https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/767495.Heartbreak_House
Heartbreak House.Not that it’s any of your business, but I came home alone tonight, as I often do, being shy and introverted and basically unfit for human intercourse (in the old sense; look it up, dimwits) so I’m not in the best frame of mind to comment on this play, which is loquacious, expansive and suffused with sex.
I’m not sure where Shaw stood on the sexuality continuum, and it doesn’t matter, because the cynical old rogue knew a thing or two about men and, more surprisingly, three or four things about women (not all of them nice).
Part of my reading goals for 2018 is to revisit Shaw. I choose Heartbreak House as my starting point, and was not disappointed.To sum it up ~~ A rich Shavian comedy about human folly and the charming and self-absorbed gentry (which would soon give way to an uncharming and self-absorbed celebrity culture), with nods to Wilde. No one quite does love triangles like Shaw. Looking forward to exploring more of the Shavian wit. "How is this going to end?""It won't end. Life goes on."
يبدأ دوري أنا ، و لكني أمهر من غيري فلا مانع عندي من أن أضحي بقليل من المال لبدأ المشروع ، لقد عرفت مدى قدرة أبيكي ، رأيت أن لديه فكرة سليمة و أنه سيفني نفسه في العمل اذا وجد الفرصة و لا حظت انه طفلا في مجال الأعمال و كنت متأكدا تماما من أن مصاريفه ستزيد عن طاقته و أنه سيتعجل النجاح و لن ينتظر حتى يكون سوقا لبضاعته ، و كنت أعلم أن أضمن طريقة لتحطيم رجلا لا يعرف كيف يدبر المال أن أعطيه شيئا من المال فشرحت فكرتي لبعض أصدقائي في حي المال ، فدبروا المبلغ لأني لا أجازف بالمال في سبيل فكرة و ان كانت فكرتي الخاصة ، و لم يكن أبوكي و اصدقائه اللذين خاطروا بأموالهم معه يزيدون في نظري عن كومة من الليمون المعتصر *****افتعل برنارد شو هنا ايضا بعض الحوارات الفلسفية التي اعجبتني ، عن السعادة و الحياة و الحب التي كانت ما بين اليسا (ايلي) و القبطان منها ، كما انه لم ينسى أن يضفي لمسته الخاصه على النص من خلال عرض افكاره تلك عن التحرر الجنسي و تبادل الأزواج هنا ايضا و من جديد ليضبط حبكاته و اسقاطاته من خلالها !
İş Bankasınca "Dört Oyun" başlığıyla yayımlanan kitabın üçüncü oyunu "Kırgınlar Evi" idi. Olayı az, karakteri ve diyalogu bol bir oyun Kırgınlar Evi. Kimi kişilerce İngiliz toplumuna dair bir "kara komedi" olarak nitelendirildiğini gördüm, ben de böyle olduğunu düşünüyorum. İyi bir ilk perde ile başlasa da ikinci perdeden itibaren biraz sıkıldığımı söyleyebilirim. Üçüncü, yani son perdenin sonunda yeniden hareketlendiğini hissedebildim. Okumaktan keyif aldığımı söylesem de sahnede izleseydim muhtemelen sıkılırdım, bunu da belirteyim; sahnelenmekten ziyade okunmak için daha uygun bir oyun bana göre.
With no one to greet her, and her bags left on the front porch of the house, Ellie finds her way into the boat-like drawing room, where she meets the indefatigable Nurse Guinness, and the inscrutable Captain Shotover, who is in the midst of his latest plan to usefully dispose of the hoard of dynamite he keeps in the garden.
Gradually, the party fills out as Hesione, Hector, Lady Utterword (nee Shotover), Randall Utterword (the melancholy brother-in-law), Mazzini Dunn (soldier of freedom and Ellie's father), and Boss Mangan (capitalist and Ellie's intended) arrive at this bizarre house.
Refreshing, really, because those pesky Prefaces and Introductions can contain spoilers which leads to the reader feeling pretty bummed out.
But then I read the Goodreads description of the book and was spoiled anyway because whoever wrote it SUCKS.Do not be discouraged by the Preface.
And then my edition included the General Introduction to Shaw and the Introduction to the play itself, and some Notes, and all of it was done well enough that the play really came together and I gained a better appreciation for it in the end.Had I actually been able to see a performance of the play, which I've never had the opportunity, I have a feeling the appreciation would have been immediate.
Even though the story deals with Britain and the British, the whole situation, the relationships between those people can be projected into other countries and cultures as well.
The main issues of the play are self-indulgence and lack of understanding of the high-class characters.
This fact has led to many conflicts throughout the history.Apart from animate characters there is an inanimate one, that is the House which is often called the Ship in the play.
The ship must be guided properly by sane people, the same stands for the society.
The ship of state is a famous metaphor put by Plato.
Free download available at Project Gutenberg.
Just consider the dialogue that ends the first act:CAPTAIN SHOTOVER: What a house!
Why do they envy us the pain with which we bring them into the world, and make strange dangers and torments for themselves to be even with us?CS: I builded a house for my daughters, and opened the doors thereof, That men might come for their choosing, and their betters spring from their love; But one of them married a numskull;H: [taking up the rhythm:] The other a liar wed;MH: And now must she lie beside him, even as she made her bed.
In Heartbreak House, a handful of well attired, and dishonest, men and striking, not to mention cunning, women, are thrown together in the nautically inspired household of an eccentric old captain.Each person's selfishness slowly comes to the forefront and what we once thought about them at the start is turned on its head. The play is an interesting perusal into the meaningless pursuits in pre-war England.
This play is partly a comedy about a crazy family and partly a deeper philosophical reflection about the lack of attention to the needs of the world around us.
The Preface, in particular, was difficult to get through, but after a time it began to get interesting.
The play covers the mundane topics of everyday life in Britain in the time, various satirical references to the young lady's marrying for wealth and wealth alone.
The play ends with shots being fired and bombs being dropped near the house, the War that nobody mentioned prior to this point in the play being brought home and perhaps knocking the unaware to their senses as to what really matters.
I saw this play performed at The Shaw Festival last season, and it was difficult enough to watch, let alone read.
This is an experimental play.
It's fascinating, and a few of the characters really stand out, but overall I found the play too confusing, a little preachy, and not as enjoyable as Shaw's other works (i.e. The Devil's Disciple and The Doctor's Dilemma).For an experimental play, I enjoyed Eugène Ionesco's The Bald Soprano a lot more.
Heartbreak House has its moments, but it's not my favorite of Shaw's plays.
I was a little disappointed.
Complete with an author's introduction almost as long as the text of the play, Shaw shows his astonishing capacity to be very angry, very humanistic, and very funny at the same time. He's like a more modern Dr. Swift. The play itself is funny at parts but verges off into the weird and depressing by the end. But then he's trying to write an allegory for English society in war time, so I suppose weird and depressing is the way to be.
This is actually a play which I read for my 20th Century British Lit. class. I wrote 2 papers using Literary Theory (Feminism and Psychoanalytic Theories) using this text, so I have read and re-read this several times. It was enjoyable and full of wacky characters and weird situations. Taking place in the early 1900's in England during a time when they were involved in WWII. Shaw was against the war and known for being part of, and a big supporter of the Fabian Society.
This is one of my favourite Shaw plays -- a motley crew of English aristos gather and chatter blithely about their lives and loves until the bombs drop. Written just after the First World War, it's rather like Ravel's La Valse put in the form of a comedy of manners. Somehow Absurdist and Chekhovian at the same time, with that wonderful, ringing Shavian wit.
story dragged - not that great
marvelous! genius!
I'm disappointed in you, GBS. Your plays are usually awesome. This was utter filth. It was like a mixture of Victorian melodrama and modern teen angst. You must have been in a very bad mood.
this is one of my favorite plays.
The Captain may be my favorite character in all of literature.
A classic Shaw play dealing with humanity on the brink of war.
quirky.Shaw at his best as a critic of Western hypocrisy.
And I’d be hard-pressed to think of any other comedies of manners that end with bombs raining down on the characters as they sit outside chatting in the garden after supper.The play’s subtitle ("a fantasia in the Russian manner on English themes") shows that Shaw modeled it after Anton Chekhov plays like 
You go into Heartbreak House thinking it may merely be a play about romantic disappointment—the conventional meaning of the word “heartbreak”—but leave it realizing that Shaw is using “heartbreak” in the sense of “the loss of all hope.”
Lady Utterword expresses her preference for a regular house several times, but her expression somehow enhances the allure of the heartbreak house.
We probably all want to experience the heartbreak house, at least once in our life time.
We probably can also call it the anarchy house where nothing is organized.
Meal, sleep arrangement, conversation all come in as if by impromptu impulse.I have been reading the preface, which is longer than the play itself and in many ways even more interesting than the clever banters in the play.
Judging from the preface, I probably have misunderstood the play.
The heartbreak house is all about the inadequacy of its inhabitants.
i read this in one sitting and loved it. i laughed out loud for some parts which is rare. this book will hold a special memory for me since i read this and got engaged the next day. thanks bernard
I have a horrible fear that my heart is broken, but that heartbreak is not like what I thought it must be.” (72) The characters focus on individual sensibilities and ignore the larger reality of their situation.
I shall call it Heartbreak House.” (151) In the end, the novelty of the war presents itself as no mere novelty, but reality.
Captain Shotover when confronted by the burglar, stands and says, “Stand by, all hands for judgment.” (158) Reality comes home to Heartbreak House.
This isn't one of my favorites of Shaw's. It's a good deal more farcical and less witty than I normally associate with Shaw. It's next to impossible to connect with any of the characters because they're such caricatures. I just don't see how this is supposed to be a clever of satire of polite British society. It's certainly a parody, but I'm not sure I'd call it clever overall. It does contain some gems of humor that seem wasted in this play though.
Al principio, ‘La casa de los corazones rotos’ empieza como una farsa.
Una serie de personajes insatisfechos, aquejados de spleen en mayor o menor grado, se encuentran en una casa de campo que pertenece a una familia en bancarrota.
¿Y he dicho que es muy divertida?
Pero el problema no se termina ahí, el problema es que encima Bernard Shaw intenta convertir la casa de campo de su obra en una metáfora de la Inglaterra de la Primera Guerra Mundial, una Inglaterra a la deriva sin personas que puedan tomar las riendas.
Y ciertamente se trata de una metáfora muy indigesta.
In the course of the day, she finds out more about them and herself.There's quite a long and philosophical preface to this place, explaining why it wasn't published during the war (WW I), and giving Shaw a chance to lay out his views about capitalism, socialism, country society, and a range of other things.
This is, according to the preface, part of his point, but  as a matter of writing, he presents it poorly.All in all, amusing and interesting.
Then read the preface, and see what you think.
