https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/248632.The_Bull_from_the_Sea
4.5 starsMary Renault’s _The Bull from the Sea_ takes up where The King Must Die left off and continues the legendary story of Theseus and his kingship of Attica.
Another thing that struck me with Renault’s Theseus saga (and this volume in particular) was the deft way in which many other legends and tales from ancient Greece were woven into the fabric of his tale without taking anything from the tale being told, but also without detracting from their own importance.
Two and a half stars, which will be shown as three.I previously expressed deep concern about Mary Renault's internalised misogyny in my reviews of Renault's Theseus novels.While finding them brilliantly researched and evocative, I also considered them to be permeated by scorn for women to the point where I was concerned that the author seemed almost to collude in Theseus various acts of brutality towards women (ie, his contemplated rape of 'Persephone' the matriarchal Queen, his his smugness about his destruction of matriarchy, his brutal threats to his aging father's war prize for snuggling up against him, etc).However, over on the discussion thread my view was changed by a reasoned and perceptive response from the reviewer Caroline Galwey.I am now willing to concede that I have previously done Mary Renault some injustice in assuming her attitude towards Theseus to be one of authorial approval.
In her sequel to The King Must Die, Mary Renault completes her fictional retelling of the legend of Theseus, Greek hero, bull leaper, mythical son of Poseidon, ruler of Athens.
In this latter part of his life he returns from Crete, puts his glorious bull leaper days behind him, and tries to settle down and be a good King.
Theseus is the King who thwarts the Earth Mother traditions of old and brings about full patriarchy in Greece.As any good feminist scholar knows, this is the age old battle of the sexes, lost by women long long ago.
The prevailing attitudes to women mean that the senior nobles and the serving women both view her with suspicion - the men because her reverence of the goddess Artemis reminds them of Medea who was the close companion of his father and whom they suspected of wanting to bring back the Mother worship complete with king-sacrifice, and the women because Theseus has elevated her to his soul companion and common law wife and no longer sleeps around, plus he favours her son above theirs.
To some extent, Theseus overcomes these in his relationship with Hippolyta but he continues to treat other women, including his wife, as people whose opinions don't matter - to his undoing and that of his elder son.
The Bull from the Sea is quite similar to The King Must Die, and is an immediate sequel to it.
I started it with less hope than I began The King Must Die, and ended up skimming most of it because I just don't like Theseus -- I don't like his self-justifications, his treatment of women, his self-absorption...
And Mary Renault's attention to detail is fantastic: I feel as if I've seen the scenes and characters she describes.
It's just the narrator she's chosen, for the most part, that makes me dislike this book.Maybe I'll enjoy Mary Renault's work better with a different cast of characters.
There was a coldness and a remoteness to the character that I can't recall encountering when reading her Alexander trilogy, for instance.
The rest of the historical aspect shall be passed over in silence by me, mostly because I can appreciate that at the time Renault was writing, much of what she was saying was still accepted as historical fact.
After that I quickly gobbled up all of Renault's works of historical fiction set in Ancient Greece.
The two novels about Theseus and the trilogy centered on Alexander the Great are undoubtedly her most famous of those eight novels.This book is the sequel to The King Must Die. It's no less remarkable in taking the bare bones of myth and giving it flesh, transporting you into the world of the past and making Theseus credible as a person who lived and breathed, and not some fantastic figure.
Mary Renault’s The Bull from the Sea, published in 1962, is a modern retelling of the legend of the Greek hero Theseus.
Renault was deeply influenced by Sir James Frazer’s The Golden Bough and by Frazer’s theories of all religions being based on an original fertility cult that involved a sacrifice of a king.
She was also influenced by the excavations of the Minoan palace of Knossos by Sir Arthur Evans – the book starts with Theseus in Crete, as part of an annual tribute of children paid by the Athenians to the Minoans.
Mary Renault writes beautifully about ancient Greece, a subject she clearly loves, and I respect that devotion.
This is the only book I have ever read which hasn't a single joke, not a single instance of sarcasm or ironic humour - even situational - it is bone dry and super serious 100% of the time.
Even in myth, when Demeter lost Persephone, the mortal Baubo broke the tension by making the goddess laugh with a rude joke.
I found the main characters to be entirely unlikable.
The only kind character is brutally killed and dies in terrible pain - take that GRR Martin.
Sequel to Renault's The King Must Die, this is her retelling of the further story of Theseus. He returns to Athens, claims his throne, lifelong friendship with Pirithoos, liaison with Hippolyta and birth of their son, Hippolytus, marriage with Phaedra, her attempted betrayal and murder. Then Theseus breaks off his narrative right before his death on the island of Skyros. Very enjoyable, but I didn't feel it was quite up to Renault's usual standard, just a continuation of the Theseus myth.
What a gorgeous heartbreaking book. Renault was a new-to-me author and now I want to read her forever.
The Bull from the Sea picks up from the exact point at which The King Must Die left off and continues the story of Theseus through his many adventures and all the way up through his death (Hint: it’s been foreshadowed continually since the first book).What makes The Bull from the Sea a greater book than Helen of Troy?
For those who make the second accusation, that Theseus treats women badly, I respond, “Of course he does!” Aside from the oddball Spartans (and their oddness developed at a much later date than this story takes place) the Greeks were very demeaning toward women.
The author follows the same formula used in her earlier book, that of following the storyline set out in the myth but with plausible real life explanations for the mythical aspects.As a book, this is weaker than the first book primarily because it lacks a strong central storyline, being little more than a collection of Theseus’ adventures and acts as king but that is not the author’s fault.
From Oedipus and the war against Thebes, to his wooing of Hippolyta the Amazon and the siege of Athens by the Amazonians, the attempted seduction of his son by his wife and the subsequent death of his son, the author follows the storyline set by the myth.Still, all in all, a good book.
I was so sorry to see Theseus' great love, Hyppolyta, die, but there is so much more to come in this novel.
Yet the tone of the book seemed to change as Theseus lives his life in grief.
This is difficult for Theseus to accept and he hopes in his deepest of hearts that his son will follow his footsteps.
Theseus became philosophical in the latter part of his life and finally accepted what will be will be.
I liked this book a good deal.
It was a very good read that went far too fast.
I felt that this book was less successful than The King Must Die, but also that it tries to tell a more complicated story.
It seems strange to me that Renault did not divide her treatment of the Theseus myth into three books rather than two.
At the end of The King Must Die, Theseus is still a teenager; The Bull from the Sea picks up exactly where that book leaves off and must carry him all the way to his death.
Still, the final third of the book is so compelling and sits in such strange contrast to all that has gone before that I had to go ahead and give it the four-star rating.
Re-reading some Mary Renault following my first visit to Athen & Crete...approx 50 years since first reading, extensively, Renault's Greek oeuvre.This confirms her status as a superb researcher, authority on & writer of Greek mythology & history in the historical novel genre, not one of my favourite genres, but in Renault's hands the stories are almost perfect.
She is a master of characterisation, setting, dialogue, social history, & this story of Theseus is no exception.
Must return to The King must Die, the prequel to this ( I remember the story well, another indication of the magic of her writing).I admit that I now find the pace of these novels a little slow, but still enthralling.
Found this copy while packing to move and picked up the story right where I'd left it thirty years ago at the end of The King Must Die. Great first half, good ending, drags in the middle as Renault force-fits all mythic events associated with Theseus into the time-frame. Loved the Centaurs and the early return of the heroes section.
Reread this retelling of the later years of the Greek hero Theseus after 35 years. It really holds up. Of course, I can relate to the poignancy of the hero's aging better now. Renault's language is beautiful, and her ancient-Greek-world-building is top-notch.
That book covered Theseus's legendary descent from the god Poseidon, his actual descent from the King of Athens, his childhood in the Peloponnesian coastal kingdom of Troezen, his father's eventual acknowledgement of paternity, Theseus's sudden transport to Crete to face the bull ring and the Minotaur, the earthquake that leveled the palace (the "Labyrinth") at Knossos, and his struggle to overthrow Minoan rule over Crete and its domination of the Greek world.
A brilliant and exceptional follow up to The King Must Die. Less concentrated and more broad than the first, The Bull From the Sea tells of his home-coming to Athens after slaying the Minotaur.
His sons, Hyppolytos born of Hyppolyta and of Akamas born of Phaedra, the Cretan princess (Minos' daughter whom, in The King Must Die, was only a young girl when she fell in love with Theseus).
Renault is a vivid writer, her style is fluid and unlike anything else I have read.
As one, like many, who is fascinated by Greek mythology, Renault as wonderfully taken me to a place I only dream of, yet it's familiar all in the same.
Like the first book in this series this was a Little Free Library find.
I read half then put aside for a while.Also like the first I read this many years ago in high school and loved it.
A bit to my surprise it also held up fairly well over the years though it moved quite a bit slower than the first especially the first half.The writing is good, could have been edited here and there.
Some background in Greek myth and history is helpful but that was commonplace in my education so long ago.
I think I made a bit of a mistake reading The King Must Die and The Bull From the Sea back to back. The Bull From the Sea suffered by comparison; Theseus's assorted nonsense started to get wearying. and as he got older his exploits got to be less excusable as the result of a hot-tempered youth. Renault's prose is as immersive as ever, but the back half of Theseus's story does not have the narrative urgency of the Labyrinth and the Minotaur.
This sequel and conclusion to the King Must Die, does that rare thing -- it matches its predecessor. An exciting conclusion to the story of Theseus. The last few chapters are a bit clipped, the last in particular for narrative reasons that can't be escaped, but that doesn't detract overall from the experience of the duology.
One of my favourite books - which is odd because, in general, I have no time for books written in the first person. Mary Renault manages to make entirely mythical characters and events plausible if not entirely likeable. I have no gift for criticism only knowing that I've enjoyed (or not . . .) a book but having very little ability to analyse the reasons why.Which is a cop out, if you like.
I really enjoyed the first book in this series, but this one seemed to rush through time and details. It felt much more like an "Odyssey" life story than the first few Renault books we had read. I would have preferred a Theseus trilogy with more depth, but still a fun series.
This is Volume 2 of Mary Renault's biographical account of the life of Theseus, the unifying king of Athens. Superb storytelling. If you enjoy sword-slinging novels set in ancient Greece, it's a must read.
Deathly boring
Beautiful
It took me a while to get into the. It probably would have helped more if I was up on mythology to follow the story line better. The authors notes helped to bring it up to par.
couldn't get past the first chapter, will maybe try again
