https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30045683-the-little-book-of-hygge
Lifecycle of an idea:1) hear about it on NPR2) identify with it.
tell friends about it.3) buy book about it.4) begin reading book.5) realise there are suddenly *a lot* of books on this topic.6) start to suspect book is just a big advertisement put out by one of those agencies that determines what will be trendy for next season.7) book seems to really want you to buy woolen socks.8) book is poorly written and repeats itself.9) see a new twee danish crap store in your big mall.10) reach peak despair.11) burn book.
the crackling fire, you are told, is very hygge.12) find peace with the ease with which the corporate world manipulates your interests and desires.13) write a goodreads review.
It annoyed me as a vegan that seemingly to get a 'hygge' moment you had to inflict pain on other creatures, there are lots of recipes in here for meat heavy dishes, you get told you may be lucky to see a pig roast in one section and them espouses the hygge of hunting and fishing - how comforting to witness the slow charring of a once happy pig!I think I would be more happy if I sat down with the TV off and read more, I love being warm in my home and eating nice food - unfortunately life has it's stresses too and my kids are hardly the quietest.
Of course hygge is a Danish phenomenon, and I loved finding out the statistics on many things (for example how many candles Danish people burn weekly!), but at times I felt like the tips on how to implement hygge elements in my life were just out of reach, based on where I live.
However, it was only a slight qualm, and there is plenty in this book for me to try and experience, with numerous recipes, ideas for social occasions, and other such things that I can try out.Overall I thought this was a great book, and as I received it as a present I would also say this would make a great gift to anyone who likes the cosier, quieter side of live and wants to implement more hygge in their lifestyle.
This "Little Book of Hygge", written by the CEO of the Happiness Research Institute in Copenhagen, sets out to explore the Danish phenomenon 'hygge': What it is and how you can achieve it.
It's always fascinating to read about your own people, but to me this petite book was even more fascinating because it explores something that I consider a constant and a necessity in my everyday life.
I couldn't find any faults with this book, and I was so impressed with how it defined 'hygge' spot-on that I've been inspired to do a video on just this phenomenon.
The Little Book of Hygge is a small collection of everything that is right in the world.
In this little book, you will discover everything about hygge.
Hygge is a reading nook by the fireplace with a good book and a comfortable blanket.
We should all learn how to incorporate hygge into our lives - there is a reason why the Danish are among the happiest people in the world.As someone with anxiety and depression, I made it my personal mission to learn more about happiness and positivity.
The Little Book of Hygge came with it, which was so perfect.I read this book in my reading nook, with cups of tea, cookies, and several blankets.
This is a beautifully designed little book which extolls the benefits of coziness/homebodyness and good friends/good food as the way to happiness.
Large social safety-net programs probably play a key role in this, but since that's not easily or quickly replicated, the author advises that happiness can be found via candles, warm drinks, fireplaces and wool socks.
Now, I like all of those things as much as the next person (probably more) but I'll just say that I'm glad I checked this one out from the library instead of buying this book in order to learn these pearls of wisdom.
This book is beautifully presented, nice cover, quality paper, modern typeface, and beautiful photography. Looks like cross between an Ikea catalogue and a Waitrose food magazine. I found the content fluffy, repetitive and patronising. I'm not danish and have not previously heard of Hygge but am aware that candles, real fires, friends and sharing food you have cooked yourself is good fun and makes you happy. I thought the book was going to let me in on some secrets of Danish happiness, I was disappointed to find it stated the obvious, but lots of people seem to really like it.
Beautifully published. Gorgeous photos, charts and drawings. The writing is funny, interesting and engaging. A really fun read! So...when are we moving to Denmark??
The whole idea of Hygge is really lovely.
Actually, I think that everybody follows it, having no idea that it has a name.
Well, who doesn’t enjoy the winter evening with a cup of cocoa or the fragnance of just baked cake?
It is quite a nice book in terms of appreciating life’s little pleasures, but it lacks actual content.
The majority of the book is filled with photographs or some really boring statistics and the author doesn’t say anything insightful.
I mean, we all have been there, done that.
Just didn’t realise it has a fancy, Danish name.
Nice graphic design, poor content.
I should begin my review of The Little Book of Hygge with a confession: I hate winter.
It never happened again, which only served to make the experience more special.Although I only lived there for three years, and that was over thirty years ago, I still remember it fondly: the street, the stores, the sleepy village atmosphere (even though it was only forty minutes from Penn Station by LIRR), all seen from my little perch on the second floor, and most of all, my hyggekrog with its comfy chair, soft light, and favorite books.
In a nutshell, the primary elements include candles and fireplaces, intimate gatherings, lots of cake and coffee, warm fabrics, books, and rustic settings.The word hygge can be used as a noun or a verb.
Variations of the word hygge include the following:hyggehjørnet- to be in the mood for hygge hyggekrog- sitting nook for a "hyggelig" timehyggesnak- cozy conversation devoid of controversy hyggestund- a moment of hygge(And my personal favorite)hyggebukser- that favorite comfortable pair of pants you'd never wear in public I adore the idea that hygge is about "atmosphere and experience" rather than "things." Denmark consistently ranks at the top of happiness indices.
The word might be translated as "coziness" or "happiness" or "taking pleasure from simple things." I picked up this book because I plan to go to Denmark later this summer.
So, hygge is primarily achieved at home, on rainy days, with soft lighting, special food, and close friends and family.
And, hot drinks are another important component of hygge.You can read this short book in a couple of hours--at least half of it is filled with simple illustrations--reminiscent of clip art.
The writing is simple, as the book explains the many facets of Danish culture that contribute to hygge.
According to statistics, the Danes are the happiest people on the planet, and according to the author, their ‘hygge’ lifestyle is the reason for this.We are taught, and shown by the vast amount of photos in the book, how the Danes live their daily lives and how they relax.
Yes the author does repeat himself a lot, going over about the same things, but this book isn’t all about hot chocolate, and roaring fires, it is much, much more.Will I take away anything from this book, and use it in my daily life?
As Wiking describes it, hygge is 'an atmosphere, an experience' - what we feel when we're with people we love in a warm and comfortable place.
Things that promote hygge are called 'hyggelig.' For instance, the following would be hyggelig: a small group of friends sitting around a fireplace in a cabin, wearing big jumpers (sweaters) and wooly socks, drinking malt wine.
The author of this book studies human happiness. In this volume, he argues that Hygge (loosely translated as comfort or homeyness) contributes to the overall happiness and satisfaction of Danes.Then he offers an account of what Hygge includes and how to incorporate it into your daily life.I liked this book for the window into Danish life that it offered and also for its interesting account of what contributes to happiness.We can all do with more Hygge. We can all do with more happiness.Recommended.SR
I think I've always practiced Hygge. This book was so very charming and uplifting
2.5 stars - It was alright, an average book. An easy read about a warm and fuzzy topic, but the book became very repetitive after the first 25%. While I enjoyed the beginning, by the end I was looking forward to moving on to my next book. -------------------------------------------Favorite Quote: While basic living standards are essential for happiness, after the baseline has been met, happiness varies more with quality of human relationships than income.First Sentence: I have the best job in the world.
I still feel like it only scratches the surface of the idea of hygge but to delve deeper would probably have meant that the book itself would be less hyggelig and one of the nicest things about this little volume is how much it embodies its subject.
This is particularly relevant for me at the moment because I'm starting a PhD this year and will be spending a lot of time sitting about reading and I'm thinking that ramping up the hygge factor will make all of that just a good deal more enjoyable.The reason I've only given this three stars is that while I learned quite a bit from the book, it felt a little bit lightweight.
Everything you need to know to about hygge and how to experience more in your life. Inspires you to look for the small, simple things that bring joy to your life.
AudiobookGreat narration Hygge the way of zen like living for the Danish.
This little book is filled with sensible easy t follow techniques to give your moments more meaning.
Light a candle, cuddle under a blanket, play board game with friends, and much more.
It's about living life in the moment, simply.
Did I learn a lot from the book, no.
I did learn a few things and maybe I'll take time to light a few more candles and have more game nights.
I was pleased to find that I do practice many of the ways to Hygge that the book talked about.
But as the book includes pictures, I wanted to read it on my iPad rather than a kindle.
I've picked it up now and then to read, but I've generally then forgotten about it until the middle of summer, when reading a book about cozyness feels wrong!
:) Seeing as it's now the Northern Hemispheres autumn, I'm making sure I get it read while it seems the perfect time of year to read a book about Hygge and snuggly blankets, flickering candles, crackling fires and warm comfy fluffy socks...The Little Book of Hygge is such a cute little book!
The second you open it’s pages, you can’t help but feel warm, safe, and appreciative of every little thing.
It’s just a nice little book to flick through, whether you’re settling down for a long read or just want to quickly reread your fave chapter.
It’s just full of so many different things – facts (not the boring type), small anecdotes, pop culture references, language comparisons, recipes, you name it.
It jumps from one thing to another, while still remaining relevant, instead just allowing you to comprehend what hygge means.I especially loved all the comparisons between different cultures.
"Hygge is about giving yourself and others a treat. It is about savoring the moment and the simple pleasures of good food and good company... it is about keeping in mind that you live right now, allowing yourself to focus on the moment and appreciate the life you lead, to focus on all that you do have, not what you don't."
Eilinis Delfi straipsnis, išleistas knygos pavidalu - toks jausmas apėmė užvertus paskutinį puslapį.
Prieš mėnesį perskaičiau straipsnelį apie Hygge reiškinį viename lietuviškame moterų žurnale, straipsnis pasirodė toks skanus, kad norėjosi daaar.
Įsigijau knygą, susirangiau po šiltais apklotais apsikaišiusi minkštom pagalvėlėm ir tikėjausi ypatingai jaukiai praleisianti penktadienio vakarą.
Protarpiais išties tai buvo labai jauki knygiūkštė ir danai tokie mieli ir pūkuoti pasirodė.
Ir paveiksliukas vienas kitas pasitaikė tikrai traukiantis akį ir keliantis hygge lygį manyje.
Visa bėda, kad man turinys labai svarbus, gali būti ir be vaizdinių priemonių - nieko tokio.
Sausas statistikos pateikimas be įdomių istorijų nevertas knygos formato, imho.
Reading this book only made me feel so warm, relaxed and comfortable.
I may try to practice Hygge one day!
The cover is so stunning, and the inside is full of so many pictures, drawings and charts inserted to every single topic and method talked about through the book.Also, it is full of recipes and pictures of food that looked so delicious which made me hungry and want to try all of them!So, it was a fun and warm read which I enjoyed.
I want to read more and more about Denmark and "Hygge" in the future.
Happiness isn't something that occurs by accident, it's created and in The Little Book of Hygge author Meik Wiking talks about the different ways in which the Danish people achieve this, from the importance of lighting to food & drink, and everything in between.
Things that stood out to me in particular included creating a hyggekrog (a place in the home where you'd love to snuggle up in a blanket with a book and a cup of tea), non-scented candles, and the importance of feeling close to nature.There are also delicious recipes included within this little tome of happiness, a month by month breakdown to show you how you can achieve hygge all throughout the year, and even a series of ideas to create hygge on the cheap – so it's achievable for anyone at any point in their life.
I do so much of this - hot beverages, voluminous scarves and cozy socks, wool, wood and vintage everything, heavy cream and chocolate, heaps of throw pillows, nooks and books.
I didn't know I was choosing hyggeligt, but I'm glad there's a word for all things cozy and comfort.My very favorite part was a tiny bit of a concept tucked in the book - the idea that "hygge-ness" cannot exist without the contrast- that the daily stress of running and rushing and being productive provokes the striving towards more enjoyable and healing hygge.
Wouldn't you love to be the CEO of a Happiness Research Institute, an independent think tank focusing on well-being, happiness, and quality of life, like Meik Wiking?
Can you think of a job that would be more fun to go to in the morning?This is a fun book that tries to explain why the Danes are among the happiest people in the world.
His answer of course is HYGGE!!"Hygge is about appreciating the simple pleasures in life and can be achieved on a shoe string budget.
Hygge is humble and slow.
In many ways, hygge might be the Danish cousin to slow and simple living."Not a bad way to start out a new year.
It was like I was reading a research paper, but one that's very accessible and filled with pictures and recipes!Hygge is a very interesting concept, and I loved learning more about it.
I feel like I've learned a lot more about Denmark by learning about hygge.
I also really liked all of the examples given, and the suggestions for the reader on how they can make a conscious effort to introduce it to their own lives.I would definitely recommend this book to anyone looking for a positive read or who wants to learn more about Denmark.
Pues el libro no es nada del otro mundo, no te enseña cosas fundamentales ni nada por el estilo, sin embargo...
me ha encantado.Más que un libro es como si leyerais un blog que os encanta y del que tenéis que leer todos los posts.Y lo que tiene dentro...
He apuntado muchas cositas, insignificantes, que me han encantado y que son muy fáciles de poner en práctica.
es de unos libros sin mucha sustancia, pero que te arrancan una sonrisa cada dos por tres.
Además es MUY coqueto.
No quiero influir a nadie, pero si tenéis la oportunidad de tenerlo en vuestras manos, ojeadlo.
