https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35889208-when-never-comes
Christine grew up as Christy-Lynn Parker—the child of an addict who spent her life taking care of the very mother who should be caring for her.
Now, Christy-Lynn has found peace, but not happiness, in her life with Stephen.
But this time, the running leads her to a place where she may finally be able to create her own life, the one thing she has never had.ReflectionThis is truly a story of resilience.
Christine has spent so much of her life trying to just survive, that she has never really lived.
And most importantly, Christine is able to learn that happiness is something she can choose.
From running away as a child to running away as an adult.Christy-Lynn had her share of bad times as she was growing up and thought when Stephen Ludlow, famed author, married her she was done with struggling and bad times.But...Stephen Ludlow wasn't exactly who he appeared to be.
She is happy again until someone from Stephen's past appears and "spills the beans" about who she really is.We follow Christy-Lynn through the good times and the bad as she recovers.WHEN NEVER COMES touches on healing, friendships, being there for someone, love, and is filled with lovely and not so lovely surprises.Another beautiful, touching book by Miss Davis.
Incredible story of a woman's tragic loss a d the se rets which ultimately change her life. This book brought out my deepest emotions. Easy to read, introspective,with a soucount of psychological thriller, it is a book easily fitting most genres. One word, genious. A must read!
I wouldn’t say that I hated this book, but it became a chore for me to get through. Just like Christy-Lynn’s critique of Wade’s manuscript, I wanted to put the book down halfway through because I just...stopped caring. It wasn’t the storyline itself so much as the fact that it was riddled with holes, particularly when it came to timelines. And it was a bit predictable overall. I managed to finish, but just barely.
I have volunteered at a Children's Home for 15 years, and know many children who have been traumatized by the actions of their parents.
Barbara Davis brings these issues to life in When Never Comes.
It is a heart-wrenching story that kept me guessing with it's unpredictable twists and turns.
Barbara Davis is masterful in developing characters we care about and root for, and others we hate.
While everything that happens to Christy-Lynn, from addict parents to a near-perfect marriage that crumbles before her eyes upon her husbands tragic death.
But Christy-Lynn finds a surprising way to overcome the lack of stability in her life.
Page-turning, gut-wrenching, but ultimately uplifting read!
I was captivated by Christy-Lynn's story, a young woman so deep in the throes of despair, so torn with guilt and regret, that she won't let herself love anyone, or let anyone love her...she doesn't feel deserving of love.
Her life is full of nevers, the doors she keeps closed to protect her heart.
The emotions in this book leap off the page...I found myself holding my breath waiting to find out what decisions Christy-Lynn would make as she slowly, carefully, fearfully cracks open those doors just a little bit.
Once again, author Barbara Davis has pulled me out of everything I need to do and planted me right in the middle of her compelling characters and story.
When Never Comes is the story of a woman trapping herself in her past, limited by all the ways she was hurt by others.
But when love prevents itself in new and unexpected ways, she has to face all the doors she's closed...all the nevers she's clung to.
This is a story of love, hope, redemption, and of rediscovering who you were meant to be and it will resonate with readers who love a tale full of heart and soul.
Why was her husband driving around with his half-naked girlfriend in the car, when he was a successful writer and could afford a hotel room.
If the main character lived on the street for two years after being brutally raped in foster care, how did she become a hot shot book editor and meet a hugely successful author?
4. Nothing is mentioned about the fabulously successful author husband, no background except for the fact that he plagiarized something in college and he got a trailer trash groupie pregnant.
Other than those huge questions, it was a good read.
When said husband is famous and the vultures are just waiting for the right moment to feed on you, armed with this tantalizing information?
Like any seasoned runaway will do, you act on that animal instinct and run as far and fast as you can.Christy-Lynn had no idea her famous author husband was a philandering douchebag.
When she is then struck by the news of an innocent child between her husband and his mistress, it brings her past rushing to the present.
Her mother, her past, and the fact that just maybe- she is open to what love, life, and forgiveness can bring her.
This is the story of Christy-Lynn, awoken in the middle of the night with the news that her husband has died in an accident.
At the morgue to identify his body, she's given the news that he was not alone in the car and a mystery woman has also died.
Christy-Lynn begins to rebuild her life and put her past behind her.
As she begins to move forward in her new life, she is haunted by her past and by this mystery woman.
This was a wonderful story of redemption, forgiveness, family, and how the events of our past do not define us.
The story takes place in the past and present as it pertains to the characters and events in the story.The author describes are characters as complex, complicated and confused.
How can the past traumatic events in a character’s life effect the present and future?
Christy-Lynn marries a prominent novelist, and settles for a marriage of what she feels is a safe place.Unfortunately, her husband Stephen is in a fatal car crash, and dies.
Christy-Lynn is shocked to find out that a mysterious woman is in the car with him.
How is Christy-Lynn going to trust anyone again?
3.5 starsI almost DNF'd this one in the very beginning - I thought it was a mystery/thriller type book.
Here she tries to begin again and reconcile her husband's death, her past with a negligent mother, foster care & as a runaway, and the knowledge that her husband the unknown woman had a child together.This book is "slow" - it is not fast-paced or a thriller.
Christy-Lynn's journey to discover herself and move on is sad and painful but heartwarming as she begins to heal and reconcile her present and her past.
Digging up the past is not always pleasant but sometimes the closure and healing are worthwhile.
This was a book about Christy-Lynn Parker (Christine Ludlow) who wakes up to the knock on the door from the local police to come identify her husband's body.
When Stephen dies, and the news crews are too much, she escapes to Sweetwater, Virginia, where she befriends the local bed and breakfast owner, Missy (love it when your name is a character in a book), and sets down roots.
She buys the local bookstore and house, and sets up what she feels is the ideal escape from life as Christine Ludlow.
Eventually, Christy-Lynn requests his help in finding who this mystery woman was in her husband's car.
This book is a must read and you don't want to miss it.When Christy-Lynn is told by the police that her husband, a famous author, has died in a car accident, she also finds out that there was a half naked woman in the car with him who also died.
With the unrelenting media scrutiny, Christy-Lynn escapes from her home and drives until she finds a small town to hide out in.
Christy-Lynn is a wonderful, multi-dimensional character who readers will quickly care about and hope for her to find happiness in her life.Thanks to the author for a copy of this book to read and review.
Quick ReadIt’s a nice book to read in one sitting or while stuck on an airplane. There’s nothing spectacular about the book but it’s by no means a bad read. It was an enjoyable enough experience.
Barbara Davis is fast becoming one of my favorite authors.
I got this from Kindle First and I was thrilled.
It's been on my wishlist since I found out it was coming out.
I was so excited that I didn't have to wait a month until it comes out in the stores.
Christy-Lynn is a pretty damaged character.
She's had a rough life and can't catch a break.
I wish I hadn't whipped through it so quickly because now I have no idea when her next one is coming out and it will kill me to wait for it.
As far as the story, it was really good in the beginning but then it became to inconsistent.I tend to disagree with the majority when it come down to overall community rating.
Nevertheless, I do not regret that I read it, it was a fascinating on some parts but I did not like how it felt rushed at the end.
However, I do plan on reading more books by Davis so that is a good thing.
Lastly, I will not recommend the book due to the inconsistency but it was a decent read.
An important story about what makes a family and how you can find the people that will become more like family to you than your own flesh and blood, in the unlikeliest of places. This was my first book by Barbara Davis and I am eager to read more from her backlist! I expected one thing from this story, more mystery, less heart - and I have to say, I’m incredibly pleased with what I got! I received an advance copy. All opinions are my own.
I picked this as a first read from my amazon choices!This is a sweet story from not so sweet circumstances!Liked it more than I thought I would
Christy-Lynn Parker wakes up the a knock on the door: her husband has been found dead in the river.
After being bombarded by paparazzi because her husband was a best-selling author, she moves away to a small town in Virginia to “escape from reality” and start over.
To whoever reads this review, get a copy and once you start, you won’t be able to stop till you read the very last sentence.
Throughout the entire story, I was rooting for Christy-Lynn and hoped she would find the happiness she so desperately wanted to find.
I felt every thought, feeling, emotion as if I were Christy-Lynn.
At some point I really got annoyed with the main character and her self pity though.
But she also has so much money she can just buy a house and a business on a whim and still have so much left that she doesn't know what to do with it.
And said new business is immediately successful, allowing her free time to go off at any time to explore her past or run away from her present.
I understand that the point of the book is that she had to overcome her childhood traumas and let down her defenses.
When Never Comes was my Kindle First Selection and I am so glad I picked it!Barbara Davis wrote such a beautiful, heart-warming novel that sent my emotions soaring.
It was the first book I have ever read by her and I definitely don’t plan on it being my last.Christine (Christy-Lynn) is dealing with the loss of her husband and boy does that open the door to all kinds of emotional turmoil.
This book deals with the pain of loss, the fear of new relationships, the hardship of starting over, and the struggles of growing up parentless/in foster care.
I seriously feel like I was right beside Christy-Lynn in this book...
Topic and content were good. The process was a little tedious but still a good read.
This was my Kindle First choice for the month it was released, though it's sat in my downloaded file for a couple of months.
I enjoyed it, though it's your typical chicklit story.
I take a break with one of these in-between my usual diet of murderation for some light relief at times.I can't say this was particularly a stand-out read or really anything I've not read before but I enjoyed it nonetheless.
The characters are ones you warm to, mostly, though I wanted to shake Christy at times !!
While there are complicated situations in the main plot, the subplot, is a bit ominous.
It involves the protagonist dealing with adult situations when she is a teen.
The protagonist is uncertain how to conduct her life and we see her in a series of mishaps, assuming she's trying to do the right thing in hopes that her life will improve, but this backfires.
It takes a few friends to help her through some of the most painful times in her life, to enable her to move on with her life.
Although I'm nearly a grandmother now, I was a teenage runaway. So when I read the description in the "First Reads Books" email that I received from Amazon, it piqued my interest, and I selected it. Not disappointed in the least, the story in the pages of this captivating book lives up to the well over a thousand positive reviews it's received. I highly recommend this engaging read!
I really enjoyedWhen Never Comes.For me this storywas like slipping intoa well worn, comfortablepair of old house slippers.Listened with TTS.Cleanishhh with someMild Foul Language.
Great read, kept me interested the entire book! Read it in 5 days, which is rare for me. My insomnia helped , but I finished it between 3-5 am- passing on the gym to find out what happens.
Great story
I don't have issues with the story, but I DO have issues with safety. Riding in a canoe without a life jacket is like having sex without a condom. Oh...wait. That happened too. If Ms. Davis wants to know how to write about safe sex, she should read Robyn Carr's Virgin River books.
