https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7493.Founding_Brothers
This book was the first book that ever made me cry because it was too hard to read pleasurably.
I felt double bad about this book because I had bought it for my dad earlier in the year as a birthday gift, and when it was on the required reading list of my American History course I felt special because it was like, ---ooooh book club with dad!---, then I felt like a loser because this tiny book, that won a freaking National Book Award for nonfiction in 1997, was the bane of my existence, I was felled by this verbose dribble.
In his preface, Ellis points out that despite these white dudes being lionized and mythologized by so many for so long, each generation sees the launch of the nation a bit differently, with different implications for contemporary controversies according to who is looking: A golden haze surrounds this period for many Americans, but as a contaminated radioactive cloud for those unhappy with what we have become and how we got here.The draw of this book for me is in the opportunity to understand personalities of these players on history’s stage a bit better and to appreciate how their human strengths and flaws came into play in shaping the country’s course.
"And so while Hamilton and his followers could claim that the compromise permitted the core features of his financial plan to win approval, which in turn meant the institutionalization of fiscal reforms with centralizing implications that would prove very difficult to dislodge, the permanent residence of the capital on the Potomac institutionalized political values designed to carry the nation in a fundamentally different direction."This is a sentence found on page 80 of Joseph J.
Anyway, this phrase pretty much boils down to, "...the compromise satisfied the main parts of Hamilton's financial plan."Second phrase:"...which in turn meant the institutionalization of fiscal reforms with centralizing implications that would prove very difficult to dislodge..."-Okay.
While reading the first part of this book, I wished Aaron Burr had shot me.
The center could not hold because it did not exist.The old warhorse Washington had offered the semblance of a center; but in his second term as president, Treasury Secretary Hamilton’s fiscal plans and the brokering of a British-skewed neutrality in the French Revolutionary Wars pushed Washington’s fellow Virginians Madison and Jefferson into the opposition.
Washington said of the war: “a century in the ordinary intercourse, would not have accomplished what seven years association in arms did.” Washington’s remark echoes in the decision of President Taylor, another Virginian general, to admit California as a free state in 1850, an act seen as a class betrayal by other Southern slaveholders.
I picked this up in high school, trying to impress myself with how learned I could be.
I didn't think I was going to read more than a bit of it.
Which for a book about revolutionary war history is pretty unusual for me.
This book deserves all the awards it got.
It's impressively researched, fascinating, shows sides to these men that I never would have learned about otherwise.
It read like a novel to me.
If you have any interest at all in the time period or history in general, read it!
The Federalists led by northerners Hamilton and Adams were for a strong unified America that would take its place in the world; the Republicans led by Virginians Jefferson and Madison represented southerners who wanted minimal government that would not interfere with the states.
That compromise could be reached, that political vitriol could be overcome, and that a document as strong, flexible and enduring as the Constitution could be crafted was a great and not inevitable accomplishment.Ellis takes us into the minds of the founders to show us how the interplay of ideas and personalities actually worked, how history shaped the men and how in turn the men shaped history.
People mentioned, specifically:* George Washington,* Alexander Hamilton,* Aaron Burr,* Thomas Jefferson,* James Madison,* Benjamin Franklin,* John Adams, and* Abigail Adams, his wife.This book is more than an "autobiography" of the foundation of the country.
Think about it, they put their names to a document that went right into the face of King George III, and that meant certain death had they lost the war with the British Empire.I came away with the following insight after finishing the book:* Alexander Hamilton and Aaron Burr both got what was coming to them.* Thomas Jefferson, James Madison, and James Munroe were vindictive curs.
Among his topics: the Burr-Hamilton duel, Washington's farewell address, the infamous "dinner" at Jefferson's house, Benjamin Franklin's poignant, end-of-life attempt to end the slave trade, John Adams' turbulent presidency (undermined at every turn by Madison and Jefferson), and the final reconciliation between Adams and Jefferson through correspondence.
He attempted to cajole the Constitutional Congress into ending the slave trade, if not slavery altogether, through a satirical pamphlet he published just three weeks before he died.
They threatened to secede from the union unless the northern states agreed to drop the issue for at least 20 years.
The men who created the United States have always amazed me.
Perhaps this is why I have a tendency to collect books about these men, hoping I can always learn more about them.The first founding declared American independence; the second, American nationhood.The United States should have faltered in the 1790s, it's really amazing that it didn't.
Yet it survived because it had leaders.
Franklin was the calm while Hamilton was the fire.
The book ends with the last years of Adams and Jefferson, who both died on the same day (4 July, 1826): the nation's birthday fifty years on.
No single individual is the focus of the book, which makes the stories feel more complete as each one comes to its end.At the same time, however, the approach or the writing did not bring the Founding Fathers any closer to being human in spite of the fact that the book’s title could be taken to imply the opposite.
Before reading Founding Brothers I was hoping for a more ‘brotherly’ look at the characters, meaning depictions that were closer to being human.
It was tempting, after reading Founding Brothers, to conclude that our present-day political conflicts will also pass into history, but the stories brought to light fundamental differences between today's political impasses and those faced at the birth of the nation.
Without going into the details (because that would spoil your enjoyment of the book), the chapter describes Hamilton's verbal and later literal physical duel with Burr which draws a sort of telling parallel to the ideas and principles that made up each of the actors in this drama.The next chapter talks about a fateful dinner at Thomas Jefferson's house several years earlier where a major compromise was struck between the advocates of the federal government assuming the states' accumulated debt versus those that wanted the capital of the newly United States to be located on the Potomac River near George Washington's property at Mount Vernon.
As a lover of all things historical and a casual reader of history books, I thought that Founding Brothers: The Revolutionary Generation was very informative and educational.
I learned many things about America's founding fathers and the revolutionary period of history that I didn't previously know.
The book is also something of a character sketch of each of these key players in America's history.The thing I enjoyed most about Founding Brothers: The Revolutionary Generation, were all the little facts and anecdotes I was able to glean from the text.
Founding Brothers is a deep look at the men who gave the United States its foundation. This book is a Pulitzer Prize winner, but I had trouble enjoying the stories it told. It is such a indepth look at this era that I felt I could only handle small chunks at a time. This would be a great read for someone who has a wealth of prior knowledge about this time in history and wants a closer look at the characters who played a role in our government.
Using six pivotal moments that helped forge the young American Republic as the basis for this book, author Joseph Ellis, explores how some of the most influential men of the Revolutionary Era guided the 13 fledgling states through the most fraughtful time in the history of the United States.
I highly recommend this book to anyone who wants to know more about the development of the United States post-Revolution.
I knew I was gonna hate the reviews for "Founding Brothers" the moment I noticed its composite rating is, depressingly, less than four stars......Wait.
Am I allowed to make fun of other reviewers on Goodreads?
Will that get me banned?I'll just say this: the word for a "nonsensical work" is "drivel," not "dribble." And "Founding Brothers" is not drivel.
It's a beautifully written, smartly argued, and ACCESSIBLY succinct masterpiece (accessibly in caps because some Goodreaders seem to be under the impression that Ellis writes "purple prose" that's too full of "big words"...
Ellis does an excellent job of taking this group of extraordinary men and providing everyday insight into their lives, successes, and squabbles and helps to decode how their everyday lives, actions, and flaws, shaped the early part of American history including the first three presidencies.
Overall this is an excellent read, yet please be warned, Ellis' ability to tell the story through the eyes of the men living it, creates albeit interesting and insightful, yet sometimes slow or dense reading of the events from the horses mouth.
Brilliantly vivid and unbelieveably researched little snippets of American history that will make it come alive for you in ways you never thought possible.You are treated to the Hamilton/ Burr duel, the dinner that changed the American landscape, Washington's grand and forward-thinking farewell address, the cantankerous and deeply sympathetic friendship/rivalry between John Adams and Thomas Jefferson, so on and so forth.epically small and rich in little bites.
read for school.
And "short-lived Roman Repulic of Cicero?" If he means the total length of the Roman Republic, over 400 years isn't exactly short-lived.
If he means the specific period of Rome when Cicero was alive, he's chosing a strange period to focus on; by that time the Republic was already a broken machine and certainly not an ideal republican form of govrnment.
Hopefully, Ellis will stick with his area of expertise and avoid (inaccurate) sweeping generalizations like the above.OK, well after his purple prose settled down a bit, he did give a good workmanlike analysis of the Burr-Hamilton duel.
Ellis tries to convince us that these great men were "posing" for history; that they knew the historic significance of everything they did, and wanted to set a standard for generations to follow.I respectfully disagree, and prefer David McCullough's approach to history.
I wish Joseph Ellis represented this as an essential trait in the Art of Manliness, rather than saying they were constantly looking into the generations ahead, wanting to be considered as giants.
Their magnitude came from efforts to improve their person; not from worrying about the future generations.
It's crazy to think that I could rate this book so highly (4 1/2 stars) but take so dang long to finish it. It took me over a year to read it. Some books are like that for me. I just can't read them very fast. This book was rich in insights into our history that I found truly fascinating.
not going to rate this because I'm not sure what to give it--and it was required readingin a nutshell, I would have enjoyed this more if I didn't have to take notes on it
Ellis is particularly good at adding interesting shades of character that break the staid portrait we often have of these 'Founding Fathers'.However, the final two chapters concerning the famous and often contentious relationship between John Adams and Thomas Jefferson left me frustrated and ultimately disappointed.
Ellis seems to have a bone to pick with the Jefferson legacy, and often falls into a very black and white presentation of these figures.
If Ellis followed Adams' post-modern sense of history, Jefferson would not be relegated to the caricature presented here.
Ellis organizes the book by a series of major political moments of the time -- the Hamilton-Burr duel of 1804, the Compromise of 1790, the debates over Jay's Treaty and the abolition of the slave trade, George Washington's resignation, the unprecedented Election of 1800, and the complicated relationship between Adams and Jefferson that characterized much of our early history -- thoroughly exploring the political and interpersonal implications of each.
What a disappointment.
Founding Brothers reads like an apologetic for long-time Founding Father of disrepute, John Adams, whose aggrandizement here expectedly reduces Thomas Jefferson to the dual role of timely revolutionary opportunist and self-deluding contradictorian, which may not be a word.
Given this, Adams' non-maneuver of allowing the Treaty of Tripoli to be unanimously ratified by the Senate in 1797 is a conspicuous no-show.
Rather, much effort is given to impute Jefferson for the expanding rift between Monticello and Quincy using examples collectively pettier than the Adams-approved Alien and Sedition Acts which received a page, possibly two, of underwhelming condemnation.
Founding Brothers: The Revolutionary Generation by Joseph Ellis represents a masterful, insightful account of 6 pivotal moments or episodes in early American History.
Ellis declares that Jefferson seemed to think that once unmoored from the British the American ship would sail freely into a proverbial sunset, while Adams thought the new nation required a "fully empowered federal government on the Federalist model." Almost wonderfully, Founding Brothers ends on a most upbeat note with the reconciliation of these two giants of the revolutionary generation.
I’m a reasonably well-trained amateur historian, whose senior thesis was on the Constitutional Convention, particularly regarding the way that the characters of the men involved shaped the results. This book should be right up my ally. But it is BORING. I can’t put my finger on precisely what tricks the author plays to make the result so stultifying, but they work. I kept at it off-and-on for a full month, but could never make myself read more than a couple of pages at a time.
Joseph Ellis has done much work on the period of the American Revolution and it shows in this examination of the motives and personalities that forged the government of the United States.In Founding Brothers, he takes us into the heads of Washington, Hamilton, Jefferson, Adams and Madison in this captivating short read, a collection of essays taking off from events of the time including a duel, a dinner, a departure from office and a correspondence.Jefferson and Adams are of particular interest because of their powerful intellectual influence on the young nation, and their contrasting personalities; Jefferson the idealist and romantic with visions in his head, the master of written persuasion and charm, the champion of the rights of the states, Adams with his impulsive and erratic emotional behavior exploding with powerful arguments and a clear understanding of the need for a powerful unifying central government to preserve the infant nation.And there was Washington - the man who represented the country and shunned partisanship, believing (with Adams) that there could be disinterested leadership above the political battles of the time.
