https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/85398.The_Economy_of_Cities
Forty-four years later (and just after completing a two-year masters program in urban planning), I would say that it made my brain explode (in spite of how un-academic that sounds).Jacobs is best known for her 1961 book, The Death and Life of Great American Cities, which sharply critiques the planning practice at the time.
In the face of urban renewal in general and Robert Moses in particular, Jacobs described in great detail a new way to view cities.
As a result, nearly everyone with an urban planning degree (or just an obsessive love of cities) has read it.
Jacobs continues developing her unique views on human nature and society, exploring concepts like spontaneous order, the centrality of trade (be it ideas, goods, ect.) to human life, and how our natural habitat - the city - works.
As in "The Death and Life of the Great American Cities," she takes what may seem like a dry subject (in this case, urban economics) and makes it downright engrossing.
With insights on subjects ranging from class conflict to early urban development to social welfare policy, anyone interested in human society would be remiss to pass up "The Economy of Cities."
She calls the term "import replacement." Jacobs says an early city serves as a repository for goods and processes, and the first step is for workers to start figuring out the goods and processes and learn to produce them or find purposes for them.
In economics and business, this is the term known as value addition.Jacobs cites Japan as an example of import replacement, saying the country became an industrial powerhouse starting from the small base of bicycle production.
In this book, Jane Jacobs brings her creative mind and sharp wit to bear on the question of how cities grow economically.
Early in the book, Jacobs offers an explanation of how the first cities came to initiate economic growth.
It reads like a modern version of social contract theory: philosophically credible, but not really true in an historical sense.Jacobs' writing is always stimulating, and she offered key insights into social order decades before they became widely appreciated.
In The Economy of Cities, Jacobs correctly predicts the rise of services, and also nails the function of the Long Tail as a source of economic growth.
Jacobs begins this book countering the claims of accepted anthropology/archeology theory that cities are built on a rural economic base.
What all of these examples have in common is how new work begins, and Jacobs' claim is that new work thrives in city economies.
Instead of encouraging short term inefficiency (trial and error through loans to small business) to achieve long term prosperity, the government has instead practiced protectionism of big industries (steel, auto) through subsidies, therefore stifling innovation and stagnating the economy (if proof is needed look at the current economic mess that is Michigan).
To the first question, Jane Jacobs argues that cities formed directly out of hunting and gathering societies, and then added agriculture to their economic activities.
Along the same lines, she favors measures that encourage the development of small business in ghettos and disadvantaged countries, and is generally against welfare programs that breed economic dependence.
One argument for the importance of this book: many of the ideas presented here have become widely accepted and implemented in urban development efforts in the U.S.— although sometimes not with the energy and vigor that Jacobs would have liked.
The first and most important is Jane Jacobs and her book The Economy of Cities, which I think everyone who works in business has to read.
What the farm and agricultural land was for our first great American economy, what the industrial company was to the great Industrial age, what the Great American corporation was to our economy, the city is now the social and economic organizing unit of our time.
If you want to understand how to be successful as a business, you have to understand not only your company, but your city that you live in."
illuminating at points and clearly written but also kind of unimaginative and conservative. plus as a city person I feel dirty for liking a book that is 80% "sorry guys but the country as we know it is an economic and cultural backwater that exists to support the real centre of human life, the city, and I can prove it"; she makes a convincing case, but I also feel like it panders to my biases and I should go read something about the decadence of the cities for a real intellectual challenge.
Mam rada knihy, z ktorych sa nieco dozviem, nutia ma premyslat a su putavo napisane. A tato kniha je presne taka. Na druhu stranu vsak vznikala v 60. rokoch 20. storocia a doba sa odvtedy kruto zmenila. Vdaka tomu sa niektore prezentovane myslienky a vizie stavaju usmevnymi a pohlad na veci vtedy a dnes prilis nekoresponduje. Skoda, mozno by jej momohlo, keby presla updatom. Pretoze Sovietsky zvaz (a ine) uz vdaka bohu nemame :)
Jane Jacobs is a badass.
The innovations add new work to old work, and make the economy of cities increase.A city is not an isolated entity, it is connected to other cities, even in pre-agriculture time.
These two types of connections can bring two multiplier effects to trigger urban economy growth:1.
Export-Generating multiplier:New products and services generated by innovations can increase exports, in exchange for more imports, which enhance internal productions and consumptions to generate even more products and services.
More innovations can increase exports and trigger the first multiplier again.These two multiplier working together, can keep the explosive growth of urban economy.Innovations involve nET (lots of errors and trials), which require lots of available capital to support them.
Inefficiencies means that there is trial and error going on to produce new work.Separate efficiency of operations and efficiency of developmental work(DW).
This does not mean DW is inefficient but because DW is a trial and error task.
To starve off stagnation, a city needs to put work in long term growth and developmental work.
But it is not a solution for povertyDriving income from waste produced.
(e.g. the recycling of aluminum)- waste held in water, cannot collect?
keep waste out of the water, duh.
We hold waste in the water because it is currently the most economical method.- human excrement --> flushing is primitive.
I have know of her work since studying architecture in college, particularly The Death and Life of Great American Cities, but never sat down to read anything.
Jacobs examines, through historical accounts, present-day observations, and surmised theory, how cities begin, grow in population, and expand economically.
It was not only an enlightening account of the interconnectedness of cities and economies, offering the reader an understanding of how we have arrived at a time of a struggling Detroit and flourishing NYC, but an interesting and valuable exercise in systems thinking, particularly as it applies to our modern urban-economic landscape.
Jacobs makes a convincing case for the urban ecosystems that incubate intensive economic growth.
She rightly moves the economic discussion from extensive growth (e.g., divisions of labor in pin making from Adam Smith) to intensive growth (the development of this new product called a "pin" from the existing industry of making the spines in wool carders).
Perhaps the book's major fault is that it lacks insightful policy prescriptions like those found in "The Death and Life of Great American Cities." A number of prescriptions might have included: Tax codes that increase the costs of large stagnant companies purchasing small productive companies, employment law that makes it difficult for employers to sue their former employees for starting competing businesses, universal health care to reduce the risks of starting small companies, urban business incubator spaces, etc.

This isn't as well known as her classic The Death and Life of Great American Cities, but perhaps it should be.
I have always been curious if further scholarship since its writing in the late '60s proved her hypothesis that agriculture came after settlements.
She makes a convincing argument, based on archaeology of the time, that at trading posts/meeting places de facto seed trials might occur as well as the domestication of animals.
Another interesting idea covered in the book is the role of import replacement in the economic growth of cities.
She describes how this process of innovation and urban self-sufficiency occurs in urban regions with great clarity and readability.
A little out of my areas of interest, this book turns the argument that cities arise out of rural areas on it's head.
The author's argument is that the city needs must come first and the rural agricultural fringe arises from and benefits from the needs and production of the city.
The author also gets into what makes a city vibrant and growing.
It is interesting reading and still relevant despite that the book was written in 1969.Interesting and worthwhile reading if you are into city planning, economic theory or even just an understanding of what makes a city go.
My first Jane Jacobs book, and what a book. It has reframed the way I think about cities, about rural regions, about poverty, and about economic development. I'll be pondering this and likely re-reading it.The style and format of this book reminded me very much of Eric Hoffer's  The True Believer: Thoughts on the Nature of Mass Movements .
Jane Jacob’s argument was that cities, which in the early days were just small trading and administrative posts, generated agriculture, not vice versa. Cities are where the ideas all come from, where all the wealth comes from. They are also much more environmentally friendly because you use much less energy if you live in the city than if you live out in the countryside. Read the full interview here: http://thebrowser.com/books/interview...
Excellent Writer. I should have read this long ago. Reminded me of A Pattern Language by Christopher Alexander, but with patterns observed, not patterns imposed.
A good read, with an interesting and persuasive argument, but tended to get too bogged down in case studies showing the same thing over and over again in a different way. The thesis was defended well enough half-way in and the rest of the book was just more of the same I felt.Good arguments, not excellently written.
After reading her best known book, The Death and Life of Great American Cities, I really looked forward to reading what insights she had about municipal government.It is difficult to get into and it's obvious that she isn't an economist. At this time, I will respectfully put this back on the shelf and I'll attempt again in the near future.
I learned a lot about economics and how important cities are to a healthy economy. The book was published in 1984, but the ideas are still relevent now. I would highly recommend this book for anyone interested in economics/urban studies.
This book gets much less ink spilled over it than DEATH AND LIFE (which is, of course, great), but I found ECONOMY to be simply jaw dropping. The book just can't be beat. If you care about cities, you need to read this slender little volume. It's full of stunning facts, stories and insights.
i wasn't wowed by this. i'm not an economist however and have very little understanding of these things. supposedly revolutionary, but ultimately just a bunch of common sense to me. if you have to choose, read "death and life of great american cities" instead.
More economics lessons from Jane Jacobs. Talks a lot about multiplier effects and specialization and the way cities generate new industries, and then sub-industries to support those industries, and so on and so forth.
As always, Jacobs is both insightful and prescient. This rated 4 stars and not 5, because some of her statements (in 1968) were speculative and have not been borne out by history. Nonetheless, she is an indispensable voice at the table if one wants to understand how cities grow and thrive.
Interesting look at the day to day of how cities create wealth among the population. I don't think that most of this was common sense, sometimes the very direct understanding is overlooked, this brought a lot of good things to light.
excellent analysis of what makes cities tick, proposes pre-agricultural cities, where animal and seed domestication developed and was outsourced to the rural areas...
I had to read this book for an urban studies class in college, and just picked it up recently for a specific reason. I liked it more 41 years ago! Very dense.
