https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/121645.Death_Comes_as_the_End
Choose Your Own Adventure!You are Imhotep, ka-priest of Ancient Egypt, ruler over a family of nitwits and schemers and busybodies, with drama enough to drive you insane.
the kind of peace that is found in the arms of a gorgeous concubine.
But sadly, the concubine turns out to be as big a drama queen as everyone else in your life and very bad things begin to happen.
Bad things begin to happen to everyone!
If this wasn’t bloodthirsty Ancient Egypt, the sheer body count that you have to deal with during this drawn-out massacre would definitely raise an eyebrow.
I can't believe I am saying this, but I KNEW IT.
Death Comes as the End is a standalone Agatha Christie mystery/drama set in ancient Egypt. Although a murder mystery, there is a ton of family drama and entertaining relationship dynamics to follow. I highlighted many quotes from Ms. Christie's fabulous writing, but as a mystery, this is far from a favorite for me. However, I enjoyed it overall and would recommend it to any Agatha Christie fan.My favorite quote:"Not so easy to kill an old woman. Old women knew the value of life— and knew most of the tricks too."
Αν και το είχα ξαναδιαβάσει πριν πολλά χρόνια, πραγματικά δεν θυμόμουν τίποτα.
Ακολουθεί το γνωστό μοτίβο των βιβλίων της Christie, στο οποίο ο πρωτοπρόσωπος αφηγητής βιώνει και διηγείται τα γεγονότα ενώ στα παρασκήνια ο πανέξυπνος παρατηρητής αργά η γρήγορα ανακαλύπτει τον δράστη.
Το πρωτότυπο του βιβλίου είναι το ότι εξελίσσεται στην αρχαία Αίγυπτο και επίσης ότι ο Πουαρό της ιστορίας, είναι μια παμπόνηρη και απίστευτα καυστική μπαμπόγρια (οι ατάκες της δεν παίζονται).
Η ιστορία μου άρεσε πολύ, τα μέλη της οικογένειας ξεκληρίζονται ένα ένα από ένα κακιασμένο και εκδικητικό πνεύμα (έτσι νομίζουν τουλάχιστον...).
Η απόδοση της εποχής ήταν πολύ επιτυχημένη, το ίδιο και οι χαρακτήρες.
Μου άρεσε πολύ.
What a story!!
What a story indeed!!!I admit, I have read very few of Christie stories, and only two of them weren't translated including this one.
Here and now I am mesmerized by her fabulous storytelling.
So organized well masked plot and witty characters!
There were motive for many and killings took place, but why you may never be sure until the end.
So, there is hint if you can observe well enough, but I admit, it could have gone either way.All in all, my respect for the queen of mystery has increased greatly after reading.
No doubt its one of her finest stories.
Do read it everyone.

عشت في جو الرواية ,,, لدرجة أنني تخيلت نفسي في مصر قبل أربعة آلاف عام...
حيث الموت يعطي المعنى للحياة.في الرواية تعود البطلة إلى بيت أبيها على ضفاف النيل بعد وفاة زوجها، ولكن ...
تحت السطح الهادئ لتلك العائلة الأسرية الموسرة يكمن الجشع وتمتلئ النفوس بالطمع والكراهية.ومع وصول جارية الأب الجديدة المتكبرة، تتفجر مشاعر الأسرة حقداً، ويبدأ القتل.ما الذي سيأتي في النهاية؟الرواية رائعة ,,, فعلاً قرأتها في الـ 2010 مع روايتين لأجاثا كريستي لا اذكر عنوانهما ..
ولكني بعد ذلك قررت ان لا أقرأ لها أبداً لأنها تتبع نفس الأسلوب بكل رواياتها ..
لا انكر انها ممتعة ومدهشة ولكنها لا تضيف زاداً تثقيفياً للقارئ
But, all of this was just a shallow picture, and Agatha succeded to prove how, deep down people often carry very different emotions than the ones they 'show to the world'.While I was coming to the end of this book, I could perfectly hear Poirot's voice saying: 'No doubt, you will evolve the most preposterous theories', and originally, I thought that murderer could be (among others, because, honestly I suspected almost everyone, well not Imhotep and servants) - Renisenb.
Yes, the world is full of people like Yahmose, sadly.This book also tells a very romantic story between the Renisenb and Kameni and how beautiful is to 'choose something wonderful rather than something real'.
Beautifully written. One of Agatha's very best standalones, and I would have given it five stars if it weren't for the fact that I guessed the murderer about halfway through. Still, that's probably my fault. The novel is elegant, perfectly structured, full of clues and misdirection, with a great cast of characters and possibly the most vile of all Agatha's horrid characters. A very satisfying read.
This is a murder mystery set in ancient Egypt and you could learn a lot about the social mores and family structure of the times just by reading this book.
(Christie was an expert in this area, along with knowing her poisons.)The prominent members of an Egyptian family are starting to drop like flies, and you know how much salt brine, embalming oils and linen wrappings cost!
It's a fascinating read, or listen, though my credulity was strained when other family members are done in - falling off a cliff, poisoned, drowned - one after another - and yet life just goes on.
We all know Agatha Christie wrote a ton of mystery novels, but this, I believe, is her best work. Amazingly well-drawn characters, INCREDIBLY vivid setting (Ancient Egypt!), complex plot that will leave you guessing until the last page. (And yes, I do mean the very last page.) Highly recommended for any Christie lover.
Είχα αυτή την κατηγορία   B.R.A.CE. 2017 ένα βιβλίο που διαδραματίζεται στη μέση ανατολή    και προβληματιζόμουν φυσικά γιατί δεν μου ερχόταν κάτι στο μυαλό. Μετά λόγω αγοράς βιβλιοθήκης :) κάθε βιβλίο που έχω πέρασε από τα χέρια μου και βρήκα το συγκεκριμένο που το είχα διαβάσει αν θυμάμαι καλά καμιά 10αριά χρόνια πριν και η αλήθεια είναι δεν θυμόμουν τίποτα παραπάνω εκτός του ότι εξελισσόταν στην αρχαία Αίγυπτο. Σκέφτηκα λοιπόν "Ευκαιρία είναι να το ξαναδιαβάσω και να δω και πως θα αλλάξει (αν
Μετά λόγω αγοράς βιβλιοθήκης :) κάθε βιβλίο που έχω πέρασε από τα χέρια μου και βρήκα το συγκεκριμένο που το είχα διαβάσει αν θυμάμαι καλά καμιά 10αριά χρόνια πριν και η αλήθεια είναι δεν θυμόμουν τίποτα παραπάνω εκτός του ότι εξελισσόταν στην αρχαία Αίγυπτο.
(ίσως δεν ασχολήθηκα πολύ; δεν ξέρω).Η υπόθεση απλή με κάποιο ενδιαφέρον, κάποια στιγμή μου ήταν πολύ έντονο το συναίσθημα ότι παρακολουθώ μια οικογένεια Άγγλων που έτυχε να βρεθεί στην Αίγυπτο και όχι original Αιγύπτιους (αν με καταλαβαίνετε).Αλλά θα σας πω το κύριο παράπονο μου: η υπόθεση λύθηκε και ο δολοφόνος βρέθηκε λόγω συγκυριών.
Ketika mencapai sepertiga bagian buku, saya tahu saya akan menyukai buku ini.
Sebelum membaca, saya sedikit kurang yakin apakah bukunya menarik mengingat latar waktunya adalah 4000 tahun silam, di Mesir lagi!
Ini salah satu buku terbaik Agatha Christie yang saya baca.Yang menarik dari buku ini adalah plotnya yang rapi, bertebaran motif dan kebencian di mana-mana, tetapi pembaca tidak pernah yakin siapa pembunuhnya hingga cerita berakhir.
Yang menarik selanjutnya dari buku ini, pembaca akan disuguhi cerita dengan latar Mesir kuno.
Latar cerita dalam buku ini sangat kuat dan menjadi daya tarik tersendiri sehingga pembaca (saya sih) enggan melepaskan buku dari tangan.Yang kurang menarik dari buku ini..
Aunque esta vez sí que he adivinado al asesino (pasatiempo preferido cuando leo a esta genio del misterio), me ha parecido un libro totalmente perfecto, con aparte de la trama de misterio principal, muchas enseñanzas valiosas. Además, la ambientación es totalmente genial. Agatha se mete dentro del antiguo egipto, mostrando un total conocimiento tanto de su religión como de las costumbres cotidianas. Adoro la cultura egipcia y ha sido un placer leer una ambientación tan trabajada. Muy recomendado.
This book is excellent! It takes place in Ancient Egypt, and it is a murder mystery...of course. I love it! Christie makes sure that anyone could have done it...and you suspect everyone at different times. I adore how she develops her characters. Her main character, a woman named Renisenb, I found childish, ditzy, and even idiotic at times. Also, the book takes place during a time when women are not given much respect. The ending definitely surprised me! I would highly recommend this book.
Agatha Christie's Death Comes as the End is a good old-fashioned whodunnit with many layers of characterization and psychological intrigue.
Although the story is technically about the murder of a concubine, it's actually more about the family drama among and the psychological landscape of the central family's members.
I am very keen on ancient Egyptian history, and Christie, while definitely being inventive to support her fiction, did some good research for this story.
I would take off a half-star, perhaps.)If you like mysteries or historical fiction or psychological/family drama, you should give this a try.
Is there anything Agatha Christie couldn’t write? Murder, mystery, thrillers, psychological works, and romances - just some of the strings on her bow. Probably the most versatile author I’ve come across. And this is another ace. It’s a really clever tale that breaks open the bonds of family and personalities as greed, cunning, and self worth are exposed. A series of deaths haunts a family - a curse from the world of the dead or is it the work of a ruthless murderer/murderess motivated by pure malice and a hunger for wealth?
رواية أجاثا كريستي الموت يأتِي في النّهاية>> هكذا كان عنوانها في النسخة التي أمتلك أحببتهاآ بكلـ تفا
It's good when an author tries to stretch, you know, but it was still the same story, and I didn't like that inching-toward-monotheism business one bit; it seemed terribly disrespectful.
If she was taking it seriously, then it's too bad she was such a prejudiced old thing; if she wasn't, then for shame, publishing a novel in which you are so disrespectful toward all your characters.The schizophrenia was too much.
It could've been better, but old Aggie kept slipping into, like, "native talk" or whatever, which was gross.
When she treated her ancient Egyptians like present-day British citizens, then the book was of a quality as the rest of her oeuvre.
The body count mounts as the true nature of the family circle is revealed.I picked this one up because it's on a best-of-all-time list of mysteries; I called the ending early, which generally disappoints me.
A lot of times with Agatha Christie, your head is spinning so fast that it's impossible to keep up.
It's like...here she had mercy on her readers, to the extent that there's only about a short story's worth of standard Christie plot here.
At a short novel length, it's easier to see what she's doing with clues and plot.
If you want to see how a Christie mystery works, read this one.
4.4 stars.Might change the rating later but whoo, that was very intense. And quite a different (but pleasant) Agatha Christie plot and setting. Review to come.
Father Imhotep fusses bossily over brothers submissive Yahmose, middle handsome indolent Sobek, youngest selfish arrogant Ipy. Malicious servant Henet gossips to stir trouble.
Scribes - calm Hori who fixed her toys and dashing Kameni visiting from the north - both want Renisenb to wife.
(view spoiler)[Back from the north, Imhotep brings beautiful concubine Nofret, who convinces him to disown his sons for her, and the murders begin.
Nofret falls, Sobek dies from poison wine, Yahmose fails to recover, his wife falls from the same place as Nofret.
First attracted by Kameni, most like her late husband, she finally stands beside the faithful family overseer, protector since childhood.
I listened to the audiobook as I drove back home from spending Christmas with my family. The beginning of the book, actually most of the book, doesn't feel like an Agatha Christie story. I enjoyed the story as it unfolded, but there were a lot of things repeated over and over again. Sometimes I thought I had forgotten to change the CD. Overall, it's a vey good story, but one you shouldn't "read" while driving. I almost forgot to mention: the narrator brings the characters to life so well, I was very pleased with her narration.
و دايما و انت بتقرأ للعظيمة افتكر القاعدة الى انت ممشى حياتك عليها .. الناس من برا مختلفة عن الى جوا و الغدر مبيجيش الا الى انت بتثق فيهم و الحمد لله الواحد كان متوقع او على الأقل مشتبه فيه و لم يتفاجأ و دا يدل على حاجة من حاجتين .. اما ان اجاثا بقت متوقعة او اننا اتخزوقنا كتير فى الحياة اننا نعرف مين الى القاتل :Dو كالعادة .. انبهرت بأجاثا و فلسفتها هنا ظهرت فى الشخصيات و خباياها و التفكير فيها و ان الذكاء مش دايما خدوم و حاجات كتيييييرة فعليا رواية دسمة و ممتعة جدا .
جميلة ,, فاقت التوقعات في المجرم ... صدمت بالنهاية ... لكنها تستحق القراءة ..
أجمل روايات أجثا تحميل جوا رائعا خاصة لأنها في مصر حبيبة القلبولأنها تحمل أبعادا نفسيا كم هي راقية تلك الكاتبة وكم أعشقها وأحمل لها كل تقدير وحب واحترام
Những gì cô đã từng ước ao – một cuộc sống giản đơn, bình dị, không phải lo nghĩ gì ngoài sự sống và cái chết do già yếu, bên cạnh những người thân mà cô nghĩ rằng cô đã biết rõ từ lâu – bỗng chốc trở thành một kịch bản đáng sợ cho cái ác và sự nhẫn tâm hoành hành.Bao trùm lên câu chuyện trinh thám không chỉ đơn thuần điều tra án mạng, mà còn thấm đẫm sự khắc khoải về nhân tính con người, cảm giác ghê sợ và nghi ngờ khi không biết tiếp theo mạng sống của ai sẽ bị tước mất, là không gian văn hóa và đời sống Ai Cập cổ đại sống động trong từng câu chữ, trong cách đặt tên chương truyện theo lịch cổ và các mùa đồng áng trong năm.
"Your mind is like my mind, it looks out over the River, seeing a world of changes, of new ideas--seeing a world where all things are possible to those with courage and vision..." #TeamHoriUnique in Christie's canon for being a historical mystery...set in Ancient Egypt....atmospheric and haunting.
Loved it as much as her other works.
The murder mystery plot was as flawless as ever and even though this was my second time reading it, I couldn't remember who the killer was and for the life of me could not figure it out.
Een verhaal dat zich afspeelt in het oude Egypte.
Het duurt niet lang of de jonge vrouw wordt vermoord.
Maar daar blijft het niet bij.
Het is tenslotte de jonge schrijver, een jarenlange vertrouweling van de familie, die de dader ontmaskert.Dit verhaal leest heel vlot.
In het voorwoord zegt Agatha Christie dat ze veel research gedaan heeft naar het dagelijks leven in het oude Egypte, wat men at, welke planten er groeiden, waarmee de kinderen speelden, enz.
En inderdaad, bij het lezen ontdek je een rijke schakering van al deze details, zodat men zich levendig de taferelen kan inbeelden.
One of the first Agatha Christie books I can claim I solved at the first murder. I really enjoyed this book, with great character development and plotline, I was hooked from the first page. I loved the atmosphere of the book and how the creepiness developed over time. The Queen of Crime has once again not failed to entertain.
