https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/60924.Seed_to_Harvest
The main plot however is what horrible thing happen when we misunderstand our own selves, even if we are like gods.This is subtle science fiction at the start while Butler gets you used to her way of telling a story and her characters.
In any case, this is SF the way I most prefer it - wrapped into the story rather than sticking out like an interplanetary rocket.Doro and Anyanwu are wonderfully drawn characters and their bond through the years forms the basis for this incredibly enriching novel.
(I can't believe I wrote that last line...)Patternmaster was the first book of the series to be written (and perhaps Butler's first published novel?).
Overall impression :I think my biggest gripe with this series is the cohesion. Even though all four are arranged in chronological order, the actual publication order is: Patternmaster (1976), Mind Of My Mind (1977), Wild Seed (1980), Clay's Ark (1984) and this discrepancy shows. It shows in the writing, ideas and concepts. Wild Seed (Book 1) and Mind of My Mind (Book 2) are the most connected because of Doro and Anyanwu. Clay's Ark (Book 3) just seems like an afterthought and more to give conte
Even though all four are arranged in chronological order, the actual publication order is: Patternmaster (1976), Mind Of My Mind (1977), Wild Seed (1980), Clay's Ark (1984) and this discrepancy shows.
Overall though, I really enjoyed this series and I'm happy I started with it, albeit inadvertently with Wild Seed back in November 2011, so I can now follow the progression of Butler's career.
- 4 starsRead from December 13 to 15, 2011This was a continuation of Wild Seed and it takes place a few centuries or so after Doro and Anyanwu have reached a happy co-existence after the power struggle that took place at the end of Wild Seed.
Doro loves his people, too, but he can't seem to see their needs as mattering compared to his needs or wants.
Butler seems to understand deeply the interaction of power and coercion with love and need in people's connections.
It makes me hear again my mother saying to my dad, "you can bully people into doing a lot of things, but you can't bully people into loving you."Butler sees humanity very clearly with all their fear, their irrational anger and hate, and their unwillingness to accept new ideas.
She loves her characters, I think, even the ones like Doro who persist in doing evil stuff.
As usual, these are my thoughts, minus a summary/retelling. I'm sure there are many of those from other readers (or, you can go to the handy-dandy Wikipedia). First, ratings, then thoughts (with spoilers). Wild Seed -- 5 starsMind of My Mind - 1 star (really want to give it a zero)Clay's Ark -- 2 starsPatternmaster -- 3 starsI've updated my overall rating from 2 to 3 stars. (5/5/14) Here be the spoilers (view spoiler)[Wild SeedExcellent. Outstanding. Lots of positive words here. This novel was p
Wild Seed -- 5 starsMind of My Mind - 1 star (really want to give it a zero)Clay's Ark -- 2 starsPatternmaster -- 3 starsI've updated my overall rating from 2 to 3 stars.
This novel was published second, but it followed Patternmaster, not Wild Seed, may its name be praised.)This sequel should have never seen the light of day.
In Wild Seed, may its name be praised, Ms. Butler created (and in some cases, recreated) a world where issues of power, control, class, consent, race, gender, sex, etc., are fluid and complex, and where even the most despicable character (Doro) is wildly sympathetic and knowable.
In my opinion, if you were to read this in publication order rather than chronological order, the entire series would be so much more enthralling because then the background and history leading up to the present would be slowly revealed, and THOSE are where the magic lies in this series."Wild Seed" without a doubt was my favourite and the best in the series, and I almost even think that it would be better as a stand-alone novel, or maybe with just "Mind of My Mind" as a companion book (and the latter only because of the powerful ending; the rest of the book felt flat).
Reading "Clay's Ark" and THEN "Patternmaster" felt like a total regression where the Clayarks lost all complexity and became blank-faced enemies.
It takes places hundreds of years after Clay's Ark where the world is split into two dominant factions and one minor: Patternist, Clayarks, and mutes (people not connected with the pattern and are not infected with the ClayArks disease).
At first, I wasn't sure what I was getting into when it came to this installment, because of the way I felt after reading Clay's Ark but when looking back over the entire story arc of all the books and the progression of the story, it's brilliant!
And I just couldn't read this book and love it more as an ending to a great series.
I loved Mind of my Mind and Wild Seed, was only ok with Patternmaster, and don't know what to think about Clays Ark, since it was strong overal before the ending ended up being a mess.In general, this is a series worth reading.
If you want to experience a whole new dimension of worldbuilding, creating and showing a history of a fascinating society, read this series.
It is more wholesome than other series are able to and it will definetly be interesting at least.
After reading them I would have preferred to have read them as she wrote them: Pattern-master, Mind of my Mind, Wild Seed, Clay's Ark. Wild Seed definitely superior to the others stories.
There is an eerie creepiness to the stories that I like.
Themes of identity and transformation propel the stories from run of the mill science fiction into great literature.
There is something about human experience here that haunts me, these books were the type of literature that my mind will continue to ponder for years.
PS: I prefer the older book covers who clearly show black characters on the cover.
Currently $1.99https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00...
I could only read bits of it at a time because it was so intensely written.The theme throughout is slavery, starting with a mad god (Doro) trying to create, through selective breeding, a race of telepaths.
Neurotypical people are referred to as "mutes" and are used for child raising (telepaths do not make good parents) and are kept as slaves.The third book departs from Doro's descendants and deals with slavery to a parasitic virus that came back with a space mission.
Octavia Butler is easily my favorite author.
This collection of the Patternist stories is easily my favorite because of the set up, follow through, and end of the series.The story begins with the amazingly complex Doro and Anyanwu.
Everything has been brought forward to this point, Butler's ideas come together perfectly - despite the staggered publishing dates of the stories - to blend a magnificent tale of rise and fall of power.As many have commented, Clay's Ark is probably my least favorite story.
Octavia’s imagination takes readers from the shores of Africa to the modern industrial city, San Francisco in modern day.
Octavia did a really great job of connecting readers to the characters, to the point where I felt personally invested in the success of Anyanwu and her bloodline.
The story follows Anyanwu, the black female protagonist who constantly battles the doing what she wants versus what she's being forced to do in order to preserve her lineage.
Every twist and turn really exposes how fantastic Octavia’s imagination is - she discussed immortality, superpowers, sacrifice, power, struggle and triumph.
This is a collection of four books from her Patternmaster series (presented in order of events rather than order of publication), which starts with an immortal trying to breed psychic humans so he can steal their bodies and follows the story all the way through to his descendants fighting an extraterrestrial virus that mutates their children.
Pretty awesome...I enjoyed all of them (but I liked Patternmaster, the last book here but published first, the least).
I love the spiritual tone of her books.I've read almost everything she's written, and how sad that there won't be more once I finish the rest.
Octavia Butler is brilliant, a national treasure. Her renderings of strange worlds and beings are masterfully believable, calmly assured - no overwriting or overdramatization, yet startlingly strange and wonderful. This series blew my mind. It's been some time since I read it, I think it's time to go back, so I won't mention any detail, but I remember deeply how she shifted my sense of what it is to be human, of relationships, of quests for knowledge, of good and evil, of possible futures and paths not taken...the best in speculative sf.
These books aren’t to be viewed as an epic series, connected through characters and adventures. Instead, it is four different stages in the human evolution Butler has imagined. Reviews:Wild Seed 5/5 starsMind of my Mind: 3/5 starsClay's Ark: 2/5 starsPatternmaster: 3/5 stars
(hide spoiler)] This book can work as a standalone and I suppose was originally written as such.I said above "male-dominated", because for the most part that's how it's portrayed.
And sure, reading Patternmaster first sets up a spoiler for the end of Mind of My Mind, but you already know that Mind of My Mind is book two of four, so it's not like you don't really know how it's going to turn out.
It is a more feminist book than Patternmaster, and puts race right out there though it is ultimately shown not to matter in the big picture.Clay's Ark explains where the Clayarks in Patternmaster come from.
(And I bet I'm in disagreement with just about everyone on which book I liked least.)I deliberated on the order of reading, and I even checked various people's opinions on whether I should read it chronologically (Wild Seed, Mind of My Mind, Clay's Ark, Patternmaster) or in order of publication (PM, MoMM, WS, CA).
It also delved more deeply into the enslavement of humanity in Butler's world, a topic she keeps coming back to (Xenogenesis, Fledgling, Bloodchild) and keeps appearing to endorse (an issue I discuss further in my Lilith's Brood review.)Wild Seed, which many people claim as the best standalone novel of the series, was for me the single most boring Butler novel I've ever read (I've now read them all).
Would give Wild Seed alone 5 stars thoughWild reading this series and realizing they were written in a totally different order over decades
Usually, books that make me uncomfortable end up making me hate them. Butler's books manage to always end up making me like them and sometimes love them. I liked this one very much, although it has more rape and incest than A Song of Ice and Fire.
Wild Seed - 3Mind of My Mind - 4Clay's Ark - 2Patternmaster - 4
These questions imply some pretty serious assumptions, but they are still real questions for people trying to understand the nature of power, survival, morality, and many other life-and-death ideas.She points out how people manipulate other people for a variety of reasons, from the merely selfish to the perceived nobility of the greater good (and how that greater good is even defined).
And people choose to exercise power to protect themselves, to help others, to hurt their enemies, to be seen in a particular way, to act in the name of History, all kinds of reasons.
4 books in one- a long read but I really enjoyed it
She wrote the series more or less “backwards,” by which I mean that her first novel was Patternmaster, set in the far future, her second was Mind of My Mind, which takes places in the late 20th century, then Wild Seed covers about 1690-1850.
One gets the feeling that she wrote it and then really figured out what she wanted to write about when she realized the elaborate far future post-human world she had created interested her less than the question of how we got from here to there.
I ignored Butler too long. Yes I realized that when I finished Fledgling, but guys this was >700 pages of sci-fi epic running from the seventeenth century through the near future. I was riveted for every page. And I don't use "riveted" lightly.
It tells two intertwined stories: that of Doro, a spirit thousands of years old who inhabits the bodies of humans by using their bodies as a temporary vessel as he "feeds" upon them, and Anyanwe, a shapeshifter who has lived for hundreds of years by using her supernatural abilities to heal and rebuild her own body.
Doro selectively breeds humans in an attempt to create superior beings with psychic and telekinetic powers, and the book doesn't shy away from this by masking it in metaphor: Doro is a slave trader, and those he breeds and controls are all, to varying extents, his property.
Five stars.The second book, Mind of My Mind, is set in the present day.
Similar to that series, I also think that the first book is the strongest although every single book in the series is a great read and develops a key aspect of the world she's envisioned in extremely interesting ways.
Wild Seed in general is one of the best books I have ever read, fiction or non-fiction, at getting at some of the thornier core questions about the battle of the sexes and she thinks really deeply about whether true resistance to patriarchy is possible, what it might look like, and how complicated it might be considering the particularly tangled and cyclical relationship between men and women within a larger system of oppression.
My favorite story, "Clay's Ark," was written last though it is the third book.
I enjoyed this one the most because it stands apart from the first two books (which are much more closely connected by characters and storyline) and I found myself wondering when it was going to tie back in the narrative.Reading "Patternmaster" last it was hard to believe it was written first...
it really made "Clay's Ark" fit more neatly into the total package.That being said, book four was the story that interested me least...
apart from the other books it's hard to imagine it standing on it's own.
This is a 4-book compilation of Butler's Patternist series.
I'm glad I read it.
Butler's books in this compilation affirmed her place among the best of them...
even though the final book in the set (Patternmaster) was, frankly, terrible.
all the things I love from SciFi. The final book in the set (Patternmaster) was, therefore, even more crushingly disappointing when compared to the first three novels.
Bottom line: worth a read, worth being exposed to this author and her work, I wish they'd left well enough alone after Clay's Ark. Butler was also lauded for her book Kindred, which I'll certainly read.
butler's stories are gathered and presented in this format.
at a time when reality is continually painful, escaping into her storytelling became a refuge that allowed me to see the world we're in with clearer eyes and still asking more questions.seed to harvest includes:* wild seed - originally published in 1980* mind of my mind - originally published in 1977* clay's ark - originally published in 1984 * patternmaster - originally published in 1976 ms.
i am grateful i read the stories in this sequence and can't wait to read more of ms.
I think part of the reason I didn't like it as much was that a few of the books (actually one in particular) had a pretty dismaying ending.
The other part may have been that each book left me wanting more (which is a wonderful thing by the way).
Still it was amazing to think about the evolution of new types of people and how their ways of life could pit them against each other in violent struggle (commentary on colonialism, slavery, and the genocide of indigenous peoples maybe?).If I could add one thing to this collection it would be another story told from the perspective of the clayarks.
