https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15796750-an-armenian-sketchbook
I said I wanted books to be like these churches, simply made yet expressive, and that I would like God to be living in each book, as in a church.The monastery at Geghard, which Grossman visited.This is a short but intensely personal travel memoir written by Vasily Grossman on an extended trip to Armenia from 1961-1962.
All good to you, Armenians and non-Armenians!The book is short.
This is a man who has seen death camps and wars of extermination, but finds something to love in humanity anyway, beyond nations or statues to false gods.
And so it is in this book.Shortly after the Soviet machinery of mind control confiscated the manuscripts of Grossman's Life and Fate in 1961, including all associated appurtenances like typewriter ribbons (!) - a blow that struck Grossman so hard that his friends and family attest that he aged 20 years in a few weeks - it threw him a bone: he was to "translate" on the basis of a literal translation provided by another person a 1,420 page Armenian novel about "the setting up of a copper smelting plant" !
Introduction--An Armenian Sketchbook--An Armenian Picture AlbumAcknowledgmentsNotesFurther Reading
Grossman'ın bu kitabını okuyunca Ermenistan'ı kıskandım, yazar keşke benim memleketime de gelse böyle anlatıverse dedim...
Büyük bir yazarın dilinden, yüreğinin saflığı ve dürüstlüğünden damla damla akan bir gezi-anı kitabı...
Bu noktada çevirmenin payı da çok büyük, demem o ki daha önce okuduğum Yaşam ve Yazgı'nın birinci ciltten sonra ikinci cildi çevirisinin fazla Rusça kokmasından dolayı kitabı yarıda bırakmış, İngilizcesini satın almıştım -ki okuma listemde-, o yüzden bu kitapta çevirmen Yulva Muhurcişi'nin maharetli çevirisinin ve Aras yayınlarının ciddi editörlük emeğinin de hakkını vermek gerektiğini düşünüyorum...

Vasily Grossman, after the confiscation of his Life and Fate by the KGB, decided to follow in the footsteps of other Russian authors and journey to Armenia, on the pretext of translating a book by an Armenian author, Martirosyan.
The novel is a mishmash of sketches of life in Armenia, Grossman's own views on life, philosophical musings, and the author's activities in the country.The book is a look at Armenia purely from a Soviet perspective.
Unlike with Chatwin, I never got bored with Grossman's writing, no matter what he was discussing.I did enjoy this book a lot and its most outstanding feature was that it was different!
Above everything Grossman admired about Armenia was its people, the peasants of this mountain republic who've endured the stoney hardships of pulling a living from resistant earth.
Along the way Grossman, keen observer of human nature, is able to translate what he sees in the Armenian people into insight about peoples everywhere, giving him opportunity to write long digressions about habit, about how the human mind writes the world and our relation to it, about the joys of simple lives and how the inner beauty of people like these Armenians allows man to make everything valuable in life out of such stoney hardship.
From his first day in Yerevan to his last vignette, a wedding at Mount Aragats, Vasily Grossman's glimpses of life in Armenia of 1962 hold your interest.You feel enriched after each page of this book, whether it is describing the trout on Lake Sevan, Arutyun's sons, the Geghard monestary or Grossman's thoughts on nationalism the writing has both insight and beauty.The book is brief making every word work.A year or so ago I saw the film http://herefilm.info/ which (despite a very iritating love story) shows the beauty of Armenia, its stone and landscape, exactly as Grossman describes it.Highly recommended.
La madre dello sposo che piange alle nozze: “Non piangono perché il figlio si sposa e lascia la madre, piangono perché infinite sono le perdite e le sofferenze toccate in sorte agli armeni, perché non si può non piangere sulla fine tremenda dei propri cari durante il massacro armeno, perché non c’è gioia che possa far dimenticare la sofferenza di un popolo e la terra sorella che si stende sull’altro versante dell’Ararat.
But it is painful to cut and trim the living cloth of a book written and published in too much of a hurry.And so we leave the village.Reading anything by Vasily Grossman is a salutary reminder that, terrible as the 21st century might seem at this moment, by this point in the 20th the world was in the midst of a war thought to end all wars and Russia was convulsed by revolution.
And now all this no longer seems like a vast quarry; it is the site of a battle fought between a great stone mountain and the vastness of time.
"An Armenian Sketchbook" was written two years before his death and is a reflection of the two months Grossman spent travelling and working in Armenia (he was on a mission to translate an Armenian book into Russian).
His describes Armenia as a country of stones and pagans.
I didn't know anything about the author and I don't know much about Armenia, except that they suffered a genocide were killed by the Turks at the turn of the 20th century.
I'm glad I learned about this author, but it was hard to connect to his writing.
Lucas Bridges, author of The Uttermost Part of the Earth -- but also a great work of literature in its own right.Arriving in Yerevan, the capital of Armenia, Grossman is not met at the railroad station, but must find his way through a city not knowing a word of the local language -- and all this time with a painful need to urinate.
I know this feeling, having urethral strictures as a result of some medical orderly's inept attempt to catheterize me forty-eight years ago.
Bear in mind: Grossman did not know any Armenian.
"But the supreme human gift is beauty of soul; it is nobility, magnanimity, and personal courage in the name of what is good.
I decided to read An Armenian Sketchbook next, which is his account of the time he spent in Armenia in 1961, working on a translation of an Armenia novel into Russian.
Grossman recounts his time in Armenia, the people he met there, and the places he visited.
The Sketchbook is a touching and personal work; Grossman gets carried away with his descriptions here and there, but he makes up for it with passages of real beauty.
I have never been lucky enough to visit the ancient land of Armenia, but I don't think you need to have in order to appreciate this short but beautifully written memoir.The particular circumstances of Grossman's visit to Armenia are discussed in the introduction and I won't repeat that discussion here.
Although his cancer was not yet diagnosed, in the book's introduction it is suggested Grossman may have sensed he was nearing the end.
When Grossman visited Armenia only 46 years had passed since the Genocide and the younger survivors were still in their fifties and sixties.
Loved this book. Beautiful, humane, intelligent and insightful. Cannot recommend it highly enough.
I found An Armenian Sketchbook by Vasily Grossman an absorbing, wonderful book to read.
So I wanted to know what Vasily Grossman thought about his visit to Armenia when he wrote his memoir in 1962, two years before he died in 1964.
It was fascinating for me to read his descriptions of places I have visited in Armenia.
Firstly, his impressions of Yerevan and its people, then of Lake Sevan, Mount Ararat, and Echmiadzin cathedral.I particularly enjoyed his detailed description of a restaurant overlooking Lake Sevan which I visited myself in 2016.
Where Grossman spends an entire chapter painting me an impeccable picture of his first impressions of Yerevan, wandering through the city while desperately needing to pee. If these aren't writing chops, I don't know what is. I only wish there was more of it. Magic.
I read this book written by the Ukrainian Vasily Grossman, whose work as a writer was rejected by the Soviet Union, to see what his reaction to visiting Armenia would be.
He described the peasants, the statue of Stalin, the train, Yerevan, and the mountains where the peasants lived in a poor state.
In other words, this character cannot be simplified.He stated that Armenians are people and people differ everywhere, so that generalizations are useless.
Yet he found them rich in spirit akin to religion.He analyzed his own feelings as well as the actions of the people he met in a very personal and tender way, which was considered out of character for him.
Armenians get a bad rap if you live in Glendale.
They’re called bad drivers, tacky and pushy.
Vasily Grossman exposes these prejudices in AN ARMENIAN SKETCHBOOK a travelogue of his time in Armenia working on the translation of a social realist novel.
He goes a bit overboard in the these-people-don’t-suck-they’re-great flip side of prejudice, but that’s only a small part of this interesting memoir.
Mostly, it’s beautiful descriptions of the landscape and people, the food and customs, the relationships with bordering countries, his bowels, views on religion and literature, and anything else that comes into his head.
I started reading this knowing nothing about it and thought it would probably be about someone drawing.
I didn't care at all what the subject of the book was (and didn't know when I began), I just loved how he didn't hold back; he let all the words that could describe go forth and do their work.
Breathlessly beautiful.Before I ended the book, I went back and began it again.
This time, I knew why this Jewish Russian writer was in Armenia to translate a book into Russian even though he didn't know Armenian.
If you want to know how to write a philosophically reflective travelogue I suggest picking up this book.
In fact I have to now go get to work structuring paragraphs and chapters of a forthcoming novella-travelogue I wanted to be no less than 90 pages and no more than 125.
For those of you to whom the above is not applicable, then take consolation in the fact that you will not be let down with this obscure gem of a book.
E lo fa con un dipinto di Raffaello Sanzio che lui aveva visto a Mosca dopo la seconda Guerra Mondiale.
Il dipinto apparteneva alla città di Dresda, Germania, dove si trova adesso, ma dopo la fine del conflitto l’Armata Rossa lo aveva portato a Mosca, dove era rimasto sino al 1955.
La liberazione di Mosca; l'assedio di Stalingrado; la liberazione del suolo russo dall'invasore tedesco e italiano, e poi l'avanzata sino a Berlino, dove la volontà di distruzione aveva trovato istituzioni e uomini determinati.
Ma prima di Berlino, Grossman era entrato con l'Armata Rossa nel campo di concentramento di Treblinka, e aveva visto l'opera di quella volontà, tesa alla distruzione.
Enjoyable if not a little on the short side, the Caucasus region has always been present in russian history and literature, it was enjoyable to read a little about one of the countries of the region. Armenia has a very long history, armenian kings dealt with Rome and Persia, armenian suzerainty was always an issue between them. I'm glad Grossman acknowledged how ancient the country is, long before there was a Russia, Armenia existed.
You know, I'd searched for this book for a while and I'd always wanted to read it but I had no idea just how delightful it would be. So beautifully written, it reads like a conversation with an especially eloquent and profound friend. I went to Armenia some 60 years after this book was written, but still, so much of it was really evocative. This brought a huge smile to my face.
I liked this book a lot more than I thought I would. I bought it on a whim at Half Price Books thinking I had read a book by Grossman but I guess I haven't. He is an exceptional writer and this book was sad and hilarious at the same time.
"In spite of everything, life would go on, the life of a nation making its way through a land of stone." (p. 100) This pretty much sums up not only the Armenian people, but also Grossman's view of them and of this account of the brief time he spent in Armenia.
This is poetic prose. It made me laugh, it made me cry. Vasily Grossman is quietly becoming a favorite author of mine. He sees what's important (and what's not so important), writes it down and leaves it for us to enjoy.
An absolute gem of a book
Çok az sayıda yazar, Stalingrad Savaşı ve Yahudi Soykırımı hakkında Vasili Grossman'ın açıklığıyla yazdı; 20.
yüzyılın kitlesel trajedileriyle yüzleşmek zorunda kaldı.
Öte yandan "Taşlar Ülkesine Yolculuk", bize, samimiyeti ve detaycılığıyla dikkat çeken, çok farklı bir Grossman gösteriyor.
"Yaşam ve Yazgı"yı yayımlatamamasıyla birlikte Ermenice yazılmış uzun bir romanının Rusça çevirisini gözden geçirme görevini üstlenen Grossman, para ihtiyacını ve Ermenistan'a seyahat etme "bahanesini" edebi bir yolculuğa dönüştürmüş.
"Taşlar Ülkesine Yolculuk", Yerevan ve çevresinde geçirdiği iki ayı anlatıyor.
Ermenistan'ın dağları, eski kiliseleri, halkı hakkında okuyucusuyla sohbet ederken, kendi düşünceleri ve ruh halleri üzerinde de derin bir gözlemde bulunur.
Yaklaşık 60 yıl önceden süzülen bir otoportre...
This is a delightful little book and a great place to start with Grossman, here at the end of his life on the Armenian steppe in the early sixties. The book is part travelogue, part memoir, part philosophy. It's all very heartfelt and poignant. The passage describing the author's 'near death experience', written only around two years before he actually perished of cancer, is one of the most amazing such passages I've read in all of literature.
