https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/72623.Dream_Man
No review for this one even though I loved it because:1. I am uber-lazy2. I'd rather spend my free time reading another Linda Howard3. I am obsessed with Linda Howard4. Linda Howard!!!!!!!!
I've got mixed feeling about this one. I loved the heroine. The serial murderer plot kept me interested. The side characters were interesting. It was all really good.Then we have the hero. He started out as a self-important douche noodle, and I was thinking "Man this dude is such a prick" But then he got better, and I warmed up to him. That's until we find out that he had been basically planning (view spoiler)[ on using her as bait since the very beginning of their relationship. (hide spoiler)]
He started out as a self-important douche noodle, and I was thinking "Man this dude is such a prick" But then he got better, and I warmed up to him.
(hide spoiler)] After everything the poor heroine had been through, this dick-face thought it was A-OK to (view spoiler)[ use the woman he is supposed to love as bait for a serial killer.
(hide spoiler)] WTF!?
All my warm and fuzzy feelings dried up licky-split.
She should have stabbed his devious self-centered ass with a spork!Overall I enjoyed most aspects of the book, but the hero dropped this down a star.
Written April 25, 20153 Stars - A nice and thrilling suspense romance but the audio edition left me blankI've been listened to the 11:15 hrs audiobook commuted back and forth to work this week. A lot of friends rated this one high and I usually enjoy a good "old" LH's story so it was with quite big expectation I first pushed the "play" button. Sorry to say but...Next to four solid star for the story but not more than two stars for this audio narration... I'm a bit dissapointed. It sucks!********
“I always have had more guts than sense,” he said, and very gently brushed her mouth with his.’Dream Man starts with a raw nasty first murder, some mistrust and insults between the MC's but quite quickly it all changed to a hot romantic passion story mixed with more stabbed innocent women.
...Dream Man is good entertainment romance in the suspense genre.
BUT I couldn't enjoy nearly as much as I wished.***********************************************The audiobook and narratorDream Man is narrated by Phil Gigante whose voice I enjoyed a lot some weeks ago in a book in a totally different genre (a psychological thriller).
I wasn’t sure at first I was going to like the storyline.
So we have our sexy detective, Dane Hollister, who is a committed bachelor, liking his life as a cop too much to ever bring a woman into his life.
He is a bit rough around the edges, and he likes it that way.
Then a few days into the investigation, a young attractive woman shows up at the station and tells her tale.
The heroine gave in a little bit too quickly for me, but it didn’t really take away from the story.
This was a re-read and it was great. 4.5 stars.  Detective Dane Hollister of the Orlando police department had never met anyone like Marlie. He had doubts about her clairvoyance, but there was no doubt how much he desired her. Her soft, sweet scent set his blood afire, and he wanted to wrap her in his arms and chase the sadness from her eyes. To Marlie, Dane was all heat and hard muscle, and he made her body come alive as it never had before.  Dane is a bit of an alpha ass! Yep, we sure do love
This was a re-read and it was great.
Detective Dane Hollister of the Orlando police department had never met anyone like Marlie.
Her soft, sweet scent set his blood afire, and he wanted to wrap her in his arms and chase the sadness from her eyes.
To Marlie, Dane was all heat and hard muscle, and he made her body come alive as it never had before.
Dane is a bit of an alpha ass!
He falls hard for Marlie.
He was restless and fractious as a stallion who could scent a mare in season but couldn't get to her.
"Go to hell, Detective."
●●●●●●CRIME FIGHTERS!●●●●●●Suspense, Paranormal and Romance  ♦Marlie’s ♦ a psychic who after a six years of having no psychic episodes is now seeing horrific murders through the eyes of the murderer. After the first episode she contacts the Orlando police department with the goal of helping them but knowing she’ll be their number one suspect since she can describe in detail the whole murder scene. Marlie is empathetic; she sees and feels the emotions of other people.  ♦Dane’s ♦ an Orlando poli
After the first episode she contacts the Orlando police department with the goal of helping them but knowing she’ll be their number one suspect since she can describe in detail the whole murder scene.
Marlie is empathetic; she sees and feels the emotions of other people.
Mostly women are his prey but there are a few men who meet his criteria for needing to be taught a lesson.
These aren’t random murders …these are well thought out murders to right the world of rude people.I’m not a fan of instant of love but I’m going to give this a pass because I really enjoyed the story.
I liked Marlie a lot.
Dane was gruff with no polished edges, but I loved that he was incredibly protective of Marlie.
Marlie should've made him grovel more.
Still, I love how this one ended.
I liked this story, but I think the narrator impaired my enjoyment.
I love his narration in the Fever series, but I'd never heard his female voices.
His performance made Marlie sound a juvenile.
I believe Marlie had good reasons to be upset at times but the narration made her sound a little peevish when she was angry.
Another FABULOUS Linda Howard re-re RE-read! LH does creepy so good... and her lead guys are always totally alpha, rugged, take what they want type of men. In this case.. it was a hot detective .. a little rugged around the edges .. but all M-A-N. No one does romantic suspense like Linda Howard. Period.
I would like to mention Epilogue , H has morning sickness , he throws up and God yes he is the one who will have contractions when h is pregnant .
It was a typical Linda Howard romance originally published in the mid 1990s with an uber alpha male.
Dane Hollister would have been right at home with dominant cavemen if he had lived thousands of years ago.
I enjoyed reading about two guys that were co-workers and friends.They first became involved with Marlie Keen when she walked into their police station and volunteered information about a murder.
Initially, Marlie put Dane in place because of his overbearing attitude but that was short-lived.
(view spoiler)[Then the story delved into monkey-sex, with him boinking her whenever and wherever possible.
In a nutshell, Marlie is a psychic who sees murders as they happen.
Dane is a homicide detective who thinks she's nuts.
Dane has to be one of the worst characters I have read about in any book.
He knows how she feels about the media attention but he sets her up to be exposed anyway.
I had a hard time getting through this book and that never happens with Linda Howard's books.
I know Dane was only "doing his job as a detective" but the way he went about all of it made him that much more unlikeable.
This is one of my favorite LH books. I love Dane and Marlee! Marlee is a psychic who sees a crime being committed. She goes to the police to help, where she meets Dane, a cynical homicide detective who thinks psychics are just people who forgot the "ot" in psychotic. The story is great and I loved the romance between Dane and Marlee. Highly recommended!
Whew!
After reading this one I feel like I ran a marathon.
The mystery part was creepy and tense.
The romance between Dane and Marlie was going alright after he finally believed in her abilities.
But, I didn't trust Dane.
I won't say too much, but even though I suspected him of using Marlie, I wasn't prepared for the curve ball that the author threw.
After that I couldn't back all those warm and fuzzy feelings for Dane.
So, I gave the book three stars because the suspense was top notch, but the romance left me feeling dissatisfied.
No time for a full review so just a one liner today.Another Linda Howard book that I enjoyed so if you are a fan, then this one is definitely worth reading!! ❤
-- at one point Dane decides he has to remodel his home because he doesn't like the way it would feel to have Marlie move in or be over when he had had so many women there before.
Well, I loved the sound of that but then, as it turns out, he remodels, gets all new furniture except (get this) HIS BED!!!!!
So apparently it felt uncomfortable to have her sit on his former couch, but it didn't feel weird to have Marlie sleep and have sex with him in the same bed many past girlfriends had been in.
Like it should have been a shifter book kind of insta lust.
He totally bullied his way into Marlie's life and she had no experience to be able to handle him.
For the most part I enjoyed the story even though it was really murder investigation and sex.
No romance, dialogue about things other than the murders or anything else that would put heart and feeling into the relationship.
But then...Dane pulls a totally disrespectful dick move, putting Marlie's life in danger and with zero regard for her feelings, and I just could not get over it by the end of the book.
DNF. Nope, I cannot stomach this psychic bullshit.
Cuarto libro que leo este mes de esta autora para el #RetoRita2 #RitaHoward y, aunque es entretenido, quizá sea el que menos me ha convencido de los que llevo leídos.
Vaya por delante que la protagonista, Marlie, me ha gustado mucho, pero la trama de suspense paranormal es de telefilm de sábado por la tarde y el prota masculino, Dane, me ha sacado de mis casillas en un momento concreto.
Sé que algo así era inevitable, pero ¿había que hacerlo a espaldas de Marlie?
Yo creo que no.
Menos mal que el epílogo pone a todos en su lugar, jajaja, muy bueno eso Sra. Howard.
Nice little bromance with his partner as well.Marlie, a psychic, has a vision of a vicious murder and is compelled to go to the police while knowing it will open her up to ridicule.
This book precedes most if not all of the current macho alpha heroes: poor misunderstood billionaire living in their high-rise or the rough and tumble amoral (immoral?) motorcycle men, but Dane is the real deal.
(view spoiler)[ Loved, loved, loved the end when Marlie is in labor but Dane is the one who really experiences the labor pains.
3  stars. Overall a pretty good story, but not as good as other books by this author.I am not a fan of stories like this – using a partial psychic visions to create mystery. Marlie has psychic visions being in the head of the killer. These are partial visions and don’t give enough information to help the police. After each vision Marlie is weak and tired and must sleep for a long time – which gives the author more to talk about.I was annoyed several times when Marlie was in the middle of a psych
Overall a pretty good story, but not as good as other books by this author.I am not a fan of stories like this – using a partial psychic visions to create mystery.
She needs more time in the vision to get more info.The relationship development between Marlie and Dane was pretty good.AUDIOBOOK NARRATOR:Phil Gigante was very good with male voices.
The narrator made other females sound like effeminate gay guys.
Don’t get me wrong, I like listening to an effeminate gay guy.
I have to say, Linda Howard's books are really a mixed bag...
but most of the time the synposis gives you a really good feel for what you're going to be in for.
She's given me two all-time favourite reads: After the Night and Shades Of Twilight.
I'm definitely open to some more Linda Howard so if you happen to know any of her books that aren't too heavy on the mystery and crime then let me know for sure.
Or if any of you know any books that are similar to Shades of Twilight and After the Night then let me know!
An enjoyable experience until 90%, then I had to force myself to get to the end.
And I lost any respect I had for the heroine.
She has no brain nor self respect either.
So at the end the romance was a great let down.
And given that RS are romance, no real mystery(view spoiler)[if this is the way cops protect witnesses we would all be dead  (hide spoiler)], if the romance fails...All the last 10% of the book was either rant or cringe worthy.
And please let us avoid talking about the epilogue..
Sorry, I can't recommend this book.
4.25/5 creepy bald serial killer starsThis is the second book I've read by Linda Howard.
I liked this book a little less than the first book I read by her - Mr. Perfect when it comes to the romance.
I did like Dane and Marlie together, but at around 80% Dane does something that kind of ruins the romance of their relationship for me.
The crime in this book was a lot heavier than in Mr. Perfect.
If you like romance novels and a good crime novel, than this book is the perfect marriage for you!
Can Marlie and Dean put aside their differences to catch a monster?A gripping serial killer plot and an intense romance make this a fantastic romantic suspense read.
Dane is a typical alpha male who finds it difficult to accept that psychic abilities exist and makes no bones about his views.
Dane not only (view spoiler)[exposes Marlie to the press knowing full well that it might ruin her life (hide spoiler)]; he also (view spoiler)[sets her up as bait for the killer (hide spoiler)].
Despite this issue, Dream Man is well worth the read for lovers of hot heroes, spunky heroines and bone-chilling serial killer tales.
Linda Howard is fast-becoming a favorite author of mine.
After Duncan's Bride and Loving Evangeline, I'm glad I came across with this gem.
I just love how she portrayed her characters in this book, the MCs as well as the secondary characters were likeable and endearing.
The story was very suspenseful and I admit it gave me chills that I had to put the book down for a few hours and read other novels before picking this up again.
This may not be a favorite LH book for me, but it was still a great read.
I thought the heroine was very stupid sometimes (especially towards the the end) and sure, I like alpha males but I thought the hero was a bit too intense. Plus that move he mad at the end was so messed up, personally I thought she forgave him too easily. But, overall it was an enjoyable read.
I love the premise of a psychic helping solve crimes and falling in love with the detective in charge.
First, let's meet the characters.Marlie has visions since she was four years old.
She helped find lost children but has been traumatized with the last case that her psychic abilities shut down.
She has been living a normal life for six years until one fateful night, her abilities came back.Dane is a cop who uses whatever source he could to solve a crime.
Yeah, he was doing his job but still it's my right to hold a grudge.
4.5 starsIt wasn't perfect, but I loved it anyway!The heroine is a psychic/empath, that's the only paranormal feature in this book.
In the middle she felt a little weak to me, but it didn't bother me so much.The hero...I can't tell you how hard it is to find a rude and bossy bully, the fiercly protective and possessive alpha nowdays.
I wanted to knee him in his groin so hard.
LOL Awesome, funny epilogue.This book was a perfect blend of romance and suspense.
This is another needle in a haystack, to find books w/o this crap and still have an interesting plot and characters.
3- I wanted to love it but couldn't Stars...I read another book by Linda Howard, Into the Night and I LOVED IT.
I can handle a dusting of unusual now and then so when I heard this book had a psychic who helped find the killer when the close aid of one detective I was full in.Marlie wasn't everything I wanted out a heroine but she worked.
I felt like these guys moved super fast from hate to LOVE, and while I can sometimes look over instant love, this one was super rushed.
But, the good news is, there are plenty more Linda Howard's to read and I will hold out for another "Into the Night" style book.
I don't love being in the mind of a serial killer, but Howard's twist on that was very well done.
I liked that Howard didn't soften him too much, or suddenly jerk him out of character simply because he found "love." Dane was physical, elemental, and driven by his need to do his job.
There was no "big misunderstanding" in the plot (yay), but there was enough real (believable) misunderstanding between the characters to create the necessary tension.A 1/2* off for the stupid epilogue.
I usually love epilogues, but this one felt like it'd been beamed from Planet Schmaltz.
