https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/289169.Quite_Ugly_One_Morning
Didnt know this was set in Scotland when I picked it up.Really enjoyed this wee story. Easy to get through.
If I had to describe my staple reading diet it would be contemporary American fiction, particularly American crime fiction.
There are two Scottish writers I do really like though (Ian Rankin and Iain Banks) and for some while friends have been nagging me to give Brookmyre a go.
The plot rocks along at a steady pace and I laughed quite a bit (particularly at the beginning and towards the end).
But I will read another and will probably dip back into Brookmyre's work whenever I'm in the mood for some lighthearted fun.
This review might offend easily offended people.This is the book where Brookmyre has a graphic description of a turd early on, which I thought was rather unnecessary, but what would I know?
More people read his books than my reviews.
‘Has she done it yet?’ They’ve just had a kitten, you see, called Socks and they are waiting for her to do her first poo.
Indeed, very much the sort of places Brookmyre might lay one.In this particular book somebody manages to shit on top of the mantelpiece.
Jack Parlabane is an investigative reporter, who is a master cat burglar but only steals what he needs for his stories. When a famous doctor is viciously murdered in Edinburgh, he can't stay uninvolved. Turns out that the doctor has a gambling problem, but that doesn't seem to be the motive for the crime. In fact, the motive itself was well-cloaked. Funny at times, and with some reasonable insight into the horrors of doctors becoming certified, the book was not that great. I don't think I've ever read a book with more vomit either.
Jack Parlabane, the hero of Quite Ugly One Morning is simply a clutter-breaking character.
I was introduced to this book by a lady friend who generally eats men for breakfast and was told I am the second guy she really likes, with Jack Parlabane holding the No 1 spot.
I don’t mind relinquishing the No 1 spot to Jack Parlabane.
But the entire thing is carried on the lithe shoulders of Jack Parlabane.
Mr. Brookmyre deserves the award which he has clinched for this book, every bit of it.If you haven’t read this book, stop whatever you are doing and go pick it up.
An easy ready and sort of easy to deduct the killer, as Christopher Brookmyre doesn't worry about the whodunit part, as the why the crime took place and he tries to build a background of the characters.
The black humor in this book is so good, so on the point and if you read and giggle and perhaps laugh at some parts...
Some people may find this book off putting for a first book in a series, as the author didn't create the best crime or suspects ever, but his writing style and satire balances it all for a solid 3.5 star and enough curiosity to read the second book in the series.
A very few chapters later, Christopher Brookmyre tells you whodunnit, and the rest of the book involves a lot of charging about while the good guys explain to each other how their deducings are getting on, and the bad guys get increasingly worried about their progress.I'm sure that would be a turn-off for a lot of readers, but I have an extremely lassez-faire attitude to spoilers.
I like watching people work things out - I even quite like Info-Dump By Dialogue, okay?
sue me - and I like a good detective story where I know the outcome already.
Who'd think you might find a hardboiled mystery set in Scotland?
That's not the Scotland of Christopher Brookmyre's most excellent "Quite Ugly One Morning."Now then, don't read any further if you aren't a fan of novels with explicit language and, well .
let's just say "vivid" scenes.
So are the women he unwittingly engages to help him here and there.It's all so straightforward, and yet the novel raises the bar for the standard fare I've been accustomed to.
And even if it does have, oh, the occasional dollop of violence, it's balanced quite nicely with some laugh-out-loud moments somehow connected to those scenes.
What a wonderful, engaging read.
It's a mystery/crime novel set in Edinburgh in the 90's.
The book is funny and I liked the writing, but the plot is nothing special: I'm bored with evil, moneygrubbing corporate executives.
I liked the protagonist and while the characterizations were all a bit shallow, I enjoyed the supporting cast.
I've already ordered the next couple of books featuring these characters.I enjoyed the fact that Parlabane, who is inured to bloody crime scenes and fearless about breaking and entering, completely freaks out when he discovers that someone is trying to kill him.
It was a refreshingly normal reaction for a crime novel hero.
Fun, manic crime novel set in Edinburgh, which starts with a bang and never lets up. Also made me laugh that the NHS trust manager is portrayed in the way he is, as is the corporate structure of the NHS.
The novel opens with a corpse and copious amounts of urine, a giant turd and vomit.
In fact, vomit is a major ingredient of the book, along with Irn Bru, missing fingers, English brutes, amoral posh Edinburgh doctors and evil English Tories.
Just a bit too much vomit and pish for me to give it five stars.
But this was my first Brookmyre and shan't be my last.Download my starter library for free here - http://eepurl.com/bFkt0X - and receive my monthly newsletter with book recommendations galore for the Japanophile/crime fiction/English-as-a-foreign-language teacher in all of us.
An excellent story that shows us all the shite going on in the hospital business. There's some crooked people, they're maybe a little stereotypical, but they're crooked enough for my liking. The good guys are good characters too, and the main character, Parlabane, is also a bad ass. I liked the easy writing, the fast-paced story and the characters. So I wanna read more of this series.Sure, there was probably a little too much of excrement and vomit and such for my liking, but I'm gonna let it slide. Pun intended.
But the plot isn't the real reason to read this or any of the author's other works; it's the dialog and attitude, all of which is spot on, raunchy, and sometimes laugh-out-loud funny in a really dark, twisted way.It's likely no coincidence that Brookmyre was a member of the Fourth Estate before he began writing about the imaginary people in his wee haid.
Even when the characters are lunatics or cretins, they're mostly not entirely cartoons.As in the other Brookmyre novels I've read, the author has a larger grievance that the story exposes.
Quite Ugly One Morning = ((NHS + money-grabbing politician) x (Parlabane + romance)) ^ Graphic violenceFor a long time previously my other half had been reading Brookmyre and loving them.
My reaction to this would be to moan; "Turn out the light, I want to go to sleep!"After much cajoling, I finally agreed to read a Brookmyre book.
Being the anal kind of person that I am, I insisted on starting at the beginning.Before I'd even finished the book I was apologising to my other half for ever moaning or rolling my eyes when he couldn't put a Brookmyre book down, or insisted on reading snippets out to me.I was hooked by page three.
The book has a very black humour running through it with some very memorable set pieces which are a mixture of disgusting and very funny (I guess working with a number of scots I have experienced this sort of dialogue first hand!), but there is also an enthralling story running through it which at times can be lost a bit but always finds its way to shine through again.
The book is historically based, set in "post-thatcherite" Scotland.
This may not be to everyones taste but for me having lived through that time and have experienced the colour and character of the Scottish this was a great book which has certainly encouraged me to read more the Parlabane books
This is the first of the Jack Parlabane novels - a short journalist with a habit for getting himself seriously into trouble often involving him carrying on like a burglar.This was made into a television show a couple of years ago and they really made a mess of it.
Hard to imagine, as his stuff really is crying out to be made into films.Parlabane has returned suddenly to Scotland only to wake the next morning to the smell of various human wastes in his flat.
If Quentin Tarantino and Carl Hiassen had a love child, and he was Scottish, he might turn out to be something like Christopher Brookmyre - violent, profane and outrageously funny.Jack Parlabane is an intrepid muckraking journalist who stumbles - quite literally - into a horrific murder scene.
Parlabane determines to get to the bottom of it with the help of the doctor's ex-wife and DC Jenny Dalziel.
I am frequently asked who was the inspiration for my investigative journalist Jack Parlabane; whether he has some real-life antecedent or represents some indulgent alter-ego of mine.
There was one thing I liked about this book: The rancid detail of the crime scene and the violence that led to it. Not much else grabbed my attention though. The characters were colourful enough, but the only interesting ones were the villains. The writer kept telling me how cool the heroes were, but they were a bit too obvious for my taste.
Kind of a unique protagonist. Had a bit of trouble translating some of the Scottish slang and found Jack just a bit too macho and quick thinking but I have never read a more humorous murder scene than the first one in this book. Not a funny subject but I was laughing out loud at the clumsiness of the murderer. For those of you who do read it, an excellent Scottish online translator is: http://www.scotranslate.com/#
I thoroughly enjoyed this book, despite having been told about it ages ago and thinking it probably wasn't for me! I was completely and utterly wrong 😁I laughed a lot, loved the vernacular and the familiarity of the location, and so yet again have to add another author to my ever extending list of "to reads".
Mr Smith suggested that I may find Chris Brookmyre‘s writing style and characters right up my street, and I hate to say it…he may not have been wrong!Set in Edinburgh, this book is full of a dry, dark wit that you are either going to love (Me!
It oozes the grittiness of the gangland underworld, with deception, betrayal, murder most foul, revenge, gory violence and the search for justice seeping from the pages.Although the synopsis is vague, it gives away enough to inform you what the storyline is and to be honest, I think reading the book is the best way to pick up the complexity, hilarity, dry wit and totally gripping context of what this book is about!Now let’s talk characters!
I seem to enjoy Brookmyre's books that are part of a series more rather than the stand alone ones.
I'm not sure whether it's because we have more time to get attached to the characters, or whether they are just more interesting but I really enjoyed this book.It's the first of Brookmyre's books that I found myself laughing out loud to.
Parlabane was a brilliant protagonist and I loved how he bounced off the other characters, most particularly Sarah and Jenny and I liked his romance with Sarah as it was so subtle and sweet.I got a bit lost and bored with the intricacies of the scandal behind the murder but it didn't dull my enjoyment of the story.
I'm not usually a crime fan but then this is no ordinary piece of crime fiction. This book is a very witty, very funny satire written in such a way that it is also appallingly believable. There will be times you can't put this book down, and times when you must: if only through shock, abhorrence, or bellyaching laughter.
My younger daughter pointed me in the direction of this book and I am now avidly tracking down and reading all his works that I can get my mitts on. Jack Parlabane is my kind of guy and features in several other Brookmyre books. The wit within the novel is very sharp and the book is one of those unputdownable ones.
3.5 but will do a review later.
3.5 starsAfter reading the 7th book in this series (Black Widow) and loving it, I decided to go back to the beginning.
So this is the first Jack Parlabane book which was written in around 1995.
The reference to 'personals' (mobile phones or cells) was about the only dated aspect.Jack Parlabane is an investigative reporter that loves the hard-hitting exposes.
Things soon take a more dangerous twist for Jack and Sarah (the ex-wife of the murdered doctor) who has been helping him uncover this scam.It was a very entertaining story, I really enjoyed it.
This book is completely hysterical.
It's like the best hangover story ever told.
While it's a mystery, I don't know that I'd quite call it a thriller - there's not too much nail biting here and you have a sense of who the bad guys are pretty early in the story.
But it's so funny and the characters are so endearing - it's really hard to put down.This is a fast, funny read for mystery lovers.
I'd totally recommend it - I was laughing out loud in some places.
But not for the easily offended - there's lots of potty humor.
I don’t often find myself laughing out loud when reading a book, especially a well-crafted mystery, but that’s what happened here. Good read, as they say!
If you can get past the first five pages without being put off, you'll be fine.
I found them hilarious - almost a textbook example of how to start a novel - but they are as filthy and disgusting as the book gets, pretty much.
The plot is well-woven: the murder part is not a whodunnit, as we discover quite quickly who did and how it all went wrong and almost end up feeling sorry for the complete numpty 'responsible', but the mystery is the full motive and the details of the conspiracy behind the murder.
The main character is intriguing and his love interest is well chosen, as is his police contact.
I'll definitely be back for more.
Best line "well, ordinarily I tend not to take the word of fat tory bastards, but by tbe law of averages they've got to be telling the truth once in a while." 😂😂😂😂 Brilliant !!!!
