https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7137775-rules-of-attraction
Did he not get your sangre going?ELLE: Well, y’know Simone, it takes a bit more than a 17 year old boy to...SIMONE ELKELES: And then there’s my EPIC CLEVERNESS.
SIMONE ELKELES: And then you must have been completely PERPLEXED by all the twists and turns and UNEXPECTED occurrences throughout the journey?ELLE: Yes well...
Is it not?ELLE: ...SIMONE ELKELES: Your silence is praise to my humble ears, Senorita.
ELLE: Is it going to be the same f’king story with the same f’king characters and the same f’king outcome?SIMONE ELKELES: ...
/Reread in July   Just don't leave me, okay? Everyone leaves me.   Perfect Chemistry and Rules of Attraction. Two of my favorite YA novels. No me arrepiento de nada.
Before I read the bookAnyone else agree that after this she should write a third book about the youngest Fuentes, Luis?-----------------------------------------------------Yay, she is writing another book about Luis!-----------------------------------------------------Review Time (I like to give pointers on how I like my reviews to be read in brackets, feel free to ignore my suggestions)Aaahhh, my Fuentes boys, could you be anymore perfect?
Perhaps it is a little bit formulaic, but, its a very nice formula, isn't it?
As you can see above, I am really looking forward to Chain Reaction (awesome name), and, this time it will be Luis reforming a bad girl!, nice huh?
Rules of Attraction is the companion novel to Perfect Chemistry.
I loved Perfect Chemistry, there is something about it that is so very addictive, so when I heard that Elkeles was writing another novel about Alex's little brother, I knew I was in for a treat.
Perfect Chemistry is still my favorite but Rules of Attraction was also fantastic!I'm a complete sap for the bad ass guy with the good heart.
And darn it, sometimes I just want to feel warm and tingly!Overall Rules of Attraction was wonderfully written, with intriguing characters and a captivating love story.
This book has a lot of similarities to the first in the series, Perfect Chemistry--at the beginning, it felt like the only difference was that Kiara had a stutter.
After Perfect Chemistry's cover, where Alex and Brittney are laying on each other in the cover art, I saw this one and thought, "thank goodness I am not living with my Boston roommates anymore--they made fun of me for reading the other one and this one is even more ridiculous!" Did you see the cover for the third book in the series, Chain Reaction?
And when Brittney narrates, the female voice actor impersonates Carlos and Alex's voices.
I loved the dialog, pranks and slapstick funny scenes throughout the novel, but most of all, I loved the sincere moments between bad-boy Carlos and goodie two shoes Kiara.
In Rules of Attraction, we meet Alex’s hot headed and rebellious younger brother Carlos.
This begins Carlos and Kiara's rollercoaster of a ride with its fair share of ups and downs.This was such a great sequel to Perfect Chemistry, and I loved revisiting two of my fave characters, Alex and Britt.
AND great title, as it serves to remind us there are no rules of attraction, it just happens naturally.
4 Stars - Also reviewed at: Lady Jayne's Reading Den(This is an Adult-who-enjoys-reliving-the-stirrings-of-first-love-and-self-discovery-during-the-teen-years-through-YA books review)**CONTENT WARNING - Since this is a YA book I will include a warning that this book contains some Sexual, Drug and Alcohol, Course Language and Violent Content - Recommended for Older Teens and Adults who enjoy YA books**Rules of Attraction is the sequel to Perfect Chemistry, and the second book in the “Fuentes Brothers Trilogy”.
However, while I really enjoyed this book, it lacked that sizzling, combustible magic that was Perfect Chemistry, for me.Carlos Fuentes is a rebel who loves living on the edge.
If you haven't read Perfect Chemistry by Ms Elkeles... there may be spoilers ahead. “Want to get in trouble with me, Carlos?” Initial Final Page Thoughts.OK, so I have to admit I originally picked this book up with every intention of laughing at it as opposed to with it. But Ms Elkeles definitely got the last laugh because this book and I had a whale of a time together and I'm thinking of proposing soon. Also:Some Things I Will Never Understand.Why some girls (and some boys…) where leggings as p
I don’t know whether I have to hand in my YA reader card in to someone or get a strike against my name or something… but I much much muuuuuch preferred this book.High Points.Carlos.
In Perfect Chemistry it worked with Alex’s character but with Carlos it just seemed like Ms Elkeles was like “Meep, we need more angst.
Hero.Hola Carlos.Oh wait… sorry, I know you don’t like white kids try and sound Mexican.
Also, even though I kinda wanted a make-over scene, I liked that Kiara didn’t change anything about herself and Carlos didn’t push it.
Rules of Attraction was a good story that I enjoyed reading but I didn't think Carlos and Kiara had the crazy chemistry that Alex and Brittany did.
But overall the story was a good read that I enjoyed a lot.We got to see more of Alex and Brittany as they are both in college.
They hit a rough patch in their relationship when Alex doesn't want to meet with her parents because he is afraid she will realize she can do better than him but they work things out when she convinces Alex that she wants to be with him no matter when anyone thinks and she refuses to hide their relationship at all.
Just like Alex and Brittany, I like how Carlos and Kiara's romance developed.
Although, at times, I felt like their romance was too rushed, I love how there were small events that strengthened it.
Game when Carlos finds out he doesn't want Kiara to be with another guy *swoon*5.
One problem was that I felt like she shouldn't have had sex with Carlos before marriage.
I mean, one thing I would probably change about Elkeles's stories is to have her characters actually have sex after marriage.
It felt like she was asking him to confess his love all the time.
I haven't read a single book by this author that didn't make my stomach do flip flops every few chapters.
Can somebody please explain to me how this is possible?
It's hard to explain, but there is a fine line between OMG WOW and OMG EW.
I'm hard to please, yes, what's your point?Simone Elkeles (I can never read that name without hearing that ridiculous rap video of Perfect Chemistry in my head) only writes about over the top romances.
AND I JUST INHALE IT LIKE IT'S GODDAMN APPLE PIE.I look like a 16-year old girl with pigtails while I read her books.
Damn you Latino boys... hot, tattooed, sweet-talking, Latino boys... Now, no one is going to be good enough!
Before all else is lost and Carlos is headed for prison, in walks Kiara's family to the rescue, offering to take Carlos into their home and rehabilitate him."Rules of Attraction" follows a similar pattern of awkward friendship just like Alex and Brittany, but Kiara and Carlos blaze their own trail on the path to true love.
Bulgarian review: https://bookishipster.wordpress.com/2...The second book in the 'Perfect Chemistry' trilogy was just as lovely as the first one. Even though Carlos was a bit annoying at first and a little bit different than his brother, i still enjoyed 'Rules of Attraction' very much. I liked Carlos and Kiara's relationship, they had some really cute moments and i loved the family atmosphere in this book. It was nothing special, but still really cute and lovely.
4/5 stars  “Look at me, chica." When she does, I repeat, "Eres hermosa.""What does it mean?""You're beautiful.”   Aww!! This book was just too sweet. Angsty teens, a school mean girl, the gay best friend, first loves and the perfect homecoming... this book epitomises everything I enjoy about YA romance. It's been so long since I read Perfect Chemisty (no, really, it's been like two or three years) and I've only now finished the second book. Rules of Attraction follows Carlos, Alex's brother, in
Angsty teens, a school mean girl, the gay best friend, first loves and the perfect homecoming...
It's been so long since I read Perfect Chemisty (no, really, it's been like two or three years) and I've only now finished the second book.
Carlos has been made to move to Colorado to live with his brother, but he is determined to make it clear that he doesn't want to be there and won't act like the snobby, privileged kids at his school.
I think my favourite character (besides Carlos and Kiara) would have to be Tuck!
AHHH! This sounds even better than the first book! YES!Carlos, you smexy pie, come here, LET ME LOVE YOUUUUUUU!!!I can't believe I just said that. God, he's such a hottie stud muffin.Okay, I'm clearly still in fangirl mode, so. I'll come back later. :3
„Правилата на привличането” ме върна към онова топло чувство, което изпитвам само когато чета книга на Симон Елкелес. Въпреки наивните сцени, изпълнени с клишета за „лошото момче”, „доброто момиче”, „невъзможната любов” и т.н., книгата ме докосва с любовта, която изпълва страниците на романа – любовта към семейството, за което си готов на абсолютно всичко, любовта към приятелите, до които си винаги, в най – трудните им моменти и любовта към най – близкия ти човек, за когото си готов да дадеш живота си.Цялото ревю тук -> http://justonebooklover.blogspot.bg/2...
This series is so hot it's on fire.
“You’re dangerous.”he says.“Why?”“Because you make me believe in the impossible.” Sometimes I wish I would have started by reading this book before "Perfect chemistry" because I am sure I would have liked this one a lot better.. and indeed this book is great. I must confess that I felt in love with "Perfect Chemistry" and now it's so damn hard not to compare them, but I'll give it a try.I should start by saying that I was NOT disappointed by this book, and it was a great pleasure to read it. If
Sometimes I wish I would have started by reading this book before "Perfect chemistry" because I am sure I would have liked this one a lot better..
I must confess that I felt in love with "Perfect Chemistry" and now it's so damn hard not to compare them, but I'll give it a try.I should start by saying that I was NOT disappointed by this book, and it was a great pleasure to read it.
In the previous book the chemistry was so great (and I know that now I'm comparing them, I just can't help it) and that might be why I just felt that something was missing here.
So this might shock a few people—it surprised me—but Rules of Attraction grabbed my heart and got all of my 5 shiny stars for Kiara.Finally a main female character in a romance I could identify with, be proud of, root for, and want as my new bff!
A character that can fix and talk cars, speak her mind, stand up for herself, and pull off the perfect prank gets buckets of love from me.
:DNow do not get me wrong, Carlos and Kiara had oolala, “light-up-the-night-sky” chemistry that made this book sizzle and come to life.
That’t the way it’s been, and will always be.Carlos Fuentes moves to Colorado to live with his brother Alex for his senior year of high school.
He has been living in Mexico the last few years with his mama and little brother, but he got into a bit of trouble so here he is.
Kiara is nothing like Carlos.
Carlos- Although he started off with a bit of an attitude problem, I loved the growth of his character.
And we got more Alex and Brittany (<3 ALEX :D ) As much as I loved Carlos, Alex is still my favorite Fuentes brother...
I love Alex from Perfect Chemistry, and I admit it took me a long time to read the sequel because I'm too in love with him.
I love this book, it rocked my world, every chapter made me want for more.
At first, Carlos kind of annoyed me, it felt like he's too bad to everyone.
There are so many things to like about her, so I'm very happy that she gets to have Carlos.
Her family is so cool, especially her dad, the professor, I didn't expect that he'll play a big role here.
I think you can guess my favorite part from the book.
4.25 "What happens when I break one of your fuckin' rules" starsIt's been a long time since I've last read Perfect chemistry by Simone Elkeles, book one in  Perfect chemistry series , where we first meet the Fuentes brothers – Alejandro, Carlos and Luis, but basically the story in book 1 revolves around the oldest brother Alejandro/Alex Fuentes.But now, Carlos is getting his own story. And even though there's a certain pattern in the storyline, and one almost identical scene as it was in the pre
She's the quiet one, with only one close gay friend, she enjoys outdoors, nature, painting, and working on cars that's where she feels free and being just herself…until Carlos turns out to be the one who affects her in many ways she's not used to.
And no matter how much they fight against it, it's there, the attraction, the allure, the physical pull with an emotional twist BUT Carlos still holds himself back…especially when Kiara wants more…
Kiara, when I'm not with you I feel like life has no meaning.
Ooohhh!! Simone Elkeles posted 3 excerpts here: http://perfectchemistrythebook.com/ro...Only 4 days until release! :) I have a massive library fine now - why? Because I'm being selfish and don't want to give this one up. After reading  , I was excited about the change to a trilogy, but doubtful that one of my favorite YAs could be topped. I was pleased to be wrong - to echo a few friends who read this with me, Rules of Attraction was in a league of its own. This heroine, who wears odd clothing c
I was pleased to be wrong - to echo a few friends who read this with me, Rules of Attraction was in a league of its own.
Also, the video teaser for Rules of Attraction is pretty impressive, and not at all cheesy like the very inaccurate video for Perfect Chemistry.
Elkeles has once again given me a gorgeous, complex latino bad-boy hero to fall for in her interracial romance series, and I'm not all surprised Rules of Attraction debuted at #3 on the New York Times bestseller list, right behind my other favorite YA series, The Hunger Games trilogy (Books #1 & #2).
I think I enjoyed this more than the first book. Carlos is way more trouble than Alex was. You could tell Alex had a heart of gold from the very beginning and his bad attitude was all an act. Carlos was a good guy too, but his bad attitude was real and I think it made him really interesting and made his turnaround a bigger deal. I also really enjoyed Kiara. She was not a typical girl at all and the last person you would expect to fall for Carlos.
Each is a complete story - their connection is that each is the story of a different Fuentes brother - so you really don't need to read them in order.Carlos Fuentes, the middle brother, used to idolise his older brother Alex - until Alex got a rich white girlfriend, cut himself free of gang life in Chicago, and got a scholarship to go to university to study science.
I.Love.ALL.Simone.Elkeles.Books!!
But there are always two sides to a soul and Carlos has a side to him you wouldn't want to miss for the world.I loved Kiara right away, she's the perfect match.
I loved those parts with him and Carlos, so, so entertainingly funny!!This plot was intense, but not in the dramatic and dangerous ways that Perfect Chemistry was in.Rules of Attraction is a love story, the kind that you'll always remember with a happy smile on your face.
After reading Perfect Chemistry, I was convinced I wouldn't like the other books or other brothers near as much as I loved Alex Fuentes.
I loved this story more than Perfect Chemistry...though Alex is still my #1.
He always sees past all the bad things and believes anyone can make a difference.Carlos causes problems between Alex and Brit and gets in trouble for drug possession in school, eventhough it wasn't his.
I loved getting to see more of Alex and Brit and their relationship.
I also loved getting to see Carlos and Kiara and their blossoming relationship as well.
Very enjoyable, sweet love story.In Perfect Chemistry, Elkeles tried to start the story with the two characters, Brittany and Alex, not getting along.
With this story even though you pretty much know the two characters would end up together, it was more exciting to read about because they just did not seem to be good together at all.Carlos is very similar to Alex.
Her father is really trying to help Carlos turn his life around, but he has to want it.Overall I really liked this book.
The only thing I did not like was how similar Alex and Carlos are.
I stayed up to the wee hours of the morning because I couldn't put the book down, I had to know how it ended.
I am in love with the Fuentes brothers and can't wait to read the third book of this series.
I was quite skeptical about reading this book at first because I didn't know how Rules of Attraction could measure up to Perfect Chemistry well it exceeded my expectations.
Carlos' character was amazing, his whit and attitude was so well written and loved the banter between him and Kiara.
I could go on for hours about why someone should read this book.
