https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/730139.Gravity_and_Grace
10 metaphors Weil uses that I want to remember:1.
Weil seamlessly melds those two metaphors, creating this breathtaking sentence: “The self is only the shadow which sin and error cast by stopping the light of God.”4.
That is why joy and the sense of reality are identical.” Like the Buddhists, Weil rejects all attachments; nevertheless, she is able to conceive of a definition of love that is independent of attachment.
For Weil, pure love is simply recognition of the existence of, and the inherent value of, a person other than oneself.
the wall-between-two-prison-cells metaphor (p.
Paslaptingoji mistike Simone Weil ir jos “Sunkis ir Malone”.Skaitesi ilgai, sunkiai, bet ne be malonumo.
Tikrai zinau, kad dar grisiu prie jos, atsiversiu bet kur ir su pasimegavimu provokuosiu savo stabarejanti mastyma…Sunkiai skaitesi dar ir del to, kad knyga -chaotiska, tokia suvelta, ar tiksliau -nesusukuota.
Bet gi ji sudaryta is jos uzrasu sau, gal but manant kada nors juos parengti spaudai.
– as tik nustebes ziuriu i ja ir sakau: kaip, kokiai magijai padedant si moteris istenge taip sutvarkyti savo vidu, kad gali iveikti tai, kas mane triuskina?
Vargse mergina mirtinai nuobodziavo, bet is mandagumo bei nedrasumo neprotestavo”.
Mane uzgauna, kad jos didumas ne visu atzvilgiu funkcionuoja deramai.”
'The great sorrow of human life is knowing that to look and to eat are two different operations.''Love is not consolation. It is light.''Absolutely unmixed attention is prayer. 'Creation as god's distance, etc - In my judgment Weil was one of the most fascinating people to ever live. We're all just playing games by comparison.
En sus puntos más altos pega como Bataille, ambos comparten el tono místico/poético y radical (particularmente: la obsesión con la comunión y la distancia/soberanía).
En sus fuentes Weil va más lejos: Platón, los Upanishads, el Tao Te King.
Más lejos...
es más tierna y más brutal cuando quiere; su dios es casi todo pulsión de muerte, aniquilación del yo, la vía negativa.
La ceguera suya es la de la noche oscura del alma de San Juan de la Cruz.
Definitivamente se merece sus buenas relecturas en el futuro.
I started with "Gravity and Grace." For those also new to Weil's work I should point out this book is not a continuous narrative: it is a compilation of writings from the notebooks she entrusted to her friend Gustave Thibon before her death in 1943.
For this reason the book reads like a series of thoughts--in some cases it seems Weil is trying to reason out a complex concept for herself in much the same way an artist might doodle or a scientist might scribble down formulas.
How could we love ourselves without this motive?"I read "Gravity and Grace" from beginning to end, but it doesn't have to be consumed this way.
There is no way to review this book without coming-off as if you were too young to have read it.
I love Simone Weil for a number of reasons: she is a woman and she is a philosopher who had both her mind and intuition fully active and greatly working.
Some idiots think that philosophy is only for men and men only have the capacity for critical thinking.
Simone Weil proves them wrong.
Others think that to be philosophically minded is to be at odds with faith.
What an idiot!
Reason is a tool that the Lord created Himself and uses for His glory.
All her books have built my faith and sharpened my mind at the same time.
I must love being nothing. How horrible it would be if I were something! I must love my nothingness, love being a nothingness. (111).Like that Emily Dickinson poem? Or that Múm album?
She has less than no sentimental believe in what she refers to as "consolations." (See the quote on friendship below.) Rather, she encounters the universe as a kind of dialectic between gravity--everything that weighs us down, drawing us into a fundamentally corrupt and hypocritical social, material world--and grace, the energy that can transform suffering into....the fact that I can't finish that sentence tells you something about the elusiveness, the spiritual rigor, of Weil's thought.
Schluss!” (116)“The extreme greatness of Christianity lies in the fact that it does not seek a supernatural remedy for suffering, but a supernatural use for it.” (132)“The world, in so far as it is completely empty of God, is God himself.
Simone Weil was a Platonist Christian Jewish mystic which can make it hard to understand what she is saying if there is not much context.
But here are some of my favorites...."Attention is the rarest and purest form of generosity"“To be rooted is perhaps the most important and least recognized need of the human soul.”“There is something else which has the power to awaken us to the truth.
Iš tikro mūsų tikėjimas (ar netikėjimas - būna ir taip, tik pažvelkit į mūsų tūlą ateistą ir suprasit apie ką aš) yra vertingi tiek, kiek yra autentiški, nutolę nuo masių kanono.Daugiau nežinau, ką ir pridurti: tai yra viena viena tų knygų, nors ir rašytų neknygiškai, t.y. sau, be tikslo spausdintis, kurių klodai, - jauti tai, - dosniau atsiveria tau bręstant, todėl, manau, skaitysiu ją po 10 ar 20 metų. Visai kaip geras prancūziškas vynas, kuris palytėtas laiko tik gerėja.Žiauriai įdomios, autentiškos mintys, ir tai sako prisiekęs ateistas.
Sometimes Weil seems awfully austere. However, her work is full of soul-rearranging gems like this:"Justice. To be ever ready to admit that another person is something quite different from what we read when he is there (or when we think about him). Or rather, to read in him that he is certainly something different, perhaps something completely different from what we read in him.Every being cries out silently to be read differently."
far more satisfying than lovey dovey contemporary christianity, simone presents a horrifying image of god whose very presence annihilates our selfhood and whose love commands us to submit to his will as slaves. sometimes it is difficult to discern wisdom which is applicable to life and that which is really scary and unpleasant to think about
Deserves ten out of five stars. No, all of the stars in the universe. This medium cannot express its greatness.
One sees in certain passages, like those in which Weil likens her presence in the world to that of a "tactless" friend coming between two lovers (God and the world), why Martha Nussbaum, eager to defend passionate attachment to the world against Platonic detachment, calls some of Weil's ideas "dangerous." And yet as uncomfortable as we might find Weil's emphasis on self-effacement, solitude, and detachment, there is a moral and practical insight lurking beneath it all that is difficult to deny: "It is impossible to forgive whoever has done us harm, if that harm has lowered us.
"We should be indifferent to good and evil, but, when we are indifferent, that is to say when we project the light of our attention equally on both, the good gains the day. This phenomenon comes about automatically. There lies the essential grace. And it is the definition, the criterion of good.A divine inspiration operates infallibly, irresistibly, if we do not turn away our attention, if we do not refuse it. There is not a choice to be made in its favor, it is enough not to refuse to recognize that it exists."page 172
I both wholly agree and disagree with Weil at any given moment, which is perhaps the reception she deserves, given her stance on the necessity of contradiction as the litmus for truth/reality (with which I entirely agree, except, I guess, for when I don't). A pithy, dense read. I predict I will return to it occasionally, and find my interpretations changed, and myself changed again because of this.
Not much can be said as a review of a book like this one. It is itself the sum total of what is possible to say at all. Though it's funny that in some of her opinions she is dead-wrong, and still it doesn't get in the way.
“The work of art has an author and yet, when it is perfect, it has something which is essentially anonymous about it.
It imitates the anonymity of divine art.
Such a powerful mind, with thoughts I could fall into as if into a dark pool.“Everything without exception which is of value in me comes from somewhere other than myself, not as a gift but as a loan which must be ceaselessly renewed.
Everything without exception which is in me is absolutely valueless; and, among the gifts which have come to me from elsewhere, everything which I appropriate becomes valueless immediately I do so.”
Very nice! How much?
Her insights are often lovely. Unfortunately I'm not one for this kind of Platonic mysticism. Nevertheless some of her reflections on friendship, work, and social change are worthwhile.I wish she hadn't hated Aristotle so much...
Não se escreve com as mãos, acabam por ser o meio para um fim muito maior do que se prevê.Fiquei com a sensação agridoce de só roçar a superfície em relação a demasiadas coisas, mas acho que acaba por não ser mau.
Parece que foi guiada por uma força superior que a escolheu para entender tudo acerca de tudo.
É preciso querer aquilo que precisamente existe, ou aquilo que não pode de modo nenhum existir, ou melhor ainda, ambos.
Aquilo que é e aquilo que não pode ser estão, um e outro, fora do devir.
Pauvre Simone, je pense que je suis pas à la hauteur de lire son livre. J'ai aimé certaines parties, dépendant de mon humeur, mais j'ai pas été capable de passer par-dessus l'écriture hachurée, et les références constantes à Dieu, au fait qu'il faut dont souffrir dans la vie et qu'on est rien qu'une réflexion de Dieu. Moi, Dieu, en tout cas. Je suis quand même contente de l'avoir lu dans le cadre de mon cours, ça me fait sortir de mes horizons littéraires habituels.
One of the best philosophy/theology/aesthetics books I've ever read. I discovered this book completely by accident, through an epigraph in a book of poems. Weil's ideas about art/literature, power, social dynamics, history, and theology are grossly underrated, under-taught, and important, especially in today's various climates (social, aesthetic, and political included). They are cosmic and crystalline.
Fantastic philosopher. Jew turned Christian...died in the Holocaust anyway. "All the natural movements of the soul are controlled by laws analogous to those of physical gravity. Grace is the only exception."
Fourth reading.
This is the book I recommend. Please ignore book with similar title.
It's aight.
This collection of her thinking reads rather like a religious text in that it is organized by chapters (with subject titles); and within chapters, short strings of thought are grouped together and separated from others by a little extra white space in between.
It's like she's working out her ideas about various abstract concepts, but only in brief spurts.
the logical path from the idea to conclusion eludes me - too many details are missing, again, maybe due to #1 above.
Comecei a ler Simone Weil um pouco desavisado.
Indicações de que o livro oferecia alguma espécie de "alimento espiritual" me levaram a crer que encontraria aqui palavras reconfortantes ou ~inspiradoras.
Esqueci que o espiritual é necessariamente sofrido, e que a noite escura é uma estação obrigatória.
Simone Weil é brutal.
Vejo nesse livro uma contraparte cristã dos aforismos de Zürau, de Kafka.
Ou, como diria Kafka: Há sim esperança.Mas não para nós.
