https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/90235.The_Birth_of_Britain
I originally picked this book up because I read that Churchill was inspired by Gibbon, whose Decline and Fall is one of the most amazing works I've ever read.
Like Gibbon, Churchill's prose, while always engaging and expansive becomes, when he reaches a subject or a moment that he's particularly passionate about, epic, powerful, and moving.
In those moments you have absolutely no trouble picturing him delivering the speeches he's so famous for; thundering in front parliament or great armies, and swaying world events.
This is the first volume of a four volume history of the English-Speaking, and it covers the misty and mysterious beginnings of "Britannia" (about 55 years before Christ), up through Richard III looking for his horse at the battle of Bosworth.
(Actually, that Shakespearean detail is not in Churchill's account of the battle.) In his introduction, Churchill cautions that his history is not to be viewed as the effort of a professional historian, but is more a"personal view" on historical matters he finds significant.
Not being a professional does allow Churchill to emphasize historical moments that might not seem as important in other histories.
A HISTORY OF THE ENGLISH SPEAKING PEOPLES: Volume 1: The Birth of Britain. (1956; this ed. 2003, The Folio Society). Sir Winston Churchill. ****. I first read this volume of the four-volume history when I first joined the Book-of-the-Month-Club in 1960. It was a freebie for joining. Back then, I was really ambitious and read all four volumes straight through. Now, I plan to only read this volume to remind me of the taste of Sir Winston’s prose. In all, it’s a basic work that should be on every h
I first read this volume of the four-volume history when I first joined the Book-of-the-Month-Club in 1960.
Now, I plan to only read this volume to remind me of the taste of Sir Winston’s prose.
Lots of stuff is left out, probably because Sir Winston thought it was boring.
He always had this comment about English history: “There’s just too much of it.” This first volume covers the time from the Roman conquest up to Richard III.
The early history is covered much like that in “1066 And All That,” – an excellent book if you haven’t read it.
Most of the text summarizes the reigns of the known British rulers prior to the Norman Conquest and expansively retells the activities of later English monarchs.
This deficit occasionally compels the reader into a false perception that entire centuries of British history were a rather monochromatic saga solely defined by monarchs and struggles for the crown and French territory.Perhaps not obvious about Churchill’s character, these pages indicate a fascination for the legend of King Arthur and deep respect for the leadership of France’s Joan of Arc. Separately, Churchill employed the term “race,” which he perceived not as a question of skin color, but one of nationality, culture, and language.
(Fiction mainly pisses me off when the author can actually write, and then decides to write endlessly about his sexual dysfunction, D H LAWRENCE.) This is probably because I choose to read nonfiction by alive people, instead of awesome people from the greatest generation, who are awesome and not stupid, and love their subject and write vigorously on it, and who are, in short, Winston Churchill, whom I think I fell in love with between paragraphs three and four.The Romans are invading Britain, and I'm crying because it's so good.
This is sweeping national history told with verve and dash.
It is as much an insight into Churchill as it is into Britain's past.
One forgets that this inspiring orator, proud statesman and defender of the realm was also a great writer who spent the "alone" years before World War II drafting this history of the English-speaking peoples.
Churchill's Latinate prose recalls Gibbon, but his own striking personality shines through in passage after passage.
"The Second World War" may be his most important work, but stylistically he could just as easily have received the Nobel Prize for Literature for this great history.
4.0 stars.In reference to the period of the Roman invasion to Britain and the following invasions of saxxons,  vikings and normans up to the end of 12th century, I have been looking for trustworthy and summarized information  about this period.So far, I have read confusing and contradicting informatión.W. Churchil was an acute politician and  a formidable strategist in warfares and I thought he might be a reliable source of information and facts.Reading this book, certainly clarified many misinformation and knowledge I had.
The Intrigues and events that followed in this period of british histiry, reminded me the books of Games of Throne of GRR Martín.
In my mind, Churchill is so strongly associated with World War II, that though I know he was a historian, I imagined his historical prose would sound like the radio broadcast addresses he made to rally the nation of Britain during the war.
Churchill is comprehensive in his coverage, easy to read and generous with interesting details and connections.This volume is the first in Churchill's comprehensive History of the English Speaking People.
This volume contains three books which cover Roman Britain, the age of the Anglo-Saxon Kings and Vikings and finally, the medieval kings of England.
This is a beautifully written popular history of England from Roman times to the end of the end of the War of the Roses. The last half of the book is pretty much all about court intrigue and problems of royal succession. The primary value of the book is Churchill's explanation of English character based on various historical trends. For example, English political behaviors and love of liberty can be traced to a landed class of Danish warriors that settled most the country in the 9th Century.
printed 1956...Narrated by Christian Rodska 2006 17 hours.Read at least book one in College. I will remember when I finish the audio versions of what I originally read/ My favorite Professor who had such wonderful courses as Rebels, Robbers and Rogues! His best courses were summer and winter break, Since I didn't have anywhere to go, it was always easier to stay at school, and got to take all of his fun courses. One of those was a history of England based on these writings.
Like other histories they have been overtaken by events - much of the writing on Saxon England has been overturned by new research - and when one looks at, for example, the handling of Edward II they definitely display a judgemental attitude which jars with modern sensibilities (particularly when you contrast Edward's treatment with that of Joan of Arc).
Whilst it would be unreasonable to expect a whole book to be written with the rhetorical flourish of the great man's speeches, much of the writing is elegant rather than functional, making it a joy to read.This first volume spans from prehistory to the Battle of Bosworth and is thus rather more affected by the march of historical change than later installments.
As with all history, there were bits of this that were fascinating and so well told. And there were bits that, for me at least, became too bogged down in details and lost my interest.But the parts that were interesting and well-told were extraordinary, insightful, and almost lyrical. Some Favorite Quotes: it is the primary right of men to die and kill for the land they live inWe walk with shorter paces, but on firmer footholds.It is all true, or it ought to be; and more and better besides.Art an
As with all history, there were bits of this that were fascinating and so well told.
Some Favorite Quotes:
it is the primary right of men to die and kill for the land they live inWe walk with shorter paces, but on firmer footholds.It is all true, or it ought to be; and more and better besides.Art and culture grew in the track of order.a treachery to which all adjectives are unequalThus from the ground does freedom raise itself unconquerable.It was a cry of pain and anger from a generation shaken out of submissiveness by changes in their lot, which gave rise alike to new hope and new injustice.But Death drew his scythe across these prospects.
He makes it come alive.
The books is written by a person who clearly understands the historical events and people behind them, with all their qualities of character, mind and soul.
The chapter about the War of The Roses is written like a movie script - with lots of verbs and characters and very little discription - which is a proof of just how personal Churchil takes the whole book.Once I started reading it, I couldn't put the book down.
Every man who wants to understand Britain, especially after Brexit and who wants to see the foundations of western culture and literature must read this book.
Long and tedious reading, yet undoubtedly as accurate as is possible considering the time span.Churchill is thorough and insightful as a student of history. He explains the true nature of the wars made famous and romanticised in English literature. No wonder Churchill had such a hard time getting the British Parliament to take his warnings seriously about the rise of Nazis. Churchill was too bluntly honest to soften what he recognised as truth.
I decided I would try to read some non-fiction every day and treat it like a school course,and I began with this.
I read 10 pages at a minimum a day while also reading some fiction and my book club books.
The book begins in 55 BC with the Roman invasions of Britain, and goes through Roman colonization, Viking raids, the House of Wessex, the Norman invasion and the Plantagenets (I finally understand the 100 years war with France, the refusal to give up French lands, particularly Aquitaine), and then the war of the Roses and the final end of the Plantagenets with horrible Richard the II at Bosworth Field (and of course, the little boys in the tower-what a monster he was).
The Birth of Britain covers the most storied aspect of British and English history, beginning with the invasion of the island by Rome and continuing to the end of the Hundred Years War. We begin, then, with an island at the "end of the world" being invaded and connected to continental civilization, and developing through until at the end of the long conflict with France, England is again its own sceptered isle, left to chart its own course.
Not surprising given that Churchhill researched and wrote this amid the anticipation and then memory of World War 2, antagonism toward England's favorite enemy, France, is minimal, and Joan of Arc is celebrated just as Boudica is.
I think partially because my year abroad made me appreciate the history of English speaking cultures, but also because I was schocked to find out that Churchill was a hell of a writer.
Churchill tells the story in a very digestible and accessible way.
The most interesting parts are those that detail the genesis of the greatest contributions of English culture to the world: common law, the Magna Carta, and parliamentary government.
It makes it clear that the world was a few historical coincidences away from being deprived of these enormous revolutions in human organization and law.
Churchill is well known in history as a masterful politician who led Great Britain through the Second World War. He is also, however, a Noble Prize winning author.
His first volume in his series on the history of Great Britain and its people cover the coming of Caesar to the shores of Albion to the victory of the Earl of Richmond (Henry Tudor) over Richard III ending the Plantagenet dynasty.
While he may lack some of the academic rigour that would be expected of a historian today, and often glosses over certain details without attempting to analyze them or explain, he gives a brilliant overview of a confusing period in British history that I would encourage everyone to read.
A momentous and surprising book.
I was not expecting to enjoy this epic as much as I did.
Doubtless there are savage critiques of his method and substance lurking somewhere - but what a readable and living history to savour.
I could imagine that this early narrative that takes us from pre-history through to the beginnings of Henry VIII reign would humble the average Briton with it's tales of intrigue and savagery.
A fantastic book - and when I have another month to spare it will be on to the next in the series.
The book begins in the mist of legends and tells the very detailed history of just exactly who the British people descend from in the scope of what invading force landed on the island, what outside rule they lived under, and how these invasions became settled landowners, farmers, townspeople, and nobility.
This first book in a set of four naturally tells the many stories of the leaders of the island nation, beginning with Alfred the Great, and going through Richard III.
There is an index, but most of the history is told from the perspective of the author, without all the footnotes and references to his sources.
A detailed and enjoyable history covering a period from the time of Julius Caesar in 55 BC to the accession of the Tudors to the throne in 1485.
Churchill's style and prose has been commented on and acclaimed many times, so I don't need to elaborate on it again.
Suffice it to close with the following quote, proved timeless by current events:"A modern dictator with the resources of science at his disposal can easily lead the public on from day to day, destroying all persistency of thought and aim, so that memory is blurred by the multiplicity of daily news and judgment baffled by its perversion." The Birth of Britain by Winston S.
This is an even paced and yet sweeping narrative of the formative years in Britain, up to the death of Richard III.
One does not need an extensive knowledge of Britain’s history to understand or enjoy this book.
However, having read all of Bernard Cornwell’s Saxon Series, seen all of Shakespeare’s plays, and taken guided tours all over the British Isles means that The Birth of Britain for me is a comprehensive yet concise explanation of that history.
This book is a unifying thread.

The history of the world is a history of conflict. War after war. Betrayal after betrayal. Hundreds of years of it. I am continually amazed at the corruption that power brings and it’s ill effects continue on and on for generations.“We have learned by sad experience that it is the nature and disposition of almost all men, as soon as they get a little authority, as they suppose, they will immediately begin to exercise unrighteous dominion.” (D&C 121:39)
Very good book. It is so impressive that Churchill wrote this. I would have expected the author would be a life-long historian. This book devours the history of the British Isle from something like 500 b.c.e. To the end of the Plantagenets. It is very well written and incredibly interesting. It is not dryly written either, but told in an informative but witty manner.there are a total of four volumes in this series. All written after WWII. This is a must read.
Volume One is very good and informative history of the birth of britain especially after the Romans left. The evolution of the English constitutional system and its democratic principles are highlighted leading to the creation of the constitutional monarchy and the concept of limited government which are Britain's lasting legacy to the world.
A great read !Covering the time period up to 1500, Churchill chronicles the beginning of Great Britain in this first of four volumes. Grand and majestic sentences plus great insights into human nature highlight this tale of intrigue, ambition, jealousy, tragedy, and carnage, as slow step by slow step a unified nation state evolves
Esperaba algo diferente, el libro en muy buena parte se trata de historiografía,... el primo mato al rey que era el sobrino...Esperaba la visión de un estadista y es casi una leccion de genealogia real britanica...
A unique style of writing which was initially difficult to read but highly eloquent and once adjusted to led to a fascinating read which brought the characters and history alive. It has to be said however that the obvious bias and rascism towards others is jarring at times.
