https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/807695.Men_Like_Gods
They were no better than propaganda rags.’This claim especially seems appropriate to some of today’s media outlets.What you won’t see in this novel is a detailed description of how the civilization in this alternate universe got from something like early Twentieth Century Earth to a free and peaceful utopia, although the process is said to have taken three thousand years.
They were able to work together to build a better society in which each individual is free to think, act, and explore the mysteries of the world as they wish.I won’t say the utopia presented here is exactly one that I would imagine or hope for, but it does seem attractive and maybe even possible.
For some reason, this book is particularly difficult to locate. But it's definitely worth the effort. It's a marvelous treatment of the Utopian world. Now, I love Wells, and if you're on this page, I imagine you do also. Advice: Get the book! It will make you happier! All of your dreams will come true! Well, at least the first two will happen.
ومن هنا يبدأ ويلز ما أراد أن يقوله حقًا.في خلال أحداث الرواية يضع ويلز نصائحه التي يرى أن العالم سيكون أكثر مثالية لو طُبقت، نصائح للتعليم، والاقتصاد مثلا.
أو لنكون أدق، بين العلم وممثلي الدين.«ولو كان الله يريد لنا أن نحصل على هذه الأمصال والخمائر في أجسامنا، فقد كان بمقدوره أن يجعلها تتكون داخلنا طبيعيًا بدلا من حقننا بها».ويضع ويلز المبادئ الخمسة للحرية والتي بدونها يستحيل قيام أي حضارة، وهي باختصار:١- حفظ خصوصية الأفراد التي يأتمن عليها المؤسسات.٢- حرية الحركة والتنقل.٣- مبدأ المعرفة الشاملة غير المحدودة.٤- الكذب يعتبر الجريمة العظمى.٥- حرية المناقشة والنقد.استخدم ويلز كذلك بعض المصطلحات العلمية لخدمة أحداث الرواية، مثل الأبعاد الأربعة والنسبية العامة، والعوالم المتوازية.بل توقع شكلا من أشكال البريد الصوتي، أو البريد الإلكتروني.ونذكر بأن الرواية كُتبت في عام ١٩٢٣.
ازدهار الغروب».وربما كان اهتمام ويلز الأكبر هو طرح هذه الأسئلة خلال أحداث الرواية إضافة لتقديم رؤيته للوصول للمدينة الفاضلة.
This 1923 H.G. Wells novel is as much a tract in defense of socialist ideals as it is a work of science fiction.
This is not his only work in which socialism is posited as a path to utopia, but if Wells seems overly zealous, unabashed, and, from our perspective, naive, we should probably cut him some slack.
He uses the device of parallel universes to transport a group of people from Earth, circa 1923, to a similar, but not identical, planet in a parallel universe, which they refer to as Utopia.
The book should be required reading for everyone on this planet.
I can understand how someone can be put off my the socialist rhetoric of the book but one must delve deeper into the mans thought process.
The book reads like a prophecy for the future.
How one day we will be free from bondage of labor to sustain ourselves, free from religious dogmas who's very foundation is shame and guilt for doing what is only natural, free from societies pressure to conform so the machine of capitalism can run smoothly.One day we will be men like gods
قليلة هي الكتب التي تثير في نفسك التساؤلاتالرواية من حيث التفاصيل و الشخصيات بسيطة للغاية و ليس فيها شيء مميزلكن كما أسلفت، ان روعتها هي في التساؤلات و التفكير الذي سوف يستغرقك في تخيل شكل مستقبل الانسانيةهل من حق الانسان القضاء على سلالات الذباب لمجرد انه ليس له اي فائدة تذكر (اللهم الا نقل الميكروبات و الأمراض) ؟ التطور العلمي يجب أن يكون مشتمل على فلسفة و أخلاقياتويلز سبق عصره في التلميح الى نظام اجتماعي جديد غير تحكم العملة و النقود.
نظام يبشر بعدالة مطلقة من حيث توزيع الموارد بالتساوي على الناس...
ويلز هو واحد من رواد أدب الخيال العلمي ومن أهم الكتاب اللي تخصصوا في نوع الأدب المستقبلي سواء كان في
While the narrative isn't a continuation, Wells returns to the themes laid out in the earlier novel, using the device of modern men being flung across dimensions to a more advanced utopian world as a way to reveal and rebut various challenges to the vision of society he aims for.
This more realistic approach helps to make the society more palatable, and generally we see a richer presentation of Wells' vision, with complexities of organisation and origination that hadn't been addressed previously being described.Each of the dimension-hoppers brought to Utopia (bar perhaps the central figure, a world-weary editor) raises a challenge to the society - doing so either explicitly in an address to the Utopian population, or implicitly by their actions - which is then rebuffed by the narrative or the addressed Utopians.
عالم يوتوبي فيه البشر قد وصلوا لقمة التقدم..
حيث لا مرض ولا فقر و لا حرب..
ببساطة هي رؤية ويلز لما يجب أن يكون عليه العالمالرواية لا تعتمد علي الإسلوب السردي و الحبكة الدرامية للروايات التقليدية..
و لكنها تعتمد أكثر علي المونولوج الدائر في عقل بطل الرواية الأرضي الذي ينبهر بهذا العالم..
أو تعتمد علي الديالوج بين هذا البطل و أحد أعضاء عالم اليوتوبيا حيث نجد مقارنة بين ما عليه الأرض و ما يجب أن تكون عليه..
ولكنه كذلك مجتمع أناركي حيث لا حكومة ولا سلطة..
..ولكن بارنستابل لن يكن وحده من وجد نفسه فى هذا العالم فلقد سبقته مجموعتان من البشر وتبدأ المغامرة فى ذلك العالم السحرى بحوارات مبسطة بين الشخصيات لشرح فلسفة أفلاطون وتحتدم الأحداث عندما يحاول البشريين السيطرة على ذلك العالم ولكن بارنستابل يعارضهم وتستمر الأحداث حتى النهاية حتى العودة مرة أخرى من تلك الرحلة التى غيرت بارنستابل إلى الأبد.
..السرد مكانش بمستوى فكرة الرواية وخيال ويلز الرائع ربما يكون السبب فى الترجمة للرواية أو أن الرواية الأصلية كانت تعانى من نفس المشكلة ولكن فى النهاية انه عمل مبسط بفكرة جيدة عن الفلسفة التقييم النهائي 3 نجوم من 5
قليلة هي الكتب التي تثير في نفسك التساؤلاتالرواية من حيث التفاصيل و الشخصيات بسيطة للغاية و ليس فيها شيء مميزلكن كما أسلفت، ان روعتها هي في التساؤلات و التفكير الذي سوف يستغرقك في تخيل شكل مستقبل الانسانيةهل من حق الانسان القضاء على سلالات الذباب لمجرد انه ليس له اي فائدة تذكر (اللهم الا نقل الميكروبات و الأمراض) ؟ التطور العلمي يجب أن يكون مشتمل على فلسفة و أخلاقياتويلز سبق عصره في التلميح الى نظام اجتماعي جديد غير تحكم العملة و النقود.
نظام يبشر بعدالة مطلقة من حيث توزيع الموارد بالتساوي على الناس...
As far as I remember, this was my first Utopian fiction and I can say I am amazed and wishing more, for the world that I want to live is now Utopia.PS: the Kindle version that I read is in a very archaic English, which made the reading and story even more delightful.A glimpse of how Utopia was achieved:"Every Utopian child is taught to the full measure of its possibilities and directed to the work that is indicated by its desires and capacity.It grows up under perfectly healthy conditions; its natural impulses to play and learn are gratified by the subtlest educational methods; hands, eyes and limbs are given every opportunity of training and growth; it learns to draw, write, express itself, use a great variety of symbols to assist and extend its thought.
Excellent ideas that are far ahead of the time of writing the book, but the style of writing is lacking. Now I understand what Henry James meant when he said that he would have liked to rewrite some of Wells's novels.By proclaiming the ideas to be excellent, I do not mean that I agree with all of them. They are novel ideas, but I find some of them quite difficult to accept, and some others very repulsing (the author's attitude towards the natural environment was revolting, for example).
For those who likes or want to read about Utopia, it is a very good choice. I like to read fiction but this book I was reading not because of fiction ideas. I would love to have it in school and be able to discuss it back that days. Can definitely recommend - this Utopia story.
This was interesting but ended rather abruptly.
Not a bad book, per se, I just have a hard time with Wells. The story is brilliant, but his writing style makes it hard to stay involved in.
The problem with utopian litterature is that even though Wells do his best to write a stories it turns out as a series of lectures on how awsome everything is.
Oto pan Barnstaple, prosty dziennikarz, podczas wakacyjnej podróży samochodem trafia, wraz z grupką kilku przypadkowych Ziemian, do alternatywnej rzeczywistości, w gruncie rzeczy niewiele oddalonej od naszego świata.Nie ma komarów, pokrzyw, chorób, wojen, parlamentów, granic, wszyscy „obywatele” (bo i to pojęcie uległo w Utopii przeobrażeniu) są młodzi, piękni, równi, uzdolnieni i wyzwoleni seksualnie.
Były to szerokie, gładkie, niezniszczalne szosy, wznoszące się i opadające, stosownie do łagodnego falowania terenu (…)Jakby na Ziemi wszyscy, przepraszam za określenie, srali i wystawiali ołtarze… A Barnstaple’a nikt „tam” nigdy nie zaakceptuje, na zawsze pozostałby niechcianym podrzutkiem.Czy Wells zatem napisał książkę słabą, nieudaną?
A fine novel presenting a mirrored view of humanity through the reflection of an ideal world.
In this book Wells pits his earthly characters as infectious agents in an advanced civilisation that has itself progressed beyond what they refer to as 'The Age of Confusion", this age of confusion is a reference to earthly politics, social moors, sex, religion, education, industrialisation, and capitalism, to name a few of the more discussed references in the novel.
Towards the end of his career, Wells write this book, in which he outlined his vision of Utopia.
While a lot of the details are very sketchy and vague, Wells' vision is more about what isn't there than what is, and for a book written in 1922, showed a certain amount of daring.
By clearly condemning many of the archaic and entrenched institutions of our world, Wells may have been revealing a certain amount of naivete, but it's still a valid and fascinating world to dwell in for 325 pages.
بمقارنة على شكل رواية بين العالم البشري والعالم اليوتوبي ينتقل بها مجموعة من البشر عن طريق الصدفة إلى عالم موازي من اليوتوبيا.يحاول الكاتب أن يطرح جمال اليوتوبيا بخلوها من الغرائز البشرية التي تخرجه عنه طوره والتي تجعله في صراع مستمر وركض نحو لقمة الحياة وحاجاته.
في ذلك العالم الذي يبدو متقدماً جداً لخلوه من الأمراض والاتجاه نحو تحسين النسل وعيش الأفضل ..
يبدو ضعيفاً جداً نحو المقاومة والسعي نحو العيش والحياة.
في لمسة وإشارة إلى "حيوانية" البشر في أساساهم ودفقها في العالم اليوتوبي وكيف ينظر كل منهم للآخر.يظهر ميل للكاتب نحو العالم اليوتوبي في كثير من الأحيان ..
I was iffy about this at the beginning but I ended up really appreciating the story of a man thrust into a Utopian future. Ultimately, I think it was about the despair Wells felt at the end of WWI when whatever hopes he had for the future were disappointed. And yet, it is filled with his optimism and determination that education and science could create a perfect society. Goofy and profound, in its way.
I'm always a sucker for a utopian book, and I felt this one was a pretty good one but didn't really stand out from the crowd.On the plus point the writing was very often humourus, the main character (Mr. Barnstaple) was incredibly likeable and the utopia was illustrated with such colour and detail, I felt too much focus on the politics of the 1920's (time it was wrote) kept me tuning out of a other wise wonderful storyline.
As early SF, it may be Wells's best contribution. Like many Utopias, though, it rather turns on whether you accept the socialist proposal that social ills can be cured by the judicious application of the findings of psychiatry, that a refusal to conform is a pathology to be cured. At one point, one of the Utopians explains that the mind doctor takes the place of the policeman. "I should prefer the policeman," responds one of the characters.And so should I.
Great book, unravelling the joys of a successfully socialist world. Combining an engaging plot with thought provoking questions about a Marxist utopia. Interesting to read after reading Brave New World. Indeed, Huxley's response is the more realist perspective on Wells' vision of utopian happiness. First H. G. Wells book read, and will sure read many more.
Men Like Gods is a great piece of literature, it reflects the brutal reality of human nature, and leaves hope for a brighter future of mankind, the story is told through an exciting science-fiction tale that will leave you astonished.I really enjoyed the book and could relate myself to the protagonist, much recommended!
A very utopic Utopia. This book is not particularly fast paced or action packed, but the descriptions of the state of society in Utopia and their contrast to the way things are on Earth were intriguing. Funny how over 80 years from the time the book was written, Earth is no closer to Utopia than it was in 1923...
Wells was a true visionary. "The transmission is wireless" ! 1922? Yes, Mr. Wells, the transmission IS wireless! This novel resonates in so many ways today. Though Wells' idea of Utopia continues to be light-years away....perhaps happening elsewhere in another dimension of the Universe?
Frankly, I chose this book for my utopia/dystopia course because it is the shortest of Wells's many utopias. It taught well but wasn't a big winner with the students - in part perhaps utopia burnout, in part b/c Wells is not big on character development.
لم تعجبني على الإطلاق
