https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10800916-awake-at-dawn
Everything I loved about Born at Midnight was present in Awake at Dawn.
Awake at dawn is a delightful read with a plot full of twists and turns, genuine emotions that reach your heart and make you helpless against loving the characters.
No character is unnecessary, each and every one of them plays a major role in Kylie's life (positive and negative).
And just as I was set on wanting Derek and Kylie together, C.C. Hunter added Lucas and his charmingly honest personality to the mix, leaving me yet again undecided about the love issue.Without a doubt, Awake at Dawn is worth buying, reading and displaying it on your bookshelf.
Brilliant sequel.I AM SOOOOOOO TEAM DEREK!!!!!UCH LUCAS CAN GET STUFFED. NORMALLY IM ALL FOR THE WEREWOLVES. BUT LUCAS... I JUST CAN'T. DEREK IS TOO HOT.PLEASE, PLEASE, PLEASE, DONT BE STUPID KYLIE AND PICK DEREK, FOR GODS SAKE. I thought we'd finally find out what Kylie truly is in this installment... So it kinda dragged a bit and got a tad frustrating but next time maybe eh?
May 10 2016Can't stop won't stop I seriously love this series!!July 16 2016Awesome sequel!!! These books I don't even know what about them but I just go through them so fast!! They are funny and even at some points I was crying just in love!!! Only complaint is that for certain parts it's very predictable
Well, I won't be continuing this series. The issues I had with the first book, became even more glaring in Awake at Dawn. My main two issues were -✮ The pace seemed to drag even more.   "....I mean, if I understand this right, someone is going to die. Actually die and it’s not going to be an easy death, either.” All the problems in Kylie’s life started bouncing around her head like ping-pong balls. Tears filled her eyes. It still hurt to think about her grandmother’s funeral—she couldn’t lose so
The issues I had with the first book, became even more glaring in Awake at Dawn.
My main two issues were -✮ The pace seemed to drag even more.
So by the end of the book, there was definitely a clear winner.
I'm not a fan of love triangles being stretched out, and this one definitely was.I usually don't stop in the middle of a series, I can be a little neurotic and need to know how it all ends.
And what I saw definitely solidified my reason to stop this series now.
All my issues kept appearing in the next few books.
I liked the writing, and even though Kylie was boring sometimes, it was still enjoyable.
I hoped that, in Awake at Dawn, those things would develop, and we'd get to know a lot more about Shadow Falls.
Well, to start with, Kylie doesn't know what she is.
And, of course, when Lucas comes back, her whole frame shakes and her pulse speeds up at the sight of him, while at the same time, she tries to fall in love with Derek.
One of the things I liked about Awake at Dawn, though, was Kylie's relationship with her mother.
While I loved every minute he was in this book, I would like more, lots and lots more!!Awake at Dawn is a fantastic sequel.
Its just a fun new series with an amazing set of characters, one hot werewolf (okay the fairy is too, lol) and lots of mystery.
Then there is her two boys, sensitive and loveable fairy Derek, then hot and mysterious Lucas who will have you totally teaming them up.
Lets just say if you like a fun supernatural read with an awesome set of characters and a story that keeps you guessing, well you are going to love Awake at Dawn!
3,5 stars / 5.This sequel was far more interesting than the first "Shadow Falls" novel; especially in the beginning.
But in the middle it was just a long process where little concrete things were happening.Kylie Galen met another ghost now, a woman.
One that kept telling Kylie that someone dear to her will die soon and that she has to save that person.
We can see her throughout the novel growing; her body, at least.
But overall, it was a good read, and let me tell you, that ending...There were things that I didn't fully understood, but they don't affect me liking the book too much.
I need some hawt Lucas and Kylie scenes ASAP!
Almost 400 pages and the only thing that pretty much happened was her breastestes mysteriously grew a cup size.
We are back in Shadow Falls with Kylie, her great friends, the boys and the camp leaders.
In Awake at Dawn friendships and relationships, that have been formed in Born At Midnight grow deeper and more meaningful and I loved seeing this.
I still love Lucas (a lot!!) but now, I'm torn between those two hot boys, just like Kylie...
I also very much love the deep connection she has with Holiday the Camp leader.
Awake at Dawn was full of growing relationships, friendships, love and romance.
5 Stars  Awake at Dawn picks up where BaM leaves off with many more questions, a whole new ghost and reeling from the last eat drama which is also what AaD leaves us at the end as well.
Kylie is going through more supernatural changes whilst mending her relationships with her parents and trying to decide between Derek and Lucas (what a dilemma to have!).We’ve been introduced to the main villain of the series now - finally And Kylie is getting closer and closer to finding out what she is and her birth father’s family.
Also there’s more sexual tension between Miranda and Perry plus Holiday and Burnett.
I'm really enjoying this series! It's very addicting. This was a great sequel but it wasn't as good as the first book. Lucas Parker, you stole my heart! I love him so much!! I can't wait to read the third book! :) Read my full review here http://booknerd777.blogspot.com/2017/...
“Life isn't supposed to be easy. Generally speaking, the harder something is the more rewarding the results will be.”   This is one of series that seem to get better with each book. I am glad I decided to read this one.In this book a new ghost starts to visit Kylie and warns her that someone she loves will die soon, but Kylie does not understand whom she has to save. Moreover, there is the problem with vampire attacks and her supernatural identity. The hints are all contradictory and Kylie is m
The hints are all contradictory and Kylie is more and more confused.
The boy-problem seems rather harmless in comparison with the ghost and the vampire attacks, but all of these problems really bother Kylie.
She is like an angel of peace, who helps Holiday and Della and Miranda with their problems and does not bother anyone with her own worries.
They are worth Kylie, together they are a real dream-team when Miranda and Della don't fight.
I honestly do like this book much more than the first one thanks to all the surprises and turning points and contradictory hints and feelings the characters have.
Though I still prefer the first book.It's still funny and adventurous and full of teen dramas....
which gets a bit annoying at times.
Kylie is still trying to discover what she is.
She's still confused with her feelings for Derek and Lucas but decided to give Derek a chance.
And I must agree with Lucas, Derek is an idiot.
Derek is patient and understanding guy BUT what the hell was he thinking?!?
As for Lucas I'm getting fond of him after Derek's stupid decision.
It's easy to connect with Kylie and the book is always on the go.
I give this one a 3.6, meaning I really got into it despite there being things about it I didn't care for.*full review to come*
Caught between a half fae with a kind heart and a mysterious werewolf she shares a past with, Kylie must figure out what is going on and who she chooses.
Kylie was such a better character in this book compared to the first!
In the first book her mother was portrayed as not the best mother, but I loved seeing the two build this new and enjoyable relationship.
Kylie developed quite a few new powers and abilities in this book and I loved seeing her wholeheartedly accept that she is supernatural in some way.
Loved it!I liked the story and the characters so much!
I didn't even care about the love triangle!
OK, I have to admit that for some reason I prefer Lucas (he's more mysterious) from Derek (he's just a nice guy).
Kylie is a very interesting character!
She is a good and true friend, smart and funny and a typical teenager.
I was happy to see that she has a better relationship with her mother because I have to admit that I like her mother a lot!Also, I really like Della and Miranda and I hope to see Miranda with Perry!
The protagonist Kylie Galen still isn’t able to figure out what type of supernatural creature she is and she is determined to find out.
Although she might just look like a teenage girl on the outside the power she holds within her is far stronger than anyone in the camp.
I feel like because she was able to accept who she is her powers began to show more frequently.
I really like her character, strong and protective, but I think she needs to just be a teenage girl and worry less about her powers and more about her life with friends and family.
There were also a few times that Hunter added words into Kylie’s vocabulary or made her say things in a way that I don’t think matched her usual voice or style.
I’m sure a teenaged girl would love all the supernatural characters and reading about their different abilities and such, I did.
I am curious to find out what Kylie is, although right now it feels like Hunter is making up a character that isn’t realistic not even in this paranormal world because of her little-bit-of-everything status.
It was fun, easy to read, had some nice friendships and an improving mother/daughter relationship.
Some of the imagery was beautiful, for example "Kylie popped up from her chair and shot out of the dining room like someone wearing white and in desperate need of a tampon."......Jokes aside, it wasn't terrible.
There was far too much relationship drama and if we don't find out what Kylie actually is by the end of the next book, I can see myself becoming rather irked.
OH my goodness I LOVE this cover<333 I can't wait for this book!
Come quickly!!!
<3 ______________Fantastic sequel!
I loved every part it.
I loved discovering what Kylie was discovering, feeling what Kylie felt, and watching her grow.
I have to admit, boy wise, I was Team Lucas after Born At Midnight.
But, now, after Awake At Dawn, I am kind of split.
Derek is just the all around great guy, with sexy green eyes and then there's also Lucas who you can't help but loving.
But I do know, I cannot wait for the next one...
I'm dying to know what happens next!
We discover more about Kylie's abilities in this one, which makes things more interesting, but also a little unbelievable. It did get a little tiring that it was so obvious what the ghost wanted her to do, but she was so obtuse about it. These books are a good escape read. If you can get past things being a little predictable, and the sex-shaming, they do have some fun elements.
My REVIEW - http://readingadd.blogspot.com/2015/0...
Loved it. Derek is amazing and I really like Burnett and Holiday. They are so funny togheter. Can't wait to read Taken at Dusk.
I give this book a solid 4 [yes I've been watching too many cooking competitions lately] I enjoyed this book just like I did the first one. I believe all teenagers should read this series because it deals with a lot of teen stuff and gives very wise advice. I also like the emphasis it places on friends and family. I guessed who was to be saved from the very beginning I just didn't know from what, so that part was slightly boring. But, the kick ass part of the book was good.
But, she's getting there.
I love her getting closer with Miranda and Della.
They have a very authentic teen girls at camp getting becoming friends thing going on, with all the insecurity and vulnerability that goes with that.
Add in the varied types of paranormal they are and they're different personalities and it makes for some great interactions.I had my suspicions about what was going on so I wasn't completely shocked, but it was a great experience regardless.The Bad: At this point, the love triangle is unnecessary.
Maybe it becomes important down the line, but right now it seems as though it's just one more thing distracting Kylie from figuring out what she is and what that means for her.
This second book was totally better than the first one (even though I missed Lucas during half of the book).
One thing I didn't like is how she always holds herself back with the boys.
I'm not telling her to throw herself at them either, but she holds back too much (which explain the Derek situation at the end).
The two of them finally started to bond and it's just wonderful!!Overall, this book was really entertaining and I look forward to read the next book in the series!Also, omg spoilers: I so ship Holiday and Brunett
I liked this book, but not as much as the first.
It was still fun and I, of course, still love CC's writing.
As far as the boys I am definitely liking Derek, but I really seem to be in the minority it seems based on some reading I did on her blog.
Most of her fans love Lucas.
I just like Derek more :pAs in the first book I find the friends to be the main reason I enjoy this book.
I absolutely love Miranda and Della.
I love this series. It just works for me. The whole "growth spurt" thing had me rolling my eyes though. What's that? You woke up with bigger boobs, longer hair and are a couple of inches taller? Your milkshake is now bringing all the boys to the yard? The struggle is real.  I do hope that mystery is solved in the next book before a J-Lo butt is thrown in. Other than that, it was a great book, and I can't wait to start the next one.
I remember liking the first book well enough to make a note to read this second one. But... why??? I can 't remember why I liked it enough to do so now. I pretty much skimmed through this book because I found myself losing interest really early on and zoning out. I just couldn't get into the characters, I just couldn't care about the plot, and I just couldn't stay focused on what was happening because it was all ridiculous roll-your-eyes teenaged angst. Sorry, I gave this book a shot but I'm not going to bother with the third. Pass.
