https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17744.The_Visual_Display_of_Quantitative_Information
I'm lucky that I got an undeserved merit for drawing an unsolicited graph in my first month of high school, because since that day I've been totally freaky for a nice chart (these two pictures are from my own lab book, not the text).
Tufte points out that while graphical sophistication is usually low in news publications, journals and text books, the text sophistication is high, sometimes requiring expert knowledge!Many data sets are better presented in a well-organised table than in a drawing.
Tufte follows this principle in presenting data on graphical sophistication and data density, and in showing his commissioned designs.
I read this book because 1) as a scientist, I care a lot about visualizing information in ways that are both meaningful and attractive, and 2) this book is hailed as a classic and cited by many when discussing what constitutes a good graphic.
There are some positives: a few inspiring examples of creative, precise designs that tell a story and reveal insights about the data.
Some of the negative examples (graphs that exaggerate or obscure the data, or that are heavy-handed and ugly) are also useful to think about, and are occasionally very funny.
Many of the axioms that Tufte proposes for graphics could equally well apply to writing.
I've read this previously, but I was reminded of it again when someone brought up the ink/information ratio. It's vital for anybody in science, research, or business, anybody who has to make presentations or write reports or analyze data, and is an antidote to years of sloppy PowerPoints and reading captions verbatim off of slides.
For example, one of the best graphics for conveying information ever made is a chart/map tracking Napoleon Bonaparte's army's march across Europe which is so impressive it's difficult to describe.
The graph includes information about army size, location and timeline in a very readable, straightforwd and yet still beautiful way.
I was fortunate enough to attend one of his seminars after I was already a fan (my work paid for it and I got to keep the books!) which delves into all of his texts.
If you can't make the seminar (no, I do not get any kickbacks, promise) the books are rather complex but they are absolutely stunning and make fascinating reading.
He held them in hotel ballrooms throughout the United States, and his followers attended with cult-like repetition, sometimes registering for the same course 6 times in one year.Edward Tufte is one of the most elegant designers of information alive today, the book was the beginning of my devotion to his philosophy of the visual articulation of facts, figures, and abstract concepts.
From the eloquent graphical explanations in the New York Times, to the vibrant digital displays of political elections on Fox News, and the historical statistics of hurricanes put forth on Weather Channel - all of this traces its heritage back to Edward Tufte and his award winning books.
People have told me to read this book for years and I've always been impressed by the strength of their recommendations.However, on reading this book, I was initially underwhelmed. I felt like Tufte was just rehashing common sense about graphs. I read through it and found myself saying, 'yeah yeah, I get it.'On reflection a week after finishing, I realized this book is genius. Tufte concisely and clearly articulates principles, which should be common sense, so well that they have appearance to be common sense.
to their website TMBG.com.And Tufte's book has its share of worthwhile "Aha!" moments as well.
Tufte points out the clarity and key moments of interest in the various images (such as death "rates in areas where you have lived"), and then critiques: "The maps repay careful study.
They wrongly equate the visual importance of each county with its geographic area rather than with the number of people living in the county (or the number of cancer deaths).
these map examples were drawn by him.At any rate, this book is all about comprehensible, usable design, and Tufte even designed it for maximum impact.
Tufte took on the challenge of making visual information interesting decades ago, and it's still considered one of the top 100 books of the 20th century.
In the second, he breaks down graphs piece by piece as the reader learns how to construct a useful and informative graph, chart, table, or whathaveyou.
A good display conveys that information almost instinctively and makes relationships clear.
A terrible display actually distorts information; and to Tufte, these are inexcusable lies.
Even though the likelihood of me making a chart in the near future is slim, I was surprised by how much thought it takes to develop a good display.
One-sentence summary:The graphical analogue of Elements of Style: obvious (avoid junk!), useless, contradictory, and wrong.Don't understand the hype about this book; it's super outdated (refers mainly to hand-drawn-ish charts; and considering most of use standard tools to create our visualizations, not sure how we're supposed to actually implement his suggestions), and a lot of the advice and "good" examples (Marey's train schedule?
Skim the rest.Two principles:1.
Avoid chartjunk (e.g., moire, grids, and ducks)Apply these two principles:1.
Redesign box plot (not sure if I agree, though the redesigned box plot does look more elegant)2.
Multifunctioning graphical elements (e.g., stem-and-leaf plot)4.
Graphics should tend to the horizontal
These examples form the basis for a set of now-canonized principles.The only part I really disagreed with was the beginning of chapter 6, wherein the author proposes revising the box plot design by reducing it to a mere point floating between two lines, with only white space to represent the size of the interquartile range.
-The author argues that this is preferable because it eliminates all non-data ink.
I would counter that the "box" aspect of the box plot is crucial to understanding the data at a glance, and that the white space makes interpretation harder on the reader.
And in a world where graphs are ordinary, Tufte provides a quick history of how they came to be, and the cognitive leaps required.Tufte rails against the sins of bad graphics: scaling and axes that lie about trends in the data; the use of unnecessary ink to convey redundant information; visual clutter and bad aesthetics.
There are the majors flaws, like the use of flashy cluttered "infographics" that combine the worst features of text-heavy articles and data graphics.
Never was a dude so salty about bad graphs and bad data. Humorous as well as clever.
Without a copy of an earlier printing of the same edition, I cannot comment on whether other changes are present or absent; this was the only chapter where I noticed data or examples that post-date the original second edition printing.---This book by Edward Tufte is considered a classic in graphics design and its easy to see why.
This enhances the dated feeling of some of the discussion, making one wonder if there is a bit of statistical and graphic Luddite influence to the writing.I should say that he does mention Powerpoint and Excel at one point with clear disgust, and I am the first to agree that using either for designing *printed* graphics is a very poor choice.
It's good, I guess I’m knocking a star off because it focuses on paper-based graphs as opposed to computer ones (not really the fault of the book as it was first published in 1983).The book is like the graph equivalent of Strunk & White’s The Elements of Style.
Where Strunk says ‘Omit needless words.’, Tufte says ‘Omit needless ink.’ (I’m paraphrasing).
Despite concerning itself with paper-based graphs, the concepts still apply, and if I took one lesson from the book, it’s to let the data shine through.The production of the book is beautiful, it’s printed on vellum-like paper, and there are many example graphs, good and bad, going back to the 1700s.
I'm imaging tufte writing up this rant in a basement with "we're not gonna take it" blaring in the background, every few paragraphs he mumbles something like "this will show them!" to himself.Section two is pretty much the kind of five paragraph essay I was required to write in school. It's not very often someone makes an argument that hard.Overall, this book is awesome, the book isn't 100% up to date, but the same complains with visualizations would still apply.I'm all amped up to create lots of info graphics now.
I discovered Tufte when I was collecting movable books and this showed up in my bookstore with a pop-up pyramid in it. I found out later that he had self-published this title because no printer or publisher he approached wanted to do the pop-up and he was determined to have it.It's a wonderful explication of the ways in which to analyze data and figure out how to present it in clean, efficient ways that slide the information into waiting minds. Essential.And anybody who enjoys this book will like the site flowingdata.com
Книга про те як перетворювати цифри в красиві мінімалістичні графіки. Досить занудна не дивлячись не те, що контенту не багато. Основні тезиси:- розберіться спочатку в тому, що маєте малювати- не брешіть графіком, і не дайте виглядом неправильного розуміння- при оцінці цін на часовій шкалі, варто враховувати рівень інфляції- відсікайте все лишнє і надавате додаткової цінності
Read this book if you're looking for some history on the subject of plotting data, and plenty of opinions from the (well-respected) author.I'm no stranger to making statistical graphics, it's a task that comes up when writing research publications, at work, and sometimes in my home projects.
Now consider his proposed "rugplot", which is basically a series of 2D scatterplots arranged next to each other such that 1 dimension is shared between adjacent plots (just look at the pic near "Data Ink Minimization 135" in the link).
He talks about data-ink maximization where he compares amount of data to used ink, and suggest that as much of the ink  as possible used should be used for information, rather than grids, lines and what he calls "chart junk"."Graphical elegance is often found in simplicity of design and complexity of data".Edward Tufte has in addition designed and published the book himself, and I can recommend it to everyone dealing with visualizations and maps in general, and especially to those dealing with statistics and economics.
Controverso em alguns momentos, exagerado às vezes, crítico e provocador, mas sempre muito inspirador.
Não é um clássico da área à toa: realmente merece ser lido por quem se interessa por visualização da informação.
Além disso, o livro é fisicamente lindo, um dos livros mais bem "designados" que já vi.
E, para completar, li o livro como parte do "Data Vis Bookclub" (https://twitter.com/datavisclub), e a experiência de ler o livro e depois "discutir" por escrito, ao vivo, num notepad online com a participação de pessoas do mundo inteiro (o gif nesse tweet resume um pouco a experiência: https://twitter.com/lisacrost/status/...), foi muito legal.
(https://blog.datawrapper.de/bookclub-...).
The main point was: a good graph is one that gives to the viewer the greatest number of ideas in the shortest time with the least ink in the smallest space.Fascinating books, with fascinating charts -- both graphically and information-wise.This should be mandatory reading for everyone who will ever draw a graph in their life. It is simply amazing.The teachings bordered on my intuition for graph design, so I'll give it a 4.
Posiblemente el libro de Tufte más aclamado. Todo lo que se diga de él posiblemente será poco. Una lección magistral sobre el arte de cómo presentar datos donde aborda algunos de sus conceptos más famosos: data-ink ratio, sparklines, etc. La edición, elegante, cuidada hasta el último detalle y siempre coherente con sus tesis, es puro deleite.
Some good shit!!! 💯
A classic!
Monumental. Eye opening. Visual alphabet for quantitative information.
And like all methods of communication, they can be made less clear whenever you have something other than clear communication as the goal.Many of the techniques discussed in the creation of various plots and charts are artifacts of when printing graphics was done by ink and pen, and difficult to reproduce.
But the book's focus is not on the techniques of making these visual displays, but on the principles in designing efficient displays.I use a number of data analysis packages and packages, Excel, R, Python, etc.
After reading this it makes me look at these other packages and their options differently, wanting to evaluate the choices there designers made.
It also makes me look at charts and graphs on internet sites, newspapers and magazines differently.
This is a helpful and thoughtful work, and I enjoyed it almost as much for its book-design as for the design of its charts and graphs. Certainly I will now think differently about such items. I also look forwards to trying tol roll sparklines into my academic work.
Since I work for a business intelligence company I figured I might as well learn something about the grammar of data visualization.
And the famous graphic of Napoleon’s march to Moscow and back that makes the terrible loss of life very clear.
It made me a little sad that almost all graphics we encounter these days are generated by computers and not by artists.It’s a very easy read (about 3-4 hours) and a lot of it seems so obvious until you actually try to put it into practice.There are several more books in the series that I’m working my way through now.
Everyone should read this book. Although I am not yet adept at creating data-rich, well-designed visual displays of information (and frankly, I blame spawn-of-satan Microsoft), Tufte's books at least have taught me to recognize the inferiority of other's attempts (and the limitations of Microsoft's software).
Utterly superb. Utterly unmissable. A book which also indirectly draws one's serious attention to the significant dangers of information LOSS in our computer age, because the incredible subtlety of information capable of expression via the medium of pen and ink on paper.
