https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/968.The_Da_Vinci_Code
Please do not try to explain to me that it is a "really interesting and eye-opening book." Just don't.
but if you truly believe that Brown's stupid airport thriller has ANY right whatsoever to be placed in the same category with Michael "Wooden Dildo Dialogue" Crichton, let alone Umberto Eco, kindly keep this opinion very far away from me, or the ensuing conversation we have will not be constructive or polite in any way.I loathe Dan Brown.
If Dan Brown was teaching an Insurgent Christian Symbolism in Art and Literature 101 class at my local community college, I'd definitely have a different opinion about him.
that is a good thing...poorly written or not.if you finish the book you will notice that Dan Brown even makes it clear to readers through his characters words, that he doesn't want to destroy christianity because it has done so much good for so many people, and if it works for them, let's let them continue to do what works for them.
does it open my mind to other faiths like paganism, judiasm, islam, bhuddism, and want to take the truths from all of them, and then THINK FOR MYSELF and figure out my own truth.
It's fairly short now, but when I get a huge publishing contract, I'll flesh it out to 100,000 words by adding sentences.CHAPTER ONE: Handsome yet unmarried historian Hugh Heckman stood in the National Archives Building in Washington, D.C., squinting through the bulletproof glass at the U.S. Constitution.
``It's going to be very surprising when we finally reveal what we're talking about!''CHAPTER THREE: ''Yes,'' said Hugh, ``incredible as it seems, there are extra words written in the margin of the U.S. Constitution, and nobody ever noticed them until now!
They appear to be in some kind of code.''''Let me look,'' said Desiree.
I hate book would got that much of Facts that can sometimes got the equal pages of the novels events itself..I love fiction ,I adore fiction with a hint of fantasy ,that make me escapes of our realistic, raw, ugly most of times, unpleasant world to another different one ..I'm a big fan of Harry Potter -although J.K. Rowling successfully made me read her greedy, realistic, raw, ugly most of times, unpleasant world on The Casual Vacancyand even loving it - So what kind of magic does Dan Brown got to make me fall in love with Robert Langdon's adventures?*Is it his mixing and blending the real historical events with his non-stop thriller "fiction".
Here's a recurring example in this novel: a bit of unfamiliar terminology, say "crux gemmata" (jeweled cross) will will be explained on page N, then on page N+1, a character will finger his jeweled cross and explain, "Oh, yes -- this is a crux gemmata." I've read dinner menus that were more demanding on the reader.
This author gets the best of both worlds: simultaneously claiming that "it's just fiction," while introducing the novel with claims that the historical record contained within is "fact." That claim is ridiculous.
(A-) 80% | Very GoodNotes: Excessive exposition and ludicrous writing discolor an otherwise captivating, thought-provoking, page-turning read.
"الجهل يعمي أبصارنا ويضللناأيها البشر الفانون ! افتحوا أعينكم !" ليوناردو دافنشي في رواية الكاتب البوليسي "دان بروان" الثالثة, والثانية لشخصية "روبرت لانجدون" عالم الرموز, يحدثنا عن الأصول التاريخية لوضع المرأة في ثنايا قصته البوليسية المحبوكة جيداً, والمرصعة بالأعمال الفنية لفنانين تمركزت أعمالهم عن هذه القضية"الكريبتكس""جزء من لوحة العشاء الأخير لـ ليوناردو دافنشي"ففي عالمنا الحالي ينظر للنساء نظرة دونية, فلا يوجد حاخامات يهوديات ولا كاهنات كاثوليكيات, ولا شيخات مسلماتوهذا الحال كان مختلفاً تم
في رواية الكاتب البوليسي "دان بروان" الثالثة, والثانية لشخصية "روبرت لانجدون" عالم الرموز, يحدثنا عن الأصول التاريخية لوضع المرأة في ثنايا قصته البوليسية المحبوكة جيداً, والمرصعة بالأعمال الفنية لفنانين تمركزت أعمالهم عن هذه القضية"الكريبتكس""جزء من لوحة العشاء الأخير لـ ليوناردو دافنشي"ففي عالمنا الحالي ينظر للنساء نظرة دونية, فلا يوجد حاخامات يهوديات ولا كاهنات كاثوليكيات, ولا شيخات مسلماتوهذا الحال كان مختلفاً تماماً في الأديان الوثنية القديمة, فقد كانت المرأة هي رمز الخصوبة والحياة, كانت المرأة مقدسة وكانت الآلهة نساءولكن متى وكيف حدث هذا التحول في نظرة الأديان الرئيسية للمرأة؟ "جزء من لوحة الموناليزا"يعود الأمر, كما يحكي لنا دان بروان, للصراع بين الكنيسة المسيحية والأديان الوثنية في الدولة الرومانيةوكان آنذاك الدين الرسمي في روما هو عبادة الشمس التي لا تقهر, وكان قسطنطين هو كبير كهنتها.لكن لسوء حظه, كان هناك اهتياج ديني متزايد يجتاح روما.
And it's not like Plantard got away with it, either--the whole 'Priory of Sion' thing was debunked thirty years before this book was even written.The artistic 'iconography' that figures heavily into the mystery is also completely made-up, and was declared ludicrous by an art history professor of my acquaintance.
The whole hinge on which the plot turns--the notion that an inverted triangle is automatically symbolic of women--makes about as much sense as declaring that the use of the swastika by 3rd century, BC Buddhists was proof that they were fascists.The rest of Brown's book is filled with the sort of cliched religious conspiracies you get from your first year as a theology student.
OKAY PEOPLE…someone let me in on the gag because between the cries of "Greatest Book of Greaty Greatness EVER" and the screams of "Lamest Load of Lamey Lameness EVER", my itty bitty brain is left very…  So post Hype-a-ganza, I finally got around to reading this popular, polarizing, pop culture icon and thought it was….drum roll……………………FINE(sigh). It was a solid read with a slight lean towards the “eh” side of MEH and few moments of genuine “that’s neat.” I don’t see all the love and I don’t see
The plot of this one has been talked to death and beyond so rather than adding one more jelly bean to the jar, I thought I would just run down a few likes and dislikes about the story and leave it at that.
1. Conspiracy theories: are just fully fun and I am a major sucker for plots concerning “shadow” histories and secret people doing secret things behind secret doors for reasons that are SHHHHHHH.
1. Symbology, Da Vinci and the Holy Grail (the EXECUTION): As much as I enjoyed the plot concept, the execution of the story was often frustrating and occasionally insulting.
It follows "symbologist" Robert Langdon and cryptologist Sophie Neveu after a murder in the Louvre Museum in Paris causes them to become involved in a battle between the Priory of Sion and Opus Dei over the possibility of Jesus Christ having been a companion to Mary Magdalene.عنوانها: رمز داوینچی؛ راز داوینچی؛ نویسنده: دن براون؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: سال 2007 میلادیعنوان: رمز داوینچی؛ نویسنده: دن براون؛ مترجم: نوشین ریشهری؛ تهران، نگارینه، 1384، در 336 ص؛ شابک: 9647533764؛ چاپ سوم 1385؛ عنوان: راز داوینچی؛ نویسنده: دن براون؛ مترجم: حسین شهرابی؛ سمیه گنجی؛ تهران، زهره، 1384، در 462 ص؛ مصور؛ شابک: 964570340؛ چاپ هفتم 1385؛ چاپ دیگر: تهران، علم آرین، 1384؛ در 462 ص ؛ شابک: 9649582541؛عنوان: راز داوینچی؛ نویسنده: دن براون؛ مترجم: مریم بهرامی؛ تهران؛ بهزاد، 1385؛ در 571 ص؛ شابک: 9642569264؛صهیون خرابه های قلعه ای ست در سوریه، نزدیک لاذقیه، در زمان اسکندر، فنیقیان آنجا مسکن گزیدند، چهارصد سال پیش از میلاد مسیح.
Most folks have seen the movie and probably not read the book.
I love the complexity of the story, the reality and the fiction, the test of character strength, the puzzles, the different view points.
I heard about the movie being made of the book and how it was coming out relatively soon.
I looked it up and saw it had the "treasure-hunter" thrill appeal and decided to read the book before the movie could come out and warp my interpretation.
Definitely a must-read for the genre, for Brown and before watching the movie adaption.
Dan Brown - image from USA Today A real page-turner, about a Holy Grail quest.
It is replete with oodles of interesting little details about church history, the true meaning of the grail, secret societies through the ages, Opus Dei and architectural details.
Rescued by the deceased's granddaughter, a police cryptologist, the pair flees from both French and British police.
The tale is enlivened with characters such as Silas, an albino ex-con who has seen the light and been taken in by the head of a Catholic extremist cult, Leigh, a British knight obsessed with finding the grail.
Great fun!I also reviewed Brown''s -----Angels and Demons-----The Lost Symbol and-----Inferno
شيفرة دافنتشي عنوان موفق.فكل الأحداث والرموز والأسرار تبدأ من شيفرة دافنتشي.لا أستطيع ان انهي رواية 
It is NOT a great book to broaden your cultural horizons, and whatever the humbug mentioned on Leonardo - it is NOT equivalent to reading a book researched by a REAL art historian, - which is something entirely different from a blind-folded arrogant gold digging bestseller author.
Once and for all, no!"Lisa, you as a book lover and art historian must love Dan Brown!" No!
It makes me furious to get the question, over and over:"How much of what he discovered on Leonardo is true?"I did not write a review, I hope.
Impossibly complicated plot. Really, really, really bad writing. This book was forced upon me. I should have known better.
I've finally started reading that ever so controversial best-seller by Dan Brown.
It almost seems that the whole purpose of the book is to tell the world how much Brown knows about obscure art history and symbology, and that he is willing to explain it to the teeming masses of uniformed Christendom.
Today, though, Brown completely lost any stock I would have put into his actual knowledge.
As every half-informed Catholic knows, Mary was the Immaculate Conception (conceived without sin), Jesus was the Miraculous Conception (conceived by the power of the Holy Spirit).How this novel came to be as popular as it is, I can understand.
It happened that author Dan Brown celebrated a birthday last week, and as I had never read his best selling DaVinci Code, the diary reminded me that the summer was a good as time as any to partake in this thriller.
Brown details centuries of religious symbols and information as he has Langdon and Neveu quest to keep the Priory's secrets safe.
While it remains to be seen if the mysteries outlined in The DaVinci Code are fact, fiction, or somewhere in between, Dan Brown has created a fun concept that makes for thrilling summer reading.
Español - EnglishCuando sabe que lo asesinarán, Jacques Sauniere, deja una serie de pistas dirigidas a su nieta Sophie para que contacte a Robert Landon y le ayude a decifrarlas.
Creo que es primer libro que leí del género y esta tan bien escrito que me enganchó y no pude parar de leerlo.La película es muy buena, pero nada iguala al libro.---When he knows that he will be murdered, Jacques Sauniere leaves a series of clues to his granddaughter Sophie to contact Robert Landon and help her decipher them.
I downloaded the book and put it on my ipod and began to listen to it on a long road trip.
I found it engaging and the plot twisted and turned, jumping from scene to scene, back and forth in time.
Really kept the reader on her toes.
I'm not sure if I liked it, the writing style was pretty crude, but it kept me thinking.About an hour into listening I realized that the ipod was on shuffle mode and in fact all the chapters were being shuffled.
I groaned and started over.
For my part, I don't see the book so much as an indictment of the Catholic Church in particular but of religious extremism and religion interfering in political process in general.
Furthermore, Brown's indictment of the Church for removing or suppressing feminine divinity figures is justified and needs a much closer look.
Women do not have enough of a role in religion, religious practice, heroic myths, and creation myths, nor are they portrayed as divinity figures enough.
In short, our religious systems and institutions lack balance and have a bias to suppress issues, stories, and roles that empower women to live as equals to men.
It's considered an unfair advantage using a cryptex box to solve this.
ا الرجل الفيتروفي ايقونة الحضارة الغريبة يتحول الى الجثة الاكثر شهرة ادبيا عندما استخدم سونيير دمه ك
For cheap supermarket fiction, this sure was cheap supermarket fiction. It would have helped if this was the first book I had ever read. Unfortunately, having read Curious George as a child (a towering work of literary genius by comparison), The DaVinci Code suffered perhaps unjustly.
Exciting news for the blind and partially-sighted community, as the publishers release a Braille version:
This book is non-stop action.This book is non-stop action.This book is non-stop action.This book is 
Every single "thriller" that he has written to date begins with the murder of a key character at the hands of a shadowy and "terrifying" assassin individual/group.
The protagonist is introduced as an "expert" whose credentials relate to the matter at hand, and who takes the job of hunting down the bad guys.
The avuncular father figure turns out to be pulling the strings of the assassins, is behind the original killing, and provides a forgettable monologue at the end where he pleas for understanding.
Finally, Mr. Brown likes to write about what he sees as religious conflicts.
Book Circle Reads 11Rating: 3 stars of five The Publisher Says: An ingenious code hidden in the works of Leonardo da Vinci.
As Langdon and gifted French cryptologist Sophie Neveu sort through the bizarre riddles, they are stunned to discover a trail of clues hidden in the works of Leonardo da Vinci—clues visible for all to see and yet ingeniously disguised by the painter.Even more startling, the late curator was involved in the Priory of Sion—a secret society whose members included Sir Isaac Newton, Victor Hugo, and Da Vinci—and he guarded a breathtaking historical secret.
Not ONE WORD of criticism for this book's three-star rating.
Win-win-win!Normal people: You've all read the book by now, right?
Honestly, you don't need to make anything up about the Catholic church to point out that it's been the source of some horrible things.I could go on about the poor research and editing in this book, but others have done a pretty thorough job of finding the problems with it.If you want a decent page turner, go for it.
Illuminati and Club of Rome. Is Dan Brown illuminated or enlightened?He is a good researcher that is for sure.If you like Dan Brown.Check out Crooked Gold by Carl Knauf.
That's led me to wonder why.I think it's because some books, while bad, are not horrible to the bone and I hold out hope that they might salvage a rough start and shine by the end.
I never hope a book sucks.
When I finally get around to reading a ragingly popular book such as The Da Vinci Code and it turns out to be a clanger, I'm not happy.
Reading a bad book means I'm going to have to write a negative review, which in turn means I'll attract more trollish defenders of the book, and ain't nobody got time for that!
