https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/917917.The_Flower_Beneath_the_Foot
Hollinghurst's involvement means that this edition, as with Richard Canning's edition of Vainglory / Inclinations/ Caprice (Penguin Classics, 2012), is closer to Firbank's vision.So this is THE great novel of camp modernism.
But it's also modernist in the sense of striving to do new things to the novel form, taking its campness into the realm of the experimental, with passages of fragments and ellipses.
Firbank's novels are an acquired taste, but once acquired they can give the reader a new way of understanding the role of camp in culture.
Set at the fantastical court of King Willie and Her Dreaminess the Queen of Pisuerga, this is an absurd and yet poignant tale of love, disillusionment, and debauch on the eve of a royal wedding told in the tittering tones of high camp humour, ‘a blinding melody of chattering eccentrics and postures not always free from vulgarity’.
This foppish book is heavily laced with bizarre descriptions of dress and interior decoration – ‘saccharine bits of wispy fluff ’, as Michael Dirda, reviewer for the Washington Post, puts it – but its dialogue, pared down to bare essentials, is an abrupt, almost lyrical tour de force of compression, silliness, and double entendre.
A strange book, apparently an influence on Waugh's Black Mischief, but as far from Waugh as you can get in some ways. It's as if one of ER Eddisson's post-Ouroboros ponderances about archetypes and exemplars afoot in Zimimavia were to be taken over by Wilde, brought back down to earth and made stranger, funnier, more subversive and more resonant in the process. I almost wrote that it is like the novel Huysmans' Des Esseintes would write, but Firbank was both more knowing and more self-aware than that tragicomic

I picked this book up because it was referenced in a Vita Sackville-West biography.
It is a silly story based somewhat on the elite of England in the 1930s.
Queen Dreariness, Sir Someone, Lady Somebody, Lady Wetme all make appearances in the story.
Vita appears in one section as Lady Chillywater who, not to confuse anyone is married to a diplomat named Harold.
It is brought up that she writes only under her name and not her husband's name.
I am assuming that this may have been entertaining at the time, or for someone familiar with the English elites of that period.
That detail, however, didn’t keep me from relishing the self-indulgent way the author creates a fairy tale world where, as omniscient narrator, he can linger over any description that pleases him personally; ridicule stereotypes of the upper classes, their servants, and clergy; and make a game out of naming people, places, or occupations.
Given the Modernist perception that the author replaces the priest, and must serve the Deity his passions drive him to create, it would appear Firbank, like Emily Dickinson in this respect, wrote from a singularly distinctive worldview in a style that would bewilder many around him.
The introduction to this edition offers comparisons to Wodehouse and Waugh, though Henry Green and Ivy Compton-Burnett come to mind as well - give the characters a sufficient length of dialog and they'll hang themselves without much assistance from the omniscient narrator.
In turn her only recourse is to enter a monastery and eventually become some sort of saint in later years (literally mentioned in a footnote), making this an almost farcical "life".
This is a lightweight humorous farce which serves well to clear the mind between deeper reads. There's a small emotional tweak at the end, but otherwise this well-crafted novel enters the mind effortlessly, amusingly passes through it without disturbance, and is forgotten without a trace soon after starting another book. That's Firbank in a nutshell—it took a certain artistry to write books that work the way his do.
I loved this little book that bubbled with phrases & words & countesses & marquis. An interesting writer & an odd but worthwhile book.
The book is entertaining if you read it in passages, but not something to read back to back, despite being rather short. There are about as many characters as there are pages and most of what's in the story is not physically in the text.While the whole book as an experimental exploration of camp and language is interesting, I'd consider it more art than entertainment.
"...................?!?!?!?!?"
After VALMOUTH (which was rather dull) and THE PRINCESS ZOUBAROFF (which was uninteresting *and* icky), THE FLOWER BENEATH THE FOOT is a welcome return to Firbank's earlier style.
But it's a return only to the strengths of those novels.
Firbank had a lengthy apprenticeship - 5 self-published novellas in 5 years - but THE FLOWER is purely and consistently hilarious.The sovereign family of this Ruritania (Pisuerga, somewhere in Europe) is comprised of her Dreaminess the Queen, her consort King William, his Weariness the Prince Yousef, and the younger prince Olaf, his Naughtiness.
The honorifics capture the whimsy of the story.
wandering wombs
