https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13223520-existence
My thoughts before reading the book What happens when you're stalked by Death? You fall in love with him, of course. Oh god, why am I going to read this???*looks at the cover model's eyes*Yes master... I shall read the book...My thoughts while reading the book▪ Pagan? What kind of name is Pagan?▪ Of course he’s gorgeous, just look at that damn cover!!▪ Ugh please don’t let it be a love triangle!!▪ Give me more of the dead dude.▪ Fair hair for the good guy dark hair for the evil one? Typical. Is
What kind of name is Pagan?▪ Of course he’s gorgeous, just look at that damn cover!!▪ Ugh please don’t let it be a love triangle!!▪ Give me more of the dead dude.▪ Fair hair for the good guy dark hair for the evil one?
When Pagan speaks I feel like I’m listening to a thirty year old woman and not a teenager.
He’s Death.
The formula seems to work so why not Google some creature, make him hot as hell and- oh wait.
Oooh, I could die for an idea right now!
It’s bullshit.My thoughts on the next book in the seriesBarf.
I'm done, I'm done, I'm done. I refuse to continue this torture. I refuse.EXISTENCE is over three-hundred pages of lust romance that came out of nowhere, countless sentences describing how Pagan's heart has been "broken beyond repair", a douchebag love interest, and so many grammatical and constructional mistakes I wondered how this even got published.Dear characters in EXISTENCE,
4 It is appointed Stars I was in the mood for a YA.
Something like my beloved Twilight or VA, so when I seen this series on the Audible romance package I thought why not.
I have to say that I really enjoyed Existence.
The only thing I didn't like about it was the fact that Pagan had a boyfriend that wasn't the hero the whole book.
That is why I took off one star from my rating.
I loved the plot of Pagan being able to see dead souls.
I really liked Dank I did however hate his name.
4 It is appointed Stars
Something like my beloved Twilight or VA, so when I seen this series on the Audible romance package I thought why not.
The only thing I didn't like about it was the fact that Pagan had a boyfriend that wasn't the hero the whole book.
That is why I took off one star from my rating.
I loved the plot of Pagan being able to see dead souls.
I really liked Dank I did however hate his name.
I liked the budding love between Dank and Pagan.
Overall a really good read it ends on a cliffy so I am off to book 2.
Pagan Moore is a great heroine, nothing like the heroines in her other books and the storyline while based in her senior year of high school was totally not predictable!Pagan can see lost souls bumping around our world but she can't talk to them.
The story does end with an AWESOME cliffhanger and so this reader is onto the next book with great anticipation as to what is to come for this well constructed love triangle of SOULS!!
He eventually becomes her boyfriend, but nope, Pagan has to pick the dead stiff over him at the end for no adequate reason.Speaking of dyslexia, though, this novel really likes to run its mouth on these sensitive psychiatric and learning disability issues.
I knew some dyslexic people at school, college and university who were really embarrassed that it took them ages to read a book compared to their peers, or that they could never read aloud in English because their classmates would tut or make fun of them as they struggled with what seemed like a simple sentence.Also, what is this rubbish about Pagan wondering how Leif gets good grades?
This has GOT to be one of the most GORGEOUS covers I have ever seen. Period. <3<3<3 Hence, this book must be read! xD
“It’s pretty impossible to hurt what Deathprotects.”   Meet  Dank "Death" Walker.  So what do you do when Death is stalking you? (If only Death would look like that..)*snaps back to reality*This a supernatural story of romance between a girl that has spent her whole life seeing spirits, and the Death God that saves her from an accident that should have been fatal. How does a 17-year-old girl safeguard her sanity when everything screams for her to let go of reality? How does a man keep his dist
(If only Death would look like that..)*snaps back to reality*This a supernatural story of romance between a girl that has spent her whole life seeing spirits, and the Death God that saves her from an accident that should have been fatal.
How does a man keep his distance from the only soul that calls to him incessantly?And how do they survive the forces that drag them apart when their love demands them together?
“You tempt me.
It’s your soul calling to me.
I’m an immortal god that dwells with supreme power because I hold the keys to Death.
Because it seemed a bit cliffhangerish at the end and I would have been REALLY confused had I not read the little prequel from Death's PoV.
***Do yourself a favor and seriously, stop reading if you haven't finished the book, because this is going to get hard core spoilery and take it from someone who always reads the last paqe first, you'll want to be surprised.***(view spoiler)[But even having read that prequel, and assuming I'm correct in thinking Leif was the "soulless" Death saw when he first met Pagan, it still doesn't explain who sent him and why.
Yeah, he talks to her and he sings for her and she is already feeling this kid, like yeah but she knows that even though she is attracted to him, that she can’t ever really be with him because he isn’t real, so she does the sane thing and gets a boyfriend, Leif.Then Dank (what the hell kind of name is that anyway?) manifests into a real life boy!
That's right, she lets him come and visit her at the institution, she even holds his hand and nuzzles her nose in his neck knowing damn well that she doesn’t feel anything for him.
Downloaded for free from Amazon.co.ukThis was a really good paranormal romance, and I didn’t expect to like it as much as I did. I thought Dank and Pagan were really hot together, and I was surprised by the mini cliff-hanger ending we got.8 out of 10
oh say, a near-death experience where stalker steps in and saves the day.Stalker takes this time to insinuate himself into girl's Pagan's life; his name we now learn is Dank.
“You can’t scare me off and I’m not running away.Hmmm…that sounded strangely familiar...There was even the obligatory preppy love-struck puppy who the girl is determined to be with because he's so real and he makes her feel so safe.Not once did I feel like I was engaging with the characters of this book.
I have loved the idea of personifying death ever since I read The Book Thief and I was really looking forward to this book, but it just fell flat.
Let's hook up.Pagan: Errr...
-tries to ignore the hot dead rock star who comes into her room every night-Dank: (what kind of a name is Dank anyway?) Hey there.
I am going to just sit here with my guitar, eyefucking you while looking like the, well, rock star I am.
I fell in love with you the minute I laid eyes on you, risked my entire existence for you, did I mention you look ridiculously hot in pale pink, broke all the rules, and spend the rest of my immortal life wanting what I can't have.Pagan: Errr...
Think of this as a highlight reel.It's too bad the entire (original) book wasn't written in Dank's PoV because he was more interesting to read.
I wasn't 100% sold on Dank's voice as sounding male but I much preferred being inside of his head over being in Pagan's.Dank, you're not half bad...I let my eyes travel down her dress and enjoyed the simple fact that she'd bought it for me.
However, it does make me a little more hopeful about book 2.I mentioned in my Existence review that Pagan and Dank have to be some of the worst names ever.
why do I keep punishing myself reading books like these..because I keep hoping that I'll find characters that I'll fall in love with even if the story maybe similar to every other paranormal YA book.Anyway we have our protagonist Pagan who can see souls/ghosts..
Anyways Leif and Pagan become closer but the beautiful soul - who wait for is called Dank- WTF??
Pagan loves him now more than ever, but still doesn't break up with Leif..
and then she finally decides she should break up with Leif of course after she's kissed and declared her love to Dank..
The writing sounded like a tween took a part of a dream that lasted three minutes and tried to spin it into a book.
I wouldn't lie to you like that.Lets start with our protagonist Pagan because really no one else matters:She is the worst kind of selfish bitch.
You don't get to write a lovely character such as Leif, make him the punching bag all book long and then  dum-dum-dum leave a "cliffhanger" that's supposed to, what, excuse Pagans shit-tastic behavior??
It sounds like it smells wet.
It doesn't sound like it smells good.
Abbi!!!
Gah.Ok, I officially want a Dank!
;) And a Leif.I worried about this book.
I'm not into love triangles, but aye!
I love them both.
Abbi made this story work, which is really hard to do with a love triangle for me.
If I could smack them together and make a Dank and Leif sandwich, I'd have one.
Equal parts yummy and sweet, but in completely different ways.
And Pagan wasn't annoying!!
Usually, MC females annoy the crap out of me, but Pagan was so normal and sweet.
Congrats, Abbi!
5 solid, sweet, swoonworthy stars!
What a cliffhanger!!! I'm so glad I have the next book already or I would be going nuts. (view spoiler)[ Leif isn't human...WHAT?! (hide spoiler)]Pagan:SERIES:   Cliffhangers. Series complete.1st book of 2013["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
I really like existence by abbi glines.
I usually dont read books less the 300 pages because to me you can't get a good story and a plot down in anything less but existence pleasantly surprised me.
I am a fan of abbi's writing and this is my favorite of them all!
She has a way of getting to the point of the subject in a few paragraphs and has good sized chapters.
The characters are lovable and easy to like.
The hole "death" finds love pulls you in and keeps you reading.
It's a quick, easy and fun read and I defiantly would recommend it.
Before reading:Voice of Reason: You know Shambhawi, you will probably hate this book.
Go on Samba, read it.Beginning:Voice of Reason: This sucks already.
It might get better.Some few chapters in:Voice of Reason: Singing lullabies in the corner while watching the girl sleep.
It might get better.Some more chapters in:Voice of Reason: No. NO.
Oh yeah, Dank(TEEHEE!) he stopped doing that and she's sad about it,Masochistic Side: Read on Samba, read on.
You are worse than Pagan sulking over Dank(TEEHEE!)Masochistic Side: Read on Samba, read on.
Go on Samba, this is the book for you.When Pagan was taken to psychiatric ward:Voice of Reason: FUCK THIS!
Reseña en el blog, donde me desquito completamente con este libro :PEn un rapto de generosidad vamos a ponerle tres, pero tira para las dos.Es entretenido y por partes me gustó.
fueron confusos, como que es todo medio rebuscado y poco convincente.El misterio de qué tipo de ser era Dank me enganchó y estoy segura que, aunque era predecible, me hubiera gustado más el libro de confirmar mis sospechas por mí misma.
Pero alguien tuvo la generosidad de revelarme el misterio (sin que se lo pidiera, simplemente comenté en mi blog que estaba leyendo este libro) y la historia perdió toda la gracia al saberlo.
*sigh* It should have been a fun read!! What I got instead is a silly cliché story that leaves you hanging with an abrupt cliffhanger. It took a lot of effort to read it and I skimmed the whole second half of the book stopping only when I saw Dank's name. And I warn you that it contains yet another stupid love triangle. Our heroine (see that sarcasm?) toys with feelings of one boy while she is totally pinning for another one (may I add that the boy is mysterious and impossibly gorgeous with a dimple?)
5 Wow Me Stars Warning: All I can say is, have book 2 ready.
what I loved:1.
Wyatt - what's not to love ?4.
Sometimes I was in love with Leif too8.
No major teenage HS drama/angst with Pagan.10.
Dank singing Pagan lullabies.11.
The deep connection between Dank and Pagan.12.
I read this book in one night.
I absolutely loved it.
It captured my attention the entire book.
And for once I loved being only in one persons head the entire story.
I definitely didn't anticipate such an awesome story, one that was different from everything I've read lately.
She ignores them until she meets a boy named Dank, who is the first soul to ever speak to her.
Things get even more confusing for Pagan when Dank is suddenly a student at her school that everyone can see.What I likedThis is a unique story.
I did know what Dank is, but that's about all I guessed correctly.What I didn't like There were a few things I wished were different.
I think I understand why she used the name "Dank", but it was odd enough to distract me from the story every time I read it.
Yes, this cover does Death justice.
Every time his eyes are mentioned, remember the cover and swoon.
This book has the feel of an Abbi Glines romance with a shift to the paranormal.
Book one, to me, feels like more of a YA love story with paranormal elements, because the plot doesn’t revolve around paranormal activity like other paranormal romance books I’ve read.
However, we haven’t reached the full plot or what is really going on yet in this story overall.
I think there is more to some of these characters and story than we learn in book one.
5 dank stars!!!
You will get interest, you will get annoyed,you will scratch your head with the fact you have not a single clue whats going on,you will feel you will want to smash your head at your laptop with the things you will read,you will go totally GAGAA (like lady Gaga)This is the first book i read from Abbi Glines and for sure it wont be the last.
It totally hooked me by reading and dont be supriced with the number of pages there are so many things thats going on,so many guesses at what on earth happening that you wont even realise how fast you will read the bookVery interesting concert about ghosts,souls and the ability of Pagan actually seeing.
I mean… if grammar was a living, breathing person, I’m pretty sure he would go and jump off a cliff after reading this.
Someone read this and decided to publish it?
Pagan, Leif & Dank?????
Through pretty much this whole book she’s seeing this guy called Leif, star quarterback and really good boyfriend, sweet, kind & thoughtful.
Pagan decides she doesn’t love him and she only has eyes for Dank.
She uses him to make herself feel better and the poor guy doesn’t have a clue.
Its just a shame Pagan didn’t actually die and end of this selfish farce.
(view spoiler)[Instead of writing a conventional review, I decided to write a recipe for writing a shitty paranormal romance YA novel like this one, to properly express my love for baking and my disdain for this novel:- Take one female protagonist.
She has to have an utterly ridiculous Mary-Sue name: Pagan.- Take one tall, dark, and handsome male love interest.
Write some half-assed paranormal mythology, add some boring side characters, and maybe throw in a few cliched teenage girl fantasy elements taken from any amateur writing site populated mainly by teens - the new hot guy at school is a ROCK STAR, and a supernatural creature too!
What can I say? I loved this book! The only thing good about me not reading it until now is that I can jump right into the second one!!!!I loved Dank- and now I'm really excited about this next book and to see what's going on with Leif... Kinda left us hanging on that one!
Holy hell! I didn't expect to like this book so much! Review to come!
