https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12432220-the-false-prince
In a slow-burn pace, plot details come together like a puzzle, with intrigue building steadily and keeping me on my toes throughout the whole book.
But really, it's very slow burn because not much happens in this first book outside of lots of scenes with delicious tension.
So I went back and reread all of my favorite scenes in The False Prince.
And then I tried to read other books on my TBR but they're just not The False Prince and I think I'm going to cry I'm so desperate for more.
I don't know what the hell is wrong with me! I'm having more 3 star reviews and a couple of 2 star reviews lately more than I ever have before. I usually know how to pick them but I'm off or something. AND 3 STARS ISNT BAD! IT JUST MEANS I LIKED IT WELL ENOUGH! I think I know what's going on and I hope to fix it soon. I'm happy for all of my friends who loved the book to death because there is nothing like a wonderful book 😊Happy Reading! Mel ❤️
If you think you know where this book is going, you probably do.I have read other books (like Finnikin of the Rock) that had predictable outcomes as well, but that one at least had gorgeous writing, three dimensional characters, and impeccable world-building to keep me satisfied.
It all feels as if the author didn’t quite know how to negotiate between an intimate first person narrator and the number of secrets that she wanted to keep from the reader.
But don’t young readers deserve to have great characters, world-building, and writing too?
This was such a fun quick read! I couldn't put it down, I just had to keep reading. I loved the main character and the way he not only kept secrets from other characters but from us as readers. And the dialogue in this book was phenomenal. I can't wait to pick up the next one and plan to do it very soon!
So to make it clear, had I read the book at a different time, I would have probably loved it but forgive me if for the entire reading all I could think about was how badly I miss Harry Potter.I do appreciate the short chapters and that overall, it was a fast-paced fantasy read and that the premise (three orphan boys compete in order to be chosen as the false prince) was entertaining and engaging enough but this is one of those stories where I would honestly prefer a third person POV.
Happy Birthday, my charming, sweet friend!
Now I remember why I gave this book 5 stars and it had me hooked just like the first time.
I love this series so much.
Listen, this book is so good it got my brother, who HATES to read, to freaking read.I was going into my room and my brother was sitting on the bed reading this book and I was screaming for ten minutes straight.
Listen, this book is really good.
It got someone who hates to read into reading.
It made me want to reread this book.
And I rated it 5 stars.
So listen,You should read it.
Since there are quite a number of similarities of both plot and characters, I can't help but compare The False Prince to The Thief by Megan Whalen Turner.
But unlike Gen (who is one of my all-time fave book characters), Sage- the male protagonist in this book- is sadly lacking in depth and not nearly as much fun.Or it could simply be that I'm not the target reader- obviously, as the protagonists and sups were mostly young teenagers who behaved in a manner that made suspension of disbelief near on impossible.
And if I may say so, that plot twist was unsurprising given the sheer scale of foreshadowing.
In all.....meh.
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestCarthya is a kingdom on the brink of war. The royal family is dead. The youngest son, Jaron, is missing, presumed dead. A group of regents all have their eye on the vacant throne, and if one of them seizes power, it's likely that the entire kingdom will be plunged into ruin. But one nobleman named Conner has a plan. He's rounded up a group of four orphan boys - Latamer, Roden, Tobias, and Sage - that all have the look of Jaron. His plan is
He's rounded up a group of four orphan boys - Latamer, Roden, Tobias, and Sage - that all have the look of Jaron.
As for the others, well...death.Despite being a thief and an orphan, Sage is a proud boy, and doesn't take kindly to Conner's cruel tyranny.
No matter how big a jerk he is, there's never a moment where you don't want him to succeed, because you feel in your heart that he deserves it.The only things that I can really ding this book for are - the main twist.
Also, Roden's and Tobias's characters started to feel pretty interchangeable in the last third of the book.
Roden especially did some things that just felt out of character.
Fourteen year old Sage is involuntarily hauled out of a rough orphanage by Bevin Conner nobleman in their kingdom of Carthya, as part of Conner's secret and treasonous plan (though ostensibly and debatably he has the ultimate good of the kingdom at heart): train a group of four (very soon three) orphans with the skills they would have as young nobleman, and pick the best one to impersonate the king's younger son Jaron, who was lost at sea four years earlier, at the age of ten.
Crispy and witty, the dialogues paired with a piquant voice of the narrator, Sage keeps one fully engulfed in the novel.Now you maybe thinking that this book is perhaps a simple, straight-forward read to the sabotage of the throne after the imposter Prince's training.
The author sure knows how to develop and play with her readers' interests.In addition to the perfect writing, a world built with a realistic infrastructure and an amazing plot twist, there is one other treat viz; a strong, appealing central character.
At the end, there will be only one one winner, one survivor.The False Prince is told from Sage's side in 1st PoV as he try to survive a mad nobleman's plan to usurp the throne.
The winner will become the imposter puppet prince.TFP starts off with Conner and his two henchmen, Mott and Cregan, kidnapping Sage.
And you will do it to save Carthya.”The Characters+++ Sage the defiant orphan, our heroA thief.
He says the death of three young orphans is regrettable, but the surviving one will help him save the kingdom!I hate Conner because he's the villain, he's the reason for our hero's predicament.
So what now?Conner scours the orphanages of Carthya and gathers four boys who have a physical resemblance to the late Prince.Meet Latamer, Roden, Tobias, and Sage.Each boy has his own memorable qualities.
After two weeks of different types of training, Conner would select the most suited boy to present to the royal court as the faux Prince Jaron.Our protagonist is Sage, a boy who is originally from one of the neighboring kingdoms.
Even though this book was in first person, with some artfully placed ambiguity and unnoticeable skirting around the topic, the author completely avoided the subject until Conner chooses Sage--Sorry--Jaron as his prince.
(hide spoiler)]The False Prince is a book that deserves a place on everyone's shelf!
The three pillars of The False Prince♖ In my opinion, the main character, Sage, is this book's strongest asset.
To be frank here, the book would've been only half as good without Sage to wreak havoc.
♖ The third pillar consists of little things I cherish about this book: The soft touch of a slow-burn romance, the tug-of-war between Sage and Conner, and the loyalty of what's-his-name (see, Nina?
#massivefailureYou don't want to pick up this book for the action, the swordfights and the courtfights.
You want to pick up this book for Sage because he's one of a damn kind.
CHECK.And all of that is in addition to the highly entertaining snark that does not stop.
A mission that involves rounding up orphan boys of a certain age and appearance and training them to behave convincingly like noblemen themselves.Sage wants nothing to do with whatever Conner's plan is, but when it becomes obvious that he must submit or be hunted and silenced, he decides to stick around and see what all of this is really about.If you want to know what it's all about, you'll have to read it for yourself (b/c not telling).And I hope you do.
"If we can weed out your bad manners and defiant nature, I suspect you could convince the nobles that you are him.""If you weed those out, then there's nothing left of me."In the interests of the future readers: I'm nearing the end of The Runaway King now, the second book in the trilogy, and as far as I can tell so far, The False Prince works perfectly, probably even better, as a standalone.
At times, I'm afraid I found them blander than I'd like, but since it didn't markedly bother me, I'd call it a minor flaw.•It seems that The False Prince qualifies as middle-grade, but I wouldn't hesitate to recommend it to more mature readers.
Shut the front door that ending was fantastic.....I did not see any of that coming. The last 1/4 of that book was just simply unreal. I also was impressed how the author was able to stuff so much material into a relatively short novel. (Mind you it is part one of a trilogy) I simply cannot say enough about this book. I loved the characters, the plot was fantastic and the twists and turns at the end just blew my mind. Well done! One of the best books I've read in awhile!
It was like,I had been magnetized by this book and couldn't let it out of my grip.(can't stay away from it,I even had to hold my bladder!Lol!)This is a story of a 14 year old orphan boy named SAGE,(the protagonist here,who is so clever,strong,and with a witty-sharp tongue)who was bought by a royal regent named Bevin Connor,to be a part of a scheme of being an impostor(false)prince of a kingdom named Carthya.Along with Sage are three other orphans: Latamer,Tobias and Roden.Each one would compete for the prince's throne that revolves a fierce competition.And of course,I rooted for Sage the entire time because I just simply love him!
I haven't got any witty, funny or sarcastic things to say.
I bow to Sage's wit and admit how much of a dimwit I would feel were he standing right in front of me right now.
Book characters like Sage are masters to me.
All praise Sage's eternal wit.
But who is the king?
Everyone wants to be the king.
Packed with action, thrill, perfect adventure, perfect pace, diverse perfect characters, perfect writing, wit, dialogues and twists this is a book for all.
There is no way you can read The False Prince, and not have the inevitable comparisons to Megan Whalen Turner's The Thief crop up.
And neither is the story as a whole.This book was a fun romp, despite the heavy-handed hints and the reader being railroaded into a very obvious conclusion.
The story is of Sage, an orphan boy who is picked up along with two other orphans by a twisted patriot, whose aim is to train one of the boys to take the place of a dead prince of a kingdom on the verge of civil war.
The plot had a good enough twist, even though I suspected it early on, that I was still second-guessing right up till the Big Reveal.It's about a cheeky boy named Sage, who gets plucked (unwillingly) out of an orphanage by a shady noble with a plan.
I'll bet I know what that shady noble wants him to do!Or that's what I imagine you'll say, anyway.And you're right!This guy has bought (because you can buy orphans in this book) four different boys, in an attempt to turn one of them into The MISSING Prince.
If the first chapter is any indicator, this book is great. Read the sample on a train ride, and let's just say, the description is great, it starts off with action and a touch of mystery, and I totally love the main character. Moving this way up on my to-read list.
4.5 stars. Bruh. This was so good. Wow. Best beginning to a fantasy series I've read in a LONG time.
With that in mind, I am very pleased to critique this unique, wonderful, and gripping novel.The False Prince is the story of a 14-year-old orphan named Sage, who lives in Carthya, a kingdom on the brink of civil war.
Only one of them will be installed as the false prince, and Sage is determined to win and stay alive.I genuinely enjoyed this book because it was reminiscent of The Kiss of Deception, one of my favorite books.
I highly recommend checking out The False Prince on Audible.Sage was undoubtedly my favorite character.
The False Prince is a welcome addition to my shelf of favorite books.
Seems like I can't say no to a buddy read with my pals at Buddies Books and Baubles.
Middle Grade books are fun to read sometimes because I don’t have to put a ton of thought into them.
Sage and his discordant ways are easily likable and I enjoyed how he turned every obstacle into an advantage.
That didn’t stop it from being enjoyable though and I sped my way through the story very easily.
The friendships that Sage built with them along the way were some that I know will play out more in the upcoming books.
Well that turned into an unexpectedly awesome story. Definitely the best start to a fantasy series that I've read in SO long! I love how Sage's first person narration kept secrets from everyone, including the reader. The main character was hilariously witty & reminded me a bit of Artemis Fowl. So if you liked those books or the Ranger's Apprentice, this series seems similar!
4/5 stars!Picked this up on a whim as my library had the audiobook available and I really liked the cover. This was surprisingly good and I liked the story overall, although being fairly predictable (the main downside) and most of the characters were fun to read about making it an interesting story :)
When he finds himself one of four boys bought by a wealthy nobleman with a dastardly plan to gain control of the throne, Sage must use every trick at his disposal to outmaneuver the other boys and convince the kingdom that he is fit to rule.Review: The False Prince is the first book in The Ascendance Trilogy, and when I finished this book I was incredibly thankful that there are more to come while, at the same time, lamenting that I did not have the next installment NOW.
This book was such a treat to read and I am so glad I started 2015 with it!
I really enjoyed the characters and I just had a lot of fun while reading it.
Although this book is located in the YA section in Barnes & Noble, I definitely think it has a middle grade feel to it.
I think some readers will have problems with the lack of world building and the novel being rather predictable, but I was enjoying myself so much while reading it that these things didn't matter to me.
Great characters, great dialogue, so much fun!
This book was so much fun!It would probably be my number one recommendation for fantasy lovers to get out of a reading slump. So fast-paced and easy to read and get into with one of the best protagonists ever. I loved every second of it.RTC.
"You don't believe it's possible?""Just because it's possible doesn't mean it's wise."Witch arched eyebrows, Conner said, "And you claim to have this wisdom?""I claim to have nothing, sir."  Before diving into my review, I should probably mention that I don't really like middle grade fiction. It's one of those genres I hardly reach for, because I often find it boring and unrelatable, but since I like to read a variety of different genres, I still read it from time to time. Therefore, yes, this
My favorite character in the book actually ended up being Tobias, who was supposed to be the cunning but clearly disloyal one; this is one of those times in which I can't help but think how much more interesting it would have been to see things from his point of view.
I knew from the very beginning how the story was going to end, (view spoiler)[and it was obvious that Sage wasn't just an orphan, but that he was actually the lost prince Jaron.
I know most of my friends really loved it, so maybe it's just me, and if you like middle grade fiction and adventure, then this is probably the book for you.
