https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2371.The_Johnstown_Flood
It was the result of the catastrophic failure of the South Fork Dam situated on the Little Conemaugh River 14 miles (23 km) upstream of the town of Johnstown, Pennsylvania, USA, made worse by several days of extremely heavy rainfall.
The dam's failure unleashed a torrent of 20 million tons of water (4.8 billion U.S. gallons; 18.2 million cubic meters; 18.2 billion litres) from the reservoir known as Lake Conemaugh.
In The Johnstown Flood, David McCullough gives you all as well as the heart and soul of this heinous catastrophe.
The event is fading into memory as time passes and other tragedies occur.
What a magnificent story of impending doom, all that could be easily avoided were it not for human greed and lack of caring about the "working person" by 19th-century capitalists that built the dam and the mills as well as the managers than ran the town's industry as well as the town itself.
An excellent museum of the flood is in Johnstown, too, with a chilling electronic diorama of the disaster as it unfolded.
Many of his students are sympathetic to his most radical critique of society as their parents and grandparents had lost those steel mill jobs that were, as typical, replaced by "McJobs" - low income, few/no benefits or security, etc..
Most of the people in Johnstown never saw the water coming; they only heard it; and those who lived to tell about it would for years after try to describe the sound of the thing as it rushed on them."Exceptionally well written and researched exploration of the incredibly horrific Johnstown, Pennsylvania Flood, and the contributory causes, both natural and man derived, inadvertent and neglectful, which killed over 2,000 people, decimating entire families and wiping complete towns off the map.
Some people would later swear they heard factory whistles screeching frantically and church bells ringing....."FOUR **** Historical Exploration of Integrity ***** STARS Note: I was inspired to seek out this nonfiction work after reading Mary Hogan's novel: The Woman in the Photo.
Please read the GR book description.
It is to the point and absolutely correct concerning the book's content, the author's manner of writing and what future generations should take note of.
The danger is that when one reads about a calamity involving many people those who suffer become a mass with whom one cannot identify with.
He simply reads the lines in a clear and factual manner with an excellent speed.
http://images.google.fr/imgres?imgurl...Another very good book by McCullough.
I have given it four rather than five stars simply because I prefer biographies more than a book about an event.
This book should be read by every American.
Every human.
I don't really say that often, but this book is incredibly important.
He tells this story with such detail and authenticity, and yet makes it compelling, harrowing even, and utterly human.
The socio-economic disparities that marked the line between who died and who didn't, the regular warnings ignored by the populace because of their yearly repetition without any actual events, and the response of the nation of generosity and outrage.
This book, written in 1968 about events in 1889, is proof that we are repeating the history we haven't learned.
During the day in Johnstown, the situation worsened as water rose to as high as 10 feet (3.0 m) in the streets, trapping some people in their houses.Between 2:50 and 2:55 p.m. the South Fork Dam breached.[13] A LiDAR analysis of the Conemaugh Lake basin reveals that it contained 14.55 million cubic meters (3.843 billion gallons) of water at the moment the dam collapsed.
Miles of its barbed wire became entangled in the debris in the flood waters.Some 57 minutes after the South Fork Dam collapsed, the flood hit Johnstown.
I picked up this, the first of McCullough's three "civil engineering" micro-histories, to scratch my itch of a notion that the flood was a seminal event in US history.
The Johnstown Flood was a seminal event.
As we will now try to forget the inundation of New Orleans.Long way of saying, thank you David McCullough, for interviewing the now-deceased survivors before they died, and reviewing the newspaper accounts, and packaging it into an entertaining and readable narrative for modern-day-armchair-disaster tourists like me.
He gives chapter and verse for events and actions in a way that doesn't settle himself and his own interpretations, opinions as central or a larger sideshow.
That's 5 star.This particular tragedy in the way that it occurred was because the earthen dam was not built nor was it maintained to any safe engineering degree.
And it was a sign of the times that the horrid outcomes were not held monetarily or in most other ways held accountable in aftermath.It's hard for me, a flat lander, to understand the unconcern for living in a hole between mountains and river systems, to tell you the truth.
Go high if you want to look at hills and water in combination.
Or even for just water views alone.
Perhaps it was my morbid curiosity, about the details of how the South Fork dam was improperly maintained, how it broke, and the ensuing rush of a wall of water down the valley.
And then a fire broke out, threatening all the people trapped in the maelstrom.The dam was earthen, meaning that it was primarily made of dirt.
The dam was repaired at one point in time, but the work was not planned or overseen by any engineers at all.
But the truth is that everybody who had a connection to the dam assumed that somebody else, someone knowledgeable and responsible, had overseen the repairs.
One couldn't find a better divination that it is time to read a book unless one stumbles upon a pressed butterfly in a Nabokov or dirty photo in a Henry Miller at the Library (which reminds me I need to start carrying butterflies and McGill postcards into public libraries regularly).
There are certainly better academic historians (Burlingame, etc), but McCullough's skill at telling a story and bringing his story-telling flair to the 1889 Johnstown Flood, makes the history of this very American disaster not just a moving story, but a very good social history.
Not everyone is cut out to read good nonfiction.
Whoever says "Live in the moment" needs to remind people that the future does arrive eventually.
I believe we are hardwired through evolution to worry about being attacked at this moment and avoid doing what we have to protect our future.
Training by knowledgeable people is important.
Most of the improvements in life came as a result of good government.
I dog paddle for a few minutes and then drown.
They wanted the dam and cut down trees that allowed a greater runoff.
In this case, the original Dam was properly built to support a trans-Pennsylvania canal in the early 1800s.
The Dam fails ten years later.
The flood kills 2300 people (about 1 in 10 in the valley).
Johnstown was already flooded due to large spring rains, but up to 1-2 feet in the center of town.
There was a large railroad viaduct, then held for 10 minutes fill the valley behind it to the same level of water as what had been in the original lake prior to failing which strengthened the water as it collapsed all at once.
McCullough's specialty is narrative history, and this book does not disappoint. His descriptions of the life of the town, and its sudden and violent death are vivid and astonishing in equal measure. The technical aspects of the disaster are not glossed over, neither, and the irresponsibility of some is a warning which has become forgotten, and only too many parallels can be made to other disasters in recent memory.
Anyways, I'm not gonna go on and on, I just mention it because recent events added perhaps a particular resonance to this reading.Anyways, the Johnstown Flood is, on a sociological level, a lot more interesting than most other 'natural' disasters.
Shortly after the dam's completion the canal, along with the need for the reservoir, was made obsolete by the rise of the Pennsylvania Railroad.
His ability as a writer, along with the unique circumstances of the event, elevates this from a standard disaster tale and makes it an informative and engaging snapshot of a particular period of American history.

A wall of water, estimated by modern scientists to have been as high as 60 feet in some places, came crashing through a valley living in the shadow of a dam built to create a hobby-spot for the ultra-elite of the day- Carnegie, Mellon, and all the railroad and steel royalty of the time.
That sort of tragedy, thank god, is so far removed from my own life that to read about it is literally beyond comprehension- I know that its terrible, it shakes me in my bones, but I continue to feel  safe  myself.McCullough did a fantastic job of setting the time and the place, leading you into these people's lives, their personal histories in this beautiful, forested valley, and in introducing you to a valley forever changed by one large storm, and one poorly maintained dam.
David McCullough has a genius for telling stories that compel, fascinate and engage.
There was a flood, the damn broke and a town was flooded.
McCullough elevates this sequence of events into high drama few fictions would rival.
In this tragedy, McCullough holds a mirror to the society of the time.
From the corruption that resulted in a weakened dam endangering thousands to the newspapers taking advantage to increase sales, McCullough tells the story and extrapolates significance.
I absolutely love McCullough and sincerely enjoyed this book.
This is a highly human account telling the stories of regular people before during and after the tragedy.
I am reading this book as Memphis is on the local news about flooding...interesting timing.
But most of all, I am reminded about a great flood in my childhood which occurred in 1972 in Rapid City, SD, near my hometown.
That year 238 people died in a flash flood, reminiscent of this one, although no dam was the culprit for that flood.
The Johnstown Flood was over 10 times as bad.
Why didn't I learn of it in US History class?
It was interesting to learn about all the dramatic tales, rumors and lack of litigation that went along with this event.
Zzzzzz....Some background is necessary, but do we really need to know the entire history of the frigging dam? (including the names and physical descriptions of all the people who so much as *glanced* at tlhe damn dam) and the physical make up of its dirt? Maybe so. But I don't want to read it. ......zzzzzzz......
The Johnstown Flood: The Incredible Story Behind One of the Most Devastating Disasters America Has Ever Known by David McCullough 302 pages★★★★I love David McCullough.
He is a great historian and his books reach to all kinds of people (not just a big history geek like myself).
He has had quite a career, writing history books for nearly 50 years.
Johnstown Flood is his first book, published in 1968.
I really enjoyed it.For whatever reason, I’ve always been fascinated by disasters (natural or otherwise), the bigger the better so this book was right up my alley.
In 1889 an earthen dam holding back a large lake, burst and flooded Johnstown, PA and other small towns in the valley below.
The lake was made for a fishing club where wealthy people, including Andrew Carnegie, who came from nearby Pittsburgh for a quiet time in their "cottages" , three story structures oozing with money.
The inhabitants of the small towns in the valley below had occasionally worried about the dam which had been repaired, obviously badly, a dozen years before.
The stories of the survivors are riveting, such as the man who jumped from rooftop to rooftop as they whizzed by until finding one that seemed sturdy enough to hold.
Imagine the horror of having the warnings about the breaking of the dam during heavy rain and the rivers/lakes overflowing known but not getting to your ears until the rushing waters packed with trees, train cars and houses come crashing into your house and washing your whole family away.
I could hear the waters rushing to destroy the town and its people, feel the terror of people seeing loved ones or neighbors killed, and experience the pounding hearts of those crashing through town on their roofs or drowning in train cars.
The flood started because of a dam at a club for the wealthy wasn't constructed properly and it ended with multiple deaths.
One of the history books in my collection that I can easily re-read many times.Re-read 2018I've received the new book by Al Roker on the Johnstown Flood called Ruthless Tide and wanted to re-read this prior to reading the new book to find the differences in the two books, so far there are quite a few.
The books seem to focus on different angles, this is more on the victims of the flood.
Roker's book is on why the flood happened.
Incredible historical detail. I listened to the audio book and had to really concentrate at times to not lose track of all the characters. David McCullough builds up to the flood so the reader has a thorough understanding of the economy, geography, transportation, and sociocultural make-up of Johnstown in 1889, before getting swept into the actual flood disaster. It made me think of our experiences with 1997 Red River flood and Hurricane Katrina.
This is a straightforward accounting of the tragedy of May 31, 1889, at Johnstown, PA. Having visited the site of the former dam, and the Flood Museum, I knew some of what was discussed, but still found the material to be of interest. So many lives and property were destroyed and yet no one seemed to pay the cost except for the victims themselves. Greed and indifference took their toll.
When I was a kid growing up outside of Pittsburgh, our then home was forever being flooded by a near-by creek. Mother would always say, "It could've been worse. It could've been the Johnstown Flood," and then get down to the business of cleaning up the mess. Now I know what she meant.
The super-rich show typical hubris, not allowing any payment for damages they caused.
McCullough starts by giving us some history of the community and the dam, moves into eyewitness accounts of the 24 hours before and after the disaster itself and then spends considerable time on the aftermath, including the clean-up, the national horror, the wave of support and the public outcry against those who could or should have prevented the tragedy in the first place.At times, it can be hard to keep track of all of the characters.
Nonetheless, the plethora of detail is remarkable and really humanizes what could be an overwhelming and abstract idea (e.g. 2000 dead, hundreds of buildings destroyed, etc.)I was perhaps most struck by how the disaster is not over when the flood waters recede.
Fifty years after its original publication, The Johnstown Flood remains an enthralling volume of social history.
David McCullough ably and compassionately tells the stories of the humans involved in this unfathomable disaster and is able to transport a reader back to 1889, colorfully setting the scene and then rendering it awash with flood, fire, and death.Even at the disaster's most desperate moments, McCullough channels the impressive willpower of the people of Johnstown and those who flew to their rescue, including the indefatigable Clara Barton.
This was a very good book. I learned a lot about the Johnstown flood. It is unbelievable how tragic this was.I did not know it, but over 2,200 people died as a result of this flood.The only improvement I would add to the book would be to write an Epilogue through today.I do not know if they built a new dam there or not. I do not know what they did in order to be sure that the problem does not happen again.Since I live in Pennsylvania, I would like to visit Johnstown someday.
