https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/222661.The_Infinite_Way
Joel Goldsmith is a modern day mystic and has a refreshing grasp of the spiritual/metaphysical aspect of reality--which is, in actuality, the source of all reality. I really like this guy. He'll expand your mind, for sure.
Joel Goldsmith wrote quite a few books in his lifetime, but the Infinite Way succintly summarizes what he came to believe and practice. The interesting aspect is - despite his Christian background - his affinity to Zen. He shows us that mystics and masters of different religious backgrounds often end up saying the same things, because there is only the Oneness - the I AM that I AM. For those of you who like Joel, I would also recommend Virginia Stephenson.
If I hadn't previously read a few of his later works, I might not have appreciated this book at all.All this said, I did find his good, basic teachings to be contained in the book, of course: 1) "There is but one Consciousness, God." "As a wave is one with the ocean, so you are one with God." 2) "Meditation is the door to the realm of the soul." 3) Meditation is prayer, and the true prayer is the "contemplation of God and God-activities." 4) "'What is God?' ---- 'I AM'".
Joel Goldsmith is one of my favorite authors. I learned so much about life and the world, but most importantly The Way. It's a Christian based read but much more than what is in the Bible. It is how to see life and to take on a perspective that is much more than just obedience. It's understanding Truth.
Awesome book!! Can't believe the depth of spiritual insight Joel had back then. Highly recommended for anyone who wants to understand grace. Without a revelation that man is one with God, this book might tweak ya a little bit.:) Hands down one of the best books I've had the pleasure of reading in awhile and I work at a bookstore...lol
My Bible
$10.952 copies
This is the second of Joel Goldsmith's books that I've read (the one I read isn't leather bound and I'm not sure why Goodreads insists on listing different hardcover and softcover versions of the same book).
I enjoyed "Practicing the Presence" a bit more than this one, but I'm going to reread "The Infinite Way" because I'm sure I read it too quickly.
He writes well - I'm sure he had a very good editor - and his language is clear and to the point.

I am learning ...
This is my first Joel Goldsmith book.
The book does a competent job of stripping away common misconceptions about mistaking material reality for all reality that includes the divine from a Christian context.
The book also does a decent job of explaining spiritual concepts of Jesus' mastery over the material world and plugging into or becoming the divine that is already in us.
What is lacking is the connection between thought and being.
This may be a matter of his skill as a writer but it also has to do with a world view that doesn't embrace the sacredness of creation, the physical.
The Infinite Way is a beautifully written book that addresses the way to live life at the highest level of spiritual consciousness. The book concerns the Way or teaching of Jesus Christ, but in a very general manner drawing on the message of other religions. Joel Goldsmith wrote in very clear and simple terms, but having a very deep message as he explains "The activity of Truth in the individual consciousness is the only Christ." If you have a love for spiritual books, The Infinite Way is a must read. http://www.returnoftheway.com/
Great spiritual principles are hereThis book is written by a sincere follower of God and outlined principles for spiritual growth. It was useful for me and I hope will do the same for you.
This book can change your life.
Me encantó!
This is one of the BEST books I ever read. Very enlightening, full of much Truth, and easy to read and understand. I highly recommend it!!!
Excellent book on the God-experiences of a Christian Mystic. I highly recommend this if you are interested in healing or a different perspective on living out your Christian faith.
I struggled through 140 pages & threw in the towel. I'm not particularly smitten with the artist's style of writing, I didn't find any profound truths, just some esoteric ramblings.
Although the book is written with a Christian influence, Joel Goldsmith's take on this subject is quite readable and thought provoking.
This is a great book for those who are spiritually awake and on the path of resurrection.
