https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/185579.Rees_Howells
Just wow . . . This was amazing. It both inspired and convicted me, uplifted and challenged me. I learned so much about the Holy Spirit and intercessory prayer. Grubb's writing style kept me engaged and interested, and I loved the inclusion of direct passages from Mr. Howell's diary. Highly recommended!
This book blew me away and stretched me spiritually like none other. It's an old book that would likely not be a best-seller in today's get-rich-quick health-and-wealth teachings passing as the Gospel. This is a true man of God who gives the whole of his being to following and serving Jesus. This is not your book if you're looking for a "be happy, healthy, wealthy, and popular by following these 7 steps" kind of books. If you're ready to go deep and be challenged, check this book out.
Looking back, a lot of what I read about prayer hurt me more than helped me.
After coming out of the place of frustration in prayer, I realize that it is very easy for people to be healed if we understand what Jesus has done.
Jesus carried it, and dealt with it.I am convinced that in this instance, Reese was deceived by an afflicting spirit that came on him and told him he was bearing the sickness of another person.
The book is certainly worth reading, but we must not put people like Reese Howells on a pedestal just because they prayed a lot.
There are several stories that don’t seem to ring true with God’s character -- in particular, Rees Howell’s story of total surrender to God. Howell's account sounded as if God somewhat high-handedly forced him into surrender.
He gives us free will, and is never pushy with his children.Also, the book speaks of an incident when a man refused to call a doctor for his sick child because he “felt led”.
I did love the stories of how the Howell’s community in Wales started to reach out to the sick, the needy and the jobless.
Rees Howells committed himself to be a follower of Jesus Christ during the great Welsh revivals in 1904 and 1905.
He was given a particular gift of intercession resulting in miraculous and near-miraculous deliverance of persons, families, communities, and even political situations.
His degree of devotion was intense, and characterized by asceticism and Christian mysticism.
Rees Howells strikes me so much that I wondered and marvelled at the liberty the Holy Spirit had in working with and through him.
I gasped repeatedly in my spirit literally sighing at such depth of selflessness, knowing fully well that this was not really about Rees but about Christ.
Cos this is no doubt a man who stands among the masterpieces of God in that gallery of faith clearly portraying the life of Jesus to the rest of us.
I was moved when I read it but my prayer is to actually move to this kind of life in all it's fullness - living only for Christ's glory even at the expense of physical convenience.
If someone searches for real examples of victorious faith life 19s he sourly has to read this book.
I recommend it to all who are not satisfied whit their life 19s and are searching for the key of understanding Gods will.
This book humbled me because I realized that we are all the time expecting great things without to surrender and pay the price needed to give birth to great things and we are not realizing that the kingdom of God has his laws and we really can live according to them a victorious life.
Earlier I shared that I found this book insightful, especially about Second Birth, and I enjoyed reading about this remarkable man. But I took issue with his distinctions between prayer warrior and intercessor. I don't buy his distinction, though I can't deny that his prayers bore fruit. They sure did. But really, God did. My own personal take on prayer is that the outcomes are up to God, not us. Sometimes in reading this book, I felt that the emPHAsis was being put on the wrong syl-LA-ble, giving perhaps more credit to the instrument than to GOD who plays it.
This is a must-read, if you want God to take you to a higher level in prayer. Rees Howells was an ordinary guy--what we'd call a blue-collar worker--but God used him to do extraordinary things, as he surrendered himself to the Lord's will. See how the Father healed, witnessed, raised money and even directed WWII though this man of faith. I cried and laughed and just sat in awe more times than I can count. It has enhanced my prayer life and changed my expectations of how God uses men and women of faith.
Rees Howells surrendered all to live out the call of God on his life. This book had a powerful impact on me as I read and learned and "saw" through Rees Howells' life what it means to be sold out completely and to live your life for an audience of One. This is a must-read for those on a path of spiritual growth.
This was an incredible testimonium of the power and difficulty of intercession. It's about true empathy, feeling the pain (sometimes physically) of the one ur called to pray for. Howells faces some intense situations and experiences difficulty in being conformed in obedience to Christs will. This is a encouraging and exciting read.
This book was incredible, I couldn't put it down! God has used this book to challenge me deeply and I feel stretched in my faith, wonderful! I'll be recommending this book to anyone who will listen! Rees Howells was an awesome man of faith and I for one want to be like that!!
An essential work documenting the life of an ordinary man prepared to do anything for an extraordinary God. From the Welsh Revival to the failure of Nazi power, God can use any man to influence history.
If you've ever wanted to learn of the life of prayer and or what is meant by the term prayer, this is an awesome resource. The life of Rees Howells was a life supernaturally lived through the power of prayer. God was never early, but He was never late.
An absolutely incredible book about the power of prayer! It challenged me in ways I did not anticipate.I plan on rereading bits of it, just to remind myself that our prayers matter and that God responds to faith and faithfulness.
A Book That Will Change Your Life!So many people I know personally have been transformed by this story. This is a book for the ages, the life of a man wholly devoted to God in prayer.
This book radically changed my way of prayer - I believe i pray with more belief than before - made me think alot!
An inspiring and challenging biography of an individual who single-mindedly gave themselves over to God, did everything in their power and more to obey Him in all things, and who dedicated much of his life to mission work and intercessory prayer as God gave Him burdens of things to pray for.In reading about the dedication and commitment of Howells to obey God in all things, I wondered where this sort of life has gone in the church.
We sure need to be dedicated to follow God and be burdened by what burdens Him like we see in the life of Rees Howells.
He would pray for hours at a time contending for breakthroughs for individuals, the region, and later the world.
It is challenging and encouraging.
Encouraging to see what God will do when His people pray and challenging to me as an individual - am I contending as I could?
I think I enjoyed seeing the results for him locally more than the impact on world events - yet what might have been if they'd not so intentionally prayed during the years of the War?
Through reading about the life of this incredible man, I learned so much.
I learned about what a true Intercessor looks like- someone who chooses out of love to suffer alongside those who are suffering in order to pray for them and to gain victory for the kingdom of God. That is true compassion.
It revealed what a relationship with God looks like when there is absolute trust and faith.
I am inspired, full of joy, and totally jealous for the life Rees had.
I walked away from reading this book having gained insight and wisdom.
Wow one of the best reads. I recived this Jan. 4th read it by Jan. 6th. Reread it two more times just to make sure I remembered what I read. I also allowed it to be borrowed by one of my pastors. He is so excited to read it. I am sure he and his wife will enjoy it. When I get it back I will read it again and then let it out again.
An inspirational account of what it looks like to fully submit oneself to the will of the FatherAny Christian looking to go deeper in their walk with the Lord needs to read this book. You may not be called to submit this fully to the Lord, but you will finish this book understanding His provision, His faithfulness, and His heart.
Prepare to be challenged and awed at the marvelous God we serve and the amazing things He chooses to do through ordinary people like us.
Very inspiring. Really taking prayer and Intercession to a higher level
This book took me months to chew through! It was full of testimony upon testimony pushing my level a faith a bit more each chapter.
One of the most spiritually challenging books i have ever read. Made me question what a life of faith lead by the holy spirit could really look like?
This book had a profound impact on me
Not my typical book. My karate teacher gave it to me to read. He had a very interesting faith-filled life. Similar to George Muller.
Life changing! Read, apply, and your prayer life will never be the same.
An eye-opening account into the power of intercession. Not always am easy read, but well worth it.
