https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/52377.I_etcetera
Memore di tali saggi moniti, una volta terminata con fatica estrema questa silloge di racconti editi da Susan Sontag nel 1978, non dirò “Che schifo!”, ma mi limiterò, come sto facendo, a scrivere che a mio avviso è uno dei libri più irrimediabilmente brutti, soporiferi, supponenti e privi di senso che mi siano mai capitati per le mani.
L’impressione che se ne ricava è che, per cercare ad ogni costo la letterarietà del risultato, la Sontag perdesse di vista una cosa essenziale: un racconto può essere lambiccato e scombinato quanto si vuole, ma dev’essere in qualche modo interessante o piacevole; se si scrivono cose noiose, non diventano affascinanti perché si fa il cut-up, si fa simbolismo spinto, si spezzetta la prosa o si allude senza dire; anzi, si ottiene l’effetto contrario: rompere le scatole al lettore e irritarlo.
Stories1.
"Project For a Trip to China" -fragmentation, trashing narrative continuity, seems to be a main goal for the entire collection.
Not sure what one can say about this first story.
Is it meant to be against interpretation?2.
"Debriefing" - you tell me.3.
"American Spirits" - oneiric; a look at the debauched 1970s; lots of group sex.4.
"Dummy" - An office worker builds a mechanical replica of himself to take over his life, which it does with a few amusing hitches.
"Jekyll" - cryptic; something about gurus and never being satisfied with who you are; mostly a hash; experimental.8.
Experimental.
"Everything. – then I won’t have seen everything before it disappears.Everywhere. I’ve been everywhere. I haven’t been everywhere, but it’s on my list.Land’s end. But there’s water, O my heart. And salt on my tongue.The end of the world. This is not the end of the world."
Why have I avoided her fiction for so long! It just makes me like Sontag even better. Theses stories are like a confused, emotional part of herself, one that she takes and uses creatively and seems at ease with (at least on the page). For Sontag who has always been so controlled and who's praised being serious as a virtue, this collection is really eye-opening. Some of the stories were also just plain good. (I'm thinking of Baby & The Dummy especially.)
Los demás cuentos, por otro lado, tienen un estilo que por momentos recordaba a Cortázar en su sencillez discursiva y la irreverencia del narrador frente a hechos que rayaban lo fantástico, y conjuran una atmósfera en entero reflexiva, sin los obstáculos del Ardis, del Palacio.
No obstante, todos los cuentos tratan el tema de la subyugación -a los padres, a los hijos, a los sistemas, a uno mismo, al pasado- como naturaleza del ser humano, y la 'libertad' -irónicamente retratada por Sontag- como disidencia física, mayormente violenta (verbigracia la muerte del Nene, los crímenes de Jekyll, la renuncia a la Organización, los viajes y el sexo como escape del pasado o la rutina), única forma de quebrar cadenas.
La primera historia, para mí, se lleva 5 estrellas.A medida que avanzaba más, decrecía mi entusiasmo. En general ha sido una bonita primera experiencia con la autora.
Susan Sontag seems always struggling in writing novels. She claims she sees it as her permeant career, but readers hardly notice her novels, except for Volcano Lover. In this book, several short stories. I like them, they are really really speaking of something that is quite common nowadays, but the way she wrote it seems way to shallow for Sontag's big name. She tried to mute some characters' voices, nice move. But she could do better. Actually I believe she did better in The Benefactor and Death Kit. These short stories are not that catching eyes.
"Yo, etcétera" es un volumen conformado por diversos relatos disimiles, Sontag parece transformarse en cada uno de una manera fascinante.Recomendado a quien desee una lectura que, siendo variada, es sumamente ávida y fresca a cada línea.
Short stories written by someone too intelligent to write short stories.
But I don't think there were really stories here, in the sense of circumstances that evolved, that were affected by the passage of time.
In some stories, like the last, about travel, there were flashes of lyricism, which was good.
But that didn't happen often enough through the collection.Sontag's style is slightly formal, and based on the evidence here, she can't quite get away from that in her stories.
It came across as kind of dated, these cultural concerns that I think Sontag means to explore here....
I think this is the second time I've been let down by Sontag's fiction.
Susan Sontag is at this point so well known for her controversial political ideas and her works of criticism like Against Interpretation that her fiction goes largely (and unfortunately) overlooked.
This collection seems drawn out at points, but is great overall, especially for escapist readers.
Sontag's fragmentary writing recalls Barthelme but is used in a way that comes to be much more intimate, the reader is given a glimpse into individuals' lives in each story.
The standout stories were Debriefing, American Spirits, and Old Complaints Revisited.
Though admittedly I'll need to reread to make an attempt at explaining why and how I was moved by these in particular.
i have been these past several months on a not-too-intense search of used bookstores for the editions of various of sontag's books that i want, since i so despise FSG's current covers—and though back in the end of october, myopic books had no essays, it had, weirdly, two different editions of I, etcetera, and one was this one, the one I didn't actually think I'd find but which amused me, the one that in her LRB essay Terry Castle describes as having the cover that was the same as the poster that every queer girl in college hung up in her dorm room.
the first story is "project for a trip to china" which is why i was reading this during my 14-hour flight to china, and with an additional 2-hour delay, with the AC drying my eyes, i was not able to create tears at all.
why should i cry, i don't know, but it's hard for me to cry when i try.
anyway, my eyes were burning as i finished this, and the drawn out process of trying to read through squinted eyes exhausted me, so i didn't end up liking this too much.
i don't know, but i recall getting too excited over someone with the username i_etcetera."3.5"
I have a very smart staff member who has been on a Sontag kick lately, so I finally buckled under the pressure and ordered some of her books.
I could just picture someone in the 1960s being like "this would be a groovy way to deconstruct a narrative!" Since Sontag is primarily known for her essays, and since I love reading essays, I'm ordering those too (they are just taking longer to arrive) and I expect to prefer them.
I'm thinking I'll find her a bit like Joan Didion where the nonfiction is amazing and the fiction is not to my taste.
I LOVED the first story... about preparing to go to China. Then, the rest (except maybe the last one) were well written, I guess, but sorta made me uncomfortable. I know I'm supposed to love Susan, and I do... the photo on the back of this edition is drop-dead gorgeous... but she really challenges my comfort zone when it comes to wanting to sit back and read a book of short stories. I want to be intrigued, entertained and moved... not left wondering why I feel like I've had an acid flashback.Did not read all of it... couldn't.
"I, etcetera" has been my first approach to Sontag, and it hasn't gone very well; on the contrary, it has been quite a bumpy road. The short stories are more like notes, often jotted down without a logical or chronological order, which makes the reading much heavier and less enjoyable. However, I have to reckon there's grace and light in her manner of writing. I just have to find the right Sontag fit for me.
Like many people, I know/admire Sontag for her essays, and so was maybe set up to be disappointed by her fiction. The first few stories were not my favorite and seemed to solidify that Sontag maybe approaches fiction as too much of an "exercise", but some of the middle stories (particularly the one about the cult/secret society) I thought were clever and entertaining. However, by the end I was feeling underwhelmed again.
I loved Project for a Trip to China and was excited to see the rest, but none of the other stories really lived up to that first one. American Spirits was interesting. Old Complaints Revisited was far too long and unreadable after the first twenty pages. I appreciated the experimentation but most of it just didn't work. Even when you're trying to rethink the narrative, you've got to consider your audience.
I read a short story called Debriefing by Susan Sontag and for a moment I was in NY city, lonely and depressed, on edge. I really enjoyed this short piece. Her writing styIe, rambling, using short clips and held together with solid descriptions (especially in the story called Unguided Tour) painted vividly the near panic and desolation of the narrator's condition.
I have never read Sontag's fiction before this and it struck me as more revelatory than her criticism. The narrators here have the clipped, stream-of-strange-consciousness sensibilities you find in, say, a Lorrie Moore story, but are more baffling and metaphysical. The first story in particular raised hairs on the back of my neck.
Very mixed bag. First couple stories I liked a lot, the others not so much. There are great lines and observations in almost all the stories but they get rarer and rarer. What surprised me was how many of the stories sound like castoff Barthelme pieces. I hadn't realized how near their territories were to each other.
I'm cheating slightly as I finished about 90% of these stories. I really liked how the details were left open just enough that just when I thought I had the group/person figured out and was certain the next page would tell me I was right, the story ended. Don't know if I will ever finish it though...
Tough, sometimes even overwhelming stories which ironically show struggles in life, incompatibility, disappoints, doubts, uncertainty and in the end, this all mix of feelings and thoughts closed in hard words are surprisingly motivating. Sontag did not let down my expectations, again.
While I really enjoyed this collection, I found myself bored with some of the stories - namely Baby. I could not care, unlike the story of Julia, her beautiful dead friend. I loved that one and re-read it, along with Unguided Tour. I will be reading more of hers, for sure.
jarring, disconnected, staccato style of writing. Not my cup of tea.
ps- I like her essays on Benjamin, Artaud, etc.I, etc.
I loved the story _Notes from a trip to China_, in particular.
Link to booklog
Susan Sontag is brilliant and the ideas and notions in this collection of stories are absolutely genius. Unique writing and definitely thought provoking.
3.5
