https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/890137.The_Lemoine_Affair
Hardly a novella, but thankfully finally translated into English as part of Melville House's The Art of the Novella series, The Lemoine Affair occupies a curious place in Proust's work.Written over a period of four years (1904-1908) before Proust began to conceive and draft what would become his monumental A la recherche du temps perdu, The Lemoine Affair is a series of pastiches written in the styles of a variety of authors ranging from Balzac to Flaubert, from Sainte-Beuve to Saint-Simon.
You think this would be either a work of a journalist (Proust) commenting on the crime, or a sort of a true-crime narrative, but this is ...without a doubt Marcel Proust.What we have here is Lemoine as a subject matter, but Proust choses to riff on the idea of this con-artist as literature written by Flaubert, Galzac, and Saint-Simon.
So its a parody, but also a lit-crit book on the side.
Without a doubt a must for the Proust fanatic, and after all, this is the first English translation of this small, but interesting work of literature.
In order to escape the influence of other authors and to find his own style, Proust decided to write various parodies inspired by a real-life financial scam. He wrote in the style of Honoré de Balzac, Gustave Flaubert, Charles Augustin Sainte-Beuve, Henri de Régnier, Edmond and/or Jules de Goncourt, Jules Michelet, Émile Faguet, Ernest Renan and Claude Henri de Rouvroy, comte de Saint-Simon.
3,5Ingenio y agudeza! Es lo que me viene a la mente para definir este libro. Marcel Proust se vale de su prodigiosa pluma para imitar el estilo de los grandes de la literatura francesa como: Balzac, Flaubert o Goncourt, sin dejar de lado la mordacidad crítica de Sainte-Beuve y el no menos intrigante Duque de Saint-Simon. Como abordarían el escándalo Lemoine cada uno de estos escritores, esa es la finalidad de este libro. Personalmente lo logra con creces.
No es una historia en sí, son pequeños escritos en donde Proust imita la forma de narrar de diferentes escritores y periodistas. El nexo de unión es que todos tratan sobre el asunto Lemoine aunque sea de forma muy vaga. La verdad es que no me ha gustado nada.
Lo que pasa cuando te estafan, y no te queda otra que pasar el tiempo imitando magistralmente a tus pares. Definitivamente, un buen ejercicio de pastiche. [4,5 estrellas]
The reader is implicated for knowing Balzac’s style, characters, and social milieu that only Balzac could create and did create in his Human Comedy.
Yes, polar bears.Proust’s pastiche will go on and imitate the supercilious criticism of Sainte-Beuve; it will, through a parody of Symbolist poet Henri de Régnier, turn snot into a diamond; and the Goncourt Brothers will gossip that Proust had committed suicide, only to find out to their chagrin that he is alive.
Before the reader closes the book, Proust provides pages from historian Jules Michelet, theatre critic Emile Faguet, philosopher Ernest Renan, and social gossip, Saint-Simon.
I keep vascilating between 3 and 4 (as if it matters, of course!), as it is a weird book in the way that Proust, a legend, imitates other high literary priests of his age, which, i mean, i have not seen done anywhere before.
i realize i'm taking a mixtape approach to describe these books tonight, but it's almost like a rapper taking beats from other rappers then trying to imitate their voice and flows and doing it so well that the reader is lost, at times to a point of spoil.
i am hopeful of making my way into rememberance later this year.
if you already love proust whole-heartedly like i do, you will want to read this novella of impersonations & you may find a lot to enjoy in it / however if you haven't read IN SEARCH OF LOST TIME, it would be a profound mistake to begin yr discovery of proust here / in other words hunker down & read the masterpiece
proust makes fun of people but the problem is that we don't live in france 100 years ago so we don't know who they are.
It's incredibly well-written and, had I known what and whom Proust was satirizing, I imagine I'd have liked it a lot more.
Please note that the byline is fake news; this is not a startling tour-de-force. I cannot think of one time, while reading these opaque pages, that I felt startled. In fact, I was more startled by the lint I found in my navel this morning; I need to stop looking, no good can come of that.
Curiosidad. Proust imitando los estilos de varios escritores franceses. Conclusion: Saint-Simon era un coñazo.
Pastiches by Marcel ProustHere is a dilemma:Would you like to be like Proust?- It may seem obvious that the answer must be a loud Yes!And yet, Proust himself laments on the subject of being “blessed” with an extraordinary intellect.- You are lucky, you have the books, and you write and have these intellectual preoccupations.In different words, this jealousy is expressed in some of his volumes and the answer given is that, at least the character would give it all up for happiness.The writer’s or
Pastiches by Marcel ProustHere is a dilemma:Would you like to be like Proust?-	It may seem obvious t
Marcel Proust (1871-1922) foi um escritor françês, cuja obra prima é o colossal Em Busca do Tempo Perdido tendo como título original À la Recherche du Temps perdu .
Uma obra de sete volumes escrita por Proust e alguns dos seus volumes foram publicados após a sua morte solitária, pois nesta altura da sua vida , vivia completamente isolado.Esta personalidade assenta também num homem homosexual que pertencia há burguesia francesa.
Na verdade é que ele conseguiu mesmo que pessoas investissem no seu projeto e um deles foi mesmo Marcel Proust.O absurdo da situação é explorada por Proust nesse sentido.

Feel like maybe the translator got it wrong, or maybe it's just a lackluster book.
I mean, not everyone always has stellar output.
Feel like the imitations of the other authors was okay, but really believe that this may be the kind of book that's meant to be read only in the original.
I mean, I guess I'm not entirely sure I trust this translator to not only translate accurately but also to replicate the styles of balzac, flaubert, etc as they are commonly translated in English.
Seems like a ton of research, no translator's note to back it up.
(sigh) getting through this tiny volume was a minor trial. this is atypical proust: shorts, surrounding a real-life scandal, each 'written' by a different person he's satirizing. all tiresome. parody does not age well. it can't help but remain trapped in the time it mocks, what with all of the minor places, events, & public figures that fill it.but i kept reading because damn if there was a brilliant phrase or sentence hidden among all the courtly frigging chatter every page or two.. just often enough that i thought the frequency might increase.. alas.
Mi mayor error en lo que va de año. No es que esté mal escrito (aunque esté a años luz de las poco más de cien páginas que he leído de En busca del tiempo perdido), sino que es un ejercicio estilístico soporífero. Con esfuerzo, puedo ser capaz de apreciar los capítulos al estilo de Balzac o Flaubert, pero jamás podré sentir el menor interés por los amiguetes de Proust o los personajes de la alta sociedad francesa de la época. Demasiado endogámico para mi gusto.
I enjoyed this much more than I thought I would. I knew going into this that I would not get most of Proust's references but decided to give it a shot anyway. I definitely enjoyed all the different perspectives and writing styles that added together give a seemingly more complete view of Lemoine's claim and the subsequent fallout and trial.
This beautifully packaged series of classic novellas includes the works of Anton Chekhov, Colette, Henry James, Herman Melville, and Leo Tolstoy. These collectible editions are the first single-volume publications of these classic tales, offering a closer look at this underappreciated literary form and providing a fresh take on the world's most celebrated authors.
I'd never read any Proust and chose this while I was spending a few hours at the library. I loved how he created this novella, mimicking the writing style of a handful of different authors. I'd love to read more Proust.
Intermittently hilarious, despite my almost-zero knowledge of the literary world of Proust's day.The last section was mysterious to me (I couldn't figure out the joke, try as I might), but I did find myself using another section to talk about Tea Partiers with John later on.
It's a testament to Proust's skill as a writer that he could deliberately write an awful work that still managed to be sublime in its own way. The "excerpt" from a Flaubert novel and its accompanying review is now one of my favorite diptychs.
Si eres estafado, escribe un libro burlandote de ti mismo.
"Un bombón literario (...) del renovador de la literatura europea" Víctor Fernández, de La Razón.http://www.larazon.es/noticia/8736-es...
9 makaleden oluşan bir novella bu; Proust'un notuna göre, elmas yapımının sırrını bulduğunu iddia edip insanları dolandıran ve sonra da 1909 yılında 6 yıl hapse mahkum edilen Lemoine davası ile ilgili kaleme aldığı bu makaleler aslında bir "pastiş" imiş.
Şimdiii yukarıda, taklit edilen eserleri bilmek gerek ama bu gönderme pastiş içine yedirilir diyor ya, ben de diyorum ki o eserler bilinse belki daha iyi mi anlaşılır metin?
Uzuun cümleleri okurken, Proust okuyanların yazdıkları yorumları hatırladım bu arada😄 Haziran okumalarımda olmayıp araya kaynak olan ilk kitaptı bu, bir tane daha var böyle bir kitap onu da bi ara paylaşırım.
Then again that person would most likely prefer the original french.Background: Marcel Proust was one of the many caught up in a then famous scandal known as the Lemoine Affair.
Lemione, once exposed and convicted, disappeared.From this experience, and its associated publicity, Proust got the idea to write this book.
At best I could enjoy the shots taken at a style of writing and had to take on faith that the arrows were on the mark.A few words about the Novella books themselves I think the series is out of print and the used copies can be pricey , it was a great idea.
the fact i couldn't bring myself to surmount the long final chapter ('long' for this is piddling in terms of most literature) is a giveaway (i rarely abandon books, especially not 15 minutes (according to my kindle) from the end).
there were a smattering of good bits (particularly the too brief flaubert section) but as others have pointed out pastiche is a poor thing in translation, especially when a lot of these authors are so obscure now (in the english speaking world at least) that there isnt even a chance of familiarity with the source.
but we should be grateful that proust got this out of his system and could become himself
