https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/195992.A_World_of_Love
Jane, a young woman living with her parents, her sister, and Cousin Antonia, an eccentric older relative, in Antonia's old house in the Irish countryside, is stuck in a reality that offers little excitement until she happens to find some old love letters in the attic.Those letters are written by Guy, a ghost from the past, fallen in the Great War. He was Jane's mother's fiancé.
The older generation is forced to remember the long lost feeling of love, and they start to reconsider their present relationships and to rearrange themselves in the fragile world they have built upon the ruins of the lost friend, rival, and lover.
Eventually Guy’s cousin Antonia persuades her to marry Fred, a roving farmhand, and take possession of Guy’s house.
The older, Jane, one day finds some old letters in the attic and Guy’s ghost is let loose into the house.
The five main characters in this novel are all fabulous as is the dialogue they share.
Lilia is a familiar Bowen character, the disappointed woman who has married beneath herself.
They compete for influence over Lilia’s daughter Jane whose sexuality is awakened by finding and reading the letters.
The sixth character and maybe the best of all is the house and surrounding landscape.
The house was owned by Guy, who died in WWI, leaving his cousin, Antonia, as heir.
Troubled that Guy had died without leaving a will, and without marrying his fiancée, Lilia, Antonia finds herself interfering in others lives.
Indeed, for me, the central relationship of the novel is that between Lilia and Antonia, which Bowen writes wonderfully.
One day, in the heat of summer, Jane discovers a packet of love letters from Guy, which triggers all sorts of memories and passions from those in the house.
He had not finished with them, nor they with themselves, nor they with each other: not memories was it but expectations which haunted Montefort. Written in exquisite prose, this is a novel which requires close reading - like Bowen's The Heat Of The Day, much of the substance of the book resides in the not-said; the significance, for example, of a long-estranged married couple sitting under a chestnut tree 'almost apart'.Taking place in the liminal space between the past and the future, the stor
Written in exquisite prose, this is a novel which requires close reading - like Bowen's The Heat Of The Day, much of the substance of the book resides in the not-said; the significance, for example, of a long-estranged married couple sitting under a chestnut tree 'almost apart'.Taking place in the liminal space between the past and the future, the story is an intimate one, emotionally claustrophobic, and heightened by the unexpected heat of an Irish summer.
Bowen, with delicate perceptiveness, unpicks the tense, fragile and yet freighted bonds in a family: a marriage built on misunderstandings, a cousin tied to her relations through resentments and a kind of need, a girl on the cusp of womanhood.
There's a sort of brittleness about Bowen's writing, something ethereal even when she's writing of jealousy and desire.
Bowen's eighth novel started with great promise, terrifically written physical description:The sun rose on a landscape still pale with the heat of the day before.
Jane, a 20-year-old living at a decaying Irish manor house owned by her parents' friend Antonia, finds a packet of love letters in the attic from Guy, who formerly owned the house and willed it to Antonia before being killed in the Great War. Guy had been Jane's mother, Lilia's, fiance.
"By the time she looked to see what was happening, the wadge of letters was in his hands..."She also introduces a brand new character in the last couple pages, which is just wrong.
A loosely related Anglo-Irish family living in a large country house experience a range of emotions.
That sounds very similar to a previous book of Bowen's I read; both have the same intensity of feeling and very little actually happens in either, but they are not all that similar in feel.
While the family in "The Last September" were becalmed awaiting the winds of change, this family are shipwrecked by something that happened many years earlier.
Neither family understand each other all that well, but there is not as much affection or goodwill towards each other here.
I think i will try one of her books set in London next.
This is a marvellous book. You can't just say it's because of this or that. Bowen builds a microclimate inhabited by just a few people. The tension between these people is one of the major themes in the book. The characterisation is phenomenal. The book begins with a staple of letters by a former lover of the mother that is found. Then a satirical drama unfolds itself. It's never boring, it's an interesting world circling around these letters. It's also a book in which love underlines subtly the whole story. One word: subtle.
A World of Love is the first of Elizabeth Bowen's work that I have read and I found her to be quite the wordsmith, with sophisticated punctuation and unusual sentence structure; ie: "Heavy was the scent, rank the inside darkness which filtered through." And heavy is the psychological drama of this short novella which delves into the complicated emotional relationship between several people living together in a crumbling manor house in Ireland.
Now even Jane begins to fall under Guy's spell as he reveals himself to her in his love letters.
Or maybe I just don't have enough imagination and understanding and need to have things spelled out.I have never been one who could accurately predict what comes next.
(Quibble: I always got it right if the question is "what do you think...", but unhappily that wasn't really the question.) The ending in this seemed quite out of the blue and felt totally unrelated to the rest of the novel.
Refer to paragraph one: I can't read between the lines.I must remark on the non-standard sentence structure.
This should have been a quicker read, even for this slow reader.
Strange sentence structure it has, this novel. A long time reading it I in the end took.
;) That said, this scene does work, since you can almost picture the past reborn.In regards to the characters:Antonia: At times, her relationship with Guy reminded me of Cathy and Heathcliff, i.e. after Cathy’s marriage...that selfish teasing...playing with each other’s emotions getting joy out of witnessing each other’s pain.
Guy told her, you’ll never be rid of me and in some ways, she never was.
In some ways, these two things are her selfish obsession, even though she knows neither of these two things can be realized.
She’s essentially a young innocent, whose heart has been awakened, yearning for a first love.Maud: Oh, the bells, the bells!
Elizabeth Bowen wrote 10 novels between 1927 and 1968 - this is a slender one from 1955.
The implication is they are from him (signed with an occult squiggle) and while it is likely they were addressed to one of the two older women, there are hints it could be neither.Although the tangle of decades of barely submerged family drama occupies the bulk of the story, the romantic and social awakening of Jane is the note on which it ends.
Sometimes I love Bowen, sometimes she bores me to tears.
And this is pretty easy to explain: when she's writing about peoples' relationships and the way we're always talking past one another and not saying what needs to be said, she's fabulous.
When she's describing landscape or interior decorating she's almost always insufferable.
Unfortunately for this short book, there's too much landscape and not enough people not quite relating to each other.
Also, what is with all the Yoda speak?
(Okay, I made that up, but you get the point.) Is that how Irish Protestants speak?
Anyway, read Bowen, but read The Last September or The Heat of the Day instead.
It's good to read authors of a bygone era occasionally, and Bowen is always pleasing in style. This slim novel packs a large wallop. It is a methodical and devastating portrayal of remnants of the Ascendancy trying to hang on to --- what, exactly? --- while airplanes and 'modernity' are gaining a tenuous hold in staid Ireland.
The sort of soap opera plot did not draw me in. But her beautiful writing and thoughtful meditation on what death means were eventually irresistible.
There is much to love about this novel. I personally admire the last line "They no sooner looked but they loved.".
i swear the first half of this is 'the sundial'
My first Bowen outing, and I felt more like I was reading a rough draft than a finished novel with a working title.
Bowen I am certain is a brilliant writer based on the vivid glimpses I saw in this novel, but more work was definitely needed to flush out the characters and some of the scenes where the action was confusing and you couldn't really tell what was going on even by reading in between the lines.
Overall, not my cup of tea, but for those who love a character driven novel may enjoy this, but if you want action then you will want to skip this one.
A well written okay read about a group of characters in a rural setting.
The eldest daughter, Jane, discovers letters that are around 30 years old, from a young man who died in World War I.
The mystery is that we do not know who the love letters are written to until near the end of the story.
This book is more suited to readers who enjoy a character driven novel that creates a special moodiness.
The younger daughter, Maud, is quite a character and provides comic relief to the more serious characters.
As a reading experience I preferred Elizabeth Bowen's A House in Paris.
This has its moments (usually physical description) but it’s one of Bowen’s worst novels. Midway into it she loses track of what she’s writing as she writes it, like late Faulkner, and unsurprisingly like Faulkner she wrote drunk and didn’t take edits.
Much as I love Elizabeth Bowen, I could not get this book. The writing was brilliant as usual, but so strange and dreamy that I couldn't really follow anything. The fact that she was also known for her ghost stories makes sense to me.
I used to love Elizabeth Bowen, but not so much anymore. Stilted, overly precious---
На полку "дочитать на пенсии". Написано хорошо, но в метро под нее засыпаешь, уж больно все неспешно шевелится.
Three Irish Women Between Past, Present and Future: A World of Love by Elizabeth BowenAbridged version of my review posted on Edith’s Miscellany on 18 October 2013In her 1955 novel A World of Love the Anglo-Irish author Elizabeth Bowen evokes the atmosphere of a decayed rural manor in County Cork, Ireland, in the early 1950s to tell the story of Antonia Montefort, Lilia Danby and her twenty-one-year old daughter Jane.
To my taste there could be a little more action and the unconvincing end comes rather too sudden, but for the rest it’s an interesting and easy-to-read novel.Doing some online research on A World of Love I found that it probably isn’t Elizabeth Bowen’s best work.
In this slight novel she examines one small family living under the shadow of Guy, a young man who died during WWI.
Antonia determined to take care of Guy's fiance Lilia, by manipulating her into marriage with another distant relative, Fred.
Lilia and Fred have two daughters Jane, a young adult and Maud, a lonely pre-teen.
Within the confines of the constricted socially accepted behaviours of the period, this small group must find out what the truth is and what it may mean to each of them.I find Bowen's style a little bit contorted at times.
They have all the ingredients of a book that I would love--female protagonists, first half of the 20th century British setting, romance (without being A Romance Novel), but the characters always seem so distant, so unrelatable, that I don't particularly care what happens to them.
She does write beautifully, but I can never become immersed in a book without being able to put myself into the shoes of (at least) one of the characters.
Nonetheless, I'll probably try reading more of her books in the hope that I just haven't read her masterpiece yet.
This is one of Bowen's later works, and unfortunately, my least favorite of hers so far.
However, it didn't really work for me for two reasons.
First, everyone in the family is just a little too weird, which made them feel like caricatures instead of real people (a real oddity for Bowen here).
Second, the prose was actually too complicated so that even with close reading I couldn't always tell what was happening and how people were feeling.
I felt like this was Bowen's attempt at modernism, and she just frankly didn't do it well.
Bowen's most explicit, and perhaps least satisfying, ghost story; A World of Love turns on a number of relationships spun as if they were golden gossamer threads of the past trailing the hollow bodies of the living present – only, hold up, wait because many of the characters seem, while whole in and of themselves, glaringly solipsistic and uninterested in each other. Still, of Bowen's works this one must be considered a success if not as translatable or startling as, say, The Last September.
Jane, a young woman, lives with her family in the english countryside between the wars.
Her family came about out of a marriage of convenience, brought about by the death of a betrothed cousin in first war.
One day however, she finds a bundle of letters in the attic that awaken her to the world of love that existed before her birth.
Although this novel is one of "100 best of the 20th century," most of the time, I couldn't really figure out what was happening during the awakening.
It sort of reminded me of a Thomas Hardy novel, without the drama.
This book was written in 1954.
It's a story about a group of relatives living at Montefort, a decaying manor in the Irish countryside.
Jane, who is 20, discovers a packet of love letters in the attic that were written by her mother's one-time fiance who died in World War I.
It's not really clear who the letters were written to, but the effect on the family is like opening a Pandora's Box. In this book Ididn't like any of the characters, so it's hard to really care what happened.
But so little happens." "Apprehension was seldom at rest in her..."
