https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17997475-the-vikings
This moderately interesting and entertaining overview of the Vikings is a quick and easy light read.
Most of us know that the Vikings were both fearsome and fearless warriors who were infamous for their raping, pillaging and killing.
Mr Wernick informs us of their exceptional navigational and ship building skills.
The Vikings managed to go where no-one else had been before.
He traces their travels to, amongst others, Iceland, Greenland, the Shetland and Faroe Islands, Ireland, England and the Americas.
There is an entertaining dose of saga and mythology to keep the reader's interest.
I came away from this book loving the viking era. There was a lot of bad from the vikings, but there was also a lot of good that came from some of the things they did, and there's some nuggets in this book that were intriguing. I highly recommend this book to anyone interested in Scandinavia and/or vikings!
A Good Capsule History of the VikingsAn entertaining and informative read that covers the Vikings from beginning to end. I learned a fair bit of history from it.
This is the perfect book for someone to get on overview on the history and culture of the Vikings. It is well written and covers almost every aspect of the Viking age.
Good introduction to the explorations and accomplishments of the Norse.
The VikingsA very interesting telling of Viking history. Vivid descriptions of life and strife in the early times of west European history. Worth reading twice.
Easy to read, very varied, good illustration.
Perhaps more is known now about Vikings and the exploration of new lands via northern routes, than generally allowed to be assumed publicly, especially in US - children are still taught about discovery of the continent by Columbus as the first person to do so, which is incorrect not only due to the presence of humans on the continent - (which Columbus did not in fact step on, being at one of the islands of Caribbean, and returning therefrom after making his sailors swear they had in fact discovered India, which is the root of the US still referring to indigenous as Indian, knowing fully well that such name is a lie - those people had nothing to do with India) - but also because in fact Nordic Europeans, specifically ones referred to as Vikings, had in fact known about the lands across the ocean, and even had not only stepped on the mainland but lived there for many centuries before dying or giving up and returning, due to the lack then of mass migration.

This book is about the history of vikings their cultures, explorations and wars. While is is an older book it still gives you a good look at the viking lifestyles. It also explores their leaders. Who they were, and where they explored. Everyone remembers how vikings attacked towns and killed people took hostages and robbed the countryside but little is discussed about the governments that they set up and the "legal"system that set up punishments consistant with the crime committed. This is an interesting read.
This is light popular history, a quick and informative read. The first few pages were a little over the top in selling the subject, but on the whole the book was filled with interesting tales from the sagas and bits of history (like the settlement of Iceland and Greenland) that I knew very little about. To my surprise, the chapter on Viking ships was interesting even to someone like me, who usually finds this type of technical information deadly dull.
I highly recommend this book. It is history made as exciting and as entertaining as possible. As a Norman descendant, I have studied Viking history in some depth, and found this book to be an excellent and accurate summary. The writing and editing is superb. If there is even one editing error, I failed to notice it.
Author's journalism background pays offAlthough we don't learn much about him here, Werniick's journalism background pays off in this well-written, well-organized treatment on The Vikings. The author has a website which introduced me to the word sciolist, as well as his other works.
It was a quick overview of Viking history. I'm interested since I'm 1/4 Danish Viking. My paternal grandfather was Danish. I'm now reading another Viking book. Part of my interest is because of genealogy. My grandfather's last name was Boyer which isn't a typical Danish name so trying to get an idea where else we came from.
Holds your attention as well as a good novelI learned a great deal which having studied English lit and European history, I should have learned in college. Absorbing read. Only wish there had been more documentation.
I'm giving it 4 stars because the Vikings are part of my lineage and I wanted to learn more about it. I know more now and, beyond the savagery of this time in the history of our planet, it had excellent factual and contextual information.
Not a bad readGenerally this was a well-written piece, not a fan of the r tone it was written in. Felt very much like I was reading something meant for an 8th or 9th grader throughout.
Good overview of Viking history, mostly contained stuff I had run across in other sources. It's well-written and fairly engaging, and is probably about as thorough as you can be regarding a period of history during which very little was written down.
An interesting overview of the Vikings. This book was a quick read and seemed to incorporate up to date information regarding Viking exploration, colonization, conquest, trade, navigation, and ship building. I would recommend it to anyone looking into this ere and culture.
This book is purely being rated by it's ability to keep me interested. While I found parts interesting, I always fell asleep within 15 minutes. If you need a sleeping aid, this book is it. I admit I didn't finish it, but I need a book that I can actually read!
I really enjoyed reading this one back when I was in middle school. Now that the History Channel has a series called the Vikings, everything I learned in this book has come to life.
Very hard to read through, more a textbook than a readable nonfiction. Lots of good information but it just couldn't keep me reading. A book to use as a reference, or a quick lookup.
It's an interesting read for me since I am of Scandinavian descent.
Interesting account of how Vikings came about and how they eventually faded away.
An overview of the Vikings reign, influence and exploration. Moves quickly through history with general depth and detail.
Good overview if early medieval history through the Viking lens.
Enjoyable and compact history of the Norseman. Filled with re-caps of Viking sagas.
Very good. Informative.
Good book for a broad overview of the Norse.
I mostly only knew of the Vikings by myths, and very little facts. This book is very well-written and tells of the real Vikings which were great Sailors. Enjoy!
