https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/827597.Word_Power_Made_Easy
"A new word is not just another pattern of syllables with which to clutter you mind --A new word is a new idea to help you think, to help you understand the thoughts of others, to help you express your own thoughts, to help you live a richer intellectual life." pg.
141I immensely enjoyed this book.
It is a interesting read on its own, as well as a reference guide and a grammatical aid.
It is a perfect tool for someone looking to expand their lexicon, whether they be in their teens, twenties, thirties or older.
It's perfect for logophiles and those who are striving to increase their literary education.
I highly recommend this book to anyone interested in words or their etymology.
An excellent book on improving your vocabulary.
'Word Power made easy' was broken up into categories based on what you might require.
Each category revolved around a central theme which helped to hold everything together when learning.
Apart from introducing new words, defining them and using them with other inter-connected words, there were also useful information on the origins of words, the roots, prefixes and suffixes which went a long way to learning and using the words.
This was a great book and I will definitely purchase a new copy since I don't have it with me.
Originally reviewed at my blog: http://jrlovesbooks.blogspot.in/2013/...I didn’t have any exposure to vocabulary building books before I decided to pick Word Power Made Easy by Norman Lewis.
It is a friendly relationship with the reader and making him learn many, many useful things.The idea that Norman Lewis upholds in the entire book is “No Learning Words.
I still remember many stories about the words that Norman Lewis tells us, and it still brings back the scintillating memories that I’d get while reading them.
Norman Lewis knows how to teach vocabulary in a way that helps new words stick.
He uses etymology as the scaffold to help build a knowledge of many related words simultaneously.
My two favorite etymologies were both words derived from the Greek root phanein, to show.
The second, the word diaphanous, uses phanein, to show, with dia-, which means through.
All words are reviewed multiple times in exercises throughout the book that use a variety of ways to measure recall and understanding.

The second best way is to read this book.The approach the book takes to teach you new words is to explain their etymology and then to make you work with them.
That way you don't have to make great efforts by yourself to memorize them.I found it really interesting to learn the sometimes strange and quirky origin of a lot of words.
It made me realize that words are not just simple associations of meanings with sounds.
A wonderful book!! Bible to those who want to learn vocab!! Its more of an exercise oriented than theory!! A very good experience!! After completing the book, I felt very confident in replacing many words with its thesaurus!!I recommend for everyone to go through this and practice well for improving your language!!Did this while preparing for my GRE and it was very much helpful!!
This book by Norman Lewis is the first step for a scholar to start the journey of building a good vocabulary. New words are explained with easy steps and the exercises in the end of each chapter help the reader to test himself before moving further. This was the first book I picked with the sole intention of learning some new words for the sake of it. :)
It is a book about how to improve your vocabulary and it does so in a very different manner. A short anecdote is attached with each words. As written in the books every word is associated with an idea. By learning new words, we are expanding our horizon of knowledge. The explanation of each words with their corresponding origins help the readers to engulf the words very conveniently. I think every one should give this book a read.
This is a great book for building vocabulary. A must-have for students preparing for competitive exams which test language skills. This book is easy to read and is divided into a number of sections which test your vocabulary as well as grammar. Also has a wide range of Synonyms, Antonyms, Paronyms, Idioms and special phrases. The comprehensive tests given in the book are a tad bit difficult but if you read the book thoroughly, you will be able to solve them.Grab a copy soon if you want to improve your spoken as well as written English. :)
READ THIS!!! great for enhancing vocabulary and etymology skills
Great book for to build one's vocabulary , It provides reader with a Idea related to a word , a memoir related to that word so that person could attach to that and word remained instilled in his/her mind .
It tells the origin and relation of words like 'Bibliophile' , Its made from Latin word biblio for books and Latin verb philein , to write .
It guides about a society of words "like words to insult one's enemy' or 'word's to talk about people' or 'words to talk about doctors' etc .
An excellent book for english language beginners.I can't even think of any other book for vocabulary.
A nice way of expanding the vocabulary, with friendly tone and activities that actually help.
Very good
This book taught me that words can viewed and understood in such a paradigm where words play the role of the whole and prefixes, suffixes, and intermediate parts play the role of the pieces.In comparison to other books on etymology, only this book and the Merriam-Webster's Vocabulary Builder were able to keep my attention long enough to make it all the way through.
I am certainly better off for reading this book and would recommend it to anyone looking to expand their vocabulary and have fun while doing it.After reading this book I very much regret that I did not take Latin in high school when I had the chance!
The book deals with a very mundane topic: teaching you a few 100 or even 1000new words.
Making such a book engaging is very difficult task for any author.
Ithink Norman Lewis did Justice to the subject.This is one of those books everyone starts but no one finishes.
Unless you have a compellingreason to finish this, its going to be difficult.
The 2 chapters that follow analyzes the etymologyof the words in depth, introducing a lot of new similar words in the process.Frequent repetitive exercises help you remember the words.
A pragmatic approach to building vocabulary, organized according to common topics of conversation (albeit dated at 1949 when originally published). Includes a how-to for assessing your present vocabulary at the onset. Almost entertaining (how to topics include how to talk about personality types, doctors, liars and lying, speech habits, enemies, how to flatter friends, how to talk about complex ideas, attitudes, etc). Brief with respect to etymology/roots. Helpful for pronunciation, with comparisons among words with similar phonemes and/or syllable sounds.
Highly recommended to those who wish to improve their vocabulary, discover new words and to those who wish to realize the fact that they have been speaking Greek and Latin their entire lives without even noticing it.DO NOT be intimidated by the number of pages. It is really intuitive and will keep you occupied for hours. Definitely beneficial if you are planning to give exams like SAT, GRE, GMAT, CAT etc.
The very best book to develop and improve our vocabulary. This book systematically teaches us about word roots, its origin, derivations, etc. A must-have reference book for students, professionals, literary personnel, etc. This book helped me, who not a native English speaker, to excel in my communications, both oral & written.
Great book that completely solves the purpose of improving English vocabulary. This book also provides great insights into the English language like word roots, some special exceptions and lots of other interesting things.I would recommend that if you are interested in vocabulary building then please own a copy of this one.
The best in the vocab building genre. The foundation course for all future vocab books. The approach to etymology and the emphasis on its significance is superb.Not for the reader who wants to learn a quick word or 2. I should like to quote the first 2 lines of the book:"Dont read this book...This book is not for reading!!!"
This is an awesome book by Norma Lewis. And the fun fact is that you can find it the house of every avid reader. Ironically, very few enough have been able to reap the rewards of this awesome book. I just have one opinion about this book. If you are patient enough, this book will literally make a beast out of your vocabulary.
This was a great vocabulary book, one of my favorites so far. The roots to the words really helped me learn them. I really liked it when the word had a story or history behind it. I don't remember all the words from this book, but I came away having a much larger vocabulary.
This book changed the way I think and experience new ideas. I learned to see roots and connections in everything, as well as the logic underlying the english language. If you want to build your vocabulary, this book is the one!
A must read (actually a must do, as you have to work through this one). My favourite of the vocab lot. Lots of roots, etymology, tips to enormously increase your vocab. Of course, you also learn how to flatter your friends and insult your enemies:)
great book to learn vocabulary. I prepared for my TOEFL with the help of this book. I learned what is etymology and what "George" means or how the word "Congregation" is put together. lucid writing, good logical explanations and easy to remember tips.
Brilliant!
Best vocabulary book ever!
One of the best book I ever read. I don't know how many times but I feel same love for it everytime I take to revise my vocabulary
