https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19082.The_Complete_Works
Anyone who has even the slightest interest in Philosophy has to of course read Aristotle.
However, reading the Ethics, Logic, Poetics, Physics and Metaphysics are satisfying in their own right.
Aristotle's Nicomachean Ethics are probably the most insightful and useful reconstruction of human ethical life that has been written.
The Poetics are an exceptional source for an understanding of Greek Tragedy.
And the Physics/Metaphysics are vital for anyone interested in the history of Religion and science, both because of his mistakes and because of the methodological insights he develops.
Plato used a story format and addressed more interesting topics whereas Aristotle often feels like he talks more about semantics.
Both their influences have held back science, and perhaps in Aristotle's case, social progress.
He focused on this world because we can observe it, though interesting still believed in an ether in the sky and had many similar ideas to Plato with out intending to.
I didn't read all of this collection, but focused on various significant parts as well as contributions from scholars.Favorite Quotes:"It is the mark of an intelligent person to entertain an idea without accepting it." "We are what we do repeatedly.
The Complete Works of Aristotle, Volume 1 includes: Categories, De Interpretatione, Prior Analytics, Posterior Analytics, Topics, Sophistical Refutations, Physics, On the Heavens, On Generation and Corruption, Meteorology, On the Universe, On the Soul, Sense and Sensibilia, On Memory, On Sleep, On Dreams, On Divination in Sleep, On Length and Shortness of Life, On Youth, Old Age, Life and Death, and Respiration, On Breath, History of Animals, Parts of Animals, Movement of Animals, Progression of Animals, Generation of Animals, On Colors, On things Heard, and finally Physiognomonics.Before studying Aristotle, I recommend reading or having a solid idea of the Presocratic philosophers such as Thales, Anaximander, Anaximenes, Xenophanes, Heraclitus, Parmenides, Melissus, Pythagoras, Anaxagoras, and Empedocles.
Aristotle is one of the foundation authors on which I base my personal philosophy and he is also one of the greatest thinkers who ever lived.
We only have what were notes to his lectures, yet reading them I feel the power of his mind is always present.
His powers of observation were unsurpassed and the connections that can be made between the concepts developed in the different books helps to develop a better understanding of his ideas.
I would recommend Aristotle for those interested in the foundations of philosophy (along with the Dialogues of Plato).
Aristotle is the master's master; he is, as Dante says, "the master of all who know."
Aristotle is one of my right hand men. I just picked up this book about a month ago. I plan to read it in the near future.
It should be a testament to my devotion to Aristotle that when I got all my books out of storage last weekend and had to pick which ones to load in my massive backpack so as not to go over US Airways' fascistic luggage weight allowance, I picked these (as well as Gotham and a bunch of others).
It's hard to fathom Aristotle sometimes.Anyway, I appreciate the perspective in Nicomachean Ethics much more than anything Plato ever wrote even though I'm fond of Timaeus and Gorgias, and the skeptical spirit that infuses Aristotle - plus his assumption that reality, physis, is infinitely granular - is worth taking in and then emulating.
I chose to read "Nicomachean Ethics", "Politics" and "Poetics" because it was on The New Lifetime Reading Plan by Clifton Fadiman.
Aristotle does a great job of reasoning through all of the good and bad points in a logical progression.
Loved what he says in "Politics, Book VII, Part 13": "This makes men fancy that external goods are the cause of happiness, yet we might as well say that a brilliant performance on the lyre was to be attributed to the instrument and not to the skill of the performer." His comments on poets (Homer, Aeschylus, Sophocles, Euripides) and their works shed a more contemporary critic.The New Lifetime Reading Plan: Number 13
I will not be giving a philosophical review of the writings of Aristotle for want of a focused topic. However, it is my belief that an understanding of Aristotle is fundamental to an understanding of our circumstances - he should, must be read. The scholar who wishes to make use of an index would do well to consult "Bonitz's Index Aristotelicus (Greek) or Organ's Index to Aristotle (English)" (2467 V2) for reasons indicated by the editor Jonathan Barnes and my own experiece using the provided index.
“He dared to ask and he thought over it, he questioned existence and sought enlightenment in its truest form. Till date most of the pages hold true because human nature is still the same. Its his lifetime of thoughts encapsulated in these volumes, one cannot just read and put it down. To comprehend the whole text will take this lifetime. Will keep coming back to it always for reference and guidance. ”
When approaching this collection of works it is important to keep in mind the fact that many of the books enclosed, have prerequisites. For example, it is expected you have read "Logic", and hopefully "Ethics" when you approach "Rhetoric".
Assigned for Philosophy class
The writings and teachings of Aristole. Thought provoking. A little difficult to read.
So far have only read 'Categories', 'Prior Analytics', and 'Posterior Analytics'. A giant of a mind! A is A.
Very thick and hard to get through. Unless you're a philosophy professor, stick to Aristotle's Nicomachean Ethics.
"Happiness is an activity of the soul in accordance with virtue." —from the Nichomachaen Ethics Um, need I say more?
I prefer plato, aristole is beyond me.
A good starting point for anyone interested in philosophy, makes for an enjoyable read.
to read this book
this is very heavy dialectic. not for a feeble intellect.
Where do you begin with this tome of human wisdom? If you're a serious thinker, Aristotle is a must. It's astounding that one man could have so many insights on so many subjects.
the only editions that have the access to all the works of Aristotle. excellent for anyone who loves the ancient philosophy. :)
