https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11711.Vernon_God_Little
I will attempt to make this review quite long, so that you will read a realistic account of the quality of this book before you read the boorish and thoughtless dismissals that abound below.The common thread of said dismissals is a denunciation of 'Vernon God Little' as a unrealistic portrayal of the tragedy of a school shooting, similar to the incident at Columbine High in Colorado some years ago.
The uncommon yet supremely smart and tasteful thread of *my* argument to that is that 'Vernon God Little' is only barely about a school shooting.
"I sense a learning: that much dumber people than you end up in charge."I really didn't like this book at all, but I have to admit that it captures the spirit of America in an unpleasantly accurate way.
Vulgar, frustrating, and sad in a farcical way, it shows the kind of (anti-)culture that created the nationwide mess that is now evident to the whole world, and for which the whole world may have to pay.
Meet the unsympathetic, cursing, uneducated antihero and his family in small-town Texas, and you will either laugh or cry, depending on the kind of philosopher you tend to be.
It is like Twitter gone novel.
I honestly don’t know what the judges were thinking awarding the Booker Prize in 2003 to Vernon God Little.
Imagine a choreographed reality TV taken to extreme, and then have someone create a parody of it and that’s what Vernon God Little is.As I said it could all be mildly entertaining but then DBC Pierre inserts those serious bits, because, you know, Vernon’s friends have all been shot and he is accused of murdering them and facing Death Row, and then DBC Pierre expects me to empathise, which is as preposterous as if South Park creators expected me to cry each time they kill Kenny.Maybe it’s me.
Fucken waves, that’s all I know.
Hardest fucken book review I’ll ever try to write, I know that much.
The book fucken touched something painful in me.
So it will show in my review, and if you don’t think you can handle my rawness, you can just quit now and go back to watching Court TV or Doctor Fucken Phil or whatever.
You’re hoping if you know it’s gonna happen but you don’t tell nobody then it ain’t really gonna happen.
And it’s gonna be fucken real.
You don’t know fucken shit.
Well if that’s what you think then you got your own fucken problems cause it ain’t no fun.
My mind was prepared to love it but then I was confronted with the ugliest writing about the the ugliest antihero who was the modern hip hop version of the snivelling little creep in Catcher in the Rye who I've always wanted to go back in time and murder but can't because he's imaginary.
Some other review of this says - quote - as the novel unfolds, Pierre's parodic version of American culture never crosses the line into caricature - unquote and I say - uh, WHAT???
The author is DBC Pierre and the DBC stands for Dreadfully Boring Caricatures.
Both deal with plenty of the following after all: poor suffering mamas and the boys who devastate their love for them; a protagonist's distrust of society at large; a constant mention of fate or other celestial devices (Fortuna's Wheel for Toole, "God" in the title by Pierre); digestive maladies...bile and acid in interplay; the hero being utterly, pathetically, heartbreakingly misunderstood while the law and its enforcement become ludicrous.Martirio, TX (Martyrdom, Texas) is not without its dunces.
That Vernon is always at throes with the law and with himself and with his family makes him effectively endearing to the reader.
My flatmate told me to read this book as it was 'dynamite' apparently. I disagree.I do not recommend. I did not enjoy.
This is a story of Vernon God Little - a 15 year old fellow who was caught at the wrong time in school when his best friend Jesus killed 15 students in his class and later shot down himself...
I really loved it :) And once again my faith on Booker books persists with this one :)Some quotes that I liked :"Fate always pays attention to what you think, then slams it up your fuc*ing ass.""see me and suffer.""What I definitely learned just now is that everything hinges on the words you use.
Does not matter what you do in life, you just have to warp things in right kind of words.""Music is crazy thing when you think about it.
I read Vernon God Little in part because the novel was recommended in 1001 Books To Read Before You Die, a go-to reference when I’m at the library and lost for a book :http://www.goodreads.com/book/show/45...The novel’s storyline charts a standard “outside teenage male observing the world” path.
Coetzee’s Disgrace won four years before Vernon God Little, and people around goodreads wet their pants over that novel.
Fuck me, I don’t know why Vernon God Little won the Booker Prize.

And Vernon is too lost in his own adolescent fantasies and bewildered by the adults around him to convince anyone he’s innocent.Well written and darkly funny with a lot of good satire about small-town Americans and the media, I didn’t enjoy this book much.
It wasn’t because of the dark subject matter, it was just because everyone in it is just so goddamn mind-numbingly stupid that it was hard for me to take.
At times, I found it hard to root for Vernon just because he’s so damn dumb.
Another book read for my coming-of-age encyclopedia entry.
It's pretty clear this book won the Booker Prize because the Brits felt like flipping the bird to America.
Take something topical (school shootings), add an all-too-obvious critique of contemporary society (the media demeans us), add a plethora of cartoon characters (the attention whore of a love interest, who celebrates here boyfriend's imminent execution by posing for Penthouse---natch!), throw in a bunch of supposedly "hip" slang, mix with a motif involving dookie.
What do you get?Dookie.
From the outset I felt a lot of sympathy for Vernon Little whose world view seems to be much wider and keener than the dumb-ass adults he's stuck with in Martirio.
It's difficult to talk about this book in detail without giving away spoilers but basically Vernons trials, tribulations and subsequent trial all highlight the fact that the worst thing in the world can happen in your home town and somehow people will still either want to get on TV or make a fast buck out of other peoples misery.

Well I learned you don't need to spell correctly to win the Man Booker Prize, as long as the misspelling is funnier and more poignant than the original word.What a great ride, our hero the adolescent sane lad in the world of overweight and overwrought large Texan ladies, this book has more villains than a Guy Ritchie movie, and often moves at around the same pace.
I can't wait to read anything else by this DBC Pierre, doesn't write like a Frenchman at all.
I should clean up my mess, seeing as everybody's so antsy, but I feel like smeared shit.
So, decided to give it another go during new year eve.Why I must have liked this?I seem to have a special liking for first person narrations.
Vernon Gregory Little badmouths his mother like anything, it was a rarity on the books as much as I have read.
Call me sick, I laughed more with this book than 'P.G Wodehouse' and 'Jerome K Jerome' combined.Oh yeah, the thought process exhibited in this book doesn't look like, as if it is from a 15 year old school kid, more like a 40 year person fed up with his fucken life and people surrounding him.
If you could sum up Vernon God Little in three words, what would they be?Dark, twisted, hilarious.What other book might you compare Vernon God Little to, and why?The closest I can get is to say it's like 'Catcher In The Rye' if it had been written by Warren Ellis.Have you listened to any of Nick Landrum’s other performances?
Definitely the best book I've read this year (as of the beginning of July, anyway).Taken from my original review on Audible.co.uk
A work relevant to current trends in media and material culture as well as a self-aware twist on the scapegoat archetype. Love the development of Vern's language as he wises up to the thought processes of his pursuers. Excellent and quick.
the novel starts after a high school shooting, and the main character (vernon) is suspected of having a hand in it, though innocent.
also, the last couple sections of the book kind of went off in a weird 1984/big brother/"the american media is out of control" kind of direction that i was not expecting and found heavy-handed.that being said, the narration is done in a great postmodern funky youthful voice (though not entirely convincingly american) and the character of vernon is easy to root for.
The novel is about a 15-year-old kid whose life unravels after he becomes an unwitting accomplice in a Columbine-like school shooting in a small Texas town.
(In order to even get that far, of course, you have to ignore the central implausibility of the book: if a kid was suspected of complicity in a mass murder, they wouldn't just let him out on bail to do as he pleased, and they certainly wouldn't treat him like nothing untoward had happened.
I see that a lot of those that gave it one star often gave up halfway, or where put off by the swearing - but the last 3rd of the book blew me away.
I picked up this unlikely book as it is included on my 1001 things to read before you die, and whilst I was expecting teenage angst, swearing and snarling, I wasn't expecting to be touched so sincerely by characters that seem so unlikable at the start, and in fact spent the last 15 pages sobbing!!Please, give this dirty little whirlwind a chance, and stick it out.
Or is it just a clumsy thought of a depressed teenager?Unanimously, this novel categorized as a dark comedy.
You know I'm in a kind of hating a dark story, while I like comedies.
This novel can also be compared to Arundhati Roy's "The God of Small Things" (no, not because both have the word 'God' in their titles), for its inventive, flexible, experimental use of English words/phrases, while Roy's can be considered as a contemplative one and Pierre's as a not serious one.Finally, my homage to the jury of Man Booker Prize 2003.
At least I finished the book and I thought I understood its message and appreciated its beauty.Beauty this book really has.
Yet, there are thought-provoking phrases (Texan vernacular maybe but maybe not as long as it is beautiful) that will prompt you to stop and analyze and think about it for a second.
The book is also compared to "Huckleberry Finn" and it does have some semblance because of the Vernon's coming-of-age that coincide with his awakening in terms of truth and awareness of what's going on, inclusive of both good and bad, in this world.
It reads like what is wrong with the society - the intrusive media, the TV centric materialistic lifestyle, the attention seekers, the gossip mongers and the complete apathy towards sanctity of human life.Vernon Gregory Little is a 15 year old live victim of a school shoot out whom people with ambition are out to get.
2 things I realizeda) It is not a laugh a minute book like what the blurbs suggested (or I didn't have the required sense of humor)b) Please don't call it a coming of age book!!Despite it being a quick read (and booker winner too - made me wonder about the rest of the books that year) and in the satire genre, this is not a book I really enjoyed.
I can understand why they may be disgusted in its handling of such serious subject matter, and I can understand how they might dislike the titular protagonist.I don't know if it's growing up on South Park, growing up in suburban Texas where all these characters ring true in a hyperbolic manner, or if it's feeling like a red-blooded, black sheep in my high school years that leads me to relate to Vernon to just clench this novel in my fists like a kitten.
اصلا کتابی نیس که بشه پیشنهادش کرد و یا ویژگیهای مثبتش اونقدر برجسته باشن که بشه در موردشون نوشت. میتونم بگم که از وجود این همه شخصیت کودن و یا به ظاهر کودن و اون پایانهی ناگهان خوش و خرم چندشم شد.
اصلا کتابی نیس که بشه پیشنهادش کرد و یا ویژگی‌های مثبتش اونقدر برجسته باشن که بشه در موردشون نوشت. می‌تونم بگم که از وجود این همه شخصیت کودن و یا به ظاهر کودن و اون پایانه‌ی ناگهان خوش و خرم چندشم شد.
'Interior wear', or something way f*cken bent.' If you thought Holden Caulfield was a good example of a teenager trapped in a messed-up system, Vernon Little is THE perfect paradigm (or powerdime like Little says), and Vernon God Little is one million times a better read than Catcher in the Rye.The derision of the novel is mostly directed at the ruthless world of tabloid-like television news, and is quite eye-opening.
Vernon God Little is a must-read.
If you loved Breaking Bad and/or Catcher in the Rye, Vernon God Little is both of these rolled into one.
Superbly brilliant and sublime Post Modern novel, DBC's (stands for Dirty But Clean) is a five star read for me and it will stay with me for a long time to come.VGL is a five Act novel not unlike Shakespeare's five Act Tragedies and written on a similar if not modernist level with the old bard!
Filled with harsh observations of human nature at it's extreme and ugliest, and all this delivered with a language of unrelenting cynicism and word plays (which I loved).DBC seems to hit on so many important issues that we are faced with today, Media saturation, judgement imposing societies, teenage and adult bullying, naivety of the weak verses the strong, and the plot leaves no room for misinterpretation.
The author has a terrific turn of phrase, but the plot staggers around like a drunk and eventually falls flat on its face.
There's an attempt to fill in some of the plot holes with dollops of magical realism, but this is as unwelcome as it is unsuccessful.Although I was engaged with the characters at the start of the book, I quickly lost any interest in them.
The author's colourful personal life probably also tickled the fancy of the London literati.I've never bothered to read a Booker winner since.
A lot went wrong with this first novel, but the most irritating literary offense for me was the way the not-entirely-authentic-but-still-close-enough-to-be-funny Texas dialect gets away from Pierre and spins off into pure nonsense.
Combine hyperbolic pidgin Texas vernacular with a cheerfully misogynist, wholly unlikable narrator, and you get sentences like this: "I surf her upholstery with my nose, map her sticky heem along glimmering edges to the panty-leg, where the tang sharpens like slime-acid chocolate, stings, bounces me back from her poon." Ew. Also, what?
It gets worse.
Think The Chocolate War if it were longer, more bloated with pretentious notions of itself as literature, more anti-feminist, and about a school shooting.
