https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23398606-alice
“Alice dreamed of blood. Blood on her hands and under her feet, blood in her mouth and pouring from her eyes. The room was filled with it.” This is one of the best, darkest and most disturbing retellings I have ever read. The author gets extremely creative with this world, weaving in characters we recognize from the original Alice in Wonderland but telling a very different kind of story. If you like your retellings to stay close to the original, then don't waste your time with Alice - it is ver
The author gets extremely creative with this world, weaving in characters we recognize from the original Alice in Wonderland but telling a very different kind of story.
To find it, Alice and Hatcher are forced deep into the bowels of the Old City, a place run by overlords - the Walrus, the Carpenter, the Caterpillar and Cheshire.
As the girl flexed her shoulders, the wings would beat.”
At the end, I felt like I understood why the author chose to include it and why it had importance in the story, but that didn't make it any less disturbing to read.
Eheheh.I recall the author did not put much emphasis on the appearance of Hatcher, or Alice, for a matter of fact (not that we need it), so I basically imagined my own sexy Hatcher.
She might not know it yet, but I have a strong feeling that will happen if she keeps writing books as good as this one!
As you know, this is a retelling of Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland (a book I was never a fan of).
I promise to start with the flaws and end with the wonders next time.
And you DON’T even have to like Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland to enjoy it.
3/25/18 - ON SALE for $1.99: https://amzn.to/2I1ZA6B9/12/15: When I first read ALICE, I had a hard time categorizing it. It was Victorian, but it wasn't steampumk. It was horror . . . ish. Fortunately, it very obviously a retelling, so at least I had that. BUT. Just having read this article: http://www.dailydot.com/geek/dreadpun... I can now solidly identify it at DREADPUNK. *grins creepily*Reviewed by: Rabid Reads4.5 starsThe first thing you should know is that I bloody hate ALICE IN WONDERLAND
*grins creepily*Reviewed by: Rabid Reads4.5 starsThe first thing you should know is that I bloody hate ALICE IN WONDERLAND.
Usually this kind of thing has me running, screaming in the opposite direction, but ALICE is a perfect example of the difference between dark and crude.Dark means real life Bad Things happen.
I read the whole thing on a Saturday afternoon.I loved the characters, especially our two MCs Alice and Hatcher, who were each other's only solace for eight years in the hospital where they were held.
ALICE by Christina Henry is hopefully the first of many installments in this new weirdly fantastic series--definitely my most surprising read of the year so far.
What's this world, where human traffic, rape and violence are common practices, where the awful way women are treated makes me want to scream?
I was there with Alice, who coudn't annoy me even if she kept following Hatcher around, because after what she lived through, it made sense and she was lucid about her need and their somewhat unhealthy relationship.
Starting Alice, I didn't expect his character, and he surprised me in the best way possible.This said, I won't say that their relationship didn't surprise or make me uncomfortable at times, because it did.
It's trippy the way that every Alice book should be, and full of nightmarish images and themes.
While I've always thought most fairy tale retellings and re-imaginings could use a bit more meditation on the themes of seduction and coercion--it's in the very nature of many of the original stories, after all--I was extremely bothered by the degree of rape and abuse here.
If you are able to look past that--ugh, it pains me to even phrase this in such a way--the book is incredibly imaginative, and just what a grown-up Alice story should be.
The Old City is run by crime bosses, the most powerful are named Cheshire, Rabbit, Caterpillar, Walrus, and The Carpenter.
A raging fire that burns the hospital down allows them to barely escape, and they run to the Old City to try and find the Rabbit and the Jabberwocky, a being of dark magic, who has been released and will devour everyone unless stopped.This was a strange story in a way.
I liked Hatcher and Cheshire the most, I think, although Alice became much stronger and more likeable by the end.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/WARNING: MITCHELL WAS IN CHARGE OF GIFS TODAY SO THINGS MIGHT GO A LITTLE PEAR SHAPED “Beware the jaws that bite, the claws that snatch . . .” Confession time: I hate Alice in Wonderland and Through the Looking Glass and allllll of the movies that have been made from cartoon to Helena Bonham-Carter musey magic. It’s just never been my thing (save your anger – I’ll probably post something more offensive before this review is even over).
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/WARNING: MITCHELL WAS IN CHARGE OF GIFS TODAY SO THINGS MIGHT GO A LITTLE PEAR SHAPED
Confession time: I hate Alice in Wonderland and Through the Looking Glass and allllll of the movies that have been made from cartoon to Helena Bonham-Carter musey magic.
Alice didn’t always live in Old City, though.
Fastforward back to the present where Alice and Hatcher have a chance to escape the hospital.
If you’re looking for a cuddly cartoon version of Alice, you should most definitely look elsewhere.
After her disastrous encounter with the Rabbit, Alice is confined to an insane asylum in the Old City.
However, the Jabberwock is on the loose as well, and to stop him, Alice will have to cross paths with the Rabbit once again...Confession time: While I whiled away many a day playing Dungeons and Dragons, most of today's doorstop-sized fantasy novels don't hold a lot of interest for me.
It bites like a horror novel at times and I was happy to let the bloody juices run down my chin.Alice is not for the squeamish.
With "Alice in Wonderland" Lewis Carroll has created a world that has taken root in many people's minds.
Maybe it's the vivid and highly appealing image that has been painted of Wonderland, or maybe it's the feeling that more could be discovered in the white rabbits's burrow, but despite my disillusionment something about the story keeps fascinating me.
Recently it also felt that it's where fancy has got the longest way ahead of it, as I dream of taking a left where Alice has taken a right.
Where Lewis Carroll left a lot of silhouettes in his shrouds of mystery, Christina Henry drags them out into the spotlight and explains them away.
There is something about the idea of a retelling in which Alice has escaped from an asylum that so fits the wondrous aura of the original book.
I imagine it would be extremely difficult to manufacture a narrative from the nearly unrelated curiosities of the original Alice in Wonderland—Tim Burton certainly struggled—but it seemed like the only thing this attempt did was take some names.It seems that this is not the only shared factor between Tim Burton’s adaptation and Christina Henry’s.
In general it was so frustrating to try to compare this book to the original, because it didn’t add up.
WARNING:  Rape & sexual violence. I'm too pissed to let this subject slide off in my review.I feel like head-banging the walls at how ‘oh-so-dark-and-morbid’ this book is. I can't even bring myself to say ‘This is so dark oMG!1!’ without feeling the need to roll my eyes off my sockets. Gross exaggeration there but I just can't take this book seriously when everything about it is so fucking flat and one-note with no complexity nor weight to it, and my god does this book tries too hard, too o
I'm too pissed to let this subject slide off in my review.I feel like head-banging the walls at how ‘oh-so-dark-and-morbid’ this book is.
Gross exaggeration there but I just can't take this book seriously when everything about it is so fucking flat and one-note with no complexity nor weight to it, and my god does this book tries too hard, too over-the-top to paint the picture of a brutal world.
A LOT of it.The way this book tosses out the brutality of rape like it's nothing more but a tool to make the story have that dark, adult and edgy spice to it felt so fucking cheap.
If a character with a vagina enters the picture then it's rape alllllll the fucking way.
Years ago Alice went from her home in New City with a supposed friend into Old City out of stupidity if you ask me....only Alice came out...
Alice is put in a mental hospital in the Old City by her parents for the rest of her life.
Alice has one friend in the asylum and his name is Hatcher.
I really liked all of the things Alice and Hatcher go through together.
I love all of the things they do all in the name of vengeance.
A brilliant, bloody-ride through Old City with a little spark of goodness at the end.
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestImagine if Tim Burton and Quentin Tarantino sat down at a table to do a book collaboration."Let's make a book with tons of over the top violence," Tarantino might say. "Sexual, physical, cannibalism - you name it!""Okay," Tim Burton might say. "But only if we get to ruin somebody's childhood classic with an existential nightmare set in a surrealistic landscape of angst and desolation.""And let's have a female character go on a killing spree
"But only if we get to ruin somebody's childhood classic with an existential nightmare set in a surrealistic landscape of angst and desolation.""And let's have a female character go on a killing spree as she embarks upon a quest for revenge," Tarantino would add."Deal," Burton would finish, "just don't forget the purple spirals!"That's kind of what ALICE is like.
She's a survivor of terrible acts she can't entirely remember, and imprisoned in a mental institution along with folks like Hatcher: a man ten years her senior who murdered his entire family with an axe.When the two of them escape, they land up in a place purged of all magic, where evil crime lords have carved up the land into slices of terror and poverty and corruption.
I haven’t read Lewis Carroll’s Alice in Wonderland.I have watched several movie versions of it though, and I have to say that I am not a fan of Alice in Wonderland in general. It has always come off to me as the bad side of trippy, so needless to say I was wary of this Alice in Wonderland retelling.“That was the trouble with not being right in the head. You couldn’t always tell if your eyes were telling the truth.”Our Alice is in this story is not a pre-teen, but a woman in her late twenties wh
Who knew a tea party could be so scary?Yes, I should I just put it out there as a TRIGGER WARNING, sexual violence abound in this book so if you’re squeamish, approach with caution or avoid completely.Alice’s solace is her friend Hatcher whom she talks to through a mouse-hole in between their cells, and whose memories are riddled with holes just like Alice’s.
The author put in all the familiar elements of Lewis Carroll’s Wonderland and gave them dark twists that perfectly suits every turn of this retelling.The characters were superbly written as well, Alice is nothing like the Alice we all know.
"Alice, what are you doing?""Following the white rabbit, of course." Well well well what a wonderful surprise this was. Might review it in future sometimes.
Once you mount, there is no way to get down - you shriek, scream, hold on for dear life, maybe piss in your pants - but you stay on, till the ride is finished.And what a ride!The original Alice followed a white rabbit, fell down a rabbit hole, had all those weird yet pleasant adventures, and woke up from an afternoon nap in the end.
For the Alice in this story, the rabbit hole is the Old City, the den of iniquity which borders the New City, where the nice folks live - but it is a nightmare she enters: raped and mutilated, she wakes up to madness in an asylum.
3.75 stars "Do not go seeking the Rabbit, else you wish for more death and madness." Are you ready for the darkest, most fucked up retelling of Alice in Wonderland yet?Like The Child Thief, Alice has all the elements of the original classic, but dusts off the powdered sugar and lets you see the darkness underneath. Madness isn't whimsical—it's horrifying. Years ago, Alice (the character) went down the rabbit hole and came back mad. Blood slicked her thighs as a result of rape. She resides in an
Are you ready for the darkest, most fucked up retelling of Alice in Wonderland yet?Like The Child Thief, Alice has all the elements of the original classic, but dusts off the powdered sugar and lets you see the darkness underneath.
Years ago, Alice (the character) went down the rabbit hole and came back mad.
Aside from Alice, the villains rape and torture lots of other girls.
But I do like that Alice doesn't judge the other girls.
Alice's trauma isn't magically cured nor is Hatcher's.
I sort of want Alice the book to be longer, yet also stay the way it is.
"Alice! What are you doing?""Following the white rabbit, of course." (x)Instead, we'll just have to settle for 4 stars. How  exceptionally  creepy this story was! It's been a really long time since I last read a horror novel and I hadn't realize how much I missed it until I picked up Alice. You're led by the hand, thinking you're going to encounter a fairytale and instead wake up in a nightmare. Christina Henry got  really  creative with this retelling. I had always been a fan of the original,
You're led by the hand, thinking you're going to encounter a fairytale and instead wake up in a nightmare.
I had always been a fan of the original, have reading the book and watched the movies, and there was something about this "fairytale" that always fascinated me.
This twisted retelling had me thinking back to the Grimm tales and other storytellers who's story had been edited in order to fit the fairytale mold.
Alice begins in a mental institution, years after Alice encountered the Rabbit.
Why I am a big fan of retellings (done right) is because of the author's ability to weave a unique story while keeping the essence of the original story.
I enjoyed this; I’m interested to see how Hatcher and Alice’s relationship plays out in the second book.The horror was not as much as you would think for this book but it definitely had gothic elements.But it was the most imaginative Alice in wonderland retelling I have ever read.
Alice and Hatcher meet in an Asylum, with the Jabberwocky trapped with them.
Each classic character comes into play in different ways - it’s a very interesting and modern take and one I really enjoyed.It was a creepy theme throughout and it was definitely mind bending, the Hatcher was amazing - and Alice did grow up at the end.
4.4 stars. How could you not love a broken heroine who, on the brink of desperation with the horrors of her past and present, goes "nah - crying won't help" - and then gets on with tormenting and killing bad guys instead? [Prtf]

It is quite a remarkable book actually and Alice in Wonderland will never look the same again.
In this rewrite Alice has been placed in an insane asylum due to her belief that she went down a rabbit hole and met a talking rabbit.
From there we descend into what is really a horror story as Alice meets again the Rabbit, the Walrus, Cheshire and others only in quite different forms from the original.
There is a lot of blood, violence and rape so it is definitely not a fairy story.I enjoyed this reinterpretation and intend to read the next book as well:)
I was having a fever while watching it and considering I was expecting a story like "The Beauty and the Beast", realizing that I was supposed to watch a stupid little girl dreaming about weird stuff, filled me with disappointment.
It happens when it’s supposed to.In this dark retelling of Wonderland, Alice tries to run away from her fate to be free, she follows the white rabbit of her nightmares and the Jabberwocky of her daydreams to slay them and gain this freedom and yet, her long horrifying journey changes her in a beautiful way.
Henry’s retelling is definitely not for the faint of heart, and readers should also beware that themes of sexual violence and abuse feature heavily in this novel.
I like how she’s taken the familiar elements from the original story and reworked them into her version, making Alice one of the most unique retellings I’ve ever read.Still, as much as I enjoyed this novel, I couldn’t help but feel like it was missing something vital.
This is my first Alice in Wonderland retelling. Right now, I don't think I'll ever find a better one. I liked everything about Christina Henry's Alice.After reading a few goodreads reviews about this book, I felt nervous about the  trigger warning  regarding rape. I braced myself and expected the worst. Maybe because of that, I found the book less troubling than I thought it would be.Once upon a time, there were two 16 year old girls who went missing in the Old City. Only one returned and she ha
I liked everything about Christina Henry's Alice.After reading a few goodreads reviews about this book, I felt nervous about the 
Maybe because of that, I found the book less troubling than I thought it would be.Once upon a time, there were two 16 year old girls who went missing in the Old City.
So her parents did what they thought was best for her and sent her to the looney bin, where she stayed for 10 years.While at the asylum, Alice befriends Hatcher (a man who had also lost the memory of his previous life) who dreamt of blood.
It sounded like a promise to Alice, and a warning about the other Rabbit."
[His] blood spurted into her face as he fell to his knees, clutching at his neck, his mouth moving helplessly...She ought to be worried, she supposed, that it was so easy to do.Over the bend, entirely bonkersYou like me best when I'm off my rockerThe relationship between Alice and Hatcher was WONDERFUL!
The best people areIn a story filled with insanity, magic, monsters, and all kinds of dark and weird things, Alice manages to have characters that shine through.
I'll think of this Alice, bloody knife in hand, Hatcher by her side.
Her parents have her admitted to an insane asylum, where, when our story opens, Alice has been for a decade.Perhaps needless to say, Alice is broken.
It's just a solid book.But let's not get too far down that road of character study.
I mean, this is still a story involving a giant rabbit and food designed to shrink people.Life is not much like stories, Alice thought.
Still, her life had a giant talking rabbit in it, and she didn't think that was very common.One thing I will say is that the ending felt weak.
“If you go chasing your freedom your fate will only follow you there and force you back.”Alice doesn't remember how she got here or what sent her here, all she knows is that she's a patient in an insane asylum and the voice of the person next to her room.Even when he tells her crazy things, she doesn't have any choice but to listen to him. He's the only person that talks to her and she isn't even sure that he's a person.That is until the asylum is up in flames and with the help from him she fle
He also knows where to go and what to do even if he doesn't has any recollection of how he knows.In the journey they're taking to kill the Jabberwock, Alice starts remembering thing too.
The city is divided into factions owned by feuding crime bosses: Mr. Carpenter (with his armed thugs), the Caterpillar (sadistic strip club owner), the Walrus (who eats women as he rapes them-- oh, yes, it's that type of book), Cheshire (who trades in secrets), and the White Rabbit (who Alice fears most of all).
It's especially bad for Alice, because women in the Old City are no more than play things for the sadistic and perverted.This book is dark and violent, and there's lots of sexual violence toward women.
My goodness, I never realized before how easy it would be to twist the original Alice in Wonderland story the tiniest bit and turn it into a tale of horror.Alice was deliciously dark and creepy.
Literally.Alice ventured into Old City with her friend Dor, the place where the scum and penniless thrive, and she barely escaped with her life.
Alice is deemed crazy and placed in an insane asylum for the next ten years.
I personally thought the violence suited this dark retelling; it showed the horror of Old City, where dictating empires ruled, rapists ran rampant, and no one was safe.
