https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29565.The_Stone_Raft
And ready for travel too.Saramago’s novel chronicles how the Iberian Peninsula, by detaching itself from the European continent along the middle of the Pyrenees departed on a journey, and narrates the wandering of a few Iberian individuals--both Portuguese and Spanish, around the floating Peninsula, no longer a geographic entity, but a huge stone floating and mobile raft.These individuals have been united in their shared perplexity at the extraordinary phenomenon, and by their suspicion that they are jointly but independently responsible, and in a most esoteric chain of eccentric causality, for the detachment of their countries from Europe.
Brexit ForefeltSpain and Portugal float away from Europe as a disunited kingdom, leaving Gibraltar behind, a lonely Atlantic island.
Written in 1986 about the Iberian leave-taking from continental Europe, The Stone Raft is the perfect book for Brexit 2016.
"A loving mother, Europe was saddened by the misfortune of her lands on the extreme west." All sorts of connections - journalistic as well as legal and physical (particularly electricity) - have to be worked out, as any country with experience would know.
Not that it has the same epistemological pretensions as the Cogito, of course, but " ...in the absence of any certainties one has to pretend." Indeed, pretending to leave the EU may be Britain's salvation as well.

The first section brings together a group of people all of whom have been touched by apparently miraculous events at the same time as the gap appeared.
This personal story, which has elements of the picaresque, is set against a wider imagining of the political, geographical and social consequences of such an upheaval.
The oddly assorted group of three men, two women (three Portuguese and two Spanish) and a dog travel round the new island on a desultory quest, initially by car and later in a horse drawn wagon (both Deux Chevaux).

A jangada de pedra = The stone raft, José Saramago The Stone Raft (Portuguese: A Jangada de Pedra) is a novel by Nobel Prize in Literature-winning Portuguese writer José Saramago. It was written in 1986. The premise of the novel is that the Iberian Peninsula has broken off the European continent and is floating freely in the Atlantic Ocean; bureaucrats around the world are forced to deal with the traumatic effects, while five characters from across Portugal and Spain are drawn ever closer to one
.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: بیست و پنجم ماه اکتبر سال 2003 میلادیعنوان: بلم سنگی؛ نویسنده: ژوزه (خوزه) ساراماگو؛ مترجم: مهدی غبرائی؛ تهران، هاشمی، 1380؛ در 371 ص؛ شابک: 9647199031؛ چاپ دوم 1381؛ چاپ سوم 1386؛ شابک: 9789647199032؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان پرتقالی - قرن 20 معنوان: بلم سنگی؛ نویسنده: ژوزه (خوزه) ساراماگو؛ مترجم: کیومرث پارسای؛ تهران، علم، 1386؛ در 434 ص؛ شابک: 9789644057687؛ هر آینده‌ ای افسانه‌ ای ست؛ این جمله را نویسنده به روایت از آلخو کارپنتیه (رمان‌نویس کوبایی) پیش از شروع داستان آورده؛ و پس از آن نیز افسانه‌ ای را می‌آورد: شکافی در کوه‌ های پیرنه در مرز اسپانیا و فرانسه رخ می‌دهد، و شبه‌ جزیره ایبری که شامل اسپانیا و پرتغال است، از اروپا جدا می‌شود.
3.5 stars Two moths ago (on vacation) I bought "the stone raft" (a jangada de pedra) by José Saramago [nobel prize in literature (1998)] in one of the most beautiful bookstores in the world, "Livraria Lello" in Porto, Portugal (my country). This somptuous bookshop inspired the Harry Potter’s library in Hogwarts. In fact, J.K Rowling lived in Porto teaching English in the early 1990s. If you ever come to Portugal you should visit it ....... just saying... ♥#PortugueseAuthor"Dificílimo acto é o de


Explora, igualmente e ilimitadamente, as possibilidades da sua imaginação, manipulando o leitor em função de uma narrativa criativa que conjuga com profundas reflexões sobre inúmeros assuntos, como a música clássica, a literatura, com destaque para inúmeros escritores e poetas, sobre a política e os políticos, sobre a educação e as crenças religiosas, sobre a fé e os sacrifícios associados, enquadrando a culpa e a redenção, mas também sobre o mundo capitalista e as injustiças sociais e sobre muitas outras matérias.”A Jangada de Pedra” (1986) é uma obra ficcional, uma alegoria, uma distopia – comum a alguns anteriores romances - em que José Saramago discorre sobre uma temática eternamente actual – de que o recente Brexit é revelador – na época aludindo à unificação da Europa, com a integração dos dois países ibéricos, Portugal e Espanha, que após várias ocorrências bizarras a que se associa um acontecimento incompreensível e sem explicação científica, se separam da Europa, vagueando ao sabor da correntes oceânicas em direcção aos Açores.
The magical tale of The Stone Raft is developed within a complex plot, where outcrop different ways of living and loving, to problematize the concepts of sexuality and questions the psychology of feelings.
The barely contained surprise that the narrator recounts successes that undermine values and beliefs firmly held, the irony of dialogic defense, the discreet access to deciphering the narrative codes capable of ambiguity, create the text in fruition conditions, giving the pleasure of reading.
Therefore, The Stone Raft is an immensely entertaining novel, a real amusement, how did give us the century of Voltaire.
And to pursue the object of desire, takes us to the realm of freedom and the dream, the utopia of the text itself.
The Stone Raft is as multi-layered as the strata exposed when the Iberian Peninsula separates from the continent of Europe and begins an erratic journey through the Atlantic Ocean.
There is the nature of pilgrimage, revealed in the peregrinations of these characters and in the relationships that develop among them in the course of their journeying.
But most of all, what Saramago has written is a description of life, that pilgrimage toward death we all must make, which derives its meaning not from its destination but from those we learn to love along the way.
الطوف الحجري كتب جوزيه ساراماغو هذه الرواية قبل روايته الأشهر (العمى) بتسع سنوات، ولكن لأن أغلبية القراء قرءوا العمى أولاً وكانت مدخلاً لهم للتعرف على هذا البرتغالي النوبلي، فلذا تأتي المقارنة دائماً معاكسة، وتبدو هذه الرواية وكأنها استعادة لموضوعة (ثيمة) العمى.
والسياسيون لا هم لهم إلا البحث عن من يلقون عليه بمسئولية الكارثة، والمجتمع ليس إلا قطعان خائفة، تبدو ثقة واهتمام وتركيز ساراماغو دائماً على الجماعة الصغيرة، وهي ليست جماعة قرابية، أو أيديولوجية، وإنما هي جماعة تكونها الصدفة، وتلحم بينها الرحلة التي تخوضها الجماعة خلال الرواية، ففي كلا الروايتين ترتحل الجماعة، ولكن وجود هذه الجماعة ورحلتها ليس رومانسياً حالماً، فساراماغو متشائم كما قلنا، فلذا تختلف الجماعة، وتمزقها مشاعر الخيانة والخجل، ولكن الغريب أنها لا تتفكك، ويتدبر ساراماغو بقائها ومقاومتها ونجاتها، ربما لم يكن البرتغالي بعد كل هذا بكل ذلكم التشاؤم.
Nella zona del Cerbere, al confine franco-spagnolo, dove i cani che non hanno corde vocali, cominciano ad abbaiare, ci si prepara alla catastrofe, ormai imminente.
Qui la terra comincia a tremare e diventa una "zattera di pietra", errando nell'Oceano e lasciando che ognuno vada incontro al suo destino.
Nella zattera di pietra si condensano le tematiche dell'uomo e dell'umanità, quali lo spaesamento, la desolazione, la solitudine, l'irrazionalità.
Ognuno cerca di trovare una alternativa al proprio destino, quando ormai tutto viene a mancare.
This is a great read - a magic-realism thriller, if you will - about the Iberian peninsular breaking away from mainland Europe. Im not the biggest MR fan in the world and faced with the prospect of pages and pages of dense prose, I wasnt looking forward to this one much, but Saramagos prose really does sing. The sentences are long but the story moves forwards, its not wilfuly obtuse or pretentious and is actually quite exciting. The book is warm, wise and interesting.
This is a great read - a magic-realism thriller, if you will - about the Iberian peninsular breaking away from mainland Europe. I´m not the biggest MR fan in the world and faced with the prospect of pages and pages of dense prose, I wasn´t looking forward to this one much, but Saramago´s prose really does sing. The sentences are long but the story moves forwards, it´s not wilfuly obtuse or pretentious and is actually quite exciting. The book is warm, wise and interesting.
الحب ولَّع في الدرة :Dhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KLJA-...
http://amulherqueamalivros.blogs.sapo...
لطالما سمعتُ عن نوعية قصص ساراماجو المختلفة عن كل ما هو مألوف ومعروف.كانت لدي فكرة عامة عن أسلوب ساراماجو القصصي، وكانت (الطوف الحجري) أول قصة أقرأها له.
هي قصة جمع فيها الكاتب كل شئ: السياسة، الجغرافيا، الفلسفة، الإنسانيات، وشئ من حب.طريقة ساراماجو مثيرة للضحك!
:))الطوف الحجري فانتازيا معتادة من فانتازيات ساراماجو، تخيّل فيها انفصال شبه الجزيرة الأيبيرية (أسبانيا والبرتغال) عن أوروبا جغرافيًا، متسائلًا ماذا يمكن أن يحدث إذا وقع هذا الإنفصال على مستوى الدولتين من ناحية، وعلى مستوى قوى العالم العظمى من ناحية أخرى.
:))وحتى لا أفسد متعتها على من ينوي قراءتها فلن أتحدث عن الشخصيات، ولا فلسفتهم، ولا كيف اجتمعوا.
ونهايتها كانت عجب العجاب!
I admit, I love Saramago's work, but I would only recommend The Stone Raft to his most ardent fans; If you are intrigued by the idea of the Iberian peninsula breaking off of Europe and the possible ramifications thereof, you have missed the point and will be thoroughly disappointed.
The Stone Raft is beautifully written (of course), but Saramago meanders, philosophizes, uses allegory and parables, all towards what seemed to be an existentialist tale of five wanderers of the Iberian peninsula (plus one possibly angelic dog who does not bark, for that would be unseemly of an angelic creature).
In my estimation, the Iberian peninsula is simply a microcosm for the 'Stone Raft' we all inhabit: This Island Earth (to borrow from a song title).
لكن ما يُرتجي لا يستمر دائماً "/لم اتوقع أن اصنفها ( كتب لم تكتمل ) !!للأسف كنت خارج الكتاب ..
إلا أن الملل قد زحف إليّ من الفصل الثاني ..واستعمرني تماما في الثالث !!امنحه هذه النجمة علي الفكرة والتفاصيل المرهقة في الكتابة ..
والتي - للأسف - لم تصلني ولم اشعر بها ..
لكني اعترف بما فيها من مجهود ،هي اللقاء الثاني لي مع ساراماجو بعد انقاطاعات الموت ..ولا أدري ..
ربما أنا من لم استطع إكمال الرواية ..ربما ارتفع سقف توقعاتي معه أن اتوقع أن كل رواية له ستكون مثل انقطاعات الموت ..
!!اللقاء القادم معك ( العمي )وسأجعل سقف توقعاتي معقولا ..
هسيب الرواية كلها و أمسك في حتة صغيرةاشمعنى خلى نقطة الإنفصال عند قرية سيربيرليه مخلاهاش عند أندورا كانت هتبقى الرواية أجملع الأقل كانت أندورا هتبقى نصين :D لكن لا شك ان ساراماجو غير تقليديhttps://soundcloud.com/porchlit/sunda...

المثل بيقول الرواية اللي تقرا منها 100 صفحة، وما تشدك .. ويبقى كاتبها ساراماجو .. اللي إنتا أصلاً زهقت منه، وبتكابر .. يبقى ما تقراهاش  خالص،  ولا تقرا له تاني .بس الواحد برضو بيشعر ببعضٍ من الحقد والحسد لهؤلاء القراء الذين رؤوا فيها مالم أره!!
رغم ان العمل لا يرتقي الى انقطاعات الموت والعمى وكل الأسماء، والترجمة مثالية وصقيلة جداً ولا غبار فيها.لم افهم بعض الاحداث التاريخية والايحاءات الصعبة، وكان من المستحن ان يذكر في الهامش شيئاً عما يتحدث عنه الكاتب.
ولكني بصورة عامة اشك في ان جوزيه ساراماغو كان يفكر في ما يكتب، كتاباته عفوية جداً، وما ان يشرع في الكتابة حتى تأخذه الاحداث والكلمات بعيداً عن المتوقع والمألوف ولا تتجه الى أي شيء يمكن توقعه بالحسبان.الكتاب غني جداً ورائع، ككل اعمال هذا الكاتب الاسطوري.
"“nós aqui vamos andando sobre a península, a península navega sobre o mar, o mar roda com a terra a que pertence, e a terra vai rodando sobre si mesma, e, enquanto roda sobre si mesma, roda também à volta do sol, e o sol também gira sobre si mesmo, e tudo isto junto vai na direcção da tal constelação, então o que eu pergunto, se não somos o extremo menor desta cadeia de movimentos dentro de movimentos, o que.eu gostaria de saber é o que é que se move dentro de nós e para onde vai, não, não me
Aproveitei um regresso tardio a Portugal para ler esta obra, e gostei bastante dela, se bem que sou subjectivo quando se tratam de belíssimas descrições de viagens pelo Alentejo (e terras do sul da península), região que tem um efeito intrínseco de nostalgia árida e serena.A narrativa, pouco linear, de um grupo de gente ibérica unido por acontecimentos insólitos que irradiam do cisma da Península Ibérica da Europa, que vagueia pela ilha errante sem destino e sem futuro, é um epítome do já famoso 'destino' de Saramago, o fio de Ariadne que une os personagens independentemente da sua vontade.
Using as pillar the opposite of Portugal's accession to EU, Saramago managed to create an ironic political allegory, spiced up with mythological elements and his now familiar fine humor. In other words, another masterpiece :)
Such an interesting concept for a book, yet it was SO BORING! I loved the first 20 pages, and then, POOF, it was gone. I was all like, "Dude, where did you go? I thought we were cool!" And the book was all like, "Sorry dude, I gotta be me."
«Os homens e as mulheres, estes, seguirão o seu caminho, que futuro, que tempo, que destino. A vara de negrilho está verde, talvez floresça no ano que vem.»

Seria tudo mais fácil de entender se confessássemos, simplesmente, o nosso infinito medo, esse que nos leva a povoar o mundo de imagens à semelhança do que somos ou julgamos ser, salvo se tão obsessivo esforço é, pelo contrário, uma invenção da coragem, ou a mera teimosia de quem se recusa a não estar onde o vazio estiver, a não dar sentido ao que sentido não terá.
I was thoroughly wowed by the author's writing, and considering this isn't even his most highly recommended work makes me really look forward to read some of the other excellent books by him.I started reading this book knowing almost nothing about the premise it is based on, just knowing that the author is someone who has to be read.
The writing is exquisite and delightful, and I love the way the author speaks to the reader; his voice interacts with you directly, breaking the fourth wall as it were, as his witticisms and quips, coupled with a wonderful meta commentary on the writing, keeps you thoroughly involved in the journey that we are collectively on.
