https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1179259.Boston
Wie die beiden italienischen Einwanderer Nicola Sacco und Bartolomeo Vanzetti, die dem „Vom Tellerwäscher zum Millionär Mythos“ folgen und 1908 nach Amerika kommen, um ihr Glück zu machen, doch bald darauf feststellen müssen, dass Wunsch und Wirklichkeit mit der Realität nichts zu tun haben.
Heute so aktuell wie damals, denn würde er 2017 einen Blick auf die Welt werfen, fände er wahrlich genügend Stoff für Dutzende neue Romane.Eine Bemerkung zum Schluss: Anlässlich des fünfzigsten Jahrestages der Hinrichtung rehabilitierte Michael Dukakis, Demokrat und Gouverneur von Massachusetts, Sacco und Vanzetti und gab eine Ehrenerklärung für die beiden ab – was ihnen nur leider nichts mehr genutzt hat.Nachdrückliche Leseempfehlung!
The book I am reviewing is titled Boston.
I’m afraid that this addition to the title makes the book sound less appealing.Boston is an historical novel set in the time period 1917- 1927.
It is a story of individuals, families, a city and, ultimately the nation and a world, struggling with the issues of the day- war, immigration, the suffragist movement, socialism, communism, class division, capital punishment, poverty, corruption and greed.
The two main characters are Cornelia, a grandmother and her friend Bart.
Upton Sinclair does a great job with all the characters and made me feel a part of the family, the city and the issues of the day.
Now it was Italian, Slav and Jewish immigrants who occupied the bottom of the ladder, and some of them were even dirty Reds!Cornelia Thornwell, elderly widow of a one-time governor of Massachusetts, whose sons-in-law are all millionaire bankers, industrialists and lawyers, flees her family and ends up working in a factory with Bartolomeo Vanzetti.
They become fast friends and although Cornelia is somewhat fictional this long, detailed novel is essentially an accurate history of the Sacco-Vanzetti case, written after Sinclair did extensive research while the events were still very fresh (even ongoing).
In his book Paul Avrich essentially calls this the best Sacco-Vanzetti history around.
I really enjoyed reading this book. We used timbers in our new house from the Plymouth Cordage Company which is prominently featured in the first part of this book, which is why I read the book in the first place. There are so many issues in Boston which are still issues today, just in different aspects of society. The 99% vs the 1%, race and social class issues although in the book it is Italian vs. blue blood Puritan Boston, judicial fairness, the influence of the rich on politics, etc. I highly recommend it.
Book club with Jessica. I was called in for jury duty at the Dedham courthouse where the trial took place, so many of those scenes felt especially vivid. From Howard Zinn's introduction: "It is not the kind of history that can be handled comfortably, in harmless ceremonies, like the Bicentennial celebrations of 1976, in which the revolutionary doctrines of the Declaration of Independence were lost in a Disneyland of pageantry. Sacco and Vanzetti were not Washington and Jefferson, not wealthy insurgents making a half-revolution to exchange a limited monarchy for a limited democracy."
Boston is about the blue blooded wife of the former Governor of Massachusetts Cornelia Thornwell and how she gets involved in the case of Sacco v.
Boston is full of juxtapositions, for example, the feelings of Cornelia, who is the widow of Governor Thornwell, juxtaposed to Governor Alvin T.
The novel shows the xenophobia of the time, and the aggression against anything perceived as a threat to the ruling class, property owners, or capitalism- for example the Reds (Communists/Bolsheviks.) Boston is over 700 pages and it was written in one year- published in 1928-a year after Sacco and Vanzetti were executed in Boston.
A meld of fact and fiction...
The book captures the social and cultural atmosphere of the time, as well as the inequality between the upper and lower classes, misinformation, prejudice and paranoia.
The same themes can be applied to the way countless others have been treated in the US and will probably continue to be treated as we weave through time...
I definitely liked the book and recommend it, but there are times where the story gets a little long-winded or jumps around and there are so many witnesses and characters one finds it hard to remember all of them.
I was new to the country when I read it, in Boston, and it was quite something to read an intimate history of the society and the lapses from justice that happened not due to legal and justice systems overlooking a crucial part, but because the ones that got a poor deal were poor immigrants early last century.
Almost impossible to believe that this book isn't more talked about as once again (still) wealth is in the hands of the 10 percent who also control industry,law and government as was the case in the time of Sacco and Vanzetti.Also explains quite a bit of the Irish/Italian antipathy.But not as well formed as his other novels in part,I believe, because of the rush to get this into print flag
Not an easy book to read, but informative as to the conditions of the working people and industry during the 1920's. 700+ pages of fiction based on true events which makes one doubt the words "Life, Liberty and the pursuite of Happiness" had meaning in those days.
I read this back in the sixties and got pretty fired up. My book was a paperback but not this edition. US's prose is muckraking and indignant. Were either or both guilty... innocent? I guess we'll ever know for sure. Was justice served? Probably not. Date read is a guess.
"The humbler bandits break the law and get punished and the mighty bandits write the law and get off ..."
I am beging to see Upton Sinclair as a kind of Charles Dickens of America.
I was really enjoying this book, it's just quite long and I ran out of renewals at the library and then got distracted. *sheepish* I definitely intend on finishing it one day.
