https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18545.Rosencrantz_and_Guildenstern_Are_Dead
It was not Hamlet after all who initiated the beginnings of this murder.Watson: Claudius then, it was his letter that sent two men to their dooms.Holmes: Ah, Watson, you see but you do not observe.Watson: Surely, you do not mean to insist that Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are responsible for the deaths themselves?Holmes: Try to keep up Watson, I said murder, and I meant murder.
This is no suicide case, it is a murder following an attempted regicide, most foul.Watson: Why then, Holmes, whatever the dickens could be the solution?Holmes: There is clearly nothing more elusive to you Watson than an obvious fact.
Since that time I've seen productions of a number of his plays, including Arcadia (one of all time favourite pieces of theatre), Travesties and Rock 'n' Roll.
However, until last night I'd not seen a production of this play, which kickstarted Stoppard's career as a playwright when it was staged at the Edinburgh Festival Fringe in 1966.
It focuses on two minor characters from Hamlet who wait in the wings as Shakespeare's tragedy is played out around them, confused and confounded by what is happening, uncertain of their identities, unable to rely on their memories.
The Sydney Theatre Company production of the play I saw last night was brilliant, with wonderful performances, sensational set and costumes and great direction.
First performed in 1966, Stoppard's short metatheatrical tragicomedy takes place on the margins of Shakespeare's most famous work: the story tracks the titular pair of friends as circumstances beyond their control land them in increasingly absurd scenarios, until their sudden and inexplicable deaths terminate the action of the play. Interruption and repetition characterize the dialogue, while confusion rules the scenes. The narrative's evasiveness makes for a disorienting but stimulating viewing experience, even as it impedes the play's ability to leave a lasting or forceful impact upon the audience.
We're in a different play.GUILDENSTERN: What play?[Enter DONALD TRUMP and HOPE HICKS]TRUMP: Jesus Christ, how could you say that?
HICKS: Oh, please, please Mr Trump, I promise I'll—TRUMP: You heard me![They exit.
HICKS's sobs diminish in the distance]GUILDENSTERN: What play?
It's a coin toss."GUILDENSTERN: I still don't get it.ROSENCRANTZ: I think I'm starting to understand.GUILDENSTERN: I'm not.ROSENCRANTZ: [Taking out a coin] You call.GUILDENSTERN: Tails.ROSENCRANTZ: Heads.
Shall we do it again?[GUILDENSTERN nods, ROSENCRANTZ flips the coin]GUILDENSTERN: Tails.ROSENCRANTZ: Heads.
A third time?GUILDENSTERN: Tails.[ROSENCRANTZ flips the coin and looks at it with a despairing expression]ROSENCRANTZ: Heads.GUILDENSTERN: [Pointing at the sky] What's that?
I think it's getting closer.ROSENCRANTZ: Uh-oh.CURTAIN
This play manages to be absolutely stand on its own hilarious, as well as a thoughtful meditation on many issues at the same time.
It makes its points, delivers them well, and involves every audience I have seen when attending a production of it.
The only point I would make here is that if you can have some familiarity with Hamlet, I would imagine the play becomes much more funny.
I saw it after knowing Hamlet quite well, so I haven't had the opposite experience.
However, this is what I am told, and given the context of the play, I don't doubt it.
My favorite part is the detached and indifferent discussion of death between Rosen & Guild when they think it's Hamlet forthcoming end but we the readers all know that it is their deaths they are tumbling towards unknowingly.
Their part-insightful, part-idiotic discussions on chance, fate, death, friends, and word play is amusing.
One of my favorite lines "A man talking sense to himself is no madder than a man talking nonsense not to himself" is humorous because it is spoken by a seemingly nonsensical insane Guildenstern trying to appear intelligent about a Hamlet who is "stark raving sane" trying to appear unintelligent.
Karmic retribution for false friends...Hamlet: "Thou hast killed me in thine heart...and now in my true heart let thy execution take place; to false friendship - a dungeon that neither you nor I shall be condemned to...let thy execution be my final act of friendship." (So sorry Bill!)
An absurdest play with two idiot main characters and one of the most profound quotes of all time “We cross our bridges when we come to them and burn them behind us, with nothing to show for our progress except a memory of the smell of smoke, and a presumption that once our eyes watered.”
Description: Hamlet told from the worm's-eye view of two minor characters, bewildered Rosencrantz and Guildenstern. Echoes of Waiting for Godot resound, reality and illusion mix, and where fate leads heroes to a tragic but inevitable end.A revisit via youtube: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=T4SVV...Youtube is handy but in this case I crave the DVD to play on the eight foot screen. HEADS HEADS HEADS HEADS HEADS HEADS HEADS HEADS HEADS etc. etc.
Each of us is the star of our own life.
Or you may struggle to find meaning in your own life, like Rosencrantz and Guildenstern in this play by Tom Stoppard.Last night I attended a live broadcast of the National Theatre production, starring Daniel Radcliffe and Josh McGuire.
I couldn’t help but admire how well they knew their parts.There was definitely a “Waiting for Godot” vibe to the production, as R & G wait for some kind of sign or direction as to what they are supposed to be doing.A knowledge of Shakespeare’s Hamlet isn’t necessary to appreciate this play, but I think it enhances the viewer’s appreciation.Recommended.
Probably the profoundest of all modern plays that I have read... pondering if I can manage to write a review that will do it justice.
My brain is a bad actor.I know it's a bad actor because I read this play and the performance it gave totally fell flat.
It even got bored during the middle part and totally phoned in the performance of the first half of the third act.
It totally ruined this play for me with its terrible one-note performance.
Stupid, stupid brain.Luckily for me, Tom Stoppard directed a moving pictures version of his play, starring the magnificent Gary Oldman, Tim Roth, and Richard Dreyfuss, and it's available on Netflix.
In short, I was just too stupid to see the brilliance of this play simply by reading it.
This is a classic existentialist work by playwright Tom Stoppard which focuses on an absurdist dialog between the two minor characters Rosencrantz and Guildenstern in Shakespeare's Hamlet. Thanks to my extraordinary high school AP English teacher, I was introduced to this wonderful and funny play and it gave me more insight into the incredible complexity of the original as well as opened my eyes to modern perspectives about it. A must.
This has been my favourite play since I first studied it for English Lit 'A' Level waaaaayyy back in 1993. I've returned to it again and again over the years and it still blows me away every time. This is as close to written perfection as I've ever read. I absolutely love every line.-----------------------------------------------------------I've just got back from watching this performed by Daniel Radcliffe, Joshua McGuire and David Haig. What a fantastic production! They really did it justice. The supporting cast were also excellent. What a great night!

من هم تو نمایشنامهی هملت همیشه به نقش این دو نفر فکر میکردم... همیشه اعتقاد داشتم بود و نبود این دو نفر تغییری تو روند نمایشنامه به وجود نمیاره و مرگشون هم یه واکنش شدید بوده. تو فیلم هملت به کارگردانی لارنس الیویه هم هر چند بسیار وفادارانهست این دو نفر از داستان حذف شدن... خوشحالم دیدم فقط من چنین حسی نداشتم و این نمایشنامه رو خوندم.
من هم تو نمایشنامه‌ی هملت همیشه به نقش این دو نفر فکر می‌کردم... همیشه اعتقاد داشتم بود و نبود این دو نفر تغییری تو روند نمایشنامه به وجود نمیاره و مرگشون هم یه واکنش شدید بوده. تو فیلم هملت به کارگردانی لارنس الیویه هم هر چند بسیار وفادارانه‌ست این دو نفر از داستان حذف شدن... خوشحالم دیدم فقط من چنین حسی نداشتم و این نمایشنامه رو خوندم.
The Certainty of Death26 July 2011 I liked the film of this play so much that when I was wondering through a secondhand bookshop and saw a copy on the shelf I snatched it up immediately. One of the reasons was because I wanted to actually read the play upon which the film was based (and remembering that the playwright also made the film), and it does seem to be quite faithful. However, unlike the film, the action of Hamlet, around which this play is based, has been pushed further into the backgr
There isn't much difference between the play and the film and the major theme, death, permeates right through it.
The tragedians are major characters in this play, and there is an exploration of reality verses the make believe, and the concept of death permeates this as well.
Rosencrantz and Guildenstern sneak away from them while they are performing a play and when they meet up again at Elsinore, the player is deeply insulted, insinuating that without an audience they are simply a bunch of idiots making fools of themselves in the woods.
After many a viewing of Tom Stoppard’s film adaption of his play “Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are Dead” (many… many… viewings… I mean, c’mon… Tim Roth and Gary Oldman circa 1990?
I’m not complaining… no way no how.
This play is awesome.
Ros and Guil, Guil and Ros… they are two parts of one big bumbling(?), bewitching oaf.
ROS: What are you playing at?GUIL: Words, words.
I’m more likely to crush on a well written character than a well defined underwear model.
Booknerd indeedy.ROS: Fire!GUIL: Where?ROS: It's all right – I'm demonstrating the misuse of free speech.
To prove that it exists.You have to love Ros/Guil---or Ruil or Gos… or whatever—you just HAVE to, get it?
What is life? What even is this play? Why am I trash for this???? I will say it time and time again but plays really are my thang. I know a lot of people struggle with them but they are among my favorite literary pieces: The Importance of Being Earnest, Waiting for Godot, A Raisin in the Sun, The Merry Wives of Windsor and now: Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead.  Life is a gamble, at terrible odds. If it were a bet you wouldn’t take it. Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are characters in William
Ambassadors returning later report that "Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are dead.”And that’s where Tom Stoppard comes into play.
(No pun intended.) Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead is an absurdist, existential tragicomedy by Tom Stoppard, first staged at the Edinburgh Festival Fringe in 1966.The action of Stoppard's play takes place mainly "in the wings" of Shakespeare’s, with brief appearances of major characters from Hamlet who enact fragments of the original's scenes.
Since Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are characters from Hamlet itself, Stoppard's entire play can be considered a piece of metatheatre.Personally, I loved every bit of this play.
Which is a kind of integrity, if you look on every exit being an entrance somewhere else."Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead can be seen as Stoppard's answer to the question what are the minor characters of the play Hamlet doing while the tragic prince is agonizing and plotting?
Performed on a bare stage, which R and G never leave, the play is not a story of people but of characters; Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are defined entirely by their roles in the play.
background characters.you don't think about them much.(unless you're a harry potter fan i guess)but they're seething.writhing.riveting.they have their own stories.they have their own explorations, philosophies, existential breaks.all this goes unnoticed.but worse! but more importantly! ----because who cares about the thoughts of a background character, come on come the fuck on come ON ----they have their own perspective on the real storyand it is not what you expect.and you have no idea.no idea.this has been in me for 8 years.a reread:books that scream your name precisely.
Rosencrantz & Guildenstern are dead......then why write a 93 page play about them? I get it, it was the 60's people were high and found most things intellectually amusing, witty and necessarily redundant in an avante-garde sort of way. But seriously why? I found the play dragged and it didnt make me laugh.My advice only read this book if you are a hipster as it is much easier to roll a copy of this up and cram into the back pocket of your skinny jeans than a copy of A Confederacy of Dunces.
It's anger at circumstance, anger at destiny, and the desire for will outside of predetermination,Hamlet himself makes occasional appearances that intersect with moments in the original play - but he's been reduced here to a bit character.
He's become to this play what Rosencrant and Guildenstern were to him in "Hamlet." Making us aware that each character has their own lens to which they view the story, which could make the hero either villainous, absurd, invisible, or meaningless.Overall an excellent play, and one I'd like to see live.
And I feel like saying a few words on it won't result in a lynch mob.When we are taught to look at a known scene with fresh eyes / from a fresh perspective in Creative Writing classes, it's commonplace to immediately leap to inanimate objects and personify abstract concepts.
But maybe, just maybe, Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead is the end result one actually seeks in those exercises - a novel approach to a known plot, and one which brings quite a bit of new to the old.
All'inizio dell'opera Rosencrantz e Guilderstein si ritrovano in viaggio verso la corte di Danimarca, impegnati in una partita di "testa o croce" che sembra non avere inizio nè fine.
Perchè sono in viaggio?
Chi li ha convocati e perchè non hanno ricordo di chi erano prima dell'incontro con il messaggero del re che ha dato via a tutto?
Questo tipo di interrogativi innesca una serie di conversazioni tra i due che si risolvono ben presto in esilaranti corto circuiti, giochi di parole che si mordono la coda nell'insensatezza dell'essere.
This is a genius play of the behind the scenes of Shakespeare's play Hamlet. The plot follows two minor characters, Rosencrantz and Guildensertn, as they engage with the main characters of the play. From the first page to the last, Stoppard offers us new perspective to one of the most read plays in the world. What I enjoyed the most is the sophisticated dialogue and the subtle humour that permeates throughout the play. While Stoppard remains true to the original, he adds a new dimension to otherwise two forgettable characters.
This is the clever tragicomic meta-play of two minor characters from Shakespeare's Hamlet.
While the dialogue and physical antics of Rosencrantz, Guildenstern, and the Tragediens are comical and laden with puns, the play serves as a philosophical musing on life, the futility of it, and the cruel haphazard nature of creation (and death).
The play always leaves me thinking that maybe we're all just minor characters summoned from nothing to pass the time idly waxing philosophic and idiotic while we wait to fulfill our minor role after which we make our sad, pathetic exit without applause or encore.
Excellent. I cannot believe I gave up watching the film a while ago (especially since it featured one of my two favourite Tims in the world). I suspect watching a live performance would indeed be a 5 star experience.I loved Stoppard's wit so much, I could quote him endlessly. And of course, discuss existentialism over a bottle of dry red.
Witty, Hilarious, Insightful & Intriguing! A Brilliant Play! I Loved It!
Also, the Player [leader of the travelling theatrical troupe of tragedians] is very important in moving the action [such as it is] along.
Surreal humor, absurdism, silliness, a touch of sadness, and fantastic wordplay make this play--interspersed with relevant scenes from Hamlet--a modern classic.
It was most witty and I loved the rapid-fire patter, especially when Ros and Guil "play at questions", along with each keeping score [like a tennis match--e.g., "two---love"; "foul"] on the other.
I read this play with text in hand watching the movie, written and also directed by Tom Stoppard.
Seeing a theatrical performance would not go amiss.
