https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/327847.The_Joy_of_Cooking
She was lying on the couch in the living room and asked me to boil her a potato.
I, being 19, had NO idea how to boil a potato!
But I did not want to bother her about it - so I went into the kitchen and started up the pot of water.Not only did I ruin that cute little potato ...
She came into the kitchen and saw the whole potato (not peeled or cut) hanging out in the pot and lost it.
How can I leave you if you can't even boil a potato?!
Basically, the 1997 edition took the heart of the Joy of Cooking, that is, that it is a book that contains all the recipes your average american cook needs, and updated it for the 1997 american palate (added in asian and mexican foods, , removed casseroles made with mushroom soup, etc).
The first person narrative of the other editions was mostly removed.
The 75th anniversary editions does no further innovation, and instead adds in some of the older recipes and sections (with limited practical use, in my opion), and adds a good bit of personal narrative back in.
It is fairly encyclopedic, covering about as broad a range of cooking topics as it can; while most of the recipes are from the Western tradition, it also dips into some less traditional preparations (e.g., ceviche).
(HINT: they're basically synonymous.) It has a great index, is organized well, and has recipes to cover almost any occasion and varying degrees of culinary sophistication.What don't I like about The Joy of Cooking?
If you already have a good idea of what you want to make, there's a good chance that you'll find a great recipe; if you're looking for ideas though, the text may overwhelm you.
And while not many families routinely can or freeze food as a winter survival strategy, there are still times when I would like to know how to do it - when my CSA gives me more corn than we can manage, or when local strawberries are beautiful, fresh, plentiful, and cheap.
The lack of ice cream recipes is frustrating, especially given that so many manufacturers are making good quality electric powered ice cream makers.On the other hand, there are lots of new recipes that reflect the increasing influx of immigrant culture (and food!) into America.I'd say, Definitely buy this book, but don't chuck your old editions of Joy just yet.
For Christmas, I decided I was going to have Japanese strawberry shortcake (as in a sponge cake filled with strawberries and cream).
I needed a basic sponge cake recipe and couldn't find one anywhere, not even in my usual high-altitude baking bible, Pie in the Sky, nor in the other book I had, The Best Recipe.
Almost at the end of my rope, it suddenly occurred to me to try this book.And I found it: High-altitude Sponge Cake, on page 750!I now have a beautiful Japanese strawberry shortcake in the fridge chilling until dinner.
No pictures, but everything in this cookbook is delicious.
I don't know why it took so long for me to include this very worthy book to my Goodreads Library.
The first, a paperback, became so tattered and worn that my son presented this valued edition as a gift.
I have been cooking for more than forty years, but continue to return to this book for ideas, information and special recipes.
One can learn about different grains, exotic fruits and vegetables and the preparation and significance of many ethnic foods.
Historical and geograpical factors are also included.I would recommend this above all other cookbooks for both novice and experienced food preparers!
A perfect engagement gift!

Want to know which wine glass to use...where to place the forks...or how to do practically anything in the kitchen...it's in there!
I have a very soft spot for this book and anytime I find one at a yard sale, thrift store, book fair...I buy it!The 75th edition has too much baking soda in the pancakes so use previous editions for that recipe.
A friend of mine read the tuna salad recipe wrong - instead of using mayo OR olive oil, he read mayo AND olive oil - and it is super delicious the wrong way too.
Goodness gracious, this book could be called "The Kitchen Bible". It has contains information on anything and everything you could ever want to know about preparing food. I don't understand how anyone can possibly know this much (I think writing this book would be more difficult than writing a dictionary) but I'm sure glad that they do!
Been hip to this book and have used it here and there ( I don't really cook all that much), but last night I made a mac and cheese for a large family dinner, and that shit was flame so I decided to shout them out.
I enjoyed flipping through this, and I made a pretty good dinner ALL BY MYSELF. (what an achievement right?) The Joy of Cooking just has so much depth to it, with hundreds of recipes, add ons, possible amendments, and very interesting segments on cuts of meat, best way to use grains, and well thought-out menus. it's the OG of cookbooks for a reason, and in my eyes the best cookbook of all time.
Unlike cookbooks that tell you to "cut into fillets and braise until done" or "serve with a piquant sauce," the directions take you through step-by-step, always explaining what is really meant.
This book includes detailed information on selecting, testing for/maintaining freshness, storing (including an entire chapter on freezing), preparing, and cutting the food.
The contents of this cookbook are a treasure.Now for the bad part: the physical book.
The paper is clearly manga paper, almost (but not quite) as good as the quality of the phone book paper of your yellow pages, yet not quite as thick.
This big, amazing book covers about everything one needs to know. Procedures, instructions, recipes, techniques, guides, food charts. This needs to be in every cooks library. Timeless information
I got this way back when I first got married. I wasn't a good cook then and I'm not now! This cookbook didn't help!
If you look on GoodReads under "Popular Cookbooks Books" (sic) the Joy of Cooking is right at the top.
It's reputably the go to cookbook, a "teaching" cookbook for those who don't just burn toast, they're capable of burning water.
I'm not that bad, but neither am I a gourmet---I could use some teaching.
I've long coveted this doorstopper book of 1,132 pages containing 4,500 recipes and finally broke down and ordered it when I had a Barnes and Noble coupon.
Worth the price alone just for the sections after recipes such as "Keeping and Storing Food," "Know Your Ingredients" and "Cooking Methods and Techniques."
The version I learned to cook from and came to love was given to my mother as a wedding gift to my mother.
This book has a recipe for just about anything you might want to cook, and several things that you might not.
It could be the greatest cook book ever!
The most successful (as measured by sales) was the 1975 edition, the last edition published with Rombauer's approval was in 1962 and the last edition published at all came in 2006 as a 75th anniversary edition.
This is the cook book any chef wants on the shelf.
Some for the recipes, some for the photos, some for the trial-and-error variations on different recipes...cookbooks are appealing to me for lots of reasons.
It was just simple, black and white, and LOTS of recipes.Imagine my surprise when I received The Joy of Cooking as a gift and I realized how wrong I was.
It's easy to see why The Joy of Cooking has become a part of so many kitchens for so many years.
I just wish I had discovered this book much earlier in my cooking years--it would have saved me a lot of money spent on other cookbooks.
Simply put:My cooking Bible. I could not live without it.From drinks, to appetizers, to brunch, to soups, to tasty vegetable dishes, to meat courses, to fish, to desserts...this is it!I've learned to prepare rabbits and squirrel, made spaetzle and dumplings, elegant desserts like pears soaked in wine and cream...and so many more!Not bad for a woman whose first prepared meal was overcooked linguini (20 minutes in a pot) and canned, cold clam sauce. :-05 stars /A++++++++++
My parents bought me my first copy of Joy in 1998. Somewhere along the line I broke its back so I recently purchased a new copy. I expect that tells you how much I value this cookbook. It is far from the only cookbook in our home, but it gets used more than any other. I have seen other editions and while they have their following, I prefer this one. From Chicken Fried Steak to Crispy Roast Duck to something called 'vegetables', 1997 Joy has what you need.
I develop lots of recipes, and when I need to know what's considered standard ingredients for a specific dish, I always turn to this book. It's a great reference source. If you never owned another cookbook, you could get along fine with just this one.
Although this book is FILLED with recipes, it was always one of the last I would look through for recipes.
It's been on my "currently reading" list for 3+ years, and I haven't touched even a quarter of the recipes inside.
Of what I did make (mostly eggs, cookies, and a handful of miscellaneous items), JOY OF COOKING is a solid introduction to home cooking for people who can't boil an egg to save their lives.
Some of the recipes are peak Bland White People Cooking, the sort of stuff that lives only at questionable potluck dinners and school bake sales.
Definitely worth looking through the explanations of why certain foods are cooked a certain way, for both seasoned chefs to kitchen newbies.The cookies are pretty horrific though, ngl.
This book is an absolute classic and for good reason. If I want to experiment with a new ingredient that's on sale at the grocery store, I can almost always find a recipe in my lovely handmedown copy of Joy of Cooking. I've been told that the 6th edition is the "definitive" one, but I'm quite fond of my 5th edition and don't feel the need to buy another.
I took my time reading this cook book, but I found it a pleasant read and was educational. Nice basic cookbook.
Your mouth will be watering at the sight of this scrumpush and beautiful book. The taste will remind you of a simpler time in american history. Food buffs alike will enjoy the slight but powerful tones of characterization and plot. The setting is recherché, Congenial & Honorable. The decor is far from deplorable and fallacious. You will truly love my amazing this amazing cooking book.
I’m marking this as ‘read’ because this book has been my go to for many years. Some of my favorite stand by recipes and lots of great basic and advanced cooking advice.
Scattered throughout the book are little sections about stuff, like a section about tea, different kinds of pie, and different kinds of cakes.The format of the recipes was odd, but something I could get used to.
Example: some of the pie recipes direct you to read about fruit pies and rolling pastry dough.Again, I get it’s supposed to be the ultimate guide to cooking or whatever, but found that going back and forth between two different pages distracting.
As for directing people to different things to read before making whatever recipe, it’s probably good for beginners, but for me, I found it distracting.
And this volume represents the 75th anniversary version of this classic, originally published in 1931.One thing I wanted to do is to see if some of my favorite recipes had been changed.
For example, my old copy of “Joy of Cooking” contains a recipe for fried rice that was better than three versions from three cookbooks that I had earlier tried.
I appreciate that!At the front of the book are useful items—such as nutritional information, how to entertain, how to develop menus for various occasions (such as holiday dinners, special occasions (such as a Super Bowl Party—great to see Buffalo chicken wings listed here), and so on.Some interesting points of interest for me.
As my eyesight is not what it once was, I wish that the print were larger; on the other hand, this book is now 1000 pages long.
Other cookbooks that I have run a few hundred pages and have larger print and pictures.
I am interested in a rich collection of recipes--not something that is easy to read and short on content.
Appendices at the end are also helpful.
This is in the top tier, from my experience, because of the background information, the raw number of recipes (despite small print!!), and the straightforward preparation suggestions.
All in all, in the top tier among general cookbooks.
