https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40603982-the-monster-of-florence
”This is the nature of the evil of the Monster of Florence. And this is the nature of the evil in each and every one of us. We all have a Monster within; the difference is in degree, not in kind.” The number of victims involving the Monster of Florence are staggering, those murdered and those accused.We are all potential killers. Each and every one of us is capable of killing someone, usually that would be while protecting ourselves or protecting someone we love. Then there are those who live in
The Monster of Florence killed 14 people, 7 couples, over the course of a decade...and he got away with it.
Of course, it is hard to explain to the police why a man is out in the Florentine Hills…ALONE, but then is a man ever alone when he has some spit and a firm hand?As Mario Spezi and Douglas Preston sift through the evidence and become critical of the investigations initiated by the police, detectives start to focus on them.
Florence will never be the same for Douglas Preston.
It's not that I dislike them, but unless the author has a personal connection to the case (ie:  The Stranger Beside Me,  Helter Skelter) they often just end up being a recitation of the facts without much more going for them.When I first caught wind of  Douglas Preston's debacle with an Italian serial killer, The Monster of Florence, I couldn't wait to read the resulting book.
His novels about serial killers are outstanding, and I was looking forward to reading his non-fictional account.While the first half of the book is pretty typical of true crime books as Preston catches the reader up with the history of the killings, the second half is just unbelievable.
Preston and the journalist originally covering the investigation, Mario Spezi, dig into the case of the Monster of Florence, even winding up being investigated themselves...I know I made the synopsis sound like a thriller but this is non-fiction, the account of an Italian serial killer and his murders.
It's a fascinating journey into a reign of terror that lasted decades and into the psychology of the killer, the Italian press and justice system.Preston writes the tale in an engaging way, making me forget I was reading nonfiction at times.
The Monster of Florence's crimes were brutal and the descriptions of the murders can be somewhat graphic.
And you'd be well served to never get suspected of a crime in Italy.
From the late 1960’s to the 1980’s a serial killer sporadically stalked the countryside around Florence, murdering young couples and mutilating the female victims.
The result is this book, a fascinating tale about both the serial killer and the culture around Florence at the time.Douglas Preston Mario SpeziApparently a major recreational activity among the general public in Florence (at least the male half) was spying on young couples making love in cars.
In fact the judges actually closed the investigation on the most likely suspects, forcing police to look elsewhere.A fascinating part of the book depicts the harassment of Preston and Spezi by the police and the judiciary.
You know you are a bookaholic when you find yourself in a quaint little bookshop in Venice staring at a copy of The Monster of Florence... CQ convinced me, by way of saying he would pack it in his own luggage, that I was not leaving the shop without this book. My boyfriend is better than your boyfriend :P. ♥
The city is beautiful and feels ancient and the people are amazing; they are sophisticated like Parisians, but much more welcoming.So, the Florence that appears in this book was a shock.
The Florence presented here is still a sophisticated and beautiful place that seems to have existed forever, but now it's full of shady, grasping politicians, corrupt and incompetent police and carabinieri who stumble over each other like fools, and, of course, a serial killer who murders young couples and mutilates the women's bodies.The book was written by an American reporter who lived in Florence for a few years.
He started the book with an Italian reporter who was an expert on the case.
Im leaving in the morning for Italy and dare not say a negative word about the Italian police and judicial system! Great nonfiction account of a journalism project that went haywire and nearly had its authors locked away for murder. Thomas Harris based Hannibal Lecter on the monster of Florence, but at least he didnt end up arrested. Really good read. No chianti required.
. Yes folks, when you read about how badly these seemly intelligent men fell so far down the rabbit hole into fantasy-land with the biggest crime in modern Italian history only to be held up on charges of planting evidence and false information, you really begin to doubt the Amanda Knox case in general.
In fact, the sole reason you should read it is that Hannibal Lecter was based on il Mostro di FirenzeA brief note about who The Monster of Florence was (view spoiler)[I find it hard to form an opinion about who the killer was in the book for the same reason Serial presented.
A good true crime story that shows how really terribly wrong an investigation can go when an idiot is put in charge of it. If anything, Preston was too nice in describing the Italian justice system. Recommended to true crime lovers.
The Monster of Florence is amongst the most disturbing cases I've heard of, much less read a full book detailing, but if you're like me you can't help but want insight into what would make people do such things, or at least know how a town would deal with them.
When you see their civil rights violated and police procedure abused, it is easy to figure why the writers would become biased against them, and the bias rarely becomes cloying.One sticking point, though, is that near the end of the book they write themselves like they’re guilty as sin.
By the time Preston met Spezi and became fascinated by the case, the trail seemed to have gone cold.Despite the descriptions of the Monster's depraved killings in the first half of the book, it's the second half that is truly chilling.
Mignini and a local investigator, Guittari, have their own pet theory about the monster: that the killings are the work of a secret group of satanists who have members in very high places.At first Mignini and Guittari's theory seems laughable -- the "evidence" consists of little more than the rantings of a half-wit and a two liars -- but as Preston and Spezi find out, questioning the judge brings them within his sights, and they soon find themselves under suspicion.
I listened to this book on audio.
It was a fairly interesting listen, the narrator had a nice Italian accent that contributed a lot to my enjoyment of this novel.
This book made me very glad to be a U.S. citizen.Anyway, this was an enjoyable "read"- quite different from anything I've read from Douglas Preston before.
Sadly, the real killer was probably laughing at the police as they were interrogating Mr. Preston and Mr. Spezi.
He is probably still laughing right now, if he's still alive.
Just the thought of a killer like that being free is chilling.
If you read this book, you will be chilled as well.
Wow...
I had to actually force myself to read the last half (at least) of this book.
It started really well, and the story about the Monster was really interesting.
The story on the investigation I found kinda tiresome.
It just went on and on and on and there are only so many times I can roll my eyes without bringing on a migraine: the ridiculous antics of the tinfoil hat wearing Italian Police and their legal counterparts got extremely old very fast.
Ditto the Preston & Spezi show.
The entire last half of the book was in dire need of an editor.
Book on CD narrated by Dennis Boutsikaris.3.5*** In the early 1980s the residents of Tuscany were terrorized by a serial killer every bit as brutal as Jack the Ripper.
In August 2000, Douglas Preston moved his family to Florence; he intended to write a murder mystery.
Very quickly Preston abandoned the mystery novel and began working with Spezi to uncover all they could about the Monster of Florence.
This is their story.This work has some of the elements that make true-crime books so fascinating.
Necessary because both Spezi and Preston became the targets of repeated investigations, allegations and criminal charges as a result of their efforts to write a book about the case.
We were both mesmerized by this story of the murder of 14 young lovers who meet their deaths in lover's lane like settings in the beautiful hills of Florence.
Preston brings his family to Italy to fulfill a lifetime dream and write a new fiction novel.
Joining up with Italian journalist, Mario Spezi, Preston gets caught up in the 20 year history of these serial murders that reveal a dark side to a setting that most would give their eye teeth to visit.
Preston and Spezi unfold the evidence in a narrative flow that reads like fiction but is all too true.
Não costumo dar muito 5 estrelas pelos livros e peço desculpa ser uma unhas de fome :P Mas o facto é que este livro me agradou mesmo muito. Não só pelo relato verídico e quase científico do modus operandi do Monstro de Florença mas também a forma como o governo italiano me chocou ao tentar abafar o caso. Sou fã de Douglas Preston, acho-o mais do que um mero entertainer de literatura thriller e aflige-me ter passado por um conjunto de situações que me deixaram simplesmente incrédula.Muito, muito bom este livro!
Perhaps I'll come back to it later. After a great beginning, Preston lost me. Didn't have the tension or storytelling verve of an Erik Larson book, which I was expecting.
I found this book good at the start, but slightly dry and disappointing.
At the end of a fictional novel, the killer would have been unmasked and good will have triumphed over evil.
In this version, the evil was split between some weird Florentine families and a lazy police deparment...all in their quest for notoriety and power - and I have to say I need to include the two authors in this.Egotistically speaking, they ended up making this story more about themselves than the killer - it's no wonder no one turned up any new evidence.
This book - especially the second half - is a primary source in the investigation of an unsolved serial murder case and the odd behavior of an Italian prosecutor in the decades following.
It's irreplaceable if it's a case you find interesting, and it's an account which has direct bearing on the Amanda Knox case from a few years ago.Unfortunately, it's not a very good book, partly because it doesn't know what it wants to be - a thriller about the murders?
A first-person account of an odd few years?
Boy, did I waste money on this best seller.
Other than finding out where Thomas Harris stole his story for Hannibal, and who Lector's crimes in Florence were based on, you really have to like true crime police procedurals for this to be as entertaining as advertised.
Maybe we should start a defense committee for her as I'm sure, after reading this book, she's completely innocent and that her parents are probably broke from dealing with the whacky Italian justice system
A lot of this book centered around Mario Spezi, not so much The Monster. I grew bored when the author went into detail about Italy and the people of Italy and his own personal narrative. And jeez Louise the incompetence of the Italian criminal justice system (and police) was getting on my nerves. Not enough meat in this book, and if I hear the word 'carabinieri' one more time I'M gonna kill somebody.
I don't read a lot of non-fiction and when I do it's usually either biographies or travel. This may be the first true crime book I've ever read. It was fascinating and riveting; a real page turner. Kudos to Douglas Preston and Mario Spezi for presenting it in such a highly readable manner.
,,Monstrul din Florența” nu este genul de carte pe care o citești continuu.
Multe greșeli intenționate, multă corupție și prostie, multe lucruri aruncate sub preș îndată ce presa băga capul pe ușă, birocrație folosită pentru a ascunde alianțe dubioase și aspecte evidente care, cică, nu au fost observate.
Cert pentru mine este că a fost o lectură foarte interesantă, înfiorătoare și tristă din multe puncte de vedere; o carte-document care ne arată ororile de care sunt în stare nu doar criminalii, ci și autoritățile, o carte pentru care autorii au avut de îndurat mai multe decât însuși Monstrul din Florența.
[library]Okay, so I'm going to start with something catty, for which I apologize, but it also serves as a pretty good tl;dr:This book would be greatly improved by about 80% less Douglas Preston and a concomitant 80% more Mario Spezi.I am NOT INTERESTED in Preston's story of the American naif whose romantic vision of Florence is ripped apart by his investigation of the Monster of Florence.
É uma descrição bem feita sobre um conjunto de crimes nos arredores de Florença.Até aqui tudo seria normal, não fosse o caso do outro Monstro que emerge do livro ser o da justiça italiana, e a forma como a investigação descamba em ataques pessoais, teorias rocambolescas e jogos de poder na magistratura.
Ainda outra curiosidade: Thomas Harris escreveu Hannibal com referências ao caso do Monstro de Florença (e situando boa parte da acção em Florença) e Ridley Scott não se furtou a elas no filme.
Rever Hannibal enquanto se lê este livro é obrigatório.Ta-TaC.
What a freaking ride.
This story is so fantastical it's difficult to believe this actually happened!
I was sucked in from the very first word spoken by the narrator.
Because the narrator (Dennis Boutsikaris) happens to be the narrator of Child 44 which was one of my favorite reads of 2015.
So it was like being squeezed into the best kind of hug by a favorite family member you haven't seen in a long time.
The only reason I rated it 4 instead of 5 stars was because there were a couple of times I got a little lost in the sauce.
Interesting, but confusing. I think the most difficult thing was keeping track of who everyone was. All those Italian names. The crimes were quite gruesome, though I do appreciate that they just kept to the facts instead of sensationalizing the details. My favorite part was the very ending when Spezi was accused, but that didn't last very long. Content Warning: some strong language and gruesome murder details2018 challenge: a true crime
Sweet mother of mercy, no wonder Amanda Knox had such an insanely bad time of it. This is the best true crime/it happened to me/"behold, the horrors of the [Italian] justice system" story I've read in forever. It's INSANE.
Feeling an urge to reread this in the wake of seeing the Amanda Knox trial come to a close.
I was completely glued to the story, and when the author revealed his suspect, it had just the right impact.Second half of the story: 3 starsSome crazy shit happened after Douglas Preston got involved in the whole thing.
You're no better than the police who refuse to listen to any of your theories.Based on the information provided in the book, I think Preston and Spezi's theory of who the killer(s) is/was is probably correct, but then again, I only have the information they have given me, so who knows what more there is that I don't know?
