https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/245727.Mairelon_the_Magician
I don't know where I got it, I've had it for years and never read it.
We had finished reading "These Three Remain" from the Fitzwilliam Darcy series (which is totally fun to read out loud, especially if you get your husband involved.
As fantasy plots go, we liked it better than Harry Potter.
We wanted to hurry and get our stuff done for the day so we could read the book together!
It was a great cross between fantasy and a Regency era mystery.
It took us about 4-5 days, and we were reading out loud.
This book felt so thoroughly mediocre. Which is unusual, I think. Most books have something that make them stand out more (in good or bad ways!), but this felt like just a collection of things that I like well enough, but that never became more than that.Like, Regency era with magic! Orphan girl falls in with mysterious magician! But it never really sparked for me. There was stuff that was supposed to be all farce-like, but . . . it's not even that it felt flat. It was just THERE. Mediocre.Oh well. I'll still read the next.
Regency heist capers! This book is amazing -- magic and manners all wrapped up into an amazing package filled with thieves cant and not a single person who is what they seem.I love this book! It's a perfect winter reread.
'Sure, but it's a long story!' I just about lost it.My favorite character was Kim, the POV character.
But she turned out to be little more than the POV character, her only purpose in the story to be in the right place at the right time to witness all the happenings of the book.
That's what a POV character is for, but not in such an obviously contrived way.It's too bad.
It's a little coincidence-heavy and I feel like I've read one too many girl-who-dresses-as-a-boy stories, but I try to give YA more of a pass on those kinds of things.Unfortunately, the book starts to get off track once the characters start traveling.
Based on the setup, I was really expecting Kim to spend at least a little time playing magician's assistant, but after finishing the novel that whole idea felt like an excuse to get her along and teach her some trick knots.
Not a huge deal, but it made a lot of this book feel like setup for the sequel, which I'm not sure I plan to read.
This was a fun story and yet, if you are familiar with Patricia C.
Wrede, it feels a bit like...every other Patricia C.
Wrede book you've read.
Especially Sorcery and Cecelia.
Lots of convoluted thieving cant, ridiculous characters, and an improbable climax all designed to heighten the absurdity of the situation.
I think if I read this book years ago I would have enjoyed it more.
As it is, I saw some traces of Georgette Heyer and some elements of fun but never quite fell in love with it.I do like Kim and Mairelon, though, and I immensely enjoyed the sequel.
This is worth reading for that.
And then they do some more talking.5th, the conclusion did not come off as funny ridiculous.
The guy with the pistols (loaded, as we find out when he accidentally shoots the ceiling), waves the pistols around and orders everyone to silence .
And generally get in the way of everyone else.Oh, there were just too many people in general, and it was hard leeping all their names and relationships straight, especialky because everyone had a first and last name and a title, and some had nicknames or (like Mairelon), fake names.At least the actual ending (after the loooong conversations) was actually decent, with Kim finding out she could learn magic (um, yeah, we knew that from beginning, big surprise).Kim was dressed as a boy the entire time.
Mairelon was enjoyable and his character complemented Kim's adorably.
I couldn't take it.I was also frustrated with how Kim was sidelined through a lot of the book.
A lot of her action was overhearing long conversations from characters she generally had no connection with.Despite the ending, I did enjoy most of the book, and Kim and Mairelon were definitely worth it.
I've heard that the next book is much better (and has more of a focus on Kim and Mairelon, yesssssss), and I am excited to read it!
I would pick a page and read a few lines here and there to try and catch on what was happening and it was the same for about 50 pages!"You have the platter??" "No..
No No E's not because I have snuck up on him and now I will get the platter instead!"The mystery of the magic platter was just NOT that interesting to me and I was bored.
I couldn't wait for it to be over.YA fantasy is really hit or miss for me...
and this one was a huge miss.
I have to say, I was pleasantly surprised. After the good reviews I thought I might go into it expecting a little much, but it delivered.The protagonist was sympathetic and developed well during the story. The antagonists were quite dislikable, in a likable sort of way for an antagonist. That may sound strange, but I've read way too many books where the bad guys were just bad and that was all. There was some development here, and I appreciated it.Not exactly what I was expecting, but well done and a very pleasant diversion.
It's aimed at an older audience with more complex prose, but that just meant the writing is denser and more convoluted, and I found myself missing the slimmed-down style of the Enchanted Forest Chronicles.The premise is so promising -- a Regency-era street urchin passing as a boy, taken in by a magician off to solve MYSTERIES -- but:a) That utterly abysmal ending, where literally every single character ever mentioned spontaneously shows up and they all talk about the plot for a million pages.
Almost 17 (at least as near as she can tell), Kim has spent all of her life on the streets of London, living disguised as a boy and struggling just to survive.
The man who hired her might be a gentry toff (and therefore not to be trusted), but he's offering her the small fortune of five pounds and he hasn't even asked her to steal anything.Too bad the toff didn't see fit to mention that the the street magician is a real wizard - one who easily sees through her boy's disguise.
Soon she’ll have to give up the freedom of being a boy forever and try to figure out who she really is, so that she can become Mairelon’s student and enter London Society as a real magician.
In addition, I liked the second book, Magician’s Ward, much better, but I think you need to start with the first book, Mairelon the Magician.In essence, reading these books is pretty much just like reading Sorcery and Cecelia, except with different characters and plot.
In fact, how magic is treated in the worlds, history, etc., all seems to be pretty much the same, except in Sorcery and Cecelia magicians create focuses, which is at least never mentioned in the Mairelon books.
I'll try to review this in full later, but for now:I read this as part of the A Matter of Magic set, which has this and the next book in 1 volume; since I'm not done reading A Matter of Magic, and don't know when I'll get back to it, I'll just talk about this individually for now.Basically, I love Patricia C Wrede.
I'm giving this a 4 because I'm setting aside this HUGE WEIRD PERIOD at the end that went effing crazy.
I'm pretty sure that EVERY character in the book was gathered in 1 room, and all under suspicion, at one point.
When she tries to open one chest, a ward explodes, and she thinks she should have asked for more money, since she hit on a real wizard.When she rouses again, the wizard and his servant have caught her.
Whereupon the wizard takes her on, over the servant's objection (there are hints later that he's trying to atone, but nothing much comes of that), and sends her back to report on what she found.
And he takes her out of London on a mission to the countryside, involving a search for something stolen.
"Mairelon the Magician" (1), by Patricia Wrede (already 5* for Dragon series), is a warm witty clever wizard masquerading as a caravan amateur, who plays sculptor Pygmalion to train 17ish boyish pauper Kim. To clear the toff's name, they seek a set of enspelled silver dishes and original London thieves from five years ago.
A train of wannabe light-fingers troop through dark library "better than a Drury Lane" comic farce, as is the hostage shoot-out finale where all converge, disguises fall, mystery solved.
Elegant deceptive French Renee recognizes Kim is a girl immediately.
I look forward to her chaperone role to come, her oolala influence on Kim's cant.
Unfortunately, this is a somewhat forgettable book (as a few days after reading it I can no longer recall much detail.The main character Kim dresses as a boy and does various odd jobs to earn money.
Mairelon, the other "main" character seemed a bit perfect but at least had witticisms which redeemed him a little.The constant amount of secrets and odd matter of fact-ness about things which didn't seem altogether clear in the story though, detracted from my liking the book quite a bit.
Also, the fact that the same characters kept popping up in the same places at the same time was more suspension of belief than I could handle.
Oh the potential! Regency era from the perspective of a female London street urchin turned magician's apprentice. But then said urchin never does anything. She literally just watches things happen. And I couldn't keep the characters straight because there were about 57 of them, the majority of which seemed to be upper class 20ish white men.
Давайте я сейчас сразу сделаю аванс на вторую часть (ныне оба романа серии издают под одной обложкой) и скажу, что вот в этой книге я обнаружила примерно всё, чего ждала от "Shades of Milk and Honey".
I read this book on a lark, hoping to finish all I can by this child-hood favorite author.
I do wish that there had been more of Kim's former life as a street thief included here, as well as more illusion magic but the rest of the book made up for the lack.
I was happy that I didn't figure out the Whodunit before the book came to the conclusion, since that always bugs me.
I loved all the comedy and humor found within the book as well.
One of my all time favorite books from Wrede, I keep this one constantly loaded on my nook. Kim is a girl on the streets masquerading as a boy and takes a job to break into a street magician's wagon...only to discover he's a real magician.As always Wrede gives real attention to all her characters minor and major and the dialogue feels genuine and the banter is enjoyable. I come back to the book frequently and love it every time.
Alright...more like 3.5-3.8. -shrug- I liked the ending - the last chapter. And it was decidedly entertaining...but...I don't know. I didn't like that Kim still believed that Marielon would't want her around at the end of the book. That bothered me a bit. Among other things that I just...didn't like.But it was a good book.
Entertaining fantasy set in a historical England. Too many characters to keep track of but it doesn't really matter for following the plot. Except for a "reveal" chapter near the end of the book that is like a high speed farce, the action is good.
A Matter of Magic is this book plus Magician's Ward
Mairelon is excellent, though I haven't decided whether or not it's cliche.
Just plain fun! Sadly, the climax took about 50 pages and wasn't very climactic at all. Still, entertaining on the whole. A quick, fun read.
Surprisingly good.
It has been on my to-read list so long that I kind of have ignored it.
I thought it would be a kind of silly children's fiction where the main character and her best friends go on a magical and unrealistic adventure.
It was funny and amusing, exciting, and I liked the added vocabulary and their accents so that you can really visualize how they talked and it just felt more realistic.
I also liked the magical aspects of it, it was quite good, and I don't like a lot of magical books.
I would highly suggest this book and the next one even though I haven't even read it yet.
I've loved Ms Wrede since I read the Enchanted Forest Chronicles, and I've made it my mission to read every book by her, whether or not it sounded like something I would enjoy.
A girl who stays disguised as a boy on the hard streets of London, a magician who is sort-of not-really on the run, and his loyal servant who has no qualm about speaking his mind, and an entire book littered with thieves' cant and interesting turns of phrase.
I'm so glad I was able to pick up both books at the library, so I can turn right around and read the second one!
Wow, this book...
Those long, rambling scenes that just got more and more unbelievably ridiculous as they went on.
They had me laughing so hard.Great, great book.
The old-fashioned English words were sometimes hard to decipher, and I've read a lot of historical fiction taking place in that time.
It takes a bit of the joy away from a book when you have to re-read sentences to try and figure out what the fudge the main character had actually just said.Still, great great book - and I'm really looking forward to reading the sequel.
I was going to give this book four stars--probably should have given it four stars--but it appealed to my humorous nature.
At times this book was so damn funny I'd have to stop reading and laugh for a solid ten minutes before I started again.
Most of this book was like watching a comedic soap opera happening where you love to make fun of the characters.
I also finished it in the same day I started reading it--even if it was short--I didn't do any of my homework, which is going to take another hour at least, and it's already 2:41 AM and I need to wake up at 6:00 AM, so I'd better get to doing that now.
