https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5604848-destined-for-an-early-grave
5 Marital Problems Stars First read 2/23/2014 Reread 11/22/2015 "Let's see how long someone lasts if they suggest that my wife is not my wife."-Bones "Bloody sneaking bastard," Bones ground out, even as my jaw dropped. "I'll congratulate him on his cleverness - while I'm ripping silver through his heart."-Bones*Spoiler Below*My heart OMG my heart. Destined For An Early Grave, the 4th book in the Night Huntress Series, was a nail biting, angsty read! The drama is so high in this book my stomach t
While on vacation Cat starts having dreams of a vampire named Gregor, in which he tells her that he is her husband, not Bones.
Can Bones and Cat's relationship make it past a forgotten husband, or will Gregor tear their love apart?
Cat is worried that Gregor is going to try to kill Bones because vampire laws says it's death to a vampire that sleeps with another vampire's spouse.
I love that Cat turns to Vlad when Bones and her are apart.
Solid 4 Stars I enjoyed this book much more than the last one. The writing was fantastic, the dialogue engaging, the romance prominent, and the witty one liners never fail to put a smile on my face. But the best part was Cat finally, FINALLY putting Tate in his place. It was about time!
5+ stars – Vampire Romance/Urban FantasyConsidering this is one of my top preferred PNR series, that Cat and Bones are my favorite kick-ass romance couple, that Bones is my #1 all-time beloved bad boy vampire hero, and that I LOVED the previous three books, especially my favorite One Foot in the Grave; my expectations for Destined for an Early Grave were incredibly high.
With a manipulative, vengeful, cunning Master vampire named Gregor claiming marital rights to Cat, not on your undead life.The story picks up soon after the events of At Grave’s End with Cat and Bones embarking on an extended holiday for some much needed R&R, but their plans for a romantic Paris holiday are ruined by the powerful Master vampire Gregor, known as the Dreamsnatcher, who’s terrorizing Cat’s dreams.
Gregor (aargh!!!)This is the book where Cat and Bones are crazily in love and married and spend a few lazy days in Paris.
And suddenly hell breaks loose.Cat starts having dreams that are nightmares or memories.
Fights between them will start, while they distrust each other.Cat does not trust Bones' abilities and cunning mind.
Bones does not trust Cat FULL STOP.Gregor, Vlad, Tate can make even the most sensible vampire crazy with jealousy.And all these happen will Gregor, the dreamsnatcher, waits for his apportunity to snatch Cat because obviously he wants his wife back.People will change.
So much drama and heartbreak this time around!In book 4/7 of the Night Huntress series, Cat is pursued by an egotistical asshole vampire - in her dreams.
He goes after Cat, who he claims is his wife.
Another full-out vampire war breaks out - haven't we been here before?
Makes me wonder how anyone under Bones' line has survived since Cat showed up.
I also can't wait to read more about Marie, the badass voodoo ghoul queen of New Orleans.One thing that did make me blue: (view spoiler)[ Rodney's death!
*sob*  (hide spoiler)]["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
where was a festering yeast infection when I needed one? Gosh girls, how many times have we all had this thought? If I had a nickel for every time I thought this, I would have.... well, considering I'm thinking about it now... a nickel. Okay, not really going to buy mama some new shoes, but still, it made me laugh. Cat makes me laugh a lot, which is one of the things I love about this series. But, sheesh, the angst in this book!!!Tell me about it, kid. It was brutal.You know those couples that
If I had a nickel for every time I thought this, I would have....
Cat makes me laugh a lot, which is one of the things I love about this series.
Again.They are almost as bad as one of these couples:Yes. That bad.So, even though there is a storyline going on about some other vampire dude who wants Cat (she's like Vampire Viagra or something), it is really about their relationship.
On the positive side, I loved the relationship between Cat and Vlad.
However, I liked the first three a lot more after reading them a second time so I might feel different about this one too if I read it again.On the bad side, Bones and Cat fight a lot in this book.
I wanted them to make up but with all the things they pull on each other I thought it would take a lot more time and work before they would forgive each other especially for Cat. I think my biggest issue though is that the first three books still kept a sense of humor and fun even when things got tense and complicated.
I feel like that was missing in this book.
⋰⋱⋰⋱⋰⋱*The 'meh' in the series*⋰⋱⋰⋱⋰⋱  Second re-read: 07.11.2018 The forth book in the series starts months after book three (six years from book one). Half-vampire Catherine ‘Cat’ ‘Cathy’ ‘Kitten’ ‘Commander’ ‘The Red Reaper’ Kathleen Crawfield (27) and her vampire bounty hunter/hit man Crispin Phillip Arthur Russell III (Crispin was his human name) ‘Bones’ (247), are now in another mess; someone is claiming that Cat's their wife, not Bones' and this is causing quite a wall between the two of
Dave gets killed by a vampire and at end of the book two, Rodney and Bones makes him a ghoul.
Juan gets turned into a vampire by choice by Bones.→ Denise, Cat's friend for over three years.
He was Cat's third captain.→ Mencheres (over 4000, though from his appearance, you wouldn’t think he was a day over 25), the vampire who made Ian, so that makes him Bones' fang granddaddy/grandsire.
(hide spoiler)]→ Sonya and her husband (bonded vampire couple), Noel, Bones and Cat's hosts for their stay in Paris.→ Marie ‘Majestic’ Laveau, New Orleans’s queen, one of the most powerful ghouls in the nation.
Although it's a sometimes rocky road that Cat and Bones must follow, with lots of obstacles that test their love, and jealousies and insecurities they have to deal with, they clearly have an enduring love that I feel will stand the test of time.
But headstrong, impulsive Cat likes to confront her problems head-on, so you just know her curiosity will get the better of her...This leads to all kinds of problems in her relationship with Bones.
I just love this series!!! ❤️
When I had finished At Grave’s End, the third book in Jeaniene Frost’s Night Huntress series, I was on the fence whether I wanted to go ahead and read Destined For An Early Grave.
What happens after that will have you clutching the book and gasping because the thought of Bones and Cat not being together is horrible.Not only does Destined For an Early Grave give the reader more insight on the vampire culture Jeaniene has created, but this is where she shows how important friends and family are.
In fact, I hated Cat and her beliefs about vampires and wasn’t that enamoured by Bones in the previous three books.
Going into this, my favourite book was One Grave at a Time, but after reading Destined to an Early Grave, I love this one more!I know Frost fans hated the fighting between Cat and Bones, but for some odd reason I revelled in it.
No, I didn’t laugh evilly every time they fought, but I thought that Frost did a great job of showing the ups and downs of a relationship.
Most of the time, Bones and Cat fought because of misunderstandings.
Instead of meeting people with an attitude, she acts like a decent person unless they give her a choice otherwise.Vlad was great too - the vampire is too funny and he rocked every scene he was in, which was several.
My eyes were glued.There's trouble in paradise with Bones and while sometimes it was a little too angsty, there was relief to see real emotion from Cat. With what he planned, they had to have some series regulars at play - mainly Slade and Vlad - and I found the two in the house and with different scenes to be fascinating.
(total jerk move by the way) Does that seem like the Bones from the last book?
He is a great friend to Cat. I love that he pushes her about her feelings about Bones.
I felt more sympathy for Bones, but mostly because Cat burned through any sympathy I had for her in the last book with her handling of the Tate situation.
I find Cat's differences as a vampire intriguing, although I feel bad that she still can't be just one of the masses.As of this moment I do not plan to read anymore of the books following Cat and Bones.
A lot of the time when I'm coming towards the end of a book, I start to think about what I want to say in my goodreads review and with this Night Huntress novel the first word that came to mind was 'rollercoaster'.
Frost did right bringing Gregor into the picture to see how Bones could cope with someone that Cat had been emotionally involved with before, especially seeing as a) He has exes by the thousands, and b) Danny the wimp doesn't count.
Some of Bones and Cat's behaviour was infuriating and it felt like Frost had dipped into the well once too often with some of her story arcs.
Crazy happenings ensue as the "no means yes" former school girl snatcher tries to drag Cat kicking and screaming to his bed!
Another real irritation was the behaviour of both Cat and Bones.
Bones was an asshole at times to Cat even stormed off in a drama laden huff at one point.
Frost managed to keep my attention as the story moved along at a rapid pace.
I'm not entirely sure why I read this entire series.
Certainly the writing sometimes left something to be desired and eventually the plot became so ridiculously beaten, abused and tormented that I briefly considered starting a home for it and marketing telethons help others like it.I think the only thing that saved this ENTIRE series for me was the relationship between Bones and Cat. Passionate, loving, flawed, sometimes almost breakable, realistic.
I don't know and since I had to turn my brain off to read this last installment, it's hard to get it going again.So, read this series at your own risk.
(hide spoiler)] They did everything they could but the guy Gregor refused to give up, sent lots of people after them to kill Bones and capture Cat.(view spoiler)[ He planned on turning her into a vampire Ghoul so he could control her powers as her seir, but Bones bested him and turned her into a vampire and became her seir (hide spoiler)]Bones and Gregor entered a duel to the death and the winner can claim Cat, but before the fight Gregor kidnapped Cat's mother (view spoiler)[ then turned her into a vampire (hide spoiler)].
Amazing! May I ask for more of Vlad and Ian?? All the time I thought that something is wrong with the vow between Cat and G. this book was clever!Yup, and something about Marie! :D
What's the best part of fighting? Making up, of course! When Cat and Bones head to Paris for a holiday, a vampire named Gregor, who has romantic ties to Cat's past, has something very different planned. Another great installment!
This novel ripped out my heart and had me gasping with surprise. Can't wait to read what Cat and Bones are up to next.
Gah, this book had me twisted up!I love Bones and Cat and I love how each book has a crazy storyline and the awesome couple has to overcome whatever is thrown their way.In this book someone wants Cat and he claims that he is her TRUE (a.k.a. her first husband).
I was glued to the pages and I didn’t want to stop reading because I didn’t know what was going to happen.Would Cat go to her other husband?
What does it mean for the perfect couple?I love how each book the relationship between Cat and Bones progresses.
I'm hurdling towards the end, gaining on the seventh book that ends this series and ends my voyeuristic adventures with Bones and Cat. Those two sure got a beating this time around!
I had to sneak a peak farther into the book to appease my heartbreak--I don't like to cheat, but I honestly needed to know when to expect some making up!From the beginning our fearless couple dealt with some gut-wrenching revelations, the biggest being Cat previously making a blood bond(vampire marriage) with someone else.
He knows she loves him more than anything but the revelations that she may have been given to another tears him apart and brings his own insecurities to the forefront.
Cat and her undead vampire lover Bones are taking an long overdue holiday, to finally get away from the fighting and trouble that has filled their lives of late, that is until Cat starts to dream of a vampire whom wants her and will do anything to have her!
This books pick up a few weeks later after At Grave’s End, with Cat and Bones trying to take it easy, no such luck when Cat starts having dreams of a vampire whom claims to be her vampire husband!
While romance was on a break with Grave’s End, this time around romance takes center stage as things come to head between Cat and Bones.
The book starts off with Cat and Bones getting some much needed R&R.
(hide spoiler)] The stress of dealing with Gregor brings some serious issues between Bones and Cat to surface, which ends up fueling some emotional fights and one pretty crazy physical smackdown.
The issues between Cat and Bones go on for a large majority of the book.
It is a change of pace for the series because Cat and Bones aren't working together against outside forces, planning secret missions and battling it out as a team like in the past.
What also worked really well to balance out the depressing state of Cat and Bones's relationship were the secondary characters.
4 Fighting Stars.In this fourth book Cat and Bones are facing the most personal battle of their lives: their love.
Bones will also do everything to keep her, and Cat will fight for their love either, but when secrets for the past are revealed putting everything they used to believe and their own feelings at stake, in the end probably won’t be anything to fight for, anyway.
Bones and Cat relationship suffered a lot of blows and there was some moments real hard to read where I kept thinking: “let’s just skip these parts and go straight to the end”.
One of my favorite things about the whole book was that, for the first time, Bones had a little “competition” for Cat. Throughout their relationship to date, Cat had nothing compared to the history that Bones had and I found it rather entertaining that he felt so threatened by Gregor.One of my least favorite things, but I think it added it to the reasons I liked it (I know I am weird, I know), was how big of a JERK Bones was.
I also was so glad to read more about one of my favorite character’s Vlad, and I loved how he stood by Cat’s side even when there was trouble in paradise!This book, like the three before, was full of my favorite one liners and fantastic dialog and humor.
Cat and Bones are back in book four of Jeaniene Frost's Night Huntress series.
Her dreams are of a blond vamp who 'feels' just as powerful as Bones and he keeps saying she's HIS.
Bones too, suffers from things in his past that impact Cat's ability to trust which drives Bones nearly insane.
Cat and Bones struggle with the balance of power and trust issues throughout this book.
I think more of their inner selves are revealed in "Destined for an Early Grave" than any of Jeaniene Frost's earlier books in this series.
I feel like I should write two reviews for this, one for the majority of the book and one for the ending.
Have you ever had a female friend who would sit around and whine about the horrible problems in her relationship, while blaming everything on herself?
Are you going to sit back and cry over losing him while he treats you like a doormat?!
Of course, if this book wasn't written from only Cat's point of view, then we might have known that her love, "Bones" was not the total jerk that we thought he might be.
You know that couple who love each other overwhelmingly, but are just so volatile together, you think they'd be better apart?
Cat and Bones become that couple.I was sure they'd murder each other before the threat was resolved.
About halfway through the book, I was ready for Cat to erase Bones from her life.
Saying despicable things during an argument may be realistic, but I just don't want to read about it for 3/4 of a book, and then have things be suddenly hunkey-dorey.And I've decided that although Bones fits a sexy template, he's still flat.
