https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25708.Saint_Thomas_Aquinas
Even so, the book is a pleasure to read from start to finish, chock full of interesting tidbits on the saint, philosophy, religion, science, and a myriad of other subjects which Chesterton brings to bear on the reality of reason and fidelity of faithfulness.Étienne Gilson, the leading Thomistic scholar of the twentieth century (and someone I am struggling to even to begin to understand!) called it ‘as being without possible comparison the best book ever written on St. Thomas’.To that I can only add, it is also the most enjoyable to read and/or listen to.
I also know that the compellingly baited hooks of our own “age of uncommon nonsense” (Chesterton’s phrase) are sometimes difficult not to swallow.
Nonetheless, this is a bright, bracing book and it’s got me excited to pick up some of Chesterton’s other titles again.
Before much time passes at all we realize that it is no longer Aquinas who stands in the shadow of Augustine, but Augustine and the whole Church who stand in the valley below the feet of the great giant, the feet of the 'Angelic' Doctor who hardly spoke of his angels, who saw something (or Someone) which made all his writings as straw.We meet a man in these pages who raised the long-dead champion of rationale, Aristotle himself, from the grave, and proceeded to baptize him into the faith.
Chesterton has spoiled me with this enchanting story of the remarkable personality of St. Thomas Aquinas.
I listened to the audiobook.
This was my first Chesterton, and I surely am going to read as many of his other books as i can.
The book is a brief outline of St. Thomas Aquinas' life, a bit of a high-level comparison with St. Francis, and, in the last few chapters, a broad but passionate look at St Thomas' theology, its sublety, its power, and an attack on Martin Luther, who, among other things, burned the Summa Theologia.
In the author's words, on the map of Thomas' intellect, Luther's map is so small you would struggle to see it.
What the bulk of substance is about is a critical analysis of St. Thomas' theology compared and contrasted with St. Augustine's and also later Martin Luther's.
Mostly, though, it is like all of Chesterton's literary essays, which are a comparative and contrast to the Spirit of the Age, which dares to call itself rational and enlightened.Chesterton is a Catholic, through and through, and while I don't hold that against him, I must confess I am more in Augustine and Luther's camp than Aquinas'.
I would not mind reading another biography or at least a book about Aquinas' doctrines to get a better idea of how well supported his theses are.
I am a huge Chesterton fan, and I've been wanting to read more about the men and women of faith who have come before us.
Chesterton assumes you already know the work - this book, although it claims to be a biography, is more of an analysis of the man as revealed through his work.
It doesn't delve deep into his philosophy or theology, but it does paint a picture of him assuming that the reader already KNOWS his philosophy and theology.
That said, I DO plan on going back and reading Aquinas' work.
Chesterton at his most anti-pomo.
The last two or three chapters alone worth the price of admission.
They are also the chapters that do the bulk of explaining Thomistic philosophy; beyond that most of it is autobiography, but for that reason, might even be good for the high school student.That said, Chesterton gives some amazingly good descriptions of Luther the Augustinian monk; that's my guy.
Of course, he's wrong, quite wrong, that Luther was against the use of the reason or will, but a bit closer to home when he says it was a matter of emphasis in many ways.
Had he spent less time going after Luther (just one of his many "rabbit trails"), he could have spent more time explaining the philosophy of Aquinas.Maybe so many people have given this book five stars because they haven't compared it with what a good introduction to a person's thought should look like.
Comparing Chesterton's book to Feser's puts Chesterton's work in its proper light: as a sub-par introduction to the man's thought.
Chesterton is writing more of a biography and Feser more of an introduction to his philosophy.
Chesterton presents Aquinas' recovery of Aristotle as a rescue of the Incarnation and the goodness of God manifest in creation from the negativity and hyper-spirituality of Augustinianism.
He then says Luther and the Protestant Reformation abandoned Aquinas' view and returned to Augustine's Puritanical vision of total depravity.
He compared Calvinism to Manicheeism, saying that these are two major systems that make God the Author of evil by viewing the created order itself as hopelessly corrupt.
I found his entire discussion fundamentally wrong-headed.
While there were many brilliant insights and clever witticisms, the main point of the book was, I believe, just flat wrong.
I did not know much about Aquinas before I read this book. I should not have started with this one.One reviewer stated this is not a typical biography. I agree. Maybe because of that and not knowing much about Aquinas, I could not really get engaged with the book. I am not going to rate it because GK Chesterton is a Catholic icon. However, if I did, I would give it 2 stars... Just OK.
This is certainly not a biography but more of a love letter to a revival of Thomism against modernism. Chesterton's biting sarcasm can grow tiresome, but one clearly picks up on his affection for Aquinas. The latter sections of he book are helpful for grasping the basics of Aquinas's ontology. Good introductory reading for Aquinas before digging into a monster like the Summa.
This is, hands down, the best biography of Thomas Aquinas ever written. I recommend that all students of Saint Thomas Aquinas read this bio by Chesterton!
Conta-se que Gilson, depois de o ler, não conseguiu conter palavras para expressar sua admiração:Considero-o, sem a menor possibilidade de comparação, o melhor livro jamais escrito sobre Santo Tomás… Chesterton foi um dos pensadores mais profundos de todos os tempos…Pois li o dito livro de Chesterton sobre São Tomás.
Since he was a devout Catholic, I expected an excellent book on Thomas.
You will get a great deal more out of this book if you have already read an encyclopedia article on both him and the 13th century.The book is really a hagiography of Thomas, a series of meditations about the man, his life and his thought.
Thomas himself would have chided Chesterton for his incivility and unfairness.If you are looking (as I was) for an entry-level introduction to Aquinas, look elsewhere.
Josef Pieper's "A Guide to Thomas Aquinas" would be a good place to start.
Chesterton’s biography of Thomas Aquinas is so defensive and sarcastic in tone that it does not seem realistic.
The defensiveness is not Aquinas’s, but seems to be the result of trying to show his relevance to modern concerns.I was interested in knowing how Aquinas was influenced by the Jewish Maimonides and the Muslim Averroes, but we are only told that the saint was so good as to listen to them.
With regard to his philosophical positions, I would be more interested in learning about Aquinas on his own terms, when he is not battling 20th century preconceptions.
He wanted to be a friar, rather than a monk (with an abbey and maybe higher as his assured post)--nowadays most won't discern the difference, but it seems to be akin to someone chosing to work in a soup kitchen, when the relatives want to make you the CEO of a high profile charity organization.When I first looked at the book, Chesterton was giving a word picture of a medieval banquet in Paris, which in those days was in the midst of its Gothic building under the fervent eye of St. Louis, and on the strength of those two pages I bought the book off a used rack.Well, there is scant detail of that sort, but a great deal of fascinating insight into medieval thinking, especially about being and non-being, and how Aquinas reshaped contemporary thought.
Chesterton packs more theology and philsophy into this slim volume, and makes it much more accessible, than any massive tome on same subject.
I don't think I've ever read any thing that combines brevity and challenging ideas like this book.
The best compliment is that this book has now motivated me to read the Dumb Ox himself, and I've already picked up two volumes of his works.
I ended up reading both together, Chesterton in the morning, Eco at night, and they dovetail in all sorts of intriguing ways, each shedding monastic light on the other.
Chesterton may not make the life of Aquinas crystal and simple like we might expect a biographer to do, but he does illuminate much about the character and the philosophy of the man and make it very graspable.
At the end of this book, I am not floundering for a light switch or buried under heaps of heavy intellectual thoughts.
Chesterton has made me think clearly and in a new way in more than one place, and has made me smile in dozens; and he done so while teaching me about one of the greatest minds I've ever read and some others along the way.
I like this little book.
Sometimes very hard to follow. This was my first Chesterton book. He's incredibly smart and from what I've read about him, a very versatile and deep author. However, as much good information as he put in this book, he got very rambly and off-topic, and it took him a while to bring the topic around to being relevant to St Thomas, making it hard (for me at least) to follow. You might need to do some homework before you read this book...
This is one of the most "accessible" treatments of the Great Catholic theologian ever written, and Chesterton's insights into his character and his impact on the development of Christianity and Western culture are invaluable. Read this before reading anything else about Aquinas.
I like the fact that even when Chesterton gets his facts wrong (as he does often when dealing with Augustine or anything about the Reformation) his ideas are still right. This was also a great book for getting random insights into Dante, who relied heavily on St. Thomas.
Some friends and enemies are mentioned by name, but most are not.Nor does Chesterton provide an orderly introduction to Aquinas’ philosophy or theology, though he comes closer in the former case than in the latter.
Using Saint Thomas’ life and thoughts as his pericopal text, he seeks to outline the moral values and intellectual motifs necessary for a working, vibrant Christian theology.
It’s only with a firm assurance in the created, objective world that chief Christian dogmas like Incarnation, Crucifixion, and Resurrection provide any real theology.
That is why, in recent literature, there has been so little argument and so much sneering.” There’s good reason for Chesterton being oft-quoted.
I appreciated Chesterton's reinterpretation of "progress" as a succession of one generation rebelling against the thought and patterns of the one which preceded it, noting that this tendency eventually ends badly because people lose sight of what they are actually rebelling against.
We lose the good in the attempt to replace everything with the new and novel.This St. Thomas Aquinas biography was published after another work Chesterton produced about the life of St. Francis.
Chesterton begins with a disclaimer that the book is a general panorama of the life, ideas, and writings of St. Thomas.
Yes, I must recognize that I enjoyed the bits on the early life of St. Thomas, the Dumb Ox and learned how he "baptized" Aristotle into the church, simultaneously brushing me up on Aristotle and his ways of logic, realizing that the book is polluted with many general statements in dire need of specific statements– ironic.
I learned about the medieval era and mind, very nice indeed.
I learned about Aquinas and I like him.
Chesterton was a bit rough on poor Martin Luther, probably because he burnt Aquinas's books.
He said the Augustinians emphasized "the impotence of man before God, the omniscience of God about the destiny of man, the need for holy fear and the humiliation of intellectual pride, more than the opposite and corresponding truths of free will or human dignity or good works," that "emphasizing the one was to flatly contradict the other." Well!
For centuries the opposite and corresponding truths were the only ones emphasized!
Chesterton indeed sets out to do precisely what he aims to do: an anecdotal bird's-eye survey of key moments in Aquinas's life and thought combined with terse practical suggestions on what to do with Aquinas's philosophy.
Thus, I don't fault Chesterton (certainly I have no authority to do that); I simply agree with his own appraisals of its shortcomings (though "intentional limitations" is probably more accurate).
If you are familiar with Aquinas, this is worth reading at least once for Chesterton's philosophical appraisals.
For protestants with an uninformed view of how Chesterton feels about Luther (not highly), this is also worth checking out.
It did a great job of forcing me to read Chesterton's nonfiction, which has always eluded me when I've tried it before.
For my own part, I know a little, but I felt it was a very little as I occasionally had to hang on for dear life, pulling meaning from context rather than facts.That is not to say that the book wasn't good, but it did mean that I will be reading another book to actually get a more linear biography of Aquinas's life.I foresee many pleasurable rereadings of this book, which I am sure will reward me increasingly each time.Also, I really appreciate this book for forcing me to come to grips with Chesterton's nonfiction, as I mentioned above.
Chesterton writes like a waterfall or a thunderstorm; he is grand and brilliant and he doesn't take things slow.
He's one of the best and brightest, and he's got personality coming out of the ass.A word on the book.It's a trifle misleading--that is, it's hardly a biography.
Chesterton could hardly do something confined solely to dates and facts.
Not that he doesn't use facts--in abundance--but I feel that merely retelling a story without any grand denunciations of this or that logical fallacy, without any passages of triumph or agony, would torment him.
Brilliant as usual.
Like most Chesterton,I've read I think I've understood less than 10% of what was intended, but enjoyed the confusion, and feel an impulse to begin again at once, the better to get a little more.
It's a tasty little nugget that admirably fulfills its stated purpose of whetting the appetite for a more complete biography of St. Thomas, and a deeper outline of his thought.
Second reading, 2 years later: This time, I listened with a purpose in mind: If I accept the idea that St. Thomas Aquinas was in many ways an ideal Dominican, what does he teach me about the Dominican charisms, and in what ways might I ask to be conformed to his example?
