https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1148113.Bimbo_and_Topsy

A great book that will amuse young children for hours. Topsy is the star turn here with her thinking that Bobs ( the older dog ) melts, thinking that she can see the moon in a pail of water, and a full chapter on her teasing activities. She is an adorable little puppy who is a mirror image of my wife who is also called Topsy.
One of my favourite childhood books that I have since lost. It's a shame, after all that trouble stealing it from the doctor's office :(
The first 'novel' I ever read on my own.
Sweet story that can make you an animal-lover! The innocence of animals, their conversations and their love for each other - all make for an excellent read. I read and re-read this as a child, well into my teenage years, just to experience that simplicity of life and relationships again.A great gift for children.
My mom didnt have a dog or cat when she read this book and neither do I.Bimbo is a male kitten and Topsy is a female puppy.
Although the pictures of them on the cover appear to look like Bimbo is the girl and Topsy is the boy !The new pets both get up to mischief in their new homes.
When Topsy ate it she started blowing bubbles.I am looking forward to having a kitten of my own, a black stripy one called Sparkle !This was my first Enid Blyton book and I would like to read more of her books because they sound exiting.
My mum had this book when she was little she gave it to me to read all by muself now. I am 7 years old and I love this book because i love kittens and it is cute when they go in the pantrey and eat the custard and all the food! :) Liam
A delightful and uplifting collection of stories about friendship and getting up to mischief, I still enjoy reading this now, it hysterical and amusing and will have you laughing out loud. You will also start looking at your own pets in a completely different light
Without ant shadow of doubt, this particular Blyton book was the individual childhood favourite of both of my girls. The stories of Bimbo and Topsy are timeless classics and are absolutely delightful. We are all truly fortunate to have such books available to share with our children.
Not a favourite, but I did quite enjoy this when I was younger :)
One of my favourite childhood books too and couldn't wait to buy it for my son to read. Shame it didn't last for longer, but a delightful book nevertheless!
One of my favorite books of all time! This book is so funny I could read it again and again! So happy to have got in primary school! :-)
one of my favourite books when i was a little girl :)
I have actually read this several times...it was the first real book that I read while we were over in Europe for several months when I was about 5 years old...It is absolutely adorable!!
Enid Blyton AND an animal story. How could you go wrong?
Read this in one day. great book
Loved this book as a child, used to get so excited reading the christmas chapter :)
I read this over and over again as a child.
It is still one of my favourites.
