https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76030.Groucho_and_Me
Autobiografia più o meno.Non è la classica autobiografia piena di “introspezioni” o di successi, ma piuttosto il racconto di una vita dedicata a racimolare soldi, possedere un’auto, conoscere ragazze, lavorare nel varietà.
Cinquant’anni tra un quartiere di New York con una famiglia veleggiante tra lo squinternato e lo squattrinato, le mille piccole città che sono state la gavetta dei fratelli e poi il trasferimento in massa a Los Angeles..Piacevole, rilassante, con qualche risata e un sorriso costante.Bella la chiusa con la coppia che, incontratolo casualmente a Chicago, gli gira un po’ intorno fino a che la signora si fa coraggio e chiedeÈ lei, vero?
È Groucho?Annuii.Allora mi toccò timidamente un braccio e dissePer favore non muoia.
Continui a vivere.Si può desiderare di più?12.01.2018
This book doesn't have the cutest title (that would be Memoirs Of A Mangy Lover), nor does it have the cutest illustrations (that would also be Memoirs Of A Mangy Lover due to Al Hershfeld's cunning caricatures), but it does have the best account of Groucho's life and career and that's saying something. Show-biz fans, particularly Marx Bros. fans who are curious should not be disappointed.
Una genialidad del humor. Consiste en anécdotas de su vida, en orden mas o menos cronológico, salpicadas de observaciones agudas e irreverentes, totalmente un must read para cualquier aficionado al teatro o al cine clásico o simplemente para quien busque reírse. A través del libro se dibuja la época dorada del teatro de bodevil y la vida de sus artistas, los inicios de Hollywood, la radio y la televisión.
Just what you would expect from Groucho. No revelations, very little about his life. Really just a series of anecdotes of show biz life, vaudeville, movies, tv, etc etc. All written in a highly humorous fashion. Those of us old enough to remember Groucho will hear his voice narrating it.
The best autobiography ever. I agree completely with what Mrs. Calabash says on the blurbs. I wish more people would write their autobiographies this way and enough of the oh-so-serious tones. Let's have no more of the endless boasts about illustrious ancestors and goody-goody anecdotes.
I was a bit disappointed by the book only in that I had hoped to more of the history of the brothers and the act. On the other hand the humour that poured out on every page more than made up it. I laughed at nearly every turn of the page. This was a wonderful read and I whole heartedly recommend it for any fan of the brothers.
I was honestly (and naively) hoping for Harpo Speaks mk2, but Groucho SURPRISINGLY is no where near the story teller.
As a Marx Brothers fan I loved some of the stories and anecdotes, but there was less of the person than I felt in Harpo speaks.I also found the fairly constant referencing of Money fairly crass.
I dont in any way mind the man being rich, I love that he earned so well.
But to me you talk loud by saying nothing, in particular in relation to wealth.Worth reading for Marx fans.
And then, at my local library, browsing through biographies and memoirs to fill a space on an adult summer reading program bingo card, a bright yellow cover caught my eye.
I feel like that's probably a very important part of the book enjoyment process, especially as I wasn't inside of a dog at the time.'Groucho and Me' was funny.
I expected it to be funny, and was not disappointed.
I expected to learn things which I did not already know about Groucho and the brothers in general and the path their showbiz career took, and again, was not disappointed.
I was really excited to read this autobiography of Groucho Marx and the majority of the book didn't disappoint.
Groucho tells some terrific stories about growing up Marx with his brothers.
I also loved his tales about Kansas City (it's neat to read what an important tour stop it was back in its hey-day) and what he had to say about living in Chicago for a little while as a teen.But then...!
Then it just turns into a GROUCHy old man (the book was published in 1959) griping about the way things are these/those days.
A fun quick read.
I read this book right after I read A tree Grows in Brooklyn, so I had a whole theme thing going with turn of the century.
The stories that Groucho tells about his family and himself are the types of stories that you would tell about the dinner table to tease each other.
Groucho tells his stories without making himlook like a saint, too.
In fact, it seems like he goes out of his way to show his faults.There's no bragging in this book, or sugar coating.
It's just a fun way to read how Vaudeville evolved into Movies.
La Autobiografía - y biografía - más divertida que he leído en mi vida. Fue una recomendación de mi esposo, y admito que al no conocer a los hermanos Marx ni haber visto ninguna de sus películas creí que me aburriría mortalmente... pero nada más lejos de la realidad: el autor domina magistralmente el idioma, inserta humor en cada página y no teme romper todas las reglas de la estructura narrativa. Lo disfruté de principio a fin.
Only since I'm from the generation that watched Groucho's quiz show "You Bet Your Life" on NBC back in the day, was I somewhat amused to read his dyspeptic, cantankerous account of random events from his life which, he makes clear, is really not anyone's actual definition of an autobiography nor was it meant to be.
Not just humorous, but alos a down-to-earth account of Groucho's travel from rags to riches and a very revealing portrait of the real face of showbusiness.
One of my favourite books of all time. Groucho is funny and clever and totally nuts! Whenever I'm down, I simply read a couple of pages and it cheers me up immediately!
Groucho's pretty amusing. He makes me grin abut he doesn't really make me laugh.
Groucho or rather Julius deliberately and definitely holds back on all personal information about himself or his brothers, but tells some interesting and entertaining stories (of dubious believability) about their early life up to their success on Broadway.
Groucho didn't write his most famous lines, the quips and insults for which he is remembered were in the main scripted by others, so this isn't a book by the character on the screen, but the man behind the greasepaint moustache.
Still entertaining, but the voice in gentler and the wit more rambling and less focused.
However the book doesn't give a clear portrait of either man or myth.
Feeling like he's talking directly to you, the reader, Groucho regales us with anecdotes from his youth through the vaudeville days, both small time, big time, and Broadway.
As the timeline shifts from stage to Hollywood/the 30's, the tone gears down a bit to include more 'what I think about stuff' passages through the last 100 pages, with the odd outright rant in a vague "kids these days" fashion.
It is mostly in good fun, and an invaluable taste of the real man Julius...even though he warns of the opposite, including a light railing against the "as told to" autobiographies, of which brother Harpo released two years later in 1961.
I'm sure I read this "autobiography" when I was about 11 and thoroughly in love with all things Marx Brothers.
But I'm equally sure that much of it went over my head.
At any rate, it's a good thing I read a bunch of other Marx bios back then, because this one would be even more scattershot without a basic grounding in their history.
On its own terms, however, you get Grouch telling stories in that inimitable voice of his - you can actually hear him in your head as you read, because all of his vocal rhythms remain in his writing.
It was entertaining, but not as entertaining or enlightening as I would have expected.
I got bored toward the middle when all Marx wanted to talk about was chasing girls, but then he returned to show business and his career, and it became interesting again.
Marx is definitely one of those men who like women for sex but not much else.
The only woman he talks about with admiration (and who, incidentally, also has a definite personality) is his daughter, Melinda.
Even his two sons rarely get a mention, but Melinda takes up a few pages.
No es una biografía al uso. Empieza con cierto sentido de la cronología, pero a medida que avanza pega saltos temporales (poco definidos en el tiempo, paradojícamente), chascarrillos y achaques de señor mayor. La imaginación y el sentido del humor son Groucho 100%, pero quizá el planteamiento de esta autobiografía no sea el correcto (o su ejecución). Es bastante blandito consigo mismo, omitiendo el lado menos chachi de su vida, al igual que cuando narra aspectos de dicho lado, son bastante superficiales, más dados a la broma y el jolgorio que a una verdadera plasmación de sus vivencias.
This book took me back to when I saw my first Marx Brother's film at the Valentine Theater back when I was in high school. IT was a mini Marx Brother film festival. I've have been a Groucho fan since. Groucho writes all over the place, switching from topic to topic randomly at times, but I enjoyed his quips about vaudeville , show business, and women. I could hear his iconic voice and almost smell his cigar smoke as I read it.
Pretty brutal going after the halfway mark, which is disappointing. For all of Groucho's entertaining and clever anecdotes about the Marx childhood and history of the act, the semi-chronological book completely quits afterward and becomes as disorganized as Harpo's coat. Random stories follow about golf, tennis, his daughter's birthday party, encounters here and there, etc. None of it even bitterly funny, just grumpy. Book becomes as tiresome as sitting on a porch with a boring relative.
Entretenida y dispar novela, llena de anécdotas unas más graciosas que otras. Lleno de curiosidades encadenadas de manera desordenada que dejan entrever los duros comienzos y felices finales de los famosos hermanos Marx. Como libro se hace corto y a mi parecer tan desordenado que se queda un poco escaso de interés pero incluye frases llenas de la ironía del personaje y desde luego pasajes que vale la pena conocer.
The wit and wisdom of Groucho MarxThis wonderful autobiography of Groucho Marx that will leave you laughing from start to finish. It is very thought provoking and timeless in nature despite the many pop and historic references. Some you will probably not understand because pop culture has long since forgotten them. The chapter describing the time leading up to the stock market crash is both remarkably insightful and comedic. It is one great read.
I love Groucho Marx so this is a totally biased review. It is a great read about one of the funniest people to have lived.
An autobriographical masterpiece of the genius of the comedy. Absolutely recommended.Una verdadera maravilla autobiográfica, absolutamente recomendable.
Hilarious and illuminating!
Entretenido y con una vision de la vida muy particular.
Not a standard autobiography but a very funny group of stories.
:)
