https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/625217.The_Last_Summer
পঞচাশের দশকে ডকটর জিভাগো লিখে বিশবখযাতি, নোবেল পুরসকার, সোভিয়েত সরকারের আকরোশ এবং ডেভিড লীনের এপিক সিনেমা, সবই জুটেছিল বরিস পাসতেরনাকের ভাগযে। যে কথাটা অত পরচার পায় না, তা হলো কুড়ির দশকের গোড়া থেকেই রুশ ভাষার অনযতম শরেষঠ কবি হিসেবে সবীকৃত ছিলেন পাসতেরনাক। তার ভাষার কাবযময়তার কিছুটা আভাস পাওয়া যায় ১৯৩৪ সালে লেখা এই আতমজীবনীমূলক উপনযাসিকা থেকে। রুশ ভাষায় সাদামাটা শিরোনাম পাভিয়েসত ("গলপ") - পেংগুইন কলাসিকসের এই সংসকরণে সেটা বদলে রাখা হয়েছে "দয লাসট সামার"। মসকো থেকে দীরঘ টরেন জারনি করে সেরেঝা এসেছে

A strange novella: beautiful in places, with dream-like qualities and hence the reader is often a little lost too.Serezha visits his sister and family in 1916 Russia.
and the fact that the story Serezha tries to write opens "Then it began to rain" because "such drafts inevitably abound in water as an element".There are also some striking metaphors, such as "the streets on an empty stomach were impetuously straight and surly", "her self-assurance, which was softened only by her complete ignorance of her defect" and a prostitute's rug which "with a rare show ofobeisance invited him not to stand on ceremony"!Overall, I liked parts of it, but wasn't won over by the whole.
This was either very poorly translated, or poorly written, or both. It had the feel of a very young man trying too hard to be poetic and quite often missing the mark. The story itself was rambling and amounts to little more than a collection of observations and reminiscences, interesting in parts, but, on the whole, a bit tiresome.
I feel like I'm missing something, maybe it was the translation, or maybe it's something I'll never get, not being able to read Pasternak in Russian. The introduction explained that this book is not a narrative, but 'loosely interwoven reminiscences. Once I got my head around that, I did enjoy some parts.
I did not get it. I didn't understand the ending; I couldn't remember who Lemokh was, because it was so boring and difficult to read. There were phrases, metaphors, sentences and entire paragraphs that made no sense to me.

This came as a disappointment to me after Doctor Zhivago. I really enjoyed some descriptions here, and the draft of the story that Serezha writes, but found myself quite lost in several places, maybe because it delved so deep into Serezha's mind that I didn't care enough (or simply was unable) to break down the metaphors. Perhaps my lack of knowledge about Russian history had something to do with it?(If someone can share a link to a good analysis of this novella, I'd really appreciate it.)
More poetry than prose: perhaps that is why it has such a variety of responses.While the language is very beautiful, the narrative is extremely loose and the 'half-dreamt, half-remembered' style ends up becoming combative. The second half ended up winning me over but by then the story was nearly finished and I left feeling unsatisfied.
One of my favorite books i read when i was kinda young...during the hot humid summer nights at a pale light
Another five star read. A dreamy, sunlit, sweaty obsessive kind of book. I haven't read Doctor Zhivago, but i will . . . someday. Read this if you like Russian fevers. Dostoevsky on a good day.
Abandoned at page 30 as couldn't get on with it - perhaps it was the translation?Too many books and not enough time.
http://wtiw.wordpress.com/2010/04/21/...
This is a master novella,translated into English,the best I have read in 30 years by any author.The descriptions are full of direct visual evocation.
Maybe Povest was published in a journal or a collection, and only published separately as a book when it was translated in 1959 by George Reavey and published by Peter Owen in the afterglow of Pasternak’s Nobel Prize in 1959.The first thing to say about the introduction by Pasternak’s sister Lydia Slater is that it’s more about legacy-building than about clarifying the story.
Because to me, The Last Summer seems to be—thematically—more than about poetry.Slater’s florid assertions to protect Pasternak’s status as a great poet may be because she would have been well aware of Soviet outrage about Doctor Zhivago and the CIA’s machinations to ensure that Pasternak got the Nobel Prize.
When you read this book, remember that it is not a story per se but rather a dream-like collection of reminisces and memories from the main character. There were some parts of the novel where I was lost, I am still not sure exactly what happened with the main character and Mrs Arild when they took the final train journey together, however there is a lot of beautiful writing here which you'd come to expect from the great Russian authors.
Seems like half a novel.So until Boris rises out of his grave, zombies up and writes the other half I am holding off giving him 2 additional stars.
A perfect little September novel
Ik kan me alleen herinneren dat het boek met niet trok en ik de schrijfstijl niet aantrekkelijk vond.Voor de rest heb ik over dit boek nergens iets opgeschreven en kan ik geen goede review schrijven.
