https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/134360.Diane_Arbus
Disturbing, haunting, affecting ...
genius.
Diane Arbus forces us to look at people we'd rather not look at if given the choice, and to think about 'differentness' we'd rather not think about in polite society.
Her photographs, straight-on and unblinking and in un-flattering light, expose and magnify the flaws, awkwardness and differentness of her subjects.
Yet we identify with these unfortunates who for the most part have been born with, and have to bear, a disability (or more politically correct, a challenge).
We have our own flaws, awkwardness and differentness; we're just better at hiding them.
Her subjects are often unusual (and many times nude).
The intensity she captures in people's eyes is so powerful.
You can't help but want to delve deeper, better understand their stories.
From giants to little people, teen lovers to elderly nudists, the balance, curiosity, emotion, power that she depicts makes her one of the greats.
"For me the subject of the picture is always more important than the picture.
And more complicated.
I do have a feeling for the print but I don't have a holy feeling for it.
I really think what it is, is what it's about.
The introduction is by Arbus herself, a pieced-together essay chosen from various sources including an interview with Studs Terkel and audio from a class she taught.
The cobbled together origins explain why the text is interesting but fragmentary, yet it suits its subject-you can imagine Diane Arbus jumping from point to point in conversation as her enthusiasm moved her minute to minute.
I don't know how she did it, but when you look at her pictures you really are staring into its subject in an exhilheratingly intimate way.
I have the original hardcover edition of this book, which I bought in 1972. Diane Arbus came to Atlanta a year or so before her death and gave a talk at Nexus a photographers' collective, if I remember correctly. Over the years, I have returned to this book time and again, always surprised by the images. The book itself is exceptionally well-made, with beautiful reproductions of the photographs. I saw some of the photographs from this book at an exhibit two years ago, and they and this book have stood the test of time.
I have no doubt that Diane Arbus was a tremendously talented photographer. But this collection, and comparable collections by other influential photographers, seem to always have a few gems and then a bunch of filler that just look like simple snapshots. I guess you had to be there or something.
Diane Arbus photography is amazing. The subjects are all extremely unique regular just doing mundane things. They are all beautiful yet eerie in some way.
Diane Arbus takes pictures of very intriguing subjects, and about five of those pictures actually stand out in this collection.
When she gets one of those stand out shots, it's really exceptional.
There are some pictures that are striking and jarring and breathtaking.
Technically, the pictures are over exposed and some are riddled with marks from film development.
I feel like a body of work like this should display the gems and not try to catalogue every picture taken.
Arbus feels more like a one hit wonder than an artist with a solid collection, and this book unfortunately highlights that.
I'm not quite knowledgeable on photography, but Arbus' work has always haunted me. This is a great monograph of her work. My 3 favorite pictures are: Child With a Toy Handgrenade in Central Park, Teenage Couple on Hudson Street, and A Jewish Giant At Home With His Parents in the Bronx.
This is my favorite photographer. Ever. Check out her work, and you will understand why.
"Freaks was a thing I photographed a lot.
Arbus, in my opinion, uncovered a new world of people whose lives, whose very existences, are a complete enigma.
Every Arbus photograph is inescapable.
Every Arbus photograph uses reality as a weapon against the exhibitionist in order to bring us all into the body, soul, or life of a person who many of us would call cursed while others would call them heroes.
Are our own lives truly so fragile that we would feel devastated enough to choose death over life if we were born with a disability or disorder or deformity?
I have such mixed feeling about this collection and the way it was published.
But most of her words here were collected in a scrambled way that made little sense at times.
As for the collection, I am torn between being grateful for her ambition to photograph people who were not typically seen and the thought that she seems to have taken advantage of her subjects ...
Maybe my thoughts will change and develop over time, but as a photography instructor, I have always found Arbus to straddle the line of ...
is she famous because she’s tragic?
Or is she famous because her work is deserving?
Sure, we’re gonna count this as “read” because I’m so woefully behind on my reading goals. This book is mainly one conversational essay with Arbus in the beginning and the rest is a photo essay. Many have argued over her choice of subjects, finding her work discomfortingly voyeuristic, but I find that Arbus seems to approach her subjects with generosity and respect. I’m actually eager to read a little more about her life and have picked up a biography as well.
Diane Arbus looked for life on the fringe. The quality of her photos is unquestionably superior, but her subject matter makes one feel as though they have entered a strange dream. This book is comprised of children with Downs Syndrome, transvestites, and members of a nudist colony. Arbus sought out a side to our reality that most ignore. I believe it was her intention to call the marginalized to our attention.
I've never read anything quite like this. Her words sound like they come from an experience that's simultaneously wholly new and peculiar and intimately familiar to me. And it made me excited to start looking through the photos.
Amazing portraits that tell many stories. It is amazing how Diane Arbus manages to master basic rules in order to break them and get really impactful shots.
What a masterpiece! Available on YT
"I don't particularly like dogs. Well, I love stray dogs, dogs who don't like people. And that's the kind of dog picture I would take if I ever took a dog picture."I think this quote from Arbus sums up her photography. Pictures of people who are/were outcasts. People who you are curious about but social convention doesn't allow you to look at too long. The photographs allow you to linger and to grasp their uniqueness. Arbus' humanity shines through.
I bought this book in the 1980s in Stuttgart. I found it in a small bookshop and was immediately fascinated - I was a teenager and had no idea about fine art photography but Arbus's photo immediately spoke to me - the freaks, misfits and outsiders. As a teenager I felt like one myself so could relate. Or maybe I felt relieved that there are people out there even stranger than myself. I guess it depends on how charitable I feel towards myself.
I love Dian Arbus photographs. They take what people are afraid to look at and look at them hard. Look at them deep. And you end up with these photographs that make you rethink how you see the world and how you define yourself. Her photographs of mentally challenged people in dance attire on a lawn make me cry, they are so tender, they make me proud to be human which so often, considering our species, I am not.
Diane Arbus: Monograph by Diane Arbus (Aperture 2005) (770.92). Diane Arbus was a brilliant photographer. She made the viewer look at things he would rather not see. This is a selection of her best photos chosen shortly after her death. The book includes portions of an interview with the photographer as well as some other personal information, but the photos are what make this book shine. My rating: 7.5/10, finished 2007.
I have a strong love for the outcasts and the disintegrating parts of society. The people and the places that seem like they're about to fall apart at any moment but somehow manage to make it through their lives. That's the thing I love about Arbus, she took the sects of society that nobody wanted to think about and immortalized them in her art. She was a true master of her craft and she really had an eye for the odd.
Her photographs are incredible! I love her so much, I'm sad I haven't heard of her until recently (the wacky/awesome movie "Fur" introduced me, it's loosely based on her life). The intro isn't very long, but so much insight into photography is packed into it that it's worth the price of admission alone.
Good overview of many of Diane Arbus's key photographs - such as the twins, the Jewish Giant, and the nudist colony photos. After reading this for a second time, and now being more familiar with her work, I enjoyed it a lot more.
It's interesting how Arbus managed to capture "normal" and "uncomfortable" in one frame. I'm sure many of her images were even more disturbing back in the 60s and 70s when we weren't used to images of transvestites, nudists, etc.
People are crazy about Diane Arbus and I like her but I'm not crazy about her. Still, as portraiture, she's very interesting. The twins on the cover are among the fabulous, and surely are what expired the Redrum twins in "The Shining."
This book came to me as an introduction to photographs that were not pretty, nor scenic nor family celebrations, which were all I knew at the time. Quite the eye-opener for me, and an influence on my early b/w photographs. I have the edition printed in 1972, shortly after her death.
I first caught a glimpse of this book in a high school english class. I immediately fell in love with it. Love all of her portraits. Eventually I hunted down a copy for my own collection. She has an uncanny ability of making things that are not considered conventionally beautiful beautiful.
Along with Avedon (who helped edit this book!), one of the Best Portraitists Ever - fascinating subject matter and well-composed; the beginning of the book is quotes from her papers and lectures and it's all interesting and well-worth reading. 100% pro-Arbus.
Ow! It hurts just thinking about it!
I went to the exhibit years back- Something about Arbus moves me. The way she captured beauty in untapped places.
