https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31233.The_Holcroft_Covenant
Robert Ludlum does it again. This is my first non Bourne novel by the author and I think I may have enjoyed this even more than that series. It is certainly a close call. Ludlum has a real talent for creating complex plots while keeping the story at page turner speed. Plus, I am a sucker for stories dealing with Nazis as the villains so I was sold from the beginning.
Nazi loot, crosses, double crosses, hidden armies, secret organizations, and a plan to raise the Fourth Reich by promoting the children of former Nazi leaders.
به خوبی سه کتاب دیگه ای که از لادلوم خوندم نبود. پایانش رو اصلا دوست نداشتم. خیلی آبکی جمعش کرد. جزو کتابهای قدیمی این نویسنده هم بود.
The protagonist is brought in and told he is instrumental to the release of this money - to victims.
But he must be silent because if the authorities find out, the money will come under litigation.
It does not even occur to the wonderful hero that perhaps this is best: for the money to come under litigation and for those who have a claim on it to exercise this claim.
No...., it is much more "heroic" and "just" for HIM to decide how to distribute the money himself to the victims (obviously this is not the purpose of the money but from the first, "Noel" shows himself to be entirely without any mental capacity).Awful.
However, the scene is an emblem of the book in that this good idea is soon lost amidst a muddle of counter-plots and clichéd suspense scenes, including characters getting killed just a few seconds before they can reveal something important to Noel.The book has an interesting central idea - in the dying days of the war, three Nazis set aside some money they have embezzled from The Third Reich, supposedly to make restitutions, but in reality to finance a new Reich.
This is classic Ludlum, the creator of Jason Bourne!
I have no words to speak about this man other than he is my favorite author.
He wrote over two dozen books, and the Holcroft Covenant is one of his best works.
His plot structure derived from this novel, and he never wavered.
And never lost the public's eye.
Most of his books were made into movies (great ones too)!
Holcroft is the consummate professional, the protagonist that leads this great book along.
If you've never read the story, I highly recommend you add it to your library.Have a nice day, and happy reading!
What a great book by Ludlum.
I am very glad I stuck with it because from about page 250 and on its hard to put down.You see you feel like you are on this journey with the main character.
Very intriguing how Ludlum wrote the novel in this style to make the reader feel and experience what the hero goes through.Only one negative....you want more!!
The ending of the novel is great, but you don't want it to end.
You want to keep reading about Noel Holcroft and his experiences that must take place after the novel.

Lives of covert agents and those trying to stop them are so much different now than it was in the 70's when this was written and I was toddling around. Amazing the things you could and couldn't do prior to cell phones, computers, digital cameras, etc...  I think that is an added element of intrigue in reading an older thriller.  I've greatly enjoyed all the Ludlum novels I've read and there is no exception here. This is an exciting page turner, action packed, and it keeps you guessing til the end.
Como thriller de conspiración este libro no tiene parangón, de este género ha sido lo mejor que he l
Classic, old-school Robert Ludlum thriller about a sinister plot to financially resurrect the Fourth Reich, and how the protagonist and title character, Noel Holcroft, is an unwitting dupe for most of the storyline, as the villains, through an elaborate ruse, trick Holcroft into thinking that the monies are intended to "make amends" to the victims of the Nazis' atrocities.Action-packed and suspenseful, though it gets almost as confusing for the reader as it does for the protagonist trying figure out who the real good guys and bad guys (and gals) are.RANDOM STREAM OF CONSCIOUSNESS NOTES AND OBSERVATIONS:--p.
53: Hmmmm, is it just me, or did Ludlum have a thing for killing of his characters via throat shots?--p.
337: Ahem, hey Mr. Ludlum, a revolver has multiple chambers, not just one!
This is beyond a shadow of a doubt the stupidest book I have ever read.In this book, set in the 1970s, Noel Holcroft is the son of one of the 3 Nazi officer who syphoned of $780 million dollars from the German Government in World War II.
He and the children of the 2 other officers are instructed to "do good works" with the money 30 years after the end of the war.The problem with the book is what do you do when that occurs?
In Ludlum Thrillers you try and take the efforts to do good works onto yourself, no matter how well prepared you are for the resulting steps you'll have to take.
He is told that his Nazi Father and two friends set up an account of $780 million, which they pilfered from various nations including their own.
The part I find not plausible is where the high ranking Nazis claim they knew nothing of the Holocaust and have set up the account out of guilt to "make amends" with descendents of those who have suffered.
Holcroft is amazingly naive to believe this for one minute, but the Nazis dangle a carrot in front of him and the 2 other covenant members of 2 million dollars each for their trouble.
A great adventure with a twist of WW2 history.
My favorite Ludlum Book. Same old Ludlum formula, but I don't care. It was a fun read. Way better than the movie (Micheal Caine)
The Holcroft Covenant by Robert Ludlum seemed to be a very interesting novel based around the conspiracy that the Fourth Reich is waiting to be born.
The back cover summary of the book makes it sound intriguing and almost a mystery as the bright red print boldly claims that the “only man who can stop [the birth of the Fourth Reich] is about to sign its birth certificate.” However it was much more dreary than the processed action and adventure.
Overall, I thought the idea was incredibly interesting, and I would still love to read other books by Ludlum, but the execution of the theory wasn’t as good as it could have been.
L’autore, infatti, mostra il dipanarsi della storia da vari punti di vista e il lettore è sempre un passo avanti rispetto ai personaggi, sia buoni che cattivi.Anche in questo romanzo si ripropone lo schema vincente, già visto nella trilogia di Bourne, di un protagonista maschile fisicamente forte ma in difficoltà e di quello femminile che lo aiuta (e infine si innamorano).Come unico aspetto negativo ho rilevato la presenza del solito cliché dei nazisti supermalvagi e folli, che compiono le peggiori nefandezze senza il minimo rimorso e che hanno dei seguaci disposti pure a uccidersi per la causa.
What would happen if in the final stages of WWII, high ranking Nazi officials who knew the 3rd Reich was about to collapse, made a bold move and set the wheels in motion to begin the 4th Reich...but not for a very long time...
The answer to WHO is supporting the rise of the 4th Reich is shocking to say the least--and for the reader, immensely entertaining.Let me warn you right away, for those who are hoping for the usual Ludlum launch of action from beginning to end, this might come as a bit of a let-down.
The plot itself actually simple: an ordinary man, named Noel Holcroft, whose job as an architect never dreamed that someday he would be face to face with the ultimate choices, the one that will altered his life forever.
And so this 3 generals thinking there might be away to redeem what the German have done to many of the Jews all over German by embezzled money from Treasury department and kept them in a bank in Swiss to be opened 30 years later by their descendants.For Noel Holcroft turns out this to be not an easy job.
Robert Ludlum, Mr. Plot (Sig. Complotto), qui in grande spolvero in un libro di azione, intrigo, suspense che lascia letteralmente annichiliti di fronte alle trame ordite da questo grandissimo scrittore."Nulla è come è stato prima per te.
Una lettera ricevuta che lo porta dentro un intrigo di portata mondiale che mira a far riemergere il sogno criminale nazista, attraverso gli eredi di quello che fu il terzo reich.Credo che non ci sia nessun dubbio, questo è uno dei migliori libri dal punto di vista della suspance e dell'intrigo "doppiogiochista", un complotto oscuro, terribile e definitivo.
Con tantissima azione, per non annoiarti mai durante la lettura, che è davvero al cardiopalma.Ludlum, come dico sempre è il maestro di questo genere.
The novel concerns Noel Holcroft, New York architect—and secretly the son of Heinrich Clausen, chief economic advisor to the Third Reich.
At some point in the 1970s, Holcroft is contacted by the Grande Banque de Geneve, concerning his father's will and testament.
Now, if Holcroft will contact the children of the two friends, they can form a group to distribute the funds and alleviate some of the pain of the Holocaust.the book has some memorable characters,one being the Tinamoa...the book offers jaw dropping twists and turns, with on of the key features being the awesome ending...
The Holcroft Covenant was the first Ludlum book I ever read, that being on its first publication in 1978.
As well, I was drawn to the protagonist, Noel Holcroft, who in spite of his position and status as a monied New York architect, was an "everyman" character, making his way wide-eyed on an increasingly perilous journey.
Typically Ludlum, I was would discover becoming a fan, he weaves well-plotted adventure around meticulously researched history to satisfying effect.
It chagrins those in search of a "light read", of course, but I was one of those students who actually looked forward to history classes.
Three top Nazis have embezzled $780 million from Nazi funds - and then committed suicide.
Their Covenant, to be inherited by their three eldest children, is to redistribute this vast wealth amongst the survivors of the Holocaust.
Reparation must be made.Conventional Noel Holcroft is one of the inheritors and his mission is to find the other two 'children' and prove himself worthy of his task.
But the Sonnenkinder, the Children of the Sun, are determined to gain control of the millions and establish a Nazi Fourth Reich.
As Holcroft tries to carry out his destiny, he finds himself enmeshed in a bewildering, horrifying nightmare.
Je merkt echt dat Ludlum op het eiland zelf onderzoek heeft gedaan.
Geoloog Alex McAuliff krijgt opdracht een onderzoek te doen in de Cock Pit, een bijna ondoordringbare jungle op Jamaica.
Alex stelt een team samen, maar al in London wordt hij benaderd door iemand van MI-5 , die hem waarschuwt voor het internationale Dunstone syndicaat, dat probeert van Jamaica, vanwege het bankgeheim, een nieuw Zwitserland te maken.
McAuliff komt in een zo onontwarbare kluwen van intriges terecht, dat alleen Ludlum die nog kan oplossen.
Dit maakte dat ik het niet achter elkaar kon lezen.
History repeats itself...unless it doesn't. Unless we learn the lessons of history, and many times lessons are better learned in stories, mythology and tall tales. Robert Ludlum was a master of post-war mythology, spy stories and larger than life characterizations. After the 2016 election, I pulled an old copy of the Holcroft Covenant off my shelf, not for the first time but as an antidote. No spoilers, but let's just say recently truth has been stranger than fiction, and this fiction is even more believable today than it was a generation ago. "They were everywhere. It had only begun."
Though it was kind of a stretch when I started it out, it redeemed itself to the Robert Ludlum expectations. This being my first Robert Ludlum, I thought the plot was being unnecessarily complicated and too much hype was being created for something simple. But then the antagonist came to the fore.I really admire how Ludlum dealt the action sequences. It was really captivating and thrilling, that we could actually visualize the sequences with that brilliant description. The heat of the moment is transferred through efficiently.
This was my first Ludlum book. I haven't even seen the Bourne movies which is surprising. I would rate it a 4.5 Ludlum weaves plot twists and intense action sequences constantly throughout the book. At one point about 3/4 through the book I got confused at which organization was which. Perhaps that was by design seeing as the main character was more confused than me. I wish there was a sequel because the ending left me wanting more. I'd gladly read more of his books!
I didn’t expect to like this book so much. Ludlum tends to be fairly formulaic so there were several twists in the plot that I expected but also many that I did not expect. You can tell that this book set up some of the plot ideas that were carried out in the Bourne series. Also reading it over 30 years after it was written was interesting due to the changes in technology and geopolitics. If the main character had had a smart phone the book would have been much shorter.
This is Ludlum's finest work. A not-stop thriller, riddled with action sitting atop its interesting premise. I've read this book three times in my life. Once as a teenager (in class, blatantly ignoring the teacher while pretending to write with the book in my lap), then as a twenty-something and now in my 30's. It's never disappointed and is as fresh and crisp now as it was back then.
Story tellers of Robert's calibre do but come along once every few generations. I went through a period where what he was writing was perfectly suited to my liking. During this period these books were read a few times over until they were falling apart.The only thing I can say is once you've read one of this era of books, if you like them, you'll read the entire collection.
