https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/598117.Sounder
This was required reading for me in 6th grade. I remember it opening my eyes to racism and I was appalled that anyone would be treated differently because of the color of their skin. Just after I'd finished the book, I walked into the bathroom in the Miami airport and saw two black women standing against the wall. To prove I wasn't racist, I stood between them until one leaned over and mentioned that it was a line. Sometimes it's better to be blind.
Certainly, I value the storyline of poor black sharecroppers--it is an important narrative to tell. I did not, however, enjoy the the ways in which Armstrong told this narrative.Except for the ending, I was bored by his stilted prose. That is my primary issue with the story. In addition, I was annoyed by the nameless characters in this story. I do not buy the suggestion that their namelessness suggests that they represent many poor and rural African Americans during this time. For me, their namelessness suggests that the author may not have really understood the subjects about which he wrote.
I know that Armstrong wrote this as a parallel to the story of Ulysses' dog, and that he intentionally left details ambiguous so that all readers could identify with the characters and setting, but I spent the entire book bothered by the way a white author portrayed an African-American family--none of whom were named.
I know Armstrong said he wrote the book to be universal, but it's not universal.
I also wonder how Armstrong, as a white author, can hope to accurately describe the thoughts of a boy who experiences racism.
He writes of hatred, but I was distracted by wondering how these descriptions could be accurate.
What I liked best of all about this book is that young readers are so often told that no matter how they feel at that moment, everything will be okay eventually, and in the long run their hurt and deprivation will not be remembered by them.
Armstrong does not for one second back away from fully presenting in "Sounder" the real horrors that this African-American family living in the mountains must face.
The power of this story is breathtakingly, and the writing of it is starkly real.
I remember reading this when I was maybe 8 or 9, and of being completely inconsolable afterwards.
I have an overactive empathy gene, I think, so certain books affect me far more that I would like to be affected.
Thankfully, this time around, I was able to read through this without going through a box of Kleenex during and a period of depression afterwards.
Sounder is a story that deals with loyalty and loss, as well as courage and perseverance in the face of racism and hatred and meanness.
I love this book, and I am glad that I was able to experience it again as an adult.
I read this on a plane and I read it fast so that I wouldn't cry. Oh, it's so good. I don't know why I never read it in elementary school. I secretly have a tendency to avoid books that involve animals because I ALWAYS bawl. This was no exception. I LOVED the analogies between Sounder and the boy's father. I highly recommend this book.
I was on a Newbery kick and brought Sounder home from the library.
Well, as it turns out, Sounder is not the type of book you'd forget that you'd read!
Sounder and his master, the boy's father, suffer similarly disfiguring fates at the hands of the law, and both return home to endure, then die.
Rather than be selfish/cautious/reluctant about the offer and make him stay home to help earn a living in his father's jailed absence, she rejoiced.
How blessed by God I am to live how and where I do!
I think this was one of the last books I read aloud to my family. I remember all of us lying on the bed while I read a chapter or two a night. I remember trying to read as I cried.
Story is something kids might like, so we can't have any of that.
I guess it means that the voters are not perfect in choosing books that will bore young readers and put them off of reading.
But there are also many good books out there that are also enjoyable, and if kids find good books that they like to read, who knows, maybe they would read more.
But my guess is that that won't happen so long as everyone seems to agree that these Newberry books are what kids "should" be reading.
Set probably some time in the ‘30s, this book centers on an unnamed black boy who must grow up fast after his poor, sharecropper father is arrested for stealing a ham for his hungry family.
I suppose so, despite the bleakness and injustice that saturates the story.
I read this book as a child, and though much of his poetic prose and historical import must have gone over my head, I remember being very moved by the cruelties the boy and dog endured.
However, this is definitely also a story that adults not only can by edified by, they ought to.[read twice]
A childhood favorites...
An exquisitely told tale - simple in execution and profound in thought, one that stays in your mind and heart long after you have finished it.
There is a beauty in the simplicity of the author's writing which imparts a great deal of meaning in a minimum of words.
I never thought a book in which the characters have no names could be so powerful, yet even though I didn't know what they were called and very little of what they looked like, the author made me really care about them.
All of the main characters, the boy, his mother, his father, and Sounder, all showed a great deal of determination in the face of adversity.
Sounder was a good dog and was good friends with the boy who owned him but (view spoiler)[ I'm pretty sure I remember Sounder dying near the end at the hand of some really mean man, poor doggy.
(hide spoiler)] Also, if I recall correctly, the story is set during a time period when racism was pretty rampant, and I think I remember some of that racism being aimed at the boy you see on the cover, so that's something to be aware of.
*Note: This book really has a 1.5 star rating!!!I've got to be honest...I know this book is a classic, but it did absolutely nothing for me.
I have read so many other books that do a much better job of evoking sympathy over the racism that African-Americans faced in the Post-Bellum South.
Although this novel presents literacy in a positive light and claims that an education is the key to securing a better future, this novel just does not have enough stuff going for it.
Another re-read of a childhood favorite. I was immediately struck by the excellent writing. And then I was amazed at how differently it reads now. As a child, it was a story about a boy and a dog. As an adult, it's about the racist treatment of poor black sharecroppers in the South. Regardless - it was a great read then and it's a great read now.
My heart always hurts when I read about days long ago and how the world treated people of a different skin color. I'm not sure it isn't so much different today in some parts of our world. It saddens me.....
7th grade. Wish I'd read this with a little more appreciation but at that age I know I hadn't been exposed to much. I do remember liking this. No rating--read too long ago.
Newbery Medal Winner--1970I read this book when I was little, but I didn't remember much about it other than that the characters didn't have names (except Sounder, of course), and that I didn't enjoy it that much. I have a little more appreciation for the subtle narration and the tough subject matter as an adult, but I still didn't love it. Reading the descriptions of Sounder after he is shot is tough, and after the horror in the beginning of the story, things are pretty slow-moving and uninteresting.
I enjoyed reading this book however it is definitely not one of my favorites.
The little boy told his story throughout the whole book.
He helped support his family with his father and dog (Sounder).
Until something went wrong and his father and dog were no longer around for a while.
Sounder soon comes back but is very hurt.
Then the boy eventually meets a teacher from a school in a far away town and is given the opportunity to learn to read.
His father later on eventually comes back home but soon the family is yet again broken up.
Sounder is 80 pages in length with 33 lines of 12 point text.
The story has many complex sentences.
Armstrong's Sounder is a Newbery Award winner and an excellent book.
The story is very, very sad and sort of a hard knock life tale.
If I decided to choose this book to lead a unit, I would focus on the emotional aspects of the boy, his growth and the morality of the book.
Content Area: Language Arts/Social StudiesLesson Plan: I would use this book as a way to discuss fairness in reality and to show and discuss morality.
Sounder is the beloved dog of a young boy and his father.
The boy's family is African American and lives in the South.
His father is taken to prison for stealing a ham for his hungry family to eat.
When Sounder returns half of his face is missing and he can only use three of his legs.
The boy grows older and spends his free time searching for his dad at work camps.
During his search he comes across a teacher and starts to go to school.
Finally his dad comes home but dies shortly thereafter.The ending is lovely.Won the Newbery in 1970.
One of my favorite Newbery books.
A story I want every child, every adult to read.
A father (no proper nouns are ever used except for the name of the dog, Sounder) and his family are hungry.
The weather makes hunting impossible.
The father makes a decision to steal a ham for his children.
When the men come to take the father to jail, they take a shot at Sounder and Sounder disappears.
The father is sent to jail and then to work on a chain gang.
For much of the book, the fate of neither Sounder nor the father is clear.
*listened to the audio book*This was quite an enjoyable read, sad but enjoyable. It was very beautifully written and the man reading it was perfect for it.
For me it was a very fast read of a thought provoking story. I hope my students enjoy it as much as I did.
Books that made me cry, here I come!
So when people read something like this and wonder if children are up to it or can they possibly understand what this book is really about - I would say yes.
When I set this crazy goal to read all of the Newbery winners I really had no idea what I was getting into.
That there is no way to hold up one book every year and say 'this is it'.
So many books speak to so many people in different ways.
Because now we are picking that book for people that none of us are anymore.
A boy and his dog seek solace in one another during the absense of their father/master. Set in the Deep South, the story covers racism, injustice and futility. The story doesn’t cover many events yet the few that do are powerful enough to make a strong and lasting point. Some of the situations make you shake your head at the unnecessary nastiness towards people who deserve better. I would recommend this to anyone who likes soft stories about hardship and perseverance.
I highly recommend this book to everyone. The writing immediately dropped me into the main characters experience. (view spoiler)[ The main character felt murderous rage and pictured his enemies dying violently. It feels shocking for a children's book, but I loved that the author wrote a child's feelings and perspective so honestly. I don't think that part of a book would be hard for a kid to read. I think the loss the main character experiences would be hard. (hide spoiler)] What an excellent bo
I highly recommend this book to everyone. The writing immediately dropped me into the main characters experience. (view spoiler)[ The main character felt murderous rage and pictured his enemies dying violently. It feels shocking for a children's book, but I loved that the author wrote a child's feelings and perspective so honestly. I don't think that part of a book would be hard for a kid to read. I think the loss the main character experiences would be hard.  (hide spoiler)] What an excellent book.
I enjoyed this book and the lesson it taught.
