https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/468259.The_Spook_Legion
He brought his hands up to his head. Then he discovered something, something so uncanny that he distinctly felt his eyes squeeze out of their sockets and a parade of cold chills travel his spine. He shook his arms to be sure. He even touched his own nose. “Blazes!” he gurgled aloud. “I just ain’t!”Monk had found himself to be invisible. This is a classic Doc Savage adventure and while I probably would not include it in my top 10, it still offers plenty of action, cool gadgets, and pulp-era hiji
I love it when a Doc adventure contains scientific approaches to what appears to be supernatural events (which often occurs in a Lester Dent penned story such as this one).
Nevertheless, when Doc and Monk undertake the procedure and are running about fully naked (clothes don’t make the change) throughout much of the novel, you can’t help but grin.The Spook Legion is counted as number 16 in the Bantam paperback versions but was actually the 26th in publication order.
All in all, another fun Doc Savage adventure.
Read this Doc adventure in the 70s
The first Doc Savage story appeared in 1933 and the series ran in pulp and later digest format into 1949.
The characterizations were far richer than was common for the pulps; his five associates and their sometimes-auxiliary, Doc's cousin Pat, and the pets Chemistry and Habeas Corpus, all had very distinctive characteristics and their byplay was frequently more entertaining that the current adventure-of-the-month.
The settings were also fascinating: Doc's Fortress of Solitude, the Hidalgo Trading Company (which served as a front for his armada of vehicles), and especially the mysterious 86th floor headquarters all became familiar haunts to the reader, and the far-flung adventures took the intrepid band to exotic and richly-described locations all over the world.
The Doc Savage books have always been my favorite entertainments...
Una avvincente avventura che vede protagonista l'eroe pulp Doc Savage, l'uomo di bronzo, un superuom
Out of the 16 Bantam Doc Savage series novels I've read so far, this was a chore to get through.
I thought for sure someone other than Lester Dent had written it because it seemed poorly written.
The prose seemed stilted and just didn't flow the way the other novels did.
The novel started with Doc, Ham, and Monk and never even mentioned the other three members of the gang until half way through, and then just in passing that they were busy elsewhere.
I lost interest part way through and that's why it took me almost two weeks to read a 122 page novel.
Of all the pulp era heroes few stand out above the crowd, Doc Savage is one of these. With his 5 aides and cousin he adventures across the world. Fighting weird menaces, master criminals and evil scientists Doc and the Fab 5 never let you down for a great read. These stories have all you need; fast paced action, weird mystery, and some humor as the aides spat with each other. My highest recommendation.
It was a fun story. I enjoyed the '30s version of science throughout, and it was nice to see an invention that even Doc couldn't duplicate. I was disappointed that the whole crew wasn't on hand though - Monk and Ham are, seemingly, more equal than the others.
This was the book that started it all! Introduced me to Doc and I've been reading the adventures ever since.
Solid entry in the series with Doc going up against an invisible gang of criminals. Well-executed.
I loved these books when I was a kid. They are exactly as I remember them, a quick enjoyable read.
I must admit an affection for these books much like my affection for T-shirts. I shall be collecting them all, but I doubt I will read them all. At least not soon.
possibly read in the spring of 1967
The spook legion was a fun read. I really like the old pulp stories.
