https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/112725.Hollywood_Wives
Nobody is allowed to failwithin a two-mile radius of the Beverly Hills Hotel.  Am I the only one who's never heard of Jackie Collins? Apparently so. Thank you for showing me the error of my ways, Goodreads. As I aim to become a Hollywood wife someday, I instantly knew I simply had to read this book.  In all seriousness though, this was a fun book. Nothing profound – but just what I needed at this moment.   And there are murders, too.  No, I've never heard of the TV mini-series, either. Apparen
Nobody is allowed to failwithin a two-mile radius of the Beverly Hills Hotel.
Am I the only one who's never heard of Jackie Collins?
Apparently so.
Thank you for showing me the error of my ways, Goodreads.
As I aim to become a Hollywood wife someday, I instantly knew I simply had to read this book.
In all seriousness though, this was a fun book.
Nothing profound – but just what I needed at this moment.
And there are murders, too.
No, I've never heard of the TV mini-series, either.
Apparently I'm from another planet.
See that man at the far left of the picture?
I actually wrote a book report about this in 10th grade. It didn't seem weird to me at the time and my English teacher didn't say anything about it, but I have to wonder what I was smoking to think this was the sort of book I should write a book report on.
Lovely series! entertaining,bitchiness on alert,rawness of writing about in your face characters,lots of sex plus it's very well written..recommend to all (paperback!)
She is a good break from the serious drama and mystery type books that I like to read.
This book is very entertaining and it delves into the lives of the famous, rich and exotic type of people.
This book is about the lives of the wives behind the famous men in Hollywood.
What else can I say about this book except the fact that I liked reading about the problems that befall the rich and famous.
Jackie Collins is one of my favorite writers when I want to take a break from more of my serious reading.
:PHowever, good writing is not the point of a Jackie Collins novel, just in case that should be news to anyone.Until I read more of her books (this is my first), I won't know if HW is the norm or the exception.
I got bored of them and bored with his non-career, and totally bored with their baby.I'll definitely read more Jackie, and I can totes see the appeal, but there's a bit of metaphorical sag on the old girl's glitzy fuckfest that needed some Beverly Hills lipo big time.
Hollywood Wives , written by Jackie Collins, was the sixth book I read in my Summer of Guilty Pleasure reads.
Wealthy people can seem so much better, so much worthier, especially when you’re watching them while lying on a shag carpet.Now that I’m older, my infatuation with celebrities has diminished and it’s hard to empathize with wealthy people, which doesn’t always make them good book characters, even when you throw a serial killer into the mix – as Collins does.
In the end, genre books like  Hollywood Wives  – and  50 Shades  – seem to be more about filling a void in readers than delivering a story.
Good series! light and easy storyline (paperback!)
A classic. Here's a little detail account of how I got to read it: http://sleaze-factor.blogspot.ca/2012...
For some reason, this book was not really on my radar until it got chosen by my trashy book club.
It's so trashy that, while I wonder how much of it is based in reality, I sort of don't even want to know.
But it's tough to get into the characters because most of them can't go more than 4-6 hours without sex, which just gets repetitive after a few hundred pages.
I mean, the characters are already trying to produce a movie together - it's a plot that works.
Sometimes I like to read crap.If memory serves, this was particularly stupendous crap.
of course i read this at a very young age. Trying very hard to know what is on with Hollywood living. Jakie has many novels. Read one you read all seriously... laden with glam glitters and sex definitely.
Really two and a half stars. Classic 80's Hollywood trash novel. An amusing read, if you're in the right mood. The plot bogs down a bit toward the end of the first half, but the second half really takes off. It's mainly about a hot movie that everyone in Hollywood wants to be a part of. There's also a murder sub-plot that becomes connected with the rest of the story in the second half. It's pretty much what you'd expect: a quick, mindless, entertaining read.Read for the June group read at Classic Trash: https://www.goodreads.com/topic/group...
This is not intellectually stimulating material, but sometimes I like a good quick rollercoaster ride of a dirty novel.
This one is definitely dirty, and follows some very dynamic characters through all kinds of troubling situations.
One line stuck with me and I actually added it to my mantra list...
"This is your life, Piper Silverthorne, can you hack it?" Obviously the name was different (Buddy Hudson), but when I feel particularly challenged or WHATEVER I say that and it makes me smile and soldier on-- such a ridiculous place to find inspiration, a Jackie Collins novel, but you never know what life will hand you.
Thought I would give myself a break from the old classics and try some classic trash and this book got me hooked. I absolutely love Jackie Collins. She's fun and easy to read and I've happened to get a couple of friends reading her works too. God bless Jackie Collins!
This book is exactly what you'd expect it to be....trash, utter trash; but that doesn't suggest that it wasn't entertaining, because it was. If you'd pick up any random tabloid and have it novel-sized, you'd get Hollywood Wives. This book is filled with everything you can imagine that is delicioulsy scandelous, and I loved every trashy page of it!
Now you might expect just as I did that this would be like reading a soap opera. And it turns out to be pretty much that. I'm sure that while there are advantages to living and socializing in the movie capital of the world, there are equally as many disadvantages, not to mention the gossip! I am reading this and Hollywood Husbands at the same time just to compare notes.
it was good, then dragged, and then raced to the end. i love starting my new year with the inimitable Jackie Collins
I remember when I read this - way back when I was younger- that I didn’t care for it much. She has written much better.
This book was written in 1983 (my birth year), and it's shocking how much changed between this one and the book before it, "The Valley of the Dolls." In "Valley" and "The Best of Everything," sex was minimal.
When you read current chic lit by someone like Nora Roberts (my favorite of those authors, Danielle Steele can stick it), the scenes are well-thought out and pretty erotic.
This jumped me straight into the 1980s -- I think Nora Ephron was supposed to be my '70s book, which may be part of the reason it seems so jarring, because I didn't ease myself into it after "Dolls."
Her other novels haven't worked for me, at least the four or five others I've tried to read, but this one pushes all my buttons.Way back in the Eighties I was writing my own "high concept" Hollywood type novel; HOLLYWOOD WIVES was on my research reading list (monkey see, monkey do).
The wives are the real stars of this novel, but the hero, Ross, a former superstar actor who can no longer land any kind of decent role, and who fails all through this novel, finally succeeds because of Bad Publicity!I'm hoping Bad Publicity will save me too!@hg47
Something is funky with the way this book is going on my shelf.
I have read the original Hollywood Wives, not the New Generation.
As I read it though, it was so bizarre to me how it seemed to jump from unrelated story to unrelated story.
Of course, the characters' lives began to intertwine, but there was still a bizarre outlier...until it all came crashing together at the end.
Plus, I can imagine a lot of the crap that goes on in this book actually happening in Hollywood today...so I can't wait to read the New Generation!
Hollywood Wives is not what I expected, which was a campy romp full of glitz, glamour, and sex.
There was plenty of that, but also something darker, and not particularly campy.
I was pleasantly surprised to find it was not a romance novel, nor an 80's version of Real Housewives.
Think more pulp fiction.
It doesn't celebrate or laud the vapid, sordid, and macabre; instead, Collins invites you to root for the utter destruction and humiliation of her protagonists.
They are so self-serving and vain, I couldn't be bothered to root for them.
They aren't even anti-heroes.
Loving, spending & succeeding –no one does it better than the Hollywood Wives.Wow Jachie Collins you have done it again. Great Novel. -Glamorous, beautiful & demanding –When life is this fast, there are no guarantees. Yes and also don’t ever forget- Status is everything too. This novel is a scorching blockbuster that exposes the glittering bitchery of Beverly Hills –before racing to a chilling & unexpected climax.
I read this book during summer when I was younger (so much!! - I was in elementary school. 6th grade?).And I was glued to it - it was completely different from all previous reads and the writing style was marvelous (even in translation).Ah, I want to read it again sometime :)
This book and I have a love/hate relationship, I loved the book, Jackie Collins is wonderful, I hate that I only read it after my mother smacked me across the face with it!! LOL! I had the imprint Holl Wiv on my cheek for an hour!!!
Theres no denying it's complete trash and the author and her sister have made a lot of money somehow on not being particularly good at anything in particular, as French and Saunders woudl say 'Lucky Bitches'!. Still its cult status trash and you can't help getting a smile out of it, 3 stars!
Read it when I was too young to be reading it at all. Loved it!!!!!! It is so raw, vivid and really takes you into the decadence of the entertainment industry. And in some aspects-the reailty of the lifestyle breaks your heart too...
borrowed this interesting book from a friend...havent been able to return it back to her just yet...sorry farah...:)
My very first Jackie Collins book I stole from my mother when I was 16!
You know, for a trash classic, this could be better than it is. But the TV movie is priceless.
