https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/643792.Slan
How do I properly describe a novel that uses (incorrectly) atomic energy, but also addressing the fact that it was published in 1940?Well, it's been 76 years since it came out, and its and integral part of the Campbellian SF revolution that said that we can have great Science in Science Fiction, but of course our understanding of these things change as we learn more, so I'm perfectly willing to let a lot of that slide.
He writes space opera, which has some almost magical fixing & plenty of convenience to the plot, but it's fun.
It started out pretty well, but there was just so much going on by the end that none of it worked well.
Everything else was too convenient & magically solved to make the hero out to be wonderful, while much of his reasoning was ridiculous.This was an audio book in 6 files.
By the end of the third one, I was getting close to my limits.

1.5 to 2.0 stars. While certainly an important "classic" science fiction story and worth while for gaining an understanding of the evolution of the science ficiton novel featuring the "superhuman" I did not really enjoy the novel. I am glad I read it and it was in the neighborhood of okay, but can not recommend it.
When an author tries to justify a fantasy, all it does is cause the reader to question his own disbelief.This especially evident in Van Vogt's explanation for telepathy, where he drags out that old gernsbackian chestnut about the evolution of the Future Man. Van Vogt demonstrates ably that the chief difference between hard and soft sci fi is whether the author has the least grasp of the science he's attempting to predict.The use of evolution as 'magic plot fixer' is always laughable, and it's no wonder the layman has no conception of what the Theory of Evolution actually refers to (it has nothing to do with Nietzsche's 'Superman', and neither does eugenics).
I've read lots of classic SF, but now, at last, I've found the missing link between Isaac Asimov and E.E. Smith, the transition stage between thoughtful, character driven science fiction and the Atomic!
Van Vogt's prose is just far enough on the clunky side of pulp to make it jarring to modern ears, but the main thing that might hold a modern reader back from this book is that so many of the ideas Vogt introduces have since passed into the realm of cliche.
If you put the book in its historical context, it becomes clear how much of a debt Van Vogt is owed.Super-powered mutants fighting to protect a world that hates and fears them?
I can see from other reviews that not everybody enjoyed this, but I really enjoy Van Vogt, his stories tend to twist and turn and venture off into unexpected territory.
Dick (Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?).
Slan actually deals with a rather complicated theme, but in an almost simplistic fashion, the quick pace of the novel is testament to this.
I'd expect no less of a Science Fiction novel published in the 1940s.
There is a feverish quality to much of the Van Vogt stuff I've read, and perhaps that's why he's not everybody's cup of tea.
Meh. The book broached some interesting topics but didn't actually resolve anything about the complicated issues. It ended on somewhat of a cliffhanger, but I'm not interested enough to keep going.
I read a couple of books by this author way back in my youth and have no recollection what they were like.
This one came up a book club read so it was a good opportunity to revisit.
The main theme of this book is the prejudices towards a slightly different race of humans, a prejudice that goes in both direction incidentally.
There is some nostalgic hand wave science typical of the era, but other than that the book does not seem dated at all.
The numerous mentions of 'atomic power' were a surprise since this was written in 1940 when this science was in it's infancy.
Van Vogt sets up Kathleen Layton as a secondary protagonist very early in the story, then pages after she finally crosses paths with Cross, he fridges her!
The central “what if” here, “what if a strain of humanity involves that truly does have superior capabilities in some fashion?” is as pressing and interesting now as it was in 1940.Indeed, I think it’s somewhat silly that so much Golden Age SF, from van Vogt to Asimov to Heinlein, is social/soft SF, yet somehow that only becomes a problem when women start writing it.
I don't know how much revision there was or how much time elapsed between each version but to me it felt apparent at about the half-way point, where there's a break of several years.
I'd enjoyed the first half, with the young protagonist on the run and discovering the world and his powers and the history of his "race"; but where the first portion of the story had a lot of emotional interaction between the characters and you could empathize with "Jommy", the second half became cold and didactic.
I felt like Ayn Rand had taken over the book or something.
Засяга нетрадиционни за времето си теми като расизъм, психология на тълпата, еволюция, революция и дори се опитва да вкара, за съжаление неуспешно, силни женски образи.Джоми е слен – еволюирало човешко същество, преследвано и заплашвано от нормалните хора и себеподобните си – в един свят, деградирал до индустриалната епоха, забравил за електроника и атомна енергия.
Един единствен, може би последен от вида си, слен е предопределен да преобърне статуквото, с помощтта на познания наследени от родителите му (една забавна и много сбъркана употреба на атомна енергия).Много любим автор ми е Алфред ван Вогт и няма как да не съм пристрастен.
It won Retro-Hugo for 1941 that can be an indicator of its importance for the SF genre.The novel is short, easy to read and is definitely the product of its time, with for example women thinking chiefly about romance and being out of political power, the prerogative of men.
He is the Slan, a homo superior, whom homo sapiens hunt down mercilessly, for Slans are both intellectually and physically better than ordinary men.
Now it can be seen as a story of an oppressed minority (and maybe influenced by chiefly European, but actually global, anti-Semitism of the time) and was replayed many times after, from X-Men to Darwin's Radio.
I'm forgoing my usual format because I don't have a lot to say on this book. I've long since known that most classic sci-fi just isn't for me, and sadly this one was no different. I found this book had a few interesting ideas, but little else to hold my interest. I felt the characters were very thin and uninteresting and the plot seemed disjointed at times. Overall, just not really my type of story.
I see the legacy of Slan in many books and films I've read, and the main fear of the humans, being superseded by a genetically engineered race, the Slan, is one that lurches ever closer to our reality, now.The main thing I dislike about the book is the dialogue.
Too often even some of the humans sound all too much like Star Trek's Data imitating Spock.
This is full of Van Vogt's far fetched notions and mind bending plot developments that one will have come to expect if one has read any of his other works.My main disappointment was the suddenness of the ending which left the story feeling unfinished.
There being no proper sequel one can only imagine where he might have gone with the story had he ever tried to conclude it.
I know there was an unfinished draft for a sequel that was later developed by his widow and Kevin J.
[written in my book lover's journal; possibly a couple months after reading it]Aghast that people acclaim Van Vogt at all, in any way, even a little bit.
This opinion of sentient beings annoys me more than any other i can think of presently.[10 years later: i wish i'd never wasted the hours on this book, and wish i could recoup the minutes it took to write (originally) and type (now) these comments about it...but if just ONE person decides NOT to read this book because of my review, then i've done good by the world.
It’s high time that Van Vogt’s work was reassessed and I’m surprised that this novel at least has not been republished by one of the companies who tend to reprint classic works of SF.‘Slan’ is the story of Jommy Cross, one of a race of telepathic superhumans – recognisable only by the tendrils on their foreheads - living in hiding within human society, a race which ordinary humans seem determined to exterminate.
Take a drink every time the word Slan is used to make this book enjoyable. Also, Jommy is a dumb name.
I’m sure that this book was revolutionary in its day, but today it is just dated, and the writing style leaves a lot to be desired. The author has to exposit the entire wrap up in the last few pages which I always dislike.
In my current born-again-newbie's excursion through the world of near-forgotten classic pulp sci-fi (conducted wholly in disreputable second hand bookshops) I've been applying two criteria to my book selection: 1) Is the cover sexy?, and 2) Is the title sexy?
My edition of Slan ticked both boxes - the spaceship had sexiness all over it (although, halfway through the book I feared I'd been conned and there was no actual spaceship in the story - mercifully not the case), and the weirdo simplicity of the title had me very intrigued.
Slan is a relentless read; the action is constant and ever escalating, as are poor Jommy and Kathleen's respective situations of peril.
Today I finished Slan by A.E.van Vogt and hated it.
I don't believe there will be a profusion of paper newspapers then.) [mild spoilers:] One of the mutants says their kind is anti-violence, anti-murder, etc.
in between talking about all the people he killed to protect his secret.
I can see taking action to protect yourself but would be less of a hypocrite about it.In the end, I rather hoped the coming conflict killed everyone.
Anderson's completion of van Vogt's sequel, Slan Hunter, at the end, and I felt that it's more of the same.
Ever wonder what the term forced means? "They're following us Jommy," her brain telegraphed, "they're not sure, but they suspect, we've risked once too often coming into the capitol. Though I did hope that this time I could show you the old Slan way of getting into the catacombs where your Father's secret is hidden." People just don't speak this way, but apparently Slan live only to make it from one plot point to another, info-dumping things everyone in their culture already knows, like some gal
Though I did hope that this time I could show you the old Slan way of getting into the catacombs where your Father's secret is hidden." People just don't speak this way, but apparently Slan live only to make it from one plot point to another, info-dumping things everyone in their culture already knows, like some galactic diarrhea of the telepathic waves.Sometimes I take one of these old classics for the team, so I can write terrible, yet funny reviews, but Not in Solitude was genius compared to this low hanging fruit.Somewhere there is a giant living computer recording all this, and sometime in Earth's future, someone will experience genuine Galactic Diarrhea of the Telepathic Waves.
As I say in my Goodreads "about me" section, this was the very first science fiction novel that I ever read (thanks to a teacher).
It made a strong impact on me as I was in high school and I hadn't read an adult novel before.
I still recall the emotional intensity that follows the main character and there was a theme of prejudice and subjugation running through it as humanity breaks down into humans and genetically created Slans (some with tendrils and some without).
I intend on acquiring a copy one of these days and re-reading it to see how I now feel about it after all these years but this novel helped create a reader.
Okay it was written for the market to get published in in a SF magazine in the 1940s. Some declare it a masterpiece or some ground breaking work. I feel it gets to much credit for the inspiration of the mutant X-men, while I think the concept goes back to Homer. How is not Achilles not the first X-Man ? I am sure others can argue the concept is even more ancient. Still it was short, the tale progressed at break neck speed and the last few pages explained all. I think Vogt had a bad Granny.
Very interesting, especially given when it was written. Fast paced entertaining read. Wanted more by the end.
We've come a long way since 1940I remember reading and enjoying this novel in my early teens.
JWC was fascinated by "psi" and other pseudo science and encouraged his stable of writers, including Van Vogt, Asimov, Heinlein, Sturgeon, Arthur C.
to write speculative fiction about it.I suspect this tale was born from that encouragement.
So I give it three stars from the point of view of someone who has been reading and enjoying Science Fiction since age 11, around 1960 or so.
anni dopo” sarebbe anche potuto essere un bel romanzo.Poi a un certo punto non si capisce più niente, all'incirca quando Cross cattura Corliss, un po' prima forse.
Un paio di capitoli di buio totale, scritti da schifo, confusionari al massimo, fino ad arrivare a un finale che oscilla tra il banale e il tirato via.
Ecco come sprecare una buona idea!Non riesco a capire se il problema sia io o i romanzi di fantascienza che leggo: dei personaggi così piatti e delle storie così scialbe come ho trovato nei romanzi di fantascienza non le ho trovate da nessuna parte.
I'd heard some things that made me a bit hesitant to read this but overall I enjoyed the pace. On the recording I did find the narrator didn't pause long enough to give you an audible clue of time passing so I was often confused by some sentences until I figured out what happened. (view spoiler)[The ending came as a surprise and wrapped things up nicely, however I did have a sense of a cliff hanger. I do know there's a second book to this series and assume this is why. (hide spoiler)]
