https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/144918.Three_Exemplary_Novels
(Buradan sonrası kitap özeti gibidir...)İlk öykü çocuğu olmayan bir kadın ve kocası Don Juan ile ilgili.
Don Juan ise çok yakışıklı, alımlı bir erkek.
Herkes peşinde ancak o karısını çok seviyor.
Kocasına bir çocuk vermek istiyor ama olmuyor.
Ve çocuk olur olmaz eski karısına koşuyor.Vel hasılı kelam işler karışıyor.İkinci öykü ise yine bir kar-koca hikayesi.
Bir çocuğu daha var Marki'nin ancak o da kız.
Ve kızının erkek çocuk sahibi olduğunu öğrenir öğrenmez de hayata gözlerini huzur içinde yumuyor.Ancak çok kısa bir sure sonra anne de ölüyor.
Onu kıskanıyor ve işler yine karışıyor.Son öykü de yine karı koca ve çocuk arasında geçiyor.
I had never heard of this collection of three short stories or the author before searching for great Spanish literature to prepare for an upcoming trip there.
de Unamuro's stories are tight studies in interpersonal relationships, especially focusing on power dynamics.
There is no fluff, no descriptions of anything outside of the main characters' interactions & thoughts.
While this collection was published in 1930, the intense focus on only the character dynamics lends a timeless feel to them.
The tight writing intensifies the passions and leaves the reader feeling as tense and claustrophobic as the characters are.
Öyküleri genel olarak karanlık buldum. 3 hikayeyi de açıkçası sevdim. Önsöz konusunda emin değilim. İş Kültür'ün çevirisi çok iyiydi bu arada.
Tres novelas apasionantes. Cuando más leo de Unamuno más me gusta su estilo.
three exemplary novels, so titled with a nod to cervantes, is miguel de unamuno's best known fiction, but is actually comprised of two novellas and a short dramatic piece.
perhaps most well known for his non-fiction work, the tragic sense of life, unamuno wrote prolifically about the struggles between reason and faith.
devoted to his pursuits, unamuno even learned danish in order to read kierkegaard in its original form, and his works are often credited with being forerunners of existentialism.three exemplary novels is written in spare yet engaging prose.
in reading this book, one can easily see unamuno's influence on garcía lorca's own works.
"Bütün mutlu aileler birbirine benzer; her mutsuz aileninse kendine özgü bir mutsuzluğu vardır."- Tolstoy.En sevdiğim kitaplardan olan Sis , Abel Sánchez ve Tula Teyze kitaplarının yazarı Miguel de Unamuno; bu kitabında da dağ taş, fiziksel görünüm tasvir etmeden doğrudan insan ilişkilerine ve karakterlerin duygu durumlarına odaklanıyor ve kendisini bir çırpıda okutmayı başarıyor. 20.yüzyılın en büyük ilişki uzmanı ve sürükleyicilerinden olan bu adam 21.yüzyılda yaşasa kesinlikle Türk dizisi senaristi olurdu ve ben onu soluksuz izlerdim. - Murat G.ps: Bu kitapta en sevdiğim hikaye ise " Tam bir erkek" adlı son hikaye. Bir acımasızlığım olsa adını Alejandro koyardım. Ale-ale-jandro, Ale-ale-jandro..(Temsili)
Son öykü hariç beğenmedim, beğenemedim. Önsözde vadettiği hiçbir şeyi yansıtamamış, ilk iki öykü ise oldukça yavan. Sanki yazmış olmak için yazılmış gibiydi.
I hope I offend no one when I say they remind me of those televised Novelas I sometimes catch when I want to exercise my foreign languages: they are wild, over the top, and about 1/3rd of the time incredible and 1/3rd of the time all-too credible knowing how crazy people are.
Several years ago, while editing a manuscript by a Latino writer who was writing in English, I actually told him, "you can get away with extremes in Spanish that you just cannot do in English without people making fun of you." So what is accepted in one language in terms of tone and emotion is not in others.
Son hikayeyi sevdim ama digerleri vasat.
Very minimalist, and no doubt highly influenced by the unrest in Spain leading up to the Civil War--not that these are political tales in any way; they are stories of families struggling with tradition and their reputation.
But as the struggles in Spain seemed to me related less to political ends and more toward individual values, stories of family discord might be as good a way to portray the larger disagreements as any.A side note--Three Exemplary Novels was published in 1920, a decade-and-a-half before the Civil War, but I couldn't help thinking of the troubles that were still to come while reading these stories.
Elegantly simple in language, these three novels probe the elemental forces of human personality. In "Two Mothers" the demonic will of a woman runs amok in a whirlwind of maternal power, while in "The Marquis of Lumbria" another unforgettable heroine steers a violent course through the dense sea of tradition. By contrast, "Nothing Less Than a Man" focuses on a Nietzschean hero, a man who embodies human will deprived of spiritual strength.
Three powerful little novellas about love and obsession. This book sat on my shelves for nearly 40 years without ever being opened. Now I look to see more of the author’s books in English that I might like … and there are none. I feel cheated.
*The Marquis of Lumbria *Two Mothers*Nothing Less Than a Man
Özellikle son öykü muhteşemdi. Sıra dışı bir yazar.
Alejandro, Alejandro!

Not (in fact) three novels but short stories. Each one dealing with issues of interpersonal power featuring three very different, but all very strong personalities. Most readers will find these stories very odd, and the expressions of the relationships anything but true to life, which is (I believe) Unamuno's point.
claustrophobic & unsettling stories about interpersonal power struggles. the third one seemed more contemporary than the first two in the way it depicted personalities, & i found it particularly engrossing.
En son öykü ve ikinci öykü etkiledi. Aile, kadın, erkek ilişkileri değişik bir açıdan aktarılmış.
I like how interconnected the stories were.
"No Less Than a Man" was the only thing that kept this from two stars. Meh for the other two
