https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/63720.The_Fifth_Elephant
The ability for someone to leave multiple reviews of a book that they've read at multiple points in their life.I'd like to talk about my recent thoughts on this book, but I don't want to erase my old review or change the date on it.
Think how nice it would be to look back on your reading history and see how your attitudes have changed over the course of your life.
What about you guys?*****There's worse ways to start the year than reading some Pratchett.
Probably not on the level of Pratchett's best (Monstrous Regiment, Thud, Wee free Men) but still a great book.
The characters truly grow through each of the books and I think that having read the previous in the series will increase your enjoyment of this one.Quick Summary: A strange theft and murder occur in Ankh-Morpork, and just as the Watch is about to investigate, The Patrician sends Vimes and his wife off to Uberwald to attend the coronation of the new Dwarfish Low King as ambassadors.
While street hardened Vimes has to start learning about politicking, Angua disappears… and Carrot decides to go after her, unfortunately her trail leads to Uberwald, land of vampires, werewolves, and Dwarves who rarely come to the surface.
In this edition, Pratchett has the Duke of Ankh go to Uberwald on a diplomatic mission for which Vimes is uniquely qualified.Pratchett had previously visited the vampires in Uberwald in the 23rd Discworld book, 1998’s Carpe Jugulum.
One aspect of this book that was an unusual surprise was the idea of Ankh-Morpork as a kind of pluralistic, multi-cultural haven, almost an ugly America; but more hospitable in some respects than the old country.Not as funny as some other Discworld novels, but complete with Pratchett’s inimitable style and humor, this is still very enjoyable.
With Sam Vimes on his way to the coronation in Uberwald, that leaves Fred Colon as Acting Captain of the Watch.
They learn to follow their own line of thought while at the same time listening to what their wives say.
And the listening is important , because at any time they could be challenged and must be ready to quote the last sentence in full.
I use this technique when my husband's going on and on about his day at work, and believe me, it's a lifesaver!
I did groan a little when I learnt that Vimes would yet again be leaving Ankh-Morpork for a distant land like in the last novel, but this time it proved to be an inspired choice and worked really well adding in some new fresh characters and adding extra layers to a few we already know.
There was a much darker feel to this book than I’ve previously seen in the Discworld novels (even the ones with Death which could become quite morbid if you think about it) but Terry Pratchett has enough humour in his locker to add some light relief along the way to keep things on this side of crazy batshit.
And Vetinari never did naything without a reason.”So His Grace, His Excellency, The Duke of Ankh; Commander Sir Samuel Vimes  (aka my chosen Literary Husband) is going to the dangerous, faraway country of Überwald, where there is no Law, only The Lore, as Ambassador of Ankh-Morpork.
He is of course eager (ahem) and ready to "hand round the cucumber sandwiches like anything" and to get the hang of (or is just to hang) diplomacy, but his policeman's nose and insticts tell him that something is rotten in the state of Überwald and it is not the hot baths.
The Fifth Elephant is the fifth book in the Watch subseries of Discworld.
With this book however, I wasn’t as entertained by it as I had been by the last couple.
There were also a lot of distractions during the bulk of the time I spent reading it.As with the last couple of Watch books, this is one of the more plot-driven Discworld books.
While the other characters all had their parts to play, Vimes had the largest role and maybe that’s part of the reason I didn’t enjoy it as much.
I usually think the other characters in this subseries are more entertaining.So, all in all, I found this book to be pretty average.
Terry Pratchett has a way with words that paints a vivid picture in the readers mind, even though I didn't find this book as funny as the others it is still a brilliant incredible story.
I really really enjoyed reading this book.
The words that Terry Pratchett uses are so brilliant and powerful that they can make you feel like you are there, make you picture the Discworld like it is actually a real place and that all the people features are real too.
2010 October 3I'd have given him five stars for the riff on The Cherry Orchard alone. Vampires, werewolves, politics, fat mining. Pratchett manages to write a really fun book that is also a mystery as well as a keen satire on emigrants and the old country.Personal copy2014 September 232018 February
“Well, he thought, so this is diplomacy. It's lying, only for a better class of people.” "It was funny how people were people everywhere you went, even if the people concerned weren’t the people the people who made up the phrase 'people are people everywhere' had traditionally thought of as people." I keep going back and forth over whether this should get the fifth star, and that back and forth is what's keeping it at four (for now), but this is my favorite of these books since Hogfather. I ver
I keep going back and forth over whether this should get the fifth star, and that back and forth is what's keeping it at four (for now), but this is my favorite of these books since Hogfather.
It didn't *quite* have the emotional oomph I like from these books in order to get the fifth star, but it was so much fun, and there was a little oomph, so .
Goodreads, give us half stars.We are going back to Uberwald in The Fifth Elephant, and this time Captain Samuel Vimes of the Ankh-Morpork City Watch is going with us.
May 2018: “This, milord, is my family's axe.
but is this not the nine hundred-year-old axe of my family?
And because it has changed gently over time, it is still a pretty good axe, y'know.
Pretty good.”Just like the Dwarf King's Axe, this is still the same book read by the same person, only, as the years go by, the person changes with every subsequent reading and appreciates the author's genius even more.
till next time.February 2016: Wolves never look back.Read the book again, after many years.
The book didn't get better, but I think I did.
Diplomacia v praxi a v Uberwalde :) Človek človeku vlkom. A pani Elániová (view spoiler)[konečne tehotná (hide spoiler)].Počas čítania tejto knihy zomrel Kantůrek (22. 3. 2018), dvorný Pratchettov prekladateľ. Shit happens, ale raz tam musí odísť každý.Goodreads výzva 2018:40. dočítaná kniha
Please allow me one quick soul-searching moment.
Before I was introduced to the awesomeness of Discworld…I was just an empty shell of a fanI haven’t picked up Discworld book for quite some time (last one I read was Jingo) so reading the Fifth Elephant kind of gave me the warm and fuzzy feeling of falling in love with Sir Terry Pratchett’s work all over again.
I think this book is the most action-packed volume in City Watch series yet.
There’s the motley crew of the Watch and a few new characters.
Otro libro de la saga de la guardia con el que he disfrutado enormemente.Lo que más me ha gustado: L
And while it isn’t the best book of the series, or the best watch book, or really all the memorable on its own for story alone; while it is none of these things it does seem to represent an important point in the Discworld journey.Ah but perhaps I get ahead of myself.
The world is growing connected, technology is taking over, and thousand year fights over who attacked who are no longer going to fly when looked at by the world’s eye.It is not that Pratchett hasn’t dealt with issues before within the Discworld series; but for the first time they seem to be tied to a larger story.
Another City Watch Story28 November 2016 There was a time that I loved the adventures of Constable Carrot, Captain Vimes, and Nobby Nobbs, but is seems as of late the stories are starting to become really, really dry. Okay, maybe there are other factors, but I really don't seem to be able to get into the Pratchet books any more, to the point that I am starting to find them quite boring. Sure, there are probably people out there that will crucify me because I have spoken blasphemy, but fortunatel
Another City Watch Story28 November 2016	There was a time that I loved the adventures of Constable Carrot, Captain Vimes, and Nobby Nobbs, but is seems as of late the stories are starting to become really, really dry.
Sure, Rincewind did at first annoy me but the character sort of started to grow on me to the point that the last book that I can remember I quite enjoyed (I believe it was  The Last Continent, but the one set in Discworld's version of China was also quite good).
It difficult not to treat these very last Discworld books as special treats to be savoured (after reading this i have 10 books left and only 3 in the City watch series). and the time felt right for a "terry pratchett moment".The Fifth Elephant is Diplomacy among werewolves, vampires and dwarfes (even dwarf ladies !), it's the City Watch going abroad and most of all its a Classic Discword novel with all the irony and quirky comments.
(The races to get home before sunset being a fun Uberwaldean hobby is just the cutest.)What struck me the most about rereading this book is that while it delivers a super fun and enjoyable plot with memorable characters, a really vivid setting, and a perfect lampooning of Gothic/horror stereotypes, Terry Pratchett's values are also interwoven throughout.
This book is about setting aside old and dangerous conservatism while still staying true to your cultural roots and traditions -- to the thing, and the whole of the thing.Plus, Uberwald is one of my favourite settings anywhere, and I'm super into werewolves so the fact that they're the main villains of the piece delights me.
This book has one of the scariest scenes I've read in a discworld book so far.
I was really afraid a particular character I care about would die.
Also in this book Igor and Vimes really have a shining role, so if you like them, this is definetly the book for you.
This feels like a very mature discworld book, in the sense that the story is very well-constructed and has some serious themes to it.
So, all in all, a good book in the overal Discworld series, one who would also maybe attrack non-discworld lovers because the story in itself is also very good.
Another fantastic installment.It was super great to see the world outside of Ankh Morpork and explore more of Discworld.
This one dealt specifically with the immigrant diaspora, belonging, cultural shifts and evolution.It's just super interesting to watch Sam Vines change, he'd made such a huge journey from being a drunk to being a wily politician.
The other characters have changed too, but not as much, and sometimes I do wish we would focus on them.I would love to read about Cheery's internal turmoil or Angua's pain.
But also it's amazing that we can see it from the little we see of it.Gosh, I love this series so much.
Lord Vetinari, the ruler of Ankh-Morpork, sends Vimes to Uberwald to represent the city during the coronation of the dwarfs’ new king.
A war looms.Nobody in Uberwald wants the Ankh-Morpork policeman Sam Vimes to stick his nose into foreign matters.
This is the first book of the series (at least among the ones I’ve read) where Igors are finally described in all their morbid glory.I won’t pretend it’s my favorite among the City Watch series, but the story grabs you from the first page.
It makes you keep reading until the last page.
The Commander of Ankh-Morpork’s Watch finds himself in a potential international incident with interspecies disputes and conspiracies mixed in with the fabulous riches of The Fifth Elephant mines in this installment of Terry Pratchett’s fantastic Discworld series.Uberwald is a mineral rich principality governed over by dwarfs, werewolves, and vampires in an uneasy peace with one another and amongst their own species then add to this mix Sam Vimes as ambassador from Ankh-Morpork to coronation of the new dwarf king.
Vimes’ diplomatic style and his natural detective instincts strain international, as well as interspecies, relations as the copper investigates a robbery and murder in Ankh-Morpork connected to events in Uberwald.
A quite superb entry from Pratchett's middle period, full of sharp observations, biting wit, stupid puns, excellent characterisation and development and a fantastic crime/espionage plot for our hero Sam Vimes to piece together.
As we approach what may well be the end of civilisation with devastating weapons being left in the hands of a greedy, self aggrandising, profiteering simpleton I can safely say that Sir Terry is better off out of it, but the world needs many, many more people with his outlook on life, and perhaps even that of Sam Vimes too, if as a species we're to stand any chance of surviving.
Not your usual City Watch novel, and Feet of Clay and Men at Arms were a little bit more enjoyable plot-wise, but it still was fun to read; especially when giving you backgrounds for Angua and Uberwald.PS Sam Vimes is still the best cop in fiction.
Series: Here are the Discworld books about the City Watch, in order:Guards!
It is set on Discworld in a neighboring country, and offers up cameos of a few City Watch characters, like Vimes and Angua the werewolfSpin-off cross-over books about City Modernization, featuring con-man turned hero, Moist Von Lipvig, and a few characters from the City Watch:  I recommend Going Postal which describes the invention and proliferation of postage stamps (loved it) and Making Money, depicting the creation of paper money to replace gold (also very good).
It features Moist Von Lipvig, the City Watch, and varied characters from across the larger Discworld series.
Vimes proves himself to be a pretty hard arsed and unstoppable action hero, with some brilliantly described, tense and occassionally gruesome scenes.If I have a criticism, its the same one I have for most of the Watch books: Angua.Angua is such a crap character, she has the potential to be awesome and powerful or at least interesting, and she's all set up to play a major role in this book, but in the end she does almost nothing and continues to come across as a whiner.
I don't think it's one of my favourites, because of the sort of general Uberwald unpleasantness that resonates throughout it (and the Colon as Captain subplot got tedious fast - the only saving grace was Vetinari reminding both Colon and Nobbs how Vimes would react).
Because I hadn't read this either.Anyway, the Angua/Carrot dynamic is still a bit problematic, mainly because of Carrot's personality and never-ending niceness.
It was pretty well done.I also really enjoyed Vimes and the dwarf king, Vimes and Cheery as investigative duo, Detritus as cultural attache, Detritus and his winter-level thinking, Detritus just in general (I love Detritus), and all of the Igors.
If you're a master of humour you can say a lot more and have people listen and consider than you can if your message is delivered with severity.
(Not to say that Pratchett can't be scathing or that there aren't occasional bursts of rage underneath his writing because there most definitely are.) Anyway the overall message of this seems to be 'you do you, and while you're at it extend a bit of understanding for that bloke over there who's doing the same thing'.
I really enjoyed Lady Sybil in this book and Carrott and Angua's relationship was brilliant - 90% of it unsaid which is how all the best dialogue works.
One can never accuse Terry Pratchett of needing a wordcount trim.
And Terry Pratchett certainly has grown and matured from his days of The colour of magic or even Guards!
The jokes are rarer and better set up, the problems for the characters feel realer, the world is just imbued with enough melancholy and wit to keep me hooked on and on.
For every weak book in this series one needs to remember that there are some like The Fifth Elephant worth discovering, enjoying and, most certainly, re-reading.
Great book...I recommend it honestly, for Terry Pratchett enthusiasts at least.
These are good stories, regardless of the fact that many of the characters are fantastic or supernatural creatures (including a talking dog).The main character of this book (Sam Vimes - featured in many of the Discworld novels) is on a diplomatic mission to meet leaders from the werewolf, vampire, and dwarf communities.
The plot is part mystery and part action-adventure, and along the way touches on many subjects (for example, there's a romantic triangle between a male human, a male wolf, and a female werewolf).This book, I think, would be a fine introduction to the whole series; there's enough backstory along the way to introduce the reader to the universe.
