https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22557520-after
Emily Brontë would be choking herself to death if she were alive.So, really, to those who believe this book is well written and Todd has a way with words, better to know this lovely quote belongs to Wuthering Heights.* * * * * * *You know what?FUCK THIS.Fuck the industry, fuck the media, fuck everything that promotes abusive behaviour as something romantic and appealing.
Especially due the fact that nowadays, most teens believe such behaviour is okay after reading so many books that romanticize manipulative, abusing bastards.
Is this the literature that will survive, the legacy we'll leave to future generations?
Im going to re-read After. I read the Fanfic and wasn't too impressed with it but I've heard from friends that the book is better so i'm giving it another go!
I read this book and it was great. I don't want to spoil anything, so the rest of this review is going to be invisible.
My main issue is how the story literally promotes an emotionally abusive relationship.
I've listed some signs of emotional abuse in that image above and this isn't just for the first book, but all three books (I don't know why I bother reading the other two, again, my fault).
And intentionally pissing your girlfriend off, calling her names, and making her cry, isn't respect.I would post some examples of Harry-- Hardin-- being completely hurtful to Tessa because she wants to help H̶a̶r̶r̶y̶ Hardin and the issues with his family, but I don't want to go back on Wattpad and give this woman anymore reads.
The plot is like the other 90% of the stories on wattpad involving good girls and bad boys, only it includes the infamous Harry Styles, which is probably the only reason why it has accumulated so many views.
If After gets published with ''made popular by Wattpad'' on its front cover, I will be very disappointed because the last thing I want to see is fiction like this representing a community filled with brilliant authors.This, however, was so poorly written that I'm having a hard time grasping how the editor is going to make it better.
Not only that, but the plot itself lacks any depth whatsoever: at least some of the similar stories I've read actually carried a message.
Decidí leer algunas páginas de este libro, porque no quería odiarlo sin fundamentos. Esto fue lo que encontré: –Pero ¿a ti que te pasa? Actúas como si no ocurriera nada, como si no nos hubiéramos peleado, como si no hubieras hecho nada. Estás mal de la cabeza, Hardin, loco de atar. Necesitas un manicomio, medicación y paredes acolchadas. ¿Me dices unas cosas horribles y luego re ofreces a llevarme? –No puedo con él. *Vuelve con él después de un poco de sexo* Hardin podría ponerse cualquier cosa
Si ambos admitimos lo que sentimos por el otro, ¿cambiará todo lo demás?
Se me ha escapado.Se me acerca con los brazos abiertos, pero yo me pego a la puerta.—Sí, siempre se te escapa, ¿verdad?No puedo evitar que los ojos se me llenen de lágrimas.
Se ha pasado muchometiendo a mi padre en esto, incluso para ser Hardin.
—empieza a decir, pero se calla cuando levanto una mano.«¿Qué hago aquí?» ¿Por qué sigo pensando que pondrá fin a la retahíla de insultos el tiempo suficiente para mantener una conversación de verdad conmigo?
Porque soy imbécil, por eso.
Y a partir de aquí, no dejará de pensar en él.Y es literal.Porque el libro va simplemente de eso, cada dos páginas aparece el nombre de Hardin, y es un tira y afloja de: “no me gusta lo odio me encanta voy a dejar de pensar en él cuando cuente tres:Uno...Dos...Dos y medio, Dos y tres cuartos…”, ¡sin ningún tipo de subtrama!¡Sólo va de eso!Pelea-Reconciliacón-SexoTe odio-Te amo-Vamos a hacerlo aquí mismo, en el suelo.Y sí, de fondo están los amigos, la compañera de habitación, típico relleno que sólo sirve para la típica escena en la que maquilla, peina y presta vestidos a la protagonista, los otros miembros de One Direction (por cierto, sólo localicé al rubio y al moreno, los otros, ni idea, como la autora profundiza tanto en las descripciones...), y todo el tema del novio, Noah.¿No he mencionado que Tessa tenía novio?Da igual, no importa, a Tessa no le importa, a nadie le importa.(view spoiler)[De hecho, durante toda la lectura, Tessa se encargará de usarlo de segundo plato, humillarlo y despreciarlo hasta dejarlo hecho un guiñapo.
So, Planeta va a publicar ESTO en español.PLANETA VA A PUBLICAR ESTO(!) EN ESPAÑOL.EN ESPAÑOL.ESTO.SÍ.*Se va a escribir un fanfic de cualquier libro/boy-band popular para ver si la publican algún día**suspira*... ¿A dónde iremos a parar?
I’m not a fan of Harry Styles or One Direction (haha this has since changed), but I honestly just wanted to read it so that I could form my own opinion of it and let you guys know how I felt about it.I want to start off by saying that this was a Harry Styles fanfiction on wattpad that received so many views that it got published.
Everyone has issues and he’s obviously trying to deal with those, but it’s obvious to anyone who reads this book that he’s trying so hard to change.
Don’t be embarrassed to read this book because of all of the hate it’s receiving.
After blurb reveal: With his tousled brown hair, cocky British accent, tattoos, and lip ring, Hardin is cute and different from what she’s used to.Hardin?
Seriously?
You couldn't be bothered to make it an entirely different name from Harry?He’ll call her beautiful, then insist he isn’t the one for her and disappear again and again.
Despite the reckless way he treats her, Tessa is compelled to dig deeper and find the real Hardin beneath all his lies.
He pushes her away again and again, yet every time she pushes back, he only pulls her in deeper.Tessa already has the perfect boyfriend.
Another fanfiction P2P. Except instead of using Twilight to establish a fan base, this idiot used British boybander Harry Styles. Now I'm not a fan of One Direction & Co in the slightest, but even I know how messed up this is. No one knows how this POS/After got out of control. And yea, it is a POS. While reading through the first chapter I was mentally editing it in my brain. Run on sentences, lack of semicolons, past tense bullshit. And knowing that it was bought for six figures by one of
No one knows how this POS/After got out of control.
What's funny about all of this (Aside from the massive amount of views on Wattpad), is the fact that this book has thrived by 11-16 year old readers, who probably had to hide under their covers and read this POS via cell phone.Parents on release day:
It's gotten so bad, in fact, that Harry Styles has blocked this author from Twitter.
Based on what I've read, I hope the editor got a BIG payday.
(OLD UNEDITED VERSION: Beginning of Chapter 1)
(NEW EDITED VERSION: Beginning of Chapter 1)
Pretendo la votazione negativa. After merita le meno cinque stelle. ABOMINIO.CLAMOROSA PALLA DI FANGO.CIABATTATA BRUTTOVERY VERY BRUTTOPARTE UNO: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lvb9D...PARTE DUE: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zTbCe...
You can go ahead and judge me for reading thing, it’s okay really, I’m already judging myself for it.
I have never, ever hated two characters more than I hate Tessa and Hardin.Tessa is: Whiny, stuck up, annoying, childish, pathetic, a H2ho, immature, irresponsible, vapid, shallow, and an overall turd.
Tessa spends 90% of this book crying and the other 10% of the time coming up with reasons to cry again.Hardin is: cocky, annoying, bizarre, stage five clinger, gross, immature, actually a woman, hot tempered, mental, and zero dark crazy.
y claro cuando aparecia Hardin ella lloraba, que no me este jodiendo que yo tenga entendido, todavía tiene novio, EN CASI TODO EL "LIBRO" ENGAÑA AL NOVIO.Hardin, es un personaje que es el tipico macho alfa, que cree que todas las chicas se mueren por él, y cuando conoce a tessa le dice que ella le pertenece JUST NOLas situaciones de la historia fueron muy tontas, cosas que no tenían que ver con lo que estaba pasando, Tessa siempre sé comporto como una zorra 
Writing Style - This book is poorly written and executed.
I see so much potentials in this book but it fails to hold my attention most of the time because of the boring writing.2.
4. Cheating - Just so we're clear, I despise books with cheating, but I admit that there are books that I loved even when there's cheating involved but that's because they're simply well-written and well-justified.
He knows the girl has a boyfriend and yet he continues to seduce her just so he can prove that he's a sex god!I did try to like this book, honestly.
⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐! After, book 1 of 5. The unlikely against-all-odds romance between tatted rebel Hardin Scott & good girl Tessa Young!   “Hardin is like a drug; each time I take the tiniest bit of him, I crave more and more. He consumes my thoughts and invades my dreams.”   Books in The After series should be read in order:Book 1: AfterBook 2: After We CollidedBook 3: After We FellBook 4: After Ever HappyBook 5: BeforeThe After series is the epic love saga between flawed rebel bad boy student and edito
It’s their journey of self-discovery, testing boundaries, pushing limits and surrendering it all for love.Nine words to describe  Hardin Allen Scott: Unpredictable, moody, flawed, broken, aloof, secretive, demanding, conflicted and possessive.Nine words to describe  Theresa Lynn Young, Tessa: Organized, meek, compulsive, goal-oriented, determined, naïve, trusting, curious and forgiving.After is told from Tessa’s POV, but next-coming books will be dual.
It’s an unlikely, all-consuming, addicting, at times angsty love story between two polar opposites.
I really enjoyed this book, despite the responsible adult in me saying I should run far in the other direction.The story centers on Theresa "Tessa" Young and her relationship with Hardin Scott.
More so than anyone else, Hardin seems to take extreme pleasure in tormenting Tessa.
No way would I ever want to be any where near a couple like this in real life.
While I don't want to give anything away, I will say that the ending of this book gutted me.
There was no way that I was going to skip the next book after that ending.
update: 11/16/15     wow this review is actually getting some attention, so i read the whole thing again and wow i was so embarrassing. please don't judge me lmao. this was written over a year ago (still hate the book with just as much passion tho)   CORRECTION: this book does not even deserve one star. it deserves 0/5 because you cant even call this thing a "book".  IM PRETTY F****** SURE EVERYONE WHO RATED THIS HIGH DONT EVEN READ REAL BOOKS. YOU ALL JUST LIKED THE SMUT  (read: sex scenes)
smh at you anna smh  read: shaking my head) also, this fic  romanticizes aggression, abuse and many other things you wouldnt want your future little daughter to read about are you starting to see my point?her are the other things that i hated about the fic:-boring, plain, crap and rushed writing style-typos anna is too lazy to correct-tons of huge, gaping plot holes- no character development at all -stupidity of the characters-tessa young-the fact that  anna did not only change the one direction boys' personalities but she also made them into sick womanizing as*holes which, by the way, REAL FANS are trying to get off harry's image to the media IM 200% SURE ANNA TODD WROTE THIS BASED ON HERS AND HER HUSBANDS SEX LIFE (im not sure about the abusing tho probably not...
this shit is becoming a movie? [faith in humanity has left the server]
Debe publicar Calidad, así que, si ya lo publicaste, pues tu historia que antes era un fanfiction, ahora es UN LIBRO y va a ser juzgado como eso.
OPINIÓN SERIA: Ahora si sobre mi opinión, va a ser más que nada una opinión sobre este tipo de libros, ahí les va: Quiero dejar algo bien en claro.
Pues porque están igual de enfermos o entupidos que el otro, como la protagonista de este libro.La gran diferencia radica en la forma en que el autor/autora quiere que veamos su historia.
After is thigh-clenching, adrenaline-inducing, emotional-exploding edge-of-your-seat exhilaration in words.Tess is a beautiful and innocent...a good girl.
Hardin is like a drug; each time I take the tiniest bite of him, I crave more and more.
After was MY DRUG and I CRAVED this story the more I read...like air needed to breathe.Hardin is my favorite type of hero: a hot, inked, cocky, built, and broken alpha.
Tess and Hardins' story was my FIRE with flames that blazed and burned...DETONATING ME.
After, this EXHILARATION in words, made me feel ALIVE.Tess...this heroine gains more strength with the turn of each page.
Para empezar, no soy fan de One Direction y, hasta la fecha, no les había prestado atención. En fin, la primera sorpresa:  esto  es un fanfic de dicha banda. Por el simple hecho de que me resulta lamentable que alguien vuelque su frustración sexual sobre ellos y que además los deje a la altura del betún, ya había perdido la esperanza de que me gustara lo más mínimo este libro. Hay tres cosas imprescindibles que hacen que un chico normal (¡hola, Harry Styles!) se convierta en el macho de la histo
Hay tres cosas imprescindibles que hacen que un chico normal (¡hola, Harry Styles!) se convierta en el macho de la historia:1) Comportamiento agresivo y obsesivo-compulsivo Alguien, en uno de estos días en los que te levantas y encuentras el significado de la vida en la taza del váter, cual Platón en su caverna, pensó que, y cito textualmente las palabras de Hardyn, “Las mujeres desean lo que no pueden tener.
Está claro que a Anna Todd le venía mejor colocarle una fachada de chico malo penosamente justificada con un padre bebedor.Eh, pero Hardyn no bebe.
PORRR FIN he terminado esta basura asquerosa e infumable. Habrá reseña en el blog, oh, claro que sí!Edito 18/02Y aquí está la reseña: http://www.book-eater.net/2015/02/res...
Even though the book was quite terrible, they made me laugh and enjoy the whole process.I have to admit that the first impression of the story was a positive one.
Furthermore, it was an easy and fast-paced read and I could relate myself to the main character, Tess.
After I've read the first half of the book I couldn't hide anymore my annoyance due to the childish behaviour of the two protagonists.
It is terrible!All in all, if you are searching for your next funny, easy with a decent message read, this book is not for you.
Me molesta de sobremanera que este libro sea el referente a una "historia de amor perfecta" que millones de chavitas quieren tener. ES LA "RELACIÓN" MÁS ENFERMA DEL MUNDO!!!! Nonononono puedo!!
3 Benévolas STARS Me acabo de dar cuenta que yo soy de las pocas que NO odia este libro. Ja hasta cuando no odio algo termino teniendo Unpopular opinion. Quiero creer que el éxito de esta historia es porque es divertida y entretenida y no porque alguien quiera llegar a ser como Tessa o que quieran en su vida alguien como Hardin.Sí, es un libro con muchísimos defectos, pero aun así aplaudo que mientras lo leía note que la autora se divirtió mucho al escribirlo.Con el éxito de este libro no me e
E visto algunas fotos de él, pero nada más.No recuerdo exactamente porque empezó a leerlo, quizá porque cuando mucha gente critica un libro me da curiosidad, no me gusta guiarme por los comentarios de las demás personas me gusta crearme mi propia opinión.En cuanto a la historia.
Y en general esta muy mal escrita, la narrativa, el vocabulario, la ortografía.Dicho lo anterior, aun no tengo claro porque, pero me engancho, quizá por lo fácil que se lee, o porque todo el tiempo está pasando algo, si tenemos un problema tras otro.
There are some things i didn't really understand like WTF is wrong with tessa !
juuuuussst kidding ( Whispering No i'm not) xD one thing i hated really was the back and forth thing , They fight, he stalk her, she ignores him, he does something nice to her and they are back On he hurt her they fight again and the story keeps going around and around in circles for the Fucking entire series 4 books of back and forth ughhh !
No por supuesto que no está mal, pero el hecho de poner a una chica así y hacerle un altar a este tipo de chicas mientras degradamosa las mujeres que les gusta arreglarse, salir, beber y divertirse.
Es cierto dentro de las novelas no tenemos historias tan brillantes que hagan el carácter de un personaje razonable y nos encontramos con escenarios sobrecargados de drama, como pasa en “La Coincidencia de Callie y Kayden” (que a mí, personalmente, no me gustó por eso mismo) pero aquí no hay una razón ni una EXCUSA RAZONABLE para darnos el carácter que tenía H.
You know when you pick up a book you are prepared to hate?
Hello book.*I do not love One Direction.
I hate the genre's overdone tropes.
It's 90% YA, 10% NA.*I love this book....Yea, throw all the popcorn you want at me.
I didn't even care about all the bloody tropes.SO MUCH TENSION.
(hide spoiler)] Talk about a punch to the stomach.>> I realize this is a series and the second book will probably be that prerequisite (view spoiler)["she ignores him and tries to move on with Zedd while Hardin gets his shit together" (hide spoiler)] so I don't know how soon I'll read it.
But GAWD, this book.Confession: I saw several of my lovely reviewer friends review this (and they all hated it!
It's good that they get some release, but I just don't like reading that, it makes me uncomfortable.However, after seeing the hate that this book was getting on goodreads I decided to give it a try.
Todd is not one of those authors,she makes you feel emotional through the way she weaves her words and drags her characters into a turmoil of drama .Anyway the hate on this book is in my opinion pure jelousy.
Anna Todd creates emotion, engages the reader and that makes her a good writer.
