https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5098079-lover-avenged
“It’s simple. I don’t think you should date anyone.” Rehv moved in even closer, until he could see the flecks of gold in her eyes. “But I’m not just anyone.”  Wow! I think I've found my new favorite BDB book!!!!! (Besides Z's, he will ALWAYS be #1)My first read was great, I loved it, but it didn't stand out from the others. On my second read... Amazing!! One of my favorite books EVER, not just the BDB! It's totally surprising considering Rehv and the nasty business with his blackmailer, but I
The storyWith most of the glymera dead or hidden, there is a fight for power in the vampire world between those who are left behind, and their main obstacle is their king, Wrath.Only four Brothers are left that are able to fight, which forces Wrath to get back on the streets and do some fighting on his own, even though it's forbidden because he is King.Rehvenge is approached by a council member who wants to eliminate Wrath.He has to deal with his club, his monthly visit to his blackmailer, his "illness" that needs more and more treatments, and now he has to decide where his loyalties lie.One night at the clinic, waiting for his dopamine shots, he talks with "his" nurse, Ehlena :) She isn't afraid of Rehv like all the others are, and is intrigued by him, but she knows that they are from two totally different worlds, so she refuses him when his flirtations get too high.When Rehv's past and double life threaten the people he loves, he will be forced to make a difficult decision...
4 Sin Eater StarsFirst read 2014Reread April 3 2017“Life is such a glorious trauma, is it not?”-Wrath  SpoilersLover Avenged is the 7th book in the BDB series and it was a good read with tons going on. I'm going to keep this review short and sweet so I can get to my John Matthews' book right away. Rehvenge and Ehlena were both cute and likable. I loved how playful, vulnerable, and tender Rehv was with Ehlena. Ehlena was sweet but she did make me angry for a bit when she didn't stand by her man.
I'm going to keep this review short and sweet so I can get to my John Matthews' book right away.
There was too damn much Lash and the Lessers shit in this book.
I loved Wrath and Beth in this book.
I was really upset with Tohr and the way he was with John Matthew for half this book.
I loved all the funny ass interactions between Lassiter and all the brothers.
John Matthew really hit rock bottom in this book.
I really loved getting to know Xhex more in this book.
You guys suck.” -Lassiter,Vishous, and Wrath
It’s got everything that you could want, starting with an outstanding hero and heroine in nightclub owner/ drug lord Rehvenge and nurse Ehlena.
Add to that a plot to get rid of (as in ‘kill’) and replace the King by some of the glymera, and it’s no wonder Wrath has one giant headache all the time.Then we have nightclub owner, drug lord, and secret half-breed sympath Rehvenge, brother of Bella, who’s married to the Brother Zsadist.
Rehvenge is getting blackmailed from a couple of people who know his true identity, and one of them wants him to go in on a plot to murder Wrath.
Even when I wasn't reading it, I was pondering the interactions between the characters, hoping for the best, and dreading the worst that I felt was coming.
I don't know how the WARDen does it, but my love for this series and her writing grows even more all-consuming with each book.
I can't read any of her books without getting my emotions involved in the process.I loved Rehv before I read this book.
Let's just say it's going to be 'on' in the next book.It was nice seeing the other brothers, but like the greedy BDB fan that I am, I wanted more of them.
And I can tell you now, when I finished reading Lover Avenged, it wasn’t what I expected and it didn’t disappoint either—it literally blew me away!
This book was amazing!I really loved Rehv and Ehlena’s story.
Before I started reading this book, I had a feeling that I would enjoy Rehv’s character, but I never thought that I would fall head over heels in love with this half-symphath, half-vampire!
He simply stole my heart with his selflessness, gentleness, and thoughtfulness.Wrath is always one of my favorite male characters in this series, so I’m particularly biased toward him here.
I enjoyed his story and I loved a little drama between him and Beth.
“You know,” he said, “this is why I love you so much.”Her tone was heartbreakingly warm. “What do you mean?”“You don’t ask me to go inside because it’s cold. You just want to make it easier for me to be where I want to stand.”  Frankly, I read this book without a break. Rehv and Elena's story was more than I had expected even though I wasn't into his character that much from the previous books. Rehv have been a detached character for me from the start, I didn't sympathize him as much as I shoul
Rehv and Elena's story was more than I had expected even though I wasn't into his character that much from the previous books.
However, J.R. ward could practically attracted me with the other stories and characters.
Her narrative is good as always, I couldn't have asked for more.
I loved Wrath and Beth's story, it's a little bit tragic and sad at some point, but in the end, their story was what redeemed this book to 5 stars rating.
I can't even guess where the story will go in the next book and hope J.R. Ward will keep writing this until the world ends.https://goo.gl/okejwE
you know what needs to be avenged? my heart it didn't deserve this treatment
But behind the persona, he had a secret that not only would change his life, but the Brotherhood as well.Ehlena was a kind hearted nurse who had fell into tough times.
She had been admiring Rehv afar, but as they got closer, his secret could possibly rip them apart.In previous books in the series, even though Rehv intrigued me, he wasn't a character I cared about.
Before reading, I wasn't sure if my opinion of him would change.
The thing was, it wasn’t that she wanted to change everything.
Besides Rehv and Ehlena, Wrath & Beth, and John Matthew & Xhex were the secondary stories.
“Even the powerful needed protection sometimes.”  Lover Avenged is one of my favorite installments of the Black Dagger Brotherhood series. It is the love story of Rehvenge and Ehlena. Rehv's character is so special and extravagant. Despite his tough and merciless façade, he is self-devoted and selfless for those who he loves. I really enjoyed the reveal of his personality. Ehlena is perfect for him: she is honest, open-minded, clear-sighted, and brave.Like in the previous books of the series,
Lover Avenged is one of my favorite installments of the Black Dagger Brotherhood series.
It is the love story of Rehvenge and Ehlena.
The bond and loyalty between the four of them is as strong as the bond between the Brothers.Lash is arrogant and powerful enough, but the real antagonist here is the Sympath Princess.Not a surprise that John and Xhex’s story, of which you already got crumbs in the previous books, is perfectly and genuinely prepared.Lover Avenged is an outstanding installment of the Black Dagger Brotherhood series.Originally posted on my blog on March 9, 2013.My favorite quotes.
Rehvenge or Rehv and Ehlena  “Ehlena?”“Yeah?”“Don’t take this the wrong way.”She drew in a deep breath and he saw her bare shoulders tighten. “Okay. I’ll try not to.”“You keep showing up here? Being who you are?” There was a pause. “I’m going to fall in love with you.  Ehlena is a sweet, humble nurse who lives with her old and unable to help himself father. She is a good nurse dedicated to her job at Haver’s clinic and her patients. She is a good daughter who stands by her sick father and spends
Ehlena is a sweet, humble nurse who lives with her old and unable to help himself father.
She is a good nurse dedicated to her job at Haver’s clinic and her patients.
So, Ehlena and Rehvenge have really nothing in common – except Rehvenge’s frequent visits to the clinic in order to get antibiotics and medicines in large quantities.
Rehvenge thinks that he does not deserve her.
And because she will be the brotherhood’s special nurse and a valuable asset for all the warriors.Book cover: Yes I am totally biased.
I adore all Paul Marron’s book covers (although I love him more as LOTHAIRE).
And of course, Xhex and John, although it is quite sad what happens to them in the book.
I seriously cannot wait to find out what happens to John Matthew and Xhex in Lover Mine.
John may possibly be my favourite Brother.
"I feel like I'm walking down into a porn movie," V muttered as they took the steps with care."Wouldn't that require more black candles for you," Zsadist cracked.
At the bottom of the landing, they looked left and right down a corridor carved out of stone, seeing row after row of...black candles with ruby color flames.
5 Stars!!!!! Let’s meet Rehv...  Your friendly neighborhood drug lord, pimp, and enforcer. Rehvenge is one awesome male in this series. He is not a member of the Brotherhood. But he works with them. His sister Bella is mated to the brother Zsadist. And the brothers know his secret. Rehv is half sympath, along with Xhex. Technically speaking, he should be in a colony up north with the other sympaths, but his secret is safe... for now. He makes some huge sacrifices to keep it that way. By paying o
She gets ahold of Rehv and makes arrangements to meet him with some antibiotics, knowing he won’t come back to the clinic.
Rehv knows he is no good for Ehlena.
Rehv has to make some really tough choices to protect those he loves.
This book had a bit of a cliffy ending (not for Rehv and Ehlena though) so I am anxious to read the next one!
I’ve loved John Matthew since we were first introduced to him so I’m really excited to get into it next Friday!This was a solid 5 star read for me.
I can't help but fall in love with each book in the series, and each time I start a new page, chapter or book I wonder if I'll ever tire of this extraordinary paranormal fix and the answer is a huge resounding NO.
You may have already guessed that I love the characters in 'Lover Avenged' and I'm more than excited to see what the author does next with the other pieces of the puzzle in this series.My final thoughts ...You have got to know by now, that I would recommend this series to you.
This was, in my opinion, the best of the series, and I now adore Rehvenge, whereas before I really didn't like him at all. That's the beauty of the WARDen's writing.She's really outdone herself!My birthday gift to myself was an autographed copy of this book. It came wrapped in birthday paper, has a birthday wish from the WARDen, and I LOVE IT!
I make females nervous.RehvengeNot her blood but her hurt was going to save him.EhlenaIn this book we see that Wrath has many enemies that are willing to kill him.There are only 4 brothers left fighting so he decides that he should start fighting again but he hides this from Beth.Rehvenge has to deal with his club , the princess and his sympath nature at the same time.
I wouldnt mind you watching me."Their relationship is very beautiful because they complete each other.Ehlena doesnt ask questions about him but he hates himself for hiding her the truth.JohnIn this book he annoyed me so much with his I-dont-give-a-shit attitude.Just because Xhex rejected him that doesnt justify his actions.(view spoiler)[He gets drunk and fucks whores.
At times I was slightly confused but at the end I caught up on the main things.I liked that we got to see more Wrath and Bella again but they sure had their own problems.
But nothing like Rehvenge's problems.
But then again, love does have it's ups and downs and Rehvenge got the full ride on that treacherous train.
I liked Ehlena, not as much as Rehvenge (for obvious reasons) but still more than the rest of the characters.
All in all, I liked the story and the new plot.
In a way it did, since someone got taken but still...
Although pegged as Rehvenge's book, LOVER AVENGED belongs equally to Wrath and his continuing story.
The BDB is so involved and complex with so many major characters, interweaving stories and POV's that you would be utterly lost plus you'd miss out on the other 6 great books in this fantastic series, but if you're a fan you won't be disappointed, true.
LOVER AVENGED made me laugh, made me cry and I didn't want it to end yet JR has done a great job in setting things up for the next book which is to be John Mathew's story (Lover Mine.)
This series keeps getting harder and harder to review. Each book covers so much information across so many characters that I can't possibly begin to touch on everything. So I am going to do something I don't normally do... I am going to do gif reactions. If you want me to elaborate anything, just drop me a comment. Wrath -Rehv -Ehlena-Xhex -Xhex and John -John-Beth -Rehv and Ehlena -Wrath and Beth -Rehv and Bella - Wrath and PayneEnding - 4 STARS!
So the guy who cared about very little was in charge of a hell of a lot.[image error]Rehvenge is a ......holy swoony sex on a stick......It's so hard to review a book like this...there's so many side stories and so much information....my mind is blown every time I finish a book in the series.
This book broke my heart because Rehv was so damn yummy alpha and fiercely loving and protective of his family and friends.
So although he was a pimp, and a drug lord, and a murderer and a lot of other less than noble things....I could overlook it all because he had a heart of pure damn gold!!
I have never been a great fan of Rehvenge but he turned into a much nicer character once under the influence of his Ehlena and I enjoyed their whole story.
The side stories were the best though and the humour.
I hope we hear a lot more of him in the future!As usual the book was a tad too long and it flagged a bit in the middle but then the whole Wrath story developed and that was intense and very sad.All very entertaining and of course there's a cliff hanger at the end to make sure I move on to the next book soon:)
3.5 StarsI won’t recap the story, since I am probably writing review number 1,000 for this book.
I think that is why I might have been more disappointed then the average reader.
I especially loved John’s story.
To me John stole the show…I was basically like Rhev who??
Where is John?I have had this issue throughout the last few books.
I think Ms. Ward is trying to begin the segue into the next installment; however, I am finding the actual MC to be lacking.
That is why I am having issues reviewing this particular book.
Rehvenge's Story brings back the hard-hitting action and suspense we've come to expect from this series!Beware of Spoilers if you haven't read the first 6 books in the series...   ...every once in a while, from out of the blue, someone reaches the quiet place where you spend your private time and changes the way you see yourself...   I'm cautiously optimistic... I feel like we've reached a turning point with this installment, and I sincerely hope the momentum continues with the subsequent books.
Ehlena is a nurse in Haver's clinic - and what do you want to bet she was the nurse who helped Phury evacuate the patients in Lover Enshrined?
So as I read Lover Avenged, I resolved to write down every single brand name mentioned.The result was staggering!
Not to mention the darkness and creepy-crawlies...John Matthew has long been my favorite character of this series, but he needs to get his shit together.
1. Dark Lover - My Review2.
Lover At Last - My Review12.
Lover At Last - My Review12.
There was a lot going on in this one, a LOT! I'm finding that as the series grows the poor characters the book is supposed to be about seem to be getting less and less page time, to the point of getting totally swallowed up and lost in everyone else's dramas. That said, the little I did get of Rehv and Elehna together I loved, he needed her quiet strength and support. Ward certainly gives her characters the perfect mates.
A sua recusa vai muito além, de estar na disposição ou não, de fazer um favor ao Revh.Eu não li todo este texto em português, porque simplesmente não tive estômago e tempo para o fazer, e como tal, imagino que existam muitos mais disparates, que eu nunca irei descobrir.Talvez algum verdadeiro tradutor(a) alguma vez esteja na disposição de irritar-se durante uns bons dias, a corrigir tal tradução..Mais algumas idiotices, para se ficar com os olhos em bico( pois, ainda mais!) que descobri neste texto:"Não podes mudar quem és.
Why do these books have to be so long?! I have a short attention span so staying focused for 500+ pages and keeping a bunch of different story lines straight pushes me each time I read one of these books. I'm still not a fan of the lessers and tend to skim their parts unless they are messing with the brothers. Rehv &  Ehlena were the main love story in this one. "Why did you come? -Rehv"I followed my heart." -EhlenaBut JM and Xhex caught my eye in this one. By the end of the book I don't eve
Dark Lover(#1) The King (#12) {Wrath & Beth}Rhage: is the strongest and most beautiful of the Brothers.
Nicknamed "Hollywood." Lover Eternal (#2) {Rhage & Mary}Zsadist: has a twin, Phury.
Nickname "Cop." Lover Revealed (#4) {Butch & Marissa}Vishous: is the smartest Brother, and the one who is specially gifted/cursed.
Lover Unbound (#5) {Vishous & Jane}Phury: Zsadist's twin brother and loyal to his brother.
Lover Enshrined (#6) {Phury & Cormia}Rehvenge: brother-in-law to Zsadist.
To find out when The Shadows will be released and if there will be more books in the series click here.Novellas:
4.5 I love Rehvenge Stars!!Where to start.....Rehv I loved Rehv's story. It was so heartbreaking to see what he has been subjected to over the years with the Princess blackmailing him and what he has been forced to endure to protect who he and Xhex are. After he meets Ehlena, he wants nothing more than to have as much of a normal life as a Symphath can with anyone. He doesn't believe that he is good enough for her though.Ehlena has always found Rehv intriguing. With her father's bad health and h
4.5 I love Rehvenge Stars!!Where to start.....Rehv
I loved Rehv's story.
It was so heartbreaking to see what he has been subjected to over the years with the Princess blackmailing him and what he has been forced to endure to protect who he and Xhex are.
After he meets Ehlena, he wants nothing more than to have as much of a normal life as a Symphath can with anyone.
He doesn't believe that he is good enough for her though.Ehlena has always found Rehv intriguing.
Next up is John Matthew and Xhex's story....
He's so much more than the "gangster" facade....he's totally devoted to his family and the people he loves and will do anything to protect them, even giving up his life for them.
Ehlena is a perfect "foil" for him.And of course, getting some more about these fabulous vampires and their world...is enough to keep me so so very very HAPPY.2nd ReviewStill love this book...just as exciting as the previous times I read it.
Only Ward could make a swoon-worthy romantic hero/male of worth out of a mohawk-sporting, cane-yielding, sable-coat-wearing, drug-dealing pimp like Rehv.“Lover Avenged” (and the entire BDB series) is flat-out awesomeness!!
I think everyone takes something different from the books in this series but for me I love the stories.
These two lonely people finally found a safe place and comfort with each other.Rhev and Bella - The last scene was wonderful where he thinks he will always be her Rooster.Ehlena to Rhev - Hilarious line by Ehlena to Rhev: "It's probably quiet because of the ball gags next door" LOL, even though I love V and Jane that line was pretty funny.John Matthew and Xhex - Oh John Matthew, what the heck are you thinking?
Rehv's and Ehlena's love story is well done and surprisingly sweet.Ehlena makes a worthy mate.Ehlena is a nurse from the clinic who treats Rehv after he develops sepsis from repeatedly injecting the dopamine he must take to hide the fact that he's a sympath.It's an unlikely pairing that somehow works even though Rhevenge is still a major drug lord and has his hands full running the nightclub Zerosum and being a leahdyre on the council.We do get to see a whole new side of him however and gain a much greater insight into the world of sympaths.Rhevenge is a complicated man who is very loyal to those he loves.When you meet first you think he is a little scared but reading his book you totally change your mind!!
