https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/304845.Noah_s_Ark
Without ministers, leaders, christians, friends, and authors like Peter Spier then how would the lovely bible stories just like Noah and the ark be spread?
Anyone who is reading this then i want to let you know that you are the voices of Jesus… While on the earth its your job to spread love and peace… Its your job to share the bible and the stories that it contains and frankly i love doing that because seeing the expression on a childs face whenever they learn something new is PRICELESS!
When my mother explained the story (and she explained it like it is depicted in the Bible), I used a very very bad word (that I had just heard and memorised) to describe God, and oh boy, did I ever catch it (but this did not change my attitude, and from hence on, I just kept quiet about my feelings regarding Noah and the Flood and God's role) And I guess I am wondering if other children might have similar thoughts and reactions with regard to the poem (and perhaps also with regard to the illustrations of the masses of animals standing outside of the ark, when it starts to rain, as my main issue as a child was that the animals were innocent and even as a three year old, I hated to see injustice, and other children might well have similar reactions).
Spier’s wordless picture book is impressive in how it explores different emotions and circumstances that deal with the ark.
Sadness sets in when the ark is closed up and all the animals that are unable to board must look on in despair as the waters rise.
The book also conveys a strong sense of sacrifice and work ethic.
The book attests to the marvel of Noah's experience, and it balances the extraordinary nature of the adventure with humorous moments and the stubbornness of certain animals, such as the rats that give Noah’s wife a scare.
I really don't care for biblical themed story books. This one is practically wordless, letting the pictures relate the tale, and as such is fairly well done.
I've really come to enjoy Peter Spier's books!
A number of his works only have a sentence or two, although this one does begin with a poem about Noah's story on the first page, but his illustrations are so vividly full and so telling, you don't notice a lack of words.A must look!Ages: 2+**Like my reviews?
I also have hundreds of detailed reports that I offer too.
These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't.
I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it!
Visit my website: The Book Radar.
While I thought the illustrations for this book were quite nice in detail and color, I didn't really care for the content as much.
I am pretty sure that Noah did not have glass jars to keep all the bugs in, nor metal cages for the tigers...and one page in particular is especially depressing for me, it's near the beginning.
It starts to rain and then in the next picture half of the animals are gone and the other half (the tall ones) are mid-body length deep in water.
They were just there a page ago?"You: "um, well, they went for a swim...a rather short swim...because they kind of...uh, drowned..."No, I'm pretty sure you can't say that.
This is an incredible book. The story is wordless, but the illustrations are detailed and with a nice little touch of humor (check out the expressions, and the number of rabbits!). So many things to look at on each page.
Spier translated the poem which mentions “Cow and moose, Hare and goose,Sheep and ox,Bee and fox…”The poem, itself, is on page 1, but the story really begins on the front inside cover and flyleaf, with a two-page panoramic spread that shows destruction of a village in the distance, while Noah and his family prosper on a hillside and the words “…But Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord.” This is followed by two more “double truck” pictorial panoramas showing the construction of the ark, while a parade of villagers streams past, and the stacks of provisions ready to be loaded aboard, before the poem is printed.
Most of the text is on one page at the beginning. It's a poem by Jacobus Revius (1586–1658), translated from the Dutch by Peter Spier. This book won a Caldecott Medal in 1978.3.5 stars
Beautiful illustrations. This is the perfect book for telling the story aloud to the kids.
This nearly wordless 1978 Caldecott Medal Winner relies chiefly on illustrations to tell the story of Noah and the ark he builds to survive the flood that God is sending.
The incredibly-detailed illustrations show the work that went into building and then filling the ark with various species, including cows, bees, elephants, dogs, and cats.
One of the last illustrations with the ark, now empty of all animals but still filled with baskets and debris, effectively conveys just how close those quarters were and how refreshing it must have been to be able to set foot--or paw--on land once again.
Noah’s Ark was interpreted and written in a very unique way by Peter Spier.
In the original story, the animals enter the ark two by two but Spier added his own creative while also more realistic twist to it.
The littlest of animals seemed to still pop out and show so much detail.
It was modern, unique and had a little bit of a twist compared to the original.
I feel as if kids would prefer this version.
Personally, I think this book needs to be red to very young kids.
It is an excellent book, that is awesome for younger children.*I would think this book might only be used in a Christian school because of its religious meaning and one page talks about trusting the Lord.Activity 1: For an art project the children can construct their own ark, out of popsicle sticks and various supplies.
It would be a fun way for the students to see the hard work it took in building something so magnificent.Activity 2: The students can write their own story for each page, since almost all the pages don't have words.
The students can be creative in coming up with what each page would say as they write their version of the story.
1) Book summary: The story is about this man name Noah.
The pictures tell the story of how Noah build the ark and how no one wanted to listen to him.
Noah was able to save the animals.2) Grade level, interest level, lexile: PreK-2nd grade, ages 3-7, lexile is unknown3) Appropriate classroom use (subject area): Language art/reading block4) Individual students who might benefit from reading: Smaller children would benefit best from this book5) Small group use (literary circles): This could be used for kindergarten students learning about animals or if in bible school the story behind Noah's ark6) Whole class use (read aloud): Can use some of the term from the book or student can learn how to spell the name of the animals that was on the boat7) Related books in genre/subject or content area: What do people do all day book8) Multimedia connections (audio book, movie) available: Kindle, Paperback
1978 Caldecott Medal - Favorite Illustration: I love the joy and relief when the dove brings back the branch and Noah and his wife share a quiet moment of happiness, then the excitement as Noah runs through the ark showing all the animals the branch.This wordless picture book is told in panel format and the detail given by Spier makes it easy to see why it won the Caldecott medal!
I love all the fun little quirks given to the different animals, and the emotions as Noah lovingly cares for each one.
This is a wonderfully illustrated book about the story of Noah and the flood. The narrative was brief and simple, and most of the pages have no words. The animals are nicely detailed and we loved the depiction of how crowded and messy it was on the ark. Our girls really liked this book.This book was selected as one of the books for the January 2016- Quarterly Caldecott discussion at the Picture-Book Club in the Children's Books Group here at Goodreads.
I love the illustrations in this nearly wordless book. The beginning contains a poem, translated from Dutch, about Noah, his ark and the animals. Then the illustrations portray Noah and his family caring for the animals and everyone's joy when dry land is found and all can embark. I appreciate Noah's facial features...concern for the animals mixed with exasperation when things don't go smoothly. And I love seeing the animals leaving the ark...the large quantity of rabbits, the elephant's reluctance, the birds flying off. A lovely way to introduce young children to this Bible story.
I knew this book was good when I got to the end and felt this palpable sense of relief at that ark door finally opening up again. Spier does a great job of capturing the many different situations and experiences that we can only imagine a year+ in an ark must have led to. There is no text (except at the beginning), but the illustrations are more than capable of doing the "talking" for us. It's also more Biblically accurate (though not 100%) than many "Noah's Ark" books I've seen.
This book is based on a bible story about Noah and the great flood. It dicusses how God asked Noah wo was a good man to bring two of every king of the world's creatures into a great ark before the rest of the world suffered a great flood. It is an exciting oppertunity for children to gain knowledge of religious stories and therefore has good cross-curricular incentive. The story is suitable for children aged 4-11.
This is a Caldecott medal winner. Sparse on text, the illustrations drive this tale of Noah who found grace in the eyes of the Lord and was given the overwhelming task of ensuring two of each animal fill the large boat he needed to build.The illustrations are incredibly detailed. What might be perceived as too busy in the hands of an unskilled artist, Spier's images fill the pages and delight the senses.
This wordless book shows the Biblical story of Noah's arc through the use of pictures. This could be of help to early readers within one's classroom that have struggles reading. Even so, with the use of this book they could feel successful in being able to "read" a book, because they did it through pictures.
I use this in our Caldecott unit to talk about what "detail" means in illustration, about the use of panels, and about how pictures and layout create mood. In one dramatic moment, for example, the contrast between the activity inside the ark and the complete quiet and stillness outside is conveyed through Spier's choice of layout. Wordless.
I'm a follower of Jesus and I know the story from the Bible well. I did not like how graphic this is for children. It's not exactly a children-friendly tale to begin with but its heartbreaking to see how all the non-chosen animals die. Yes, I know that's the fact of the story... I just felt it was a little too graphic.
This wordless book illustrates Noah's Ark. It shows the animals left behind--I felt sorry for them! It also shows the village getting covered with water. It also shows how much work it would have been to keep the ark clean and the animals fed.
1978 Caldecott medal.Very intricate drawings. Each scene has so many things to look at. Each time you flip through it you see something new.
Peter Spier's retelling of Noah's Ark is stunning.
What a realistic representation of life on the ark.
I will start by saying this book may not be appropriate for all children given it is a biblical tale, but the illustrations are something all children should experience.
The book is the story of Noah’s Ark without any words except on the first page, there is a poem explaining the story.
The pen offers the intricate detail of the animals and the ark, but the watercolors contrast the pen by providing soft, realistic colors.
Even though this is a biblical story, I think I could use this in my classroom just to teach about animals, arks, and what life might be like on a ship full of animals.
Noah’s Ark is a wordless picture book illustrated by Peter Spier.
Even though there are two sentences and one poem (mainly narrating the sequence of events in the Biblical story of Noah’s Ark), the vast majority of the book is filled with pictures; hence, I categorize this as a wordless picture book.
The sophistication of this picture book is farther enhanced by a mixture of acrylic and water color paintings.
Each picture runs over the gutter, and the cover art presents yet another glimpse at the sophistication of Spier’s illustrations.
God, flood, boat, ark, animals, family, earth4.
God is unhappy and sorry he made the world, so he decided to destroy everything.
There is a good man and God says,"I will flood the Earth.
God says"Bring two of every kind of animal, one boy and one girl".
But story is little difficult to understand for me...
I know only this book's title, but I don't know much about this story.
I read this book but I couldn't understand.
This book is low level, so I try to read more long and detail same story.
