https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/345689.The_Works_of_Algernon_Charles_Swinburne
I think there is a reason why I never read more Swinburne poetry than I did while in college and getting my Master’s. It’s not the poetry is bad. It isn’t, but if you compare it to the Brownings, to Donne, to Marlowe, to Chaucer, and so on, it doesn’t quite match them. Well, most of his poetry doesn’t. Swinburne’s take on the Tristan and Iseult legend, “Tristram of Lynonesse” should be read by any lover of the Arthurian myth.“And their four lips became one burning mouth.” And while Swinburne is
I think there is a reason why I never read more Swinburne poetry than I did while in college and getting my Master’s.
It’s not the poetry is bad.
It isn’t, but if you compare it to the Brownings, to Donne, to Marlowe, to Chaucer, and so on, it doesn’t quite match them.
Well, most of his poetry doesn’t.
Swinburne’s take on the Tristan and Iseult legend, “Tristram of Lynonesse” should be read by any lover of the Arthurian myth.“And their four lips became one burning mouth.”	And while Swinburne is not Shakespeare’s equal, he is a Shakespeare fan boy.
The poems are pleasant if not great.
It is great to read his poems on the Elizabethans.Crossposted at Booklikes.
Swinburne was kind of a little bitch.I wouldn't normally gendered language so I apologise.But ...
he just was.Wilde called him a "a braggart in matters of vice, who had done everything he could to convince his fellow citizens of his homosexuality and bestiality without being in the slightest degree a homosexual or a bestializer."And he's kind of right.
And was randomly mean about people.I think he and Burton were kinky as fuck together though.
I mean, just as mates y'know.
A little friendly flogging.He's kind of a shrill, one note poet.
And the best and the worst of this isThat neither is most to blame,If you have forgotten my kissesAnd I have forgotten your name.
Come, take thy sword and slay; Let me not starve between desire and death, But send me on my way with glad wet lips; For in the vein-drawn ashen-coloured palm Death's hollow hand holds water of sweet draught To dip and slake dried mouths at, as a deer Specked red from thorns laps deep and loses pain.
Nay, but be swift with me; Set thy sword here between the girdle and breast, Let me not starve between desire and death?
But love makes that all that love him wellAs wise as heaven and crueller than hell.Me hath love made more bitter towards theeThan death towards man; but were I made as heWho hath made all things to break them one by one,If my feet trod upon the stars and sunAnd souls of men as his have always trod,God knows I might be crueller than God.After that I loved his 'Hymn to Proserpine', spoken by the last pagan of Rome: Thou hast conquered, O pale Galilean...
Mesmerizing, hypnotic poetry. Let nothing stand in your way of obtaining the version illustrated by Harry Clarke.
This is a "complete works" so while it's got all of Swineburn's "good stuff" it's also got some real dogs as well. I have to admit that I'm more a fan of his goth-y/mythological poems more than I am of his lengthy odes to people (although his epitaph to rival Oscar Wilde is a marvel of brevity) and places.

Like most anthologies, I liked a small subset of the poems.
Swinburne contemplates love and lust -- explores the positives of the "body" side of this mind-body duality.
The poem reads like a hymn to lust and bodily pleasure.
While worshiping Dolores, the courtesan, Swinburne labels her "Our Lady of Pain", possibly seeing that she is only half the story.
For creeds that refuse and restrain""A Child's Laugther" is a sweet poem, though not in the same class.I skipped over a lot of the poems that would require knowledge of back-story to be fully appreciated.
I wish anthologies would come with notes that at least provided a footing to appreciate the context of such poems.
For always thee the fervid languid glories Allured of heavier suns in mightier skies; Thine ears knew all the wandering watery sighsWhere the sea sobs round Lesbian promontories, The barren kiss of piteous wave to wave That knows not where is that Leucadian graveWhich hides too deep the supreme head of song. Ah, salt and sterile as her kisses were, The wild sea winds her and the green gulfs bearHither and thither, and vex and work her wrong, Blind gods that cannot spare.
Swinburne is a master of rhyming poetry. But, like most poetry, not every piece in this collection is lovable. However, the thought that this man wrote "A Match," quite possibly the greatest short form poem I've ever read, is enough to make me fall in love. My god.
I could read it a thousand times.
