https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/186103.Peeps
Funny, because Westerfelds other book, Uglies, the message was dont pollute the environment.
Basically, vampirism is an STD, which the protagonist, Cal, has caught from a girl named Morgan, when they were....well, you know.
Unfortunately, every girl he kisses or has sex with, he infects, and turns them into a vampire.
The actual plot of this book is him trying to catch Morgan-the girl who infected him in the first place.'Peeps' a weird book.
Let me say this: I prefer Scott Westerfeld's blood-thirsty, horny vampires in Peeps, over the sparkling ones in Twilight or the love obsessed ones created by Richelle Mead.
This is a young adult book?
It might be marketed for the teenage crowd, but I'd say it's more adult, less young.
Things that should not be in YA fiction: four-letter words (including the worst one), a casual attitude toward promiscuity and uncommitted sex, visits to a gay bar, and a not-very-subtle contempt for religious beliefs, expressed with a condescending and scornful voice.Things in this book: all of the above.If you can get past that, it's actually a pretty good book.
Even if I am a superstitious religious nut who believes she is not part of the chimp family.
Because in Westerfeld's story, vampirism is a disease spread by a little parasite called Toxoplasma.
There is something about a cat with a vampiric parasite that is just so much more appealing than a normal one.The even numbered chapters of this book don't directly relate to the action-packed plot described above.
Lots of chapters end on cliff hangers that make you want to read that much faster.
In fact, I had to reread the last couple of chapters to be sure I knew what was going on.Confusion aside, the story was awesome.
I love Scott Westerfeld unconditionally, but this book was lots of fun to read.
I loved this tight, scientific vampire book. It's a sparsely written, fast-paced novel about a disease that mimics vampirism and the end of the world.
There is nothing romantic about vampirism here; it is sexy only in the sense that those infected with it become increasingly horny, and spread the disease through physical contact.Our narrator, 19 year old Cal Thompson, is a parasite positive, or "Peep" as he calls them, who contracted the disease through a one night stand when he first moved to New York.
He has joined the Night Watch, an organization devoted to hunting Peeps down, and is working on capturing his former girlfriends to whom he has spread the disease.What I particularly liked about this book was the way Westerfeld attributes aspects of the vampire legend to the need for the vampire parasite to spread.
"I lost my virginity to the apocalypse!"Scott Westerfeld's  Peeps  is another great off the wall vampire novel. A far cry from Anne Rice's sultry, albeit long, stories about vampires, Westerfeld takes the classic vampire and pretty much rips it apart. In Peeps vampires are more like people with a nasty case of syphilis than sexy indestructible gods. Being a vampire means being infected with a parasite that craves circulation above all else. Drinking blood is kind of a... side effect of the paras
Cats play an important role in the book too, but so do rats, so that's not saying much.Don't worry, the parasitic chapters don't read like a text book or Wiki entry, Westerfeld makes it feel like the main character is just telling us about the parasite, conversationally.
Some are good, some are bad, some fight with each other inside your colon.In the beginning it seems like it really is just another vampire novel, but after a few odd chapters about different parasites that live on your body (or in it) you start to realize there's something else going on here.
The parasite chapters are almost more insightful than the actual story.
The basis of the horror in this novel isn't occult, but scientific.
Parasites make their hosts do things.
True horror & there are a lot of examples.
When I finished the book, I found that the author said they were all real parasites & even has a bibliography.
It's not bad, but just OK.All finished, can't say the story itself did a whole lot for me.
Interest premise, fun ride. Loved that the female protagonist wasn't all helpless and actually was smarter/funnier/more interesting than the lead male. HOWEVER I could not wrap my head around the rhythm of her voice. The author had her doing weird things like saying "Dude" at the end of EVERY sentence, which made no sense and got irritating very quickly. But that's the only complaint, awesome book.
This one’s an interesting reinvention of the vampire myth—vampirism is a sexually transmitted parasite, an idea that Westerfeld explores fully, and often with great creativity and zest.
The aversion to sunlight is a similar deal.) The sexual frustration of Cal—the parasite positive but rare resistant peep hunter—is quite amusing, and Westerfeld creates an excellent temptation for him in Lace, an NYU student whose dialogue—I swear to God—sounds like it could have come straight from Dean Winchester’s lips.
There are giant worms.
Giant worms, people.
It’s like Buffy meets Tremors, and so far, not in a good way.
Like, Extras ending level of stupid ~it was all just a misunderstanding!~ kind of stupid that frankly pisses me off.The world was pretty cool (until the literal big reveal) and idk something about Cal just screamed "I'M A SELF INSERT CHARACTER FOR SCOTT WESTERFELD" I mean, they're both Texans in New York, they're both boys for one thing, and I've never met Scott Westerfeld, but I've read a crap ton of his books, and after a while, the author's personality bleeds through.
Cal's a self insert character if I ever read one, and that's pretty disappointing because I wanted more normal guys as YA protagonists.
This is perhaps the weirdest, most unique take on vampires ever. I will be thinking about that twisting on a stick worm in the leg thing for a long time. I've got the creepy crawlies right now.
This book is entirely appropriate for teens.
It does have a little swearing in the novel, but what teen has not heard swear words by the age of 10?
The main character goes into a gay bar once, with no sexual activity whatsoever.
Coddling teens is something I abhor and being ignorant of the world is not to be aspired to.
This book is far more appropriate than the popular Twilight series, in which the female protagonist is uninteresting, obsessedwith Edward and to a lesser degree Jacob.
The main female character is far different.
Woah. This book is creepy. Giant rats, vampires, and lots and lots of SCIENCE (very readable—no bio background required). Oh tales of epidemics, I love you so. Check this one out for sure!
I loved how they linked everything up with parasites and even the side chapters that gave us a brief edumacation about the little ankle biters.
I liked how Westerfeld explained their street system and even the subway tunnels.
Very informative and not boring like how a big text book would explain it :)I got a bit bored in the beginning of this book but by the end I was glued.
But I totally recommend all my vampire loving friends who want a little BITE in their book to check this out.
It's really different, neat, and above all major coolness.P.S. I think a boy or a girl would dig this book :)
Peeps is the story of Cal, a young man who is a carrier of a parasite that causes vampirism.
Cal works for the Night Watch, a centuries-old institute that hunts down out of control peeps.Peeps stands for parasite-positive, people who have been infected with the parasite that causes vampirism.
Scott Westerfeld creates a vampire lore that is based on parasitic infection.
Every even numbered chapter has a description of a parasite, it's life-cycle, and it's evolution.
The end of the book has a section on how to avoid parasites.Scott Westerfeld has a quirky writing style.
I really enjoyed this book.
The rest of the world was a vast extension of her parents’ basement, the last place she wanted to wind up.The main character is Cal, who was infected with the parasite and is now a carrier – meaning he gets lots of the vampire superpowers, but is not crazy like real vampires.
Trematodes are tiny fish that live in the stomach of a bird.…And here I skidded to a halt and readjusted my expectations for this book.
How about this: Trematodes are tiny monkeys that live in the stomach of a bird.To me, those sentences sound no more ridiculous than the original.
AFTER READING: OH MY that was horrible.
The entire book is spent discussing PARASITES...
no, a long, detailed DISTURBING look at specific, real-life parasites (like a biology lesson) will be waiting for you at EVERY OTHER CHAPTER..
having nothing to do with the story at all.
I really liked the Uglies/Pretties/Specials series by Scott Westerfeld.
Please, if you're thinking about reading it: Don't.
Unless you like non-fictional tales of the lives of parasites - yes that's right, worms, rats, diseases, pestulance, plague, more worms, blood borne disgustingness, and monkey-worms.
Maybe boys would like this book...
A great vampire story. But, the best part of this book is the chapters that detail the disgusting lives of parasites. Want to gross someone out, just read one of those chapters. Truly, they make this book.
Humans who have the parasite, but not the symptoms, are carriers who track down the "Parasite-positives," or "peeps" and get them contained and medical help.What was particularly fascinating, though, was that every other chapter gave factual information about real-life parasites and their relationships with their hosts.
These chapters were very short, but they were relevant to the plot of the book and gave very reader-friendly (and freakish) information about these parasites.
Unless your character is a surfing pothead who only has enough brain cells left to recall that one word, I think you should probably steer clear of "dude" altogether.
It's funny, intriguing, gross, original and fun.Here's why.Cal, who is an awesome narrator talks to the reader in a personable way, even mentioning pages and reading, etc.
(A little too much, perhaps?) All other Scott Westerfeld books I've read are in third person, but this is in first (which made it better)It's intriguing because the twists weren't mind blowing but the story progressed in a mercifully logical way- it made sense that things happened when they did.
Because this is not abut Vampires in the corny twilight way, or even in the more sic-fi sense.
January 19, 2009Parasitology, vampires, cats, this book couldn't be any more appealing to me if it had zombie penguins.
Kat Warren, this book is calling you.January 12, 2015As with so many other of my recent rereads, I liked this even better this time around.
I wonder if that should be credited to nostalgia, or more to this time I picked it up knowing exactly what sort of reading experience it would be, and that's why I chose it now?
Another thing that fascinates me is that I so often decide to reread a book in the same month I originally read it.
Are some things "January books" in a way I don't consciously perceive?Library copy
This is probably one of Scott Westerfeld's weirdest and creepiest books, which takes place in a futuristic world where everyone is turning into vampire/zombie creatures. Although a little gross and bizarre at some points, it is overall a good story. If you like Scott Westerfeld, this book will not be a disappointment.
Peeps wasn't bad but I really didn't care much for the main characters or the unoriginality of the plot. It's all been done before in similar ways, so this book was nothing new or special.
I enjoyed this book very much, and didn't get why everyone said it was so creepy
This too was surprisingly good. I‘m in good graces with the 1€ store gods! Was debating between 3,5 and 4 stars but I‘m in a good mood so I‘m rounding up. ;)
He speaks like a nineteen year old, gets annoyed when people at the Night Watch give him the nickname of "kid" and is self-conscious around girls (even with the parasite putting his hormones in overdrive.) One of his first meetings with Lacey, he thinks that she might be "too old" for him (even though he knows he can't date her because that would be spreading the disease.) Watching combat his constant horniness is hilarious.
They are the immune system for the human race, thus tying even the Peeps back into the parasite/immune system metaphor that Westerfeld creates throughout the book.
I think the author should have played on his weakness of suddenly feeling like he could love, but never touch, or work on Cal's anger for having this parasite.
I think the Author was more focused on the parasites ruling over the people in the books and dictating their lives.
The way Lace and Cal interacted was uninteresting, I usually like when two people get together because the book has that sort of spark, as if they were living people who you knew had to be together.
Zwar war es ab und an doch ein wenig ekelerregend zu hören, wie irgendwelche Parasiten, die Augen von Schlangen zerfressen, damit sie schön blutig sind, aber ich habe wirklich was über Parasiten, Krankheiten und Evolution gelernt und das hat mir echt gut gefallen.
Der zweite Band ist hier also nicht so aufgezwungen wie das durch Cliffhanger manchmal passieren kann.Für mich sowohl besser als die Midnighters- als auch als die Ugliesreihe und damit bisher das beste, was ich von Scott Westerfeld gelesen habe!
Peeps is AWESOME with a capital A. Having it set in NY was good enough, but teen vampires? My first time reading a vampire book and I want to sink my teeth into another!
In PEEPS, Scott Westerfeld takes the vampirism-as-disease trope to a whole new level.Cal came to New York for college and adventure.
They aren't so lucky - they've got the full-blown disease and have turned into savage cannibals.But things aren't quite right in the world of the parasite-positives (aka PEEPS).
Cal has to figure out who his allies are, and what is the truth about his parasite quickly - because the Apocalypse is on its way.PEEPS is fast and streamlined.
Parasites have saved the world, and they will again.
