https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/776212.Tuf_Voyaging
This is a very odd George RR Martin book that I picked up randomly.
It's almost serialized into 5 parts, but holds together nicely as a book.
It's about a very odd trader who basically gets possession of the most powerful ship in the galaxy, and how he uses it to help people.
And underneath the stories there are VERY powerful environmental and animal rights messages, it's kind of amazing and dark and has an amazing sense of humor.
Definitely a really fun ride, I have to check if he wrote any more with the character, because I can see a ton more happening when you're in charge of basically a God-Vessel!
Tuf is a former space-trader who, after agreeing to ferry a motley and untrustworthy crew to the archeological discovery of a lifetime, finds himself in control of the most powerful ship in the universe - the last seedship of the long-lost Ecological Engineer Corps.
And therein lies the problem.The point of Tuf is that he's supposed to not be the standard space-opera hero.
There's never any conflict or sense of real threat; every time a problem arises, he just pulls yet another miracle out of the seedship.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.The-George-R-R-Martin-that-also-wrote-stuff-other-than-the-famigerated-GoT: “Tuf Voyaging” by George R.
I will drink my wine and remember how that sea sounded when I was but a Budakhar boy who dreamed of stars, and when the wine is gone I will use the flamer.(Long silence)I can think of no more words to say.
. .(Short pause)If this is found after the plague star has waned, as the night-hunters say it will, do not be deceived.
The plague star will shine again.(Long silence)My wine is gone.(End of recording)”In “Tuf Voyaging” by George R.
Due to a combination of ingenuity and luck, Tuf ends up the sole owner of the ship, and sets himself up as an Ecological Engineer, available for hire to fix any sort of planetary problem.Although he has a variety of comissions and adventures, he keeps getting called back to the planet of S'uthlam, a place (over)populated by a 'nice' but religious people who believe it is their manifest destiny to breed as much as possible.
More than anything else I've read lately, I keep finding myself talking about this book to other people.
It's basically a collection of short stories, all focused on a space traveller named Tuf. He is a vegetarian, he lives with several cats, and he has a giant bio-engineering spaceship that can clone any kind of life form and grow it in a matter of hours.
It's an interesting look at a world which embraces reproduction against all common sense, and I especially liked Tuf's final solution to their problem.
Other stories range from 'good' to 'meh', but overall, it's a strong book, and a lot of fun if you're a fan of space-travelling adventures.
"The sad truth of history has always been that the unreasoning masses follow the powerful, and not the wise."   First things first. Όσοι περιμένουν κάτι παρόμοιο με το GoT θα απογοητεύτουν. Καμία σχέση, εκτός ίσως από την μία κάποια ωμότητα και το φοβερό χιούμορ. Ο Ταφ λοιπόν είναι ένας γατόφιλος, χορτοφάγος, φίλος του καλού φαγητού και της μπύρας -και γενικά πολύ περίεργο και ενδιαφέρον τυπάκι- πρώην έμπορος που βρέθηκε να είναι ο ιδιοκτήτης και χειριστής ενός τεράστιου και πανίσχυρου διαστη
Καμία σχέση, εκτός ίσως από την μία κάποια ωμότητα και το φοβερό χιούμορ.
Παρέα με τις γάτες του ταξιδεύει στον γαλαξία προσφέροντας τις υπηρεσίες του όπου τις χρειάζονται, αλλά όχι πάντα με τον τρόπο που αναμένεται.
Το βιβλίο είναι χωρισμένο σε τμήματα, κάθε τμήμα και διαφορετικό ταξίδι, αλλά σχεδόν όλα συνδέονται μεταξύ τους.
Με έξυπνο τρόπο θίγει οικολογικά ζητήματα, τα δικαιώματα των ζώων, τον υπερπληθυσμό, την ανθρώπινη ηθική, το πολιτικό σκηνικό.
Σε κάποια σημεία πλατειάζει αλλά γενικά είναι ένα "ευχάριστο" ανάγνωσμα.
Qué alegría volver a leer a tito Martín.El libro muy chuli por cierto. (Review de calidad ante todo)
First read: 2002Maybe I am biased, loving Martin's work as much as I do, but Tuf Voyaging is a real treat.
It's about a sarcastic lover-of-cats who comes into possession of an old Earth Imperial seedship of the Ecological Engineering Corps, and turns himself into an "ecological engineer." The dialogue in this book is priceless--Haviland Tuf takes everything very literally, and responds with gravity and sarcasm that makes me laugh out loud.
I've read quite a lot of Martin's work, but other than his ASOIAF universe (including the Hedge Knight series, which is a must read for anyone who is a fan of ASOIAF), and the short story Sandkings, not too much has made a great impression.
More a novel in an unusual format than it is a short story collection, as it's touted, centering around the bizarre and enigmatic Haviland Tuf. I love the sense of humor, which remains evenly subtle, and the change in Tuf works very well, from big-hearted do-gooder to the Lord God Himself (as he himself declares in the second to last story, one of my favorites in the book), Tuf shows that there is no such thing as the incorruptible man (and the dangers of holding not only such dangerous and advanced technology, but separation from humanity, first bodily, and then in attitude and spirit.) The stories are uneven, and while I was happy to see Tolly Mune reappear a couple of times, I preferred the individual tales; I felt more as if the ones that advanced the overall arc were too talky about the ideas of the story, too expository.
Puede alguien convertirse en dios? Debería alguien tomar las decisiones por todos los que no toman una decisión importante? Demasiadas preguntas que siempre vuelven a una misma base.

It looks like a morality tale about the stupidity of mankind.(Spoiler: the people of S'uthlam would be much better off if they stopped reproducing uncontrolledly, the people of Lyronica are just greedy, the people of Namor behave in the usual human colonialist way and just eat the locals without ever wondering if they might be sentient...etc)Nevertheless, the stories are fun to read.
Also, Tuf's arrogance and sarcasm are just fun to read.
At least, he's nice to his cats, who count as secondary characters in many stories.All in all, a good read for a GRRM fan :)8/10
☆4.75/5☆▪Plot 5/5▪Details 4.5/5▪Characters 5/5▪World building 5/5▪Logic 4.75/5▪Writing style 5/5▪Enjoyment 5/5My very first real sci-fi. I am so glad I have picked it up. The world building is f-a-n-t-a-s-t-i-c, all the characters are insanely interesting. Gosh, I recommend it to everyone! Spoiler: You are going to enjoy it
If you haven't tried "Tuf Voyaging," you really should. 1986, fixup of earlier stories. Haviland Tuf is an "honest space-trader who likes cats." And quite a character, and quite a setup. I've read it twice, both times with pleasure. Hasn't dated a bit. 4+ stars. And here's a full-size scan of the gloriously lurid Baen cover: http://www.isfdb.org/wiki/images/d/dd... Cats in Spaaace! Art by David Willson.The reliable Althea Ann has an excellent review: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...This was published long before GRRM became a celebrity. He was just another toiler in SF/F's midlists then....
Maloniai nustebino. Galima skaityti tiesiog kaip fantastiką, bet galima pamėginti paspėlioti, ką autorius iš realybės paėmė, kad fantastika paverstų. Skaičiau antruoju būdu. Buvo smagu. 4,4*. Kačių šūstrumas - persūdytas. Mielas mano katine, jei skaitai šitą sakinį, atsiprašau, Tu - nuostabus! :) Ir dar nesupratau, kodėl kas kurį laiką knygoje vis reikia paminėti, kad Tafas dėvėjo žalią kepuraitę su tokiu tai simboliu ant jos priekio, reiškiančiu tą ir aną (visąlaik tą pačią sumautą kepuraitę). Bet šiaip tai labai gerai, turint omeny, kad aš SF ir pan. neskaitau visai.
In sfarsit o carte sf foarte buna. Nici nu se poate "compara" cu multele carti superpremiate din ultimii ani.
3.0   "El blanco es el color de la pureza y la estrella está purificando este lugar. Y,sin embargo, a su contacto todo se corrompe y muere."   ¡Atención! No leáis la sinopsis del libro pues contiene spoilers. Nos encontramos ante siete relatos en los que nos cuentan algunas aventuras de Tuf, un mercader que por unas razones o por otras terminará trabajando en una profesión muy especial, que por varias razones no puedo desvelar porque sino os haría spoiler del primer relato.Mis notas de cada rel
en gran medida.La parte que me ha encantado ha sido Tuf, los gatos y Tolly Mune.Tuf es un grandote sarcástico , inteligente y de buen corazón que ama los gatos, la cerveza y las setas comestibles.
El personaje está muy bien construido y ha sido él el que en gran medida, ha salvado todos las imperfecciones del libro.
Tolly Mune, una mujer bastante importante a lo largo del libro también me ha gustado.
"Su nombre era Tolly Mune, pero en los libros de historia ha recibido muchos nombres distintos"."Mirenos, Tuf. Somos una pareja más bien improbable de amantes que se encontraron entre las estrellas.
I don't read it as often as LOTR but when I do it is always a pleasure.Haviland Tuf is a wandering trader of the spacelanes in the tradition of Star Trek's Cryano Jones.
Like Jones, he isn't very good at his job --- he barely gets by.
What they find not only ends the lives that they once had --- in most cases, quite literally --- but launches Tuf on a new career.I will say no more but let you discover it all to your own great pleasure.Martin is at his very best in this book.
Me ha gustado mucho el personaje que Martin ha creado, con muchos matices, nada convencional y más profundo de lo que a simple vista parece.
Algo que sin duda destacaría de él es su manera de hablar, que sin pretenderlo me ha hecho reír múltiples veces.
Es cierto que, excepto en el primer "episodio", continúa usando el mismo patrón (intro, nudo y desenlace) en la que Tuf resuelve un problema.
Aún así creo que todo el tema de la genética y la ecología está tratado de una manera más que satisfactorio (avalado por una amiga bióloga xD) y que sin saber del tema te enteras.
За да бъде по-хубава, тази фантастика трябваше да е клише. Няма любовни истории, красиви жени и мъжествени мъже. Има един плешив шишко, който се мисли за бог.Тъф попада на кораб, с който може да променя екосистеми, и започва да го прави. От там нататък всичко е въпрос на невероятното му въображение.
Menudo coñazo, no veía la hora de terminarlo
This book has a real identity problem, and I struggled with it throughout. Charming as Tuf can be, I don’t like him, and I disagree with him on a number of issues, not least of which his thoughts on cats. This was a book, and I read it. It wasn’t bad but I don’t really think I liked it either? And yet I can’t give it less than 4 stars. Make of that what you will.
Чудесно произведение, ако не броим някои чисто стилистични похвати (стига да не съм объркала този термин xD). И пак ще повторя - актуално!http://knigoqdec.blogspot.com/2018/06...
The plot is fairly predictable, even when it thinks it's being clever.
Fortunately, most of them do.From there, we have a series of episodes in which Tuf rolls into orbit, the natives have a problem, and he solves the problem in a way such that the natives get what they deserve but not what they want.
But they're very much in an older mode of science fiction in which the protagonist calmly and reasonably mansplains to the hysterical people why they are stupid and wrong.
Some of the plots are vaguely clever, but usually in a fairly predictable way.
They're competent enough, but just...eh.Basically, if you loved Game of Thrones and want more...don't bother with this book.
Other than the first chapter/story, all others had an identical pattern: Tuf encounters a planet with a great ecological problem (of quite a simple kind though), Tuf resolves to solve the problem as if on a whim, the planet causes difficulties, Tuf outwits/humiliates them and solves the problem in his own way.2)Lack of character.
Well, maybe Tuf, in a negative way - in the end I couldn't stand his supposedly cool rationality-as-an-infinitely-morally-better-substitute-for-passion-and-vitality.3)Superficial ethical reasoning.
Whilst this book does not follow the path of his most famous series (A Song of Ice and Fire) it is a great book for any of his fans or anyone who simply loves a good sci-fi book.The book follows the life of Tuf across a number of years from when he comes into possession of the last working seedship.
One thing I will say is that the population addicted to procreation wasn’t as funny as I had imagined (it wasn’t really what I imagined at all) but their reoccurring troubles certainly keeps you entertained throughout.As I said, it’s a great book which any Martin or sci-fi fan should read!
One other thing I appreciate about Tuf Voyaging is that it underlines that Martin is just as comfortably writhing short stories as he is writing huge fantasy novels.
Martin is a versatile writer, capable of writing more then fantasy novels alone.
As much as I like A Song of Ice and Fire, I still think Martin's best work is in his short fiction and Tuf is one example of that.
Don't approach it as a novel and don't expect epic fantasy and you might just end up liking what Martin has done here.Full Random Comments review
3,5/5Quería leer la ciencia ficción de Martin, y me pareció que Los viajes de Tuf era una buena forma de empezar.El libro es un conjunto de siete relatos en los que cada uno de ellos narra una aventura de este ser humano tan peculiar, que carece completamente de vello corporal, es tremendamente alto y corpulento, tiene una forma de hablar excesivamente pomposa (algunos lo tacharían de pedante) y adora a los gatos.Sí, es un libro lleno de gatos.
En todos los relatos, los gatos tienen importancia de una manera u otra, y hará las delicias de los amantes de los felinos.Creo que no puedo elegir un relato favorito, porque todos tienen su encanto, y Martin sabe cómo engancharte y mantener la intriga de cómo resolverá Tuf tal o cual situación.
Es decir, imaginaos que tenéis el poder de Dios.Pues esto es lo que le pasa a nuestro humilde protagonista de la novela, Haviland Tuf. En la que se narra la forma en la que adquiere el citado artefacto (ya os adelanto que es espectacular) y como decide utilizarlo en los distintos mundos a los que ofrece sus servicios.Un libro que refleja la esencia del mas puro Martin.
Y en el que destaca por encima de todos ellos nuestro Haviland Tuf. Mercader de saldos, amante de los gatos y honrado hasta rozar el ridículo.Una novela que te engancha desde la primera página y no te suelta hasta la última.Si te gusta el estilo de Martin, este libro te va a encantar.
Infatti, pur coprendo un raggio temporale davvero molto ampio, i racconti, anche quelli più "vecchi", hanno lo stesso stile e la stessa capacità narrativa di quelli più recenti.Alla fin fine, è come se il libro fosse un unicum, in cui i racconti non sono altro che capitoli molto lunghi.Comunque, una cosa da tener presente: sebbene ben realizzato e coerente, data la struttura del racconto, si procede comunque per singoli episodi (nonostante una parte del viaggio ritorni per ben tre volte), quindi, se decidi di leggerlo, assicurati prima che lo schema della raccolta di racconti faccia per te.I racconti in questione sono:- La stella del morbo;- Pane e pesci;- Guardiani;- Fare il bis; - Una bestia per Norn;- Chiamatelo Mosé;- Manna;preceduti da un prologo che introduce le storie e le leggende su questa misteriosa e dannatamente precisa stella del morbo alias mega-nave da battaglia.Infatti, ogni tre generazioni, quando la vita su Hro b'rana sta ricominciando a crescere a livello demografico, culturale, militare, ect., la stella brilla inspiegabilmente in cielo portando pestilenze, miasmi e morte.
