https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/168350.In_Dreams_Begin_Responsibilities_and_Other_Stories
After all, he must be alive in order to have the dream.Nevertheless, his protest attracts the attention of the usher, who admonishes him:"...you can't carry on like this, it is not right, you will find that out soon enough, everything you do matters too much..."Enter a Free and Responsible BeingIn the process of being expelled from the theatre, he awakes on the morning of his 21st birthday.He is now officially an adult.
From Schwartz's novella, The World is a Wedding, this clarification of an artist's purpose:[...] now that I cannot compose new works, I see for the first time, as if this were the first morning of my life, that there is only one reason to write poems: the only reason to write poems is for the sake of the activity of the whole being which one enjoys when one writes poems.
The story ultimately turns into an argument for the necessity of artistic failures:"The fault is not this desire for things," said Jacob, "but the way in which the motive of competition is made the chief motive of life, encouraged everywhere.
My obit for Lou Reed gives Delmore a shout-out and gives the title story some particular love: http://www.themillions.com/2013/11/lo...
Title story was- and is- immortal.
Very disappointing, since I love his poetry and there just seems to be more legend than masterpieces for poor Delmore.
Did he drink his talent away?
Did he rant it away?
Is there less of his work for us to enjoy and appreciate as a result?
Just read the startlingly contemporary title story and appreciate all there was to lose.
4.5/5
A great collection of short stories.
I first heard of Schwartz because I'm a big fan of the Velvet Underground.
Lou Reed was taught by Schwartz in college and he was the biggest inspiration Reed had as a young man.
I then found out that he was an influence in later Jewish American writers like Philip Roth and Saul Bellow, he was written about by John Berryman in the Dream Songs and Bellow's Humboldt's Gift was based on him.
He's clearly a pretty serious cult writer.
The stories are very good.
They are obviously Kafka influenced but they are more realistic and less fabulist.
I'll temper this rating by saying I only read the first/title story in this collection and the final one, "Screeno", to get a taste.
Both stories are about movies and the act of going to the movies and the act of action and a general theory of projections and a confounding of dreams and not-dreams and how the fabric of our self-understanding is a dense plaid woven of all these things.
And in both stories I read, the fabric rips and no matter how good you think you might be at sewing, you can always see exactly where the seam broke.
Never, never, never be disappointed by what Nabokov recommends.

The title story is a forgotten gem - simple in the telling, but prompting all kinds of philosophical reality/imagination specualtion.
We're used to the metaphor now that life can be like a movie: Schwartz came up with it before anyone else I know.
Some of the other stories took longer to make an impression on me.
However, 'America!
America!' subtly probes different perspectives and the nature of Jewish immigrant experience in early twentieth century America and the satire of 'The World Is A Wedding' suggests to me that Schwartz is a much funnier writer than he is often given credit for.
The wickedness of delusion and pastoral dreamscapes intersect with the beating heart of the young person's desire to make yr own way, the spirit of seeing the world through two wide-open eyes and a dash of hope for a world more tolerant. I always come back to the stories contained herein. Why? Just because.
"The world is a marriage of convenience," said Laura drunkenly, "the world is a shot-gun marriage. The world is a sordid match for money. The world is a misalliance. Every birthday is a funeral and every funeral is a great relief."File under: the way you want to imagine America.
If you like J.D.'s Nine Stories, I suspect you'll enjoy these. How did these stories get lost in the shuffle?
My father thinks of my mother.
So far burn full painful. Done reading. tears...
this guy's writing was really dull. he wasn't an untalented writer, but he manages to write such flat and uninteresting stories. the eponymous story is rather good. i read another, maybe later, collection of works and liked it, but not this volume. it's too bad he never found any happiness.
I’d read this some years ago based on Lou Reed comments. Schwartz was a Professor and mentor to Reed and later a paranoid friend — he was a great poet.
Excellent depiction of the times, and the inner minds and thinking of his characters. Totally spot on!
Crisp
It was just kind of bland
The dashed dreams of second-generation Jewish immigrants during the Great Depression. Interesting parallels to and differences from today.
Usually it could be construed as a compliment to say that you would like to meet an author in person, but you wouldn't want to get near Schwartz with a ten-foot pole for fear of him dismantling all your defenses, leaving you a blubbering, snotty mess when he broke down your personality into mechanisms you depend on to deal with the ugly reality of your childhood with a family that was secretly completely dysfunctional and after which you aren't able to engage in any healthy adult relationships.
It was amusing, the twist in the devices, putting a scene inside another one, the fears of a young man that were really well presented, and how the parents can have quite a huge impact on our lives.
I really want to like this collection of short stories because I like Schwartz's poetry and so does Lou Reed.
Even Reed's intro is about the man's poems and tragic biography, not really the stories.
Another intro and afterword try to point away from the misspent life (Maybe a Schwartz biography including some of this best poems would be best) and argue how impactful these stories were in the '30s.
But now as I get older I see that life really resembles the stories of Fyodor Dostoyevsky."and from "New Year's Eve" on inviting people to parties:"Since both of them were intellectuals, both resorted to theories about the nature of a party and about each other's characters.
In what is purported to be thinly disguised autobiography, Schwartz develops a fascinating assortment of characters, many the children of immigrants who have social, political, cultural and financial goals that are vastly different than their parents' interpretations of the "American Dream." Here we see world views that are more than worlds apart.
More cerebral and psychological than sensual, Schwartz's style blends these starkly real portraits with surreal, dreamlike passages that seem to signal the transition from the Modernist to the Post Modernist movements in American literature.
I'm not sure what's included in the curriculum for American Literature in our universities, but I'm convinced that Delmore Schwartz should be included with the greats in Twentieth Century American prose.

These stories are filled with lazy men living with their parents, mooching as long as possible until their overly generous mother dies, or an irate sibling punches them repeatedly.
It's not to say that every 25-year-old living with her parents is lazy - the economic realities then and now make it a sound choice.
But it's the dynamic of parallel generations of spoiled kids and spoiling parents that is striking - I'm curious to see how the Great Recession of 2008 impacts the next generation, and their priorities and work ethic.
maybe Delmore Schwartz was not the right author to read as I got ready for a family reunion but I can see why he is so highly regarded.In his tales, America, the city, and the family are expansive yet narrow, limitless yet stifling.
Schwartz writes about the emotional distance between immigrant Jewish parents and their children, the complexities of identity, and the sheer ridiculousness and futility of human existence.
The precision of his prose and the alienation in his tales can make the heart feel hollow so I only read 'In Dreams Begin Responsibilities', 'America!
America!', and 'The Commencement Day Address.'
Just delved into this collection of short stories. Steve Seidel, director of Project Zero at Harvard, mentioned the title story in a lecture I recently heard him give, and it piqued my interest. Not sure anyone reads Schwartz much anymore, but the first story in the collection, the title story, was and interesting, surreal depiction of a man dreaming about his parents' courtship. I'm still working on theories about how the story relates to the title. More on this one later.
This is a collection of short stories written about 1930s New York. Many of the characters are Jewish or middle class and often are simple stories about families, young people trying to figure out what to do with themselves post-college, or random somewhat surreal stories. I found out about this book through the "Rough Guide to Cult Fiction" and think it makes a good addition to my growing amount of short story collections.
The short story from where the book's title is taken is, hands-down, the best one in the whole collection. While the stories might have interested me more if they were to stand alone or be part of a collection from a diverse group of authors, seeing them all together was fairly boring since they all seemed to rehash the same concepts and same types of characters. In fact, the collection grew so tedious that I had to take a break from it and read something else before finishing it.
