https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/252268.Blue_Hat_Green_Hat
Oh Wow! The way she has written 'OOPS!' :D :D
The problems we all face when picking out what to wear! Young children will enjoy this funny look at trying to find just the right clothes.
Once my kid was old enough to get the joke, he literally fell off the bed laughing.
Not my favorite Boynton book (and I am a HUGE fan) but I love how this book grows with your child. First you can just read the simple words. Then you can point out the colors. Then you can talk about what kind of animals are in the pictures. Then you can describe on what part of the body each animal is wearing the items of clothing. The boy thinks the last page is hilarious, even though he's much too young to actually get the humor. I'm still not sure what he's laughing at.
This is my 10-month-old's favorite book! He laughs out loud at the jokes! Such a joy to read this with him. To any mamas and papas out there: Everything by Sandra Boynton is brilliant.
"A wonderful little book for toddlers and also for the learning disabled. Not only is the dialogue very brief, but the portrayal of a turkey who cannot dress himself properly according to common sense or general social rules hits a chord with those who have trouble assessing social relationships. To toddlers, it's just funny and cute to see a turkey who can't figure out that his shoes go on his feet and that when jumping in the pool he shouldn't be fully dressed in street clothes."
It was amazing because it was the first book that my son laughed (his head off) at and was interested in.
I actually think Karanina is the first person I read this book over and over to. It is a fantastic read aloud, short and goofy.
It's cute; I'll give it that. But something in me cannot help but be offended by the sheer stupidity of the Turkey character. As an avid learner of dressing oneself, I was unamused.
One of our favorites from years gone by. Giving it to friends for a baby shower, so I re-read it to my "kids" who just arrived home from college. #oldtimes!
This is a great book for bilingual storytime!
I read it in Spanish and pointed to the articles of clothing as I read, and translated as I went.
I asked the kids to help me translate to English too: "Azul el sombrero...
Azul is blue in Spanish." Or I'd ask, "Who is wearing the yellow pants?
El elefante lleva los pantalones amarillos."This book is great for teaching colors and articles of clothing.
The turkey puts the clothes on all the wrong parts of its body, and it's fun to ask the kids where the turkey is wearing its clothes and where they really belong!
I love Sandra Boynton books!
Blue Hat, Green Hat fits the Boynton mold that I have come to know and love.
For instance, the elephant wears a blue hat, the moose wears a green hat, the bear wears a red hat...and then the silliness, the turkey is standing on his yellow hat!
The text reads, "Blue hat, green hat, red hat, oops." The turkey wears his clothing in interesting ways all through the story, until the very last page when he figures out how to put everything on...but, then he jumps in a pool!
Blue Hat, Green Hat is a great children's picture book, written and illustrated by Sandra Boynton.
The book is a great pattern book for young children.
It is a simple and silly book that teaches a great lesson to a young reader about patterns.
The illustrations were great, and colorfully created!
This book would be an appropriate pre-kindergarten to Kindergarten book.
As a teacher, it could be used to teach a great lesson about not only patterns and predictability, but about colors.
Overall, I thought that the book offered a great way to teach about patterns in a fun and interesting way to a child!
Her favorite joke involves putting something unlikely on her head and asking innocently, "Hat?" So when she saw Blue Hat, Green Hat by Sandra Boynton at the library, she had to check it out.With many of Boynton's books, there is an animal who just doesn't fit in.
In the case of Blue Hat, Green Hat, that animal is a turkey.
He tries but somehow things never seem to end up on him correctly.Besides being a charming story about the troubles of learning how to get dressed (or prop comedy 101 for preschoolers), the book teaches colors, animals, parts of the body and clothing.
We routinely dress ourselves wrong in this house as a way to cajole the kids into dressing properly (hey, whatever works, right?), so this book was right up our alley when the nieces were younger.Every page has every animal putting on a different type of clothes correctly - except the turkey. Oops.Eventually he's correctly dressed (purple socks!) - just in time to jump in a pool. Oops!Hysteria for the toddler crowd.At 5 and 2.5, the nieces are rapidly outgrowing this book, but I love it so much still that I'm reluctant to give it away just yet.
When my sister was pregnant I bought a bunch of books for my niece. I liked the Sandra Boynton books for several reasons:1. Being board books they would stand up to kid handling a bit. 2. They are timeless3. The simple clear illustrations make it easy for young kids to see clearly as their eyes develop further4. They are fun and sillyMost of them have the added bonus of introducing concepts like color or differences, or size. I and my sister and now nieces have all enjoyed the books a lot.
Sandra Boynton, Blue Hat, Green Hat (Simon and Schuster, 1984)Another chronically-cute Boynton book, this one focused on color recognition and clothing, but featuring a turkey who simply can't get anything right (and the refrain “oops!” whenever he's featured). Unilke most books aimed at the preschool set, though, this one's building up to an actual punchline, and I actually laughed out loud the first time I read it to the kid; probably my favorite of its type since Emily Gravett's Wolves. Good stuff, this. ****
For a board book, I found this very amusing! The pictures are simple and fun without a lot of fuss, perfectly appropriate to tiny audiences. It focuses on teaching colours and clothing pieces, while combining them with the irresistible humour of watching the turkey wear the clothes the wrong way. This would make a good library check out or gift to a young child. The concept is so simple, but rarely do you see board books that do all these things without presenting the baby with too much information.
With many of Boynton's books, there is an animal who just doesn't fit in. In the case of Blue Hat, Green Hat, that animal is a turkey. All the other animals can get themselves dressed but not the turkey. He tries but somehow things never seem to end up on him correctly. Besides being a charming story about the troubles of learning how to get dressed (or prop comedy 101 for preschoolers), the book teaches colors, animals, parts of the body and clothing. It's charming and very funny. Great for unison-reads.
My kids just love the silliness of this book. On each page, an elephant, a moose, a bear, and a turkey put on an article of clothing (same item, different color). The turkey cant seem to get it right. My kids love the silly voice I use to say "oops" when the turkey goofs up.This is a funny/silly way to teach about colors and clothes, and that we dont always get it right!
All of Sandra Boynton books are such great buys for little kids! No matter which one you decide to buy. Red hat, green hat is no exception. It's a fun way of learning colors and even getting your first little lesson on clothes! These animals are silly and all these books will make you smile.
Another ball hit out of the park by Sandra Boynton! She really knows how to do silly right. My little one is only a few months old and seemed to enjoy this; I can't imagine how much more joy he'll get from it once he's old enough to realize that the turkey has put the clothing on all wrong! :)
This is one of my favorite books for new readers! The words are short, but the plot is funny! Most early phonics books are so boring. This book, and many others of Boynton’s books, are easy enough for young kids to read aloud and fun enough for them to want to read aloud!
Boynton's book on the Avant Garde fashion world is a stunning read. The narrative tension when turkey finally learns to avoid the "oops" of modern fashion, but then decides to take a dive in a swimming pool – a brilliant twist!
The pictures were cute and I liked the concept, but this isn't my favorite from Boynton. I don't think there's a problem with the writing or flow of the book though. In the "oops" moment you'll want to stop talk about what's wrong about that picture.
My grandchildren and I LOVE this book! Silly turkey - he just doesn't understand the "proper"way to put on clothes. The kids loved it and the illustrations are simple, colorful, and fun! 5-stars!
The turkey omg the turkey.
Cute book but not our favorite Boynton. Typical adorable illustrations and my kids had fun guessing what the turkey would do next. Nice short book for babies or very beginner readers.
Amuse yourself while trying to teach your child basic colors and types of clothing.
Read to my son at one month and ten days old. He started crying frantically at the page with the shoes. I think it reminded him that he does not yet own a pair.
