https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/845485.Downward_to_the_Earth
Apocalypse Now, Francis Ford Coppola’s brilliant Vietnam War retelling of Conrad’s work was first released eighty years later in 1979.Ten years before Coppola and seventy years after Conrad, Robert Silverberg published Downward to the Earth, his superlative tribute to Heart of Darkness.Gunderson, akin to Marlowe and Coppola’s Willard, has returned to an alien planet “station” after that planet has been returned to its natives and Gunderson is haunted by his time there and especially of the memory of Kurtz.
Rarely given to comic relief anyway, Downward to the Earth is one of Silverberg’s more sober works.
our hero, former colonial station chief, returns to this strange planet much changed.
the planet itself has changed: its residents no longer considered mere animals, beasts of burden to be used as humans see fit...
and a powerful theme running through it all: to truly understand others is to truly understand yourself; one cannot be accomplished without the other.there are shades of Heart of Darkness here (even including a character named "Kurtz"), except turned inside-out: the darkness within man made almost inconsequential; darkness made light.
i was also reminded of tales of colonial India (even including an alien character named "Srin'gahar"), the misdeeds and the culture clash and the ugliness and the beauty.
This book is absolutely brilliant - it represents the best of late 1960s New Wave SF, and the best of Robert Silverberg, so what more do you need to know?
Normally I would sit down and write a pretty gushing review of how well it is written and what aspects of the story really resonated with me.
But since two of my colleagues at Fantasy Literature have already written stellar and comprehensive reviews covering all the points I would have made, I recommend you read their reviews instead:Kat Hooper's review:http://www.fantasyliterature.com/revi...Sandy Ferber's review:http://www.fantasyliterature.com/revi...I listened to the audiobook narrated by Bronson Pinchot (you know, the guy who played Balki Bartokomous in the sitcom Perfect Strangers in a long-lost universe far, far away), and he is brilliant.
Go out and listen to it now.
Tako je glavni lik Gunderson, reprezentativan primjer čovjeka žustre mladosti i grješne prošlosti, te korporacijske indoktriniranosti.
Nakon što su Zemljani shvatili da na planetu Belzagoru, postoje čak dvije inteligentne vrste (više inteligentni NILDORORI - koji liče po svoj vanjštini slonovima, i SULDORORI niže inteligentna biće prekrivena krznom i hodaju na dvije noge) odlučili su napustiti planet i sve što su sa sobom donijeli tijekom pokušaja kolonizacije.
Kroz svoje putavanje po planetu postaje mu jasno da Nildorori i Suldorori čuvaju veliku tajnu svog bitka i da su sve samo ne puke zvijeri kakvim ih je smatrao dok je bio jedan od kolonizatora.
Up until last week, I hadn't read Robert Silverberg's brilliant sci-fi novel "Downward to the Earth" in almost 27 years, but one scene remained as fresh in my memory as on my initial perusal: the one in which the book's protagonist, Edmund Gundersen, comes across a man and a woman lying on the floor of a deserted Company station on a distant world, their still-living bodies covered in alien fluid that is being dripped upon them by a basket-shaped organism, whilst they themselves act as gestating hosts to some parasitic larvae.
Along the way, he encounters the beauty and the terror of that wild planet, learns more about the species that inhabit it, and begins to fully realize the evil he committed there.If this sounds a little familiar, that’s because Robert Silverberg’s Downward to the Earth (1970) is his tribute to Joseph Conrad’s Heart of Darkness (1902), which explored the Belgians’ cruel colonization of the Congo.
I have to say that I think this is one of his better efforts and certainly better than "Tower of Glass".Silverberg also tells us how it was inspired by Rudyard Kipling and Joseph Conrad's Heart of Darkness as well as his own trip to Africa.
It certainly feels very much of its time, both thematically and also because the conclusions reached at the end probably won't seem so startling and original as they might have done once.But still, a solid effort and a must read for all fans Silverberg fans.
We are not separate from our environments, a point so often lost in the American personal-responsibility-self-help-bootstrap cultural cry for help.
A powerful emotional experience in a setting that feels truly alien.
Beware you who stare at the alien, the alien stares at you.
Ever think you pulled a turd from the free box, then you dust it off and find a gem?
This slow boiler nearly got abandoned.
Stick with it, you'll be glad you did.(view spoiler)[Ignorance is not bliss.
A planet that couldn't be truly understood or conquered was new and powerful for me.
Once I got past the first twenty-five pages, it was magic.
(hide spoiler)]
Elephant-people, misunderstood as beasts by the human empire; homages to colonialist fiction – Kipling & Conrad; an ex-oppressor’s journey out of darkness, into a slightly psychedelic light and the breakdown of species-barriers or perhaps the notion of species. Silverberg has an ear for music in his conjunction of words. Exactly why I read SF.
This book is apparently based on Heart of Darkness by Joseph Conrad and, in a way, Gulliver's Travels by Jonathan Swift.The title comes from a quote from Ecclesiastes:Who knoweth the spirit of man that goeth upward, and the spirit of the beast that goeth downward to the earth?ECCLESIASTES 3:21----------The main character, Gundersen, travels back to the jungle planet (Holman's World, as it was named by man, although its original name was Belzagor) on which he, 8 years ago, had the task to prepare it for human settlement, to colonise it.
Like, dude, you've stayed ten years on that planet, surely you know that you need to prepare when moving out?
First off: can there be any other book covers as ugly as those in the reissued SF Masterworks series?
The highlighter-pen pallet, the literal depictions of scenes from the novels, all so very clumsily composed.
For a book that draws from such a wealth of literary influences, Downward to the Earth is a remarkably unique work.
But it's only the first use of body horror, and things go far downhill from there.Then towards the end of the novel it departs from its template, and a story about about imperialism and racism becomes one about transformation, acceptance and forgiveness.
Interlibrary loan courtesy of Timberland Regional Library, Tumwater, WAA very interesting book. Clearly inspired by Joseph Conrad's Heart of Darkness, it puts the spiritual journey in an extraterrestrial light.Silverberg's creation of another world and culture is excellent and makes you want to be a tourist (if only not like the tourists in the book). The epiphany that Gundersen has is only exceeded by the one the reader has, as if they have been travelling north with him.Also, an excellent take on the dangers of colonialism.
Ah man, part of me really wants to give this 5 stars...i love Silverberg, he is unbelievably great. This was a beautifully conceived world, felt real, weirdly baroque, beautiful and horrible, and the ideas of redemption, pilgrimage and how we treat our fellow creatures totally gave this levels, a touch of the mystical and a bunch of stuff about human limits, arrogance, and general suckiness, but y'know how we can overcome that...
Silverberg writes a relatively short novel of alien/human contact, comparing culture and religion and discussing the nature of a soul. Nicely written, as a human returns to a planet to atone for his previous employment as a slave master to the native population.
Very nice. Much of it, in fact, is magical. So there is science fiction that I can like and admire! My hate-hate relationship with SF has ended.
On the other hand, it does feel a little like the book finishes half-way through.The lack of personality shown by the tourists actually worked well for the book's plot and Gundersen's distance from the human race; the Nildoror, especially Srin'gahar, are actually more rounded characters than any of the humans.
Of course, the book is more plot/ideas focused than character driven, so none of them are particularly well-rounded, but Gundersen is suitable inward-looking that the absence of personality given to any other character actually worked for most of the book.Things the book did that I didn't like:A modern, postcolonialist approach would have huge issues with this book.
What I really about this book (and books of it’s period) is that Silverberg was able to write a short (200 pages or so) book that managed to tell a very engaging story in one self contained novel.
While I do like to read a well done series of books, I’m more impressed by writers like Silverberg who seem to have been able to come up with many more original ideas for their books, unlike some of today’s authors who seem to come up with one idea and proceed to write ten books about it.Anyway, if you come across this book I recommend reading it.
An excellent SF rendition of "Heart of Darkness". I've read two of the other SF renditions of it, those being Stations of the Tide, and The Drowned World. This was definitely the better of the three. The world building was outstanding, especially considering how short the novel is. The world was totally believable, so we'll done it hardly seemed like it was a fictional planet.
At school I'd always taken pride in defending the SF genre against sniffy English teachers that would have preferred me to be reading Jane Bloody Austen instead of something a 14 year old boy might actually enjoy.
By the way if you're reading this English teachers of yesteryear: I still spit on Jane bloody Austen and all her works.
Years ago, Edmund Gunderson worked for the Company on Holman’s World, a lush jungle planet with two sentient native species: the nildoror, large elephantine herbivores, and the sulidoror, a race of hairy simian-like creatures with powerful claws.
After nearly a decade living on Holman’s World, Edmund ends up leaving when the Company relinquished control of a planet it never really owned.Now, Edmund is returning to the planet with a group of tourists, a planet renamed Belzagor by its freed native inhabitants.
Progress is in gradual steps, a slow, brooding, philosophical journey through Belzagor’s native cultures, watching Edmund and the nildoror develop.
There is much that is changed, and greatly expanded upon.As in Ender's Game, I took issue with the conclusion's strangely religious tone...
Maybe Silverberg's writing has more depth and intelligence.Downward to the Earth is incredible examination of how man might interpret the culture and civilization of a new species.
But I think Silverberg's more subtle interpretation is the more correct one - because when man can subjugate what he does not understand, he tends to do so.
I took this to mean that Silverberg didn't interpret Conrad's Kurtz as truly going native.
The story follows Gundersen, a former colonial administrator on a planet now relinquished to its native inhabitants - an elephant-like race, and a simian species, whose relationship the humans never really grasped.
Now, because unlike those humans we've all read plenty of SF about alien worlds with puzzling ecologies, we pretty much know the answer to that one from the off.
But it doesn't really matter, because the real interest is the detail of the world, with human intrusions slowly being overtaken by nature, and even more in Gundersen's troubled psyche.
It's not perfect - Silverberg has thought through race, but pretty much run the gender norms of the sixties without amendment.
Eight years after Earth has given control back to the nildoror, a species very much like elephants, an ex-colonial agent, Edmund Gunderson, goes back in order to expunge some deep feelings of remorse about some of the things he had done.He learns more about the nildoror, on his quest, than he ever knew about them as a Colonial head.
They have a rite called rebirth, which he had only heard about, but now he wants to see and experience.Throughout the novel, the inhumanity to a species that man inflicts, becomes a clear and a driving force of the novel.
The story is a quest, as Gunderson goes up a mountain, rather than down a river as in Conrad, to discover the mystery of "rebirth." It's a good tale of Earth's encounter with alien intelligences, of our hubris and disdain for what we find on other planets, and the strong attraction the alien has for some of those who experience it.
(There is also a busload of tourists for comic relief.) I think Silverberg had a really good time inventing the geography of the planet and packing, possibly over-packing it, with bizarre flora and fauna.
I had read Downward to the Earth in the early 1970s when it came out from the Science Fiction Book Club, but I remembered very little.
If you liked the movie Avatar you might like this book.
The story is about a former colonial administrator, Edmund Gunderson, returning to a world that has been set free of its human exploiters.
Gunderson wants to make amends for his sins to the intelligent life of the former colonial world Belzagor which he treated like slaves and animals.
This is the fourth of Robert Silverberg's novels that I have read to date, all of which were published from 1969 to 1972.
He is becoming a favorite author.
I've read reviews of Downward to the Earth comparing it to Heart of Darkness.
I see that to a certain extent, though I like Silverberg's writing better than Joseph Conrad's.
I can also imagine its similarities to an unwritten sequel to Ursula K Le Guin's The Word for World is Forest.
It is certainly similar to Silverberg's own The Book of Skulls in that the protagonist quests to undergo an unknown and potentially horrific spiritual metamorphosis.
Mild spoiler that doesn't affect the plot or story much:There's a scene in this book that is pretty much exactly the same as in the movie Aliens. The protagonist in the novel, Gunderson, finds two people who have alien hosts in their chests and the one person wakes up and says "Kill me." There's no Ripley or Newt in this book though so it's 100% a coincidence.
Strange tale of the human subjugation of an alien planet and one man's journey to redeem his soul, told with Silverberg's incomparable mastery for creating rich, imaginative other worlds.
Wow! What scope. What starts as a mundane sci-fi novel ends up a deep thought on souls. Cool.
It's old science fiction topics!! Amazon echo and ips cells have already archived!! The book finished for science fiction.
