https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24662030-the-cellars-of-the-majestic
A rich American businessman's wife is found strangled in a locker in the basement of the Hotel Majestic.
A cook of the hotel finds her and becomes the number one suspect, because it turns out he and the lady have a past together.As the story plays out we learn who the murdered woman is, who the suspect is, how are they connected and did he in fact murder her.
If not, who and why?I enjoyed this story very much and one of the reasons is that Inspector Maigret is unusually jovial throughout the story.
He seems to enjoy himself as he uncovers the facts and finally discovers the murder.
(view spoiler)[Sergeant Torrence, killed in that first novel, is alive and well in this novel.
(hide spoiler)]Maigret investigates the death of Mimi Clark, the beautiful French-born wife of a Detroit industrialist.
Although quite wealthy since her marriage six years ago to the American Oswald Clark, Mimi turns up strangled in the cellar of the Hotel Majestic, a ritzy hotel off the Champs-Élysées — a place frequented by the hotel’s staff, not the well-to-do guests, and especially not at 6 o’clock in the morning, when she was killed.Despite some stumbling on the part of a naïve examining magistrate, in the end, Maigret ensures that justice is done.
The culprit is easily found and when after a second killing happens it is once again the same suspect who is in the picture and he gets arrested.
Maigret does not agree with the actions of his colleague and has his own ideas.A Maigret story generally does not contain any real action, it is more about Maigret finding out what happened in the lives of the people involved in in the crime.
This might not be the best Maigret tale but it is an easy and quick read.
A wealthy American's wife turns up strangled in the staff lockers of a luxury Paris hotel.
I enjoyed the sidelight thrown on the couple's relationship as Maigret finds himself facing a bilingual case, but he's not alone; the examining magistrate can't speak much English, either.
The book is of course set in peacetime, but perhaps that's why food is so important in the "reveal scene", during which Maigret devours a large steak, a slice of roast beef, three beers and three orders of chips.
"Nothing could keep him from enjoying his chips.
My first Maigret, which is kind of unbelievable given how much I like mid-century mystery, but there you go.
Apparently there have been retcons and other variations across the years, but I was ignorant.Maigret is called to investigate the murder of a wealthy American woman whose strangled body is found in the basement work areas of the luxury Hotel Majestic.
Unraveling the connections and solving the mystery requires Maigret to investigate all kinds of Majestic employees, as well as take a quick trip to Cannes to check out Prosper's previous job and friends.
Reading Simenon is like eating a bar of dark chocolate...not much thought required but intellectually admirable, everything tidy at the end, and always a pleasure.
"riletto" in audiolibro. Camminando non si può ascoltare roba troppo impegnativa :-)
My edition - Maigret and the Hotel MajesticAnother brilliant example of the genius of Simenon. Maigret doesn't solve his cases like Holmes or Poirot with intellect, he immerses himself in the characters and locations and soaks up the knowledge of what makes them tick. Simenon also writes with the most wonderful economy. There is no padding in his stories, no wasted words. His books are nearly always quite short, around 130 pages but he can say more in those pages than many other writers in much longer books. Brilliant stuff! Highly recommended.
" - Torrance reappears, after being murdered in 1931 (in Maigret and the Enigmatic Lett)!
- Maigret is no longer retired and is back living in the apartment on Boulevard Richard-Lenoir.
- Janvier make a first appearance.
- The previous Maigret book (in English) - Maigret Returns - was written in 1934.
It was the 19th book in the series and, by all appearances, it was destined to be the last.
This book, number 20, did not appear until 1942, but led to a total of 75 wonderful Maigret novels in English.All those things said, this is a basic whodunit mystery.
This is the second Georges Simenon Maigret novel I've read.
In so few words, Simenon creates a rich, multi-textured world with a colorful assortment of characters which is dazzling.
There is a murder in a Parisian hotel of a woman who had been staying there with her American husband (and child, governess, and maid), who apparently is estranged from her, enraptured as he is with the governess and apparently set on going off to Rome with her.
But everything isn't as it seems.
Immerse yourself and be dazzled as Maigret goes to work to find the real culprit.
One of the best Maigrets.
The depiction of the workings of the hidden world in the bowels of a large hotel, and of the life of the staff is a masterly piece of writing, but then there is the mystery to solve also ...Maigret investigates the murder of the wife of a wealthy American, whose strangled body is found in a staff locker in the basement of a grand hotel near the Champs-Elysees.
Maigret’s inquiries take him from the endless corridors of the Hotel Majestic to the Bois de Boulogne and sun-drenched Cannes, into a world of prostitution, drug addiction, and blackmail.
The Maigret books are just perfect. Perfect little slices of Parisian life, and Maigret's mind. Nothing is sugar-coated, but nothing is too challenging, either. And really, Paris in the late '40s/50's - what more is there to say?
'Maigret e o Cadáver no Armário' proporciona-nos umas boas horas de entretenimento. Divertido, rápido e interessante, o enredo é conduzido com proficiência e simplicidade. Tendo em conta a frugalidade de Simenon com as palavras, é notável como o escritor consegue criar um carismático lote de personagens e uma atmosfera tão vívida e atraente para o leitor. O final é satisfatório e algo inesperado (…o que poderá dever-se à sua ligeira orientação para o rebuscado…). Este é o meu primeiro contacto com Maigret e posso dizer que fiquei satisfeita com o resultado.
Από τα καλύτερα του Simenon με τον επιθεωρητή Maigret. Ατμοσφαιρικό, μυστηριώδες, ζωντανό. Ως συνήθως, η πλοκή έρχεται σε δεύτερη μοίρα. Σε κερδίζουν οι περιγραφές, οι χαρακτήρες, η εποχή.Νομίζω είναι ένα καλό βιβλίο να ξεκινήσει κανείς τη γνωριμία του με τον Maigret.
***1/2.Even though his name doesn’t appear in the title of the novel, this is a Maigret mystery.
I have to admit that it is one of the more confusing ones, since Simenon has chosen to people his story with a great number of characters – many of them of no real importance to the plot line.
It is set at the Hotel Majestic, so you might imagine how many of its employees and guests step in for cameo appearances.
All that aside, once you have the gist of the plot, you are easily caught up in the solution to a double murder.
Fairly quick read.Simenon was faster than this reader. I didn't get it. Although all the clues were there.Loved the locale ... how he just painted the portrait of this magnificent hotel, majestic if you will. I've only read a couple of his books. Will have to look for more.
Confession time: I never really read much Maigret. But I enjoyed this book much more than I thought I would. It was a perfect book to read on the beach.
As usual, Simenon captures much with little prose and establishes the setting with sensual detail that reminded me of Orville’s “Down and Out in Paris and London.” Once the mystery is introduced (a murder!), Maigret immerses himself in the lives of those involved in the plot and uncovers little details and stories that make for good reading.
Again, I was dazzled by Simenon’s economy of prose as he steered Maigret into a believable position of empathy towards the primary suspect and established high moral stakes for the inspector.
Having never read Simenon (I know, I know), I chose The Hotel Majestic to report on for the February meeting of my "Dinner Detectives" book group. If you love Poirot-type mysteries (indeed, Poirot was based on Maigret I've been told), you will fly through this. Loved the staccato style, no-nonsense writing and the way Maigret puts the pieces together. Unlike contemporary detective novels that seem written to ultimately become movie scripts, this one was written with succinct character development and beautiful prose.
This is a short, but good read. Simenon never disappoints - he is the Belgian version of Agatha Christie.As has already been pointed out by others - nothing much happens in the Maigret books in terms of action. Simenon, like Christie, was fascinated by the human psyche, something that is very much reflected in his books. If you like smart crime written by smart people for smart people, you'll love this!
Excelente como siempre Simenon en una novela de resolución un tanto enrevesada pero admirable en la descripción de tipos humanos y sobre todo en la compasion por las gentes sin suerte. Pareja luminosa la que forman Prosper Dongé y Charlotte, durmiendo por turnos en el lecho cuasi-conyugal e impagable el momento en el que Maigret interroga en bicicleta a aquél. Incluso el asesino es, en el fondo, poco más que un oportunista desdichado.
I read this book on the advice of the owner of one of my favorite bookstores(Thanks, Trevor). The story entertained and moved quickly. The action moved at a good pace and the ending wasn't predictable. The characters had pasts with more than met the eye and the chief inspector Maigret is one of my new favorite characters. Looking forward to reading more in the series.
The French wife of a nasty American industrialist is found strangled in a basement locker at the fashionable Hotel Majestic. Her ex-lover is a breakfast chef at the hotel, but did he do it? A young prosecuting judge thinks so, but Maigret is not so sure. As usual, Simenon's description of the environment, and mental state of the inspector, makes for a fun and interesting read.
The murder of the French born wife of a rich American leads to a family drama (their son turns out not to be his) and an increasingly complicated blackmail plot. A lot of the action takes place behind the scenes at a great hotel - to emphasize the point that the surface of life hides a lot of mess. No one does claustrophobic, over heated spaces like Simenon.
Of the several Maigrets I've read, I think this is my favorite. Why read it in German you ask? I can't read it in French and the German translation reads very well and gives me a chance to do some very enjoyable light reading auf Deutsch (as the Neueschreibweise prescribes, with that new capital D).
Anche in questo caso, il commissario riesce a conquistarmi. Un caso molto intricato che ci offre fin da subito il colpevole ideale e che invece maigret risolve brillantemente muovendosi su diversi fronti, non da ultimo quello del gap linguistico che lo rende sempre più simpaticamente umane!
Simenon's plots do not resolve with the clicking of a hundred little gears, but with the strong flow of simultaneous human life!
This one lacks some of the darkness and gloom of my favorite Maigret books, but Maigret is still Maigret, and that's worth at least four stars.
A very enjoyable Simenon romp. Devoid of any pretentiousness, immediately down to its dirty business and staying there until the job is done.
Alle prese con un caso particolarmente intricato di cui ben poco si scopre nella narrazione.E un Maigret che di rado si vede fare certe cose.
