https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/432020.Yu_Yu_Hakusho_Volume_1
But he doesn't have a bad heart, and when he dies before his allotted time, jumping to save a little boy from being hit by a car, the powers of the afterlife (who so far have been carefully avoiding answering any questions about theology, including what religion they come from) tell him he can maybe have a second chance at life if he helps out some souls.The book takes the form of short stories, with some recurring characters, including Yusuke's good-girl childhood friend and some school bullies, who are surprisingly nuanced.
Here the man is saying he realized it was the tanuki but it's kindness has mended his heart.
The history is very good!
This is the first time I have gotten around to reading the manga.
There are so many times that the anime is extremely different then the manga, I just had to know.
I love this manga, though the beginning does start out a lot slower, then the anime, there isn’t much difference.
Over all I am happy to finally get around to reading that amazing story.
I highly recommend this manga, even if you've never read a manga in your life, I guarantee that this story will draw you in, capture your feels and have you cheering for Yusuke with all your mite.
Happy Reading-Emily
I decided to give it a try after a girl in my Library was talking about conventions, and Manga.She recommended this Manga to me and I read it so fast, because it was so interesting.
Since it wasn't expected for his to do a good deed when he died he gets the chance to take a test to come back to life.In this he goes through a series of tests and the rest will continue in Vol. 2 which I CAN'T WAIT TO READ.
I went to check it out at my school library and they have every Volume except for 2...
Completed this volume for abc manga challenge 2017.I watched this anime when it had its original run on Toonami, oh so many years ago, and this was so nostalgic. Honestly I had forgotten a lot of the plot since then, and was amused by the old school art style. The characters had really good development, and the plot isn't boring. I recommend if you're getting into manga that you give this your attention for at least three volumes.Have fun reading!
Creo que este tomo junto al siguiente son el arranque perfecto para una serie que -si bien muestra lo mejor de sí en sus primeros tomos- resulta una mezcla de géneros y estilos de lo más interesante.
It's tough to rate this one. I enjoyed it, but while reading I couldn't help but compare it to Hunter x Hunter. Both are from the same writer and Yu Yu Hakusho is a lightweight compared to HxH.
Προσωπικά έχω διαβάσει και καλύτερα manga αλλά το συγκεκριμένο, είναι ακριβώς αυτό που φαντάζεστε.
Το σχέδιο είναι γραμμικό και παίζει συνεχώς με τις σκιές των προσώπων και του περιβάλλοντα χώρου, και όταν πρέπει σου μεταφέρει την σκοτεινιά που κρύβεται κάτω από τους χαρακτήρες.
Το σενάριο δεν είναι κάτι που δεν έχουμε ξαναδεί (ομάδα νέων με υπερφυσικές δυνάμεις παλεύει με ομάδες κακών νέων με υπερφυσικές δυνάμεις) αλλά έχει κάποια πρωτοτυπία στα τέρατα και τους δαίμονες (ιδιαίτερα την καυστικότητα του χαρακτήρα πολλών δαιμόνων που βλέπουμε ανά υπόθεση).Ιδιαίτερα μου αρέσει πως παρουσιάζεται η σχέση μεταξύ Yusuke και της μάνας του, αλλά δεν θα εντρυφήσω περαιτέρω γιατί θα αποκαλύψω κομμάτια της υπόθεσης.
Donc il ne reste qu’un option pour Yusuke, soit de travailler avec les instances célestes afin de récupéré sa vie et protéger la terre des mauvais esprits ainsi que des démons.Assez cliché, réchauffé et sur-utilisé vous direz, mais moi je vais vous dire que dans ce thème Yoshiro Togashi a été très avant-gardiste, même s’il avait sortie sa série aujourd’hui.
Maintes explications et excuses ont été proférés depuis (même par l’auteur), mais le bout de la ligne c’est que le final de Yu Yu Hakusho est loin d’être à la hauteur de la série.Faisant lien à ceci, le dessin dans cette oeuvre est carrément inégale.
I won't spend my time to "click" on all the volumes.I've read this saga in the same time of watching the anime ^^ ( a long time ago and i still have them all in my bookshelf).Kurama and his little spiky demon Friend were my favourite caracthers.Basically " foe" but they end up " working and being friends with Yusuke" ^^
I had only a vague recollection of this series and thought I'd check out the manga expecting some crazy shonen action and instead there was very little action but it was really touching and I blubbered like an idiot reading it. 5 stars.
I wish the art in this were not so atrocious, because the storyline is really fun.
3.25 stars
I adore this book. The poignant one-off stories were utterly heartwarming. One of my favorite volumes of any manga.
Percebe-se claramente a intenção de estabelecer o tom do que vem a seguir, deixar claro as "regras" do mundo espiritual (sobretudo através da personagem Botan) e apresentar a personalidade do protagonista Yusuke Urameshi, clássico bad boy brigão de bom coração.Dito isto, após a morte de Yusuke logo de cara, a publicação apenas mostra casos específicos com o objetivo de apresentar elementos espirituais a fim de serem usados como regra em algum momento no futuro da série.
Para quem está sendo apresentado a Yu Yu Hakusho agora, este volume já define bem o tom da série e como age o seu protagonista.
This was really slow, compared the awesome anime I grew-up a little bit on. The art style here is almost bad, but it’s only because of the determination to add humor that doesn’t work well with the type of story we have, here. I like the concept, of course, but it doesn’t flow well, in this first book. There’s a lot of short tales in this first volume, but none really rang-out to me as special. But it wasn’t a bad book. It just felt about as average s could be. Really hoping volume two picks-up a lot more steam.
For this book, I thought I would throw a little manga in the mix.
I knew of this book series because I watched the Anime when I was a kid and loved it.
This book itself was really good and added a lot of details that the show skipped altogether.
Yusuke is met with the grim reaper, who offers him a chance to come back to the world of the living.
He recognizes that he was kind of a trashy person and declines the offer.
It was a lot of fun reading this and I think anyone that has an interest in manga and Japanese fiction.
Yusuke never knew that one simple act could send the Underworld into such disarray, but what else can he do but accept the job of hunting down spiritual phenomenon before it can negatively impact the living? Togashi begins this classic series with wit and charm that will please loyal fans. Where can a ghost hide from one of its own?
I haven’t read these since the 8th grade. This is one of my favorite manga and my all time favorite anime.I love this story so much, there is always something happening and Yusuke’s evolution is brilliant, with specs of his awkward personality littered throughout the manga. Can’t wait to re-read the whole series!
Brings back memories. A classic tale.
Not as connect to the show, but in these episodic adventures while dead Yusuke shows that under all that tough punk exterior he works to hard to cultivate, he's a decent guy.
I loved reading this series.
I loved this manga growing up! (This and Dragon ball) I actually read this in Shonen Jump when it first came out in English. Loved the anime as well, great manga & all around story. Love Yusuke!
This was my first time reading this manga. I'm speechless.
So good!
It's not so much that the actual story is hugely different, but that that anime greatly compresses the early chapters comprising the first arc into a far shorter story, leaving out several plot details that don't necessarily affect the flow of the story.The tale begins by showing us a rowdy, rebellious, junior-high delinquent – fourteen year old Urameshi Yusuke.
This jerk is the main protagonist of the story, which kinda starts out weird in that he dies at the beginning of the tale.
Secondly, this starts surprisingly slow for a shonen comic.
I find myself wishing towards the end to go back to stuff like the ghost dog chapter in volume 1!
It really looked like Togashi planned on a grand, final arc that was never made either due to low sales or Togashi himself just got tired of drawing Hakusho.
For all its flaws, it still has badass characters like Hiei and Kurama, as well as some of the best comic book fights of the 90s decade.
If Dragonball was Harry Potter, Hakusho would be more like Golden Compass in that regard.
Since Yusuke wasn't supposed to die right there, the Grim Reaper that comes to get him informs him that there isn't a place for him in the afterlife.
The rest of the volume shows Yusuke witnessing how other spirits and people deal with death.As I sat there reading this book, I couldn't help but wonder how in the world was this snot-nosed brat going to earn his life back.
I was surprised to learn that Yusuke isn't what he appears to be; he's neither a brat or a hero, but something in between.
Due to Yusuke's terrible attitude, the spirit world did not plan on him dying to save that child, and so there is no room for him in the afterlife.
Now it is up to Yusuke to pass this test and return to the mortal world, but what the spirit world didn't tell him is that if he can be revived, there will come a price to pay...Here is the beginning of one of the best anime & manga series of the 1990s, maybe of all time.
Tough-guy Yusuke Urameshi sacrifices himself to save a young boy from being hit by a car, but the afterlife doesn't have a place for him yet, so spirit guide Botan offers Yusuke a chance to return to life.Though drawn in 1990, I didn't find the artwork to be particularly dated, though certain differences exist in the style.
The translation was good and the plot is interesting - this first volume is mostly filled with feel-good shorts as Yusuke begins the test that will determine if he can return to life.
The friendship that exists between Yusuke and Keiko doesn't feel all that fleshed out - she's pretty broken up over his death, but all we really see is what a jerk he is to her.
