https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/333103.Man_on_Fire
To give his friend something to think of other than the bottle, Guido offers the bodyguard job to Creasy which he grumblingly accepts.2.The Transformation & The Tragedy :  After fits and starts, Pinta brings life back into Creasy.
Thrillers sometimes leave this light bulb on in the reader's mind which warns the reader 'Be prepared for something wicked this way comes !', when Creasy and Pinta become father and child we know something is going to go horribly wrong and it does.
This is also the meatiest part of the story for it is the place where Creasy and the minor characters are all dished out as flesh and blood people and not cliches in a vengeance plot.
This author wrote Man on Fire with true stories of people he knew and met, with a setting of where he actually lived as the backdrop.
It was a book that I loved.
A lot of books and movies nowadays don't have the justice that I want to see.
He cleans up and begins to finally care again, and he feels she saves his life and possibly his soul.
The thing that amazed me in this book is how great the characters are written.
I read every "Creasy" book by this author and actually got a response from an e-mail to him before he died a few years ago.
I guess that's why I loved superhero comics as a kid.I saw the movie several years ago(Washington version not Glenn)and enjoyed it but had no idea it was based on a book or that it was actually a series of books.Creasy, now in his late forties is a former member of the French Foreign Legion and mercenary who is a washed up drunk at this point in his life.
A friend and former compatriot sets him up with a gig to bodyguard a young girl, Pinta.
If you liked the movie or enjoy The Punisher or Seven Samurai type of story you will enjoy this book.
Few books are perfect action films but this is one of them.
I feel there are really three parts to this book, a great touching relationship story that gives a hardened man a reason to live, A recovery story about renewed vitality, and an excellent vengeance story.
This story is both sad and exciting and makes you feel for every detail.
I have not felt this engrossed while reading a story in a long time.
Matt loves this series and recommended it to me but it took me a long time to finally read it.
If you enjoy action or revenge movies you will dig this book.
Be advised, this review is for the AJ Quinnell book published in 1980, not the movie staring Denzel Washington.
The movie was great too but diverges from the novel in several areas.Having said that this novel is incredible.
The character of Creasy; battle-scarred veteran of the French foreign legion is one of the great unsung fictional heroes.
Well worth a read.Pity Eastwood didn't play this character.
He is the same age as Creasy.
I know Scott Glen played him in the first movie but I haven't seen it.
Reviewed by, David Feeney, author; Terror on the high seas
If I could give this book ten stars I would...but understand I'm a tad biased because I was also a former Legionnaire and a bodyguard just like Creasy in the book. (If you've seen the movies you will no doubt remember Creasy was ex CIA...typical Hollywood..in the book he's a former French Foreign Legionnaire.) Not sure where Mr Quinnel (RIP) got his info from or how he researched this but he is absolutely spot on in just about every regard.Definitely worth a read.
Well written novel that reads more like a character study than a thriller yet still had me turning the pages to see what happened next.
Η ομότιτλη ταινία σε σκηνοθεσία Τόνι Σκοτ και με πρωταγωνιστή τον Ντένζελ Ουάσινγκτον, μια από τις καλύτερες ταινίες δράσης που έχουν γυριστεί, βασίζεται στο βιβλίο του Α.
Ο χαρακτήρας του Κρίζι έχει πολύ βάθος, δεν είναι απλά ένας τύπος με μπράτσα που σκοτώνει, αλλά ένας άνδρας που έπιασε πάτο, μέχρι που βρήκε ένα νόημα στην ζωή του.
Η ατμόσφαιρα, φυσικά, εξαιρετική.Γενικά πρόκειται για ένα βιβλίο, που ναι μεν έχει δράση και δυνατές σκηνές, όμως σε λογικές ποσότητες, χωρίς να είναι αυτοσκοπός του συγγραφέα να μας προσφέρει απλά βία.
Βασικό προτέρημα του βιβλίου είναι ο χαρακτήρας του Κρίζι και η εξέλιξη του από την στιγμή που τον γνωρίζουμε για πρώτη φορά.
An American in Europe on the edge of alcoholic collapse finds himself finding a new joy in life through his friendship with a little girl, but when she’s kidnapped he draws on his violent past to seek vengeance.Part of me read it with a sneer as it is macho, violent nonsense, but a more adolescent part really enjoyed the sheer old fashioned adventure of this macho, violent nonsense.
If you think of Richard Stark’s ‘Parker’, but without the subtlety or dark humour, then you get an idea of what’s on offer here.
One of the well-written, fast-paced thrillers I've read. You can easily identify with the characters. A fine read.
The setting is different (Italy for the book, Mexico for the movie), timeframe: early 70's for the book, around 2005 or so for the movie.
You can tell the book was written years ago (by the style and the way it is laid out).
The book does an excellent job at fully describing Creasy and why he is the way he is.
Not an action book, but it does feature plenty of gritty action (oh boy does it-Creasy is a one man wrecking crew).
A very emotional book, as you feel the rage that Creasy feels.The first of 4 books to feature Creasy.
I read this book years ago and thought it was excellent. Super plot with lots of strands that all came together in the end. Suspense. Ingrigue. Emotion. It was twice made into a movie. I saw the first and was extraordinaly disappointed. The artistry that went into making the book was nowhere present in the movie. I haven't seen the second movie version. I hope that turned out better. This fellow is tops in the genre - along with Frederick Forsythe.
awesome page turner, as always when they made the movie 20 years later they butchered it, so much was lost..the movie in its own right wasnt bad, but knowing that is was ripped from this book somehow lessened its appeal
4.25 or so. A really good book. The book is dramatically different in many ways from the Denzel movie based on it (which I also liked.)
Denzel'in karizmasina aşıkken ve macera-aksiyon filmlerini severken bu filme nasıl 5 yıldız verilmez ki!
It definitely makes you wanna read it avidly till the very end.The main character, Marcus Creasy, is the typical ‘lone wolf’ tough guy who doesn’t talk much but that can kill you in the blink of an eye.
But in the end is a decent and enjoyable (and bloody violent) novel about a man who wants to avenge the loss of a very special friend.My rating for the book: 4 stars (maybe three, but not really).
When I found a paperback edition of the original novel (reprinted with the film poster to capitalize on its release) at my local thrift store, I had to grab it.
It did nothing to affect my love for the film, as the differences between the novel and the film are so radical that I can barely see them as the same work.
Only the basic premise, a couple lines, a few plot points, and variations of Creasy's execution methods are copied over from the book (and yes, he really does shove a timed explosive up another man's ass).Although Creasy's humanity is fleshed out a bit more in the novel, so also is his ruthlessness.
So I rushed to the library and dug in!It is a good read!
The setting in the book is Italy, not Mexico, and Creasy has more assistance, but the plot is basically the same.
I was not patient in waiting for the action!The action is good, Creasy is awesome, and I'm glad I read it!
I liked getting more information about Creasy, as the movie gave almost none.
I also like that there are four more "Creasy Novels" to read, and I already have #2 on order from the library!
I think that overall, I liked the movie better, but I am glad to have read where it came from!
The first Creasy novel is quite good. Creasy is a former soldier serving the French Foreign Legion who gets hired to bodyguard an eleven year old girl in Italy while the Mafia is kidnapping children at an alarming rate. The girl is kidnapped and Creasy vows revenge against "anyone that profitted" from the kidnapping. He takes his personal war all the way up the Mafia chain of command and the novel finishes with a bang. Great read!
Very different from the Denzel Washington movie but enjoyable. The author occasionally provided more background or details than I would have liked but hard to argue with the authentic feel that gives the story. And I loved the idea that this hardened, jaded mercenary could be so changed by one small girl. Well done.
"September 26, 2017 –  50.0% "1:18:21"September 26, 2017 –  50.0% "There is plenty of suspense here in this novel"September 26, 2017 –  50.0% "1:14:26"September 26, 2017 – Started Reading" Creasy got ability to be invisible... everyone and silent. He is just the perfect guy you can ever encounter, who won't want to kill him?By the look of his face he is cold ...
This was a exciting book. I liked how Creasy was a drunk and was not likeable in the beginning of the book but he learns to love and have feelings again because of the little girl he is hired to protect. Long story short he gets back into shape after the little girl is kidnapped and seeks out his revenge on those that took her. I would recommend.
This is a great thriller, but beyond the action there is a great story told. When a young girl needs to be protected. the man put in charge has a sordid past. The two find a great friendship as the story twists and turns through some intense lines. Well done.
Amazing. Action packed with a heart. To coin a phrase, a real page-turner. There are 5 more books in the John Creasy series and I will definitely be reading them all. My favourite action book next to The Day Of The Jackal and I never thought I'd find a book I loved as much as that!!
Loved this. VERY different to the movie - remove all Hollywood, add some serious, heartbreaking situations and reality and you get the book. a must read even if you have seen the movie because they are completely different, as in different story lines, different characters and different endings.
You should read this bookBefore 'Reacher' before 'The Terminator' here was Creasy in a masterpiece of well written action. Thrills an suspense from he start with just a bit of romance
An entertaining thriller. It was made into a movie starring Denzel Washington, but I have trouble visualizing him in that-it must have been loosely based on the book. definitely will look for more from this author
Just because you’ve seen the movie doesn’t mean you shouldn’t read the book. It is excellent, and after the first 3rd it is different enough to keep you guessing...mostly.
This is my second read through. It's a fun vengeance novel with a unique character. It drags a bit in the middle, but a quick read nonetheless.
Elegant A bit dated, perhaps, or more a relic of the period. Very nicely done, better than the film that led me here, which was also nicely done.
