https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25070022-hostile-witness
I really enjoy legal thrillers and was looking forward to digging in to this novel.
I can not decide if I like her style of writing - it seemed quite inconsistent to me - some parts of the story line were well thought out and interesting while other parts meandered and did not connect with or move the story forward.
I wanted to like the main character, but I felt that she was underderveloped despite Forester's attempts to show us who she was through a lot of extraneous narration.
Some passages of dialogue and narration were written with clarity and facility, while other passages could have come from the pencil of a third grader writing a note to pass in class to his/her friend.A good, honest attempt to revise the manuscript would have resulted in far fewer long passages that left the reader thinking, "huh?" Confusing similes and metaphors as well as muddied logic and convoluted philosophy filled the pages.
It is definitely NOT a "thriller."Overall, Hostile Witness left me sad that the book was written so half-heartedly.
That's the power of advertising and bargain book offers by vendors like Barnes and Noble and Amazon in hopes the author will be read and reviewed favorably.
The bundled The Witness Series contains seven books, which seems to be the entire series, 1887 pages.
No, this series in about protagonist Josie Baylor-Bates, a former criminal defense attorney and her clients and witnesses.
We, the reader could also be considered the witness as crimes, alibis, trials, are laid before our eyes.
Like any good legal thriller, clues are given, but often misleading and you are kept on your toes deciding if the culprit is guilty.
From the moment the book opened with 16-year-old Hannah Sheraton being processed into the women's prison, I was hooked.When Hannah's mother begs her old college roommate, Josie Bates, to defend her daughter, Josie is caught up in a complicated legal situation.
It's a roller coaster of emotions and it will keep you thinking about the relationships of mothers and daughter and father and sons long after you've finished reading the book.
And if I had guessed, I would have gotten it wrong!Hostile Witness offers plenty of suspense, tense action, high emotional content (both positive and negative), and a satisfactory ending that bodes well for future books in the series (this is #1).
I just bought #2.Personal note: I noticed that all of Rebecca Foster's books are priced quite low on kindle.
I think I'm going to follow Rebecca's lead and lower the kindle price of three of my novels - The Heretic, The Pope's Conspiracy, and A Good Conviction - and see if this stimulates more sales.
Josie Baylor-Bates used to be a high profile lawyer, but resigned from her law-firm after a female client she successfully defended killed her children after walking free.
She then wanted nothing more than to work as a lawyer in a low profile law firm in Hermosa Beach, California.
However, all that was about to change when an old college roommate turns up at her door for help.
This legal thriller grabbed me from the first page and the only problem I had with it, was that I found it difficult to put down and get on with the practicalities of my life.‘Hostile Witness’ is the first in a series of eBook legal thrillers by Rebecca Forster featuring Josie Baylor-Bates and is often free on Kindle.
Josie Baylor-Bates, a friend of Hannah's mother, defends her daughter.This story slowly unfolds in the court and with Josie's investigations outside.
Very little is said between Hannah and Josie.
This crime thriller is basically a court room drama featuring regular court procedures and dialogue between counsels.Hostile Witness is dull, it is not an exciting novel.
I took nothing away from this book.
I think that Hostile Witness is rubbish and I shall be voting it the minimum 1 star on Good Reads as I consider this book one to AVOID.
I will not be reading another of Rebecca's books.
Anyone looking for a Courtroom Drama needs to go no further.
I really enjoyed this book, I received this free so decided to start it and see.
I was hooked.
It is not just a story of a crime, an investigation, a trial and a conviction, it is so much more.
A sixteen year old girl with a lot of problems is accused of killing her grandfather.
A mother desperate to save her child begs an old school friend to help and defend her.
This is the start of a series and yes I will be reading more from this author.
Until her best college-friend showed up desperate, needing Josie to represent her daughter Hannah - who has been accused of murdering her step-grandfather.
I'm supposed to be packing and painting our house for a move, but instead I blocked off a day to read this, it was that good (also, I'm really tired at this point, so I'm not a hard sale for resting with a book.
There's a good deal of action, and you are never quite sure how much is OCD and how much is psychosis - even when the book ends.
The characters lived and breathed and I had to love them, hate them, weep for them, grieve with them, and ultimately burst with admiration and sympathy for the beautiful, courageous, loyal, deeply troubled Hannah, and for the lawyer who was willing to risk all to save the girl she believed in when everyone else condemned and abandoned her.Rebecca Forster demonstrates extraordinary talent as a writer, both through her ability to weave a gripping story, and through her skill with words.
A must read for anyone who enjoys a good crime story, courtroom drama, or psychological thriller, ''Hostile Witness'' is the first in a series, and I will definitely be looking for more titles by Rebecca Forster.
Hannah is a tattooed, multi-pierced 16 year old with OCD and a mother who does not understand the concept of love.
Josie is also Hannah's only chance.Rebecca Forster's characters are well drawn, with depth, and believable.
It follows Josie as she tries to piece together what happened the night Supreme Court Justice Fritz Rayburn, Hannah's step-grandfather was murdered.
Hannah is less than helpful; her mother, Linda, surely wins the 'Most Selfish Mother of the Year' award, and her step-father has his own demons to overcome.
I was completely drawn in to Josie and Hannah's world and I am very happy to recommend 'Hostile Witness'.
I downloaded this free book and found myself immediately welcomed into Josie, Hannah, and Archer's world! The characters become friends who I wanted to be in constant contact with just like family or neighbors. The dust bunnies multiplied as I finished one book in the series and downloaded the next. Rebecca's characters are very realistic and complicated, making then extremely life like. The "movie" played vividly in my head as I turned the pages andI felt like I was on Hermosa Beach! Definitely worth your time!
The action and the suspense are non-stop in this courtroom drama. Sometimes you'd like to get relief from the tension, but that never happens. However, it's a difficult book to put down, and I was especially rooting for Hannah, the teenager accused of murder who was being treated badly by practically everybody, including her step-grandfather, the man who is murdered.
Forster has given life to some vivid, remarkably human characters - the heroic, sympathetic lawyer who puts a painful past behind her to defend a young girl accused of arson and murder; the 16-year-old defendant, a troubled teen lost in emotional chaos and harboring shocking secrets, the girls' seriously dysfunctional mother and step-father seemingly hiding behind mysterious secrets of their own, the hard-nosed yet somehow slightly noble prosecuting attorney, even the victim himself, a man already dead when the novel begins.The protagonist of the novel is Josie Baylor-Bates, a lawyer who finds herself back in the criminal defense game she left some years ago.
It turns out too that Kip Rayburn, set to replace his father on the Supreme Court and who desperately wants the trial of his stepdaughter to go away (and his stepdaughter too, for that matter), has some secrets of his own.Part drama, part courtroom thriller, part story of an attorney about to enter middle age and questioning where her values lie, the twists in the plot line, the dubious facts, the intensity and high emotion make Hostile Witness a gripping read.
I’m always reluctant to try a new author because too often they don't deliver a good story.That isn’t the case here.
And she kept things happening throughout the rest of the story.I liked Josie, too.
In one scene, Forster has Josie putting her arm atop the bench seat in Archer’s Hummer.
Hummer’s don’t have front bench seats; they have buckets separated by a wide console.That small quibble aside, this book was good enough to make me add other books in the series to my ‘want to read’ list.Thanks, Lewis.
I got this as a free book off of Amazon.It's been a while since I've read a page turner-- one that I had to stay up late reading just to race to the end.
From the initial meeting of Linda, a past roommate with an intriguing proposal, to meeting her defendant, Hannah and to revealing the rest of the ragtag band of screwed up characters, they were all fascinating characters.
I loved the dramatic moment near the end when Josie is building her case...
and gets an unexpected result.Most of all, I really liked Josie.
She's someone I would want defending me.
The plot draws you in immediately and never let’s go its grip of you.Hannah is a character who I immediately felt for and I was with her all the way through the novel.
Most of the other characters were people who I would not like if I met them in person but they were just as well crafted and real.Hannah has obsessive compulsive disorder and it is interesting to see how and why this behaviour began, I felt that this condition was portrayed very well.I loved this book and cannot recommend it highly enough, go and get a copy.Star Rating 5/5 I loved it.
But I was way too interested in the story to stop reading or even to skip to the end.
I felt like I got to know the characters much better, though some of them I really didn't like and eventually hated as things played out.
But the main three women, the accused 16 year old, her mother and the attorney will be on my mind for a long time.I thought I had an idea how it would all play out but there were so many twists and turns...
Better than your average legal thriller even though it is still fairly predictable.
Maybe it is because the main character is so likable or that the 16 year old girl she defends seems so messed up because of her mom.
I don't know.Forster isn't a great writer or anything.
In fact, I found a number of grammatical errors (missing apostrophes mostly), but I never know if that is because I am reading a digital version or if the author and editor really missed them.
As I said the book is pretty predictable, but I would read the next book in the series if it came up free on Nook (this one was).
I couldn't get past the author's motivation for her main character (Josie)...In short, she made Josie a highly successful defense attorney who gave up defense work when she "got off" a woman who then, after gaining her freedom, killed her children.
The running theme throughout the book then became that Josie could only defend someone who she believed was innocent.No defense attorney I have ever met has had that attitude.And then, of course, (yes, I'm going to give away the ending) Josie is proven right when her boyfriend's answering machine records her entire confrontation with the real killer.
Good thing he had his machine set on unlimited recording time...
Another damned crime novel where the heroine/ lawyer is a beautiful, six-foot, legendary sand volleyball champ, with a hot cop boyfriend who totally adores her. The story is mundane and as predictable as rain. The writing is pedestrian and boring. The author keeps inserting romance novel dreck which is one of my pet peeves. There are more cliches than all the tea in china. (See what I did there?) Sorry, but this one is a loser.
Mother and child?Attorney Bates gets emotionally involved with the client. This sentence in the book says it best "You worked with what you had, you did what you could, and you made choices based on need".
Black’s Law Dictionary When Judge Fritz Rayburn, California Supreme Court Justice, is suddenly killed in a fire at his home, the whole state was in mourning.
Sixteen-year-old Hannah Sheraton, Judge Rayburn’s step-granddaughter, is arrested and charged with complicity in his tragic death.
Linda Sheraton-Rayburn, Hannah’s mother, in a desperate attempt to protect her daughter, contacts a college friend to defend Hannah.
She gave up practicing criminal law when she won a case; only to have her client kill her children after she was free.
Josie goes to the ultimate limit for Hannah.
If this is the first time a child has committed a crime, is not in any type of gang then no the child should not be tried as an adult.
To me it seemed like Hannah was trying to be the adult/parent while Linda was the child.
Hannah like any child wants to believe one thing and tried to protect her mother.
But it was selfish that Josie did not discuss what was happening with Hannah or anyone else in her life.
Yes Josie had a right to protect the child.
Very good legal thriller about a 16 year old girl, who is accused of murdering her step-grandfather, who just happens to be the Chief Justice of the Cal. Supreme Court.
Her mother turns to Josie Bates, a lawyer, who used to be her roommate-mate in college.
The girl has many mental problems.
Probably due to the awful childhood she went through with her highly erratic mother.
She is also a very talented artist.
Josie takes the case and discovers many very dark secrets in her family This is a very fast-paced and well written novel.
I want to read the other books in this series.
Lawyers don't investigate central case facts *after* trial has begun, but that's what Josie Bates does.
And in Josie's world all men are evil, manipulative, and sadistic.
In Josie's reality such men actually prey on women and girls by slicing them with knives, burning them with hair dryers, breaking their teeth, and dislocating their shoulders.
Women, on the other hand, are either victims of devious men or strong, smart, courageous warriors fighting for justice against male devils.
I don't think you'll enjoy this novel unless you have a strong predisposition against the men in your life.
Sorry, Josie Bates.
Von der Autorin hatte ich bis dato noch nichts gehört, aber es lohnt sich, ihre Justiz-Thriller zu lesen. Ich fand das Thema sehr interessant, und die Story ist spannend geschrieben, so dass ich 09/10 Punkte geben kann.http://sunsys-blog.blogspot.com/2018/...
I enjoyed this one a lot. More than the legal thriller I was expecting.
Fast read. Too many clues left lying around. Paced well. Nice beach book. Doesn't really require a lot. Just a little fun in Hermosa
