https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40159.The_King_of_Attolia
hot damn.
It's weird how I find the most difficult books to review are those that I knew were going to be amazing... and yep, this was amazing! I mean, what do you say that actually means anything? I could ramble on about fantastic writing, brilliant characters, excellent plot, this would all be true but the words are so empty and don't convey what I love about this series.They don't say how this intricate fantasy world pulls you in with it's politics, it's culture and it's superstitions. It's like the e
I could ramble on about fantastic writing, brilliant characters, excellent plot, this would all be true but the words are so empty and don't convey what I love about this series.They don't say how this intricate fantasy world pulls you in with it's politics, it's culture and it's superstitions.
Well, Wuthering Heights was told entirely from the point of view of secondary characters, for one!The story was excellent, I loved visiting Eugenides again and seeing how far he has come and how much he is still the same little devil we met in book one.
“Are you badly hurt?”“Hideously,” said the king, without sounding injured at all. “I am disemboweled. My insides may in an instant become my outsides as I stand here before you.”  Attolis, the new king of Attolia, is a pawn. He is lazy, unloved by his wife, and there to be a victim, unaware of the political machinations of his court. At least, that’s what his guard thinks of him; they love their queen, of course, but do not love their king. This includes Costis, his newly appointed guard, who
With a clever point of view shift to a new character, this book is a clever and eerie ride.This series feels so classic, like something everyone would’ve been obsessed with ten years ago.
If a plot element shows up in the beginning of the book, it will be become a part of the book further on; within the world, with political elements, with character elements.
Costis is a really interesting character and I really loved the growing relationship between him and Gen, but I admit, I was disappointed by the overall smaller scale of the plot twists and the action.
That scene, with Eugenides bleeding almost to death all while pretending he was okay, yet taking time to show his love for Attolia..... that bit right there is why I LOVED this book. I swoon. Sigh Admittedly, I did not see it coming. That I would be entranced by these characters. Gen and Attolia's love and marriage hit me in the "feels", while the palace intrigue and political machinations had me at the edge of my seat. Alas and as with all good things, the end has come. *Sniff.*Thank you, Megan Whalen Turner, for writing such a phenomenal series.
With this book Megan Whalen Turner has cemented herself as one of my all-time favorite writers.
Slowly Costis, and we together with him, starts learning who his new King really is, the nature of Gen's relationship with his Queen and his schemes that are intended to reshape the landscape of Attolian politics.As Turner's previous book, "The King of Attolia" is filled with political intrigues and power play, this time almost exclusively within the Attolian court.
"The King of Attolia" is another masterful novel by Megan Whalen Turner.
If I tell you that each book in this series just gets more and more exceptional, will you believe me?
(In this case, to get you to read these books yesterday).
The King of Attolia is even better than its predecessor and I will tell you anything to get you to read these books.
Through his eyes, the reader gets an intimate, exquisitely poignant look at the relationship between the King and the Queen of Attolia.
The King of Attolia cements the whole gorgeous package.
I can already tell I will be reading about these characters for the rest of my life.

Most of the book is more intellectual than actionable in that I spent most of the time trying to figure out the subtle interactions between Eugenides and the Queen of Attolia.After a few books shown from the PoVs of Eudenidies and The Queens it was interesting that most of this book was shown from the perspective of Costis a member of the Attolian guard.
It was a much more interesting story to see how everyone else in Attolia perceived Gen and try to figure out what he was really up to.
She said, “I love your eyes.” She kissed him on either cheek, near the small lobe of his ear.
We as readers already know what to expect from Eugenides (view spoiler)[(nothing is as it seems on the surface, nothing is an accident, not when Gen is involved.) (hide spoiler)], so watching the story unfold through this new character’s eyes was a treat and it was great seeing how his perspective of Gen changed throughout the book.My favorite part:“You drop your point in third.”(view spoiler)[I LOVED the fight scenes at the end!!
(That love that borders on if you were a real person, we would be total besties except only in my mind cause you're way too awesome to hang out with the likes of me.
I'd probably end up being something closer to your stalker.) Attolia, whom we are getting lovely emotional growth from.
But it ended up being a brilliant move on MWT's part.
It gave us an unique perspective of Gen, seeing him as others saw him and not how he saw himself.
I wouldn't have this book written any other way.
Not even to "see" Gen's thoughts.
I can't believe I never even thought of Katie McGrath before!!
"...if Attolia could look like a queen, then Eugenides was like a god revealed...".
Furthermore, Turner made the story that much more interesting by telling it from a third party point of view.
I'd had such negative feeling about cutting off Eugenides's hand in the last book that I didn't believe the series and the romantic relationship could recover from that.
I actually felt Eugenides's losing one hand was essential to the story's perfection.
Not many authors could've pulled this off and Turner did it beautifully.Last but not least, the book is a perfect example of "show, not tell".
What makes the book interesting is that the reader knows better.
The backstory of their relationship -- the Queen's torture of Gen, the uncertain coercion of their marriage -- plays a huge role, coloring every important element of the story.
There's been a lot of discussion about whether the narrative gaps in this book are an intentional plot tool or due to its being a sequel.
I think it's clear that the narrative gaps are a tool, but I think the whole emotional web that gives the book such intriguing weight is dependent on the The Queen of Attolia.
I’m feeling SO DOWN right now. Why must all good things come to an end? 😣This series keeps getting better and better with each book and Eugenides just keeps surprising me in ways I never see coming. Outstanding writing. Intricate political intrigue. A damn fine lead character whose brilliance and cunning ways leaves you wanting more... ughhh!👏🙌 SO. GOOD!
It starts out a little bit slow, although it's fun watching for all the clues in the text that I missed the first time I read it.
I can't think of anyone I know who wouldn't enjoy this book and its plot twists.Presumably if you're reading this review you've already read (or are thinking of reading) the first book in the series, The Thief, which is also a wonderful book, though I found it a little slower than this one.
So go plow through the 2nd book, if only so you can get to this 3rd one in the series.
Told primarily from the viewpoint of Costis, a young officer in the Queen of Attolia's guard, it's a masterful use of the unreliable narrator to tell two stories at once--but only if you've read the other books first.
It makes their relationship even more compelling than if we'd had it from either of their perspectives.Aside from Eugenides' stated purpose for fooling the entire Attolian court, there's a second story going on here: Irene has made him her King, actual ruler over Attolia in her place, and Gen won't rise to the challenge.
How can it be possible to love a book , and , a series this much ??!!I love ,, love ,, absolutely and completely love this series, my love grows more and more with every book. I feel like I'll never ever again enjoy a book unless it's written by Megan Whalen Turner and have Eugenides in it. And if you are waiting for a proper review, sorry .. don't, am only using this space to show how much I love this series and this book , if I can!!
4/5 StarsSometimes, if you want to change a man’s mind, you change the mind of the man next to him first.”  The Skinny:  Gen has gotten what he ‘wanted’; he is now the King of Attolia.
The Review:Unlike in The Thief, The King of Attolia is not told from Gen’s point of view.
But as I got to know Costis as a character, he began to grow on me.
By the end, Costis was unflinchingly loyal to the king and he had redeemed himself in my eyes.
Attolia understood Gen and he got her.
"How can you not know why you hit someone?"Costis shook his head."It must have been something I said.
"Tell me, Costis, why?""Because you didn't look like a king," he said.
[...] you sit on the throne like...like a printer's apprentice in a wine shop."And then later..."The king, looking down at the bedcover, ran his hands across the embroidered cloth and said nothing.
If Attolia could look like a queen, Eugenides was like a god revealed..."Great series up until now.
This third book shows a more mature Eugenides, his struggle to earn the respect from the people & how he and Attolia learn to be a team.
It’s something everyone is aware of when they start a long series; will all the books be able to maintain the same quality or will one full victim to the dreaded middle-book-filler-syndrome?
If I was aware of how much this series would fluctuate in quality from the start, I don’t think I would have bothered giving it the time of day at all.
Attolia was in pretty much the same position at the start of the book as it was by the end, and this whole book felt pointless.
But in the good way where you’re grinning the whole time, and maybe wriggling a bit, and it’s not actually so much about suspending disbelief anymore as meeting the books halfway because this you will indulge.
This pushed my buttons so hard with its outsider POV on a beloved character, and its story of personal reconciliation to political power (I, uh, have a thing for that as I’m sure absolutely no one has noticed *cough*), and its continuing attention to the aftermath of violence.Ah.
Diabolically clever. I love this series.
Such a satisfying read
I'm so happy that I was dead WRONG!I was hooked my the second chapter & started binge reading until 3 in the morning.
This is my most favoritest book evah in The Queen's Thief series.
I was opposite, I rated the second book slightly lower because Attolia was hard for me to appreciate.
His grandfather was not wrong when he said that a thief's greatest weapon is his mind!I want to know if Sophos is alright.
I loved him in the first book and really want him and Eddis to make each other happy.
I'm really not sure what it is about these books I like so much. There isn't much action, they definitely aren't Grimdark, very little warfare or magic, no mythical creatures to speak of. But, damnit if they aren't just damn good books.
Firstly I would like to commend Megan Whalen Turner for making a bold change here in the third book in a series.
This is a very significant change as if you read pretty much any reviews for the previous two books, you’ll know how much everyone loves the main character of Eugenides.
As we know how he behaves, this new way of narrating the story keeps the character fresh.
It really added something to the story because just like Costis, you don’t know the game that Eugenides is playing, only that he is playing one.
Anyway I loved this book for so many different reasons.
Just when I thought that the Queen's Thief series couldn't get better, Megan Whalen Turner stuns me with THE KING OF ATTOLIA!
(view spoiler)[At the end of THE QUEEN OF ATTOLIA Gen found himself in a dilemma.
MWT made the brilliant decision to tell the story from the point of view of Costis, one of the Queen's Guards, who is forced to spend most of his time with Gen while acting as his bodyguard.
There was no way Costis could know that Gen was a master of deception.The intricate plot was full of political intrigue while Gen and Attolia attempted to keep one step ahead of the devious barons who would stop at nothing to steal the throne.
I loved this book, as I did the previous one, but then, I was kinda expecting to anyway, what with Turner's turn of phrase, heh.
This is a short review, because there is no more to gush about than there already was in the previous books.
The love between the queen and the king was a lot more tender in this story, although I was a little disappointed to find that the wedded Queen of Attolia kind of fades into the background.
But since Megan Whalen Turner has a great gift for storytelling, the third book in the King's Thief series was pretty damn un-put-downable too!
I. Love. This. Book. So. Much.Eugenides is back, and he's just as clever, sneaky, and conceited as ever! He is now the King of Attolia--well, in name, that is. Nobody wants to accept this queen-stealing, one-handed boy as king, especially Costis, a member of the queen's guard. But Costis learns that there is much more to this king than meets the eye...Edit to add: just re-read it for the umpteenth time. Still made of awesome.
My most favorite so far. This series is addicting.
I was bored to pieces. Even skim reading became hard. I can sum up the book in one sentence. Spoilers warning? I think not. My summary of this book:Everyone hates King Gen until his cleverness proves everyone wrong again. The end. 😂😂😂I’m not going to continue with this series. Luckily I didn’t but all these books based on how awesome the second book was for me. Even if they were all on book outlet cheap. I just don’t get the hype I guess... I’m sorry. I glad if you enjoyed this series though 😊
