https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/61959.Damia
This book is told through the POV of the man who babysits, befriends and eventually has babies with Damia, the Rowan's psychic daughter. Boring as only McCaffrey can manage.
I started this series last year and am so happy to have finally read the 2nd installment! McCaffrey has created a deeply imaginative world that has all the best bits of a good sci-fi: telekinesis, telepathy, CATS, aliens, teleportation, CATS, and just enough romance and sex to mature what could have turned out to be childish, into an edgy, emotion-filled, chronicle of a Talented family's adventures.
This is silly, this book isn't about Damia, it's about Afra.
Which is probably the right choice as he's more interesting than she is, given he's 24 years older than she is and by the end of the book she's only 19.
(Which has its own set of problems right there.)It's a middling book.
But you know, I think I've realized why this series wears on me; it's quite boring to read about hyper-privileged aristocrats who are spoilt, moody, confident of their skills and power and who never interact with the riff-raff.
Logical.
It's logical scientific almost way of writing, meant you couldn't get emotionally involved but you could be painfully curious in the world that exists in the future.
If you haven't read the first (like me) then don't worry about this one yet.
I felt like I was missing most things to fill in the gaps and was winging a fair bit to try and piece the story together.
I think if I'd read the previous text first, this one would have flowed better but that's more my fault.
So I think I will certainly go back and fill the gap.
Guilty-pleasure reading.
You know it is when you open the book and the inside of the cover is coated in unicorn stickers that you put there when you were eleven.If I were reading it for the first time now, at the age of *coughcough*, I probably wouldn't have enjoyed it.
As it is, I've always skimmed this book more than read it from cover-to-cover.
It's not the kind of book I read for the writing itself, it's the book I read for the ideas of the characters.
3.5 starsThis is my least favorite of all the Tower & Hive books, but I can't quite put my finger on the issue. (It should probably be called "Afra" too, but that's something else!) I do love the problems of dealing with Talented and gifted children!
This review is for the audiobook. I have been reading McCaffrey series including The Tower and Hive since a teenager so I have read them a number of times. Having the audiobook narration has been excellent. Listening instead of reading made for a refreshing telling.
Not my favorite of the Pegasus, and Tower and the Hive series but still very enjoyable and comfortable. Still loving my reread of these series!
after choosing to re-read The Rowan as the story of some highly dysfunctional people rather than as a grand romance, I read the first sequel as the story of how their children — particularly their second daughter/third child — had to learn how to deal with the world and their own psionic talents.
Her two older siblings had this weird sibling bond and they tended to leave her out of their games.
The first part of the book is a reverse angle story - it's many of the events of The Rowan from the point of view of Afra, one of the supporting characters.
I've always been curiously enraptured by this book, and I think I've finally figured out why -- because it holds back certain things I would have like answered.
Want to know what Damia's birth was like?
Nah, you'll get a quick sketch of an update, and LIKE IT.
Thank goodness after a book of very noble, lonely characters, McCaffery gives us The Chapter of Love and Quiet Moments Fishing, a single note of reflection in an otherwise very busy book spanning twenty eight years of the life of the male protagonist (another question, what does Capella's 'methody' ethic entail, really?)Whatever.
I did not love this book as much as the first time I read it some 15 years ago for a two reasons:The first 1/3 of the book is a recap of the previous book, but from Afra's point of view.
If I had read the other one some time ago, the recap might have been helpful, but because I moved straight on from the first one it was a little pointless.The relationship between Afra and Damia was just plain weird.
I tried to keep an open mind about it, but Afra had taken care of Damia like a father in the beginning and then they became lovers...
I agree with most that this book isn't so much about Damia as it is about Afra. that being said I adore Afra and thus love this book as I have loved almost all of Anne McCaffreys books. The immense worldbuilding she accomplishes is incredible and lends itself so well to character development.
Then, McCaffrey expanded the story, providing us with a novel full of filler.Inside those bound, Damia continues the family story begun in The Rowan.
We meet several characters, follow the development of both their personal and professional lives, culminating in a rehashing of the original short story, "Damia." The novel is almost entirely devoid of tension, anxiety, excitement, or charm.
The characters themselves feel rather dull to the touch, like dough where the yeast has died off.I'd love to say that expanding the story added something, deepened the setting, or increased our attachment to the characters, but it didn't.
Picked this up for a couple of quid at a second-hand bookshop on Charing Cross Road.
I’m a fan of McCaffrey’s ‘Dragonriders’ series, so thought I’d give it a whirl.It’s...
well, let’s be honest - it’s proper, old-fashioned sci-fi pulp.
Certainly I had no trouble getting to the end of the book.
And, actually, the worldbuilding was good.
I understand this is actually the sequel to another book, but I didn’t feel unable to follow it for that, or like I was missing a huge amount.TL;DR - If you enjoy pulp SF, you’ll probably enjoy this.
Otherwise, probably not.
Like the first book, I did enjoy reading it....
I realised that Primes are the 'Mary Sue' of Anne's mind.
I'm pretty sure mentally diminishing someone else's own Talent so that they will never work in a Tower again should have resulted in Damia having mental walls placed in her own mind so that she can't use her own Talent for a number of months...
Damia just gets a bit of a stern word from Afra...
not even getting sent to bed without dinner!!I did like the book but honestly, Damia is a bit of a twat.
I've never given 3 stars to a McCaffrey book.
I usually give 5 and an occasional 4.
Little talented girl growing up and getting into trouble occasionally.
There's not much an author can do with something like that and I suppose McCaffrey handles it as well as anyone.
I'm trying to do something similar with my current work and it's like pulling teeth, so I'll cut her some slack here because, so far, I'm not doing as well (I smell a massive rewrite coming or an abandoned manuscript).Anyway, the last quarter of the book picks up and saves the work, so I gave it 3 stars instead of fewer.
A romance set in a sci-fi setting.
The first quarter of this book basically retells the first book, Rowan, from the point of view of another character.
And it doesn't expound on enough new territory to merit it, I think.Once that's over, this book is largely a romance in space, which is totally fine.
Not quite as good as the first book, but felt like an okay 'girl coming of age' story.This book leaves less completed, and once you read it, you'll feel like you need to know what's going on with these aliens.
But the later books continue to be not quite as good.
Awesome storyThe conversion to kindle/e-format wasn’t very smooth, though. A fair number of typos like it was scanned in and not edited quite well enough (e.g., risking instead of rising). Read this series originally many years ago, and lost these books (among many) in the last move, so glad to see they made the transition even if it’s a bit rough. Definitely worth ignoring those spots.
Satisfying sci-fi romance!I read this when it was first published, years ago. My re read now showed me just how much I missed or forgot. Such an excellent First Contact tale! The expanded use of minds, the difficulties in raising talented youngsters. Anne can certainly write about more than Dragon ridersl She is and will be missed forever.
I am so enjoying reading this series again!I love everything Ms McCaffrey wrote, with the exception of her purely sci-fi ship ones. ;-) I am such a fantasy lover and these books really fill that love of not HOW things work but the relationships between the characters... the fantasy part of it versus the sci-fi part.Read them! You'll love them too! They are classics for a reason! :-D
Maybe I don’t wish we could do what they can do. Kids can get in enough trouble without psychic powers.
Love Anne's work but this is not her best... very strange romance and very little substance here. Take me back to Pern!
Much like the first, I liked the science fiction but not so much the romance(s). I enjoy many of the characters, but the romances feel fake, caricatured, and annoyingly instantaneous.
I had a hard time liking Damia. The characters do not seem as well flesh out as in some of her books.
I originally read this series from the library. Hooray for Kindle sales. Now that I have reread DAMIA, I have to reread the rest of series.
Another Good OneAlthough I do prefer the Dragonriders series, I like most anything Anne Mac Caffrey writes. This one does not disappoint.
Great seriesOne of my favorite authors. I have read most of if not all her books. She can make you lose your selve into her books and enjoy them very much.
Nice fluffy series about telepaths and the continuing saga of FT&T. Can't give it a 5 but if I said why it would spoil it.
When Damia finally gets her little brother, she keeps in touch with him over the vastness of space, and Lariad loves the sister he has never seen with all his little heart.
She wants more for her family than that, she wants them to have a successful career and to be an asset to her planet.After an accident on Earth, Damia is send to another planet, the mining planet Auriagae, to become their new Prime.
But one good thing has come from it all, Damia finally knows that Afra is her mate, and they become bonded, like her mother and Jeff Raven all those years ago.
****CONTAINS SPOILERS****This was perhaps the most openly sexual of all the Anne McCaffrey books that I've read.The sequel to The Rowan begins about halfway through the previous novel, but shifts focus from the Rowen to the character of Afra.
Most of her emotional explosiveness comes from her intense loneliness and until Jeff Raven arrives on the scene, Afra is her only means of control.The Rowan develops far enough to establish that she and Raven have two children, but Damia deals with their third child, a daughter whose name takes the title of the book.
