https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14743.The_God_Delusion
In simpler terms it’s: “So who made God?“ The only plausible explanation for the complexity of life on Earth is natural selection.Believer #2: The chances of having all the right conditions to develop life are so miniscule, it had to be done on purpose.Dawkins: It’s true the odds are probably about a billion to one.
And we know it happened here, so it could definitely happen again.Believer #3: Without God to teach us, we wouldn’t know good from evil.Dawkins: People all over the world make the same moral decisions in thought experiments, regardless of vast religious differences.
We do not need God to teach us good and evil.
Yet in bringing up Leviticus 19:18 (love your neighbor as yourself), and then arguing this means only other "Jews" (even though there was no such thing as "Judaism" when this book was written), he seems to forget Leviticus 19:32-33.
Another thing (are you sick of this yet?): in arguing that there most likely was no religious conviction in anyone who did anything good he said that Martin Luther King Jr. basically just got his ideas from Ghandi, who of course everyone knows wasn't "really" religious.
That is true for prosthelytizing believers of any religion, as well.(No one ever persuaded me to become a Christian by telling me I was going to Hell if I didn't.)But Dawkins manages the atheists' equivalent, and its my main quibble with atheists and their arguments.
It's well written, and somewhat well-argued (though Dawkins does engage in some sophistry, but not as bad as Sam Harris did in his book), but the tone of it is all wrong.
Because of that, I consider this book largely a masturbatory enterprise and not something that seeks to seriously put forth real arguments, or to promote understanding.
From the thousand Philistines that Sampson slew with the jawbone of an ass (Judges 15, 14-16), through the Conquistadores and the St. Bartholomew's Day massacre to the Thirty Years War, monotheists have shown time and time again that they are ruthless terrorists who will stop at nothing to spread their sick, perverted ideology.
Vote Trump!______________________[Update, May 18 2018]I hate to say I told you so, but Dimitrios Pagourtzis, the 17 year old psycho who today killed ten people in Santa Fe, also turns out to be a monotheist.
These monotheists must be stopped.
لا يقل الملحد المتعصب سذاجة عن المؤمن المتعصبكلاهما تكاد تراه محتقن الوجه من فرط الانفعال والتأثروهو يقفز لأعلى و أسفل مرددا : أنا صح .. أنا صحسأتعامل مع دوكينز هنا كمفكروأفصله عن العالم الذي يمتعنا بكتبه العلمية المتخصصةالعلماء بعيدا عن العلم يدعون أحيانا للرثاءفنادرا ما تجد من هو مثقف تثقيفا حقيقياوله عذره فعلمه وإسهاماته تكفيه وتكفيناولكن بعضهم يأبى إلا أن يخوض في ما لا يعرفيظن أنه بعلمه- مهما كان غزيرا يكفي لدراسة البشرية ومنظومتها الفكرية العقائديةولذا كثير من العلماء الذين يحاولون إثبات عد

I feel that while The Selfish Gene was a standalone book intended to convey a brilliant concept in a very articulate fashion to the general reader, The God Delusion is a more of a glorified pamphlet meant to be a handbook of reference for any atheist for the range of illogical, childish or even intelligent arguments that might be addressed to him.
An atheist who reads and remembers a fair bit of The God Delusion will always be well equipped to blunt any argument against his position.But this huge strength of the book is also its major flaw that demotes it much below the Selfish gene in my opinion.
Not merely because it represents my position on any theology, but because people won't come to trust or understand atheists unless they are willing to speak openly.It shouldn't be a dirty word in America, a country founded on dissent.
If you're already familiar with these arguments and their implications, then the book will make sense to you--if you aren't, then it's going to feel a bit incomplete.For example, at one point he talks about the idea of the 'sacred', that there are some things in religion which are not allowed to be discussed, and asks why this should be the case.
Though Dawkins is looking for everyone to read this book with an open mind, whether you’re devoutly religious, agnostic or atheist.
As human beings, we strive for companionship and the evidence speaks for itself when we look back to the time when there was a shift from the nomadic hunting and gathering societies to settling down in groups and communities, which started farming, large scale food production, and ultimately leading to technology, writing, law, art and so on.After this, Dawkins tackles the question of morality and makes it a very big deal that everyone understand we keep this separate from religion and not think them one and the same.
Still, I would like to expand on my initial review, and clarify my own position.I admire this book, and Dawkins's stand in general, because I think he is being decisive about pointing out a very serious problem in the world today.
I think most people who've read him would agree that Dawkins is a very moral person, and he isn't averse to moral principles that derive from traditional religion.
Although there seems to be correlation between violence, homocide, and arrogance with organized religion, is a state without a god any better (say, Maoist China)?
I think Dawkins has forgotten the most important axiom of science in his contentious ramblings and methodical deconstruction of ancient texts, history, and religion (of which he is no expert)...that correlation does not mean causation.
Dawkins is only emboldening the religion of science at the exprense of the world's major belief systems.
I just hope humanity will resist a "brave new world" in which organized religion is replaced by other systems that devalue human life in the name of progression and knowledge.
I'm going to get the criticism out of the way before I move on to why I *love* this book.Richard Dawkins is not an easy read.
That isn't reasoning, beyond the simple 'I say it ain't so, so it ain't so'.At other times the book is a very clear explanation of the evolutionary pathway which may have led to humans becoming susceptible to such simple fairy stories.The second half of the book then concentrates on the downsides of religion and argues for all sensible, intelligent non-believers to make their voices heard, to help the scales fall from the eyes of those infected with faith.What I particularly loved about this book is that I have been atheistic for many years (more than half my life, and I'm almost forty now), but this is the first time I've read a really coherent, well argued text on what is wrong with religion (all of them).
As a man of faith with a passionate interest in science, I understand -- and personally experience -- both sides of the God vs.
Methinks he doth mock too much.)Most disappointing, Dawkins attempts to discredit the subjective experience of God by asserting that there are lots of crazy people out there, and the religious must simply be afflicted with a form of mental illness.
That's why it's so easy for him to dismiss subjective experience -- because he doesn't have any.The book is worth the read just so you know what all the hubub is about and so you can understand that modern atheism as represented by Dawkins is a bland meal.
داوکینز در کتاب پندار خدا عنوان می‌کند که خالق فراطبیعی به احتمال قریب به یقین وجود ندارد؛ و باور به خدا باور کاذبی ست، که در برابر تمام شواهد موجود سخت‌ جانی می‌کند.
او با این نظرِ رابرت پیرسیگ هم‌نوا می‌شود که: «هنگامی که یک نفر دچار توهم می‌شود، دیوانه‌ اش می‌گویند.
هنگامی که افراد بسیاری دچار یک توهم می‌شوند، مؤمن‌ شان می‌خوانند.»؛ شروع متن: وقتی همسرم کوچک بود از مدرسه نفرت داشت، و میخواست ترک تحصيل کند.
پاسخ لالا همان نکته ی مورد نظر کتاب من است: اما نمیدانستم که میتوانم.
نمیدانستم که میتوانم.؛ پایان نقل.
As an agnostic I can wholeheartedly promise you that this book is so tedious it will reduce you to tears. He debunks God as a concept and in the process completely misses the point of God. He then just carries on repeating himself through chapter after chapter after boring chapter. If there really was a god, he wouldn't allow people like this idiot to write mind numbing drivel and then market it with tacky gimmicks like the "Come all ye faithless" Christmas Card I got with mine....I should have smelt a rat there and then.
Regardless of your religious beliefs, I urge you to read this book.
Dawkins is never likely to make that same mistake.I was brought up an atheist and so am fascinated that people can actually believe in religion.
It was only after reading the Bible and talking to 'Christians' that I realised that many people don't believe in religion at all - well, not in Australia at least.
But at other times I feel much as Dawkins does - that there is simply too much at stake to leave the fate of the world in the hands of people who believe in sky gods who are coming to fix things.
He mentions that only about one in twelve British children break away from the religious beliefs of their parents as evidence of the power of such indoctrination.He is sneakily arrogant at times, quoting big names such as Einstein and where the quote doesn’t appear to say quite what he wants it to, he assumes they expressed themselves badly and actually meant something else (“I simply do not believe that Gould could possibly have meant much of what he wrote”)!Marx was snappier, but Seneca or Gibbon (see comment #14), quoted by Napoleon, had the same idea rather earlier when he said, “Religion is regarded by the common people as true, by the wise as false and by the ruler as useful”.
لا نستطيع أن نحيد قيد أنملة عن أسطرنا التي سطرت لنا؟ هل شاهدتم يوما شخصية روائية استطاعت اكتشاف أن ما تراه من قوانين العالم حولها ليس إلا كلمات يمكن تغييرها من قبل المؤلف بجرة قلم؟ اللهم إلا أن يرغب المؤلف بأن يخبرها بماهيتها، و ضمن الحبكة...0أنا إنسانة غير واقعية معظم الوقت، أو دعني أقول لا أحب أن أركن للظاهر و الواقع كثيرا، و ربما لم يضرب على عصبي شيء و يرفع ضغطي من الكتاب برمته أكثر من قوله أن: "أليس الكون بجماله كاف حتى نحتاج للبحث عن وجود شيء وراءه؟!" لاء يا عمي...
I feel the need to insert a negative review from a believer of evolution and a harsh critic of organized religion.
His basic assertion that faith and science are inextricably entangled is sound.
However, he leaps off this logical diving board and into a mess of false simplifications about the nature of faith, the logic of science, and the lives of atheists vs.
believers.
If you want to figure out if evolution is real, read some biology books and take a walk outside.
This trash is only for people who require a heightened sense of superiority as reward for being an atheist.
خليني أعترف إني في البداية كنت متخوف من التجربة..القراءة عن الإلحاد..من ملحد!عجيبة الكوميديا في بلدن
Alternatively, this book could have been titled "One Man's Love Affair with Natural Selection". A very informative read, but in favor of discretion, I think I'll keep my opinions on the issue to myself.
Right now, I kind of know what the Bible means when it says in PsalmsThe fool hath said in his heart that there is no GodIt's because of the giant ineluctible fact that there IS an IS - that things exist rather than not exist.
And he'll make another one right there in his bathtub.*****THE PREVIOUS RANTHere are a few things I want to know now : - The fundamentalists reject evolution and therefore geology too.
You know, like they used to believe the fossils were put there by God to test the faith of Christians...
Όμως πιστεύω ότι πρέπει να διαβαστεί με προσοχή ακόμα και από ανθρώπους που πιστεύουν (ή κυρίως από αυτούς), γιατί προσφέρει παρηγοριά και εναλλακτικές - πειστικές - απαντήσεις σε πολύ βασικά ερωτήματα που η θρησκεία, στο βαθμό που έχει εξελιχθεί η επιστήμη, δεν μπορεί (και θα ηταν αστείο απλως και μόνο να περιμένουμε κάτι τέτοιο) να εξηγήσει.
Και στο τελευταίο κεφάλαιο μας λέει τι υπάρχει πέρα και μετά τη θρησκεία, ανοίγοντας ένα μικρό παράθυρο στα υπέροχα όσο και τρομακτικά σημεία που μπορεί να φτάσει ο ανθρώπινος νους μέσω της επιστήμης, μέσω της κατανόησης ότι ο κόσμος που βλέπουμε ως πραγματικο στην πραγματικότητα είναι απλως η εκδοχή του κόσμου όπως έχει εξελιχθεί ο εγκέφαλος μας να τον εκλαμβάνει.
Feeling ignorant and ashamed of this, I generally would let such remarks pass, but they haunted me.The study of Latin in high school was a start in unpacking such nebulous words via etymology.
Along the way, on a few occasions, I even encountered a few apparently non-human, but intelligent, entities, some by my own intention via "consciousness-expanding" drugs, some quite by surprise--enough, in any case, to appreciate the possible experiential bases for belief in such extraordinary entities.Then, of course, there are dreams.
I paid a lot of attention to dreams, keeping daily records of them for at least six years, reading books about dream theory.Dawkins, unfortunately, appears to have done very little study about any of this.


Rape of a child is worse, and his case is not strengthened by the comparison.The second weakest part of the book was Dawkin's attempted explanations for how religion or belief in god fulfills some sort of survival need (natural selection) or some genetic imperative.
And I always have to LOL big-time about (even worse) a god who would doom a living thing to eternal torture just because she or he DIDN'T BELIEVE IN HIM.
I thought this was a very strong premise to contradict those who claim that morality can have no grounding without god.
The first half of The God Delusion is a thoughtful, fact based response to religion, one that I thoroughly enjoyed.
I decided to get to know my own religion more intimately by reading From Jesus to Christianity: How Four Generations of Visionaries and Storytellers Created the New Testament and Christian Faith, The Gnostic Discoveries: The Impact of the Nag Hammadi Library, A History of the Roman World 753 to 146 BC and The Other Bible.I wanted to go from purely fact-based, research-focused books, perhaps because I already had a sense that what I was being told would be skewed.

No blows beneath the belt.Instead, Dawkins adopts an aggressive adversary stance, like he seriously believes religionists are all fucking crazy and, left to their own devices, threaten the lives of everybody else.His tone in the beginning is scornful, scowling and sarcastic, then he indulges in a bit of name calling, until finally he pulls out all the big and little adjectives: smug, nasty, fatuous, unpalatable, vindictive, presumptuous, divisive, odious, horrifying, repellent, wanton, callous, obnoxious.His attitude towards all religions seems to be, I can't believe you believe this shit!Fight to the DeathYou don't get the sense Dawkins respects the other side of the debate.You don't get the sense he wants a polite and reasonable adjudication at the end.
