https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2412552.The_Voyages_of_Sindbad
Enjoyed this immensely!

These adventures of Sinbad’s became so repetitive in such a short book.
Get’s on a ship, ends up overboard or stranded and has to find his way home.
I would definitely say this book is for children 7 and up.
It does talk about sailors drowning and dying etc...It’s a chapter book for children with some small pictures on the pages.
There are also some comic book style thought bubbles coming out of some of the pictures.
After reading this, it makes me want to read the real stories of Sinbad the sailor.
I know the adventures where much more entertaining and filled with excitement.
Simbad es impresionante :)
Hasta que conozco la historia jajaja!!
Mieux, le texte qu'en donna Galland, et que la plupart des éditeurs ont repris d'après lui, n'est que « l'adaptation », fort édulcorée, d'un roman composé à Bagdad dès le IXe siècle.
Khawam en donne ici la première traduction intégrale, établie à partir des manuscrits anciens.Et nous découvrons avec émerveillement un « autre » Sindbad, infiniment plus proche de la réalité historique de l'époque, même si l'aventure, avec son cortège de monstres et de magiciens, est toujours au rendez-vous.
C'est à partir de ces relations improvisées que les maîtres conteurs du moyen âge arabe ont tissé la trame de ce récit, prototype de tous les romans d'aventures à venir."
Seven voyages.
Seven missions.
The former was amazed to be told of seven journeys to foreign lands, every one ending in shipwreck.
As he listens, the traveler describes a flight on a giant bird, battles with foes including giant serpents, brutal cannibals and the murderous Old Man of the Sea, and the discovery of diamonds.
Sindbad the Sailor has grown rich from his travels--but his path to fortune has been anything but easy...This volume also includes "The Tale of Ma'aruf the Cobbler": both tales proving to be entertaining reads and never one to disappoint.Book Details: Title Vol. XX: The Voyages of Sindbad (Penguin Epics)Author Anonymous (trans.
Being part of so many book clubs means I'm often compelled to read things I wouldn't otherwise have chosen for myself.
Such is the story of my encounter with this slim volume.
An easy and entertaining read on a summer's day, each of Sindbad's voyages is more outlandishly dangerous and remarkable than the last.
From Rocs to a charnel cave, apes, giants, cannibals and tons of treasure, Sindbad survives to tell the tale ...
It makes me want to break out the Odyssey again, as these classic adventure stories remain truly timeless in their spirit and magic.
Formulaic in the best sense, like the oldest stories that were built for memory across generations, but the inner story of each voyage is great fun, like the story of the rocs, the giant birds. These seafaring tales of a trader with a love of travel also offer insights into the ancient world.
Mega clássico da literatura mundial, não tem como não se deleitar em suas páginas. Tendo sempre em mente que o melhor é não pegar nada de segunda mão, quem ler este livro vai beber na fonte de inúmeras variações e influências na cultura ocidental. O gênero fantástico torna ainda mais interessante.
The adventures of sindbad were amazing. I really liked it. I want to read it once more.
becasue it certainly does not seem real.when i went traveling the other year, i but all of my books and other things on some shelves in my ex-girlfriends house and when i came back i got all that stuff back.
like maybe a stranger or new friend would come to my quarters and think "woah, this dude has interests and likes specific things and probably has something about life figured out." what an idiot!
you know, like maybe a close family member got real sick and, voila!, theres a good reason to move back closer to them.
No me gustó nada este libro que me hicieron leer en clase. Nuestro “héroe” no es un muy buen ejemplo para esta historia que es un cuento para niños, ya que prefiere matar a la gente de las maneras más atroces que tener que morir el, es machista y racista... 🙄no lo leáis
Sindbad is quite the sharp operator, constantly beating the odds because of his willingness to cheat or kill any friend or foe standing in his way.
Maybe I fail to appreciate the subtleties of the Oriental mind, but Sindbad seems to me a very questionable hero (or maybe he is the original anti-hero) and the antithesis of post-Greek, Western heroes who were paragons of honesty and fair-dealing.
Such perfect personages may indeed be unrealistic, but at least they possess characteristics to which we should aspire, which is more than I can say for Sindbad who can most charitably be described as a survivor.
Con este libro pasaras por muchas aventuras, 7 para ser precisos. Es un libro que deja muy buenas reflexiones, en especial sobre lo importante que es valorar la vida que tenemos y que en los momentos más difíciles, cuando parece no haber salida, la esperanza te sacará adelante. También analizándolo desde un punto de vista financiero, da muy buenos tips de qué debe hacerse para generar una mayor riqueza, y como no siempre el dinero es la solución para ser más ricos, y cómo esforzándote en el trabajo que realices obtendrás muchos beneficios.
It is a simple story, but i sometimes felt bored from voyage and another...but it is very interesting for kids they will like it a lot..And the moral from this story in my opinion "Use your mind" that some of us forget that they have MIND..As i think the reason is they wanna humor the life and escape from live a real life what is they need to do..From this story Sindbad could skip his hard situations in all his seven voyages by used his mind.
This is the first book I've ever read, I was 8 years old and I barely knew how to read. I found the book and had the child curiosity to know what's inside, I started reading and it turned out to be a pleasing experience it took me like a month to finish it but it was definitely a fascinating book full of magical places and supernatural creaturesSinbad was the hero during his voyages throughout the seas, he has fantastic adventures meeting monsters and encountering supernatural phenomena.
A great way to introduce these stories to kids who can listen to a longer book. Quentin Blake's lively illustrations and John Yeoman's retellings (the two also teamed up for the great Mouse Trouble, one of the funniest picture books around) are a perfect match and the large format is gorgeous. Very nicely done.
Read when I was still young, this story (better than Gulliver's Travels) has the potential for making kids more interested for fiction. Although elders won't enjoy it, but gift this to kids & they'll remember you for a long time.
Simbá, o herói dessas histórias, embarca em um navio mercante movido pela curiosidade de conhecer o mundo e ganhar algum dinheiro. Partindo do porto de Basrah, ele viaja pelos sete mares e vive grandes aventuras.
I found a copy translated into English, but I did not realize how small the print was. Despite bifocals and perseverance I could not read the book...a first for me! Perhaps I need a new category....age related inability to read....
How he wanted to go on a second voyage is beyond me, and after 3 mishaps you really think he ought to have learned. Totally unbelievable.
Really missed it when I finished it. Love the bravery in this character!
Ressenya en català:http://www.elkraken.com/R-sindbad.htmlReseña en castellano:http://www.elkraken.com/Esp/R-sindbad...
J 398.2 DAY-[FOL]
This book was ma first introduction to Sindbad. I liked the book a lot. Since then,I have always enjoyed Sindbad's tales and adventures that appear in one children's magazine or the other.
ePagine
Retelling. Pretty watercolor illustrations sprinkled throughout the book.
mmm
Fun read!!
