https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8248.By_the_Shores_of_Silver_Lake
Sniffs. Wipes away tear  Laura knew then that she was not a little girl any more. Now she was alone; she must take care of herself. When you must do that, then you do it and you are grown up.  Oh, they grow up so fast, don't they? I do wish that this series could stay with Laura as a young girl - running around and having adventures with Ma, Pa and her sisters. But, Laura Ingalls Wilder wrote this as autobiographical and so her younger-self had to grow.Gone are the isolated cabins in Wisconsin a
Laura knew then that she was not a little girl any more.
I do wish that this series could stay with Laura as a young girl - running around and having adventures with Ma, Pa and her sisters.
But, Laura Ingalls Wilder wrote this as autobiographical and so her younger-self had to grow.Gone are the isolated cabins in Wisconsin and here is the bustling brand-new town of DeSmet.
town
The girls have to go to school and behave like little ladies - but if you think that will stop Laura from letting loose, then you have another thing coming.
One of the things I love about this series is how the prose grows with the protagonist. Four-year-old Laura lives in a world with short sentences and simple feelings, and thirteen-year-old Laura, who has had to broaden her vocabulary to help describe things to her blind sister, inhabits a text that is intricately described and which gives a broader overview of events and situations.
My favorite part was when they went out in the shanty, and when they got- do you want me to tell you the surprising part that I liked, or the regular part that I liked?D: Start with the regular part.E: My favorite parts were the ones with the littlest sister, Grace!
What other parts did you like in the book?E: I liked when they talked about the Shepherdess, because they hadn't talked about her in a REALLY long time.D: Anything else?E: Something big happened to Mary, Laura, Carrie, Ma, and Pa!
These books give such a view into the psyche of America back when the land was being settled.
One of the best parts of the book is toward the end.
The Ingalls family are living out on the prairie alone during the winter.
The Ingalls have the only house so they all stay with them.
The most intense part of the book is the day Charles goes to claim the homestead and 15 men come through and need to spend the night.
It was a deeply unsettling piece to read.
She is a killjoy in the book.
I will read more of these.
This was a charming book to read on Christmas Day. Last summer I started rereading the Laura Ingalls Wilder series, and this fifth one was a delight."By the Shores of Silver Lake" covers the family's move to the Dakota territory at about 1879, when Pa gets a job working for the railroad.
It's a lovely story.It was fortunate that I started rereading the books last year, since there is a new annotated autobiography out about Laura Ingalls Wilder ("Pioneer Girl"), and I want to finish the series before I read that.
Another enjoyable read. Laura is growing up and while the story is still kid friendly there are some more serious things that happened that made it less lighthearted than the previous book. A couple things early on even made me cry a little (view spoiler)[ Jack the dog's death and learning that Mary went blind due to an illness that occurred somewhere between this book and the last. (hide spoiler)] In spite of these sad things it was still interesting to see the way Laura is maturing and becomin
) Neither girl seems interested in marriage at this point, though they sing an innocent little song about wanting to marry a railway man instead of a farmer.A very young child is feared to be missing at one point but (view spoiler)[ is later found unharmed (hide spoiler)]
It is impossible for me to read these books without images of the TV show in my head, Michael Landon as Pa Ingalls taking his family west to the unsettled wilderness of the Dakota Territory.
Mary is already blind, Laura is urged to be the family teacher (against her will, since she wants to be more independent than this), and much of the book is focused on just surviving a hard winter.
Which is a devastation you don't really get the feel for in this volume, and why most people don't want to read these books anymore.
It was toward the beginning of this novel that I abandoned the Little House books at age eleven, and to a large degree, I blame the television series.
Twelve-year-old Laura realizes that just as she has put her old rag doll Charlotte away, she’s too old to run around playing with a dog along the prairie.
I guess Michael Landon didn’t think the viewing public wanted Laura to grow up just yet.
So while the Little House books aren’t necessarily vocabulary builders for older readers, they’re most definitely a slice of history, and that goes for all ages.
I've always thought that this is where the series really started to grow up and mature, much like Laura herself. Sure, bad things happened in previous books, but you never really felt it, quite like you do here. I still always cry about Jack, and I always feel so sad about Mary, and about how Laura takes it upon herself to make sure Mary gets to go to college, no matter what Laura has to do.
I'm also kind of shocked at the changes that have *already* occurred in the land - the Native American population is gone, and many times it's mentioned that "the buffalo are gone" and that Laura will never see one in her lifetime; she sees the last buffalo wolf the winter before the town is settled, but in fact it has already left - just makes one lonely return journey with its mate to visit its old den before heading out west.
I still like Farmer Boy a little bit better, but of the stories about the Ingalls family, this one is the strongest so far.
Charles Ingalls is definitely the main character of the series.
Through the absolutely adoring eyes of Laura, our narrator, we see what a kind and loving father he was.
Based on the events of the series so far, he was really weird.
In a society where women like the Ingalls women had almost no power, Charles dragged the five women in his family back and forth across the continent.
And they loved him!
And loved each other and made it work.
This one begins so sadly, with two years since Plum Creek has ended, the family sick with Scarlet Fever, and Mary now blind.
Clearly, it was a sad and difficult time, but I find their fortitude inspiring and I wish there was more about that time.
Laura us much more grown up in this one-- I feel there is a separation between Plum Creek, the last book where she is truly still a little girl, and this one, where she is expected to behave more ladylike and to now care for Mary and take on the burden of Mary's chores.Almanzo makes a brief appearance in this one, as well.
This is a series I read so much in childhood, and at least once as an adult, that I really didn't think it had anything more to offer me, but after reading Pioneer Girl: The Annotated Autobiography, Laura's unpolished, first draft, autobiography, I felt an itch to pick up the Little House Books again.
I read this:"Her blue eyes were still beautiful, but they did not know what was before them, and Mary herself could never look through them again to tell Laura what she was thinking without saying a word."Yeah, this still has something to offer, familiar or not, it's just so good.
This isn't my favorite of the Little House books, but I still enjoyed it. Reading through as an adult, I am so amazed at the things "Ma" went through - wow. I love the view of settling the American West through the eyes of a child - they were in some really dangerous situations. Anyway, it's a great "comfort food" series for me.
So Mary went blind in between books and it was just barely touched on? Weird, but okay. This book was pretty exciting in its events, as has been the trend. I can't imagine how terrifying to be entirely by yourselves on the prairie like that, especially with the men threatening Pa.
Audiobook performed by the Cherry JonesWilder wrote this series of autobiographical novels in the early 1900s, and they are classics of children’s literature.
This is the fifth book in the Little House series, wherein the Ingalls family heads to the Dakota Territory.
They are blessed, indeed.Cherry Jones is simply marvelous performing the audio books.
She brings Laura to life, and through her performance the listener experiences the excitement of a first train ride, the anxiety of waiting for Pa to return, the joy of Christmas morning with the family.
These books are just a joy to read.
What blows me away every time about all Laura Ingalls Wilder books is how she can put me right in the place of someone seeing the world change in extraordinary ways that have nothing to do with the 21st century.
The books are instructive in how the popular perception of Manifest Destiny was was taken for granted by all European Americans in the era of Westward expansion, with no thought toward the history of the continent before they arrived.
This theme of the Little House books always brings up such a visceral response in me because my love for them runs deep but so does my tendency toward the critical attack.
Read to Meg (11) and Kate (7).
The first two chapters have sad developments, and the following chapters include almost painfully long descriptions of landscapes, machines, and household tasks.
The family is isolate for most of the book.
Although I was a huge fan of the series as a child, I do not remember this one being a favorite.
While 3 stars may be too generous, one redeeming quality is that the book captures Laura's transition from a happy child to the adult she will become.
The reader sees that Laura's life will be defined in a large way by her sister's blindness.
শুরুটা হয় একটা খারাপ খবর দিয়ে। মেরির দুই চোখ অনধ হয়ে গিয়েছে। কিনতু লেখিকা যেভাবে সাবলীল ভাবে বরণনা করে গেলেন!!! অসাধারণ !! আরেকটা জিনিস খুব ভালো লাগল যে, আগের বই গুলোতে চার বছরের লরা যেভাবে জিনিসগুলা দেখেছে এখন ১৩ বছর বয়সে তার চেয়ে কতটা পরিণত ভাবে জিনিসগুলা বরণনা করছে। গলপের শেষ দিকে আলমানযো মিয়াকেও দেখা গেল। খুব শীঘরই মনে হয় দুইজনের দেখা হতে চলেছে :D মিডটারম আর ফাইনালের মাঝের চাপের মধযে রিফরেশমেনট এর জনযে একদম পারফেকট একটা বই। :)
শুরুটা হয় একটা খারাপ খবর দিয়ে। মেরির দুই চোখ অন্ধ হয়ে গিয়েছে। কিন্তু লেখিকা যেভাবে সাবলীল ভাবে বর্ণনা করে গেলেন!!! অসাধারণ !! আরেকটা জিনিস খুব ভালো লাগল যে, আগের বই গুলোতে চার বছরের লরা যেভাবে জিনিসগুলা দেখেছে এখন ১৩ বছর বয়সে তার চেয়ে কতটা পরিণত ভাবে জিনিসগুলা বর্ণনা করছে। গল্পের শেষ দিকে আলমানযো মিয়াকেও দেখা গেল। খুব শীঘ্রই মনে হয় দুইজনের দেখা হতে চলেছে :D মিডটার্ম আর ফাইনালের মাঝের চাপের মধ্যে রিফ্রেশমেন্ট এর জন্যে একদম পারফেক্ট একটা বই। :)
Perhaps my least favorite of the four I've read so far, but I still can't give it anything less than five stars. Most of the second half is wonderful! I guess, like Laura, I just didn't love the town and busy-busy aspects of their lives in this one but it was still well written.
The best part of the whole book was where Almanzo's family was mentioned, tbh. Super boring.
I don't think I will ever grow tired of these stories. I love them too much. Oh, what adventures they had.
This is not my favorite out of the Little House books, but still a really good story! The writing is beautiful, and the more I reread this series, the more I love it!
I’m sure I totally identified with Laura and Mary as a child but rereading them as an adult, I cannot stop putting myself in Ma’s place, constantly moving and having to establish a new home from scratch.
I can read between the lines as an adult and understand that Ma was not thrilled to not be settled, be annoyed at Pa for his restlessness (while still appreciating his persistence in providing for his family) and be impressed at the closeness of the family and how they always manage to build a home where contentment and unselfishness reign.
Oh, fuck. Guys, this is the one when Jack dies. If you thought I cried when Jack gets swept away crossing the river in Little House on the Prairie, you ain't seen nothing yet. Jack's death was so painful. Such a good dog. Hope that he's up there running around, chasing rabbits. Maybe he met Buford when he arrived, like the doggie Saint Peter.
Peaceful This book from the Little House series is peaceful and content. I have visited the land they set up their farm on so it is very dear to my heart! I even spent the night on their homestead!
This cover is fantastic. Oh my tomboy days when I dearly wanted to be like Laura.....
I remember that the shift in tone and the time gap between On the Banks of Plum Creek and By the Shores of Silver Lake was a jarring one, even when I read these as a kid.
Laura is a child at the end of Plum Creek, but she's almost a grown-up at the beginning of Silver Lake.
(hide spoiler)] Laura deals with a lot of adult problems in this book, and the happy-go-lucky tone of the first books doesn't really return again in the series, except maybe for a brief spell in These Happy Golden Years.
This book told the story of the Ingalls family helping form a brand new town and the process of claiming their homestead. I’ve learned a lot from these books about what life was like during the early days of the United States and am beginning to get very interested in them.
Since we last left the Ingalls family, they have come down with scarlet fever and Mary is now blind.
The scary thing is, Laura's now 13, which means it's been a couple years since the last book left off.
I become pretty convinced reading through this book that after Jack dies, Laura's the one in the family that has to step up and keep things together.
There was only emptiness to turn to instead of Jack's eyes looking up to say that he was there to take care of her.Laura knew then that she was not a little girl any more.
