https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/139569.Stone_Butch_Blues
there is no other book, in my opinion, that divides a class so radically -- some students love this book and cant stop reading it, despite acknowledging that it is one depressing representation of americas history of hatred against those who live outside of the gender binary, and others hate it for the writing style, which is admittedly not the most sophisticated out there.
other students hate it because they simply refuse to believe that anyone can be treated in this manner in america, but that is an entirely different subject for another forum.
It's a devastating and powerful book, and refuses to step away from how difficult life was then, and how for many people it still is.
That being said, it's also frustrating how other people would ever deny that life for us was ever this bad, or even that homophobia and transphobia are 'real' issues.
Though this book is classified as fiction, it is distinctly 'real'.
But this book is about the 'blues', isn't it?
Tragedy and brutality are only a part of life.
Remember the dead and take care of the living.
We all live as best as we can anyway.
This is one.I'd only heard of this book in passing, being that I was vaguely familiar with Leslie Feinberg.
If we're being candid, I'm sorry it took me so long to read hir (Feinberg preferred genderless pronouns) stuff because I wish I could shoot off an email to hir personally.
I hurt for Jess' character.
I hurt for a lot of the characters.
The character faces a heinous (and believable) amount of abuse from the cops, supposed loved ones, and general public--cis men, especially.
Sometimes, it seems like whatever bad could happen, happened.This book tackles lesbian and trans topics as well as race and the treatment of femme characters.
I had put off reading Stone Butch Blues for well over a decade.
Later, I resisted reading it because I didn't want to like the thing everyone else liked and assumed I would like.Across those many years, a new canon had emerged: trans women's literature.
Nor were most of the other trans women's lit books coming out.
They had a primary intended audience of lesbian/queer (mostly white) trans women - my own experiences as a trans woman primarily attracted to men didn't find a home there.
This book, in spite of its flaws, is the essence of what trans lit should be.
But I HAD to give 5-stars to this book.
I almost feel as if it is cliche to say this book is AMAZING since so many people feel the same way.
Utterly heartbreaking at times, this book will take you through the entire rainbow of emotions as you read it.
I consider this book to be a must-read for everyone.
I feel like if everyone were to read this book, so many things could be different in our world that is far to run by the gendered binaries and heteronormativity that exist within our society.
I would HIGHLY recommend this book to anyone and everyone!
No onewill ever want to sleep with you."Richard Siken, CrushI finished Stone Butch Blue and I can't let go of the book at all, still I'm holding it, I feel attached to it.
Jess's journey is so beautiful and painful, I love how it ended with her finding her own strength.
I'm so fascinated by the depth of her passion.I've never read something so touching, so deep, I bet Jess was a Scorpio.Leslie Feinberg's style is like poetry, it's beautiful, it flows, it's raw and bares all, leaving no emotion hidden.
Right from that painful opening letter, brutally honest, more beautiful than anything.I know for sure that Stone Butch Blues will never leave me.
Indeed, Stone Butch Blues is a groundbreaking and monumental accomplishment.But that doesn't mean it's any good.There's a nice twist of irony in that every other character in the book is an over the top cliché.
The same problem comes through in dialogue between Jess and every other character in the book.
It makes it hard to care about what happens and even more difficult to see Jess as a real person which is, perhaps, the ultimate irony.So we'll give it a point for being groundbreaking at the time – that's always worth something in my book.
Massacres like this should not happen, and while I could now go on to talk about the ease of purchasing semi-automatic firearms, I will not right now - the point I make is that there is still too much fucking hate and intolerance.I was reading this book last weekend and after hearing about Orlando and reading article after article about the updates that followed, I had to put this book on hold.
I had to put this book on the back burner last weekend because what happened in Orlando was so similar to what Jess was experiencing in the book, though instead of semi-automatic firearms, Jess was beaten regularly just for going to a bar, often by cops, and she was threatened to be raped.
The writing feels really unpolished and forced, the characters lack any depth or description, and a lot of the narrative seems like a cold retelling of historical facts.
But since I wasn't totally familiar with the phrases going in, I felt lost for a lot of the action in the first half.
And the narrator never really describes what made hir feel more male.
Our gender binary is doing some serious damage to a lot of people.
It is so easy to write off gender-queer folks.
270)But damn, we still have a LONG way to go on making our society safe for gender-queer people.
But i have to say besides all the reasons everyone loves this book I remember the exact moment I read the opening letter in this book and how I was totally blown away.
I read it like 3 times before i moved on to the rest of the book, and I wanted everyone (including myself) to have the courage to write friends and loved ones such amazing letters.
Then of course I went on the rest of the book which also blew me away and now 8 years later I still love this book and the opening letter.

This book was just phenomenal.
I don't think I've cried so much on public transport reading anything.
I've read a lot of books about being queer in the 50s and 60s but none of them were anywhere near as honest as this.
The book covers several decades and looks at how ideas to gender and sexuality have changed over that time.
I can't explain why it is the trans butch stories that speak to me the most but this was one of the most moving books I've read.
It desperately needs reprinting so everyone can read it.
It's been a long time since I've been able to invest myself in a book.
I run around with ten projects on the go every day, and when I try to relax at night by reading I just look through the page and don't absorb a thing.
That being said, this is the first book that I have truly loved in a very long time.
It was a hard read too, so much pain and isolation, and yet it was so beautiful.
I can't explain without it sounding like a broadly brushed cliche, but it put me in a hard fought, beautiful world, and I loved every minute of it.

Isn't this distance also real?"Warning: This is a ramble.THIS is the book that caused my recent reading and reviewing slump.
And while I admit to being the first to criticise other books for manipulative writing (yes, I am looking at you, The Book Thief), it works in the favour of Stone Butch Blues because the book is somewhat rugged.
Stone Butch Blues does not try to manipulate with pompous / pretentious writing.
However, I wanted to know why.Having thought about it, I did not like this book because it is important or moving.
I love when a book storms through my life and shakes my core and makes me see what other people, different than I, see.
On many occasions I was beyond appalled by the discrimination these characters have faced, mainly because it rooted my feet to the ground of the world that I am living in; that these people still exist in our day and age, and that anyone different faces that sort of discrimination on a daily basis.Thanks, Nouf, for lending me this precious book and for giving me a piece of your soul.
Sull'oppressione subita a causa dell'orientamento sessuale.
Sull'odore e sui rumori dei manicomi, sui poliziotti-rieducatori.
Sono pagine sulla diversità, ma soprattutto sul non sapere a chi assomigliare.Sulla diversità da sé e sull'impossibilità di sostenerla.
Sulla diversità da sé e sulla possibilità di sostenerla.
Sul rischio.
Sui momenti in cui il rischio di morte non è il peggiore.
È un libro di lotta.Un'opera sull'amore in cui l'amore non è la soluzione: è essere l'alba o il crepuscolo di qualcuno.
Più spesso l'alba e il crepuscolo.
Molto raramente quel momento di infinite possibilità che li collega.Sono pagine che ti riportano al tredicesimo canto dell'Inferno.
This book destroyed me. Even when I put it down, I felt like I was still inside it. The narrator's pain and isolation are painted so vividly and with so much care that reading it is like being lovingly shot in the face. If there's a sadder, more heartbreaking, more powerful book than this, I honestly don't want to know about it.
If you are looking for a book to read so that you understand the experience of an LGBTQ person, this is (the) one to read.
In short, if you are curious about the LGBTQ experience/history, if you are trying to explain your (or someone else's) LBGTQ experience to someone or want to understand the experience of someone who is gender queer or transgender, this is a wonderful tool with which to do so.
This book does a wonderful job of bringing in the changes that were going on in the world into the personal story of the main character.
In a highly truncated version – it is about a he-she Jess Goldberg and follows her through her life exposing us to her traumatic experiences, and the constant struggle she goes through as a child, to growing up in bars, to figuring her own identity, to hiding under guises and finally learning that her gender identity is nothing short of being unique and celebrated.Stone butch blues deals with gender contradiction, fluctuation, fluidity and ambiguity; and some brutal issues like discrimination, rape, police brutality, transgender politics, trying to find self-acceptance, and worst of all love.
Every person should be able to be live open and proud of their identity.
The reason why I am giving this book 3 stars is because as much as I loved the book, I also had trouble getting behind the writing. I don't like prose-y language but I also don't like obvious metaphors and this book tends to be full of them. It makes sense why the author includes them but I also had a hard time not rolling my eyes when I came across one.
I read this a looooong time ago so I can't write a proper review and my rating is one of reverence rather than one of storytelling, literary meaning and merit, etc. If I read it again I will do my best to write a more in-depth review...
I sometimes forget that there was a time when we were not safe. It is good to be reminded. Each kiss on the street corner tastes sweeter with freedom.
It wasn't easy to read though, if only because we live in a society that reacts with horrifying fear and violence to difference -- something that thankfully is changing, and all because of women like Leslie Feinberg.
A young man on a nearby rooftop released his pigeons, like dreams, into the dawn (301).As a writer and activist, the afterword (written 10 years after) contained individual words to cherish, just as I do the whole of the story and struggle of Jess's life that the novel offers like a gift.
I LOVED this book so much I devoured it in a day. It was so effing good I can't stand it.
Incredible, deep, super meaningful, love love love LOVE
I pulled the book from my bookshelf, just looking to re-read the specific letter and the pages kept turning.The haunting memories of the main character and her experiences growing up in the nineteen fifties as a trans person brought tears to my eyes, but the stoic resilience of the character and staid writing style kept it from being a tragic story or a depressing read.
The humanity of the characters keep them engaging, and the little quirks of character and circumstance made me chuckle through the tears at times.
I would recommend this book for anyone, but especially those who enjoy a dose of historical/political context with their narrative.
This book is an amazing gift to humanity.
It's obvious that Stone Butch Blues was heavily influenced by Leslie Feinberg's life and experiences.
I was so incredibly moved while reading the life story of MC, Jess Goldberg, whose parents sent her to a psychiatric hospital around age 10 because she tried on her father's suit.
As the years go on it becomes apparent to Jess that she's going to have to start passing as a man, but does that solve her problems?
We follow Jess through all the ups and downs and heartbreaks.
I feel so honored that I had the chance to read this book.
I enjoyed the first half of this book in an educational sense-- as a lesbian in modern society, I was utterly clueless on how difficult it was to be a lesbian, especially butch, in the 60s.
The earlier parts of the book were informative and heartbreaking, learning about all the things these women went through.
However, by the middle/end of the book, it was just flat writing.
There are entirely too many characters in the novel to keep up with, and there is no imagery to form a mental story.
I enjoyed the educational portions of the book, but I was expecting better after hearing rave reviews from the lesbian/feminist community.

