https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/466426.A_Thatched_Roof
In fact, I should caution all readers first cracking open (or powering up as it may be nowadays) a Beverley Nichols work of fiction to take the following cautions: after sipping any hot beverage while reading Nichols, be careful to avert your eyes till it is good and swallowed.
Also, don't dare try to read Nichols on the sligh, like at work, school or during church.
I love reading about his loony, stuck-up, know-it-all village neighbors and his equally colorful weird house staff.
Reminds me of P.G. Wodehouse novels, on a smaller scale - the main setting is in a Tudor cottage in the English countryside, hence the title - and I think perhaps the Cotswolds.
The cottage was named Allways and was in Cambridgeshire, although I love the Cotswolds, and that is why I place it there.
I've stayed in an historic hotel called the Bowlish House in Shepton Mallet two times - in 1984 with my lovely wife before our first son was born and again in 2005, when we were visiting that same son doing his junior year at Oxford.
This was a charming book - I loved it. I could picture it being made into a BBC series, the characters are so well drawn. I actually preferred this one to the first in the series, Down the Garden Path, which is more well-known. Now to track down the third one....
I love Beverly Nichols but this offering was not one of my favorites. It was a pleasant read and I do love picturing myself in his quaint little world where the first priority when electricity is finally put into the house is to illuminate a garden statue. But my favorite moments are when he tells stories about the neighborhood ladies and telling us stories of the village gossip etc. This book was heavy on decor descriptions and light on gossip.
Filled with Nichols's usual bon mots this was a true delight. Even though it was #2 in the Allways trilogy, I didn't know that until I was halfway in, and I found it to be a standalone book.
And yet ...not the ultimate blue, for if one stared long enough, at this little glass set in the window, with the dying light about it, one saw a hundred whims and echoes of its own sweet nature.
There was a blue that was like the blue of secret pools, where the sigh of the sea comes softly from over the rocks, and the sky looks down in wonder at its own beauty."I love that Nichols loves and personifies plants.
Loved it! I enjoyed this book and could not put it down. It was thought provoking. Mr. Nichols has a knack for saying so much in a single sentence. At a point in the book, where he talks about Chopin, I wanted to hear it. We are so lucky we live in an age that I could listen with two clicks on my phone. How lovely to read the words of Beverley Nichols and imagine him in the back ground on is piano.
Whereas Down the Garden Path discussed Nichol's adventures in his garden, A Thatched Roof tells of his adventures restoring his 16th century cottage. Nichols enthusiasm is infectious and his ignorance humorous. Throughout all, his deep love of his home shines through.
Nichols paints a delightful picture of the lovely cottage he lives in in the English countryside. This time he takes us inside the cottage and gives us a look at most of the rooms. His garden also pops up as he is able to bring some of it indoors. The illustrations are lovely but I wish there were more of them.
Such a delightful read! Really enchanting. Reminded me so much of the thatched roof rural cottage my family lived in during the 50's,when my AF dad was stationed in England. The forward recommended reading "Down The Garden Path" first....too late now, but I definitely want to seek his other books.
The second in his trilogy, in this book we leave the garden to explore inside the wonderful old cottage. He definitely shares gardening wisdom on the way. It's hard for him to write without touching on it. Also we get to meet household staff and his new dog.
British HGTV of the 1930s. Hilarious.
Beverley Nichols second book about his house in the village of Allways takes us from the garden into the cottage...where we bang our heads on the low doorposts, find hidden treasures behind the walls, and see the author as a dedicated dog owner.
A leaking roof is an excuse to go cut reeds in the swamp, and if you ever want to read how central heating and a new water well (in the '30s the country side was not all connected to the water mains, and electricity has not yet reached the village!) can almost lead to poetry, this is the book for you.
I didn't realize this was the second one of these books, but I suspect it mattered little.
I enjoyed it well enough, but I suspect it would drive a lot of people batty.
I probably like it because it's living vicariously.
When the author is amusing I am moderately amused, although honestly he seems a bit of a prig.
When the author gets serious, I cringe.
Nevertheless, his house sounds very nice and he sounds like he has good taste, although the illustrations were a funny surprise for me.
Anyway, a very slice-of-life style of read and I might pick up the other to enjoy some escapist reading.
This is the second of the Allways trilogy, and I liked it a good deal better than the first. This one has more of the charm and less of the mean-spiritedness. There are a couple of cringeworthy moments of blatant racism against Africans and Japanese, and I had to tell myself to remember that these books were written in the 1930s when people's attitudes were quite different. The references were passing; in neither case was Nichols' point his own superiority or the superiority of the white man. Still.
Nichols explains how he renovated the small Tudor cottage whose garden he described in an earlier book, but naturally he can't stay out of the garden entirely. He also discusses his neighbors, his dog Whoops, and the servant problem. Of course, many social attitudes have changed between 1933 and today, and I find myself having to make excuses for some of Nichols' comments. Still, there's something very restful about entering his world, even for a short time.
This is the second book of the Beverley Nichols Allways trilogy. The first one Down the Garden Path was mainly about the making of his garden but this one is about the internal decoration of his thatched Tudor cottage. Inevitably some gardening stuff creeps in too, as well as the neighbours. It's an amusing read, first published in 1933, it's amazing how much life has moved on in the last 80 years. Quietly catty.
Another great one from BN -- this time less of the garden and more of the cottage (though he couldn't help throwing in more of the outdoors despite saying it would be a book of the house!). Loved the village interactions, especially that which showed the times such as the pylons and electricity, and -- of course -- the passage on the bees!
Just saw a photo of a friend's recent trip to the Cotswolds and it brought back the charm and whimsy of this fluffy read this past spring. If you were a fan of the television series All Creatures Great and Small, the charm of the English village life captured by Nichols in this book will be recognizable. Nothing taxing here... just fun!
Like all of Nichols' books, this is a re-read; a visit to a world I like to hide in from time to time. A Thatched Roof is one of my favorites because Nichols gives his delightful house the attention he usually reserves for his gardens, and I'm far more of an old-house person than a garden person. So- simple, calming, quietly funny- all you need for a short read before bed.
The author is better known for his gardening books but this one about "doing up" the cottage is an absolute delight. Beverley Nichols has such a lyrical voice, a lovely way with description, and he's also very, very funny. A delightful, purely fun read.
A lovely, fun, delightful read. I read most of it while on a weekend getaway to the mountains and it was just the perfect read for that. He does a brilliant job of weaving us around his cottage with peeks into his garden and country friends.
Love all my Beverley Nichols
love this guy, he wrote many garden books, they are all good...he also had many cats and wrote about them
The was a faster read than the first, but maybe I just knew what to expect. It had fun characters and him discovering the old house was a good read. He installs electricity and digs a new well.
pleasant reading, for the most part; "Knoll" settee instead of "Knole"
Very old school, very British. Quaint, peaceful, great before bed.
Nichols is always delightful. This book just adds to his splendor.
More delightfully snarky domestic tales from Mr. Nichols. Instead of focusing on his garden, this book is centered on his house built in 1540. Wonderfully fun.
Peaceful and charming.
