https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/141433.Prime_of_Life
And yes, she’s sort of narcissistic (but I sort of think maybe it’s a required trait to make any way in this world, see that’s why I’m a failure, I’m just not self-centered enough.) She spent her youth and much of her young life believing that the world could only be understood through her senses and her superior mind alone.
I thought the switching to her actual diary entries at start of the war and the fall of France was interesting, the frenzied tone embodies the uncertainly and excitement of the time.
One evening I went to a concert in Rouen, and when I saw the pampered audience all around me, preparing to digest its ration of aesthetic beauty, a feeling of misery swept over me. They were so powerful, there were so many of them: would there ever be an end of their rule? How much longer would they be allowed to believe that they embodied the very highest human values, and to go on moulding their children in their own likeness?We were never prepared to acknowledge the status which circumstance
I'm all for going a step further in reading women when it comes to class and sexuality and race and whatnot, but if you have to choose a bourgeois white woman with a man attached to follow, d.B., and to a lesser extent Sartre, are the way to go.What I lacked was the idea of 'situation', which alone allows one to make some concrete definition of human groups without enslaving them to a tireless and deterministic pattern.Now I reflected that to adapt one's outlook to another person's salvation is the surest and quickest way of losing [the]m.For better or worse, I read this long enough after Memoirs of a Dutiful Daughter for the memories of an assuredly delightful experience to be subsumed by the disappointment of The Mandarins, so I had to do absurd things like google Zaza to get back into d.B.'s trajectory and all its fixations.
Lo cierto es que he leído este tomo de las memorias para hacer un trabajo sobre Simone, concretamente sobre la influencia de Simone en Sartre, pero en realidad puede que simplemente el trabajo haya resultado justificable y necesario mientras lo leía.Las memorias de Simone además de acercarte infinitamente a lo que ella fue, son siempre una clase de historia, donde narra los sucesos de su época y la forma e influencia que tuvieron para ella.Este libro posee una parte que a mi parecer es esencial en la figura de Simone: la ruptura que se produce en ella con el individualismo que había cultivado durante toda su juventud, hasta la guerra.
Covering the years from 1929, when Beauvoir graduated from college and first lived on her own as an adult, through the development of her ideas and interpersonal relationships of the 1930s and into the war years to the liberation of Paris in 1944, La force de l'âge (translated into English as The Prime of Life) is seven hundred pages of densely-packed insight, and a new favorite for me.In both volumes I've read, what sets Beauvoir's autobiographical writing apart is her concern with both the specific details of her own life at any given time (standard memoir fare), and also with drilling down into the ontological state of being a 5-year-old girl, a 23-year-old intellectual, a 32-year-old novelist, and so on.
In the second volume of her memoirs, Simone de Beauvoir tells you what it was like to be a young woman living with Sartre.
I hadn't realized what a natural gift for languages he had - there was an incident when someone thought he might be a spy, because his German accent was just too damn good.
I hadn't realized either what a lot of fun he was (really!
You can read about it here, then in fictionalized form in her novel L'Invitée, and then in a different fictionalized form in Sartre's novel L'Age de Raison.
تابستون ۹۱ خودم رو غرق کردم تو خاطرات دوبوار؛ کتاب بالینی به معنای واقعی کلمه. جلد یک برای من کمی خستهکننده بود، شاید چون زیادی هول داشتم که سارتر هم وارد داستان بشه. جلد دو و سه رو ولی زندگی کردم؛ گاهی باهاش امیدوار شدم و گاهی پژمرده. تو این پنج سال هی میرم گاهی سرک می کشم به جاهایی که خط کشیدم زیرشون، خاطرات خودم و دوبوار رو مرور میکنم...
تابستون ۹۱ خودم رو غرق کردم تو خاطرات دوبوار؛ کتاب بالینی به معنای واقعی کلمه. جلد یک برای من کمی خسته‌کننده بود، شاید چون زیادی هول داشتم که سارتر هم وارد داستان بشه. جلد دو و سه رو ولی زندگی کردم؛ گاهی باهاش امیدوار شدم و گاهی پژمرده. تو این پنج سال هی می‌رم گاهی سرک می کشم به جاهایی که خط کشیدم زیرشون، خاطرات خودم و دوبوار رو مرور می‌کنم...
Leur relation tient une place centrale dans le récit que Simone fait de sa vie (si ce n'est que parce que Sartre est pratiquement toujours avec elle), mais, & c'est une chose qui m'a frappé, l'auteure n'essaie jamais d'expliquer l'intimité particulière qu'ils partagent, ou même d'y faire pénétrer le lecteur.
Sans jamais vraiment comprendre ce que Simone faisait avec Sartre (qui m'a semblé, je sais pas, perpétuellement pédant & condescendant...?), j'ai pas pu m'empêcher d'éprouver une drôle de fascination frustrée pour le couple qu'ils forment dans La force de l'âge.Mais il n'y a pas que Sartre dans ce deuxième tome des mémoires de Simone (...heureusement), tome qui couvre une période fertile, bouillonnante d'idées & de changements, de 1929 jusqu'en 1945.
Simone demuestra una vez más que se infravaloraba al no considerarse una "filosofa" a sí misma. Este segundo volumen de sus memorias combina con una honesta profundidad clases de historia, de teoría de la literatura, de arte, de amistad, de pensamiento y, sobre todo, de aquello que más la obsesionó: las relaciones humanas. Aunque confieso que en ocasiones se me hizo un poco largo por la exhaustividad de sus descripciones es éste un libro imprescindible, con fragmentos inolvidables, para conocer un poco mejor a esta extraordinaria mujer invadida por la plenitud de su vida.
Simone de Beauvoir is considered a mother of modern feminism, but this book has little of her views on it.
The authors she mentioned were mostly unfamiliar to me, let alone the actors or performers of the time.She does write directly about feminism in a few places, one in particular stuck with me where she talks about the misconceptions about her novel The Second Sex. I think this quote sheds light on one of the main misunderstandings in feminism: what equality of men and women means.
Las interrogantes que se hace acerca del mundo y su lugar en el, el paso del individualismo hacia el colectivismo, el crecimiento de su sentido de responsabilidad política, y la contradicción que es querer darse a alguien enteramente y a la vez estar completa y definida por si misma...
El libro más bien sugiere que la vida (a diferencia de la mera existencia) emerge de la interacción entre un individuo constantemente en definición, y un mundo indiferente, que no deja de avanzar.
"...mi vida no era una historia que me contaba a mí misma, sino un compromiso entre el mundo y yo "
Simone led a very interesting life, especially for a woman at the time, and had a fascinating personality.
I was particularly surprised about how neutral she and Sartre remained politically speaking for quite a long time.
It is a long book and I agree that there are plenty of descriptions of people and works of art from the time but it is so worth at least one read.
"Kadınlığımın Hikayesi" yazarın kendi hayatıyla ilgili tuttuğu notlardan oluşuyor. Bir bakıma günlük. Yazım süreci, Sartre ile olan ilişkisi, kitaplarından ve hayatından beklentileri, gezip gördüğü bazı yerler, Castro ile tanışması, Hitler Almanyası'nın Fransa ve kendi çevresine olan etkileri, sol görüşü nasıl benimsediği... Kült üçlemesinin ardından özellikle erkek yazarlar tarafından nasıl yerden yere vurulduğu okurken bile sinir bozuyor. Ayrıca kendisine yıllarca "Kitaplarınızı Sartre yazıyor değil mi?" sorusu sorulmuş. Bir kadının felsefe, siyaset, edebiyat alanında bu denli yetkin olabilmesi zorlarına gitmiş belli ki. Okuyun, okutun.
http://allaroundthecorner.blogspot.fr...
A little dry at first but it gets better towards the end
Simone De Beauvoir, komünist, feminist, varoluşçu gibi birçok yaftaya maruz kalmış ama bunların dışında olarak ‘’kadın’’ olarak yaşamını sürmüştür.
Bir diğer üstüne yapışan şey ise kitaplarının Sartre ürünü olduğu, Sartre’ın arkasına saklanan birisi olduğudur.
Belki çevirmenden kaynaklanan bir durum ama cümle yapısına göre doğru olduğu için şüphelendim.
Beklenmeyen bir kelime cümleye bomba gibi düşmüş.Diğer yandan özel hayatından çok etkilenmedim.
Simone’un en başarılı işlerinden birisi bence kitabında anlattığı Cezayir’li Cemile isimli bir kız için mücadelesidir.
Cemile, Cezayir Kurtuluş Örgütü Üyesi ve Fransa’nın işgali sırasında edep yerlerine (kitapta da böyle diyor) şişe sokularak işkence edilmiş.
Bu kız için müthiş bir mücadeleye girişiyor.
Sovyet’in katlettiği insanlar için en ufak bir yakınmada bulunmuyor.
I can't believe they had 10 years of perfect relationship, no silly daylly or more serious conflicts at all...like the subject of Olga is treated in a really rational way...no feelings exposed....) thus transforming this diary in a more or less plain inventory of their journeys, work places, friends, cafes/museums visited, books read and movies seen.
This recreates very beautifully the era she lived in, witch I liked reading about, but also made me loose touch with her evolution as a person and made the whole read very impersonal ...
Although De Beauvoir obviously writes from her perspective, she's often focusing on the world around her, her developments as a writer in a community of writers and how the war that surrounds her impacts her philosophy.
This book focuses on De Beauvoir's life from just as she's leaving home and meeting Jean-Paul Sartre to the end of the Second World War. She charts her relationship with Sartre and the developments of their philosophies, and the impacts the war had on each of their worldviews.
This book also provides an inside look at that specific community of writer's-socialist, progressive, existentialists-who came to prominence at this time.
Ei yhtä hyvä kuin muistelmien ensimmäinen osa; ajoittain väsyttävän yksityiskohtaista oman ajan pikku-uutisten ja kulttuuritapahtumien kuvailua, joka ei oikein enää aukea. Kuvaa kuitenkin ajattomasti kirjailijan henkistä kehitystä, harvinaislaatuista suhdetta Sartreen ja hidasta havahtumista(/kieltäytymistä havahtumasta) toisen maailmansodan uhkaamaan todellisuuteen.
Even more wonderful on the second reading.
Simone de Beauvoir à remis le couvert pour me faire vivre quelques semaines exaltantes avec cette lecture de son deuxième livre autobiographique.
C'est avec passion que j'ai découvert les années d'avant guerre et jusqu'à la libération au cœur du quotidien de Simone, Jean-Paul Sartre et d'autres intellectuels et artistes dont notamment, Giacometti, Camus, Genet...
Je trouve que ce récit permet vraiment de se rendre compte des circonstances ayant mené à la seconde guerre mondiale, notamment l'ultra pacifisme.
De plus, comparé au Mémoires d'une jeune fille rangée, ce roman m'a parut moins long et moins ennuyeux, bien que je déplore tout de même quelques longueurs à certains moments.
A recommendation from the New York Times magazine was what attracted me, especially concerning de Beauvoir's descriptions of her travels in France and elsewhere.This book is mainly of interest to people who want to know about her development as an author, her relationship with Sartre and others in their circle of friends, or what life was like in France during the years preceding and during World War II.
The book was a bit of a slog and dragged in places, and after reading it I felt that I still did not know or understand de Beauvoir at all.
This is the second volume of Beauvoir’s autobiography; the first is Mémoires d’une jeune fille rangée.
Both are as enjoyable as they are deep.
I often get the impression that Simone (as I’m tempted to call her) is talking to me, or writing me a letter.
She says upfront that she’s not going to tell all, but she tells enough to give us a good sense of who she is, how she feels and thinks, what her life is like.
Words like “engaging” and “delightful” come to mind, but perhaps the best is “companionable.” When I finished this, I immediately bought the next volume.
Okuduğum ilk Beavouir kitabı oldu bu. Bilmeden iyi bir başlangıç yapmışım. Beavouir’in hayatı, felsefesi, karşılaştığı güçlükler ve hayatındaki Sartre damgasını net bir şekilde anlatmış, yazarın diğer kitaplarını okumadan bununla başlamanın daha iyi anlayabilmek için iyi bir hamle olduğunu düşünüyorum. Kitap tanıdık tarihi olayları ve diğer ünlü yazarların tutumlarını da içeriyor, oldukça dolu dolu sürükleyici bir kitap olmuş.
It was a long read! Though dragging and boring in some parts, it was an inspiring read for me! I love her genuine and intimate way of depicting her transition from youth to primary years of her life which was entangled by circumstances that war forced on her. For me it was not just an autobiography of someone I was interested to know better but it was also a way of life; Something to hang on when life drags you out of your orbit...
this book gives details about simone de beauvoir's political thought, woman rights opinion and her mental confusions. jean paul sartre is a dominant figure in beauvoir's philosophy and simone is doing self-criticism of these situations in connection with her woman rights opinion.
Ce qui est vraiment bizarre, c'est le rôle que joue Sartre dans tout ça. Il est présent à presque chaque page, c'est son Dieu à elle, il est infaillible.... C'est l'amour. Chez la mère du feminisme ? Ça me touche beaucoup !
"Non si arriva mai a conoscersi, ci si può soltanto descrivere." (p. 318)
The sense of freedom she enjoys as a graduated student, out of the family home, making her own living and having a lover at last, is palpable.She describes the details of the life she and Sartre created: their vows to tell each other everything, their decision to grant each other complete freedom (including the freedom to have other lovers), and the setting of life-long goals to be writers who are engaged with the world and making a difference.
She covers the German invasion and occupation followed by the years of deprivation, danger and the Resistance.During the war she completed her second novel, The Blood of Others, about a Resistance fighter and his struggles to leave behind his bourgeois background.
The book ends with the liberation of Paris after the Second World War, de Beauvoir somewhat haggard and scorched, but no less enchanted with her city.
The presence of the Second World War overshadows the latter half of the work, transforming a jocular life into something cynical and mysterious.
All in all, it was a fantastic piece of writing - characters could have been edited out for the ease of the reader trying to keep track, and I would have cared for more resolution with the original Olga, but it remains one of the greatest things I have read this year.
