https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/38980.The_Princess_Diaries
There’s a reason why this series has such low ratings but has been read by so many people.It has a unique concept.
It was written to remind you that sometimes it’s good to let your reasonable mind take a break and plunge into something so bad it’s actually good.
Many people are telling her all that she should do better and all that is wrong with her – and maybe she SHOULD listen – but she’s struggling to understand who she is, and you can only do that if you allow yourself to be who you are first.
Life is already a bit of a strain and when her dad tells her he's the crown prince of Genovia and, since his testicular cancer has left him unable to have more children, Mia is now the heir to the throne, it becomes even more unbearable.She's seriously not happy about the news, but makes a compromise with her Dad: that she'll keep going to school like normal, but would spend the summers in Genovia doing the princess thing.
She's certainly got an interesting past, but we only get hints of it at this stage.Essentially, what saves this book from being just another YA journal-style teenage girl gushathon is Mia's liveliness, her spirit, her humour and, well, her.
This book is so good that it makes current brilliant cool me agree with twelve-year-old me, who loved Justin Bieber and thought Aeropostale graphic tees were the height of fashion.
I truly enjoyed it and now have suckered myself into rereading this whole series, which is like seriously a thousand books long.But wait I just realized Mia is 14 years old????
I may have to deduct a half-star and/or take back that whole "woke" comment from a paragraph ago.Whatever.Bottom line: Is there anything better than rereading a dumb book you loved when you were dumb and being like "oh wow this is actually crazy fun"??????
This is WAY different than the movie. Mia's personality is younger and sillier, but it became less irritating and more endearing after a bit. I still mostly just wanted the book to be over, though. I didn't realize this plot only covered like the first half of the movie and that so many things had been changed... and changed for the better. Basically, skip the book and stick with the movie (unless you're in middle school because then you might like the narrator and this series way more).
I first read this series YEARS ago but thought it was time for a reread with A Royal Wedding coming out this summer!
(Freshman Mia can be a little dramatic) but I didn't!
In some ways, I actually feel like I connect better with Mia now then I did before, not because I'm a princess secretly or because I'm having boy problems..
I also love her mom and Fat Louie :D (view spoiler)[ I forgot that Michael was into Mia so early on..
Isn't a bit odd that a senior likes a Freshman?
I never got around to reading this when I was the protagonist Mia's age, and since the book and movie series became so popular, I recently decided to take a trip back to childhood and finally read this book.
It was a quick read, thankfully, but I didn't find it nearly as endearing as the movie version (which is substantially different from the novel).
Mia's melodrama became tiresome, as did her best friend's ego.The story continues with the rest of the series, so it probably improves, but the first book didn't make me eager to read the second.
The movie was touching, but the book...not as much.
Honestly, this book was a complete surprise for me!
I had never read it (I know, I know) and I loved it!!
So smart and clever and totally kick butt feminist.
This book was so ahead of its time when it was first published.
I don't know but I would guess there was backlash lol - I can't wait to pick up the next one and I definitely recommend the audiobooks as well.
:) I could try and nitpick and find something to critique but I honestly don't want to - this was a great book.
4 starsThis was way funnier than I thought it would be. Mia is hysterical, and Meg Cabot's writing style is right up my alley. I'm looking forward to reading the gazillion other books that are in this series!
THIS WAS SO ADORABLE AND HILARIOUS AND NOW I NEED THE REST OF THE BOOKS RIGHT NOW PLZ THX
Say hello to Mia Thermopolis, 14 years old and frustrated with teendom and it's innumerable woes.To jot down a few of her frustrations:1) She is the tallest girl in her class, has feet like skis, is gawky, geeky and has a chestline that is flatter than a surfboard.2) Her mouse-brown/dishwater blonde hair is 'triangular' in shape and has a rampant life of it's own.3) She is a child born of wedlock, the offspring of a tempestuous college romance between the lofty Phillipe Renaldo of Genovia ( fictional country in Europe located between France and Italy) and the scatterbrained, avant-garde artist Helen Thermopolis of Greenwich village.
Review to come....
Okay, so I wasn't really planing to read this ever, because I was quite satisfied with the movie and I've heard that the books were really different.
In general I love how seeing her grow through the story and agree with her point of views about a lot of things.
There are a lot of differences between the book and the movie, so if you already watched it (and who hasn't, let's be honest) and want to read the book, it's better if you think of this stories as completely different ones -because they are.
The movie have maybe a 10% of the content of the book, to be honest.
It’s odd seeing it succeed, when I have seen several YA books fail with the same plot: The geeky girl falls is head over heals with the popular jock, only to not notice the gorgeous nerd next door.I think one of the reasons why it worked in Diaries and not so many other books is because Mia and Michael don’t get together at the end of this book.
And besides, the Josh plot isn’t really the sole focus of the book.
I read the first 3 books in the series yesterday and I can't decide if I think they are clever and funny or obnoxious and pretentious. Maybe you will have a different opinion. I didn't relate much to Mia; everything she stands for annoys the heck out of stuff I stand for. But she is still kinda funny anyway.
Unfortunately, I couldn't finish this. I got ten pages in and I could not handle Mia's obsession with kissing and the size of her chest and half a dozen other disgusting things. I'll stick to the movies, thank you very much.
This book was so much fun! ^^I love the series because it transports me back in time when I was a lot younger! 😄 If you are looking for something light and fun, then give it a go!Krisi
Now that I've reread it as an adult I have to raise it from a 3 to a 4.I can't believe how many jokes went over my head as a kid! This was really funny!
So, it's not like the movie, but it definitely was a fun read.

3.5 stars. Loved the movie, finally got to read the book.Review to come.Audiobook CommentsRead by Anne Hathaway - which it was too cool! Unsurprisingly, she rocked it!Blog | Instagram | Twitter
This book was absolutely charming! Audiobook with Anne Hathaway as narrator; her voice was perfect for a high schooler. Not exactly like the movie, but still a great read. Mia is an engaging teenager, really amusing.
I remember seeing the movie adaptation of this book when it came out in 2001 and being absolutely mesmerized by the depth of Anne Hathaway's brown eyes and the luxuriousness of her long brown hair.
The only thing that annoyed me (and it bothered me back when I read this the first time) was her constant complaints of being flat-chested.
(Honestly, this bothers me in every book I read.
Oh, I just thought of another thing that bothered me: Lilly.
In the movies, Lily is head-strong and a bit bossy but in the books she can be just plain awful.
This was hilarious and even though the movie was good it left some of the funny parts out.
I thought I was purchasing _The Princess Bride_, a book I've long wanted to read since I loved the movie and it's so iconic, but had a senior moment and bought this instead.
Oh well, I'll keep reading and see if I can stand it.
Main character Mia (aka the Princess) is a dear and the reader can't help liking her and sympathizing with her.
Nice book.* * * * *Mia has a cat named "Fat Louie." Love that!
Here are some quotes that I enjoyed:"Mom's been depressed ever since her last boyfriend turned out to be a Republican.""Really attractive people, like Lana and Josh, don't ever go anywhere alone.
This book is so great, even the second time round.
I love how intelligent Mia is, but still gets to worry about things like boys and hair and stuff, because you can be care about that stuff as well as Greenpeace and that's cool beans.
SO FUN!
I loved this.
I actually prefer book Mia to film Mia, because she is so hilarious and clever.
I've never read this before, but I was growing up around the same time as Mia, so all the references totally gave me nostalgic feelings.
Fun, full of great characters and guaranteed to make you laugh.
- - - - -Rating: 3/5 PenguinsQuick Reasons: sometimes witty, mostly annoying main character (sorry, Mia, I just didn't like you!); diary entry format that felt a bit stiff and disjointed; lots of differences from the movie that I wasn't expecting; I just don't think this book did it for meSo...you might all be shocked to learn that I never once picked up this series when I was younger.
Like, I get it—this is sort of a coming-of-age story...but I don't feel like Mia at the end of this book was really that “grown” from Mia at the beginning, aside from the fact that she tells a certain jerkhead off in an instant of anger.
It’s just that Mia was SO DUMB, she’d written an essay on Genovia, visited the country multiple times where she would catch limos and go shopping after hours with Grandmere and basically be treated like a princess, and even seen a picture of the Crown Prince in the encyclopaedia (the what?
Being 20, I grew up with this series, and count wait to re-read one of my favourite ever series!I had actually forgot most of the events of book 1, The Princess Diaries, and was actually going off what the movies say.
However, this is not the dream date she'd always imagined it would be - he's basically only using her for her new found popularity as a princess.I really felt for Mia having so much upheaval thrust on her in a short space of time - book 1 takes place in less than a month.
Not much happened.Mia spends a majority of the book complaining about how she doesn't want to be a princess.
That's another thing that is different for me, I'm used to reading books from girls that are 16 or 17, not just starting high school.
In fact, despite my annoyance with Mia, I do think that this was a short, fun little read.
Despite the fact, I still liked the supporting characters and this was a fun read!
I know that Mia will grow throughout the series and I would like to see that.
O.k., this review is about Meg Cabot's books more than it is about The Princess Diaries.
I've also been reading a few other Meg Cabot books over the last few months and I think she has a tallent for writing for teens and for making her characters say and do pretty funny things.
But, I have big issues how many of her main characters seem to have pretty low moral standards.
Maybe I'm making too much of it, but I don't think so.
