https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/457641.The_Black_Curtain
Will Frank pierce The Black Curtain and put the missing piece of his life in place?This Woolrich was okay, if a little long-winded for what it was.
Who would let a man back into their life after he ran out on them without a word three years before, no questions asked?As a friend recently commented, Woolrich's Black series were probably his way of coping with his alcoholic blackouts and it's nowhere more apparent than in The Black Curtain.
Townsend trying to piece together the fragments of his memories is very similar to someone trying to figure out what they did during a blackout.Not my favorite Woolrich but not terrible.
Presenting a horrific yet plausible scenario of repression and crime, The Black Curtain has faded into the vast amount of other crime novels in the world but definitely deserves to be read more often.
The book should not be judged by today's standards much less by today's world.Although the story that Woolrich tells here is highly improbable, the paranoia that he is able to build and maintain throughout the story is something quite amazing.
Not knowing who you are or what you did has been utilized often in today's television and books.I seem to recall reading an Ace paperback of this book many years ago, however I enjoyed it much more this time around.This is copy 40 of 300 signed and numbered copies, this copy is signed by: Jack Seabrook (Introduction Author)Matt Mahurin (Cover Painting)Jacob McMurray (Jacket design)
Another book about amnesia. I just have to say I have never even heard about anyone who ever had amnesia. Yet it is a constant plot trope in books and movies.
Von der ersten Seite an zieht die Handlung einen in den Strudel von Gegenwart und Vergangenheit des Frank Townsend, der sich in einem schier unlösbaren Dilemma befindet.
Seine Ehefrau, von der er sich noch verabschiedet hatte, ist umgezogen und behauptet, dass sie ihn seit drei Jahren vermisst hat.
Sein Hut trägt die Initialen D.N. Doch dem nicht genug, muss er feststellen, dass er von einem unbekannten Mann unerbittlich verfolgt und bedroht wird.
Er muss die verlorenen drei Jahre wiederfinden.Die Geschichte ist derart gekonnt erzählt, dass ich das Gefühl hatte, vor einer großen Leinwand zu sitzen und in einem Film Noir einzutauchen.
THE BLACK CURTAIN.
Cornell Woolrich.
***1/2.This early mystery novel from Woolrich revolves around one of his favorite themes – amnesia.
Amnesia is the ‘black curtain’ referred to by the author.
This time, the protagonist goes into a state of amnesia when he is hit on the head.
Three years later, he is again hit on the head by a piece of a falling building.
Suddenly, he recovers his memory and he is back to who he once was – with an exception; the police are after him for murder – a murder he knows he didn’t commit.
This is a middling read by Woolrich that is probably only on the list of dedicated fans.
In the world of The Black Curtain paranoia runs rampant.
Blue shadows, like tentatively clutching fingers, began a slow creep toward Townsend out from under the trees.
Then dark blue, like ink rolling sluggishly amidst the grass blades and dyeing them from roots up.
At last, freed of the vigilance of the closing red eye of the sun, turning black, showing their true color.
The denouement, (view spoiler)[however, is far too mechanical to dispel the pervasive paranoia conjured up in the first three quarters of the novel.
When he gets up he finds himself wearing somebody else's clothes and with a three year chunk of his life missing.
He gets his old job back and finds his wife, who thought he had run out on her, but he doesn't have a clue what happened for the last three years.
Not the best of his novellas, the plot suffers a little from the improbability (or inexplicability) of the circumstances and Woolrich doesn't do a good enough job this time to make us completely forget about them.
Quasi perfetto, in particolare la graduale accelerazione senza scampo alcuno della seconda parte della storia. Come una locomotiva che si avvia sbuffando e alla fine, in piena corsa, "fischia come urlasse d'angoscia".
He got their feel one step removed.
(view spoiler)[For instance, I thought it was beyond stupid that Townsend walked knowingly into the trap without doing anything more definitive than make an anonymous tip to the police.
If he'd planned a little better, maybe three people wouldn't have had to die, although I can see that for the author, it was convenient to get Ruth out of the way.
That seemed unlikely (hide spoiler)] Overall, I enjoyed the story but thought it could have been better.

He searches for his home and discovers his apartment is vacant and that his wife has moved out.
After he’s been back with his wife a short time, Townsend discovers someone is following him.
The more dangerous the pursuit becomes, the more Townsend realizes he must figure out what happened during the missing three years.His struggle to discover his past leads him through a threatening world of suspicious looks and dead ends.
The fast-paced story includes a case of murder and a decrepit, isolated mansion.The Dancing DetectiveLike most roman noir novels, there isn’t exactly a Hollywood ending.
I've had Woolrich on my shelf for almost 20 years after I bought it in Webster, Texas.
Xavier, an old friend of mine, reminded me of this writer of whom I had occasionally read favorable reviews.
Well, The Black Curtain was pretty good for this genre.
Woolrich probably got better as he wrote more.
I could imagine him doing repairs at home and bumping his head on a shelf he had just put there an hour ago.
The tone was good (the real reason for reading noir thrillers).
I'll read the other novel I have by him now.
Vintage 1941 pulp fiction -- really fun.
Like reading a noir movie.
On page 73, "His face was an unbaked cruller of rage." First of all, crullers are fried, not baked.
But I could overlook that in the midst of such an intriguing, fast-moving plot.
Then on page 178, "The ticket seller had hard crullers of stubborness around his eyes." Seriously, take a break, Woolrich, treat yourself to a doughnut and a cup of coffee and get past this obsession.
There were maybe a few plot holes but, honestly, I was having too much fun reading it to be very picky (other than that cruller thing).
Dark and atmospheric yet somewhat dated.
One of his books was one of the 5 chosen by The American Library in their collection called American Noir of the 30s & 40s.
That book is the strange I Married a Dead Man, a hard one to put down.
Another one of his creations was the basis for one of Alfred Hitchcock's most famous movies, Rear Window.
The Black Curtain was worth the time since it was less than 200 pages but unless you like writing of this type, I'd suggest some of his other creations especially the aforementioned I Married a Dead Man.
It was a little bit of a struggle to get through this one and I can now see why it is regarded as one of Woolrich's weaker novels.
Part of the problem may be retrospective.
Was amnesia the horrendous cliche in 1942 that it is today?
I'm not sure, but the plot was certainly cliche on this end.
It is vintage Woolrich, in that it has incredibly improbable plot turns.
However, it is inexplicable in having a rather upbeat (for Woolrich) ending.
It's not without all redeeming value, but it is weak enough that it should be well down on any reading list.
Ormai è assodato: Cornell Woolrich è una delle migliori scoperte che ho fatto quest'anno grazie ad Anobii. Dopo "La donna fantasma" ecco un altro noir a 4 (ma anche a 5 se potessi) stelle, incentrato sulla disperata ricerca della verità (e della propria identità) di un uomo che non ricorda assolutamente nulla degli ultimi suoi tre anni di vita. Una scrittura che rende palpabile la tensione, la disperazione di non riuscire a ricordare e la rende con un'atmosfera nebbiosa, che non permette di vedere oltre il proprio naso (e la propria coscienza).
I wanted to like this book more than I did.
It dragged on a bit towards the middle, and while I like the ending and found it suspenseful, some of the loose ends were not tied up as neatly as I would've liked – for example, I never found out why Townsend left his wife and became Dan in the first place.
Maybe they said it in the book, and I just missed it – but I thought that was a pretty big thing to leave up to the reader's imagination or to be so cagey about.
The book wasn't bad – it just wasn't as good as I'd expected it to be, and a really good ending didn't save the rest of it.
Unless I missed the point somewhere along the way, all the threads weren't tied up at the end (ie, we still don't really know why Frank became Dan in the first place). And as always with Woolrich, there are a lot of lines that I wish he had excised. Some of them work, but for the most part they just come across as rather hammy and belaboring the obvious.
An interesting premise with the amnesia awaking and the totally forgotten murder possibility perpetrated by the main character. The first 2/3 of the book build up in classic pulp fiction style and are well done. The concluding sections are disjointed and very disappointing. Lots of unresolved holes in the story.
CHANGED January 2012 B&NThis book was okay. It was a short read which was good (about 150 pages) because I don't know if I would have enjoyed a longer book. Writing was okay but I couldn't picture the place for the book, although I could picture the time period.
An accident has Frank Townsend heading home. The problem when he gets there is that he hasn't been to the place in years. Frank not only has amnesia, but is accused of murder. This is a great suspense read by an author who knew how to tell a story.
The Black Curtain is the story of an amnesiac trying to discover his past. This is my favorite Woolrich, though perhaps not his best. The ending is atrocious--as Woolrich's endings can sometimes be--but the rest of the book is so great that I almost don't care.
un uomo perde la memoria e vive un'altra vita per quasi tre anni.alla fine un mistero è risolto, ma non sappiamo nulla del perché 3 anni prima avesse cambiato vita...mi ha lasciata con un sacco di domande senza risposta.(forse non ho capito nulla?)
Nobody writes quite like this cat. When all the odds are stacked against our hero he somehow just gets lucky enough to move on!
2.5 stars, really
Not a very exciting read and extremely predictable.
