https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33813.Gold_Coast
DeMilles best, and one of my all time favorite books - if you read nothing else by him, this is the one. Its awesome. Very clever and sarcastic, well researched, set on the gold coast of long island with some mafia ties - I love love love this book and have read it like 6 times.
This is a different story altogether with a different protagonist.John Whitman Sutter is a Wall Street lawyer married to Susan Stanhope Sutter who lives on the North Shore of Long Island (The Gold Coast).
Despite all of this John Sutter is going through a mid-life crisis.
and his mid-life crisis becomes the least of his problems.Nelson DeMille grew up on Long Island close to where much of this story takes place.
It was interesting to read about the fabled Gold Coast and imaging what life must have been like when the Astor's, Morgan's, Rockefeller's, and Vanderbilt's, et al lived like royalty.
This is my all-time favorite from Nelson DeMille, one of my favorite writers. Although I like his writing for his characters, particularly his little-bit-of-a-smartass heroes and strong-willed, red-headed heroines (can't imagine why), his plots tend to be driven by international spy, military or police stuff. Not this one. Nice Long Island man has life ruined when Mafia don moves in next door. Funny, moving and beautifully written. I guarantee you will not be able to put it down.
Sutter's world is turned upside down when he meets his next-door neighbor, Mafia Don Frank Bellarosa, the head of one of New York's most notorious Crime Families.
The Sutter's befriend Bellarosa and his wife Anna, but John slowly realizes that Bellarosa is not a man to be crossed, when Sutter is approached by him as his defender at a Murder trial, and at the same time getting drawn into Bellarosa's criminal empire, with Bellarosa making Sutter an offer that he can't refuse.I've always been a fan of Italian Gangster flicks, especially the ones with Al Pacino and Robert De Niro, seeing as they're 2 of my favorite actors!
John and Susan Sutter have a bad case of the RWPP- Rich White People Problems.
It's all very Great Gatsby, until Frank "The Bishop" Bellarosa moves in next door.
DeMille does a fantastic job of writing a Mafia character that doesn't feel like a bad caricature of the Godfather.
DeMille never lets the reader forget that Bellarosa is a Mafia don, and he's the don for a reason.John Sutter was a badass and I loved his character.
The storyline is great, the characters are well-developed and rich, and for a book written in the 90s, this book didn't feel dated or irrelevant whatsoever.
John Sutter is a lawyer living off of his wife's family fortune on the Gold Coast of Long Island.
These people and their friends are snobs.
He needs an adventure, a challenge.
And lucky for him, this challenge moves in right next door in the form of the boss of the NY mafia.
The two become aquaintances, friends, business partners, lawyer/client, rivals...
This book could have used a better editor, as it was at least 200 pages too long.
He portrays Long Island and Long Islanders well, but beyond that, the book was lacking.
But John Sutter is without doubt one of the most annoying characters of any book I've read.
I couldn't stand one more "capisce" or "mamma mia." (I'm Italian, my family comes from Brooklyn, and not even with 50 of us in one room during the holidays do I hear that many "capisce" and never "mamma mia.") One day Sutter is a Gold Coast snob (I'm from Long Island and his type and his wife's type really exist) and the next he's waking up hungover on a lawn and hanging with the Mafia.
But The Gold Coast did not live up to what so many said will be one of the best books I'll ever read.
I love all of Nelson Demille's books, but this one is my favorite and, I think, my favorite book by any author. His writing is laugh out loud hilarious and the main character has a dry sense of humor.This book is a cross b/w The Great Gatsby and The Godfather.
When a mob boss moves to the Gold Coast, the wealthiest part of the East Coast, the elite and grandfathered in residents, are in an uproar, but at the same time very curious.
To the residents dismay a not so affluent couple of the neighborhood lets their boredom get the best of them, and they become embroiled in a world they know nothing about, and are not at all prepared to handle.
A great read that takes you on a ride through the tangled lives of the very rich with original characters and wonderfully described scenery settings.
The Great Gatsby meets The Godfather! John Sutter,a wise-ass Wall Street attorney from the North Shore of Long Island(The Gold Coast) has a Mafia Don move next door. A very interesting and enjoyable story that all Nelson deMille fans will enjoy.
One of my favorites. More of a straight “novel” than a thriller, but this, along with all of DeMille’s books since then, is a model of how to incorporate humor and attitude into your storytelling without diminishing the suspense.
Τί ποιο ωραίο; Να είσαι μέσα στο μετρό το πρωί σα σαρδέλα, ζώντας ταυτόχρονα στη Χρυσή Ακτή, σε κάποια από τις επαύλεις με τους τεράστιους κήπους!Είναι το πρώτο βιβλίο του συγγραφέα που έπεσε στα χέρια μου, ή μάλλον στα αυτιά μου.
Συν τοις άλλοις είναι παντρεμένος με μια πάμπλουτη, πανέμορφη (αν και ολίγον ξινή) γόνο, της οποίας ιδιοκτησία είναι μια από τις επαύλεις της περιοχής.Το τί βόλτες έκανα στη Χρυσή Ακτή, δε λέγεται!
Αλλά από το να ακούω μαραθώνιες συνομιλίες γκομενικών-συνταγών-οδηγιών-κουτσομπολιών κλπ στο μετρό, καλύτερα οι χαριτωμένες φαντασιώσεις του ζεύγους των σνομπ!Ο Ηρακλής Στρούγγης ήταν επί της ανάγνωσης, με ωραία φωνή και χρώμα αλλά θα έπρεπε να έχει εξοικειωθεί περισσότερο με τις ξένες λέξεις, που τον έκαναν να κομπιάζει.
I'm not sure I've ever read a novel that gave me quite as much pleasure as this one. Hilarious, suspenseful, and unexpectedly moving, it comes packaged as pulp fiction, and yet without pretensions acquires real weight and power. An absolute delight.
I haven't liked a book with Mafia characters this much since The Godfather.
The Godfather is all Mafia all the time, but this had a rip roaring story line of blue bloods and what happens when a Mafia don moves into a neighborhood of old money.
Nobody is exactly likable but John Sutter, the blue blooded lawyer, who is the main protagonist, has a certain style (aka smart mouth/quick wit) that I appreciated.
I also really enjoyed 'the meeting of the minds' these two men had with one another.
Two intelligent minds that are worlds apart, and yet, get one another on a very fundamental level.
I really enjoyed this book and like another reviewer said it is a cross between The Great Gatsby and The Godfather. The story of a mafia don who moves next door to a lawyer and against all odds get on.There is plenty of humour throughout the book and even though it is over 600 pages I found it such an easy read full of suspense, emotion and plenty of sarcasm.I never expected to like this book so much and now plan to read more of Nelson DeMille's work.
mehIt was just okay. It needed some major editing. A whole lot of that book could have been cut out so that it didn't have to reach 400 pages. It was mildly entertaining, but if I didn't have this problem with returning books before I have read them I would have dropped this one long ago.I did enjoy the way in which it was written, which was more like the author was speaking with you in a conversation.a solid meh.
I both read and did audio(few years later) of this book. It was many years ago-don't know if it will stand the time test...BUT I know I so thoroughly enjoyed both versions. There was a lot of funny ,sarcastic humor in it and a great story. I LOVED IT !!!!
GARBAGE
A very good story about the clash between a 40 year old lawyer on the North SHore of Long Island, his heiress wife and their dealings with a mobster.
The Main character John Sutter mouth some really trenchant commentary about the North Shore, but I just did not really buy into the idea that even though he is inherently unhappy with his parents, and his wife's parents and sometimes with his wife and his safe life that he would just get so involved with the mobster.
I always enjoy a good thriller, especially when I am on holiday, and in the past have rated a number of Nelson De Mille's books highly. Inexplicably, this one is a total turkey. The plot is poor, the dialogue cringing, the humour feeble, and, most importantly, it totally lacks "thrill". Avoid at all costs.
Wow! What a good book! It's like the Great Gatsby meets the Italian maffia! One of those rare enjoyable books where you put it down a little smarter and you laugh along the way. I recommended it those who appreciate sarcasm and enjoy a jaded perspective every now and then. Read it now!!
Nelson DeMille forwards this book with praises like it will change your life, the best book of all times and how readers have begged for the movie and I realized as I read the book the narrator John Sutter is doing the same through out the book to keep the readers from putting it down.
Example the cynical sarcastic Sutter states I didn't know that later that day I'd be facing felony charges or Maybe what happened later wouldn't have happened if not for this event...etc...
We have a cynical sarcastic narrator who marries a wealth cold cat-like woman with an over developed sexual appetite.
Way too long, didn't get to the point, redundant, seemed dated (didn't stand the test of time).
Susan Really??
Lot of elements in the story that you spend a lot of time reading about and they never get tied back into the story, just left hanging there as threads.
Rarely do I read ahead in a book but I found myself with very little patience for this story and would skip pages on several occasions.
I could never endure reading the Gate House but did find myself perversely interested in whether John is stupid enough to get back together with Susan.
This was soooo not my kind of book.
I was able to really rush through the 500 pages because I couldn't care less about these shallow blue-bloods and their sexual fantasy scenarios or convos with their mafioso neighbor.
I had heard from a lot of people that this was such a fabulous book, but I didn't get it.
This rich guy in a flat life basically has a mid-life crisis and gets involved with the Mafia don who lives next door and I never really cared one bit what happened to any of them!
Yea!
I can't believe I gave up on a Nelson DeMille novel! I read over 100 pages and just couldn't get into it. Nothing was happening! Maybe I can give it another try later...
I kept comparing this in my head to Sidney Sheldon's Rage of Angels -- both books are a few decades old, both involve lawyer main characters and Mafia-related secondary characters.
I loved Rage of Angels, and really wanted to love this too.
The lack of emotion was weird and off-putting.The picture DeMille paints of the Gold Coast, however, was lovely and made me want to rent a car and drive out among the old mansions.
Also, at some point John makes a prediction that Little Italy will far outlast the Gold Coast because there's something so unchanging about it...
I picked this up just to kill some time until my Nefertiti book came in at the library, and figured I'd put it down then and continue later.
I could not put this book down.
Can't really give away too much of the plot, but it is very " Great Gatzby"-ish as Demille also says in his forward.
Characters were interesting and a lil weird.
or at least that it was called that.John was funny, Susan was a psycho, and Frank Bellarosa was an interesting bird also.
all in all I really enjoyed this book.
Demille is actually making a sequel to this which should be interesting.
Having read all of Nelson Deville's books on Audible, this newly added book (to Audible) was a no-brainer purchase.
This book was originally published in about 1991 (as far as I can tell).
Separate from the book is an introduction by the author, he believes that that this book will weather the test of time better than any of his other works.
Be prepared that the book is very different than his other books (i.e. The Lion's Game), But just as good!
I also highly recommend the recently published sequel to this book "The Gate House".
A more pompous jerk such as John Sutter has not graced many books.
John has all the pluses of life-wealthy wife, prestigious job, community status; but that is not enough.
John and his wife, having expended all their sexual fantasies, turn to the head of the Mafia, Frank Bellarosa, for more excitement.
Nelson DeMille plants exotic sexual scenes throughout the novel that could have been omitted.
Such extremes in one book.
John loses his ganache and becomes a raging lunatic who insults family and friends.
The book runs on and on and gets nowhere with John's disillusionment with life and work.
This book left me with mixed emotions.
It's a great book, very well written, the modern Gatsby in many ways.
But it's a bitter picture of american society, of american dream, of american family, of middle age crisis and of relationships between men and women.
It's bitter, but it's also fun (as every Demille's novels) and has that grotesque side that helps you to keep the distance from that dark side that's inside everyone of us, that helps you think "ok, this is a stretch, things aren't really like that, people doesn't really do it like this".
But under the grotesque layer, you know that people can be really like that.
