https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/103603.The_Fountain_Overflows
That was odd.***We’re not like moss or spiders, we have been cursed with self-consciousness, so living with the background static of the beckoning grave we have to protest, it’s unfair that we go into the darkness and only get to live this one life, look through this one set of eyes, and in protest, we invent art and writing and poetry and novels so as to look through many eyes, and think more thoughts in one day that would otherwise occur to us in a lifetime.
O meglio, la mamma è una pianista, di grande talento, che ha smesso di esibirsi nel momento in cui si è sposata.Il padre è un giornalista, economista, visionario, ma completamente scollato da quella che è la vita di tutti i giorni e dalle necessità e i doveri che devono essere espletati a sostentamento della propria famiglia.
purtuttavia, congedando questa notte rebecca all’agognato traguardo di pagina 486 (la postfazione per ora nun ja fò), è stato con sincero disagio che ho pronunciato la fatidica frase non-sei-tu-sono-io.perché la signora ovest qui presente ha scritto un a tratti gradevole romanzone (one), che non mi sento di definire brutto, non mi sento di sconsigliare, non mi sento di pentirmi di aver letto.
il punto credo sia qui.3 stelle sostanzialmente perché, come ebbe a dire @cristina (a cui però il libro è piaciuto assai), gli aubrey mi han fatto pensare più e più volte ai march e a piccole donne.
e io per anni volevo essere jo, come tutti.
Una famiglia strana questa; niente soldi e tante sventure, ma in compenso molta arte, molta cultura e tantissima musica, vista come parte naturale dell'essere e motore della vita.Nel libro non è importante il "cosa", ma piuttosto il "come" e le sensazioni connesse.
E' una famiglia povera, una famiglia in cui è difficile vivere; ma è una famiglia a cui tutti i componenti sono felici di appartenere.Ed è un romanzo in cui la musica ha un ruolo predominante; raramente ho trovato descrizioni musicali di tale livello (ricordo solo Thomas Mann, che lo ha fatto altrettanto bene).Un libro di più di 400 pagine che non parla di nulla che non mi ha mai annoiato e mi ha stupito quasi sempre.
I had the feeling like if you were watching yourself crying and it felt awkward like watching someone else cry and you had the unsettling feeling of not knowing what the hell they wanted from you.
You forget how to breathe when others are around, once you've noticed the difference.And what really hurts is the tears adding to this watery fountain thing of guilt about being like Rose.
Rose doesn't have her "Hey, wait a second" moment and see that her sister wanting her to be "normal" (still don't know what that is) is about herself.
I want to know if Mary felt the same way, ever.
She loved finding the right instrument for each child – the violin for Cordelia, her eldest daughter, the piano for each of her twin girls, Rose and Mary; and the flute would – some time into the story – prove to be the instrument for her young son, Richard Quinn.The author understood – and she made me understand and appreciate – the complex ties that bound that family together.The story opens with the family on the cusp of moving to a new home in South London, where they will be settled for quite some time.
Primissimo novecento: quando tutto deve ancora accadere, nella storia del secolo e delle tre ragazze (che poi in realtà diventano quattro e la quarta è un gioiello di personaggio).Quel che succede nel primo libro è la storia di un'infanzia collettiva, raccontata da una delle tre cinquant'anni dopo: le difficoltà economiche, i riti domestici, le dinamiche quotidiane, la figura contraddittoria eppure mitizzata del padre, la figura gigantesca eppure compressa e sofferente della madre, qualche personaggio di contorno da incorniciare (la Zia Lily in primis).
Per chi cerca adrenalina, movimento, effetti più o meno speciali, meglio lasciar perdere.Per gli altri, è uno romanzo di quelli che non si scordano; di sicuro è una cosa di una qualità letteraria altissima.
It throws in some satire on Edwardian society and tries to cover disparate topics from feminism, to the essence of music, to clairvoyance and the wisdom of kids / stupidity of adults.
A kid or an adult?
Are we to see from the perspective of a child or an adult?
The process is long and drawn out, and the reader, not having heard the music, doesn't know whom to believe.
And would a mom behave as this mom does?Confusion is enhanced by inclusion of poltergeists, “psychic” phenomena and make believe animals of a child's active imagination.The parents are basket cases too.
Non ci si aspetti, a dispetto delle sue oltre cinquecento pagine, un susseguirsi di eventi spalmati in un ampio ventaglio cronologico; i fatti narrati da Rose, una delle figlie dei coniugi Aubrey, godono di una prospettiva difficilmente inquadrabile in una trama specifica o in un mero susseguirsi di eventi: gli episodi salienti si contano sulle dita di una mano.
La famiglia, un padre dissipatore delle residue fortune, mente aperta e anticipatoria dei declini delle epoche successive; una madre, talentuosa pianista dedita all’educazione musicale dei suoi quattro figli; la poco dotata violinista e primogenita Cordelia; Mary e Rose, le gemelle, virtuose pianiste, e il maschietto, ultimogenito, al quale pare essere concesso strimpellare solo il flauto dolce, è un mondo a sé stante.
I so enjoyed this book. The way the story was told through the eyes of a child was wonderful, I loved Rose's personality. I really enjoyed the way the children spoke and looking into their make believe world I remembered that I had had imaginary animals too, but had completely forgotten about them until I read this ! If you are a musician or love music this book will have appeal for you.
"The Fountain Overflows" is a beautiful story about four siblings who live together with their mother in England; three sisters and one brother.
I felt kind of a disconnect to the story, but once I picked it back up, I was in love with it and it put a smile to my face.I find it very hard to rate this book because while I did love it a lot, I didn't feel as strong a connection with the four siblings as I did with the four sisters in "Little Women".
fin dalle prime pagine me bruciaveno le mano. proseguendo nella lettura sono stata travolta dal desiderio di sterminare l'intera famiglia aubrey, simpatica come un cactus su per il culo.l'ho finito solo perché ormai sono campionessa intergalattica di lettura in stradiagonale.
La famiglia Aubrey di Rebecca West esce oggi, cinque luglio, per la casa editrice Fazi ed è il primo libro di una trilogia che, come si può intuire dal titolo, fa parte di una saga familiare.Rebecca West è in realtà lo pseudonimo di Cicely Isabel Fairfield e la trilogia de La famiglia Aubrey è ispirata alla sua storia familiare.La storia è ambientata a Londra, a cavallo tra il 1800 e il 1900, e la famiglia Aubrey è composta da Piers, capofamiglia, giornalista e scrittore molto stimato, ma con il vizio del gioco e quasi totalmente disinteressato ai suoi figli; Clare, la moglie, è stata una pianista molto brava, ma ha rinunciato alla carriera di musicista per i suoi figli a cui ha trasmesso la passione per la musica; Cordelia, la figlia maggiore, è la più bella, si dedica al violino, ma non riesce a comprendere che non ha le doti musicali di sua madre e delle sue sorelle; le due gemelle, Mary e Rose, sono due ragazzine sveglie che dedicano gran parte del loro tempo al pianoforte; Richard Quinn, il figlio più piccolo, è un bambino adorabile, ma non particolarmente interessato alla musica.
Anyway, I think Rebecca West sums it up the best herself:(Describing Roses' thoughts about Rosamund beating Mr. Aubrey at a game of chess.)"But when it was time for Rosamund to make a move it was as if the game already existed, and she was waiting for her senses to tell her not what the next move should be, but what it unalterably was.
What they had been playing was stranger than a game, for here was Papa thinking out each move, obviously choosing between two or three alternatives and altering his mind at the last minute, yet here was Rosamund, not using her reason at all, simply knowing what moves succeeded each other in a game that existed somewhere in full completion, even before they sat down to play it.
Scritto negli anni della maturità da un’autrice contemporanea di Virginia Woolf, The Fountain Overflows (la Famiglia Aubrey) è un romanzo parzialmente autobiografico ambientato nel primo decennio del novecento, quando la West aveva tra gli otto e i diciotto anni.
Nel romanzo ricostruisce l’essenza della sua famiglia, due sorelle e un fratello, la vena artistica della madre per la musica e del padre per la parola, l’eccentricità di una vita ai margini del proprio ceto sociale, la costante mancanza di danaro.
Ma, come tutto ciò che è raccontato nel libro, questa è la visione di una ragazzina di otto anni, che del mondo adulto percepisce la superficie che si riflette sulla propria vita, senza comprenderne in profondità i meccanismi.
It's another little gem of the literature.This is an auto-biographical novel set in early twentieth-century London, is narrated by a twelve-year-old girl who, along with her twin sister, is a piano prodigy.
The girls’ mother--eccentric in her own way and their father is a controversial journalist.
By the end of the book, he decides to take another turn on their lives.Its sequel is This Real Night.Interesting links:Paris Review: interview with Rebecca West.Books of the Times - NY Times.BIBLIO CURIO.The International Rebecca West Society.3* The Return of the SoldierAubrey Trilogy:5* The Fountain OverflowsTR This Real NightTR Cousin RosamundTR The Thinking ReedTR Harriet HumeTR SunflowerTR Black Lamb and Grey FalconTR The Birds Fall Down
a fictionalized account of west's real family, the story follows the lives of the narrator, rose aubrey and her twin sister mary (both of whom are prodigies on the piano), their older sister cordelia, who apparently stinks at the piano, but doesn't realize it (much to the chagrine of the rest of the family), their thoroughly unflappable and adored younger brother, richard, a flautist, and their ragged, heroic mother who tries to keep the family above water while the father, a brilliant essayist and pamphleteer who is completely lacking in all matters of practicality, loses one job after another.
DNF at 65%40 days with this book and my reader's enthusiasm is now officially dead. I might as well even write a review a bit later because the book is not bad per se, it's just excruciatingly still (and presumptuous).
This is the second Rebecca West novel I've read.
My first was her unfinished novel Sunflower.
Oddly enough, I preferred that one to this, her most famous work.
Though unfinished, Sunflower had a much tighter narrative, in my opinion.Here, it seems West had so much to say, it came out all in a rush: anecdotes within anecdotes, text arbitrarily divided into paragraphs and chapters.
It felt almost manic.
It was frustrating, at times, because I craved something more linear.
Nevertheless, one can't deny the engaging characters and the beauty of the prose.
Tre stelle e mezzoI genitori sono cresciuti di avventura spensierata, i figli costretti a nutrirsi d
Non sono storie paragonabili.Nei libri della Howard ho trovato  ricchezza nella trama, per la quantità di personaggi, di sviluppi e per i magnifici intrecci che hanno dato vita a un'opera che è entrata di diritto tra le mie preferite.
Rebecca West è una penna molto diversa, la ricchezza è tutta nella scrittura.
Il lettore deve soltanto immergersi e capitolo dopo capitolo perderà remore e pregiudizi (persino quello del confronto con i Cazalet).E' un libro consigliato per gli amanti delle saghe familiari, quelle in cui i protagonisti sono i rapporti, la scrittura dettagliata e l'epoca ottocentesca.
THE FOUNTAIN OVERFLOWS. (1956). Rebecca West. ****. Rebecca West (1892-1983) was the pen name of Cicely Isabel Fairfield, an English writer and critic who, unfortunately, has faded from the public’s awareness in recent years. In her early years, she was an ardent feminist and essayist, and ran in social circles active in political issues. Her most famous book was, “Black Lamb and Grey Falcon” (1941), a travelogue and history of Yugoslavia. I’ve put off reading it for years; it runs to over 1,000
Rebecca West (1892-1983) was the pen name of Cicely Isabel Fairfield, an English writer and critic who, unfortunately, has faded from the public’s awareness in recent years.
The husband and wife, Piers and Clare, have four children.
His wife, Clare, is a housewife who interrupted her anticipated career as a musician to raise her family.
She has, instead, attempted to instill the love of music in her children, two of whom are in the process of becoming accomplished pianists.
Ms. West had a remarkable story-telling ability and a deep understanding of what makes people tick.
I originally read this brilliant book by Rebecca West when I was in my teens.
The children's father is a charming, intelligent man who is also self-centered, intolerant, ungrateful, and incapable of keeping a job.
West's own father deserted the family and her portrait of the fictional father captures the aching love and mistrust the children feel for the man.
The oldest sister, Cordelia, is hailed as a prodigy by delighted listeners, but her two younger sisters dismiss her efforts with unsentimental scorn.
Cordelia may have perfect pitch, but she is tone deaf in her soul.
Well, I gave up on this book, but maybe I should give it a second chance after reading all the glowing reviews.
I didn't like how Cordelia was treated by the rest of the family and for the longest time, I thought she actually was probably a good violinist and that Rose and Mary were mediocre pianists but couldn't accept that Cordelia was better than they were.
I probably wouldn't have read the book at all had I known that Constance's home was going to be haunted by poltergeists because that's just not something I can seriously believe in.
Wonderful book!The first of a trilogy.Utterly compelling writing.The Aubrey family live in Edwardian London.The father loves his children and makes them beautiful things but even so he struggles to keep them to the standard they are used to as he constantly speculates and leaves them in penury.It is the Mother that keeps the family together even when the Husband leaves.All is not lost though as the pictures they thought were just copies were in fact real.I loved it and can't wait to read the next book.
Lo riprenderò sicuramente, ora ho altre priorità.Mantengo le mie promesse....Ripreso , sempre grazie a chi mi ha incoraggiato : ero io che lo avevo approcciato dal un punto di vista sbagliato, non era il momento. Sto proseguendo e.... mi piace !Finito ! contentissima , un grazie speciale ad Emilio !
Recensione completa qui: https://wutheringhheights.blogspot.co...
Her conversation consisted of comments on our circumstances too bluff and too indelicate to be called sympathetic, though if they were not that they could have no purpose, and when she could think of no more she used to turn her pouches and her jowls on us children, and inquire whether we realized we must earn our livings as soon as possible, adding, “And there’ll have to be no nonsense about it either.” This phrase was surely as destitute of meaning as the baying of a dog ...Concordance Under The Exit SignIn the lingering glances at the end of Rebecca West's novel, we have some kind of certainty that borders have been crossed, consequential things have happened.
If you're looking for a book driven by plot, this isn't the choice for you.The Aubrey family is strange, but talented; Mr. Aubrey's specific talent lies in keeping the family in debt, but Mrs. Aubrey and twin daughters, Mary and Rose, have a talent in music rivaled by few.
It makes me want to go around saying "ju-jus" and being disgustingly polite, begging people's pardons and strolling in gardens like a lady.(Unfortunately for all of you, I'm not terribly good at being a lady.)What this really reminded me of is a Wes Anderson movie.
The Real Night and Cousin Rosamund complete the trilogy and both these novels were published posthumously, – and while I am not keen on unfinished works – I do now very much want to read them both.The story is that of an Edwardian family in the years before the First World War. Our narrator is Rose, one of three sisters, there is also a younger much adored brother Richard Quinn.
Now the children and their mother are to spend a few weeks on a farm in Scotland, having given notice on their flat in Edinburgh – they intend to follow Mr Aubrey to London as he starts a new job on a newspaper.
