https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34495.The_Bromeliad_Trilogy
This book is technically written for children, but honestly, I have trouble believing that a lot of 5th-8th graders will get the satire in here.
If you're looking for a laugh and enjoy British humor, then this is laugh-out-loud funny and I highly recommend it.Basically, these three short novels tell the story of a group of gnomes trying to live their tiny lives in a big world.
In the first book, a group of gnomes living in a department store believe that the store is the entire world and there is no "outside." The world was created by Arnold Brothers, Est. 1905.

First off I read the Bromeliad trilogy written by Terry Pratchett, Truckers, Diggers and Wings.
Truckers was my favourite book, getting to know the Nomes and the way they lived in the Store and how they saw humans (and Arnold Bros (est.
1905)) :P I liked Diggers least because three of my favourite characters hardly participated in it (but were thankfully fully present in Wings).
The thing which struck me was how the Nomes thought they were so different from humans but in so many ways they are so much the same, the way they interact among each other and what is important to them.
🇩🇪Ein klassischer Pratchett, auch wenn dieses Buch nicht auf der Scheibenwelt spielt.
Die Geschichte behandelt mit viel Witz große Themen wie Religion, Tradition und Gesellschaftsstrukturen.
Dabei ist es amüsant zu sehen, wie die Nomen alltägliches menschliches Verhalten interpretieren.
Insgesamt ist es ein Buch, das viel Spaß macht, aber auch Tiefe bietet.
🇬🇧A classical Pratchett even though the book is not set on the Discworld.
The story talks about big themes like religion, tradition, and social structures in e very fun and entertaining way.
Overall, it is a very fun read with depth.
I was perusing the library's catalog last week & noticed they had a Pterry book I hadn't read yet: The Bromeliad Trilogy: Truckers, Diggers, and Wings.
In the first of the 3 books, we meet Masklin, the putative leader of a small band of Nomes, trying desperately to survive in the English countryside.
Naturally, there's a culture clash, but when The Thing (a mysterious artifact that Masklin's tribe has guarded for generations) comes to life and tells them the Store is to be demolished in a few weeks' time, they must band together.
The second and third books deal with their further adventures after escaping the store and discovering their true heritage.
I love the way Terry Pratchett takes on large issues in a small way in this series.
When an author can show how organized religion limits personal spiritual development, how personal perspective keeps us from seeing the world around us, how limits to our language limit our ability to think and comprehend, and how love and community can overcome all of these things...
And, once again, I salute Terry Pratchett, who uses small people to demonstrate huge issues.
Most importantly, I applaud his ability to explore such weighty issues while keeping me laughing at his characters, his world, myself, and my world.
This is a children's novel (most of my favorite books are children's books).
A bunch of nomes....
try to find their way home.
There are lots of great barbs towards religion (some of the nomes live in a giant Store, and semi-worship "Arnold Bros (est.
They have religious wars over whether or not there is anything outside of the store - the main argument of the "store only" faction being that The Store has "Everything Under One Roof", so..
duh - nothing else outside!
Their arch nemesis is Prices Slashed, who wanders the hallways at night, with his horrifying beam of light!But..
Not funny in universally appealing way but endearing. This trilogy got better towards the ending.
Thousands of nomes have lived in The Store, Arnold Bros.
Rather reluctantly go, they do, with a couple of emergent leaders: Masklin and Grimma, two Outside nomes, Gurder, the abbot, Dorcas, the engineer, and Angalo, a young nome who likes machines.The nomes leave The Store and settle in a quarry about five miles away.
The second level is the one that makes us think about “the way things are” in our microcosms, on the off-chance that we just might ask a couple of questions, or look over the tip of the petal and discover other frogs living in other flowers on top of other trees.
terry pratchett is a dorky kid children's author who just happens to write a lot of books where the bad guy is organized religion.
now im going to try and write this entire review without using the name of this trilogy, because every time i say "bromeliad" i feel like im pantsing myself.CONTENT RELATED THOUGHTS -so, as we've already established, god and the velveteen rabbit are dead in this book.
honestly this sort of "relativity" (moral, not the boring science kind) is great for kids, but you sorta end up with terry as your dad-god surrogate.
И това е едно много подходящо наименование на трилогията, защото номите също така живеят с представата, че един Магазин е целият свят, че няма нищо друго, което да се намира Навън.
По много интересен начин Тери Пратчет пресъздава в света на номите точно онова типично човешко чувство, което ни кара да се чудим колко ли е голям светът, докато не осъзнаем колко необятен е той всъщност, че дори е трудно да си го представим.
Pratchett has a way to make me laugh at the stupidest things, that is why I love him so much.
Nomes in a human world that think Arnold Bros (est.
1905) is the greatest thing since sliced bread.But let's do this by parts, rating a whole trilogy as a whole is hard.TRUCKERSCan I say how much I love this part?
The characters are amazing, the Nome world is hilarious (both sides of it), and the Store is a blast.
We learn so much more about Nomes, probably a little too much, enough to shock the Abbot.
I like how it wraps up things, how characters evolve in the natural course of the book.
A fantastic and very funny trilogy, with a satyr of human society and an unexpected plot twist in the first book, the power struggle in the second and the “do the impossible” thing in the third one.
Friendly three books with lots of fun!Truckers:I was a confused at the beginning on what was happening until they finally arrive at the Store, the story got me there with the concept of little people living in it and the kind of lives and culture you can develop with that sort of surroundings.
Does what Pratchett does best: use a fantastic (in both senses of the word) story to reflect real-world issues.
Also, puns.So the basic premise is this: there's tiny little aliens on our world called nomes.
And because they're so tiny, they think the whole world is limited to the small patch they inhabit.
During the course of the books, the nomes keep being forced to move, and in moving, they are forced to reconsider their world view.
There's nomes who've lived in a warehouse for so long that they think the warehouse encompasses the whole universe, and that the Arnold Bros.
And that's Pratchett.

It's hard not to like a series of books based on the premise that gnomes come from outer space, let alone one that links that idea to tiny bromeliad-dwelling frogs venturing beyond their tiny flower to the larger world beyond. These books are a bit slower moving than Pratchett's Discworld novels but still full of Pratchett's excellent observations about human nature, questions about religion, and spatial awareness. Pratchett can write an ending like no one else (narratively satisfying, indeed), and the ending of the second book is exquisitely rendered. All in all worth the read, especially the second book.
The Bromliad features a party of tiny nomes who stumble upon hundreds of their type in the store, who they try to save when their home will be demolished. I enjoyed this book because it is interesting, a new concept, and overall an enjoyable read. I would recommend this book to people who enjoy danger, sci-fi ( at the most unanticipated points), and metaphors.
Very funny. Perhaps my favourite Pratchett book. The fragments from the Bible of the Mall were the funniest of all.
All lovers of nomes & smal people have to read Pratchett's Bromeliad Trilogy. It's awfully clever and amusing and full of some of the wittiest puns I've ever read :) A must!
The Bromeliad Trilogy is a book I really enjoyed reading, for those who don't know what this book is about.
This book is a trilogy of three books of the nomes journey to survive the world of humans while also finding their true home.
Digger is about the nomes trying to survive and protect their home from humans, and Wings is about some nomes that go and find a way to find their home.
I love this book for many things, I love the comedy that is displayed especially when they try to understand human nature.
And how the nomes have different perspective of the human world than humans do.
I can't remember how many times I read, and reread, this hilarious and incisive series.
It's been years now, and in looking back at the arc of the stories, I can see the underlying theme that I missed behind the hilarity of the gnomes scuttling beneath the floorboards and scrabbling for purpose in an outsized world.
It's a commentary on the role of religion, and the pressures of an analytical view of the world clashing with an prejudiced priesthood.
I think it's still one of the best series ever, and when my daughter is old enough we'll read it together.
Little people, huge problemsA trilogy about people and what makes them tick: the origin of religion, the necessity of inquisitiveness, the burden of learning… these are a few of the themes Pratchett develops with wit and humour, setting the action in the modern world, with characters scaled 1:10 of “normal humans”.
As the saga unfolds, the plot does not complexify (fortunately!) with the same speed as the horizon expands (physically and figuratively) in front of the characters.
This allows the delivery of a narrative at the same time entertaining and pedagogical, fulfilling the promise of a children book that is more than welcomed in the hands of more aged readers.
Yet again another quotable work by Sir PTerry!
Truckers, Diggers and Wings (read together as one omnibus) are fun to revisit - there's so many great jokes in here, as the nomes just don't understand the stupidity of human language and signs, and it's easy to see why these books are great for kids as they try and understand the adult world as well.
A lot of it has dated poorly (do kids today know about the old style department stores, or newspapers, or radio, or the Concorde?) but I'm sure with a guiding adult saying "back in my day..." they'll learn a bit of history too.


Bromeliad was a very witty, silly, punny book about endearing Nomes living in a human world.
They take everything they read or see very literally, never fully understanding humans and their ways.
It is a fun read for all ages.
As an adult, I can clearly see Pratchett's attempt to use the story to challenge or mock organized religion and beliefs.
Pratchett brilliantly created a story where the reader is looking down on the Nomes and secretly, quietly snickering at their constant mistakes and misinterpretations of reality.
Some parts of the story felt slow or repetitious, but the ending tied it all together well.
A delightful series of books - There is nobody quite like Terry Pratchett for making you cackle wildly with laughter and ponder weighty matters at the same time.
I read the Bromeliad trilogy after having read and loved the entire Discworld series and since it was supposed to be a children's book, I expected to be entertained but not quite as engrossed as I ended up being.
I finished all 3 books at a go and expect to re-read them again many times.
Wonderfully caustic and irreverant humour, with many underlying deeper messages, The Bromeliad Trilogy left me wanting more..
This is a clever, imaginative, cohesive trilogy about nomes trying to find their way in and out of the world. Masklin, Grimma, Dorcas, Angalo, and Gurder are such well developed characters it’s a delight to spend time with them. The book has some anti-religious undertones which I did not notice at all when I read these books years ago as an adolescent. As an adult, I could spot the anti-religious ideas but I felt that in many ways left enough ambiguity as not to be offensive to a religious reader like myself.
A fun, easy reading book about some very small people and their attempt to escape human detection. Their home in a department store is threatened when the store is sold and scheduled for demolition. They need to find a new place to live and the means to get there while staying undetected. It's more suitable for the 10-12 age range but I decided to read it because it was a Pratchett product.
Oh, how this breaks my heart... Terry Pratchett is my favorite author, how can I not like something he wrote? And yet, I have to admit that these books left me flat, with Wings being slightly better than the others. There were a few funny bits, but all in all, this trilogy simply doesn't compare to the Discworld books.
