https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23129410-welcome-to-night-vale
And I've read a *lot.*I even liked it enough to give it a blurb: "As a fan of Welcome to Night Vale, Jeffrey Cranor and Joseph Fink have delighted me with stories that are clever, twisted, beautiful, strange, wonderful, and sweet.
I think this might be the best book I’ve read in years."I don't say things like that lightly.
Few things are worse than a good book with a flop of an ending.) It's delightfully different:If you're like me, you tend to do most of your reading in a familiar genre or two.
DNF @ page 187Weirdness, with a side of monotonyLet me start off by saying: NO, I did not listen to the podcast first, and NO, I have no interest in them.
So please stop telling me I "have to hear it to appreciate it." (Also, please stop talking to me about Serial too, the only one I care about is Cinnamon Toast Crunch.)While the strangeness of the town was charming at first, it became cloyingly distracting to have every other sentence punctuated with some supernatural weirdness.
Dear God, thank you. You too, Glow Cloud.
This isn't just some attempt on my part to spit on dreams and fart on hopes for the fun of it.Ok, so, I've been a fan of WtNV for awhile now, I like it, it makes my drive to and from work more pleasant, I look foreword to new episodes and I was excited about the new book coming out.
I care about Cecil and Dana as characters because I know them.
There's already hoards of fangirls and fanboys giving this all the stars they can, and I'm sure to some people this book could just be the words A CUCKOO IS CALLINGover and over again and they'd still say it was the best damn WtNV novel they've ever read.
I was very excited to get my hands on an ARC, and got to reading it right away.And let me tell you, it was hard fuckin work to get through.
The very premise of Night Vale is that weird things happen, but everyone goes on like it's business as usual.
In a twenty minute podcast, it works, and it's hysterical.
Just once, I'd have liked someone to acknowledge that things weren't as they should be.
It's intensely difficult for the reader to connect to what's happening on the page, when the characters don't seem to connect to anything at all.It's just weird happenstance after weird happenstance, nihilistic philosophy after nihilistic philosophy...
I have no idea what I just read but I want the book! 😂🤣Happy Reading! Mel 🖤🐺🐾🎃👻
Who am I kidding .
. .Unless this turns out to be a manual on how to abuse puppies and small children, OF COURSE I'm going to give it five stars!More to come in October.
He already thinks I'm nuts, but I may have gone too far this time.And now, I'm reading .
the novel turned out to be just as quirky and involving as the podcast.
But for god's sake - Stay out of the dog park!If you have lots of free time on your hands and want to get addicted to the podcast, listen up here - http://podbay.fm/show/536258179
Time is strange here on GR) a review of Welcome to Night Vale.
The locale includes, among other things, roads that lead nowhere, mysterious lights floating above the town, black helicopters, yes those black helicopters, a faceless old woman who lives, unseen, in someone’s house, a sentient house, a diner waitress who struggles with fruit bearing tree branches growing from her body, car salesmen who offer howlingly good deals, a woman who keeps reliving her life in a perpetual loop, a sentient patch of haze, angels named Erika, people who exist but when you try to recall them, you can’t.
This book is a whole lot of things; it is weird and completely perplexing; it is hilarious and confusing; it is cynical and brilliant.
I’m not entirely sure what the novel was trying to portray.
Was he suggestive of the meaning of life, a need for answers that we will never attain?
It terms of lasting impression, this is a story I’d rather forget that I read.
In terms of plot resolution this was completely lacking.
In terms of actual plot it was lacking.
It terms of character development it was lacking.
I think I’m going to try and forget about his book.
It doesn’t bother me in the show, and I didn’t expect I’d have a problem with the book, but holy god I got like maybe four chapters in before I sat back and thought, “Wow, having to sort through all of that affected weirdness to get to the story is really annoying.”It’s just, a lot of the weirdness doesn’t really have anything to do with furthering the plot.
The last half-to-quarter of the book was much more compelling, but goddamn did I never expect to be bored by a Night Vale novel.While the ending itself was interesting in terms of character development and things-that-were-actually-happening, the explanation for King City, Troy, and the Man in the Tan Jacket was pretty bullshit.
Nightvale only tries to be a story in its opening chapter and its final chapters (at which point it comes much much too late to be acceptable, interesting, or redeemable).
This book doesn't stick close enough to a plot to even merit having red herrings, and no other characters treat such disinformation like so.And a lot of this tangential narration has nothing to do with anything.
The entire book leading up to that point was nowhere near focused enough on the main characters, the plot, or even the theme of family to deserve to try pulling the emotional moments it attempts to serve the audience.This is not a story.
You wanna know how long it takes for a novel that's compiled completely of funny little moments of weirdness and oh-you-thought-one-thing-but-it's-actually-the-opposite-ha-ha-get-it to get real goddamned annoying?
I held on hoping the preciousness would have some real motivation or explanation behind it.
Sorry, you don't get a free pass just because the town is wacky.I love existentialist crap, and some of the things in this book are shit I would say to my high school students to throw them off guard or mess with them, but goddam it just was not very funny after a few pages of them.
DNF at 30%. By this point the reader should have some kind of idea what the hell is going on, don't you think? I have no freaking clue. The narrators were good though. :)
[screams for a thousand years]
1. I HIGHLY recommend listening to the podcast first.
If you like the podcast, it’s a no-brainer.
it’s literally just a long transcript of the show without “the weather” which maybe you don’t like anyway.
The podcast is about 25 minutes with minimal plot, just lots of random weirdness going on.
Turning that into a novel is tricky, and at times it felt like I just wanted to be done and go on to another Night Vale story...
I love the podcast.
If you haven’t listened to it yet, check out the podcast immediately.
Then, listen to more of the podcast.
This wacky, wonderfully weird book was already on my radar when one of 'my' High School students enthusiastically recommended it. Of course that moved it right to the top o' the stack and I'm so very thankful.This reads as if Tom Robbins ate acid, then paired up with Hunter S. Thompson to create a completely funky pseudo-Prairie Home Companion-experience.I'll be donating my copy to my favorite High School classroom library later this week when I introduce books that can challenge the reader. Cannot wait!
I am not able to decide if I would rather like to have the book or the audiobook. I guess I'll have to listen to the hooded figures who tell me to buy both, then.
Now we have the companion novel, with the question being, will the book go hand to hand with it's digital brother or will it be a poor knock off trying to ride the shows popularity.While America is full of strange things, Night Vale takes things to the extreme with killer librarians, plastic flamingo's that are the only way to get out of the town, Angel's that are all called Erika and a man called Cecil hit's the airwaves telling us all the weird and wonderful things that happen in this little conspiracy driven town.It's against this backdrop that Diane Crayton, who is a single mother to a shape-shifting teenage son and Jackie Fierro, who is the owner of the local pawn shop and has not aged in years from her teenage form, find themselves drawn into a bigger mystery.
Super Short Review: So many have gone before me on this one that I don't have much to add. A completely different kind of read for me. I truly believe I enjoyed this so much due to listening to it in the audio format. Fink has such an knack for making the ordinary become profound. The interactions between the characters may seem mundane but there is a glimpse of deeper meaning if you think on it. A great story and now I will have to check out the podcast a bit more.
I hope you read the book and enjoy it :)As someone who isn't a regular WTNV listener (I think I've heard two of the podcast episodes), this book seemed like something of a mess to me.
There are a ton of in-jokes and references that feel like they're there for the fans, but that left me cold and dry.
Given that I had felt invested in what happened to Jackie in particular, I walked away from the book feeling let down.The main takeaway from this may just be that I'm the wrong reader for this book.
YES! A book of my favourite audio. Expect many images in this thought-box!Do you remember how we all had Nightvale reviews and grramazon deleted them. It would show good faith if we had them returned, don't you think?Nightvale was not allowed because it didn't make them a penny; it is youtube based phenomenom that will be available in 'product form' in the autumn and make lots of money. Double standard much, Bezos?Those new to the concept, check out the first episode hereBefore our reviews were deleted we discussed the clothes... and cushions...
WEIRDI loved it.I love Night Vale
$1.99 on Amazon: September 18, 2017."Hypnotic and darkly funny. . . . Belongs to a particular strain of American gothic that encompasses The Twilight Zone, Stephen King and Twin Peaks, with a bit of Tremors thrown in."--The GuardianUh, sign me up!!!
But they do, and they do it so well—complete with goosebumps, and hairs prickling on the back of your neck, and oh-god-what-if-there’s-a-tarantula-on-me-right-now, and then the sudden realization that you’ve actually come to care for the tarantula and maybe it’s not so bad if it’s there.This book takes us further into the desert town of Night Vale, even deeper into the bizarre, near-surreal culture through the eyes of perpetual-nineteen-year-old Jackie Fierro (who runs the pawn shop) and single mother Diane Crayton (whose son, Josh, has a rapidly- and constantly-changing appearance).
Love it, hate it, miss it, glad I'm done with it.
Or am I?Night Vale: a beautiful, stymie-ing, byzantine dimension.
Never heard of there being a podcast regarding Night Vale, prior to discovering this book; became a fan via the book's description.
A story about angels, aliens, ghosts, hybrid creatures, inter-dimensional spaces...?
YEP - give it to this guy.
Frustrating - yes.Did I suffer brain cramp - yes.Wreaked havoc on my ADHD - yes.Introduced me to something extraordinary - yes.
The story is told in 1st, 2nd and 3rd person narrativesThe prose is artful, clever, cryptic.
This is my first visit through Night Vale, but not my last.
I love weird things and metaphors and female friendships. This could only please me
Those new to the universe will find a mystery that’s competently crafted and compellingly written (though they’ll miss the semi-frequent references to events and characters from the podcast), while fans will get more of what they fell in love with, plus some answers to lingering questions, plus some more questions yet to be answered.
They are charming but sometimes unlikable, and that’s what makes them feel incredibly real, despite all the idiosyncrasies of existence in Night Vale.My main complaint is that I feel the book lost significant steam toward the end.
Authors Joseph Fink and Jeffrey Cranor present a story that follows two of Night Vale’s residents – Diane, an unassuming office worker with a shape-shifter for a son, and Jackie, a 19 year old pawn shop owner.
Unfortunately, this is where the story sort of lost me.While I love that Fink and Cramer are keen to expand their universe outside of the podcast, there’s a certain charm that’s lost when moving from the delightfully creepy audio presentation to the written word.
It was an oddly jarring experience absorbing Cecil’s information without his trademark voice and delivery.Outside of a few quotable lines, I found the plot quite boring and struggled to see my way through to the end.
I'm not a listener of the podcast. but this is so fascinating in all its surrealism and absurdness. such a different read from me, but nevertheless lovely.full review here: https://catshelf.wordpress.com/2015/1...
The concept is rare and peculiar, just like the podcast is, there are so many quotes to underline, the writers of Night Vale can be seriously brilliant but, being the book 400 pages long, sometimes trying to crack their characteristic narrating voice is exhausting.
This is why I don't believe that Night Vale works well in a book format.
I understand and accept the underdeveloped in the podcast because it deals with one side of the news, Cecil reports what's seen and what's happened, but rarely knows the whys and hows.
