https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/824318.The_New_Bedside_Bathtub_and_Armchair_Companion_to_Agatha_Christie
Spoiled Curtain: Poirot's Last Case >;(This book CLAIMS it doesn't spoil Agatha Christie books...but it does, it does. So only read it if you're prepared for that.
A very handy book to have if you're interested in Christie.
I had the original paperback of this book back in the early 80s, and read it until it literally fell apart.
Some of the information in it is rather dated (it was published originally in 1979) such as the movies and TV series based on her books.
However, there are very nice, detailed summaries of all the books and the most important short stories.
- that make it easy to figure out at a glance that, say, "A Murder is Announced" is a Miss Marple Novel, while "Labours of Hercules" is a Hercule Poirot short story collection.
How could you?" writes Norma Siebenheller at the end of her three page summary of "The Murder of Roger Ackroyd." If you've read "Ackroyd", you probably feel the same way.
(And if you haven't, I envy you!) But these ridiculously long summaries are pointless: a paragraph or two would have been sufficient.
On the positive side we're served very nice side dishes: the films from her books are discussed (with posters and cast pictures), there are numerous and cleverly written fan letters/articles, there is a "Mousetrap Double-Crostic", and the list goes on.
Overall, this is a solid reference book for Christie fans.
Once I discovered the Twilight Zone, I couldn't get enough and this book was a great guide in learning about the series, but also letting me know which season each episode aired.
It gave you everything you needed to know.Now this book makes it a great point in saying that they won't give away any of the murderers.
So you have hundreds of pages (the vast majority of the book is summary of the novels and stories) that ultimately lead nowhere.
If the description is supposed to entice you into reading the novel, well, it gives nearly everything away.
Very interesting book about the books of Ms. Christie, includes books that have been been turned into movies, who was the best Miss Marple and who was the worse, (you'll be surprised at this disclosure) testimony by women mystery writers who claim her as their "mother" A chapter about the disappearance of Ms. Christie for a period of time.
The book has an icon on the pages with the review of the books, indicating who is the protagonist, Hercule Poirot, Miss Marple, etc, which have been made into movies, and so on.
I read the books themselves back in the '70s.
Excellent for anyone who is interested in all things Christy. The only disappointment is that it does not cover the David Suchet films of Agatha Christy. I think he made the best Piorot.
Have been dragging my feet as I finish my last Lord Peter Wimsey mystery by Dorothy L. Sayers. She only wrote ten novels about him and this is it. I was telling my oldest daughter about that yesterday and she told me about this humorous poem in this book on Dame Agatha, the original First Lady of mystery called "The Unread Christie". I'd copy and paste it but it's copyrited, so I've provided the link instead. Enjoy! http://books.google.com/books?id=zd3y..., p348(It tickles me no end when dds are
Have been dragging my feet as I finish my last  Lord Peter Wimsey mystery by Dorothy L.
I was telling my oldest daughter about that yesterday and she told me about this humorous poem in this book on Dame Agatha, the original First Lady of mystery called "The Unread Christie".
I'd copy and paste it but it's copyrited, so I've provided the link instead.
http://books.google.com/books?id=zd3y..., p348(It tickles me no end when dds are better read than their old mom!)As for Lord Peter, the first and second editions of most desireable Companion to his sleuthing exploits are currently out of print.
A used copy goes for $379 at Amazon these.
Lots of cute commentaries and interviews with fans (a disproportionate amount that enjoy the dull Miss Marple, I might add), as well as some nice fanfictive hypothetical letters, historical context, and reading guides, but there were a few too many book summaries in here, which felt a little much like filler.
.. In progress .. Can't leave on Current shelf for year+. Helps me read Christie works in chronological order rather than alphabetical on local library shelf - was confusing. Without spoilers, exaggerates quality (No hint that Big Four is awful). Can I copy over word puzzles in order to re-use? .. More Mañana
While it had come cute puzzles and snippets of Christie's autobiography, most of the book was summaries of the plots (without whodunnit). The puzzles were for those who knew the plots intricately but the summaries where redundant for those who had read the books. Did not finish.
Along with Matthew Bunson's The Complete Agatha Christie, this book is the other must-have compendium for all Agatha Christie fans. In addition to the synopses of all Christie works, there are interesting feature articles that will certainly interest her fans.
11/15/91. Tavares. Next book, the moving finger.
A good way to remember Dame Christie's huge contribution to mysteries, romance, and plays. I even found a few I hadn't read - not many, but a couple.
I've had this book for years and love it! If you're an Agatha Christie reader/fan it is a must have book!
I registered a book at BookCrossing.com!http://www.BookCrossing.com/journal/3588752
Another invaluable reference work. For all Christie fans, newcomers and experts alike. Make certain you get the revised and updated edition.
See my review on my book blog: http://quirkyreader.livejournal.com/2...
I haven't read this book but I can't find a way to remove it.
enjoyable. alot to reference! some of the articles tho from random fans were boring
very helpful as some of her books have two or three titles and it is the same book plus you get the little extras and info.
absolutely intriguing just what I was looking for for a mystery if you like puzzling and suspenseful book this is the one
Must have book! Helps me keep track because many of Christie's books started out as short stories so they are hard to distinguish. Also some books have two or three different titles!
Not so much useful as amusing, but still nice to have on the shelf.
own it, i've not read it
Love it!
Love Agatha Christie books
