https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/127810.Two_Old_Women
The leaders of the Gwich'in people are no different and the tribal chief tells eighty year old Ch'idzigyaak and seventy five year old Sa' that they will have to be left behind as the tribe migrates to obtain food and shelter for the upcoming winter.Ch'idzigyaak and Sa' decide to conquer their situation as they have both their life experience as hunters and their pride to fall back on.
These two women still believe that they have much of their life ahead of them and are emblematic of the fact that age is but a number to look at.As this tale was an oral history passed down throughout the generations, Wallis writes this mythical tale as though she was telling.
A classic native legend of two old women surviving the cold winter in the tundra region of Alaska. A perfect quick read to kick off my year of reading Alaska and Canada, and book 1 of 2018.
5+++beautiful inspirational stars!I loved this tale of betrayal and injustice turned into hope, self-discovery, integrity, survival of extreme situation and friendship...Especially because the courageous survivors were two old frail women! “Now, because we have spent so many years convincing the younger people that we are helpless, they believe that we are no longer of use to this world.”  This is a story before the time of Western culture, a traditional Athabaskan (natives of Alaska) story hand
5+++beautiful inspirational stars!I loved this tale of betrayal and injustice turned into hope, self-discovery, integrity, survival of extreme situation and friendship...Especially because the courageous survivors were two old frail women!
This is the short story of two old women, Ch’idzigyaak and Sa’ and their struggle to survive extreme winter weather, harsh environment, hunger and the infirmity of old age after being abandoned by their family group.
Two Old Women: An Alaska Legend of Betrayal, Courage and Survival is a testament to the old saying: ‘respect your elders’, because you can still learn from them more than you think.
Update: Mom loved it, and I am so grateful that she and I share a love of fiction!Review:I loved this book.
A starving tribe of Alaskan natives leaves two old women alone in the freezing cold to die, because every mouthful of food is precious, and these two are unhelpful.
At least let's die trying.
In spite of their old, achy bodies, they thrive and bond with each other, but they are lonely and sad.Eventually, there's a happy ending, which I'll let you discover for yourself.
Two Old Women is a short book.
This book will get you up and moving, and it will make you happy.
They depended on the annual salmon runs and large game as well as small animals, using their skins for warmth.Growing up in a traditional way, the young Velma also lived in different summer and winter cabins and although no longer a child, she enjoyed the nightly stories her mother continue to narrate.
Yet it is rare that these hidden gifts are brought to life unless by chance of fate." Velma WallisThe story tells of a group of nomads, People of the arctic region of Alaska who are on the move in search of food, but this particular winter they are beset with problems, the game they usually hunt due to the excess cold have become difficult to find and the smaller animals are not enough to sustain the group.
My hard copy of the book is the 20th Anniversary edition, published in 2013.
Glad to see the publisher re-release the book to a new audience.The story follows a small band of Athabaskans in a particularly hard winter, who make the choice to leave two elderly women behind on their journeys to lighten the load (and allow more food) for the rest of the group.
It's a heartbreaking scene, and the women feel betrayed.
This sadness turns into willpower and a desire to survive, even in the harshest of environments.
A lovely story of survival and will, but also an inspiration for living.
This is a rather wonderful re-telling of a legend about two women who are abandoned by thier tribe. The book chronicles the women as they find that while surviving is hard, they can do it, and perhaps teach some lessons of thier own.
The title is so accurate, because this is indeed a book about two old women.
They are old, and maybe they don't work as hard around camp as others.
So when times get tough for the tribe, the leader leaves them behind for the sake of the tribe as a whole, because these women aren't contributors.
While this is not great literature, I loved the messages.
These women realize things about themselves that they have ignored and or didn't want to admit, but now their survival is a task that completely rests upon their own shoulders....they have no one else.
I loved their journey of discovery in the Alaskan wilderness.
I'm an older woman myself busy exploring the wilderness near the town where my husband and I have retired.
My daughter thought I'd love this book about VERY old Athabaskan women who are left behind by their migrating tribe because they would be a burden on the tribe.
Instead of going off to die in the wilderness they figure out how to survive on their own.
It is an exquisitely detailed retelling of an old legend the author grew up hearing.
She has truly honored her elders by writing this wonderful book.
It is a short read but you feel like you've lived through a long experience!
The native people in this legend are one of eleven distinct bands of nomadic tribes which belong to the Athabaskan group in northeastern Alaska.
Depending on the weather, these groups follow the sources of food - animals, plants, berries - throughout the year.
This legend is an inspirational tale of courage, perseverance, determination, and strength of spirit that the two old women exhibit as the try to survive or die trying.
Two Old Women: an Alaska Legend of Betrayal, Courage and Survival won the 1993 Western States Book Award and the 1994 Pacific Northwest Booksellers Award.
Two Old Women: An Alaska Legend of Betrayal, Courage and Survival by Velma Wallis.
A story set in Alaska's arctic circle (an area between Fort Yukon and Chalkyitsik) is about two old women of the Gwich'in People.
The Gwich'in People are one of eleven distinct Athabaskan groups in Alaska.
This is the story of two old women who do nothing while other members of The People have to assist them as they walk with their walking sticks complaining.
One hard winter The People are starving and it is decided that the two old women will be left.
So the 75 and 80 year olds set about "trying to live".
They were even helped by a daughter and grandson before being left to die: leaving a basket of babiche and gifting a hatchet.The People had thought themselves to be strong, yet they had been weak.
And the two old ones whom they thought to be the most helpless and useless had proven themselves to be strong.This is not a complicated story, and its conclusions aren't novel, but its heroines are more complicated than they had thought they were.
Despite its brevity, Two Old Women is moving, without dipping into pathos.
I've already recommended this story to two people.
A short, quick read, well worth the few afternoon hours it took me to devour the chronicling of an Alaskan legend.In the introduction, author Velma Wallis writes:   This story of the two old women is from a time long before the arrival of the Western culture, and has been handed down from generation to generation, from person to person, to my mother, and then to me. ... This story told me that there is no limit to one's ability - certainly not age - to accomplish in life what one must. Within ea
This story of the two old women is from a time long before the arrival of the Western culture, and has been handed down from generation to generation, from person to person, to my mother, and then to me.
This story told me that there is no limit to one's ability - certainly not age - to accomplish in life what one must.
Yet it is rare that these hidden gifts are brought to life unless by the chance of fate.
It is decided to leave behind two old women, that doing so will make it easier for The People.
It’s much harder to maintain a cast in as believable and engaging a complexity as is demanded by an audience over long periods of time than it is to amputate whenever plot threads have become too unwieldy or personalities have evolved past the point of simple tropes and stereotypes.
It's no surprise either that mass media coverage has either been silent, misleading (how do you have a face off between a military industrial complex and simple flesh and bone?), or genocidal, as there's nothing like making it clear to millions of European descended individuals that they should all go back to Europe to really piss the worldwide wellsprings of violence off.
How must you live your life?All alone, or with a little help from some friends, you can cling to it no matter what the odds are and if you’re lucky triumph momentarily against death. Then your story will live on as an inspiration and give courage when hope is waning and in that way you would have conquered death. Metaphorically at least.For who knows if these two old women—abandoned by their nomadic tribe during a famine— were not real life characters who were just lost in legend?
The story is simple, and is indeed inspirational.
A retelling of a long told tale about two older woman abandoned by others as they trek across the frozen Artic Circle.
The women take turns supporting each other and they manage to carve out a life complete with food and warmth that greets The People when they return, regretful of their decision and afraid that the women are long since dead.The story is a simple one, and it is inspirational in the clear message of how someones the only way to deal with something is to face it head on, bracing yourself against the wind.
I admire her cheekiness.So back to the book, I was reading and my mother chuckled and once again muttered one of those I’d rather be dead comments exactly when I read this passage from the book, “However, the two old women shared a character flaw unusual for people of those times.
So they were left behind to meet their fate.These two old women sat for a time in shock and despair, considering their plight.
The story continues as these two women pluck their courage from deep inside, put it on and face the daunting task of survival in a hostile environment.
And it's wonderful.Written by Velma Wallis, who was born on the Arctic Circle in Fort Yukon, Alaska, Two Old Women a story her mother told her when she was a child about the Athabascan people before the influence of European culture.The People, a nomadic band of Athabascan Indians, are struggling to make it through a particularly bad winter.
They grow stronger by the day and they fight to stay alive, determined if they don't succeed to die trying.The next winter the band goes back to the place where they left the women and when they do not find their bones the chief realizes they may not have died.
Two Old Women is based on an Alaskan legend.
In a time of famine, two old women are abandoned by their people during a brutal winter.
This is a beautiful, well-written re-telling of a native legend.
The depiction of the cold winter and utter aloneness the women face abandoned in the Yukon is written masterfully by Wallis.
The adventurous tale of two elderly women surviving in the wilderness alone is beautiful and heart-warming.
Plus, they learn so much their own strength and worth, while discovering the value of friendship, community, trust, forgiveness and cooperation.
Once young children get their bodies moving, they know few limitations.
Too often it seems easier to let someone else do for our aging selves.
Too often it seems easier to complain slightly in order for others to do for us.
This is the situation of the two old women.
One old woman decides to live and chastises her friend into decicing to live as well.
The two old women find that they can do far more than they thought.
Surprising and realistic how successful those two old women were.
They let others know too.

Finally I visited Alaska, one of my dream literary destinations.
The visit was short, but memorable.
This is the true story of two Alaskan nomadic elderly women who were left to die by the tribal chieftain after a collective council decision, perhaps as a strategic survival move during the very lean and bitter winter.
These women, despite their advanced ages (75 and 80), somehow found their will to live, and utilizing their collective knowledge of 150 odd years, managed to survive for more than a year.
It taught me an important lesson - age is just numbers- which hopefully I will remember in my dotage.
Two Old Woman is retelling of a legend.
I have never read, or listened to it told in its original form, so I can't say anything about that, but this is a beautiful novella.
Two old women vs.
nature may not sound very exciting, but the story is effective.
They have to rely on each other to survive.
They are old, so not very physically strong, which means they need to find a way to use all their combined skills to make it.
I've read this book once and listened to an audiobook version once, and liked the story both times.
This is a lovely legend told to the author by her grandmother, about 2 old women who are left by their tribe when the tribe grows hungry and can no longer feed everyone. Yet, these two women manage to survive a year on their own. I read it in a single sitting.
A classic tale of Athabascan folklore. An important piece of oral history that is now written for those of us with a different heritage. Short, but very good.
I probably shouldn't admit that I didnt " love this little tale". I read it for a book club, never would have chosen it
Breve relato sobre la superación y sobre que la edad no debe poner límites a la vida.Muy bonito.
Hey this was a pretty good short book about survival and old people power. About not giving up and not being frail. It sorta talks about how it might feel to the rest of the band to have to leave your old people to die in the snow cuz they can't keep up. Good Alaska story.
The story inspired her so much, that Wallis wanted to put it down to share with others.Two older women have been abandoned by their tribe and left for dead because they are thought of as a hindrance to the tribe in starvation time.
With only each other for company they have a strong companionship, but their feelings are mixed between wanting to see their people again, and also being afraid of what the people might do to them and their food stores if they were to join up again.Wallis tells the story very clearly.
Yet, they also feel hope when the old women try to survive on their own.
Every adult and every young adult should read this book, written by Velma Wallis, a younger descendant of her Athabascan Indian tribe.
Ultimately, once they work through the shock of being discarded, even by one's own daughter and grandson, they rally, and they fare much better than the rest of the tribe....they hunt better than the youngest most agile male hunters, and eventually are the catalysts that feed the others and without these two old women, in an amazing show of forgiveness, save the tribe from starvation and death.Gripping!!
