https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/73127.Secrets_of_Power_Negotiating
Next time instead of a lunch break, go to the bookstore and find this book.
Simply go through each chapter and at the end of most chapters, there are a list of bullet points that summarize the chapter's ideas.There are 50 some chapters, but not every chapter has a bullet point list and not ever chapter is applicable (e.g., negotiation methods of Americans).
if you have the real time and desire to read this book, READ IT!Dawson beautifully breaks down the psychology of negotiation, from gambits to their counters (and sometimes counter-counters).
Most chapters end with bullet points.
True deadlocks are very rare, so you've probably reached only an impasse.""Handle an impasse with the Set-Aside Gambit: "Let's just set that aside for a moment and talk about some of the other issues, may we?"""Create momentum by resolving minor issues first, but don't narrow the negotiation down to only one issue.""The way that you make concessions can create a pattern of expectations in the other person's mind.""Don't make equal-size concessions, because the other side will keep on pushing.""Don't make your last concession a big one, because it creates hostility.""Never concede your entire negotiating range just because the other person calls for your "last and final" proposal or claims that he or she "doesn't like to negotiate."""Taper the concessions to communicate that the other side is getting the best possible deal.""Why are people reluctant to gather information?
At first read, a classic this is not. "Secrets" is a stretch. More like: "Anecdotes that worked once or twice for me, so the approach might work for you. (Just buy my book.)"This book definitely does not instantly create a power negotiator. The author's approach and recommendations seem ineffective and, sometimes, crass.That said, I'm willing to give them a shot. I will let you know if they work. Anyone want to buy a 2004 Honda Civic?
Although decidedly geared toward its obvious target audience of professional negotiators, the book offers a wealth of valuable information for anyone.
Every chapter offers at least one point of value, although the early chapters do feel like they’re belaboring their points some.
But then the book veers away from traditional negotiating wisdom into the fascinating realm of criminal negotiators and even (my favorite bit) the differing mindsets and mores of various nationalities.
It ends with an equally interesting section on the various specific aspects of personal power.
I won’t say it changed my life, but I do feel better educated for having read it.
This book is mainly about the "tactics" of negotiation, "gambits" as Roger calls them. Some of them are useful too. But if were to pick a single book on negotiation, I'd go for "Negotiation Genius" by Malhotra, which has a much bigger scope of coverage.My rating for this book: 7/10
This could be thought of as a set of practices (which Dawson calls gambits), with one underlying principle: A power negotiator always finishes a deal with her counterpart thinking that she got the better end of the deal.
When you make a concession in a negotiation, its perceived value will decrease right away, because the counterpart will already think that she has it, and it came for free.
Dawson advises the reader to use communication techniques that aim to pull the counterpart to the negotiator's side, instead of attacking her head on.Just as important as the psychological effects on another person are those on your own self.
It's not the need to be liked as he proposed, but the need to be social, to have people around you.
Thus, he is wrong when he says Power Negotiators skip over that step since they don't need to be liked.
If anything, they require that step more than anyone else because without people, who would they negotiate with?I agree with my professor in that Dawson's "ethically challenged." The things he says are fine tactics are not all good tactics and some of what he views as unethical seem not so bad to me.
Read this book and you'll probably end up with a very different view of negotiation.
Some things, like the "silent close" are quite difficult to actually implement -- but are crazy powerful.I was amazed at how difficult it is to actually ask for what you want.
Social norms make it hard to ask for money, but practice makes it easier.If you want easy cash try this trick I discovered.
When you're getting work done on your car, ask for a "customer loyalty discount".
Worked every time!
Magic free money in exchange for a tiny bit of bravery.
That's what this book is all about.
Despite the dubious name, this is a real gem. Can't recommend it enough.
among the 3 best books on negotation
يعتبر هاد الكتاب من أفضل ما قرأت من ناحية المامو بمعظم تكنيكات تفاوض القوة أو التفاوض التوزيعي..يعاب عليه عدم وجود أي حالات عملية أو دراسات حالة في نهاية كل قسم أو فصل مقارنة بكتب أخرى..
Good content, but the pretentious style might prove very challenging to swallow for non-americans. Be prepared to roll your eyes often.
But just like a game of chess, you need to learn the techniques with which to play the game.The book offers many techniques which you can practice and master that helps you gain what you need from a negotiation at work, home, etc.
You need to learn the techniques to protect yourself and gain what is your right.Of course not all of the techniques will always have the intended outcome (just like a game of chess).
Moreover, the sense of confidence you gain by having the knowledge of how the game is played would simply steer you to a better solution than previously was possible for you.I wholly recommend this book to anyone who is a beginner or intermediate negotiator.
It is an okay book. I was expecting a shorter read but when i saw how many chapters it had my jaw went down south. Dont buy this book as an ebook, it has so much interesting content that you probably will have to read everything a few times. I can highly recommend this book to anyone who works in sales and/or looking to buy a property
I thought this was a great book, and I definitely got some serious value out of it. Really helped me out. I think the best part of this book is that the advice is directly actionable, not just vague and "inspirational" wash. I liked it so much I bought a couple more from Mr. Dawson too.
I found this info pretty rudimentary however was worth a quick listen.Top takeaways:Always flinch at the initial price. Always ask for more than you want so the other person can get a win when you drop the price.
My 6th book of the year - This book is a real gem. It gives a different perspective of negotiation along with different tactics. Even though some points are quite hard to practice, but they are too powerful ones. A must-read for sure.
Book for those who want..For those who want to become power negotiators this book explains the most important skills to develop. I recommend this book
One of the most useful books which I've read. You can and should apply the tactics in any type of communication setting to reach a win win!
Poin-poin yang dipaparkan mudah diaplikasikan untuk semua kalangan
The best book on Negotiating that I've ever read
Veers into irrelevant filler after about the halfway mark
very useful to understand whats going on the negotiation, so you can decide the best way to react
meh.
Really insightful stuff. Dives deep into the psychology of the negotiating process. I would qualify this as a must-read for anyone who wants to improve on their negotiation skills.
super old school, mostly applies to business. But I will definitely reread if I need more tips. I got a handful of small practical tips
Together with getting to yes, to avoid bias toward you spoiling the relationship (even thou author states he wants to avoid it, getting to yes does a better job on that front).
كتاب رائع جدا ومدخل مبسط للتفاوض بشكل عام بعيدا عن التخصص الموجود بباقي كتب التفاوض متنوع بشكل كبير وشامل الجواتب النفسية الداخلية والخارجية للمفاوض والمفاوضات .
This books presents some valuable tips and some insights into negotiation, although it feels anecdotal. Restructured, it could have been more pleasant, captivating and easier to remember in 2/3rd of the page count. Read the little recap sections at the end of each chapter and you'll have a good, usable summary to get on the road and try what works.
All time GREAT advice, tips, tactics and strategies on how to Negotiate. Not just for those in sales or positions that require negotiating skills. It's advice that we can use in everyday life...parenting, consumer power, relationship building and simply understanding how to maximize your potential.
