https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6224826-juliet-naked
(B) 75% | More than SatisfactoryNotes: Well written but lacks vigor, excitement and soul. Characters change, but so predictably as to garner very little effect.
Annie, a 39-ish small time museum curator who recently broke up with Duncan, a pudgy 40ish school teacher whose whole cultural life revolves around his obsession over Tucker Crowe--a Dylan-esque singer who pulled a Salinger in the mid 1980s and left behind one really great break-up album that fans have been pulling apart, analyzing, blogging, sitting-in-the-dark-woe-is-me-ing over for the past 25 years.
”What do you do if you think you’ve wasted fifteen years of your life?” Are you kidding me?
I mean, obviously I’ve wasted more than fifteen years, but I’m hoping you’ll overlook the extra and look upon me as a kindred spirit anyway.
If you’re familiar with Nick Hornby, or better still, if you’ve read this book, then the following quiz will test how well your impressions correlate with mine.
Annie is surprised to find herself in e-contact with Tucker where they share regrets about lost time and the paths they’ve taken.
A theme in previous Hornby books that was repeated in this one (though not necessarily concluding that it was right) was thata.
“There comes a time when you look into the mirror and you realize that what you see is all that you will ever be.
The book lost a star off its rating in the end becausea.
The first half of this book is Hornby at his best – creating interesting, believable characters and exploring the dynamics of relationships with his usual ear for dialogue and understanding of people’s often highly personal obsessions and motivations.
Surprisingly however, once all the characters are properly introduced and the scenario established, the author seems to lose his way.
When the story should be gearing towards a climax with the central characters finally coming together its as if Hornby doesn’t seem to know what to do with them.
As such, the story rather peters out into a series of mild encounters and predictable, half-baked resolutions.
“Juliet, Naked” spoke to me on a personal level at this point in my life, right after the end of a long term relationship.
This novel deftly captures how that can trap you with the wrong person in a manner I have rarely seen so effectively used in modern literature.This book is about finding what really matters in life.
Hornby has created people, just normal folks, with the good and bad mixed in together.
“Juliet, Naked” is well written, nicely plotted, realistic enough to be satisfying, and honest and accurate enough about human nature to be a little unnerving, in a good way.
Well that was... extremely disappointing 😐
And I appreciate being surrounded by like-minded people, even if it’s only on a page.The greatest of these little truths that Hornby revealed in this book was the synthesis of art, and musical art in particular.
Not because I wanted her back, but because I recognized, even then, the ridiculousness of singing a song of wistful longing for that particular girl.
He sees hundreds of people singing along to songs he wrote about a girl he really didn’t even like all that much, and it’s too much for him.
I don’t know that any rock star would really feel that way, but it’s certainly how we’d like to see them, and that’s why Nick Hornby is so great.
All night I was going back and forth in my head as to whether to give this 4 or 5 stars, and as I couldn't think of a reason not to give it 5, I decided to do so.
(And for those who might think Hornby can only create male characters, he's created a female protagonist here (Annie) that is as good as the main character (Katie) in How to Be Good.) Along with Hornby's fun, witty (and sometimes sarcastic) humor, the book is also sprinkled with meditations on the internet, on parenthood, on the nature of art and talent and writing, making it all that much richer.
I went into this book thinking "Who would Hugh Grant play in the movie adaptation" and who would play all the other characters. I’ve settled on Emily Blunt for Annie, Hugh Grant as Duncan and Tucker Crowe to be played by Jeff Bridges. Needless to say, I had a lot of fun reading this book; it just fitted so well as an English Rom-Com and I enjoyed every minute of this book. There is no great depth to this book but it was a pleasure to read.
In their spare time, they tour various sites associated with Crowe, most notably the restroom in a Minneapolis bar where, legend has it, some unexplained catastrophic event led Crowe to abandon his fans and his career.Annie, a museum curator has been living with Duncan for fifteen years.
She has patiently endured Duncan's slavish devotion to Crowe, but her relationship with Duncan has left her unfulfilled for a good long time, and only inertia has prevented her from moving on.
Wie ich schon mehrmals in einigen Rezensionen erwähnt habe, halte ich Nick Hornby für einen großartigen Starter von Romanen, die wenigsten Autoren können so gut unvermittelt und auch mit ein bisschen beißender Ironie eine Geschichte beginnen, aber auch für einen der schlechtesten Finisher im Literaturbetrieb.
So wie es mein Goodreads-Freund Armin formuliert hat, agiert Hornby gleich seinen Figuren, die auch immer alles verpatzen, wobei eine Katastrophe am Ende in einem fiktiven Plot mit fiktiven Figuren ja wesentlich besser und amüsanter ist als ein realer Qualitätsabfall im Werk.Auch bei Juliet, Naked ist es nicht anders.
Either way it turned out to be a pretty good story.I approached this book with the expectation that I wasn’t going to like the book.
"Juliet, Naked" refers to a CD album that is a followup to another album release about twenty years earlier named "Juliet." The singer has been missing in all the years in between which has allowed his fans to imagine all kinds of things about the missing artist.It turns out that the ex-girlfriend of the "expert" fan blogger was the only person able to get through to the missing singer.
He’s so good when he writes about music that it often seems like he’s the first one to express that thought in such a wonderful way.
He’s not so good at writing about relationships, which is why Juliet, Naked is about 50% great, 50% total crap, and 100% frustrating.First of all, if this book were written by Nicolette Hornby it’d have a pink cover and there’d be some shoes and probably a shopping bag featured prominently.
This is what I like to call “dick lit” which is really just chick lit written by a man.
Though I've always liked Hornby's writing--he's funny, he creates rich characters and never caricatures, and he's one of the few writers I can think of who tackles the topics of fannishness and obsession--High Fidelity, his first novel--and, according to many of my male friends, his best--has always bugged me a bit.
Annie, Duncan and Tucker find themselves in a strange love triangle.
Annie and Duncan have been a couple for 15 years, but Duncan's obsession with former rock star Tucker Crowe has always been an issue.
Now after years of being a recluse, an acoustic version of Tucker's famous album "Juliet" has been released, fanning the flames of Duncan's fanboy web postings - and making Annie question their relationship more than ever.
Annie, Duncan and Tucker were just all too whiny for my liking (and this is coming from the girl who LOVED the story about a group of suicidals by the same author).
Любимата ми книга на Ник Хорнби! Не бях чела нищо негово скоро и тази ми подейства ужасно добре. И пак имам любим герой, който ми напомня на Ричард Кац от Свобода на Франзен. Този път се казва Тъкър Кроу.В романа има много взаимоотношения с през проблемите на сегашното време. Има музика и разни други мои си неща. Готина история, супер роман. Истината за даден човек винаги е разочароваща.Трябва да призная, че никога не успях да разбера какво е двама души да си пасват (...) Събираме се с други хор
Истината за даден човек винаги е разочароваща.Трябва да призная, че никога не успях да разбера какво е двама души да си пасват (...) Събираме се с други хора, защото сме еднакви или различни, и накрая се разделяме по абсолютно същите причини.Той бе от първите възмутени, когато държавата започваше да се намесва твърде много в личния живот на хората, но дали в случаи като този не бе необходима всъщност малко повече намеса?
It's also thoughtful; there are passages about the way time can pass without you realizing that your life is passing you by, and suddenly you have wasted a decade in a relationship you knew really didn't have a future but were too listless to get yourself out of.
But it made me happy to be in a relationship I think does have a future at the same time.
One thing I do find annoying any time I read a book about a made-up rock legend is that I can't listen to the made-up songs that are described with such reverence.
Why don't your stupid fake songs exist, Nick Hornby?
Und einige wenige machen einen richtig wütend, da sie von unterirdischer Qualität sind oder man einfach maßlos enttäuscht wurde.
Daher befanden sich About a Boy, How to be good und vor allem A Long way down bei mir auf dem absteigenden Ast. Juliet nacked fängt gut an, wenn er das Pärchen Duncan und Annie beschreibt, wie sie auf den Spuren des Singer Songwriter Tucker Crowe sich bewegen, der seit 20 Jahren untergetaucht ist.
Hätte das Buch Duncans Besessenheit von seinem Lieblingsmusiker und dessen Desinteresse an der Wiedererhaltung von Popularität zum Leitmotiv gehabt, dann wäre aus dem Buch etwas geworden.
I guess I’m not so good at rating things.When I do come across something I loved and want to share, I tend to cite quotes and passages as a way to tell people why they need to read/watch the intended work.
And in this case, stand-alone passages won’t do, because it’s the intricacies of the text, all the things in it that interlace, that create its best moments.On several occasions while reading Nick Hornby’s new novel, "Juliet, Naked", I was compulsed to stop reading and laugh “with inappropriate volume and vigor, and at preposterous length” (as a character in the book once did).
The three main characters are Annie, a young woman closing in on forty who gave up 15 (and her most fertile)years to Duncan whom she never was really all that in love with anyway.
Duncan is a rather boring, nerdy professor and an obsessive devotee to Tucker Crowe, an 80's rock n roller who walked away from his career, and life, after releasing his most well received album Juliet, Naked.
Now closing in on 60, Tucker has two, soon to be three, ex-wives,too many ex-girlfriends, and 5 kids, of which only one has known him as a real dad.
Only Nick Hornby could make me want to listen to a musician who doesn't exist.
Hornby's descriptions of his fabled character and his genius albums made me want to download all his music on to my IPod, but I had to keep reminding myself that there is no Tucker Crowe, there is no "Juliet".
I became so invested in the characters and their music obsessions that I wanted to hear it too, I wanted to be able to make my own decision on Crowe's legacy.Outside the music Hornby makes great points about what the word success means and what it means to each of us.
5 stars for “High Fidelity”, 4 stars for “About a Boy”, 3 for “Fever Pitch” (ok, the book was better but I don’t like Arsenal), 2 for “A Long Way Down” and one for “Slam”.
Admittedly the story is a little far-fetched and constructed and reminds me of some Hollywood plots for the X-mas season (my suggestion: Jack Nicholson as Tucker and Renée Zellweger as Annie).
225).But there are wonderful episodes and characters that are really funny just like in “High Fidelity”.
Always helps me, when I’m under the weather.” [Terry:]“He’s not under the weather,” said Annie.
Niente di straordinario, se conoscete "Alta fedeltà" - indubbiamente questo non raggiunge quelle vette, ma il terreno, quello della commedia romantica/musicale, è quello su cui Hornby si trova più a suo agio, e si vede.
Hornby conosce benissimo le complicazioni della vita di coppia, e sa farci riflettere sui nostri comportamenti in situazioni simili, senza presunzione.
Spero che continui su questa strada, è quella che conosce meglio, e non è detto che prima o poi non trovi l'ispirazione per un altro romanzo del calibro di "Alta fedeltà"...
In this particular case the point is saving you the precious moments you might have spent reading this tedious composition of utter dross.I understand that Nick Hornby is one of the most popular writers in the UK, which shows I probably don't understand much.
If the basic premise of the book (an over-the-hill once-famous songwriter meeting an over-the-hill museum curator on the internet) wasn't dire enough, the way that Hornby manages to make the reader feel as if he is celebrating neurosis and emotionally stunted characters will soon put you off this story.The sad thing is that Hornby can write.

Duncan’s obsession with Tucker Crowe, an obscure singer-songwriter who has not released any new material after his seminal 1986 album, Juliet, is not just a weekend hobby.
When Crowe unexpectedly releases a demo tape of Juliet (subsequently known as Juliet, Naked by fans), Annie gets her double chance at revenge: first by listening to the album ahead of Duncan (unthinkable!), and then by writing a negative review of it on Duncan’s website (how dare you!).
Hornby is in a fine form here, but the ending somehow feels anticlimactic after so much build up earlier on, and some parts with Crowe and Annie feel redundant to the point of dullness.
Und nachdem Annie auf dem heimischen Markt die ultimative Enttäuschung erlebt hat, macht sich Tucker Crowe wirklich auf den Weg nach England, erleidet dort einen Herzinfarkt, Gelegenheit für den Autor das Geheimnis hinter dem spontanen Abbruch der Karriere aufzuklären, besonders genossen habe ich die Stelle, an der das ganze Juliet-Album als die Poserei entlarvt wird als die mir dieses ganze Pseudo-Jung-Dylan-Getue die ganze Zeit über vorgekommen ist.
Sogar die Armseligkeit der von Annie betrauten Ausstellung hätte eine bessere Beschreibung verdient, selbst wenn man sich um das Zusammensein zwischen Annie und Tucker drumherum drückt, ob aus britischer Prüderie oder sonstigem Unvermögen.
I love Hornby's style - he is completely readable, says things just like they are, and isn't pretentious and doesn't take himself too seriously.Some of my favorite quotes:page 120: "She stopped typing.
She needed a fuck-it key, something that made a satisfying ka-boom noise when you thumped it."page 124: "If one were to imagine, for the sake of argument, that jigsaw pieces had thoughts and feelings, then it was possible to imagine them saying to themselves, 'I'm going to stay here.
We just wouldn't look right together.' And that would be that."page 139-40: "Malcolm went quiet.
I've grown weary of Nick Hornby's archetypal obsessive, emotionally stunted fan boy.
The big change-up here is that we see the fan boy (Duncan) mostly through the eyes of the woman he annoys (Annie).
And Duncan is obsessed with a washed-up, reclusive American songwriter named Tucker Crowe who's likened to Bob Dylan, Springsteen, and/or Leonard Cohen approximately 42 times throughout the book.
Annie is a compelling character, and Nick Hornby is still a good storyteller, and it's easy to imagine this novel turned into a film.
For example: "Tucker had mentioned in his e-mail that he was single again, so...she didn't need to spell it out.
There was a book that also came out last year called "The Song Is You", which touched on similar themes of music and obsession.
The themes fare much better in Nick Hornby's hands.
I feel more for his characters because they feel more like real people.
It's to his credit that the one scene that I dreaded as inevitable never happened, and much better scenes happened instead.As always, his prose seems effortless.
If the goal of makeup is to make it seem like you're not wearing makeup but you woke with a healthy glow, Hornby does the same with what are no doubt carefully chosen words.
