https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30935.The_Loved_One
The copy I had of this was used, and had underlines where the previous reader would note in the margin "funny," and "ha." This reader stopped doing this by the third or fourth page, either because s/he no longer found it funny, or it became absurd to underline all passages and mark them as "ha." I think most readers will fall into either of these categories. I am in "ha."
Much of it is about misunderstandings and cultural differences between Britain and America, and some of this seems as relevant as ever.The story centres on Dennis Barlow, a young British writer who is earning his keep by working at a pet cemetery.
To say much more would spoil the book for anyone new to it, but Waugh doesn't spare much sympathy for any of the characters, all of whom are rather one-dimensional.The book is full of very funny moments and a pleasure to read.
While there, he became fascinated by the ‘unsurpassed glories,’ of a cemetery, which is renamed here as, “Whispering Glades.” The book was published in 1948 and is set in Hollywood; among the British expat community.
When Dennis has to organise a funeral, he visits “Whispering Glades,” which his own pet funeral parlour is modelled on.
There he comes across the young Aimee Thanatogenos, a junior cosmetician, with a bad memory for, “live faces.” Dennis begins to woo her, by sending love poems, not necessarily written by himself.
Thank you.In my late teens and early twenties, I was fond of saying that men were evil and that women were stupid.
Thus, there is a tendency for men at their weakest to approach 'evil' in their relationships with women because they retain some semblance of power.
Of course this evil/stupid dichotomy isn't limited to gender politics.
There's no (or at least less) moral culpability in being stupid, and being evil is most definitely a far worse judgment.' Yes, but...
What an excellent book! It definitely kept my interest and had I not had other things to do I would have read the book in one sitting! Funny, in spots especially when Dennis Barlow is planning the funeral with Miss Thanatogenos! I nearly split a gut! I would highly recommend this book to all! Enjoy!
Evelyn Waugh is my guilty pleasure. His books are like candy, they are so easy to read. But if they are candy, they are lemon drops coated with arsenic. Waugh's bitter, sarcastic, and completely devastating portraits of humanity warm my heart. His characters destroy each other's lives so casually, and I love it. In The Loved One, Waugh takes on L.A. British neocolonial snobbery in post-war Southern California, set in a Disneyesque funeral home (actually a "memorial park") and a much less classy pet cemetery ("The Happier Hunting Ground"): how much better can life be?
What is this thing necrophilia?
According to Evelyn Waugh it is a truly megalomaniac obsession with burying the dead.
And The Loved One is a cynically murderous and hilarious… obituary.“Our Grade A service includes several unique features.
At the moment of committal, a white dove, symbolizing the deceased’s soul, is liberated over the crematorium.”An authentic talent, applied properly, allows even death to become a cosmic triumphal event.“Hair, skin and nails and I brief the embalmers for expression and pose.
Have you brought any photographs of your Loved One?
Was he a very cheerful old gentleman?”And death needs many gifted artists at its service…
A supremely enjoyable, blackly comic satire of certain traits of American culture which, despite being first published in 1948, still feels remarkably contemporary in 2017.
The characters are cyphers for what Evelyn Waugh (and sane people everywhere) perceive as the ridiculousness of some aspects of contemporary culture specifically film studios and cemeteries.
Most of the action takes place in a Los Angeles-based film studio, a pet cemetery, and Whispering Glades (based on Forest Lawn Memorial Park in Glendale) and all of these, according to Waugh, are branches of show business and places of illusion.
When a fellow Briton, in a similar predicament, doesn’t end up taking it as “well” as Dennis, Dennis finds himself navigating the (rather complicated) world of the Whispering Glades, which gives human loved ones their last farewell, which he finds is as concerned with images and appearances as Hollywood itself.
In this absurd world, he also finds love in the somewhat morbid Aimee Thanatogenous, beautician for the loved ones at Whispering Glades, and has competition in Mr Joyboy the embalmer.The book takes us to not one but perhaps three crazy worlds, that of death and funerals, of Hollywood and its glamour, and of British expats living and working in California.
Brief, satirical and rather funny novel about the American funeral industry.
Waugh visited California in 1947; he didn't like it, finding the tendency of the "lower orders" to ask personal questions rather irritating.
It involves Aimee Thanatogenos, who works at Whispering Glades, a funeral emporium.
The other is Dennis Barlow an English "poet" and trickster who works at a crematorium for pets (watch out for the funeral of the parrot).
When asked what Hogmanay was, Dennis replies "People being sick on the pavement in Glasgow".
I think Nancy Mitford did the subject more effectively, but Waugh is funny, if flimsy
The last couple of pages of this book made me chuckle. It's not everyday that you read a book about a cosmetician for the dead, an embalmer, and a pet cemetery employee with a poetic bent. The Hollywood Forever cemetery holds new meaning for me now.
A fine way to satirize the fixed-grin plastic decadence of nearly-1950s America.) Nor should those who might mind characters' blase attitude and one-liners about other characters' deaths, including those self-inflicted.
I particularly liked the way he makes embalmers and corpse-beauticians creepy; that whole related business of ceremonially viewing corpses is so undignified and medieval.I considered docking half a star for a plot device copied from a very well-known source (there's also a rather less-hackneyed reference to Nathanael West's Miss Lonelyhearts), and the ending was a tad unsatisfying* and may or may not veer off the trajectory of the rest of the book.
* (view spoiler)[Aimee's death seems rather out of character, even if it does fit her name.
I found this book slightly disturbing...it seemed to me that the point being made was that a life 'lived well' is often hidden behind a veil of conformity - that veil often being more important than happiness. My fist reading of Waugh, but not my last.
Satirical. Funny. Abrupt.
Waugh has the dry, underhanded wit that I adore, the sly sort of humor that can be easily missed by the distracted or the terminally stupid. And as morbid as it may be, the scene surrounding the preparations for the Loved One's final arrangements had me laughing out loud through the duration, a perfect lampooning of the industry. Brilliant!
On the receiving end of this advice, and the specific reason for Ambrose's visit, is Dennis Barlow, sometime poet and pet cremator at Happier Hunting Grounds, who is in danger of becoming persona non grata for letting the side down- that job is just not what the British should be doing old boy, we have a reputation to uphold, don't you know etc etc.
Certainly much of the mocking criticism of Hollywood and the funeral industry is now appropriate for an even wider application in modern society: what is there left that isn't all about the show?And this Scottish joke hasn't aged at all...What is a 'canty day', Dennis?-I've never troubled to ask.
I had seen the 1965 movie of the same name by director Tony Richardson and Richardson seems to have followed the script quite well.The Loved One is full of sly, macabre humour, and some of the funniest scenes occur when Aimee goes home with Mr. Joyboy to meet his mother–a miserable woman whose bosom companion is a naked parrot named Sambo.
The Loved One is one of the oddest novels in the English language, and it’s certainly bizarre that a funeral home is the setting of a comic novel.
Waugh–ever known for a biting, wicked sense of humour, exploits the language and internal politics of the funeral industry beautifully and mercilessly.
I was looking for a short, quick read, and the cool Quentin Blake artwork on the front cover and interesting blurb on the back really drew me in.This is an odd little story, about a young English poet and pets' mortician named Dennis Barlow who becomes involved with a not-so-traditional Californian girl, the corpse beautician Aimée Thanatogenos.
I plan on reading more Waugh in the future, but if you like his writing and have not heard of this short novel, I would very much recommend it.

Perhaps the somewhat unusual humor appealed to me.
I tend to find such things as funeral parlors and crematoriums amusing.
I do not, however, find the story to be quite as condescending towards Americans as some people have said it was.
In fact, I would say that there are no attractive characters in the story.
Which is part of the reason why the story is so attractive.
As it is, one can laugh at the fate of the loved one.
In all, it is an amusing romp into Waugh’s brain, albeit a somewhat demented one.
Well, *I* laughed at least…
The Loved One: An Anglo-American Tragedy by Evelyn Waugh is in every way a hoot, though somewhat nasty withal.
The nastiness creeps in where the two main Californians, Aimee Thanatogenos and Mr. Joyboy, are concerned.
Dennis takes the crown when he arranges to have the following card sent to the inconsolable Joyboy every year at the anniversary of Aimee's death:"Your little Aimee is wagging her tail in heaven tonight, thinking of you."There is a certain savagery in Waugh's sense of humor, but it makes for an excellent read.
BackgroundEvelyn Waugh got inspiration for this story when he visited Forest Lawn cemetery in the Hollywood during his visit to the U.S. to discuss the making of his bestseller 'Brideshead revisited' into a movie.
At the Forest Lawn,cadavers were referred to as 'the loved ones' and that seems to be the inspiration for the title.
My take of the book..This is my first reading of Evelyn Waugh.
The book is a satire on many things-religion,newspapers,marriage,funeral practices etc.
When the book was made into a movie,the tag line was 'a motion picture with something to offend everyone.' Well..
If anything, you suspect Waugh loathes them more: they knowingly sacrifice their personal talents and culture to serve 'cod art' - aka Hollywood.
Behind the ravaging of social pretension, this story is about Art and Culture getting twisted and contorted by capitalism: the human impulse to honour 'Loved Ones' is transformed into a process in which silver tongued salespeople 'supersize' the bereaved to buy ever more expensive caskets and ceremonies.
The irony that most of the people running the show in the book (film producers, crematorium bosses) don't know their Aristophanes from their Elbows makes the comedy sharper but the impact on the characters and Society is tragic.
This fun little novella is filled with Waugh staples; mean Brits abroad and parodies of the natives.
If you feel the need to identify with the characters in the books you read then I think you should consider avoiding Evelyn Waugh, you might miss the point of his work entirely.Interestingly I think I enjoyed the movie adaptation more as it heightened the quite surreal elements of this story, managing to become a cross between Waugh and Dr Strangelove and it is in that aspect that I found the novel lacking.
The perils of watching the movie before reading the book.
I loved The Loved One. I had no expectations and knew nothing about the book so the turns the plot took delighted me.
I was not expecting the book's cynical brand of dark humour and I ended up being pleasantly surprised throughout.
Basically cynical English poet whose dayjob is working at a pet cemetery falls for the cosmetician at an extremely upmarket cemetery and a love triangle ensues -- cosmetician is also pursued by a senior mortician.
Poet has to hide the fact that he works at a pet cemetery from his beloved as she looks down on it.
An 'Anglo-American Tragedy' ensues.
There is a film to this, which I haven't seen, but think I would have liked to.
This is Waugh's where else but America book.Imagine the sort of book an Englishman would write about living in LA and working in a funeral parlour for animals who fancies a local woman who works in a funeral parlour for people and sends her poetry he has written, just for her - you know - like Shall I compare thee...
More on this soon.
Evelyn Waugh at his best. His observation of the English sensibility offset against that of the American, both mutually enhanced in the world of Hollywood and Los Angeles, are told with a superb balance of black humour and beautiful, if stinging, observation. There is so much in these pages. Added to the mix is the satire of how Hollywood looks at death, blurring reality and fantasy and dreams.The characters are from various class backgrounds, and all are like a Hollywood backdrop facade, none are what they appear. The sage advice newspaper columnist The Guru Brahmin is an hilarious example.
I have actually wanted to read this for a long time. I had no idea what I was getting into. The was a fantastically hilarious book....in a snarky snide dark gallows humor manner...I simply ADORED it.
I read this 50 years ago, and thought that it was fairly funny then. On a re-read, I think that it is brilliant satire, of a very dark and bitter kind. Waugh's prose is superb.
He falls in love with a young woman whom happens to work for the lush and expansive Human cemetery as a cosmetician.
She also happens to be in a semi-committed relationship with the Human Cemetery's Head Embalmer, Mr. Joyboy.
Period." I found it absolutely fascinating, and when I learned that one of the largest and (in my opinion) most over-the-top ridiculous cemeteries in the world was lampooned in mister Waugh's short novel, well I had to check it out.I am certainly glad I did, as it was one of the more rewarding reading experiences I have enjoyed in recent years.Five Stars.
