https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/153781.Magic_Steps
Four years after the magical plague swept their city in Briar's Story, the magical students of Winding Circle have separated to pursue further training.
Sandry, whose gift lies in weaving magic as though it were thread, discovers a boy with a strange ability.
Everyone else in his family is a harrier (the city's version of police), but Sandry convinces them to let him train with her.
The assassins are using a terrifying form of un-magic, and even Sandry's weaving magic is hard-pressed to deal with it.
The portions of this book that deal with her and her magic are wonderful reads.
It's been too many years since I read this second quartet in the Circle of Magic series. I missed the full cast reading, but it's still so nice to give the words your own full attention. A few gaps in the story have been filled - now on to the next!
Pasco is a reluctant student, believing his powers are first, not real, then second, frivolous and pointless, largely because of his family's expectations.
He basically only functioned here as a way both to get Sandry to that point, and to have powers that could be unique enough to catch the bad guys.
It wasn't necessarily bad, but it was very jarring, as Pierce doesn't have the most natural sounding reading voice.
It's perhaps the darkest of Pierce's books so far (although the end of the Protector of the Small series, and much of the Beka Cooper series, rivals it), but I also love the way it builds on CIRCLE OF MAGIC.
One of the final reveals is easily one of the saddest and most depressing things I've ever read, and yet the book does an excellent job of truly ending on hope.The only thing I missed in this book was having all 4 kids together- their friendship is such a great strength to the first series; I was sad it took a way back seat here.
I adore this series! You can see my series review on the blog.
Just focus less on the star rating and more on the fact that I liked it, because this book didn't get a fair shot to begin with.At first I was a bit disappointed that we were skipping several years.
These kids desperately needed a break after their first year at Winding Circle.Sandry, of course, has "grown up" (she's still pretty young) to be the determined, poised young lady we knew she would be, and she's a great protagonist.
Since I was griping about her not getting much focus in her own book of the first series, it's great that she has such a personal journey in this one.
Once again, Tamora Pierce destroys me emotionally.
PSA: The author narrates this and I love it!Gosh the babies are growing up!
Seeing Sandry take on her own student and help solve crimes with Duke Vedris made her seem so old!!
I absolutely loved seeing Sandry grow into the charming young woman she is.
The only thing I really missed was her friends helping her and being around her.
The "unmagic" is tricky stuff and I loved how it was incorporated into the murder, really shook things up.
Many of the police force looked down on Sandry because she was young and a woman, but boy did she prove them wrong.
review to come :)
This was cute. The Emelan books aren't as compelling to me as Tortall, but I liked the idea of dancing magic a lot. WHOA, though, that ending is WAY more violent than Pierce usually goes with.
In the original Circle of Magic books we saw Sandry as both the most psychologically damaged of the four youths due to her accidental imprisonment in the dark and also as the most compassionate of the four (think of how the children came to adopt the dog, Little Bear).
As becomes the theme in Street Magic as well, Sandry finds herself having to mentor this youth while uncertain of her ability and skill to do so.
Ms. Pierce does a better job with the murder/mystery plot in this book than she does in some of the other Circle of Magic stories.
is one of my favorite nostalgic books of my childhood. I find it so fun and comforting to read.I love this book as an expansion of that. I love seeing Sandry really coming into her own as a full mage and spending more time with her uncle. The new characters are fun and I think it's interesting to see more of how Tamora Pierce separates her two lands. We see police work and mages in this one but it's totally different from how things work in the Beka Cooper series. Anyway I've been having a lot
is one of my favorite nostalgic books of my childhood.
I find it so fun and comforting to read.I love this book as an expansion of that.
I love seeing Sandry really coming into her own as a full mage and spending more time with her uncle.
The new characters are fun and I think it's interesting to see more of how Tamora Pierce separates her two lands.
We see police work and mages in this one but it's totally different from how things work in the Beka Cooper series.
Anyway I've been having a lot of fun re-reading all my favorite Tamora Pierce books.
What I love about Tamora Pierce's books is that she creates different worlds within the greater cosmos/magical structure, based on countries in our world.
Each of the books in this series revolves around one of the characters from her earlier Circle of Magic books finding an ambient mage to train, whilst trying to solve a different murder mystery.
Half murder mystery, half-fantasy, and well integrated between the two.
I will admit that they get a bit repetitive when read back-to-back (thank God by the last book she skipped over most of the teaching the new mage to meditate) but they're still enjoyable and good YA fantasy reads.
This is another example of a book that I wasn't in love with the first go around (although this is still on the scale of my general feelings for anything by Tamora Pierce, so still adored it), but this re-read changed my mind. It was definitely a great transition for the characters growing up and experiencing more complicated issues.
I read/liked the Circle of Magic books when I was a kid but didn't realize this second quartet existed until last year when I found the originals in my closet and re-read them. So this is the first time. Tamora Pierce is a good storyteller and even though there are cliché elements they're usually put together in an interesting way. There's always the clear sense that this is a kid's book (thematically, and also in terms of writing style) but there's nothing patronizing about it.
In the previous quartet, the four mages work and live together. But that's not the case with this new series. This first book was all Sandry. I thought that I wouldn't enjoy them being apart, but it felt right. I think it's necessary for the characters to grow as adults and as mages. I really loved this book and I look forward to the next three.
These keep getting better! I really enjoy Sandry as a character and her development. The new magics that Pierce keeps creating are very interesting!

Would've liked to see more training of Pascao and more struggle between him wanting to dance and his Provost Guard family, but perhaps that'll happen in the next book.It is a rather odd balance between the extreme violence in the book and Sandry and Pascao.
Sandry tips towards the adult side, due to everything that she's seen, the choices she has to make, and the amount of responsibility that she has as an individual, but I still think that it felt like a children's book with YA themes, rather than a YA book.

Gah.Edited: Added detailI just realized that the unmagic is somewhat like depression.
It robs you of the will to do anything and infects every part of your body and life.I'm glad that the children are growing up and learning to pass on what they themselves have learned.
I'm worried about Sandry's Uncle and glad that he might have a new love interest in the beautiful dance Yazmin!
Dancing and unmagic!Pasco wasn't the best student but I could see that he was trying.
She will be a good teacher for lazy impish Pasco.Sandry is growing up.
I'd only read this book when it first came out, before now.
I remembered it being flat and disappointing, and I have to say that I'm still not impressed with it on my re-read.
It's a quick read, but it never hits emotional chords or makes me really care about what's going on.
I love Sandry, but even here she's a toned-down version of the person we saw in the first Circle series.
After the amazing Circle of Magic books, this is a bit of a letdown.
The bit with Sandry's waking nightmares was possibly the only thing that I really loved about this book.
This is the first book in the second quartet about the mages of Winding Circle.
The addition of Pasco, the dancer mage, is interesting, but his storyline seemed to be relegated to the background much of the time.
He came off as more of a problem for Sandry to deal with than an actual character of his own.I'm looking forward to the other books in this series, and to reaching the books that follow it, which will reunite the four mages again.
Whew. Parts of this are ugly. Those are the powerful parts, though. In fact, the plot here is much stronger than the characterization; Pasco is a caricature with a talent, Yazmin is every other funny, talented teacher, and Sandry doesn't change or grow. But both the plot and the idea of unmagic are great propellants: they're ugly and costly and result in painful decisions.I think this is the weakest of the later books, though. It's Sandry on her own, and these books are stronger when the protagonists bounce off other people. Sandry isn't even interacting much with Lark.
I listened to this on audio. I believe the author reads these, at least in part, and I almost had to abandon the story because I couldn't tell if she was a real person or some sort of computer generated voice. It was very distracting. I hate when great story gets bogged down in audio semantics. I'm glad I stuck with it. The story was engaging and exciting.
I generally love Tamara Pierce, but I wasn't thrilled with this one. I haven't read the Circle series, so I missed some background & didn't have an emotional attachment to the main character. If anything, she annoyed me because she did not seem like a 14 year old. Maybe 18, but not 14.
I think I like this more than the first time, but it's not quite a 4-star book. Sandry is now 14 and has to start training a younger magician, who's been dismissed and bullied by his large family, and who has lost his ability to focus and his ambition.
THIS BOOK SCARED THE CRAP OUT OF ME!!!
Literally burst into tears on the last page this time around soooooooo... yep. This book is a lot.
I really like the Circle of Magic books. Kid safe, if they are old enough for serious bad guys and a little blood and guts.
