https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23461426-how-to-write-a-thesis
"To tell you the truth, it's a bit intimidating," he said.More than anything else, that makes me distrust my own judgement: I read this because I'm thinking of putting together some long-form non-fiction in the near-ish future, and I wanted to find out how the big kids organise their bibliographies.
I feel like he loves that feeling of going down the academic rabbit hole, mucking about and having opinions - and he approves of anyone else who wants to do it too.
Things made redundant by the internet, like "be sure you are close to many libraries so you can find many books"; things made redundant by computers, like "index cards make it so you can put your sources in alphabetical order as you go"; and things made redundant by like MLA and every other citation style like "here is my singular way of citing sources." He tries to justify it.
I prefer paper libraries.
And even I can't think of a single reason why the fuck I would tote a box of a thousand index cards around with me.
Reading  How to Write a Thesis by  Umberto Eco, even an ‘updated’ version in this MIT Press edition, felt like a sweet exercise in futility.
It endures, even in a world of Dropbox and Evernote and Endnote and online style guides and, of course, the oracle of information—the internet.The reason for this is that Eco’s book actually has a lot more to say to people outside of academia, to those no longer writing long tracts of academic esoterica or using words like ‘juxtaposition,’ ‘asymmetricality,’ or ‘reconfigurations’ in everyday writing.
Additional tip: Instead of spending valuable time reading a book on how to write your thesis, actually write it.
https://labibliotecadellalettricesoli...Sto per dire una cosa che stupirà solo chi non conosce Eco. Questo libro fa morire dal ridere.
Non solo il suo libro è utile dal punto di vista tecnico, ma vi strapperà una grandissima risata.
Cosa che, in ogni caso, non penso debba insegnarci nessuno, visto che come nuove generazioni possiamo solo insegnare in merito :DIn ogni caso, leggere che Eco - e altri studiosi con lui - andava a procacciarsi i testi per la tesi in giro per le biblioteche d'Europa m'ha fatta emozionare.
Sau hai tháng quằn quại, cuối cùng cũng đọc xong quyển này.Tôi sẽ cho quyển này 1 sao vì bản dịch quá sức cẩu thả, y như quăng bản tiếng Ý vào Google Translate và ngồi sửa lại để khi đọc có vẻ trơn tru theo kiểu word-by-word.
Nhưng với một nguồn động viên an ủi lớn lao cùng văn phong đỏm dáng từ lão già mà tôi cực kỳ yêu thích này, tôi sẽ cho quyển này 3 sao.
Dù sao thì nó cũng vực tôi dậy để tìm lại cảm hứng cho cơ hội nghiên cứu đầu tiên của mình.Nói tóm lại, trung bình thì quyển này 2 sao.
3.75Se la parte inerente alla bibliografia è un po’ noiosa, le spiegazioni su come stendere una tesi sono molto utili e, spesso, consigliano rimedi semplici a problemi apparentemente insormontabili. Un testo un po’ datato (parla di macchina da scrivere e microfilm), ma ancora attuale per quanto riguarda la stesura.
Efectivamente encontré muchos consejos de este tipo, pero su efecto balsámico fue complementario y más bien estuvo supeditado a lo que considero que es el mensaje central de este libro: el resultado final es importante, pero el proceso de investigación y escritura de la tesis es lo fundamental y lo que nos enriquecerá y fortalecerá como investigadores.Independientemente de cuál sea el tema que uno escoja para hacer la tesis (claro, esto tiene límites como bien lo señala Eco), el hecho de dedicarle toda nuestra capacidad intelectual, nuestra imaginación y nuestro esfuerzo a un tema determinado, de llegar a dominar y quizás superar en algo una determinada porción del conocimiento existente es lo valioso.
There are some pieces of advice that, for me, are particularly worth committing to memory (‘Write everything that comes into your head, but only in the first draft’, for example, and ‘Do not play the solitary genius’) as I embark on writing the first of my two final year dissertations.
For one, I didn’t find his advice re: index cards to be so outdated as to be useless: the information to be contained in them is still pertinent, perhaps even more so, and if you’re like me and enjoy forays into the analog, then it’s a perfect exercise in slowing down and thinking things through.
Si más o menos leen mis reseñas de vez en cuando, sabrán que me tengo prometido a mi mismo no leer libros viejos salvo que sean hiper-clásicos.
El libro es de 1977, aunque tiene nuevas ediciones.
Las principales preocupaciones del libro son: la construcción de un buen fichero de libros (?) algo que no tiene sentido con goodreads, EndNote o programas por el estilo, y como evitar los problemas referentes a la versión mecanografiada (?).
Es un libro de la segunda ola: vino el shock del futuro y lo destruyó.
Tiene dos o tres consejos prácticos, no vale la pena leer 250 páginas a por ellos.
Posted on my book blog.I'm currently enrolled in a Master's program and about to start working on my thesis in Museum Studies.
This one by Umberto Eco seems to be regarded as the authority in the matter.It was a nice read (even if the author can seem rather unorthodox at times) and overall quite useful.
I read an older edition so the research chapters are painfully dated (no internet back in those days), but I don't mind because it's helpful to know what to do in those cases when the library you want to use doesn't have a completely digitalized catalog.Overall, useful, specially if you're, like me, just starting out.
Interest only for students or "doctorants". Why edit again a book destinated only for university people. Not bad, but far from other Eco's opus. Is it only for the money?
Das Buch bietet einen interessanten Einblick in das wissenschaftliche Arbeiten in den 1970er- und 1980er-Jahren in Italien. Es schlägt jedoch auch einige interessante Strategien für das Schreiben einer wissenschaftlichen Arbeit vor, die heute noch anwendbar sind. Auf mich wirkte Ecos Buch inspirierend: Um eine lange Abschlussarbeit schreiben zu können, muss man sich in einen gewissen Modus versetzen können. Mit diesem Buch fällt mir dieser Einstieg leichter.
*I received a free ARC of How to Write a Thesis from MIT Press via Netgalley in exchange of an honest review*ARC received on November 10th 2014.When I saw that this has been translated to English, I requested it straight away. As a grad student, I'll take all the help I can get in writing a thesis that will make sense and help me get my MA.
Teilweise sehr langatmig..aber gute Strategien und Formulieren als Vorschläge :)
Mutlaka okunmalı. Hem öğrenciye hem akademisyene çok faydalı bilgiler veriyor, yol gösteriyor. Özellikle tez ve araştırmanın esasına yönelik olarak. Fakat kitabın çevirisinde (Çev. Betül Parlak) can sıkıcı ve okurken size çelme takan durumlar çok. Özne-yüklem ve zaman uyumsuzlukları, başı-sonu kopuk upuzun tümceler gibi.
An interesting glance at research before modern computers where normal commodities. Hardly applicable to today's research process, and not particularly relevant to scientific domains.
Eco himself barely mentions the sociological specifics of 1970s Italian higher education, this context is sketched out by Francesco Espamer's foreward, though he is careful to consider and provide advice for working around the limitations students might face when preparing a thesis.
Eco also gives exceedingly detailed instructions on how to compile and write a bibliography, how to cite, how to determine if a quotation should be inline or indented, the difference between paraphrasing and plagarism, and other specifics of paper-writing that can strike the well-educated as obvious, and not what they want to learn from the Great Eco. The translators of the English volume have worked hard (it seems- I've never seen the Italian or any other version) to make the bibliographic style examples relevant to contemporary English-language thesis writers.
The latter is reflected in How to write a thesis.
For a good part of the tips, academic rules, I was aware of their existence.
Nevertheless, for the rest, I had Umberto Eco introducing them to me.
Throughout the reading of this book, I became aware of two facts: 1.
that we are lucky with modern editing programs such as Word, inasmuch as other programs; and, secondly, that during Eco's time, back in the 70's, writing a thesis was miscellaneous.
Otherwise, this is the only critique that I can bring to this book, along with Eco's elitist principles apropos education and academia.
Es un buen libro si no se tiene una idea clara de lo que implica hacer una tesis y si no se está familiarizado con el ámbito universitario/académico.
No es un libro para leerse de principio a fin sino más bien para resolver alguna duda específica con respecto algún aspecto específico de la elaboración de una tesis.
Esta obra me recuerda El Taller De La Filosofía: Una Introducción A La Escritura Filosóficade Nubiola, libro que recomiendo altamente tanto para aquellos que se inician en el quehacer filosófico como para aquellos que ya van a empezar o están haciendo una tesis.

I punti di forza di questo "agile volumetto" (cit.) sono sicuramente il fornire un metodo di lavoro serio e una struttura che, se seguita, non fa perdere tempo allo studente sotto tesi.
Ottima la parte della citazione bibliografica e le note a piè di pagina.
Allora perché solo 3 stelle?
Perché il volume è datato.
Considerando che tutti o quasi hanno un pc e una connessione a Internet, non aver pensato a un'edizione riveduta e corretta è quanto meno fastidioso (nessuno scrive più le tesi con la macchina da scrivere!!).
[Ma la frase "Non siete Proust" merita una standing ovation :P]
A pesar de su edad, el texto se conserva fresco y, lo que es más importante, aún resulta útil. Lo peor: a pesar de sus nueve reimpresiones, aun no se ha dignado la editorial a corregir los errores ortográficos y ortotipográficos. No cuesta tanto y lo merece
Daddy Umberto's guide to writing a thesis on a typewriter in the italian university in the 70's without the internet. Plenty of hot tips on how to use index cards
There is a lot of technical advice about how to actually structure a written document (he uses a university thesis as the illustrative example, but I could see it being useful for many other purposes).One of the the more practical takeaways for me was to start maintaining a file of index cards that contain bibliographic and directly quotable text as well as personal observations from books I read as a ways to look back and refer later.
But Umberto Eco, being the established author that he was, manages to write in a way that is pretty fun to read.I must also add that the MIT Press has done a really good job of printing the paperback version of this book.
Uma leitura muito satisfatória mas, ao mesmo tempo, extremamente enfadonha.
Isso porque, apesar da minha 26ª edição, de 2016, ser "revista e atualizada", ainda me sinto lendo um livro do século passado.
O último capítulo talvez seja o mais frustrante, tinha tudo pra ser genial, mas o autor escreve para um leitor que escreverá uma tese datilografada (o que tenho convicção que não vai acontecer em 2016, ano da edição).
De todo modo, ainda sendo tão "outdated", é um bom livro e, tirando isso, uma leitura agradável que vale pena.
Κανείς δεν μπορεί να αμφισβητήσει το συγγραφικό ταλέντο και την αριστουργηματική πένα του Eco, ιδιαιτέρως εγώ.
Ωστόσο ο σκοπός που επέλεξα τον συγκεκριμένο βιβλίο ίσως δεν ταίριαζε με τον σκοπό της συγγραφής του.
Η προσπάθεια μου να εντρυφήσω στη μεθοδολογία της επιστημονικής έρευνας σίγουρα δε βοηθήθηκε ιδιαίτερα από την ανάγνωση του βιβλίου, αντιθέτως καθυστέρησε και ως αναγνώστρια με μπέρδεψε.
Σίγουρα δεν έχει να κάνει με την πένα ούτε με τη λογοτεχνική αξία του βιβλίου.
Όμως στη δική μου επιστημονική προσπάθεια δεν προσέφερε κάτι, σε αντίθεση με τον αναγνωστικό μου χρόνο ο οποίος γέμισε με ένα εξαιρετικό λογοτεχνικό κείμενο.
Käytännönläheinen, hyvin perusteltu ja havainnollisin esimerkein varusteltu kirja tutkielman kirjoittamisesta, joka on iästään huolimatta edelleen täynnä relevantteja huomioita. Pidin etenkin aiheen valintaa ja rajausta käsittelevistä luvuista sekä siitä, että syyt kirjallisuusviitteiden merkitsemisen viilaamiseen oli kunnolla selitetty. Econ tyyli on hieman snobistinen, mistä en hänen esseitään lukiessani ole pitänyt, mutta tähän teokseen ote tuntui sopivalta, ja minulle tuli sellainen olo että Eco oikeasti haluaa teoksellaan opiskelijoita auttaa. Huumoriakin oli mukana sopivasti.
mal witzig, mal ernst + schöne Beispiele. lest es, ehe ihr schreibt! (sagt j-d, der noch nicht begonnen).einiges ist alt wie der Wald und auch viel zu italiano, ich würde dem Buch doch meine Sympathie zukommen lassen.
Really useful if you're writing a thesis or dissertation, even if some of the advice is dated; (this book both made me really miss card catalogs while also reminding me of the misery of attempting to edit on a typewriter).
