https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/311137.Pistols_For_Two
There is a shiny new collection of Georgette Heyer's short stories   Isn't that a gorgeous cover? But when I requested a review copy from Random House's NZ branch, the reply came back with unflattering speed (would barely have hit their in tray) that there were no review copies available for this book.In a way, this is appropriate as Georgette Heyer hated the whole publicity machine. She did one interview in her whole life and ignored letters from her fans.So I'm stuck with my Arrow with its Geo
This was an engaging tale but character development & motivation were sacrificed to brevity.This short story was originally published as part of war time fundraiser, but I am just about certain that I read a similar tale in Heyer's short story collection Pistols For Two by Georgette HeyerEnjoyable but forgettable.
I would now say when you read the original Pistols for Two collection there are some fine examples of Georgette Heyer short stories - but this wasn't one of them.
This was the best book of short stories. Georgette Heyer has the best way of pulling you in right from the beginning and letting you unwrap the characters one at a time. Then you are allowed to see them as their story unfolds in a clear and usually funny well scripted manner. This book was no different. It was a joy to read from the first page. I want more Georgette Heyer! She was just brilliant!There are real people captured in her words and they are so full of life and witty. What a joy to read!
She's really only got like eight characters, and only two kinds of romantic heroes (the scandalous rake, usually lots older than the heroine, and the rarer dandy), and her stories all seem to follow the same beats, so if I go straight from one Heyer romance to another, it's impossible to ignore the creative recycling, which I can only bear if I can ignore it.
Very Short Stories from Georgette HeyerThese stories were very short.They didn't make enough of an impression on me to be memorable or for me to wish to reread them as I do some of her novels that are my favorites.March 2017 Georgette Heyer group BOTM
(3 stars)"Pink Domino" - Giles is trying to prevent his sister from making a disadvantageous marriage while on a mission to find the girl who stole his heart.
(2 stars)"The Duel" - on the eve of his duel, Lord Rotherfield finds his adversary's sister in his house, trying to prevent desaster.
(3 stars)"Full Moon" - on his way to visit family friends, Lord Stavely meets a young man who is determined to elope with the fiance Lord Stavely was unaware he had.
A must read for any Georgette Heyer fan.
3.5 stars.Heyer has a small pot from which she collects her characters.
In "The Duel," a young lady is attempting to appeal to the man who is to duel with her brother when she inadvertently ends up in the home of a handsome stranger--but that's not all!
Half the fun I had was trying to pick the hero and heroine out of the line-ups of characters (not difficult), and then attempting to figure out the twists (more difficult)--and then seeing if I was right.
Favorites of the lot: "The Duel", "A Husband for Fanny"; "Pink Domino", "To Have the Honour", "Hazard"
Disclaimer: Anyone but HER and this book would probably garner 3 stars.
A collection of short stories by Georgette Heyer.I found the titular story miserably boring.
Once I passed it, the stories weren't so bad.
Elopements, Gretna Green, and Heyer heroes pepper the stories and eventually blur them together.
If you like Heyer, this is a pleasant stroll.
The same personalities emerge - not just from her other books - but from the other stories within the volume.
I also felt a little concerned for how many of them met the Heyer hero and then were talking engagement!
I really enjoyed reading this short story collection with the GR Heyer fans group; I've read many of her books but hadn't gotten to this one yet.
And plenty of Heyer's sparkling, witty dialogue, tried-and-true plot lines, and dashing, handsome, too-bored-to-live aristocratic gentlemen - until they encounter these sweet, warm, beautiful and funny young ladies, and then it's instant true love!
A delightful collection of romantic and funny stories, ideal for reading all at once or one or two at a time to cleanse your reading palate while working on heavier books (literally and figuratively).
Whenever I need a Georgette Heyer fixs but don't have time for a full novel, I grab this delightful collection of short stories.
Of course GH is at her best when there is time to develop her characters and all the wonderful side plots, so a short story will never show her at her best.
But it is fun to see her toying with ideas and characters she has either abandoned in earlier books or want to explore before reusing in later books.
It is amazing how many plans for Gretna Green there can be in one book.
Favourites (as I'm rereading 1st Nov 2015):The Duel ~ loved it. I do find it funny how the girl implores a stranger to convince a man not to kill her brother in a duel! The best part is when the man gets hit!Hazard ~ oh yes! haha humourous and adorable, a guy waking up hungover devilishly aware when he realises where he is that he's eloping when already engaged!
Yes, two Georgette Heyers in a few days. What can I say? It was a stressful week. Such a lovely way to relax.
Great collection! :) Very funny.
I think maybe a 4 1/2 All the stories are fun frolics but some are better than others.
The best were A Clandestine Affair, Bath Miss, To Have the Honor, Hazard and Full Moon.
Hazard was very good and Full Moon has become a Favorite of mine.
And unlike most Georgette Heyer books there is no talk of mistresses.
If you have a problem with mentioning/talking about gambling you wouldn't like Hazard.
Amazingly, even in the stories I didn't care for the characters were well put together.
If you have never read Georgette Heyer's books before I wouldn't start with this.
Great Heyer in short stories. There are essential elements of her books in here. Ideal when you look for a short entertained. Elopements, duels, misunderstandings, quarrels and all end (of course) with a happy ending. Although you must be prepared you will not find here witty descriptions of people and so on. I wish there are more such short stories written by Heyer.
I always forget that this is a book of short stories, and so I think as I start chapter 2, wow! what a lot of unrelated characters... But I enjoy them immensely, because they are so varied and fun and even unexpected. "Night at the Inn" is almost Sweeney Toddish -- not bad for a Regency Romance.
Nice light reading, though not as engaging as her novels.
Heads Up-These are short stories. Lately I am really enjoying short stories. Especially, those written by Ms. Heyer. She is a master at developing her characters. After a few pages you have a sense of who they really are. At the fast 'happily ever after' you are cheering for the hero/heroine and sometimes the jilted fiance/friend. Recommend
Hazard, Full moon, A husband for Fanny, Bath miss and Snowdrift are my favourites.
Then her new fiance offers to act as one’s second.A clandestine affair a maiden aunt trying to do the best to get a good match for her ward, finds out the guardian of her niece’s chosen young man is none other than Lord Iver with whom she broke off her own engagement many years ago.
A young woman rushes out late at night and alone, to try and find the home of the Lord her brother has accused of cheating at dice; he challenged him to a duel, of course.
The characters were all likeable, and, as expected from GH, her heroes are the word in fashion: the best cravat, the shiniest Hessian boots; an agreeable Corinthian, a true Nonpareil.This book was a real gem, because I did not know GH also wrote short stories (just eleven).
One of my two least favorite, and the reason is that it turns a bit awkward that the suitor the mother is thinking is the best for her daughter ends marrying her instead.
Full moon: a Lord meets Tom, a young man, in an Inn, who tells him his cousin Annabella is trying to elope with him, to avoid a marriage with an old man, who turns out to be the Lord himself.
oh well, it was still awesome.THE DUEL4 starsvery formulaic and rather silly (girl goes to brother's dueller to plead for mercy) , but in small (short?) doses, it's not so bad :DHAZARD3 stars a better (and worse) take on Bath Miss (last minute something so that H and h end up together, cutting out H's fiancee)didn't like the "betting my sister as stakes" formula didn't like the fact that H offered for ow the same day; he's supposedly in love with h!SNOWDRIFT5 starsh and her cousin are racing to their grandfather, who might leave either one of them money.
When I discovered this was a book of short stories instead of a novel, I was prepared to be disappointed, but there was no disappointment here.
The stories were well-crafted and contained all of the elements of a good short story.
Many of them contained some of the motifs found in Ms. Heyer's other novels.
Just as a sketch of a small part of a Da Vinci painting can be extremely valuable at auction, these short tales showed their value as literature.
Of course, most of the author's works are considered romance, but the title story and one or two others are chiefly other types of tales.
3* to 4* depending on the story.This is a great little book to dip into when you have a few minutes and you want something light and fun. It's very light-weight, but the stories still have the charm so common in Heyer's writing. I have the Kindle version, and it was especially fun to take with me when I knew I had to sit and wait for a few minutes here or there while running errands or carpooling kids.
These are entertaining and readable, on the whole, but probably only for the Heyer completist. She's done most of this to better effect in her novels, where there's far more scope for situation and character development. That said, I did like "A Clandestine Affair", because the history between the two main characters made their relationship feel more real. I also liked "Night at the Inn", for its unusually suspenseful plot with genuinely tense and creepy bits.
A good short story should be complete even if short. These stories ended somewhat abruptly in every case and seemed somewhat sketchy along the way, so my conclusion is that the short story medium is not Ms. Heyer's forte. They were all still fun to read and are great to pick up when you just have a few minutes and don't want to become too immersed in a story to get on with other things you have planned.
A collection of short Regency romances by Georgette Heyer. The stories are very predictable - as soon as the characters are introduced, the reader can guess who is going to end up with whom. But they're also cozy, well written with lovely use of period-appropriate language and descriptions. Although none of the stories were particularly memorable, they were a pleasant way to spend a few lazy hours.
This was cute! There were a few I would have liked expanded into full length (A Clandestine Affair, A Husband for Fanny), but on the whole, I see why they were all (very) short stories. It was fun to read a new Heyer since I haven't done that in forever, as a result of the glom. She makes me happy.
http://alexaadams.blogspot.com/2010/08/pistols-for-two-by-georgette-heyer.html
All sorts of Heyer plots are to be found here and many of them echo her longer length novels. A couple examples: The Corinthian, Bath Tangle, and Devil's Cub.
