https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/909932.Ordeal_by_Innocence
Amnesiacs, mistaken identities, and in this mystery by Agatha Christie, a man with a concussion fails to provide an alibi, and shortly after recovering, heads off to Antarctica for a research expedition.
Unfortunately, the facts of the case have failed to impress Dr. Calgary, and not even the warning from Jack's sister makes it clear: "it's not the guilty who matter.
She ends up being quite a sympathetic character so it bothered me less than it could have.At any rate, four stars for Christie's delicious period piece and managing to surprise me with a couple different twists.Cross posted at http://clsiewert.wordpress.com/2013/0...
“That was the trouble with people who had no legal sense of discretion. They insisted on saying things which were much better not said.”Every time Christie makes her stories revolve around a big and extraordinarily dysfunctional family, I invariably find myself utterly spellbound. The same happened with Appointment With Death; but the mystery in the latter was certainly more satisfying, as I see it. I would have liked -and expected- a more imaginative solution, I think.In brief, not one of Christie's best, but, in its own and unique way, interesting nonetheless.
EXCERPT: Calgary came to the end of the nice new road with the nice new houses on either side of it, each with its eighth of an acre of garden; rock plants, chrysanthemums, roses, salvias, geraniums, each owner displaying his or her individual garden taste.At the end of the road was a gate with SUNNY POINT in Gothic letters on it.
They divorced in 1928, two years after Christie discovered her husband was having an affair.Her first novel, The Mysterious Affair at Styles, came out in 1920.
However, it turns out that for once, Jacko had been telling the truth: Dr. Arthur Calgary who had given him a lift and later ran into a road accident resulting in a temporary loss of memory, arrives at the Argyll household to absolve him.
With a believable and convenient suspect absolved, it means that the real murderer is still at large......Therefore begins the ordeal - the ordeal of those who are innocent.------------------------------------This is a very tightly written story and entirely believable - again, one where excessive use of coincidence (a failure of Christie) is avoided.
Tenía la idea de que ya le había cogido el punto y había ido viendo donde ponía las pistas.
Como siempre me he vuelto a quedar impactado con el final y no tenía nada que ver con lo que yo creía.
Y lo fuerte es que siempre deja pistas.
No se las saca de la manga al final.
Esta mujer es increíble.En cuanto a la novela, nos encontramos una nueva historia sin Poirot o Miss Marple en la que el investigación por el asesinato de un mujer, será reabierta cuando se descubra que su hijo, declarado culpable, no fue su asesino.
Como siempre mucho misterio, muchos sospechosos y un final inesperado.
Agatha siempre será la reina indiscutible.
This could be anything from discussing morality and justice (as she does in Orient Express and And Then There Were None) to superstitions (as she does in Endless Night).She's not always successful with this in the sense that she makes a valid argument or finds common ground with the sensibilities of her readers - tho, maybe she was more successful with the latter in her own time - but she does pick up topics for discussion that have nothing to do with the murder plot itself.In Ordeal by Innocence, Christie dedicates her "side discussion" to the topic of adoption.‘All tragic histories in a way,’ said Philip.
رائعة أجاثا كريستي دليل البراءة يظهر بعد عامين وبعد موت المتهم في السجن والذي اتهم بقتل أمه وصف رائع للنفس البشرية بعد ان كانو يعيشون في أمان مزيفعلى العائلة ان تواجه محنتها من جديداستمتعت بها
Choose Your Own Adventure!Did you kill the Argyle matriarch?
‘Tis true, she was an awful sort.
A control freak: dramatically highly-strung and passionately venomous, her grasping hands ever eager to twist and to bind, to bind you and others to her.
She is played by Faye Dunaway in tiny flashback sequences and that is certainly apropos casting.
Mama Argyle was ever so unfair to you.
She never let you do what you wanted, it was always her, Her, HER!
She deserved to die, damn it!
The world is a better place without her!
The world should congratulate you!
Ο θετός της γιος Τζακ συνελήφθη αφού έγινε γνωστό ότι της ζήτησε χρήματα που δεν του έδωσε και στη συνέχεια την απείλησε.
Τα χρήματα που της είχε πάρει βρέθηκαν επάνω του και κανείς δεν ξαφνιάστηκε μια και ο νεαρός Τζακ ήταν, κατά κοινή ομολογία, "κακός σπόρος".
Όλα όμως ανατρέπονται όταν δύο χρόνια μετά τη δολοφονία και αφού ο Τζακ έχει πεθάνει εμφανίζεται ένα ακλόνητο άλλοθι για τον συλληφθέντα.
Η οικογένεια βυθίζεται στην καχυποψία και την δυστυχια, μια και κανεις δεν μπορεί να είναι απόλυτα σίγουρος για τον άλλον.
Μυστήριο, αγωνία, λεπτή ψυχογραφία και συνεχείς εικασίες που ανατρέπονται.
A classic Christie tale which explores the central theme - "If you love someone dearly, how far would you go to protect them". Instead of Poirot or Marple, we have a bespectacled geophysicist investigating a crime to which he was an alibi to the hanged murderer, in a family which is dysfunctional at its core and only a thin veneer of sanity covering it up. As you read, our protagonist peels those layers to reveal the true murderer and the hidden crime of many years ago. My Rating - 3.5/5
يمهل و لا يهملهذة الكلمات هى أفضل ما يمكننى وصف هذة الروايةبعد مرور عامين من القبض على متهم بتهمة قتل والدته تظهر أدله تثبت غيابه عن مسرح الجريمة. يتم فتح التحقيق من جديد ليتم اكتشاف أسرار جديدة لكل مذنب جزاء و لكل برىء مكافئةو من يقدر على منافسة أجاثا كريستى, تلك الكاتبة العبقريةفى تحليل الدوافع البشرية
أربع نجمات للمسلسل، ثلاث للرواية
Is it too much of a stretch for him to realize that now they'll turn their thoughts to who actually did it?
It needs to be spelled out at least three times before it takes root in head, which brings me to point #2.2.
Several times we're told that the children (adopted all) were given everything they wanted, and they still turned out to be ungrateful, unloving and downright criminal.
4. Several times she says - women are ruthless.
Add to that the lack of a solid detective, and you've got Ordeal by Innocence.
”’It’s not the guilty who matter. It’s the innocent.’” 4.5 out of 5 starsI’m beginning to think that I prefer Christie’s standalone titles over her more famous Poirot novels. While I’ve mildly enjoyed those, I adored And Then There Were None. And the completion of this novel confirms my suspicions, because this book was fantastic.Dr. Arthur Calgery, having just come back from a years long expedition to Antarctica, finds himself in a dire situation. Before he left, he offered a lift to a hitchhi
And as the days and weeks pass, Calgery soon realizes that some memories are best kept forgotten after all, with long buried resentments and secrets coming to the surface that should never have been dug up in the first place...This isn’t so much a murder mystery as it is an examination of the psychology of innocence.
Calgery, the voice of reason in the novel, said it best; no matter how awful he was perpetuated to be, someone should care about him and whether his name should be cleared.
It’s the sad, sad tale of a man who loved his wife dearly, but who seemed to ignore him for her adopted children.
Come on!) – nor the actors’ faces that were emblazoned on the cover of the new paperback edition I bought.The ‘original’ story is set in a notional Devon (the author’s home county), and the topography more plausible.Ordeal By Innocence certainly begins with a clever premise – a wife-and-mother is murdered; one of her adopted sons is found guilty and dies in prison.
In their stead, the responsibility shifts haphazardly from the police, to the ‘whistleblower’, to one of the suspects (the latter seeming to show the greatest insight).Secondly, that the crime is historic and remains the prime focus provides little room for manoeuvre.
This is my first three stars rating for an Agatha Christie book (and I can't believe it)I liked this one, but it was kinda disappointing, the events were a bit dull, I could figure out half of what happened pretty easily, but the second half in the end was great.
Agatha Christie claimed that, of all her many novels, Ordeal by Innocence and Crooked House pleased her best.
Crooked House is one of my absolute favorites, but I had rather forgotten how very good Ordeal by Innocence is.
How can our likeable amateur, Dr. Arthur Calgary, solve the murder from two years prior?Ordeal by Innocence also touches on some new themes, especially with the sad case of the victim--a woman with a strong maternal urge who adopted many children but was only loved in return by one of them.
What it means to love, and to be good parents, are serious themes Christie explores here.
An entertaining mystery and one in which I didn’t entirely predict ‘whodunit’ but also didn’t care all too much about who did it either. The characters were okay but all felt very similar and somewhat flat. However, it was an entertaining read, just not as gritty or addictive as I was hoping it would be, having read and loved another of Agatha Christie’s titles a few months previous to this. TW: discussion of suicide, ableism, sexism
Absolutely loved a few.Then I saw this one featured in a giveaway, hadn't read it but didn't win it, went to the library, got it, and...It's the story of a man who can provide an alibi for another man convicted of murder.
However there is the major plot hole...(view spoiler)[When the accused, named Jacko, is arrested, tried, convicted for the murder of his (adoptive) Mom, he clearly KNOWS who the REAL KILLER IS.
He's never had a problem using people, including his family, so since he KNOWS who the killer is, which is made plain at the end of the book, why didn't he speak out against him or her?
In many Agatha Christie stories there is a crime & a large number of suspects.
He then dies of pneumonia & (if that wasn't enough) someone comes along to prove he was actually innocent.Unfortunately far too much of the novel is taken up with characters discussing who the real murderer might be & this soon becomes so repetitive that I no longer cared who committed the crime.I think the story would work better as a play, rather than a novel.
Hopefully the new BBC TV version will breathe some life into this old story.
On one hand, it had all the elements I love in a murder mystery - murder within the family, a large number of suspects, family drama, and some humour.
But Ordeal by Innocence also bashes you on the head with Christie's private views about adoption and heredity, which are basically utter nonsense.
So she chooses to adopt children.
But according to everyone else in the book, she could never be a proper mother since the children were not really hers, even though she did everything possible for them that a mother would.
I loved the setting and the mystery itself, but I didn't like the premise of the book.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
Unfortunately by the time he delivers the news, the son of the family has died in prison after being accused of the murder of his adopted mother.
Dr. Calgary swears that he can provide an alibi for the son Jacko for the time of the murder and is somewhat mystified when no one in the family seems very happy to hear the news.
You would think that the largely poor and abandoned children would feel only happiness at being adopted into a wealthy loving family but this is not the case for all of them.
Classism time in classism town.
More precisely, "adoption is unnatural, adoptive children and parents never truly and properly bond the way biological children and parents do, and all good women desperately long to have their own babies" time in [ibid.:] town.
Also a lovely running theme about how the one daughter who's half-black and half-white, to whom everyone refers as "half-caste," is all inscrutable and cat-like as has no sense of time because she's half-black.
With Aggie, it's all nature, I guess, except when it's convenient to blame things on a terrible woman who had to adopt children and because she didn't fulfill her biological urges she over-mothered them and smothered them and ruined them.
3.5 starsA classic murder mystery. This is a standalone mystery and I would have preferred a bit of Hercule or Miss Marple but the characters in this are still very strong and made for a good story.Settle in and enjoy!
I get that for many people the draw in a Christie novel is Poirot getting his little grey cells all stirred up or waxing his moustaches, or Miss Marple innocently knitting away while taking stock and careful observation of everything and everyone while the cops tend to flounder, but really, the non-detective novels can be just as good in my opinion.
There's more, of course, especially in trying to fathom the murder victim's (Rachel's) personality, which is an excellent psychological study unto itself.Yes, the Poirot and Marple books might be more of a joy to read, but I found myself enjoying this book once again after having read it some years back.
Ordeal by Innocence is much more on the psychological/human nature side of things and it works very well.
So many interesting characters in this book, but my personal favourites are Hester & Philip. Philip's death broke my heart, but at least we got a happy ending, i find Dr Arthur Calgary actually perfect for Hester. Definitely one of my favourite books, i would enjoy it even more, only if i didn't spoiled it to myself by watching a movie adaptation..
So dull.
After watching a recent tv adaptation a few months ago with a bizarre ending I decided to read the book. WTF the tv adaptation was awful. After reading the book where there is a completely different murderer which made sense. Dr. Calgary also is completely different as a character and in my view better. Mary and Philip work better in the book as do the other characters Mickey, Tina, Hester and the wicked Jacko. The best thing about the tv adaptation was the house and background location. In terms of Christie novels I enjoyed it.
I started reading Agatha in my 20's and restarting my love of reading later in life with Agatha to my reading list because I am usually always surprised and it is fun to see how she plays it all out. Even though I have read a lot of her books early in life, this one was new to me and I enjoyed this mystery to the very end. I ❤ the beta feature because my private notes I put my thoughts down as I read the story and see how far off I am.
I started reading Agatha in my 20's and restarting my love of reading later in life with Agatha to my reading list because I am usually always surprised and it is fun to see how she plays it all out. Even though I have read a lot of her books early in life, this one was new to me and I enjoyed this mystery to the very end. I ❤️ the beta feature because my private notes I put my thoughts down as I read the story and see how far off I am.
