https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22571552-so-you-ve-been-publicly-shamed
In fact, Ronson goes wandering down a number of paths that don't seem that relevant to the main topic - such as that whole section with the shame-eradication group - and yet it is still quite fun to go on the journey with him.
I guess, in the end, there is just something so morbidly fascinating about public-shaming and embarrassment.The resurgence of public-shaming on social media really interests me.
Ronson goes to meet a variety of people who have been publicly-shamed in a number of different ways.
There's a very good reason we no longer see value in publicly humiliating criminals, and Ronson looks into that here.
Do you remember that story about the woman flying to Africa--the one who tweeted a joke about how she was white and so wouldn't get AIDS there--the one who, after waking from her nap on the plane, found her joke had outraged the entire internet, that her job was lost and that her life was destroyed?Ronson uses this case, and others like it, to investigate the process of public shaming in our high tech age.
(In this book people are getting fired for perceived-to-be offensive tweets right and left.) Jon Ronson puts his finger on the reason for the vast avalanche of insult which poured down on Justine Sacco in the last weeks of December 2013:Dragging down Justine Sacco felt like dragging down every rich white person who’s ever gotten away with making a racist joke because they could.
In the end, says Jon, this has been a book about people who didn’t do very much wrong and got vengeance and anger rained down on them.
I love it when I hear about a book, automatically have to go out and get it, and then can't put it down.
You're thrown into something brand new and days later emerge, drawing breath, crawling out of your book cave, victorious.This book examined, ultimately to me, compassion online.
I very much think of the internet as a wild west.
It's so new, it's constantly evolving, and there aren't any real agreed upon rules and regulations.
This book starts on that path, on that conversation, of "what kind of place do we want the internet to be, and how do we make it that?"
Many thanks to Emma for spotlighting this book.A joke that went too farA few years ago, en route from New York to South Africa, a woman sent a series of tweets (excerpts are from the book, emphasis by me):"Weird German dude, you're in first class, it's 2014 get some deodorant- inner monolog as I inhale BO.
Admittedly her jokes were in poor taste-reprehensible even- but in the court of public opinion via FB and Twitter, her penance, as far I could surmise from the book, is that she live with the shame.
A book that's incredibly relevant and that I would recommend! All the information and examples provided were very interesting.I can say that, as a youtuber, it's definitely a fear of mine. Saying something, which will be misinterpreted and being "publicly shamed" for it. It sounds extreme but some minor occurrence happens on a daily basis!
I can't think of any other explanation for his excusing her 100%.She can't get employment, same as Lehrer.
He has a lot to answer for.This public shaming and these overreactions all seem to be American.
They like the idea of ruining other people's lives and it is that that keeps the victims from employment.
There is something really wrong with society when this is the result.I think Ronson has made a lot of money out of this book, and brought their shaming back into the public eye again.
Read for Popsugar's 2018 Reading Challenge #43: A book being read by a stranger in a public placeThis book was utterly fantastic! I could have blown through it in a day (easily) but I’m really glad I took my time with it.
In short, it is everything I need to have a good time while also feeling very pretentious and smart and patting myself on the back for eight consecutive weeks for reading anything with more literary merit than a young adult contemporary romance.THE STANDARDS ARE LOW AND THAT'S JUST THE WAY I LIKE THEM.So this book is about the recent (?
But I read this book shortly before Charlottesville, and it’s hard to look at the hardworking people of Twitter outing literal Nazis and be like, Hey. Bad.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ Most of you are probably already familiar with the concept of public shaming. Heck, we see it on Goodreads all the time. The author who chooses to get spammy or games the ratings system with sockpuppets or trolls reviews when someone dares to bash their “special snowflake” is quickly drawn and quartered by users. If you’re an American you were probably even forced to read about public shamings back in high school . . .  (^^^^This vers
If you’re an American you were probably even forced to read about public shamings back in high school .
I mean, as distasteful as they may have been I think most people “got” both of the jokes, and while I agree it’s up to these individual’s employers to determine whether or not they want to keep these women on their payroll, I have to ask why it’s not okay for someone with less than 200 social media contacts to post something insensitive without getting flamed by millions, while Trey Parker and Matt Stone have made millions doing the same????
I definitely have more empathy for people who suffer the consequences of the internet's ruthlessness.
Everyone from 16 to 60 years old should read this.One big takeaway for me from this book was the idea that apologies aren't a one-way street, even if that's how the public wants to treat them.
And if the public is calling for someone to own up to something and apologize, they should be willing to accept it and move on.
But today, especially on the internet, everyone wants the apology without the reciprocative acts of forgiveness.
The Internet has made it easier to make a mistake and then be publicly humiliated for it, and Jon Ronson researched and wrote about a few famous cases.One incident highlighted in the book is Justine Sacco.
In December 2013, Sacco made a bad joke on Twitter, was hounded on the Internet, fired from her PR job, and has not fully recovered from the public shaming.
I'm white!"Ronson shows sympathy toward Sacco, pointing out that posting a bad joke about white privilege probably didn't warrant the incredible amount of worldwide shaming she received.Another case in the book is Jonah Lehrer, who was caught fabricating Bob Dylan quotes.
But - there were parts that made me angry at the constructed and biased outcomes, there were holes so wide a road train could have done a 3 point turn, and anytime Ronson got close to touching on something important but complex, Jon Ronson ran away fast if the journey wasn't where he wanted his book go.There were whole chapters that did nothing (the shame workshop ran by an unqualified looney was worthless - gee, who saw that coming?).
Obviously a book that ventures into "feminist land" isn't good for sales, and Ronson ran away fast.It's clear Ronson wants to present a lightweight, humorous, and yet, somehow, still important read.
(That is why I do things like #sarcasm above)At the same time, though, I think people need to be aware that we live in a society where if you put yourself out there, you might get burned.
Luckily, Goodreads seems to have fewer trolls than Facebook or Twitter.If trolls and unreasonably handled social media situations intrigue you, give this book a shot!One thing that I wanted to point out that is an irony (and maybe makes me a bit trollish), is that the first story in the book is about plagiarism.
The author talks about researching sources and making sure that what you are saying is quoted exactly or it may destroy your credibility.
Jon Ronson meanders around topics tangentially related to social media shaming.
Like his other books, it is not so much a book about public shaming as it is the story of how he became aware of the topic, and what the expert he interviewed was wearing, and how the victim he interviewed moved her food with her fork at the restaurant, and how many times he checked his phone while observing a group therapy session.
Jon Ronson starts out being just like the majority of us, he has the righteous view that if you have done wrong then you need to be slammed for it, humiliated, publicly shamed.
Please google Charlotte to find the story.Anyway Ronson's views change when he himself becomes an unwitting target of negative publicity online.
And I can guarantee that you don't know the whole story to the situation - please don't tell me you do because you read it in a magazine or online.At the start of this review I mentioned that in ways this can be linked to what happens on Goodreads.
I have one thought that has not left my head since I started this book: What the hell is wrong with people?
Though the subject matter is engaging and the author puts his personality into this, I felt the book was all over the place.
I am admittedly shocked at the examples posted by adults but I acknowledge that people make mistakes, everyone makes mistakes, and putting stuff out there online doesn't give others the right to judge/verbally assault/destroy lives.Because I have young children I am terrified for their future.
“We’re creating a culture where people feel constantly surveilled, where people are afraid to be themselves.” ― Jon Ronson, So You've Been Publicly ShamedJon Ronson is an amazing writer. He makes non-fiction a compelling page turner. In this book he studies and analyzes cruelty of social network's members and the damage public shaming does to individuals. This was exactly what i expected it to be, an entertaining, fun and easy read !! Highly recommend.
Looks like this particular pic came from Etsy.Jon Ronson's focus is on individuals who've been shamed on social media, especially Twitter.
Online shaming can target the wrong person, for example, someone with the same or similar name as that of the hapless perpetrator, or someone whose picture shows up in the wrong place at the wrong time, as in the case of the man mistakenly thought to have sent out the false Hawaiian missile alert.
Yet at that point Jon remains enamored of how in his view social media--Twitter in particular--gives a voice to the voiceless.
"The Circle", by Dave Eggers ......eerily creepy -plausible-dystopia-social media-"SHARING IS CARING".....is frickin -fun-reading...."So You've Been Publicly Shamed", by Jon Ronson......brutal-humiliation-public shaming of people---"SHAME- on - those SHAMING"......is a warning........scary jokes back-fired and became haunting ......tasteless trashy tearing people apart shamed people's behavior .....The first part of this book I thought was pretty good- funny even.
Jon Ronson begins with his first chapter with a personal story.
Remember the little seed in the Styrofoam cup: The roots go down and the plant goes up and nobody really knows how or why, but we all are like that.15.
want to read this because this author gave an amazing TED talk about how the internet allows us the dark satisfaction of shaming another person without consequence to us.in effect, destroying the lives of other people to feed the ragey beasts living in the darkness of our collective id.all day long.it's a fascinating talk:http://www.ted.com/talks/jon_ronson_w...
While I am writing this, a case of public shaming is going on in Germany - it is not in any way as vitriolic as the ones Jon Ronson talks about but is proof that his book is timely and important.
Public shaming is interesting and horrifying - Ronson talks about cases where a single tweet unleashed an outpouring of hate that stand in no relation to the offense.
While I do not agree with his assessment of the victims being completely not to blame (because wow, some things really were horribly offensive and they decided to share them anyway), hearing him read out all the inhuman threats made for an uncomfortable experience.
I suppose it is all a bit difficult for one to wrap one's head around, but luckily Jon Ronson has written a very good book about the angry people of the internet and their victims.
In So You've Been Publicly Shamed, Ronson introduces a slew of individuals who have suffered some form of public shaming via the internet.
I'd previously enjoyed the audiobook of The Psychopath Test by Ronson some number of years ago and was happy to return to him here.I enjoyed So You've Been Publicly Shamed because it helped to illuminate a part of the internet with which I've always been bothered.
Coming from an infrequent Non Fictioner, I found this compulsively readable!
Ronson's style is approachable, objective and even tender.
He researches and speaks with a selection of people who have been shamed for everything from an under-the-breath comment, to a deadly, drunken car ride.
He gives them a voice, humanizes them and shows the ways in which lives can be torn apart (and in some cases, put back together) by public shaming; either via a court sentence, or even Twitter.
Though I did find the subject matter interesting, I think I more enjoyed Ronson's writing and character.
I thoroughly enjoyed this!
We find out that men are less likely to get hounded by the community for sexual scandals than women or receive no backlash at all, that women and men women from ethnic minorities are more likely to be subjected to intense shaming, that some people who are attacked by online mobs commit suicide...
I think Ronson has it right in asking about the shamers as much as the shamees, the greater being how we as individuals and then as communities are policing the world and if or when we are abusing that power.
Shame, Shame, Shame Jon Ronson looks with alarm the ferocious nature of recent Internet public shamings of a few unfortunate politically incorrect people and the real-life aftermath (e.g., losing her/his job & livelihood), nicely juxtaposed against an instance in which the hyper-sensitive instigator had the scorn come back at her as quickly as a scorpion.ronson shame {limerick name}In his book called, "So You've Been Publicly Shamed"the author Jon Ronson has sought to proclaim, . . That sha
Jon Ronson looks with alarm the ferocious nature of recent Internet public shamings of a few unfortunate politically incorrect people and the real-life aftermath (e.g., losing her/his job & livelihood), nicely juxtaposed against an instance in which the hyper-sensitive instigator had the scorn come back at her as quickly as a scorpion.ronson shame {limerick name}In his book called, "So You've Been Publicly Shamed"the author Jon Ronson has sought to proclaim, .
. A former flame asked, "much like his wicky?"Which was not at all what he sought with his fame._________________________________ So You've Been Publicly Shamed in some ways resembles an informal sociological study of situations in which the Mob Rules and the speech police patrol the Net for the next villainous offender of sensibilities, real or imagined.
It’s part of Ronson’s exploration of modern public shaming, a lot of which focuses on social media sites like Twitter.
Plenty of people say tasteless things online and never have their lives trashed like the ones in this book and they’re never ashamed of their behaviour.
That’s alright though because I read Ronson for laughs and gossip and there’s plenty of that here.
And I just like the full title and author name: So You’ve Been Publicly Shamed by Jon Ronson - really, what’d that jerk do to you!?
Such a quick, informative and interesting read about the immense power of public shaming in the Internet age.
He also explores the role of shame in a broader historical context, with shame being the motivation and catalyst for more aspects in our daily lives than I had realized before.I think I would've given this five stars if the author had gone into a bit more detail about how public shaming is vastly different for men and women (he does mention it briefly in the afterword).
He gave a self-serving public apology that didn't go so well.• Justine Sacco - Tweeted "Going to Africa.
She lost her job as a caretaker for people with learning disabilities.• Donglegate - Woman (Adria Richards) at professional conference overhears two men joking about "dongles" and tweets their photo to the world.
rehabilitation?My key takeaways from this book:• While there may be some power element to public shamings, people usually think they are doing something good by participating.• It is easy to forget that your social media profiles are not part of a closed network.
In this book Ronson meets and talks with those that have suffered from the overwhelming and brutal response from twitter, as well as other forms of public humiliation.He starts with himself though.
But even this humiliation that now takes place now was considered excessive when you go back a couple of hundred years.This public shaming of people, for what most sane people would consider just ill thought out comments or stupid lapses, is getting out of hand.
