https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/153540.The_Little_House
One of the classics. And there's a good reason this book has been around for 70 years.Upsides: A sweet story. Wonderful marriage of illustration and text working in concert. A guest cameo from Mike Mulligan and his Steam shovel if you're paying close enough attention. Downsides: Your kids might wonder why the hell you are crying your eyes out when the main character of the story is a house.Well worth your time.
The Power of Nature.
The house is content living in nature and she is content.
She is curious about the city.
Eventually the city swallows her up and she loses her color and gets sad.
She is moved back out to the country where she is happy again.I take this as the power of nature and when we live in it's flows we are healthy and happy and when we rush about, we aren't so happy and we get sick more.
A powerful story.
It is even color, so the publisher really believed in it.
Rilla isn't sure she likes the look of Virginia Lee Burton's The Little House.
"It's about a big city growing up around this little pink house."Pink is the key word in that sentence.
It's my favorite book."Huck climbs half on top of me and begins to count the trees around the little pink house.
He's very into counting, these days.I love quiet books like The Little House, the kind that tiptoe their way into a child's heart.
But the city is encroaching, surrounding, swallowing the little pink house, and Rilla has picked up the urgency.
Read this many, many times as a child in the sixties. A beloved book that I still have today.
5★An all-time favourite children’s picture book that’s as old as I am (old) and as pertinent today as ever. I just saw a review of this and HAD to add it to my list. I’ve loved it forever. I know we were given a copy when our kids were little, so I’ve used that as a date, but who cares?Upshot: cute little country farmhouse is gradually swallowed up by 'progress', which is still happening. You can see a picture of the original Little House on the book cover. The Little HouseThe city moves to the
I know we were given a copy when our kids were little, so I’ve used that as a date, but who cares?Upshot: cute little country farmhouse is gradually swallowed up by 'progress', which is still happening.
You can see a picture of the original Little House on the book cover.
back to a similar hillside location.Meanwhile, there’s not much left of this Sydney house to relocate.
Lewisham, (Sydney, Australia) 2016Question: What will happen when we run out of hillsides for our Little Houses?
I loved this children's book about a pretty little house out in the country.
The house enjoys trees and flowers and seeing the seasons change.
The house is sad being in the city, and it misses seeing the sun and the trees.
In the end, the house is rescued and moved back out to the country, where it's happy again.Virginia Lee Burton also wrote "Mike Mulligan and His Steam Shovel," and both are classic children's books about dealing with major changes in the world.
The books are beautifully drawn with lovely storytelling.
I have been going through some books from my childhood and I have stumbled upon this great gem called “The Little House.” “The Little House” is a Caldecott Medal award winning book by Virginia Lee Burton and it is about how a small house learns the true meaning of “There’s no place like home” when a growing civilization is built around it over the years.
I also loved the way that Virginia Lee Burton contrasted the country as a peaceful looking place by having light colors around the environment while the city is shown to be a dark and dreary looking place.All in all, “The Little House” is a beautiful book about various changes going on in your surroundings that many children will definitely enjoy for many years!
Extremely cute book! I really enjoyed it :) It really shows how you shouldn't take your life for granted because one day it could completely change.
The little house, sturdily built during a simpler age, loves her life in the country but harbors a strong curiosity of what it might be like to live in the city.
Since this is a picture book, in many ways it oversimplifies the tension between the country and the city, and the country is set up as a universal good while the city is painted as a heartless villain.
The little pink house has the most charming, life-like face, and as a child I always wanted to live in it.
One of my favorite books from childhood this story remains timeless. This "little house" began its life in a bucolic, country setting and over time its integrity becomes threatened by encroaching development and neglect. For children, the concept of time is difficult to process. This story make it seem more understandable. Of course there is a happy ending and the house is rescued and relocated to the country. I am reminded of this story when I see small towns transformed by strip malls and unplanned development.
Tranh đẹp, dễ thương hợp với trẻ con, nhưng nội dung thì sâu sắc người lớn đọc vẫn thích, một câu chuyện trong trẻo về đô thị hóa. Thích lắm.
THIS BOOK! I forgot about it until I saw in on here! :) I've always loved it. Since we don't own it, we'd get it at the library! :)Good memories!
As a little girl, I'd ask my parents to read this picture book to me over and over again.
It is so sweet, and the illustrations are so great.I love how the pictures (and words, of course) personify a house without giving it overly human qualities like some children's books nowadays ...
Except in the Pixar animated movie Cars, I hate machines/house/etc.
with eyes or other facial parts that makes them look like creepy little humans.
I really HATE big cities (like, with a vengeance ...
the little house's second home isn't as good as his/her first one.
Many years ago I owned this little book & record, playing it on my little record player. I wish I still had it, but through moves and houses it was long gone before I reached High School. But I did find the old cartoon on YouTube today while I was trying to locate the book's author after all these years, plus a read-along of the original book. Good memories today, while looking for 'a book you loved as a child' for a reading challenge this year.
Very lovely story. Now, we are too busy.The little house love to see flowers and feel wind blowing. To live slowly is very important. This story maybe warning to the present generation.
I just loved this book. The little house was sad to see things change around her, but it had a happy ending.
This is one of the few Caldecott winners published before the 70's that I think could win if it was published today. Such a good little book.
So far, with the books I've been reading for this challenge, I've been able to see why they were selected for the list - the appeal they would have to children.
Even if I personally wouldn't have liked them - as with Each Peach Pear Plum - I can see the appeal to other children.This is the first book I've read where I've simply not seen the attraction.
Exposing them to it through a picture book might be seen as important by adults, but I can't really see little kids getting much from this story.
It is the story of a sweet little house that is happy and loves the family that lives there.
The family who built the Little House loved the house so much that they imagined their great great grandchildren's great great grand children living there.
It gets depressing.
Clearly in the real world things change all the time, but why bring all of that into a children's book?
I'm thinking of framing the happy times in the house for my daughter's wall.
"The Little House was very happy as she sat on the hill and watched the countryside around her.
The children's section has 4 shelves w recommended books on them, each table done by age group.
We hit the birth-3 years table & she picked a colorful book w a little girl on the potty on the cover.
The Little House was my FAVORITE book as a child!
I remember my big sister, she's 13 years older than me, reading me this story constantly.
Of all the books in the entire children's section Nina chose this one book.
With all the technology, iPads, computers & video games children have today, many kids aren't read to.
It is a simple story about a well-loved house that survives generations and generations, first being built in the country and observing simple life and season changes around it.
The little house, which was once set peacefully in the country to be loved by a quiet family, is now crowded in a dirty city, squished on all sides by tenements with a light rail buzzing overhead.
The author offers the reader many clues about what may happen next.The Little House could be integrated into the classroom through a social studies unit on how life and land change over time.
I knew the book was important to me as a child, but I couldn't remember why I felt a twinge of sadness.
As soon as I started reading it, I remembered: the poor Little House getting all forgotten and broken in the big city's shadow.
I grew up in the country and loved it and would have missed it terribly if I'd moved; it seemed so fitting that the Little House would love it, too, miss it and want to return.Reading it again as an adult, I couldn't help but wonder how a child growing up in the city might feel about the story.
Genre: Concept Picture bookThis is a sweet story about a house that lived in the countryside for a very long time and as time went on she began to see a city in the distance.
She was curious about the city and thought it would be an interesting place to be but as time progressed and the city grew into the countryside she began to realize that she was not accustomed to city life.
It tells the story of a little house, set on a hill amid a field of daisies, with apple orchards, and a pond where the children swim in summer and ice skate in winter.
Over the years the city encroaches, until the little house is abandoned in a canyon of skyscrapers.
Until one day the great-great-granddaughter of the man who build the Little House sees it, and has it moved to a new spot in the country.
I can see why it won the Caldecot, but I thought the story line was a little depressing.
I know the big fascination for me as a child was that a house could be moved--I'd certainly never heard of such a thing at the age of four or whatever I was then. And watching the city grow was pretty neat too, even though it didn't look much like the only city I knew at that point in my life (Toronto in the 1980s).
This was one of my favorites when I was growing up. I still enjoy it!
My 8 year old was so excited when I brought this book home from the library. He just loves it. Must have been introduced to it at school.
The protagonist in this book is a little house built by a man way out in the country a very long time ago.
The house is illustrated throughout the seasons of the year with the colors easily portraying the different seasons on the year.
The night is illustrated with black and yellow colors to show the lights of the city off in the background.
The moon calendar is shown on the drawing of the little house at night.
The colors are used throughout the book to show the seasons and also to show the difference between the country and city.
The book describes how the foundation of a little pink house is compromised, both literally and figuratively by an encroaching city.
She watches the children play and the seasons slowly change from her little hill in the country.
At times the lines are written rounded like the hill the little pink house sits on, and at others it curves like the roads being built through the hillside.
The granddaughter has the house moved to another hill in the country far from the lights of the city and the little house is reborn and “once again…taken care of.”Ironically, the book does not seem to condemn progress and the growth of modern societies.
Within the story, there once was a Little House who sat on the hill in the countryside where it was very happy for it got to watch how the moon and seasons changed.
“The Little House was curious about the city and wondered what it would be like to live there” (Burton, 4).
I particularly loved how the illustrator decided to depict the house as in the same place but changed its surrounding throughout the years.
Because the illustrations also depict the different seasons, this book would be appropriate when teaching children the difference in what the four seasons look like.
