https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/509080.Coming_Up_for_Air
I`ve read the book “Coming Up for Air” written by George Orwell. He was a British author who`s native born name is Eric Arthur Blair. He lived from (*1903 to † 1950). Orwell`s book is a tragedy which is combined with a lot of humour. It`s not only based on the historical events of this story, but also based on incredible aphorisms which consequently motivates the reader to deal with the details and messages. Its a very personal book which broaches the issue of a normal childhood combined with th
I`ve read the book “Coming Up for Air” written by George Orwell.
Orwell`s book is a tragedy which is combined with a lot of humour.
It´s a very personal book which broaches the issue of a normal childhood combined with the fear of the therefore upcoming World War. Moreover he uses the example of George Bowling to narrate the uprooting of the lower middle class after World War One, which failed by searching for a way out.
It leads to unconscious interests in the personal story and historical events and is consequently a book I would definitely recommend.
It is a well written novel about nostalgia, the lower middle classes, relationships between men and women and middle age.
Coming up for Air is narrated by George Bowling; a man living in the suburbs with a wife and two children, in his late 40s and in an unexciting but stable white collar job.
Usually Orwell’s female characters are more rounded (Julia in 1984), but the focus here is firmly on George Bowling and he certainly perceives the women around him in two-dimensional ways.
نزهة" عنوان لترجمة نُشرت عام 1969 لرواية جورج أورويل Coming up for airنظرة الانسان للماضي وقدرته على تذكُر ملامح الأماكن والأشخاص في حياتهرجل في منتصف العمر يحكي ذكرياته في بلدة انجليزية في بداية القرن العشرينحياته الهادئة ومتعه البسيطة في عالم ما قبل الحرب العالمية الأولى وبعد سنين في زيارة لبلدته يكتشف ان صور الحياة التي يحن إليها أصبح لا وجود لها سرد جميل وبسيط وفيه خفة ظل وواقعية, ومناهضة واضحة للحروب وآثارها
Orwell'in mizah anlayışına ve insanları eleştirme tarzına hayran kalmamak imkansız!"Hepimizi satın almışlar, hem de kendi paramızla."sayfa 21

A Note on the Text--Coming Up for Air
I spent most of the book wondering if anything was actually going to happen in this story.
The impetus for the plot is that George won seventeen pounds in a horse race and decides to keep it a secret from his family and go on a secret trip back to Lower Binfield, the village where he grew up.
When George returns to Lower Binfield, he doesn't even recognize it.The true beauty of the book is its description of the settings.
Also important is Orwell's prescience for the future: war is looming, and George is well aware that it might change the world forever once again.I would recommend this books to scholars of modern English literature and also turn-of-the-century England.
I would have given this book five stars had it not been for the description of wicked little boys killing baby birds for fun.This is a story about a middle-aged man trying to find an escape from boredom, fear and anxieties about aging, impending disaster and existence in general.
He hopes to find a little relief from the daily pressures of living by re-visiting his childhood town in the countryside, of which he retains fond memories.
You can probably guess.[P.S. Above all, this novel is a sobering reminder of the horrors of war.]
As he wanders around the City, he begins to dwell on his childhood in a tiny market town, the simple joys of fishing and reading that he never managed to recapture past the age of sixteen, and frets about the fact that very soon, the world will be at war and that all he knows will vanish.The world changes constantly, as do people.
The Great War changed something fundamental in the English lifestyle and George is just the right age to have watched the old world die and the new one take over.
My preoccupation with British literature set in the immediate pre-WW2 era and in, or around, London continues.
I recently read Hangover Square by Patrick Hamilton and that kickstarted a whole fascination with English literature set in or around London c1939.
This book is another great slice of pre-WW2 English literature.
George Bowling, the middle-aged, middle-income protagonist is a great vehicle for Orwell's musings on pre-WW2 England.
The book also contains some hints at what was to come with "1984" which Orwell would write a few years later - specifically musings on an "after-war" dystopian future characterised by hate, slogans, secret cells etc.
Kitabın daha ilk sayfalarında bu cümleyi kurduyor Orwell, en ünlü eserleri 1984 ve Hayvan Çiftliği olsa da (ki onları çok severim), geri planda kalan eserleri de onlar kadar iyiymiş bu kitapla bunu daha iyi anladım.
Kitabın dili öyle güzel ki, hem anlatmak istediğini anlatıyor hem de sizi hiç yormuyor, akıp gidiyor.
bir çok konu işleniyor ve hepsi de kitaba öyle güzel yerleştirilmiş ki, okuduktan sonra ufkunuzun açıldığını hissediyor ve yazarın değindiği noktalarla ilgili düşünmeye başladığınızı fark ediyorsunuz.Ben sadece yaşamak istiyorum.
İçinizde duyarsınız bunu; huzur verici bir şeydir ama aynı zamanda alev gibidir.
Released in 1939, Coming Up for Air is perhaps the final kiss-of-death to pre-war life in miserable old England, and the first ready-for-war book to soberly embrace the next six agonising years.
The protagonist George is a First World War veteran whose life has settled into the predetermined routine of people of his class and age—a travelling insurance position, a nagging harridan of a missus, and two kids too many.
A darkly funny if mainly miserable book about the people who lived lives of quiet despair so we could access Goodreads on our iPhones.
Neden sonra bir iştahla bu kitabı aradım rafların arasında ve elime almam ile bitirmem bir oldu demek isterdim ama araya hastalık girdiği için birkaç gün ertelendi kitabın bitişi ve bu inceleme yazısı.Öncelikle şunu söylemek istiyorum.
Bu kitapta adı geçen yerlerinin tamamını olmasa da tamamına yakınını gözüm kapalı zinhimde adresleyebildiğim için bu kitabı okumak daha büyük bir keyif vermiş olabilir.
Çünkü yaklaşIk 7 yılımı geçirdiğim bu muhitin yüz yıl önceki halinin resmedilmesi beni inanılmaz mutlu etti.Kitabı çok sevmemin bir diğer büyük sebebi de tabii ki George Orwell'in müthiş İngiliz ironisi ile bezediği anlatım.
George Orwell'i tanımak için, tanıdıysanız daha da bir sevmek için müthiş bir kitap.
ما دمره الحرب، تعيده الذكريات ..إجترار الذكريات هو الشيء الوحيد الذي يفعله إنسان لا يمتلك أي حياة، أ
There is a good deft portrait of a life of a working class girl, economically told in the description of the girl Katie, who although not much older than George, used to mind him and take him for walks as a boy - he sees Katie years later aged twenty seven, but looked fifty.I struggled with getting through those 93 pages of nostalgia but joy & relief when George brings it back to the present, and Orwell, through George Bowling as narrator, gives his own undisguised views on war, the army, government, social disillusion at coming back to no jobs after army war service, (this subject was also covered very well in Down and Out in Paris and London.) Orwell only focusses on how the war and coming out of the army to no jobs from a male perspective, he doesn't mention how women were displaced from jobs they held during the war.
I usually don't like books written in first person but sometimes authors who write that way do grab my attention and it's an enjoyable read. Sadly this book didn't grab my attention. Humorous to a degree and that's why I rated the book three ⭐⭐⭐'s.
I usually don't like books written in first person but sometimes authors who write that way do grab my attention and it's an enjoyable read. Sadly this book didn't grab my attention. Humorous to a degree and that's why I rated the book three ⭐️⭐️⭐️'s.
If the opening of 1984 foreshadows the dystopia in which that novel is set, the opening of this one suggests the work will possess a quality not usually associated with Orwell’s fiction, that is, humour.
Like much of Orwell’s work, it focuses on a character who tries to escape from the life he’s destined to live.
Moreover, having recently read Gordon Bowker’s excellent biography of Orwell, it was easy to see the effect on the work of some of Orwell’s other personal preoccupations.
For example, Orwell has his narrator share his own interest in the natural world and particularly his passion for fishing.
- Tek bildiğim, küfretmeye bile değer bulduğumuz bir şey varsa ona artık veda edin; çünkü alışageldiğiniz her şey çamura batacak, batacak ve bu arada makineli tüfekler hiç durmadan takırdayıp duracak.* En sevdiğim yazar ve en çok okumak istediğim kitap maalesef minimalist blogumun hazırlık evresine denk geldi.
Kahramanın beden ölçüleri ile olayı yumuşatması ayrı bir hava katmıştı.* Kitapta en sevdiğim bölüm kahramanın çocukluk anılarını anlatmasıydı, balık tutmayı hiç bu kadar tutkulu bir şekilde düşünmemiştim.* Kitap aynı zamanda sanki 1984’e hazırlık gibi bir şeydi.
Nešto drugačiji Orwell, ali jednako pronicljiv i britak.
Ovo je sentimentalna knjiga o odrastanju, puna slika iz djetinjstva koje je odavno prošlo i više se neće i ne može vratiti.
Dok razmišlja o svemu što je prošlo, ali o o ratu koji će doći, Hitleru i opasnosti koja je pred vratima, sve što on želi je otići u rodni kraj i još jednom pecati, kao što je to radio u mladosti.
S dolaskom u rodni kraj shvaća koliko se sve promijenilo, ulice, krajolik i ljudi i pokušava prihvatiti tu činjenicu na svoj način.
جورج اورول در این کتاب در نهایت سادگی، ظریفترین ویژگیهای جامعه و انسانهای عصر ما را بیان میکند. او هرگز در صدد خلق شخصیتهای قهرمان و خدشه ناپذیر نیست. او جامعه و انسانها را آنگونه که میبیند بیان میکند نه آنگونه که به مذاق فلسفهبافان عصر حاضر سازگار است. در عین بیان حالات و روحیات آدمی و تمامی گرایشهای فطری و طبیعی انسان، اگر خوب دقیق شوید، گستاخانه به کلیسا، سلطنت، مارکسیسم و اگزیستانسیالیسم دهنکجی میکند. انسان آنگونه که هست و نه آنگونه که میگویند!در این اثر شخصیتی که ظاهرا این ماجرای ساده و در
جورج اورول در این کتاب در نهایت سادگی، ظریف‌ترین ویژگی‌های جامعه و انسان‌های عصر ما را بیان می‌کند.
او جامعه و انسان‌ها را آن‌گونه که می‌بیند بیان می‌کند نه آن‌گونه که به مذاق فلسفه‌بافان عصر حاضر سازگار است.
انسان آن‌گونه که هست و نه آن‌گونه که می‌گویند!در این اثر شخصیتی که ظاهرا این ماجرای ساده و در عین حال جذاب را در جریان‌های اجتماعی سال‌های قبل و بعد جنگ جهانی اول تعریف می‌کند، یک آدم معمولی است، آدمی مثل من و شما.
گاه افسرده و خندان گاه متفکر و گاه بی‌تفاوت، زمانی انسان دوست و مهربان و زمانی شیاد و دروغگو، اما نه آن‌قدر دروغگو که این واقعیات را انکار کند...
Çocukluk, aile, savaş, kasaba, yaşlılık, hayat ve ölüm. Dümdüz blokları olan bir kitap. Konuşma belki yok denecek kadar az. Ama buna rağmen bu kadar sürükleyici olması ve elden bırakamadan okunması yazarın ve çevirmenin yeteneği elbette. Çok beğendim üzerine yazacağım çok şey var ama bence siz hiç burada vakit kaybetmeyin ve Orwell'in tüm kitaplarını okumayı hedef edinin.
I rarely connect on multiply levels with characters in books, but I have a huge connection with Tubby Bowling.
My favorite line was when he was talking about his wife he doesn't like anymore and that is "I actually thought seriously about killing her for the first two years of our marriage, but after that I didn't care enough to do that."	The flowers scene is of Tubby enjoying spring for the first time in a long while, to the point of picking flowers.
This book is a must read for any Orwell fan.
A perfectly functioning lock let the boats go by.It's just a coincidence that Orwell ended up in Sutton Courtenay at the end of his way too short days, but as a matter of fact he spent some time wandering and wondering around there when he was a kid.Now, what "Coming Up for Air" is if not an elegy of a similar corner of Oxfordshire?
But there is also some devastating humour in this book and the foresight of the imminence of World War II.Oh well, the whole list of the reasons why I liked "Coming Up for Air" may take too much time and far too many words to be done.
نمیتونم به این کتاب نمره ی پنج بدم. من جورج اورول رو دوست دارم. حرف هاش رو دوست دارم. سبک نوشته اش رو دوست دارم اما اگر این کتاب رو کسی به جز اون نوشته بود کتاب رو نمیپسندنمکتاب ترکیبی بود از سبک هانریش بل که دوست داشتمو موضوعش در بخش هایی از داستان نزدیک به کتاب ناطور دشت میشددر کل نمیتونم بگم خوب بود. بهتر میدونم بگم سرگرم کننده بود.
Loved it, just loved it. Orwell is fast becoming one of my favourite authors. Love his humour, wit and sarcasm. Lovely story about nostalgia which I would definitely read again.
Ama insanların içindeki savaş bitmiyor.
George'un içindeki savaş bitmiyor.
Hayatın ilerisi diye bir garanti yok onun için.
Bu yüzden de savaştan önceki günlerine dönmek istiyor.Öyle mükemmel bir hayatı olmasa da o zamanlar hevesleri vardı çünkü.George önceki günlerini anılar anlatıyor,biz de onunla birlikte anılarına bakıyoruz.
Malum savaştan sonra orası da değişmiş.George'un son çırpınışları da orada son buluyor.George Orwell'ın okuduğum üçüncü kitabı ve çok sevdim.Okurken George Bowling'in kasvetini, ümitsizliğini,mutsuzluğunu gerçekten hissettim.Umarım hiç savaş görmeyiz...
Çoğu yerde bir sayfayı bulan paragraflar vardı ama hiç sıkılmadım.Ben Can Yayınları'nın yeni kapak tasarımlı olan baskısından okudum.Kapağı okumadan önce bile çok beğeniyordum.
Okuduktan sonra daha da anlamlı oldu benim için.
الأفكار السياسية كانت ضعيفة جدا ورواية عبارة عن سرد مطول عن طفولته و حبه لصيد السمك بطريقة مملة جدا
Whilst not his most political novel (say, compared to his later works), still has quite an insightful aspect regarding life in Britain for the Lower Middle Class on the eve of a coming global cataclysm that everyone expects - and George Bowling - the forty five year old protagonist, seeks some sort of solace in wanting to return to his youth where he he spent his adolescence in a small English Thameside village called Lower Binfield (fictional location, but realistic portrayal on any Middle England location).
Narrated by George Bowling, a man in his late 40s, living in the suburbs with a wife and two children, with an unexciting but stable white collar job, this is a book of reminiscences and a nostalgic look back over his life.
Overweight, and with false teeth,George is a first world war veteran, now working in insurance, travelling regularly in an escape from his wife and children.Set in the pre WWII early 1940s, this book takes us through the life of George Bowling, as a child and adolescent pre-WWI, in a town called Lower Binfield.
4 stars because it was an enjoyable read, but only in a 'nothing-much-happens' kind of way.
I suppose an hour never passes without your thinking of things that happened ten or twenty years ago, and yet most of the time it's got no reality --"In very short the story is about a man who leads a very ordinary, quite dull, existence in 1939 England.
But in comparison to other authors, Orwell has the best works.Hard to rate since I love Orwell's style, the way he writes and the topics, I enjoyed the story and I love the time in question.
