https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11324.Under_the_Net
I may be alone in thinking this, but Iris Murdoch's main character here, Jake Donaghue, reminds me of Holden Caulfield of The Catcher in the Rye fame.
Both are seriously separated from normality, and both take us on their disjointed, almost chaotic, trips around their respective cities; Jake in London and Holden in New York.
Salinger's novel was published in 1951, Murdoch's in 1954, but I don't think there was any influence there, at least consciously, but their similarities struck me.
But now over 60 years later, Holden Caulfield is certainly more famous than Jake Donaghue.
The cocky narrator of "Under the Net" is precisely what all true antiheroes are made of.
Roaming the streets of London like some vagabond (though money frequently touches his hands) & interacting with vile people, THIS is a true perpetual ode to laziness, exactly the type of thing to spark my particular interest.
A more faithful rendition of London life had not crossed my eyes ever since "Mrs. Dalloway." This novel is a true treasure, it's as delicious as revenge, as emblematic as Big Ben, and as readable & elegant a read as few books EVER are.
I loved this book.
A first person narrative about a young man on a picaresque quest for love and friendship, with a good healthy dose of philosophy added in for good measure.The part of the story that stays with me is the story around Hugo.
I think I liked most the idea that a friendship might end on the basis of an assumed betrayal and that the betrayal is one of the spirit and not one that occurred at all.
“Hugo was my destiny,” Jake muses; even though he’s embarrassed to see Hugo again, he gets drawn back into a connection with him.One of the central themes of the novel, playing out with various characters, is the difficulty of seeing people clearly rather than resting with the image of them you’ve built up in your mind.
I’m looking forward to participating with several more of the readalong books next year, starting with A Severed Head in March.Another favorite line, spoken by Hugo: “One must just blunder on.
I actually think Money is a little better.
It's certainly amped up, which is startling considering how far Murdoch is already amped past mostly everyone else.She published this, her first novel, in 1954, so just before the similarly unhinged On the Road blew up the Beats.
(Recent discussion: "Has there ever been a sane Irish author?") So far as the plot matters, it follows Jake Donaghue through a series of misadventures.
The most memorable character is the dog.Murdoch is not my favorite author.
I like her but I'm not burning to read every one of her books.
Jake is captivated by a majestic philosopher, Hugo Belfounder, whose profound and inconclusive reflections give the book its title - under the net of language.
But the language use is there, such a repertoire of delicious combinations, and my 2016 quest of reading chronologically, will see IM develop .3* Under the Net (1954)TR 	The Flight from the Enchanter (1956)5* 	The Bell (1958)WL The Unicorn(1963)TR 	The Nice and the Good (1968)5* A Severed Head(1971)5* The Black Prince(1973)5* The Sacred and Profane Love Machine(1974)5* A Word Child(1978)5* The Sea, the Sea (1978)4* Existentialists and Mystics Writings on Philosophy and Literature4* Living on Paper: Letters from Iris Murdoch, 1934-1995
The substance of my life is a private conversation with myself which to turn into a dialogue would be equivalent to self-destruction"Winner of the Booker Prize, Irish-born British author Iris Murdoch’s (1919-1999) 1954 novel 'Under the Net' is a philosophical fiction dealing with the exuberant spirit of existentialism and freedom in a postwar europe.
In 2005, it was nominated by the TIME magazine as one of the greatest English-language novels from 1923 to present.'Under the Net' is an intimate journey, a retrospective look at life through the eyes of Jake Donaghue, the protagonist and the novel’s swashbuckling first-person narrator.
(She passed away only a few years before I read this first published novel of hers.) Her gender didn’t keep her from writing from a man’s perspective.The author created a sparkling account of Jake Donaghue, the penniless artist who networks with an array of magnetic characters throughout London and Paris.
From page one, witty phrases made me smile--and this marvelous little world that was constructed never ebbs far from the insightful.Virginia Woolf called novels “life escapes.” She continued, “and perhaps without life nothing else is worth while.” If we didn’t have existence in all its zaniness--all its pitch changes and scars—where would books take us?
Ms. Murdoch proves there’s always something worth writing about.
Containing all the requisite hilarity and pathos of a first novel, Murdoch succeeds where others fail, by aiming at one person and finding half-measures which translates into a fleeting philosophy but little transformation. This will likely spur me to read more of Murdoch’s books over the summer.
It seems to me that most male authors have male central characters, and female authors female central characters, especially when the novel is in the first person.
It also seems to me that female authors (in general) create more believable female central characters, and male authors (in general) more believable male characters, especially concerning central characters and particularly when in the first person narrative.
This shouldn't be surprising.
There are acute problems that I had with the ideas/motivations of the central male character, but aside from them Murdoch does a *wonderful* job of crafting a believable, fascinating male central character.
I read “The Sea, The Sea” (her Man Booker Prize work) and I considered it stunning, but the other books I read by her were even more powerful than her award-winning novel.“Starting a novel is opening a door on a misty landscape; you can still see very little but you can smell the earth and feel the wind blowing.”, says Murdoch.
I somehow feel like her character Jake Donaghue: I feel that I had a misperception when I finished the book and after a time of pondering, I come to realize through analysis the depth of what I read.Way to go Murdoch.
This is my first Iris Murdoch novel (although I've been meaning to read something of hers for years) and I was half expecting it to be dense and somewhat stuffy (literary award winning author and all that jazz).
Much to my great delight, it was no such thing.This book has a likeable, somewhat puckish, picaresque protagonist who leads you through a few days of his life in a conversational, easy-to-read style.
This audiobook version was read by Samuel West and his narration was superb.
So much so that I'm tempted to check out other audiobooks he's read, regardless of author.
I don't think I'll ever tire of Iris Murdoch and am on a mission to read every book in her oeuvre.Under the Net is a brilliant book about language and its inability to express certain things. It's leitmotif is that life is an amalgamation of meaningless events to which only the individual gives meaning. It's a very British book and is full of sounds and rhythms of London life.
Her first published novel, set in "contemporary" 50s London. Aimless youth gets philosophical. He oughtn't to be a sympathetic character and nothing much happens, but it's strangely compelling.
At the beginning I was enjoying this semi-farcical/semi-philosophical novel. I love the ridiculousness of the entire plot and the characters but after a while it just became a bore. Once I hit the last hundred page stretch I found myself picking it up, reading ten pages, and putting it down again ad nauseum. It was a bit of a struggle to finish. However this book has not put me off Murdoch's work thankfully so I will be revisiting her again sometime in the future.
تدور الرواية حول جيك و هو مؤلف و صحفي يعيش حياة فوضوية متبطلة، لا تلوي على شيء و لا حتى للشهرة و المال، أشبه بالريشة التي تستسلم للريح و لتأخذها حيثما شاءت، و حول بعض الأحداث التي حصلت له في فترة من فترات حياته مع أصدقائه، و خاصة هوجو، الرجل غريب الأطوار الذي يعيش فلسفته الخاصة، لدرجة التخلي عن ثروته أكثر من مرة لأجل فكرة...
و الكثير من ضمير الأنا للراوي جيك و عالمه الداخلي و تبصر في تحليل نفسه و مشاعره و تناقضاته...0ليس هناك من أحداث لا مألوفة، فالرواية هذه ليست قائمة على الحدث الغريب بالشكل الأساسي، و لا حتى على اللغة الشاعرية، و لكنها أقرب لتكون رحلة نفسية للبطل، و رؤية هذا النوع من الشخصية البوهيمية التي تميل للتنظير و الانفصال عن الواقع و كيف تتعامل مع الحياة الواقعية...
I found it impressive for a first novel, but I only semi-liked it.
The First Person POV misanthropic antihero reminded somewhat of Salinger; the highly detailed descriptions reminded me somewhat of A.
S. Byatt, and the semantics/linguistics philosophy reminded me strongly of Alfred Korzybski and S.
I. Hayakawa.
I admire all of these other writers and thinkers, so I'm surprised I didn't like it more than I did.
Maybe the wandering nature of the plot left me wanting more narrative pull?
Whatever, I’d like to try another one of her novels in the future.
Only a few weeks late, I finished this book for a July literary birthday read.
Parts of it were totally absurd and reminded me of that crazy movie that the Beatles put out in 1964 (A Hard Day's Night), which was a madcap romp around London.
On the other hand, parts of this book were extremely philosophical, almost wise!
I haven't thought about it enough to figure out exactly what Murdoch was trying to say (if anything) but I read a nice review on GR which seemed to sum it up quite nicely.
The review is here.I think that I need to ponder the book some more.
At times this reminded me a little of Richard E Grant's wonderful Withnail character of the film; theatrical, fully versed in the power of the English language, sponger, all-time heavy drinker and leading the most charmed existence possible in 1950's London.
All of these ingredients mixed with a hugely imaginative plot lead Jake through a series of insurmountable twists and turns which he faces with marvellous alacrity and spirit.
Add a cast of fruity and eccentric characters and a fantastical plot and you will not be able to put this little gem down.
Iris Murdoch is very good at contemplative, philosophical novels. This one, her debut, is also very funny.It follows the wanderings of a young man called Jake, through London, through his thoughts and through his attempts to understand other people. He is not very good at relating to others, Jakes' world revolves around Jake. He is self-centred in a way many young men are, not because he is selfish, but because he cannot empathise, however much he might like to. This makes Jake both irritating and endearing, and completely authentic.
I really find it hard to put in words why I have come to love Iris Murdoch.
I was first exposed to her writing with The Black Prince.
It isn't the plot or even really the characters that draws me in.
In point of fact, I really don't like the people in her books.
In this book, however, there is a lot more humor to be had.
It is like a slow, drawn out Wodehouse novel.
So, it must be something about her writing that I like.
It's a comfortable style.
A soothing style.
I will have to find more of her books.
I wasn't aware that this was the first book written by Iris Murdoch. But certainly it isn't by favorite book by one of my favorite writers.4* Living on Paper: Letters from Iris Murdoch, 1934-19955* Iris: A Memoir of Iris Murdoch5* Iris Murdoch: Dream Girl4* A Severed Head4* The Sea, the Sea4* The Black Prince4* The Bell3* Under the NetTR The Sacred and Profane Love MachineTR A Fairly Honourable DefeatTR The Nice and the GoodTR The Philosopher's PupilTR The SandcastleTR The Italian GirlTR The Good ApprenticeTR The Red and the Green
An unpredictable and charming novel.I'd never read Iris Murdoch until this little hardcover 1955 reprint caught my eye in a second hand shop in Venice a couple of weeks back.
(Yeah, only a week before the extra-high aqua alta of a few days ago, so I'd like to think I saved this lovely little tome from being lagooned before its time.) Opening the cover (to get a good whiff of the aging, thick, yellowing hardcover paper--mnmnmnmn), I spied that the novel was dedicated to Raymond Queneau.
Literature and film are represented, both high and low as well as politics in the form of Lefty and his particular brand of socialism and Iris Murdoch clearly knew her London.
I’m so pleased that my first experience with Iris Murdoch was a positive one and hope to read more of her novels next year whether I manage to follow the readalong or not.
The central character, Jake Donaghue, is a deeply flawed, self-absorbed artistic underachiever of the type that Murdoch went on to develop so memorably in later novels like The Black Prince and The Sea, The Sea. Under the Net is not as savagely funny as those books but has a greater innocence and vitality, probably because of the main character's (and the author's) relative youth.
Because of this, Donaghue's meditations on love, artistic and philosophical endeavor, friendship, London, Paris and the meaning of life in general come across more as charming than preening and self-indulgent (although he is undoubtedly both of those things too).
Not particularly humorous; the inclusion of this novel under the Comedy section of the Guardian's list made me anticipate something funnier. That said, I did enjoy it and perhaps if you are a writer, Jake might seem more comic.I liked Murdoch's writing style & look forward to reading some of her other books such as The Sea, the Sea.
Irish novelist Iris Murdoch's debut novel Under the Net is, at least in theory, one of those thrilling On the Road-style chronicles of youth spent without responsibility, thus creating interesting adventures populated by larger than life characters.
However, what separates Under the Net from other, similar novels is, simply, that the characters are--with the exception of Jake--not interesting in the slightest.
Murdoch spends a great fraction of the book explaining to the reader precisely why Jake's friend Hugo is so interesting.
Well, obviously, he won't actually spend much time homeless, because he's got vast wells of friendship to draw from, even if some of his friends don't particularly seem to like him all that much.
It's a kind of 'really, REALLY liked it'.I usually enjoy reading a novel's page on goodreads after finishing the book.
The story is too chaotic, pointless, improbable, the other characters too flat and what's with this senseless philosophy entertained by Hugo and Jake?I read those comments and could not believe what I saw.
As for the flat characters, they owe their unreal quality to the way Jake denies them any importance or individuality outside of himself and manipulates their images to fit his own liking.
Therefore, I was a little amazed when I read in one of the reviews: the the personality of some of the characters is not consistent throughout the book.
She can write and form lovely sentences, but the story was so anemic and undercooked I've lost my appetite.I spent the past few days wondering "Is there something wrong with this book?
At it's steamiest - four drunk men go skinny-dipping in the Thames after midnight - it still barely reaches a PG-13 rating.So again, I ask, have I become so jaded that I expect sex, violence, car chases, and the occasional explosion to be a reasonable reflection of the real world?
If you want to be a philosopher, write non-fiction.Again, I don't like to abandon a writer after a single book, especially their debut, so if anyone can suggest which of her novels are better, I would appreciate your thoughts.
It started out wonderfully, then slowed noticeably for about 100 pages.
That's a lot of slow for a book only 250 pages in length.
Jake moves around London a lot, and many London neighborhoods were mentioned.
He would start out with a purpose, run into friends, stop at a pub, then the purpose of his outing would go in an entirely different direction.
Murdoch gets it all back on track eventually, and has some very nice things to say in doing so.
There are a few more Murdoch titles on the 1001 list and I'll be happy to fit them into the mix.
