https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34942.The_Tangle_Box
I am revisiting the Landover series and just finished The Tangle Box. I loved that this book brought in some new surprises.
I don't want to spoil anything but I was surprisingly shocked by Bigger's Karmic departure at the end of the book, as well as the relationship between Ben and Nightshade and of course the birth of Ben and Willow's daughter."The Tangle Box" is an entertaining enough tale if you're looking for pleasant escapism.
Or maybe I read this book and was bored so badly I just decided to quit.
Spoilers after the cut.Okay, so here's the plot:There's an evil thing that escapes from a box.
Evil thing is put back in the box.
This is treated as humor because the bird does not nice things.
WTF.Oh right, and the masturbatory fantasy epilogue where you find out an exiled character is the author of such a series and bestselling and wink-wink not a stand-in for the actual author who couldn't possibly be from such a land.But mostly, with that plot, I was falling asleep.
Book Review: 3 Treasure BoxesBrooks did a good job of maintaining the three storylines and yet also expertly intertwining them, it kept the story interesting.
We get a better understanding of each of these characters and their interpersonal relationships form new meaning based on their interactions within the tangle box.
I am looking forward to reading the next book in the series.
I recommend you read the books from the beginning to get a better understanding of the world in which they live.
The story also builds from one book to the other, yet each book can be read independently from any other.
I liked the plot of this story considerably more than the previous installment. Maybe it's because characters like Strabo and Nightshade had a more prominent role. I found Horris very interesting in an I-can't-stand-him sort of way. I also liked that the G'home gnomes actually helped out this time instead of just getting in the way or complicating the situation. This book did seem a bit dialogue heavy in a few places, especially towards the end, but it brought back most of the characters that I like and had an interesting plot.
The Tangle Box was pretty tough to get into. Ben has forgotten himself yet again, from stumbling into another trap, but this time, his main Landover enemies have been trapped with him. Willow goes on a mediocre adventure of her own with the Prism Cat (who I'm sure is fabulous if you are a big fan of cats in general), and the G'home Gnomes play another starring role in beating evil.
Forgettable.
Quarto appuntamento con le magiche avventure di Ben,il re di Landover che si ritrova nei guai sempre
Best fantasy story Ever. A Dragon, a Witch, a Wizard or two, a scribe who's a Dog, a talking bird, an awesome magical Cat, a beautiful woman who keeps turning into a tree - and has a baby tree (Yes, I think it was years before The Guardians Of The Galaxy), some nasty Demons, a Victorious Knight and King, and lots of annoying peasants and strange creatures. And a Kingdom they are all fighting For and Against.
The Tangle Box by Terry Brooks is book 4 of The Magic Kingdom of Landover.
I started reading this series a few months ago.
Ben, the witch, and the dragon are locked away in a horribly depressing situation that frankly was a depressing read.
Instead, The Tangle Box was sparse on information about the characters I come to love, and filled in with awful images with little magic.
I’m taking a break from the series.
In part this is because I write epic fantasy and can't both read and write in the same genre while I'm working on a book, and in part because I don't read to be depressed.
I didn’t particularly like one aspect of their misadventures in the Tangle Box. I thought it added a little more of a complication in Ben’s life than was really necessary and, frankly, I found it rather disturbing.
(hide spoiler)] I felt sad for Abernathy, who was given a glimpse of what it would be like to be his old human self again, only to have it snatched so cruelly away.The ending was a bit abrupt but satisfying nevertheless, and I look forward to reading the next book in the series.
This was a difficult book for me to get into. I didn't particularly like the scenes in the Labyrinth, hence no more than three stars. However, Willow's quest was quite intriguing, and I especially enjoyed reading about Horris Kew and Biggar. The closer I got to the end of this book, the more thrilling it became. I loved the ending, even though I'm usually not fond of cliff-hanger-endings in series. Althought I'm taking a short break from this series to get some other reading done, I'm still very much looking forward to reading The Witches' Brew.
A questo punto sarei curiosa di verificare una seconda edizione.Per il resto, iniziando con la lettura e andando avanti diventa tutto molto più avvincente di quanto non appaia inizialmente: anche questa volta ci si ritrova a seguire praticamente tre avventure diverse, il viaggio della Silfide (che ho trovato delicato e attento come merita), le questioni a Landover con il Gorse in circolo, Biggar, Aberrnathy e gli altri e la disavventura di Ben, la Strega e Strabo.
How about another exile from Landover who is a bumbling con-man of a conjurer Horris Kew and a talking bird, Biggart, who unleash something far more powerful than they realize?
Sure, I guess.This may sound okay for a series that has never taken itself seriously, but nothing feels very fleshed out here.
Horris and Biggart to a degree are, they're both figures that enjoy living the good life and are good at living it at the expense of other people, but they're not great villains.
I also feel that some of the character reactions to how things get resolved in the book were a bit stupid, I'm mostly looking at Nightshade here.
****** Contains Minor Spoilers ******As simple as this world of Landover is and the small number of characters involved in Landover, Terry Brooks somehow finds a way to make yet another interesting story to the Landover series.
As expected the two quests of hers and Ben Holiday become entwined.This was a very enjoyable Landover book, one of my favorites.
If you like Landover you should have no problem liking this audio production of The Tangle Box.
While there is a bit of annoying dialogue, and some not-so-great decisions made by the characters, it all serves the telling of the larger story and doesn't greatly tarnish (inside Landover joke) the tale.There is plenty of backstory in the Tangle Box, so a reader could pick up and read this as a stand-alone novel, but it would be much better suited to readers who have at least read the first book in the series.
The Tangle Box is not his best novel, and not his worst, but it is an entertaining read, and is not absent a few thought-provoking nuggets.
While she jaunts off on a quest to ensure a good birth for their child Ben gets tricked into a dangerous situation with both Nightshade and Strabo.The funny thing is I got into this series as a teenager (some 20-odd years ago) because of this book's cover.
(view spoiler)[The plot with the tangle box and Ben trapped with his villains was interesting, but the ending was a smidge annoying for me as it basically just made Nightshade into a hysterical woman trope.

A nice return to Landover, and almost four stars. I dinged this because of the mis-handling of the witch Nightshade, and her reaction to the circumstances in the book. In truth, it felt disingenuous and a purposeful way for the author to keep her as a perpetual villain, rather than letting her (and the whole world of Landover) grow and evolve.
One of the better books in the Kingdom of Landover series. I liked the focus on the Sytph Willow and Abernathy the human turned into a dog. Also provided for a somewhat deeper understanding between Ben and the Strabo as well as the witch Nightshade.
A few new characters and another page turning story. Only one left in series :(
Good, quirky, fantasy book.
Probably because I hadn't read any of the first three books, but this one just seemed to be all over the place.
These books make me smile. a lot!
An interesting and unexpected turn of the overall "Landover" plot. And the mind's eye crystal pandemic was downright creepy.
I enjoy this book as much, if not more, than the first book in this series. For anyone familiar with my reading preferences, this is a difficult and rare accomplishment to achieve.
The Tangle Box by Terry Brooks was a good continuation to the series.
Terry Brooks is one of my favorite authors and I have every book he has published, many of them still waiting to be read.
I was annoyed with the frequent long passages reminding the reader about the history of Landover, the characters' special talents and back stories.
I can't wait to see what Brooks has in store with this new character, especially with the all the foreshadowing he hinted through out Willow's quest.
THE TANGLE BOX was my least favorite out of the Landover series but it was nice to read about a cast of characters I have come to love over the years.
I like the changes that the Tangle Box causes people. I feel bad for Nightshade in this one.
A good part of this book tells of their travels through the gloom of the Tangle Box. In the meantime, Questor Thews and Abernathy are left to care for the kingdom, not knowing what has happened to Ben.In the Tangle Box, everyone's worst fears are realized, and it's interesting to see the interrelationships of Ben, Strabo, and Nightshade, sworn enemies, as they no longer remember their previous lives and work together to try and escape whatever it is they're trapped in.So Kew and Biggar help the Gorse as he seeks vengeance on Landover through an elaborate scheme to take over the kingdom before allowing it to be destroyed by demons Ben has battled before.
The light elements allow occasional respites from the psychological helplessness and second-guessing going on as Ben and Willow undergo separate tests, even as Horris Kew (the con-man character who both opens and closes the story) struggles in a different way with his own identity and future.If you, like me, enjoy returning to a familiar setting with familiar characters and experiencing new challenges (especially, maturing challenges) and, like me, had put this novel aside thinking that Brooks had milked Landover too far, you should pull The Tangle Box off the shelf and see if Brooks still isn’t working magic after all.
