https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4657.The_Water_Method_Man
While The Water-Method Man feels and reads nothing like Irving's debut novel, I can see hints of his voice from what I read in the first 60 pages of The World According to Garp, which I abandoned not because I didn't like it but because I was liking it a lot.
2. I needed an author with at least 12 novels to his or her name so that I could at least read one book of theirs a month.
Now that I've gotten that out of the way, let me talk about this particular book.One of the main problems I had with Setting Free the Bears was the disjointed narrative.
this book is so unique in that it's absolutely not what you would expect from john irving.
It's only his second or third book, and you can see the beginnings of Garp in it, but it's so simple and streamlined compared to some of his later work.
It's a sweet, funny story with extremely memorable characters - in fact, I can't believe it hasn't been made into a movie yet.
A movie about a book about the making of a movie.
Also, it made me start going around flipping my tit at people who are full of it, and eating lots of yogurt.
The beginning is promising enough - PhD student Fred 'Bogus' Trumper consults renowned urologist Dr Jean Claude Vigneron about a particularly painful dose of "clap" with which he has been afflicted, so it would seem, since he was a teenager.
At this point I was hoping that things would take off but sadly the novel failed to sustain this initial comic momentum.It wasn't abundantly clear to begin with, whether 'Bogus' was with 'Biggie' or Tulpen or both since time-frames weren't made obvious.
This may have been a failure on my part, but it took me a good few chapters to get the chronology straight.
The whimsy that dances through "The Water-Method Man" and the powerful themes that run through "The Hotel New Hampshire" (the power of family despite a blind, befuddled father), "The Cider House Rules" (the right of a woman to choose) and "A Prayer for Owen Meany" (if Christ really were the Messiah, what would it be like to witness his coming, and to believe?) have faded, replaced by navel-gazing.Irving's newest novel, "In One Person," will certainly be a best-seller, simply based on the author's name.
I imagine this was purposeful and intended to emphasize Trumper's lack of depth, identity, purpose etc, but it didn't really work, generally detracting from rather than adding to the story.As always with Irving, childhood abandonment is a key theme (poor Irving!), and fathers that leave, although I'm more used to the actual fathers being absent from his books, rather than having the story told from the father's perspective.
It is hard to be on this father's side, as it's obvious Irving hasn't quite achieved an understanding of the absent father's motivations, which is reinforced by the whole cast of characters saying things to Trumper like "You just leave!
i want to read this because the main character has frequent urinary tract infections. but i cannot get into it.
This is one of his earlier books, and it is amazingly written. The first sentence alone still makes me shake my head in wonder.
By the time one reads enough to ties those strands together thoroughly, it feels as if there should be a resolution already close at hand, but there is a further development yet to come, and as a reader, I was by that time just as annoyed with the protagonist's inability to commit himself to anything as were all the people he'd left behind.Maybe this was intentional, but it made the last part of the book less enjoyable than the first part.
And I'll very likely try the other few early Irving novels I haven't read, because I trust there are treasures there to find.
The Water-Method is John Irving's second book, written when he was 29 years old, but it certainly doesn't sound like it.
Marriage and dating struggles, infidelity, raising children, and love triangles are all problems dealt with in the book, but even if the subject matter tends towards the mundane, Irving's stylish and clever writing makes it enjoyable to read about.
Especially clever are the various allusions to the Old Low Norse manuscript that Fred is attempting to translate for his thesis paper, and how its dramatic and epic elements mirror those more realistic experiences through which Fred must struggle.I think even Irving was aware of the rather stunted nature of the premise.
The second book by Irving is a stumbling step forward (from Setting Free the Bears), but this is still for completistst only I think. Sex-obsessed and way to bizarro to be a truly enjoyable read.
It is difficult to understand what the two female characters (both strong, beautiful and otherwise confident women except when it come to Trumper) see in him as a romantic counterpart; he seems fully detached from the world around him and more interested in himself than anyone around him, characteristics which for most women would be an immediate turn-off.Irving's treatment of his female characters leaves something to be desired.
I tend to think it is a combination of both, as his female characters tend to be more well-rounded in his later works (that I have read).The Water-Method Man isn't quite as funny as the cover blurbs make it out to be, but it is clever and very sad at the same time.
Um. What a hot mess!!
It started with an interesting narrative voice and Irving's usual brilliance with language but took a turn for the...dare I say it...BORING!!
Talk about creative writing, my beloved Johnny went wild in this book...going from epistolary, to screen play script, to third person, to first, to bizarro collage.
Too creative.
And certain lines feel a bit too dated and make me uncomfortable...John, not every woman wants to trap a wrestler into being her baby daddy, c'mon now.
Irving's first works and holy shadooby has he gotten better.
There is hope for my own hot messes!!!!!!!!!!
Yes.p.s. I love you John Irving.
Not my favorite Irving novel, but what he does here with time management (as in handling plot lines that take place in two or three different time periods) and point of view shifts is fascinating to read as a writer.
The POV changes as well, but I had a harder time determining the system he'd set up for that as it corresponded to the time periods.As is typical for Irving, all of these characters are fundamentally flawed and they often skew toward being unlikable at times.
Merrill Overturf is still lost…lives w/Tulpen.2 War-Built ThingsThis chapter t’would appear to take a 3rd-person look through…Fred likes to remember Merrill Overturf, the diabetic, who called him Boggle.
Etc. Biggie informs Bogus of the $ problem: It’s your father, the prick…And then it switches to eye-narrator part-way thru…Bogus down to basement again, springing the trap…though the Mouse has sprung it himself…apparently.Fitch, the neighbor, used to work for the Bureau of Statistics…and Trumper believes he has died…his imagination….sheesh, what next, hey?
23 Taking It Personally Film chapter…movie, making a movie….cuts, lines of dialogue from Bogus, Couth, Ralph, & Biggie.
The rest of the book is about his marriages, relationship with his parents, his career, and boy does it sound dull when you put it like that.The writing is still not so polished (his 2nd published novel) and this makes for a choppy, difficult read - but you can tell that once he gets his act together, he will be a truly tremendous writer.
The characters are at least more interesting than those in his first book and yet they still don't do many interesting things yet.When reading this book, I got the feeling that it was set in the dark.
It didn't take long to get into this one, but the character depth was a bit lacking.
I never really felt too much for any of them, but maybe Irving intended to write a story about people who aren't especially good or bad.
Just people.The story follows Fred Trumper during a period of being rudderless through college.
Feeling smothered.
After a time, though, he feels compelled to find redemption -- to finish something, and, in the way of later Irving novels, at the end, you don't get that everything-will-be-okay feeling.
You just have the feeling that, though the story is over, the characters live on...

Most people would consider this a very light Irving book, and not one of his great ones.
It was one of his first novels, written before "The World According to Garp." I certainly wouldn't put in it the same category with "Garp," "Hotel New Hampshire," or "Cider House Rules." But I have an enormous amount of affection for it....
It involves a graduate student who fakes his dissertation, in the most ridiculous way possible.
I found this almost unbearably hilarious when in graduate school myself.
You can definitely see the development of his style here, and the themes that would appear in his later books.
When I started "The Water Method Man" I was a little bit disappointed because it wasn't of the usual quality of Irving.
However, as I progressed with the novel, Irving's writing quality improved and as his first official book written as a Grad student, I am astonished at his early talent for an American narration and the usual humor he adds to all of his novels.
The first humor is seen when our protagonist is at a football game where he is selling gear and he tries to save face with one of his students.
Encontré la novela bastante confusa. No está ni mucho menos entre lo mejor que he leído de Irving, del cual destacaría “ Las normas de la casa de la sidra “. Empieza bien, pero luego se me hizo bastante tediosa. El estilo, mezclando entre primera y tercera persona, me resultó poco satisfactorio. Se salvan algunos pasajes cómicos, pero en su conjunto está lejos de figurar entre mis lecturas más estimulantes. Su época posterior es mucho más recomendable. Me costó bastante terminarla.
Probably the best of John Irving's novels - absolutely hilarious. Wonderful, inventive story about a man with a urinary tract issue (among others).Over the years whenever I was sad I read this book because it was sure to make me laugh!
didn't event go through the second chapter
One of the most random books I've ever read. It was my first John Irving novel...and my last.
Strangely enough, I thought it was crude. I put it down.
Choć czytałam parę książek Johna Irvinga ta jest czymś innym, unikatowym, muszę przyznać, że nie spodziewałam się czegoś takiego po jednym z moich ulubionych autorów.
Rozpad małżeństwa, uzależnienie od kłamstw, męcząca praca nad tłumaczeniem poematu z języka staro-dolno-nordyckiego to wszystko sprawia, że nasz bohater przeżywa kryzys.Jak na jedno z pierwszych dzieł przystało , książka nie jest wolna od błędów, które mogą drażnić tych mniej wyrozumiałych czytelników, którzy zaczęli przygodę z Irvingiem od jego nieco późniejszych powieści.
Choć nasz bohater zachowuje się jak dziecko we mgle to jest doskonałym prototypem późniejszych postaci w powieściach autora.
An unexpectedly gruesome tradgicomedy about the deadbeat but belligerent survivor of his own failures, Fred Trumper, who has a faulty urinary tract and an extremely hard time seeing outside of himself.
This is Irving's second novel and he is just starting to get his voice and stride.
The plot winds and loops like Trumper's urinary tract, it is generally engaging and the characters are well formed.
However, following this novel, Irving will make his third novel brief and sharp and his fourth will be a masterpiece that cements him as one of the best male writers of the twentieth century.
My favourite book of all times, I want to give it as many stars as there are in the sky, five is so not enough!
Written in Irvings beginnings, it's extraordinarily fresh, incredibly funny and deeply moving simultaneously, as has become Irvings trademark (not so much lately, he's getting older but not wiser, alas).
I've read it many times now (5?) and it never gets boring.
It is a deeply humane book, full of understanding and love for the people in it and their failures.
I was looking for either this book or the The 158-Pound Marriage and found this one first.
It was okay, I enjoyed it most of the time.
I liked the characters but felt they lacked depth.
Fred "Bogus" Trumper was kinda an asshole to the people around him.
I liked Ralph, Couth, Merrill (even thought he's in like what 3 chapters and the rest of the chapters Bogus is looking for him).
It's just an okay book, I think it lacked character depth for me Trumper as Tulpen would say "is just a surface".
Questo libro parla di un uomo e il suo problema: la prostata storta.Una sofferenza troppo grande da sopportare, per cui l’unica soluzione è un urologo.
Il padre dello stesso protagonista è urologo ma il rapporto tra i due è talmente devastato che lui mai si potrebbe rivolgere al padre.
Sceglierà questa terza via, mentre scorrono flashback del suo passato e del suo futuro, fra personaggi grotteschi e situazioni assurde.Fin quando non comprende che la sua vita e puro fallimento e deve dare una svolta, ma come?
For most of the novel, this water-method is quite symbolic of all of Bogus’ actions – he’s to scared to do anything major to change his life even though he says he wants to change so he keeps to the middle ground and avoids to commit himself too much to anything.Since I come to this book now and with the knowledge of The World According to Garp, The Cider House Rules and A Prayer for Owen Meany, arguably Irving’s three best novels, I have a hard time with seeing this book’s merits on it’s own and without comparing it to these novels – as well as The Hotel New Hampshire which I also love.
