https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8680278-we-ll-always-have-summer
All I can think to say is that I loved it. I cried more times than I'd like to admit reading this book. Susannah always knew who Belly would marry. If only Susannah had known how she would get there! This book started out STRONG. And I mean chest clenching, life altering strong. I've never smiled and cried so much in my life.
Instead it felt weary and dogmatic and contrived: it seemed the main event of the novel was there as a way to add (forced) conflict rather than as a character-driven choice.There was a lack of swoon for a book that is billed as a romance.
I am wondering if the author cares for her characters or just used them as pawns to create a (lacklustre and predictable) drama.I am also feeling out on a limb here amongst so many rave reviews.
I need a massage and nice strong drink.(I can't say I really like this one ~ but 2 stars for old-times sake) EDIT: the more I think about this book the more it annoys me.
And I thought "Hey, Belly finally grew up and became a lot more mature, I think I might actually like her now." I mean, she's already in college and is finishing her freshman year, so she just has to be different from the clueless little girl right?
Then, Jeremiah just had to act all pissed off and demand if she was hiding anything, if she still had feelings for Con...etc., Belly admitted and Jeremiah said something like "I've known all along" and just fucking ran away the night before the wedding.
Let me start this by saying we'll always have summer probably might be the  best book i have ever read .
Throughout the book you're debating whether belly should choose jeremiah or conrad.
Another thing i loved about it was that it had Conrad's pov and that made things so much more clear.
Anyway, I loved this book.
Like really really loved it .
We need more belly and conrad and jeremiah :( but the thing about the ending is that it's opening a door for your imagination to decide whats next :)
3.5/5EeeeEEEEEEEeeeee those are my feelings on this book.
Rating: 1.5I feel so let down by this book.Let's get one thing straight.
I felt like the majority of the book was spent telling us how bad Jeremiah had fucked up by turning him into a jerk, whilst, on the other hand, Conrad was made into this poor, misunderstood boy who had been this hero all along.
To have allowed Belly to have fallen for whoever - just as long as you hadn't changed the boys so drastically.
I feel like she thought we couldn't handle who she would pick, so she she just decided to completely change them - as if to soften the blow.
When reading this book, you will becoming very frustrated as I was.
Throughout her entire relationship with Jeremiah, she kept having that doubt in the back of her mind that told her this is wrong.
It was the small things that showed Jeremiah was not for Belly.
Belly is an imbecile.
I think we all know how this story ends, and who it was she was going to end up with.
I say thank god because I would have burned this book should it have been the other way around.Very great ending to a beautifully written series.
Maybe if Han had embraced her severely flawed characters instead of covering them up I could have liked the book a great deal more.Belly: I wish I could say I wanted to slap her, but I just stopped caring about her altogether after the second book.
It was astonishingly inconsistent writing, but that doesn't matter because he wasn't the big love interest and who cares if his character was sacrificed to make that happen.Conrad: I don't even know where to begin.
I don't know why people feed girls the idea guys like Conrad are somehow more romantic.
I fell in love with the series since the first book came out, but now I can't believe it ended the way it did.
Now I have to say, Jenny Han is an excellent writer who really knows how to bring out emotions in her book, I just hated the way she toyed with her readers by making them jump from guy to guy because she kept on changing personalities throughout the series.
So all in all, I feel like 2 is too harsh, but 4 is too much, so a I give a three to the book that is written exceptionally well but was unfair to the readers.
This had SO much angst and one of the most intense love triangles i've ever read about, yet the ending was such a cop-out. I'm very disappointed; I wish the first book had remained a standalone and I could've spared myself the next 600 pages of drama and angst, because I knew from the beginning who she was gonna end up with.
I was almost sure I’d go for team Jeremiah but he seems to have transformed into a completely different person, so sloppy, careless and insensitive or maybe the story finally revealed his true colors and I honestly did not like it.
Obviously, Conrad is the good person I’ve always thought he was.
I’m just upset with Belly for jumping in such a big decision as getting married while being so unsure of her feelings so that’s a star off from my rating because I’ve known her as smart and rational so I was very disappointed with her.
I’m glad good fortune or perhaps fate meddled with her story and still ends up marrying one of the Fishers.
This was perfect.
Es que no sé, tengo conflictos pero igual me gustó. 3.5 estrellas. Tal vez luego cambie la calificación, por ahora así se queda.
Re-read 8/22/17: So I did still enjoy this, but I gotta be honest and say that this series wasn't quite as "OMG DIS IS DA BEST THANG EVER" upon re-read. When I originally read this I shipped Belly with a different guy and I have TOTALLY changed ships this time around and I am not about dat ending anymore. This was probs more of a 3.5 stars. It was good, but not great.Original read 6/2/14: Crying for the rest of my life because this series was spectacular and I am so, so bummed to be leaving it behind
The kids grew up together and Belly couldn’t help but have a crush on the oldest, Conrad, for most of her childhood but over the course of the books Belly developed feelings for both brothers.The story is a bit of a coming of age tale with a side of romance and family dynamics with plenty of emotion infused into the books along the way.
This trilogy was wonderful!!
I loved that it had so much deeper meaning than what the summary or the covers suggest.
I felt so close to these characters and in the most simplest of ways.
I really love books where the setting takes on a character in itself and Cousins beach did that.
I felt like I had grown up there and called it home as well.
The second book was definitely my favorite out of the trilogy and even though I don't really care for love triangles in books, somehow this one just worked and I truly enjoyed these books!
But the main reason why I'm feeling so confused, is I honestly HATED the first 100 pages or so of this book (because of the infuriating, annoying characters) But LOVED the last 150 pages or so...
I definitely can relate to these characters and by the end of this trilogy I just felt like they were so REAL.
This is also how I felt about Jenny Han's other book, To All the Boys I've Loved Before.
I mean Jeremiah seemed like SUCH a good guy in the first two books.
Perfect,perfect,perfect. I cried so much. One of the best series Ive ever read.
Perfect,perfect,perfect. I cried so much. One of the best series I´ve ever read.
When I first met Belly, Jeremiah and Conrad I didn't like Belly.
I remember the summer I turned pretty.
A lot like Belly.So here we are now at the end of Belly's freshman year at college.
Conrad is absent, Jeremiah is in a frat house and he and Belly are still best friends who date.
The story plays out the mother/daughter dynamics of wedding preparations, brother of groom who loves the bride dyanamics, and best friend dynamics.
The ending is satisfying, a little bitter sweet but mostly happy.
Okay, maybe a little bad but, like I said, it was satisfying.Will it be Jeremiah?
OKAY SO.
I really didn't think that this book was going to go in the direction that it did, but in hindsight there was a spoiler at the end of the second book talking about Belly at her wedding so duh.
This was my least favorite in the series because I still couldn't grasp the whole "they are spontaneously getting married" thing and I was mostly in shock through the entire book.
THE ENDING THOUGH.
But WOW.
I honestly liked one brother way more in the first book but this book trashed him.
So yeah, if you've read the first two book DEFINITELY read this book to figure out how everything ends up!
"He didn't give me flowers or candy. He gave me the moon and the stars. Infinity." ♥I shipped these two from the beginning of this trilogy,so when it all fell apart,i had to drag myself through the book,only to see Belly doing the same mistakes over and over again. I couldn't relate to her as a character,because to me she was a bit selfish,a bit blind..But but (i'm not going to spoil it for you guys.) but the ending was really satisfying. They had their forever and for me that was enough ♥
I 've just finished reading this amazing book and I know I'm pathetic,but I'm crying like a baby.
I love this series for two reasons - it's so honest and real that it makes me think there's probably true Conrad in Jenny Hans' life.
Second reason is - I have Conrad of my own.
I came back after a month and first person I've met was him.
We've been together for two months and than it all fall apart.
He acted just like Conrad - than and later.
We talked couple of times over the phone and then we went out - on a date.
A cute, fluffy last book in a cute, fluffy trilogy but holy moly was this infuriating at times...
This whole book somehow felt both rushed and stretched out at the same time.
The whole trilogy was about getting to that moment and it lasted no more than a few pages!
As a whole, this trilogy makes for a fun, fluffy, summery read and I'm glad that I've read it over the past three summers and Booktube-A-Thon's!
He didn't give me flowers or candy. He gave me the moon and the stars. Infinity.  At first, I was worried that this book may take away from the first two books of the trilogy, but to my surprise, it turned out great-- more than what I've actually thought. In this final book of the series, the drama and romance became much deeper. This is the kind of finale that will absolutely transform you into a swooning mess. The storyline is too beautiful and heart-tugging. Believe it or not, Jenny Han's wr
He gave me the moon and the stars.
In this final book of the series, the drama and romance became much deeper.
This is the kind of finale that will absolutely transform you into a swooning mess.
Believe it or not, Jenny Han's writing style will make you think you're watching a soap opera or something.
I did not expect the ending.
That twist at the end?
Well, I didn't have any real expectations on how it ends in the first place, but man, that surprised me!
Never mind.) Oh, Jenny Han, I'm already a fan so sign me up!
Rating: 5 Stars
Add to that Jeremiah, Conrad's little brother who has always loved Belly and you get drama wrapped in a YA love triangle.
I was invested, I liked Belly and both Conrad and Jeremiah had moments of being the kind of guys my teenage self would have loved.
In fact, I thought that Jenny Han did a very good job with actually making a love triangle complex.
Jeremiah and Conrad's character flipped and flopped with whatever plot point Han was pushing.
Why do authors of books like this make it seem that romantic love is more important than family bonds.
Belly learns new things and is upset by them, but decides to set what she knows to the back of her head and go on with life.
Feelings pop up out of nowhere and we see how she deals, just like every other summer novel, but it is sweeter to read.
You notice a different tone in Belly now; she is not the hopeful, love sick little 16 year old anymore.
5. In the end, was the boy Belly left, heart broken?
Knowing what kind of person Belly is, you wouldn't even have to ask.
The third book was the best in the series.
It ended like I knew it would.
If I liked Jeremiah in the first two books, I kind of hated him in the last book.
Those letters which ended the book were the best part.
I knew I will read chapters written from Conrad's point of view in the last book and I have to admit it was a great idea to dedicate a book to each character.
I think I would have liked this series more if I read it when I was younger.
you should read the books when you are a teenager.

A great conclusion. I just can't stress enough how unexpectedly heavy hearted this is!!
I'm a pool of emotions right now. I adored this series so much. This book almost broke me, but I'm glad I powered through (emotionally)!
