https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/422755.The_Journals
In short they seem'd to set no Value upon any thing we gave them."It seems that Cook himself was free of all those material attachments and was as happy as the Islanders he met.His story of his life choices is as powerful as his exploits as a navigator and explorer.
This seems extraordinary for the 18th century and is a fitting tribute to a man who saw himself as an ambassador and as responsible for the welfare of the peoples that he met as well as his own crew.And finally, after a lifetime of being irritated that every point, island and headland is named after some white guy, I finally really understand what an incredible feat of science and bravery the mapping of the oceans was.
What a weird, important book. Cook almost sees the native peoples he encounters as human, and that's a good thing, but the evidence of the lousy Western filters he's internally compelled to place over his observations are a word to the wise about our own predispositions. Read this and deal with your whiteness.

Quite dense and clotted with nautical terminology that might baffle anyone who hasn't spent their life either at sea or reading all of Patrick O'Brien's novels, but still packed full of wonder. Cook was an authentic hero, and surprisingly modern in his view of other cultures. His end was decidely sticky but that, obviously, doesn't feature in his Journals: '14 Feb 1779 - Kealakekua Bay. Hacked to death today on beach. Weather quite pleasant. Wind North by North East.'
Here’s a thought: if you are abridging the journal’s of James Cook’s three voyages to the Pacific, how about including a map!
This is a very frustrating read.
Thorough and mostly boring, it does evince an appreciation of the heroism of civilized man when encountering savages.
Cook attempted to elevate the primitive by providing conveniences to make their lives bearable.
These journeys display one basic truth espoused by political philosophers: until there is an appreciation of private property, there is no law and without law, chaos exists.
The heroism and sacrifice of these sailors is mind-boggling to a modern man.
Nice anthology of the journals. Clearly condensing the journals of three voyages in just 300 pages is no easy job, therefore some interesting parts are missing, like the description of Tongan customs of the third voyage.Overall highly recommended
Listened to a shortened version of this on audible. I will listen to the full book eventually. It was a crazy story. Very close to giving this 5 stars.
Never stop exploring
For these reasons The Voyages of Captain Cook seemed to me as if it would be the absolute paramount of my insatiable reading desires.
The Voyages of Captain Cook was what I would like to call, in the old fashioned sense: boring.
The book follows the three voyages of Captain Cook.
Cook ends up going along the American coast looking for a northwest passage and ends up running into Alaska before retreating back to the Sandwich (Hawaiian) Islands to wait for the next summer to come before making another attempt.
Ce livre contient les journaux de bord des trois voyages que le navigateur James Cook fit dans l'océan Pacifique à la fin du dix-huitième siècle, et au cours desquels il découvrit la Nouvelle-Zélande et les îles Tahiti.
Ces expéditions avaient en premier lieu un caractère scientifique, mais Cook avait également des instructions pour établir de bonnes relations avec les naturels.
La Nouvelle-Zélande a un climat parfait pour l'agriculture, ainsi qu'il s'en rendit compte après avoir planté toute sorte de végétaux et les avoir retrouvé dans les voyages suivants.
The first journey was done by telling longitude from the stars; the last two he had a chronometer on board.
He discovered many new islands in the Pacific, went all around the northern and southern islands of New Zealand, went as far south as he could to Antarctica, up to the Arctic Sea, around the Cape of Good Hope and Cape Horn, and on and on.
But the impression I had was of the variety of things, people, plants and animals.
His knowledge of the sea was amazing and he knew his ships and his people well.
I was interested in reading this having recently moved to Hawaii.
It was long and a bit hard to get through, but I learned a lot about seafaring technology of the 1700s, Captain Cook himself, and the history of sea exploration in the Pacific.
The most interesting parts to me were the accounts by Cook/others in his crew in his journals about various Pacific Islands, Antarctica, Australia, NZ and the plants, wildlife, peoples etc..
I have not read other versions of Captain Cook's history, but I really appreciated from this book how skilled, thoughtful and insightful of a captain he was.
Of course, I don't know what the missing parts consist of, but in some cases, they seemed to be important or interesting.
I lost my way halfway through the second voyage while Cook was wandering about the Antarctic, but found myself more interested in the third voyage, reading along as Cook changes in his attitude towards the peoples he meets.
Reading about his trips to Hawaii are some of the most interesting parts of his voyages, if only to search vainly for hints of his impending death.
They're not here of course, but it's the sort of thing you look for anyway.
I read the Journals when I was traveling in Asia and enjoyed the beautiful beaches and the warm weather. Since I also visited New Zealand and Australia some years before, this was always one of my want to read books. Of course this is no novel but the actual records of Captain James Cook and therefore it takes some time to adjust to the style. Nevertheless I found Captain Cook to be very entertaining and for a man born in the 18th century very open minded. So if you like non-fiction and travels, this might be something for you.
This book would have been so much sweeter if it had been condensed down to about half of it's 657 page length. It is very repetitive and boring at times. There are worthwhile events and interesting passages, but they are sandwiched between long and monotonous sections that can get quite dense with technical jargon and inconsequential ramblings.
The editor of this abridged version of Cook's journals has left out most of the interesting anthropological observations made by Cook and his crew. What we're left with is page after monotonous page of navigational details and weather reports: fascinating, I suppose, if you can read a sextant, but a little dry for the rest of us.
The comments by the author keep you focused on whats happening while the actual words from the journals of Cook make you feel like you are standing next to him during his trips. Get a good map of the trip by searching the internet, it will help you focus on the scope of his journeys which is awesome.
I am fascinated by all things regarding seamanship and nautical exploration of the 17th and 18th centuries, and am looking for more recommendations regarding circumnavigation and exploration. A very interesting biography so far.
pretty cool to get his side of imperialism, as he was unknowing to the dominance his efforts would have on indigenous cultures.the journal entries themselves are painful, and can almost be skipped in some cases. overabundance of nautical info.
A very interesting book as a man of the Enlightenment confronts a world of cannibals and civilizations without notions of private property. I would have liked this man had I the opportunity to know him. The introduction and footnotes are very helpful.
What else I can accept from Journal, right?
This one is going to take me a while...
The fact that you can read the journals of someone who travelled around an unexplored world centuries ago is incredible.
Informative but about as gripping as Undaunted Courage and in the same vein
The actual journals of Captain Cook. How cool is that.
Read through the abbreviated version from the Folio society.
this was the Heritage hardcover edition
Not bad. Not Cook's actual journals but an edited paraphrased version.
I needed to look up his experience nearly getting poisoned by fugu. I did that. It was interesting.
Just one voyage for me thanks. I'll let JC sail on to the sandwich islands unaccompanied by me for now.
