https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13154150-attack-on-titan-vol-1
WHOA. LOTS OF STUFF. I just watched the first few episodes of the anime recently, and this volume had so much action all packed into it! (around 6 or 7 episodes' worth). I think I'm going to take my time reading these, as I really enjoy being surprised by the show.
Honestly speaking?I didn't think I'd love this manga SO MUCHI dived in because I wanted to watch the anime, but felt the need to read it first... Then it just blew me away. I loved everything about this manga... the rawness, the gore... the action...the mystery... omg am just in awe and am eager continue it~~!!!I havent had a manga hold my attention for a while to such an extent (apart from usual obsession of those I keep up with xD)Ah~!!
I also don't understand how this is already up to 11 volumes when (some spoilers for volume 2 as well) (view spoiler)[the main character "dies" in the first volume, (though I'm guessing, since I've read a bit of volume 2, that he somehow inhabits one of the Titans, so he's not really dead.) (hide spoiler)]I don't think the art is particularly good, and while the story is pretty unique, I was kind of bored, honestly.
What I watched though was pretty much scene-by-scene for what happened in the manga, though I'm not sure how long the anime stays like that.I found the main character brash, whiny, and annoying, and the fact that he's prone to shouting and going nuts didn't endear him to me at all.
Thankfully, our young heroes finally take action - and as it turns out, countless young readers around the world can relate to the desire to restore human dignity and, yes, save the world: "Finally we can be useful," as Krista puts it just before the battle starts.A key element that makes Attack on Titan so popular is its openness, I think: a wide range of meanings can be attached to those all-devouring "titans" that threaten the survival of the human species.
Once you have made up your mind, you'll probably find yourself cheering for our young heroes.
I didn't think that this would be as good as anime (because anime is bloody fantastic), but it was. I loved the art style, characters and above all amazing and brutal story.My first manga, but it definitely won't be my last.
This is my second time reading the entire series 'cause season 2 is coming to an end and the waiting for new chapters has become unbearable. Although i know exactly what happens next I can't help the shivers and the tearing up especially when I see characters whom I love and are no longer alive. (view spoiler)[ I am talking about you Marco :'( (hide spoiler)]The artwork is amazing and the plot is phenomenal I mean could I ever say something bad about shingeki? Hell no. The cliffhanger in the end
Although i know exactly what happens next I can't help the shivers and the tearing up especially when I see characters whom I love and are no longer alive.
The cliffhanger in the end brings back so many memories.
Can a main character die so quickly???
Arghhh the feels <3Shingeki no kyojin is a manga for those who love to be amazed and shocked and fancy being bombarded with a million twists!
Some even steal the show from the supposedly "main characters" One thing I can tell you.
The humans live in medieval-type castle structures with multiple layers of walls that don’t work to attempt to protect themselves from the Titans who want to eat them for some reason.
Our hero is the perpetually constipated Some Guy who wants to join the ineffectual Something Corps who go out and get eaten by the Titans sooner rather than live as well as they can inside the large walls before getting eaten later.
To combat the Titans, the humans have developed grappling hooks and spears that don’t work - this is set in the future!
Attack on Titan Volume 1 sucks ostrich balls!
3.5 stars.Coming in as an anime fan, I think the anime did this a lot better. This seems like a rough sketch by comparison.
Hopefully the mangaka keeps writing the titans in this way.There are always people who don’t like gore and nudity, so I feel the need to talk about how those things come into play in this manga… There isn’t much gore in this manga so far as I’ve seen in other manga, but there is definitely a lot of dead bodies shown and the necessary gushing of blood whenever a titan slaughters and eats a human.
I’m not exactly a fan of this but it is kind of required as this manga is all about titans and humans battling.

This is very hyped but so far I'm unimpressed. I really hope it gets better because volume 1 was just ok-ish.
“Channel the anger swelling inside youFighting the boundary 'till you break throughDeep in your soul there's no hesitationSo make yourself the one they all fearThere is a wild fire inside youBurning desire you can't extinguishYour crimson arrowRips through the twilightThis is the moment for war!” I am obsessed. Please send help.
Y'all know I love me some Attack on Titan. I just couldn't help myself.Don't look at me like that. One thing I really like about this book was that it pretty much was in line with the show. (I saw the show before reading this.) So that could be why I read this so fast. Might have skipped a bit. #sorrynotsorryThis first book was the only one that was free, so I think I will just wait till I have the fucking Colossal Edition before I read more. Cause  DAYUMN . Look at those fuckers. They HUGGGGE!A
Y'all know I love me some Attack on Titan.
I just couldn't help myself.Don't look at me like that.
One thing I really like about this book was that it pretty much was in line with the show.
#sorrynotsorryThis first book was the only one that was free, so I think I will just wait till I have the fucking Colossal Edition before I read more.
. Look at those fuckers.
They HUGGGGE!And they finally went down in price so I can get the first one for like 30 bucks!Like a fucking lottory winner!Oh ...
look at this movie adaptation.
There's a lot of hype surrounding Attack on Titan, though a lot of that is for the anime version.
When the titans were actually attacking, it was a riveting read.But the book doesn't spend all its time detailing attacks.
That's probably a good thing, in general, because I just would have gotten tension fatigue.
There are a few panels that are effective, and the titans' designs are chilling, but in general it just looks clumsy.
The premise is good, but is that enough to keep me reading?
BEST. MANGA. EVER.if you're hesitant to pick this up because you think the anime is better, don't be, this is as good as the anime.I LOVE THE HECK OUTTA OF THIS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
Story I knew I'd enjoy the story coming into it, because I watched this anime already. I decided to check out the manga because the series ended in a terrible place and there is currently no plans for another series/second season.There wasn't really anything I didn't know from this book. The first two stories or line up with the first few episodes of the show. The manga skips over most/all of the training however. I'm not sure if the people who did the show added all that in to give the charact
In a way it's almost like a re-read for me, even though I haven't done the manga before.This volume ends in a terrible spot, and I'd be dying for the next book if I didn't already know what happens next.Despite no real surprises I enjoyed the manga almost as much as I did the anime and plan to continue reading it as I can get copies from my library.
I thought it was pretty good until the action sequences.Those just appear to be a blur of lines that make it difficult to know what's going on.
I had heard a lot of good things about this series, I also agree that the concepts are refreshing and exciting. I even read *part* of the first few volumes.But I just don't think this series has successfully held my interest. I read one volume...then... I stopped.So it's one of those Read only when it's for free books.
I'm currently OBSESSED with the Anime and I NEED to get my hands on this!
Nije loše za početak - intrigantna distopijska priča, dobra grafika, interesantni likovi.Na nekim mestima je pomalo zbrzana radnja, ali sve u svemu jedva čekam nastavak :D
It is very hard to write about a manga like this one.
I was horrified when I saw this, but I couldn’t turn away.
Yes, like that if the process were reversed in the Giant’s favor!
If the giant, a bunch of them; came down in an endless stream looking for humans; to eat.
No preference—just humans.
Any human.
but just horrifying.
Humanity trying to keep itself from extinction from these giants of humanoid shapes and varying sizes with one known weak spot; not much else knowledge to go on.

Este manga lo empecé en el año 2009 y casi diez años después, así estoy, fangirleando a muerte con la historia.
El primer tomo, al igual que todos los demás, me lo habré leído unas tropecientas veces.
Me sé todas las escenas y diálogos de memoria y es que...para mi, es una obra maestra del manga.
Este 1º tomo es bastante introductorio y el dibujo de Isayama es bastante pobre en comparación a como dibuja ahora pero la historia consigue atraparnos hasta límites insospechados.
Para mi, imprescindible de la vida.(Iré comentando uno a uno los tomos e igual publico reseña en los blogs^^)
Since one of the Goodreads Graphic Novel nominees this year was Attack on Titan, Vol. 16 (I think), I thought I would check this out.
A post-apocalyptic story about the remaining human race, confined to a walled area for a century to protect itself from Titans that once devastated the planet.
50 meter walls that the Titans cannot reach, but there's a larger one out there, and folks are going to have to do something about this.
But if it gets nominated for awards at volume 16, does it get better and clearer and more interesting?
Or is that just a commentary on the typical Goodread nominations and awards?
صحنۀ خراب شدن دیوار یه وحشت عجیبی داشت. کل داستان، مقدمه چینی بود برای اون صحنه. یعنی منِ خواننده تا اون موقع، دیگه کاملاً می دونستم که چقدر آرامش توی شهر مهم و در عین حال متزلزله، و چه موجودات مهیبی هستن تایتان ها، و وقتی واقعه اتفاق افتاد، اهمیت و وحشتش رو کاملاً درک کردم.فکر کنم این طور حساب شده مقدمه چینی کردن و آماده کردن منِ خواننده، نیاز به مهارت زیادی داره.
They were all useful at some point in the story, some played major part despite being side characters (Reiner, Berthold, Grisha and Krista), some were so complex and with flaws (Erwin, Grisha, Ymir) and even antagonists were a bit likeable.
Some characters:  Actually, I didn't hate Eren like most of people do, even though he is a bit annoying with his anger issues and reckless behaviors.
I, on the other hand, found Mikasa a bit boring, despite being badass soldier, she seemed to have lack of personality.
He was like Mikasa-badass but boring personality-wise.
Io lo amo troppo!
Manga animesi kadar güzel gelmedi. Aksiyon sahnelerini izlemek okumaktan daha keyifli. Yine de izlerken spoiler yememek için animenin önüne geçene kadar okuyacağım. .d.d
That may not make much sense if you haven't seen Neon Genesis Evangelion (something of a badge of honour and a trope/trauma codifier series when it comes to subconscious-tapping secrets being uncovered in the course of a desperate struggle against a powerful but to initial appearances mindless foe), but this might give you a bit of an idea (still sends a chill down my spine)-http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0kFhPV...Disturbing, but also a fascinating turn for shounen manga- the anime, if successful, might (hopefully- given other recent successes like the new Hunter x Hunter) encourage studios to return to more serious manga-based work rather than continue to indulge in the largely light novel based 'moe' craze.In Shingeki no Kyojin it's as though the author combined the lately very popular zombie genre with giants from Norse mythology (despite the rendering 'Titans').
That was sooo good! I knew I would enjoy it but HOLY SHIT!!
RTC. Might drop my rating to 2 stars.
