https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/104160.Day_Watch
2014:  *** The reasons why I will never read another one of Lukyanenko's books are at the bottom of this review ***  ----------2013: Unless you happen to be a chessmaster in the neverending chess game of life, you are nothing but a pawn to be sacrificed when the strategy demands it.  "The game is eternal; only the time the figures spend on the checkered board is finite." It really doesn't matter which side in the war you belong to because each will sacrifice its expendable pawns in the pursuit o
Night Watch had its fair share of moral greyness and ambiguity, showing that the distinctions between the Light and the Dark are not as obvious as their names suggest; underscoring how even the 'good guys', especially those with power, will not hesitate to manipulate and use their followers to get what they want.
What was different about this book is that the said pawns have no misconceptions about their leaders' lack of hesitance about reaching their goals regardless of the costs.
This book continues the story, weaving in threads from the previous book while creating a whole 'nother cluster fuck for the characters involved.
(Kristin, I think you'd really like her part in everything.) The second part is told be a powerful magician who is suffering a bit of amnesia.
The third part is told by the magician Edgar, the temporary stand in for the extremely powerful, 'vacationing" head of the Daywatch.
He himself is not that powerful by any means, so he is trying to figure out why the hell he was called to Moscow.
well done!FUCKING GOOD STORY!
I found this book of the Watch series really hard to get into.I suppose because Lukyanenko's morose and realistic writing was great for Night Watch but was totally depressing and frustrating in Day Watch. There's only so much human weakness, moral reasoning and realistically bad endings I can take, okay! I'm a natural optimist! It gets to me!Ah! Much better!It was still well written. The characters were still great. Lukyanenko is still absolutely brilliant. Sometimes though, I want to live in dream land where everything is great and the good guys always win.
3.5 stars
*İlk kitaptaki kaos dolu diyaloglar devam ediyor ama biraz iyileşme var. Bu da anlaşılabillik açısından çok daha kolay bir öykü zinciri oluşturmuş. Bu sefer dünyadan zevk almaya çalışan, önce ben diyen grup olan Karanlık Varlık'ların bakışından anlatılan bir roman var.**İlk hikayede bizim aptal ama gittikçe zekileşen Aydınlık Varlık olan karakterimizi görmeyince afalladım. Fakat ilerledikçe Gündüz Nöbeti'nin hikayesi Gece Nöbeti'ne bağlama işini çok iyi kotarmış. Entrikanın, kaosun, aşkın, büyünün karmaşık bir anlatıda başarılı şekilde karıştırıldığı ve çözümlendiği bir romandı.
Second book in the series, featuring the ongoing struggle between "the dark" and "the light." Like the first book, it is told in a series of three interwoven stories, but the changing narrative styles are somewhat hard to follow.
Much of the book describes the battle between these forces, and the two organizations established to monitor their actions: The Night Watch, which is staffed by Light Magicians (virtuous), and the Day Watch, which is staffed by Dark Magicians (freedom-loving libertarians.) At the center is a treaty, drawn to restrict the use of magic and to license the activities of vampires, werewolves and other creatures.
(There was a time when this series would have been published as a nanology not a trilogy.) The Nightwatch had a somewhat unsettling habit of switching from the first person perspective of Anton, Nightwatch Agent, to a third person perspective whenever the author felt the need to describe events Anton was not witness to.
The first story in the volume switches to a first person perspective of a character encountered briefly a number of times in the previous volume - and she is from the Day Watch.
All this switching around is a little distracting and detracting....The witch Alisa, protagonist of the first story in the present volume is not a likable character (downright unpleasant, in my view) and I'm confident she is not meant to be.
The first two parts of this were exciting and full of mysteries and 5 star stories.
I loved the two characters in the first two parts, I was constantly engaged in where they were going and how it related to the overall story.
The last piece to the overall book felt like an overly complicated courtroom drama without the drama.
3.5 stars rounded up because Russian authors always have a slightly different perspective than western authors that I enjoy.I didn't enjoy it enough to immediately start reading the next one although I own it.
It's funny because it isn't as if the story contained anything that I haven't encountered in other books and it definitely isn't because it is told from the dark point of view.
Several times each was judging the other for the very same thing while thinking, "Just like a Light/Dark Other..." In this story we also hear about how Inquisitors see things and it was an interesting contrast to the Others.Day Watch uses these engrossing stories to examine good, evil, love, and sacrifice, continuing the themes found in Night Watch.
Please Note: Read and reviewed in 2007.My Synopsis; In this, the 2nd book of the Others' series, we are again treated to three separate, yet intertwining stories: first, the young Dark witch Alisa loses her powers in a struggle over an illegally practicing Dark witch and is sent to Artek (the most elite of the camps for the Young Pioneers during the Soviet era) to regain her strength.
Hodnocení: 3,5/5Denní hlídka mi přišla o trochu slabší než předchozí díl Noční hlídka. Chybělo mi v ní víc akce, ironického humoru a taky pořádný nečekaný zvrat a velkolepé závěrečné vyvrcholení. Přesto se těším na třetí díl Šerá hlídka, protože série Noční hlídka pořád patří v žánru urban fantasy k tomu nejlepšímu, co můžete najít.Celou recenzi si můžete přečíst zde: http://www.suzannesworldofbooks.cz/cl...
Sećam se samo da mi je bila vrlo zabavna dok sam čitala... i ničeg više. To me, doduše, ne sprečava da pročitam i poslednji nastavak u serijalu, već samo da knjizi dam veću ocenu od 'dopala mi se'.
Maybe it would've been more interesting if the plot was told from more POVs, just like in the third part of the book.I still can't tell Semyon from Garik, or Ilya from Ignat, but I know I like all of them, lol.
The point is, all of these characters deserved more chapters or POVs, instead romance is central to the plot - Alisa and Igor who had tragic and "epic" love story based on ONE GOOD SEX and one day of getting to know each other.
Where is this going... I feel like something big is being set up Also when did they get married?
All the best characters are back, including some new ones that totally blow you away.
This is basically a continuation of the first book.
I was a little disappointed it did not continue with the main character from book one...but after I got past that I LOVED IT!
It was refreshing to see how the dark ones went about their business.
Not as interesting a conclusion as in the first one but I think that was mainly because of the set up for the third book.
I think that was intended, though.
I loved Alisa :'(This book is like 10 times more sad then the 1st.But i loved it!
Man, Dark ones are like THIS.
The political maneuverings and plannings and the majority of the male characters are what made me finish this book (although I still find myself regarding Anton, our hero, with real indifference).What I would like to ban this author from: any attempts at romance.
Let me emphasize that a book doesn't have to contain romance to make me like it (please see my undying love for Ian Rankin and Terry Pratchett, although both of them are capable of doing better romance than this).
Like, really in love.
But I'm not going to rush out to find Book Three, let me put it that way.
This sequel to The Night Watch is structured into three stories just like Day Watch.
The whole concept of the Light and the Dark not being bad but different life choices is explored futher and Lukyanenko writing the Day Watch shows no partiality.
The stories take loyal Day Watch members that are in the higher ranks from being pawns who follow orders and force them into positions they must grow and see the more complex picture of the war between the Light and the Dark.
It's a different perspective of Dark.If you enjoyed Night Watch I think you will enjoy Day Watch.
I like how this series blends mythology, legend, science and religion--probably because I have a tendency to never thoroughly dismiss any of these as a possibility for explaining the world.
Reading it one gets the sense that there is an undiscovered layer to be explored, like an onion.
Instead of a plot twist, this just takes each book in the series to another layer of understanding--about human nature, about our desires and attempts to wrestle with morality and the greater good while getting what we need to live.
By the end, we don't really know why what's happened, has happened--only that it wasn't what we thought.
Instead of shifting perspectives exclusively to the activities and inner-working of the Day Watch, this novel continued with the narrations and activities of the Night Watch members...which were given plenty of coverage in the first novel, I feel.The third and final portion of the book brought together the stories portrayed in the first two parts, which completely redeemed the novel in my mind and formed a very high opinion of this book in relation to the whole series thus far.
Moral ambiguities are further explored, and the nature of good, evil, and everything in between protrayed.This book was indeed amazing...and frustrating, and deeply sad as well.
This was a fun 300 page book.
Like "Night Watch," "Day Watch" introduces us to magicians, shape-shifters, and vampires that must mind the crossing of t's and dotting of i's in magical law in order to keep a treaty between the powers of light and dark so that a conflagration at best or apocalypse at worst can be avoided.
There is always a way around pro forma, however, and the plot derives from the loopholes found, alternately, by the light and dark powers.
Add another 100 pages of "if-then" scenarios by various magicians, and you have simulated the experience of reading this book.
They are chess games within chess games mixing history, politics, social engineering, mythology, and all sorts of other good things.The second story of the three was a little long and drawn out, but everything comes together.
I did have some fun trying to figure out who Vitaly was.Lukyanenko continues his meditation on the nature of "good" and "evil" through the détante of the Watches as overseen by the Inquisition.
She was an unrepentant Dark Witch, but she knew who she was and she knew how to love.I can't wait to read the next one and I hope the continue with the films as well, even though they change quite a bit.
In this interesting sequel to the book, Nightwatch, the epic battle between light and dark has a curious sort of beaurocracy to it.
The forces of Light, the Nightwatch, monitor the forces of Dark while the forces of Dark, the Daywatch, do the same.
In the third, a trial is held in Prague and both a Light Magician and a Dark one begin to suspect that their superiors are up to something.
3.5. Antra dalis pasirodė ne tokia sudėtinga kaip pirma, bet įdomesnė už pirmąją. Keli skyriai pasitaikė ne itin įdomus, bet šiaip visas siužetas ganėtinai įtraukiantis. P.S. Prieš žiūrint filmą - perskaitykit knygą ir tada žiūrėkit. Filmas gerokai skiriasi, todėl nenusiteikit, kad ir knyga bus tokia pat gera ir siurrealistinė kaip ir filmas.

Vähän ensimmäistä kirjaa hidaslukuisempi, ja alkuun vaikutti enimmäkseen joidenkin Yöpartion irrallisten langanpäiden yhteensitomiselta, vaikka tarinat (tässäkin oli kolme periaatteessa itsenäistä kertomusta, kuten ensimmäisessä) sinänsä olivat viihdyttäviä. Kolmas tarina kuitenkin kääntyi yllättävään suuntaan ja nivoi yhteen sekä tämän että edellisen kirjan kuvaamat aiemmat tapahtumat. Hetken aikaa oli jo ilmassa mahdollisuus, että tapahtuisi erittäinkin eeppisiä asioita, mutta lopputulos oli tältäkin pohjalta yllättävä. Jälleen kerran kirjan kolmas tarina sisälsi myös mieleenpainuvan juopottelukohtauksen - ja esiintyihän tässä sivuroolissa jopa neljä suomalaista, joten torilla tavataan!
Olyan rég olvastam már az Éjszakai őrséget, hogy egészen elfelejtettem, ki kivel van. Ennek ellenére fantasztikus élmény volt visszasüllyedni a világba. Ahogy haladtam, jöttek vissza sorra az ismerős karakterek, még akkor is, ha ezúttal a másik oldalon álltunk.http://napifalat.blogspot.hu/2017/10/...
Viihdyttävää nykypäivän fantasiaa ja lisäpisteet viimeisen luvun suomalaishahmoista.
Что-то сложно стало, вроде намудренно загадками и многоходовками, а самого фэнтизи стало нещадно мало.
Soupeření světla a tmy pokračuje! A to v ještě lepší knize než Noční hlídce ❤
