https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/319238.A_Clergyman_s_Daughter
داستانی ست با دنیایی متفاوت و نگارشی ساده تر از هر داستانی که اورول تاکنون نوشته است.
شخصیت اصلی داستان، دختر کشیش (دوروتی) ست؛ که در محیطی خشک، یعنی خانه ی پدر کشیش خویش زندگی می‌کند.
مشکلاتی که دوروتی با آنها دست و پنجه نرم می‌کند (همانند بدهی‌ها و فقر)، تم اصلی داستان است.
دیدگاهی که دوروتی نسبت به کلیسا و مسائل دیگر پیدا می‌کند، کاملاً طبیعی است.
دوروتی در بخشی از داستان اشاره می‌کند، به دلیل اینکه شاهد عشقبازی پدر و مادرش بوده، از آن کار متنفر است، و هرگز نمی‌تواند تحمل کند مردی او را در آغوش بگیرد.
Orwell sharpens his satiric knives in this early novel about Dorothy and her life of perpetual misery living in a backward petit bourgeois town.
Little about life in 1930s England is portrayed with nothing short of sputtering near-hectoring contempt as Dorothy elects to remains a perpetual virgin in her bleak, pointless existence of rubbing down eczema-addled old ladies and raising funds for an ever-collapsing church, trapped until death in a lonely, friendless, and godless universe of crushing isolation, disappointment, poverty, and fear.
Orwell hurts.
هذه الرواية ليست ف جوهرها كما تبدو أبداا من يعرف عالم أورويل جيدا سيتبنى هذا التفسير،،،تعليقى به قدر
Increíble, lo he leído de una !! Me ha encantado sobre todo por que tenía una expectativa dado el autor, pero sorpresa, nada que ver, y una de esas sorpresas que da gusto encontrar. Lo recomiendo mucho.
The episodes themselves are compelling, from the tedium and pointlessness of a small-town clergyman’s daughter’s routine, dodging the village gossips, to hop-picking in Kent with itinerant workers, to teaching in a horrible “fourth-rate” private school under the mercenary Mrs. Creevy, a headmistress who “never read a book right through in her life, and was proud of it.” There is also a remarkable scene, written as dramatic dialogue, of Dorothy spending the night out in Trafalgar Square with a group of tramps.
The characters - Dorothy, a defrocked clergyman, a woman kicked out of the house by her husband, and several others - endure a cold, miserable, hungry night while a policeman repeatedly comes by to remind them to go “home” if they want to sleep.Orwell often appropriates his non-fiction and autobiographical experiences for his novels.
A book to be avoided at all costs if you like Orwell and want to keep thinking he was such a consistently good writer and storyteller. On the other hand, if you hated 1984 in school and are looking for ammunition against him, this book is it. Plus point: the book is very short.

Orwell wanted this novel destroyed after his death. This and Keep The Aspidistra Flying. Oddly, this and Aspidistra are two of my favourite Orwells. It’s a great little book about class and being down and out and basically it’s really Orwellian. A good old fashioned socialist novel. Orwell tries to emulate Joyce in this novel with a whole chapter being in the dramatic form and I personally think it works but it was one of its main criticism when it was released. It makes me sad that I’m nearly the end of Orwell’s bibliography, oh well.
A Note on the Text--A Clergyman's Daughter

Okay, this is truly bizarre. I don't know what Orwell was thinking, or trying to do in those mid sections! Aside from that, it had all the elements you'd expect from his writing, with a tonne of social commentary. Kind of brilliant, kind of a failure. As always, essential reading.

تدور أحداث الرواية حول ابنة القس "دوروثي هير" والتي تعيش مع أبيها القس البخيل وتحاول جاهدة إدارة شؤون المنزل، والقيام بواجباتها المرتبطة بالكنيسة، وإبعاد شبح مطارادات الدائنين عنها قدر الإمكان.
تحت وطأة الضغط النفسي وفي ظروف غامضة تفقد دوروثي ذاكرتها وتجد نفسها فجأة في لندن وسط المتسولين: بلا مأوى ولا مال ولاشيء على الإطلاق سوى مستوى تعليمها الجيد ومسحة من أثر نعمة طافت يوما على وجهها.
شيئا فشيئا ترجع لها ذاكرتها وتعود إلى حياتها السابقة بعد فترة بعد أن ذاقت حصتها من حياة البؤس والشقاء.الأهم  في القصة ليس هو البؤس والعوز والحرمان الجسدي الذي تعرضت له دوروثي بل الأهم هو التغير في إيمانها الذي اضمحل وقراراتها فيما يتعلق بالإفصاح عن هذا التغيير أو كتمانه.
- a teacher named "Strong" who "failed" - me likey the use of language- Orwell can write, and write GOOD, other things than political brochures and dystopian worlds of doom and pain - it's sad that this had to be censored, would've loved to read the original version of thisi'll finish it soon and come back with a full review!final reviewi must confess.
i have this weird habbit, ever since i was about 8 or 9 years old, to read out loud the scenes of a book that i really like, and to do the same thing to the last like 30 pages of it.
رواية من العيار الثقيل تفضح فساد المجتمع الانجليزي في ذلك الوقت ، رواية مميزة استمتعت بها
بعد از قلعه حیوانات و 1984 کتاب سومی بود که از اورول میخواندم و انتظارم شاهکاری مثل دو کتاب قبلی بود که برآورده نشد. شخصیت اصلی این داستان از اعتقاد کامل به بی اعتقادی میرسد و هیچ دلیل قانع کننده ای برای این بی اعتقادی ندارد. به نظرم حتی ازینکه به بی اعتقادی رسیده دچار عذاب وجدان هم هست!
کتاب عالی مخصوصا لحظه انتخاب بین برگشتن به زندگی قبل یا ازدواج خیلی خوب توصیف شده بود
This is like a parody of a parody of a parody of a parody of life.
I understand why Orwell hated this book himself and didn't want it to be published. I read the first 20 pages and it's so boring and meh that I decided to dnf it. Maybe I will try in the future, but who knows.
Ha sido mi primer acercamiento a George Orwell y he acabado gratamente sorprendida.Mi reseña: http://contandoteunlibro.blogspot.com...
اورويل في هذه الرواية يقوم بتغطية مفهوم الاستبداد والظلم وتسلط الدين الكنّسي على الحياة الاجتماعية باسلوبه القصصي الكئيب المليء بالسواد
Orwell bu romamında küçük bir kasaba papazının kızı olan Dorothy üzerinden, İngiltere hayatına bakıyor ve o zamanlar yaşayan bir kadının penceresinden inanç, yaşam tarzı gibi bir çok şeyi okura sunuyor ve bu sırada bir çok konuya değinerek hem eleştirisini yapıyor hem de son kararı okura bırakıyor.  Papazın Kızı Orwell'in diğer kitaplarından biraz farklı, bu kitapta kimliği çok belirgin değil, diğer eserlerinde ki özgün tarafından bir nebze yoksun. Ortaya çıkan iyi bir roman olmuş, ben sadece daha Orwell vari olsun isterdim, yazarla tanışmak için iyi bir referans olmasa da tanıdıktan sonra okumak için daha uygun.
I am an obsessive - although not indiscriminate - collector of something: books.Now, my problem with George Orwell is that I liked, if not adored, all that I read by him, which is pretty much all that the man wrote.
It's admirable that George Orwell put himself in the shoes of a woman, Dorothy Hare, for the first (and last) time in his career as a novelist.
يعرف معظم القراء أورويل من خلال "مزرعة الحيوانات" و"1984" (التي لم أقرأها بعد للأسف)، لذا فإن روايته هذه قد تبدو للوهلة الأولى منتمية لجنس أدبي مغاير، بعدم تطرقها للسياسة تصريحا أو تلميحا؛ غير أنها، بعد مطالعتها، لا تخرج عن الإطار العام لروايتي أورويل الشهيرتين، ألا وهو النقد اللاذع، لكنه هنا نقد للمنظومة الإجتماعية، حيث ينتقد: العائلة، الدين / الكنيسة، الطبقية الإجتماعية، الريف / المدينة، والنظام التعليميتعيش بطلة الرواية "دوروثي" في الريف، مع أب أرمل بخيل رجعي متزمت وغير مسؤول، في قرية صغيرة لا يتجاوز عدد سكانها الألفي نسمة، في نهاية عشرينات أو بداية ثلاثينات القرن العشرين.
This is the first time I’ve read Orwell and even though A Clergyman’s Daughter is not one of his acclaimed works (that reputation being reserved for  Animal Farm and 1984) I greatly enjoyed reading this book.
The story is set in 1930s England, at the time of Great Depression, and follows the life of Dorothy Hare, the daughter of a parish Clergyman.
One day, she suddenly finds herself in unfamiliar surroundings, realising that she has lost her memory and here follows a series of events which ultimately lead her to lose her Christian faith.After reading the novel, I realise that the novel's plot can only be best described as 'dull and ambiguous', but the book is almost unputdownable, I finished it in a day and I hardly ever manage this kind of feat!
I cannot believe this is considered one of his "weaker" works.
It is an absolute masterpiece.This work is mesmerizing, intimate, psychologically complex and structurally unusual.
I cannot really understand what aspect of it is so affecting, but there is something about it that stays with you once you finish.
Its one of those works that has the ability to change, you were one person before you read it, and now perhaps you are another.
They are not necessarily similar works but they both touch on faith and the loss of it, and the way that that event is described in this novel is devastating, and heartbreaking but incredibly accurate.
تدور أحداث الرواية حول ابنة قس في قرية صغيرة ، تدور حياتها حول الكنيسة وأعمال الخير وقلب المسيح ولكنها تتعرض لصدمة عصبية تفقد على إثرها الذاكرة وتضيع وتتشرد وتتسول ، وعندما تعود لها الذاكرة ترجع إلى قريتها وتعمل كمدرسة في مدرسة داخلية ولكنها تفقد كل الثوابت التي كانت تؤمن بها يوماً ما ..جورج أورويل من أفضل الكتاب الذين يتحدثون عن الإيمان، الكفر، التشرد، الضياع، تغير الثوابت وكل هذه الأشياء التي من الصعب وصفها في تلك الحياة ..
أهتم أورويل كثيراً ببطلة القصة وكل التفاصيل والعناصر المحيطة بها لأنه يؤمن تماماً أن هذه العناصر هي التي تساعد في بناء الرواية أورويل كاتب رائع بكل المقاييس ، يستطيع أن يسحرك ويدخلك إلى عالمه في بضع صفحات صغيرة ..

Of course, this isn't a well-known or famous one since it's George Orwell's first novel, in other words, his literary debut first published in 1935.In brief, it's a story of a young woman, Dorothy senselessly intimidated by her father, who is tolerant towards his attitude and helps him as a dutiful daughter amidst financial and psychological hardships.
Therefore, both of them need to find their ways out and Dorothy's faith leads her to London and thus can live her own life there.I like Orwell's style of writing and narrations as well as good dialogs, for instance:1.
At times he does seem to forget that he is writing fiction and starts going off at a tangent as if it is an essay - but no admirer of Orwell will mind that!The opening chapter is especially strong, showing the heroine, Dorothy, struggling with her life made up of small humiliations as daughter of a tyrannical vicar who is mean with money and leaves her constantly worrying over how to pay household bills.
But, that apart, I think it is a good novel, including wonderful descriptions of hop-picking, begging and teaching at a small private school which are clearly drawn from Orwell's own experience.
