https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10217.Death_in_Kashmir
Although none had the world-wide impact of her later novel, The Far Pavilions (1978), she was happy to be able to contribute to the family finances.From my perspective, M.
M. Kaye, those of us familiar with her later novels will experience the same magic through her words that we enjoyed in Shadow of the Moon, Trade Wind, and The Far Pavilions.
M. Kaye’s series of mystery novels will be like enjoying a world cruise - from the comfort of my living room!
The mystery is a good one: the mastermind criminal is well-drawn and well-hidden (I didn't guess who it was), and the clues and pieces are tied together at the end in a satisfying way.Death in Kashmir is a light mystery novel, not terribly deep, but good fun, and there's a great sense of place, with wonderful descriptions of the people and places in Kashmir.
Unfortunately, those dreams never came to fruition, but I am thankful that I can continue to enjoy such journeys second-hand.Death in Kashmir is one of six mysteries in Kaye’s “Death in…” series.
Taking place just before the end of British rule in India, the setting is sumptuous, ranging from the snowy ski slopes of Gulmarg in Kashmir, to the dining rooms and ballrooms of Peshawar, and on to the lakeshores near Srinagar.
A horror of the enormous, sun-baked land around her and the barren Khyber hills that lay just beyond Peshawar, menacing and mysterious in the starlight.
"Death in Kashmir" may be considered one of her 'lesser' works when compared with the monumental historical epics "The Far Pavilions" or "Shadow of the Moon" (it is in fact her debut novel), but her storytelling talent, her enduring love for the subcontinent and her romantic inclinations are already present in this 'divertimento' that combines a whodunit with Cold War espionage, comedy with romance.
Mrs. Kaye's decision to set her debut story in her beloved Kashmir is understandable ('Write about what you know best' is a solid advice to new authors), given her family history of military service in India.
the reason i picked this one up is because i have an unexplainable affinity to that particular time in India (also because i love reading about MURDER).(3) the rest of the novel is, as mentioned, quite light - typical mysterious motivations, typical long middle (chock-full of very enjoyable details of the time & place), typical ramping up of the action in the last third, typical romance with a typically mysterious young gent who is full of potential derring-do on our intrepid heroine's behalf...
So glad I read this in daylight.
I have to say, of all the wonderful suspense authors, M.M. Kaye is my favorite, surpassing Mary Stewart, even.
(don't get mad at me, Mary Stewart fans!) Up at a ski resort in Kashmir, things are going down hill.
On a still, moonlight night Sarah sees someone sawing through a window latch and goes to warn her fellow skier.
What she learns from this one night of watchfulness in Kashmir will follow her to The Waterwitch houseboat on a lake near Srinagar.
Just Read it!
Just Read it!
Another brilliant mystery by M M Kaye, one that kept me biting my fingernails from start to finish.What could be more suspenseful than a dark and stormy skiing vacation in the hills of Kashmir, where skiers are meeting with mysterious "accidents" on the slopes...And when the scene shifts to a lake at the base of the mountains and our heroine takes over the lease of a murder victim's houseboat, little does she know what deadly riddle is hidden in those rooms...I loved this.
I loved the "edge of your seat" suspense.
The skiing and the houseboats.
My very favorite of M.M. Kaye's 6 " Death in... " murder mysteries, and quite possibly my favorite whodunit of all time. While her mysteries haven't the same scope and reach of her 3 masterpieces (The Far Pavillions, Shadow of the Moon and Trade Wind), they are nonetheless well researched, beautifully described, and endowed with snippets of Kaye's own experiences in the countries that she lived in during her childhood and/or her married life.This outing takes the reader to Kashmir, 1947. British
While her mysteries haven't the same scope and reach of her 3 masterpieces (The Far Pavillions, Shadow of the Moon and Trade Wind), they are nonetheless well researched, beautifully described, and endowed with snippets of Kaye's own experiences in the countries that she lived in during her childhood and/or her married life.This outing takes the reader to Kashmir, 1947.
Chapter One opens to what I consider one of the most suspenseful introductions I've ever read in a mystery, and takes the reader on a journey through the snow capped slopes of Gulmarg to the lush, lovely lake region of Srinagar; to a houseboat with many secrets.A riveting, engrossing and beautifully detailed mystery from beginning to end.
We have a dozen or so possible suspects.
The whodunit is well served but what was superior upon this novel, far more than the plot was the tension.
Possibly because so many red flags were set into other directions that it was nearly by elimination.
But I though there was another accomplice and about that I was incorrect.Great break from the dysfunctional young whodunits or stabber novels of our current decade- these singles in this period are never in the cognition of a "poor me, our group has been put upon" or "where can I hide" mode.
I read M.M. Kaye when I was in my teens, first picking up The Far Pavilions, and then stumbling on these mysteries later.
This one was originally published in 1953, so it is a bit later than those, but hits a lot of the same marks.M.M. Kaye lived a wildly interesting life, born in Simla, India to British parents during the period of the British Raj. Her husband was in the British Army, and she "followed the drum" to Kenya, Zanzibar, Egypt, Cyprus and Germany.
If you mashed up Victoria Holt and Helen Macinnes, and set in India, you might get this book.
Retro Read Group BOTM April 15 -May 15, 2017.This story takes place in the last gasp of the British Raj and is my first read of M.M. Kaye's, 7 or 8 mysteries.
All of these take place in exotic locations, this one in Kashmir.Two murders take place when a ski-club comprised of British expat's take a trip to enjoy the slopes.M.M. Kaye'S powers of description are amazing!
I feel I "know" these people in this story because of her formidable writing skill.The mystery itself was excellent because I could not figure out who the murderer was.
This was a very well put together mystery with the added bonus of an exotic setting as we're used to getting from MM Kaye. Beginning at the ski trip where two women die under mysterious circumstances that end up with a heroine involved all kinds of mystery and intrigue. Added bonus for the author's notes and how she included a tiny mention of herself while her family was living in Kashmir.
Murder, intrigue and just a small touch of romance follow as the action moves to a houseboat named Waterwitch on Dal Lake near Srinagar.As usual, MM Kaye describes the area so well.
To me personally, this book brought back many memories of summers spent on a houseboat on that same Dal Lake, as well as skiing near Gulmarg and camping in the hills above Srinagar in those huge old army tents that were so popular.
I am sure I still have one or two of those Kashmiri paper mache boxes that MM Kaye describes so well and was integral to this mystery.
Kaye certainly knows how to write, and her upbringing in India lends legitimacy to how she paints her scenes in this one.
There's a very short list of authors (women, mostly) who wrote excellent books grouped mostly in the thriller-suspense-murder mystery-mild romance genre.
Kaye, Mary Stewart (Moonspinners, Touch not the Cat, etc), Helen MacInnes...I've run out of names.
M. Kaye is in good company.
She writes in what I think is a deceptively difficult genre to write.
Lord knows there are a lot of dreadful books written in that one.
At any rate, I heartily recommend this book.
This is one of my most loved books. It's true that I have read deeper books with more substance, even in the mystery genre. But M.M. Kaye wrote a top notch mystery for her time. She truly transports the reader to Kashmir, I could feel the house boat rocking as I was turning the pages. The ending came as a complete surprise and was absolutely stunning. Yes, it is a light novel, but hey, isn't it entertainment we want from mysteries?
Just the right level of suspense. Didn't guess the villain ahead of time. Really enjoyed the writing style and pacing of the book, that is until the wrap up. I felt like too much time was spent on explaining the motive and highlighting the evils of certain political ideologies. I would have liked more of that time spent on what happened to all characters outside of just who was guilty and who was innocent.
This is a re-read of a book I read in my twenties.
I loved it then, and I still love it.
Kaye paints a picture of 1947 Kashmir that makes one wish it still existed in that way, instead of the war-torn place it has become.
The mystery is a good old-fashioned whodunit, and the heroine is very likable (unlike some heroines in the romantic-suspense genre, who are annoying).
I read several M.
M. Kayes way back when, and having picked several up in a used bookstore, I'll continue to revisit her when I need nostalgia and comfort in my reading.
This book originally put Kashmir on my bucket list. Kaye is an excellent writer and this book is a solid mystery with some real moments of terror. It also recalls a forgotten period in history namely the last days of the British Raj.
Sarah Parrish is one of many British subjects taking advantage of one last chance to visit the skiing playground in the mountains near the Vale of Kashmir.
Little does she know that among her fellow vacationers are spies and counter-spies all seeking information vital to fate of Kashmir and India post-empire.
Yes, there is a feeling of danger surrounding our heroine, but we read about it with a nod and wink, knowing that she's going to come through the danger even though all of her fellow vacationers may not be so lucky.
Kaye is also superb at describing the time and place.
I wish I could see Kashmir as this book puts it down! Not to mention all the strange British types lurking about. The book was begun in Detroit Metro Airport, finished on CalTrain somewhere between San Francisco and Palo Alto. A great 6 hour read, now on to more MM Kaye, and back to revisit some Agatha Christie and Sherlock Holmes, that I have neglected for too long.... Thank you, Lucy:D
3.5/5I really enjoyed this one but the last half had too many things which jarred for me and diminished the overall effect.Good suspense but I felt the heroine was a little dim on certain things.
M.M. Kaye was born in India and spent much of her life traveling the world with her husband who was with the British Embassy.
She is best known for The Far Pavilions and wrote a number of mysteries set in exotic locales.
The descriptions of the settings in this mystery are one of the highlights.
The action takes place during the time of the British Raj, which Kaye knew well.
The young heroine is a more sophisticated version of Nancy Drew.
There is the requisite handsome man--should he be trusted or not?
The action moves swiftly and the ending is just exactly what you want.
Delightful. As M. M. Kaye's writing invariably is delightful, this does not surprise. The dialogue is smart and witty, the hero and heroine glamorous, the murder mystery spine-chilling, and the setting a feast for the senses. Sarah Parrish and Charles Mallory are are not my favorites among Kaye's characters as they are less fully realized than others; still, there are some rather smashing moments of dialogue, particularly between Sarah and the villain, and there is wonderful sexual tension between Sarah and Charles largely as the result of that elegant, understated, 40s-era banter of which Kaye is a mastermind!
I really liked this mystery set in India at the end of British Raj. In addition to being a suspenseful murder mystery with an ending I didn't predict, it is an all-around well written book.
The author spent much of her life in India, and it shows in the vivid descriptions of the scenery, which I found to be captivating.
They made me wish I could see the places I was reading about!
All in all this was a very enjoyable read and I plan on picking up the others in the series.
The storyline is a bit ponderous and the characters are rather stereotypical. Set in Kashmir towards the end of the British rule in India, this is a book which demonstrates the arrogance and elitist attitudes of the time. There were some enchanting descriptive passages and overall it was readable but for me it was rather disappointing.
Scary but interesting. When I think of this I think of the skiing and I see the still night with moon light creating dark shadows and someone scratching at the back window next door. REading about the British Empire as it was fading is also interesting.
This mystery turned out to be a little too spy-intensive for me. However, I really enjoyed the setting, in the last year of the British Raj in India. Kaye writes with a real appreciation for the natural beauty of the ski slopes and life in the houseboats. She is largely dismissive of the Indians, though, but no worse than most upper class Brits for the invisible lower classes. I also enjoyed that the main character was strong and smart (for the most part). So I ended up liking it despite the lack of mystery and pseudo espionage feeling to it.
Good job on the suspense! And on keeping the villain under wraps till the big reveal. I was wrong in my suspicion of whom it was; I am happy to report that it wasn't as obvious as I thought it was going to be.
An old fashioned whodunit, set in Kashmir at the very end of British rule.
Set in India, after it has been announced that the British will be leaving (and after WWII), but before they have actually pulled out; the state of the world (and the Cold War) are integral to the story, though our characters never leave India.
Mrs. Kaye actually lived in India for a time, and her passion for the country (and for proper pronunciation!) keep the story feeling very authentic (some of the British behaviors toward the locals is rather sad, but I'm guessing also very accurate).
