https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10262893-alai-osai
பொனனியின செலவன மறறும சிவகமியின சபதம படிதது விடடு அதே எதிரபாரபுடன அலை ஓசை படிததால ஏமாறறமே மிஞசும ! ஆமை வேகததில கதை நகரகிறது ! இநதிய சுதநதிரம பெறற காலகடடததை மையமாக வைதது எழுதபபடட கதை எனற ஒரே காரணததிரககாத வாஙகிய புததகம !தாரினியை தவிர மறற அனைதது கத பாததிரஙகளும மனதில நிறக தவருகினறனர (சீதா , சூரயா , ராகவன உடபட ) பல இடஙகளில 'உச' கொடட வைககினறது ! flashback வரும பகுதிகள மடடும கலகியின யூஷுவல நாவலகல ரகம ! காநதியவாதியான கலகியே காநதியின தவறுகளை சுடடி காடடுகிறார ! (ராகவன - சூரயா சமபாஷனைகள ) இதறகாக கலகிககு ஓர
பொன்னியின் செல்வன் மற்றும் சிவ்கமியின் சபதம் படித்து விட்டு அதே எதிர்பார்புடன் அலை ஓசை படித்தால் ஏமாற்றமே மிஞ்சும் ! ஆமை வேகத்தில் கதை நகர்கிறது ! இந்திய சுதந்திரம் பெற்ற காலகட்டத்தை மையமாக வைத்து எழுதப்பட்ட கதை என்ற ஒரே காரணத்திர்க்காத வாங்கிய புத்தகம் !தாரினியை தவிர மற்ற அனைத்து கத பாத்திரங்களும் மனதில் நிற்க தவருகின்றனர் (சீதா , சூர்யா , ராகவன் உட்பட ) பல இடங்களில் 'உச்' கொட்ட வைக்கின்றது ! flashback வரும் பகுதிகள் மட்டும் கல்கியின் யூஷுவல் நாவல்கல் ரகம் ! காந்தியவாதியான கல்கியே காந்தியின் தவறுகளை சுட்டி காட்டுகிறார் ! (ராகவன் - சூர்யா சம்பாஷனைகள் ) இதற்காக கல்கிக்கு ஓர் சலாம் !கதையயை வேகமாக நகர்த்தி இருக்கலாம் ! 'ஆலை ஓசை ' சுமார் ரக நாவல்கள் லிஸ்டில் சேர்த்து கொள்ளலாம் !
This was the book from which i learned that nobody is perfect.We shouldn't judge people from any single incident.People's reaction to given situation would always be based on their current mental and emotional status.
A typical Kalki special. The epic drama beautifully portrays the mood of the nation during Independence. His devotion towards Gandhi is shown through many characters created with usual Kalki touch. Every character lives with you showing wide range of emotion. Kalki's brilliance is in creating these real life characters. The book starts off joyfully, takes a slow ride in the middle, and ends in an emphatic fashion! To borrow my friend's words, 'Always expect the unexpected with Kalki..!!'
kalki's favourite book among his all
மிகவும சாதரண குடுமபக கதைதான. கதைகளை சொலலும விதததிலதான எழுததாளன ஜெயிககிறான. மறறவரகளுககாக அலலது வாசகரகளுககாக இபபடிததான கதை அமையவேணடும எனற முன யோசனை இலலாமல எழுதும கதைகளே எனறும நிலைதது நினற கதைகளாயிருககினறன. ஒரு சாதரண கதையை அசாதாரணமாக சொலலும வலிமை கலகியைத தவிர வேறு யாருககும இலலை எனபது எனனுடைய ஆழநத நமபிககை.
மிகவும் சாதரண குடும்பக் கதைதான். கதைகளை சொல்லும் விதத்தில்தான் எழுத்தாளன் ஜெயிக்கிறான். மற்றவர்களுக்காக அல்லது வாசகர்களுக்காக இப்படித்தான் கதை அமையவேண்டும் என்ற முன் யோசனை இல்லாமல் எழுதும் கதைகளே என்றும் நிலைத்து நின்ற கதைகளாயிருக்கின்றன. ஒரு சாதரண கதையை அசாதாரணமாக சொல்லும் வலிமை கல்கியைத் தவிர வேறு யாருக்கும் இல்லை என்பது என்னுடைய ஆழ்ந்த நம்பிக்கை.
since kalki came out of his comfort zone like ponniyin selvan, sivagaamiyin sabatham where he portrays about the history of kings and their circumstances it may look weird to many people to read the story of nextdoor persons however this is also a cultclassic novel from kalki where he portrays about the patrision of india and aftermath of the patrison and the charactrs involved in it
Kalki's one of the master piece i believe.. kalki's story never ends it keep going like the life... altogether it's a nice read.especially last hundred pages resolved all the conflicts raised from the beginning of the novel
An Independence era novel set with a tryst of the fate of a beautiful bit confused young woman.
Simply Awesome. I like this Novel than Ponniyin Selvan.
The other creations of respected writer Kalki is based on imagination, while this book enrolled the reality of human life. Especially in depicting human feelings and emotions.
I came to know about this book when i started looking for Sahitya academy wining tamil books.
Talent story telling that kalki has so great that i even started living with those characters when i read the book.
His excellence in writing in so high, you will start visualizing, be it PS or Alai Osai.
Luckily, i read this before Ponniyin selvan (PS).
Most of the people would have read it after PS.
In this book, Kalki even references about Dinosaurs and lot of other things.
He tells us that how Mahathma influenced lives of common indian women & men then.A very good book that mustn't be missed.
Kalki proves that he is one of the best story tellers over and over again. Never a dull moment. Thoroughly enjoyable read. The characters portrayed, their problems and their various thoughts and confusions are too real to think of them as part of a work of fiction. It is very easy to relate to every character and it's varying emotions over time. Overall, without a doubt, a classic that will stand the test of time.
This is a family story. It was woven around history of Indian Independence and religious riots happened during Partition of Pakistan. We can't expect it to be as thrilling and interesting as Sivagamiyin sabatham and Ponniyin selvan. But those who enjoy visualizing the history rather reading it as a dry information arranged in sequence of time would enjoy this book
The only book of Kalki I didn't like. A good example of picking something to read which is above your age of understanding. Kalki considered this to be his best work. In retrospect the story was modern and not historical woven around the time of Indian independence detailing changing outlook and behaviour of its protagonists. A literary work
This book establishes a well know fact that Kalki is a ardent devotee of Gandhi. Though some of the thoughts expressed by Kalki in the words of Raghavan(and in some places by Surya) against Gandhi are true. Reading this Book also makes us realize that the state of the nation never changed since its independence.
This is such a boring book I ever read from Kalki. It took more days to finish. More conflicts, unwanted explanations. I lost thrilling and interesting in this book after read lot of nice books from Kalki.
This book took me more days to finish. It starts slow, moves slow and concludes. The book that won "Sahithya akademi" award. The early days of independent India was expressed way too good. A Good try.
Nice Book... It reflects the confusion and conclusion occurs in every person's mind in every situation. The maximum words in this book are inner thoughts spoken by the person.
Though is an interesting thriller, definitely not upto the level of expectations that I had from this author. But that doesn't make it anything less from a great read.
Very good narration ...No one have explained India in a such a way.more and more unexpected twist in story....very much thrilled reading this book
I Didn't like this story :( it is not more realistic .Simple thread line extended around 800 page.
A completely different from Ponniyin Selvan and Sivagami sabatham. This story evolves around modern India. Fantastic read.
Interested
Seriously, it touched my heart.! Created a greater impact on me.!!
I like this book
