https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/766917.Homer_Price
The very first time I read this book, I was breaking the rules. It was naptime at daycare and like a good little tot, I was supposed to be getting some rest. But my cot was right next to a bookshelf and whenever the coast was clear and the others around me had fallen asleep, I would surreptitiously sneak books off the shelf to read. Homer caught my eye because of the doughnuts- and ever since then I can't eat a doughnut without thinking of him and my stolen book moments.
The illustrations & a first solo book or reading with an adult really make it, though.They're, short, fun, & I enjoyed them as a kid immensely.
The lazy sheriff with his spoonerisms could get old quickly, but I didn't mind them in these stories.
Centerberg is obviously built just to make Homer shine, but it's all in fun.Listening to them as an adult, far removed from the period in which they were written, was even more entertaining in some ways.
Definitely a different time.The last story has modern manufacturing techniques being applied to housing.
I wanted to live in Centerburg when I read this book. I wanted a donut machine. I wanted the book to have more pages. I read it in in a quiet corner of the old Irvington Public Library, curled up in an old, fat leather chair that was hidden from everything else in the world by a wall of books.
He does things today's kids wouldn't dream of doing--like burning leaves, taming a wild skunk as a pet, regularly pumping gas and servicing cars at his dad's service station as well as helping Mom clean the tourist cabins she manages, and running his uncle's diner for an evening, which includes making donuts.
When things go horribly wrong, it's not Homer that gets the blame, but his uncle's love of high-tech gadgets that don't always work.Reading it today, I realise that the stories really aren't about Homer's adventures so much as his interaction with the townfolks.
Homer Price is the title character of a pair of children's books written by Robert McCloskey.
Homer Price was published in 1943, and Centerburg Tales in 1951.And Homer Price and his ability to solve problems are both priceless.There are six stories in this book.1.
"The Case of the Sensational Scent"Homer's pet skunk helps solve a crime.2.
"The Case of the Cosmic Comic"Homer and Freddy meet their comic book hero, the Super-Duper.3.
"Mystery Yarn"Homer's Uncle Telly and the local sheriff are rivals for two things: the hand of a local widow, and the title of World's Greatest String Saver.
One of my favorite books as a children (well, I had a lot of favorite books ... so that isn't much of a claim ... but still!), Homer Price still holds a special place in my heart. It's just so hilarious! :D
Stories extolling midwestern America are about as rare as songs for brown eyed girls, both of which are so ubiquitous we often fail to notice their charm.
Whether it is capturing robbers through the special talents of his pet skunk, Aroma ("The Case of the Sensational Scent"), figuring out how to navigate a doughnut treasure hunt("The Doughnuts"), noticing Miss Terwilliger's winning strategy ("Mystery Yarn"), or reading up on American folktales to protect the kids of Centerburg ("Nothing new under the Sun - Hardly"), Homer's small town accomplishments will delight young learners and older readers alike.
I saw a doughnut machine at The City Museum in Saint Louis this spring that instantly whisked me into warm memories of this book--memories that belong to childhood, crisp as the donuts bubbling and swirling in the small vat, sweet as the powdered sugar, creamy on my tongue. Who wouldn't want to bestow this memory on their child? Who wouldn't want to return to it in adulthood? That's the test of a good book.
If you think of Opie and his life in Mayberry, you'll get a pretty good idea of what this book is like.
Laughs included.Ages: 7 - 12Cleanliness: "Gosh" is said eight times.
"Shucks" is said twice.
"Gee." "Golly" is said twice.
"Zeus" is said three times.
"Goodness only knows." "Geeminy Christmas." An illustration shows two boys in only loincloths costumed as Indians.
These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't.
I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it!
The author of Homer Price, Robert McCloskey, has written six tales for readers to enjoy: THE CASE OF THE SENSATIONAL SCENT: Homer catches a group of robbers with the help of his pet skunk, Aroma.
THE CASE OF THE COSMIC COMIC: Homer's friend, Freddy, learns what Homer already knows about comic book characters.
MYSTERY YARN: Homer's Uncle Telly and the sheriff both save string.
Homer is on the case.
I loved this book ever since grade school, and The Doughnuts is the tale I enjoyed most.
I re-read Homer Price quite a few times during my grade school years.And now here I re-read it again, using my cynical grown-up eyes.Homer is such a good boy!
He is good friends with the town sheriff, and his hobby is building radios, when he is not in school or helping his family with their work.He lives in a world that has crime and argument, but readers don't see injustice or violence in Homer's world.Part of me would like to see a book where Homer is grown-up, and I'm wondering what kind of person he has become.
But at the same time, I don't want to know.
The best thing about this book is the strangeness! On the surface, this appears to be tales of a boy growing up in a small town, but every chapter has something a little weird going on, in a wholesome, aboveboard, "what do you mean, something is strange?" kind of way. As a young reader, I loved catching onto ideas not explicitly stated.
I remember finding this so much funnier a decade ago... It's always disappointing when that happens.McCloskey can draw, though (obviously). The illustrations are fabulous.
Homer is the optimistic young citizen of Centerburg, a quaint town bustling with entertaining adventures, all of which Homer seems to end up in the middle of.
You’ll be sure to laugh through the exaggerated scenes and far-fetched scenarios Homer finds himself in the thick of and you’ll enjoy the down-home humor, a refreshing respite from modern entertainment.
At the end of the book, I’m betting Homer and his Centerburg entourage will be among your favorite fictional characters.Recommended read-aloud age: all agesRecommended read-alone age: 8 and upMy blog: www.oursureanchor.com
The stories are still delightful and funny, told in an engaging, childlike manner.
They are everything I remember.But wait, there's more.
I don't remember that being there when I was nine.
This ranks up there with the brilliant political satire hidden in Oliver Butterworth's The Enormous Egg.If you haven't read this since you were a kid, pick it up.
It'll bring back great memories of your childhood reading, but will be much more than just a nostalgic trip back to your old bookshelf.
These stories are fun and imaginative, but they also have teeth.
Robert McCloskey made such great books for kids. They looked good, they read good. They even smelled good. The majority of McCloskey's books are written with very young children in mind, and they're all classics, deservedly so. "Homer Price" was one of the first books I read that was longer than 15-20 pages and didn't feature paintings of enormous caterpillars committing acts of meta vandalism throughout, and it's both an ideal stepping stone and a fun read no matter how long you've been reading big boy books. I'm hungry right now just thinking about all those donuts.
I only recently thought of this book (these stories) again. They were from the 1940s and I ran across the book in a school room when I was around 12. Homer runs afoul of snake oil salesmen, meet's "current" superheros, has trouble with a never ending doughnut machine and other unusual events. I remember I loved the stories though I haven't seen a book of them for many years. This was one that got me in trouble as the teacher caught me reading it when she was talking about something else and I was supposed to be listening....good times.
This book was written in 1943 and chronicles the adventures of Homer, a young boy living in a small town. In one chapter, Homer helps to arrest some thieves with the help of his pet skunk. My favorite chapter involves a doughnut machine that won't stop making doughnuts. This is a very sweet book that made me think of the Andy Griffith show. Life seemed to be so much simpler back in those days.
I don't know of many people who have actually had a pet skunk but my brother was one if them..Euphemism was her name....she was de-stunk.. If you will... So this story was especially personal to me. Homer and his little pal, his pet skunk solve crimes and run amok up in his small home town in six short stories... What a fun time... This book was for me to read!
As a child, mY brother brought this home from the library and I could hardly wait to get my hands on it. It was every bit the adventure I had hoped it would be. I wanted to live in Henry's world. Great read for all ages!
This charming book was one of my favorites as a young boy.
The rings of batter kept right on dropping into the hot fat, and an automatic gadget kept right on giving them a little push, and the doughnuts kept right on rolling down the little chute, all ready to eat." - p 61 As my nextdoor neighbor & friend the Creative Writing Prof pointed out, this is like the Sorcerer's Apprentice story where Homer, the apprentice, is left in charge of the shop & things get out of control.
6\30\17 Read with Lincoln, Naomi , Julia, JD, & Joseph at lunch while the big kids were at camp.Picked up at a Little Free Library.
An enjoyable audiobook. Nice to hear the songs sung.
This is an episodic children's book, typical of the time period in which it was written.
There is no plot running through the story but instead each chapter (there are 6) describes an adventure of Homer's.
Homer's life in the 1940s is one of freedom and childhood naivete.
I've read this book three times now and I never get tired of it.
He already loves Henry Huggins, and I have yet to introduce him to The Great Brain, Soup and Henry Reed.
This book is similar to the others I mentioned and will be enjoyed by those who enjoy these stories of old-fashioned boyhood.
Great.
I had never heard about this book before over on my side of the pond, but a friend suggested this to me thinking it would be my type of book , and Lesley you were right!Homer is a young boy who likes to make radios ,he is also very inquisitive ,and likes to know what is going on in his small town, and for a small town there is quite a bit of interesting things happening there.
From bandits to pet skunks ,and a few too many donuts there is always something to keep the reader interested and Homer on his toes.The characters were lovely and the illustrations were just darling .
I can't wait to read more about Homer soon again.:0)
I love books written in this era. The 1940s and 50s are so much fun in fiction! What a sweet book filled with larger-than-life characters and the sweet taste of times back when things weren't so rushed and full of too many commitments. As an adult, I enjoyed the wonderful nostalgic feel, while I can see many a kiddo laughing at the town's antics. I remember reading the Mousetrap story in a basal reading text as a student and really enjoying it.
Laughed my way through all six stories. Got to love Robert McCloskey! His classic style of drawings were scattered throughout the book, adding to the stories and the humor. And I wish there was a Ulysses Lunchroom near where I lived, because reading about all of those doughnuts gave me a craving for them!
Just finished reading this aloud to my 4 year old. He loved it even though much of the nuances were over his head. He asked tons of questions and definitely got the gist and silliness of each story. We read it in 4 days!! I think I'll read it again in 2 or 3 years when it's more developmentally appropriate.
I read this as part of an extreme challenge--read a book from your childhood. Homer played a front and center part in my childhood. How can you ever let a donut pass over your lips without thinking of him?
