https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9805769-the-terrible-old-man
It is the first Lovecraft story set in New England, making it a landmark of sorts, and it has one detail—the disturbing description of the bottles with which the Old Man converses—which shows the distinctive Lovecraftian touch.
Otherwise, it is a brief, conventional tale about three ignorant robbers who mess with the wrong senior citizen.Oh, one other distinctive Lovecraftian characteristic (though I hesitate to call it a “touch”): as soon as I read the opening sentence—“It was the design of Angelo Ricci and Joe Czanek and Manuel Silva to call on the Terrible Old Man.”—I knew the three guys aforementioned must be robbers.
'It was the design of Angelo Ricci and Joe Czanek and Manuel Silva to call on the Terrible Old Man.' To call on might be a bit of an understatement since these three, not being from Kingsport and lacking the knowledge of the old man strangeness (he was seen speaking to his bottles), have decided to rob the man.Ricci and Silva go in.
They leave Czanek to wait for them by the car.
They don't come out.The first time I've read about the Terrible Old Man was in The Strange High House in the Mist where he has a more benign role.
Pretty average, but with that mysterious touch typical of Lovecraf
Oh my, this Lovecraft story was super creepy and very descriptive.
"The Terrible Old Man" might be the most normal of Lovecraft's stories, the most "normal" one I've read, anyway.
it's that good.I'm not saying that Lovecraft invented this type of story, but this is certainly the earliest example that I know I've read of this type, the type where the perpetrators become the victims.So...There's an old man, an ex-sea captain, who lives alone and is rumored to have vast stores of treasures.
Not long after, he hears screams coming from inside the house and assumes it's the old guy...
the terrible old man don't play that game honey!
Lesson of this short story; Don't F*ck with old people.Lesson learned.
"The Legend of Wooley Swamp" came immediately to mind after reading the first couple paragraphs, New England setting notwithstanding.
(I guess I should note that the thugs have ethnic names, but (view spoiler)[one is sympathetic and the truly evil guy is the Terrible Old Man, as is clear from the beginning (hide spoiler)], so I'm not sure I would call this racism.)(Moving 2015 review to separate work to make room under collection for review, September 2017.
It's only taken me two years of mulling over Lovecraft's garbage, but I finally put my finger on the actual racism at work here.
Seemed promising, but it ultimately did nothing for me. I can't help but feel I missed some subtle aspect that would have made me enjoy it more. Read it for free on Tor's website.
The moral of the story:Don't fuck with old folks!
His pathological race-induced fears are transfigured into the horrors so adroitly described in his stories.
While his racist views emerge in his stories, marring and staining them, we can sometimes still appreciate the rest of the work because of that powerful, agoraphobic sense of horror and fear that he managed to convey.
While we despise his views, we still admire his tremendously powerful depictions of ancient horrors, powered by the deep anxieties and fears rooted on his views.In the case of The terrible Old Man, the author fails to deliver, and all that is left are the xenophobic rants and a thin plot.
Let's just say this is not one of his best short stories.
Three robbers pay a visit to a reclusive old sea captain with a rumored stash of hoarded gold. This is the first in a series of stories about the fictional town of Kingsport written by Lovecraft. While the story is just so-so, it did interest me in reading more about Kingsport.3 STARS
This is like the movie Don't Breathe, except with a supernatural element. There's a little of Lovecraft's xenophobia present here but thankfully it doesn't taint the entire story. I liked the mystery that the old man represented, one that never got answered.
A tale with uncharacteristically moral overtones for Lovecraft, the self-described cosmic indifferentist. I nearly gave it three stars but the concept of an old sailor communicating with his dead shipmates via resonant pieces of lead suspended in bottles blew my mindtank :-D
His history is teased but not delved into.The three crooks who try to rob the title character are stock "degenerate immigrants" that Lovecraft loved to use, but they at least feel like human characters with motivations, fears, and desires.PACE: 3 out of 5I went into this story not knowing what to expect, and it establishes things in short order.
A good mystery about the title character is hinted but not explored, and the fate of the three would-be robbers is ambiguous and unfulfilling.DIALOGUE: N/A out of 5There isn't really any dialogue in this story so I have decided not to rate it at all.STYLE/TECHNICAL: 2 out of 5There isn't anything special in the writing here.
В місті Кінгспорт, що в Новій Англії живе Жахливий Ствригань, який користується дурною славою. Дехто бачив, що у нього на столі в одній з кімнат стоять пляшки, всередині яких підвішені шматочки свинцю, наче маятники. Є відки, які бачили, які він промовляє до них, а вони, мовби у відповідь вібрують всередині пляшки. Трьом немісцевих грабіжників були невідомі ці плітки і вони вирішили, що Жахливий Старигань - легка здобич для таких професіоналів, як вони. Одного квітневого вечора вони завітали в гості до Жахливого Стариганя, а він зустрів їх хижою посмішкою.
A fairly underwhelming short regarding a strange old man who lives alone and ends up brutally murdering three men who attempt to rob him.He possess strange bottles containing small pieces of lead suspended from strings, which he talks to and has built bizarre painted stone sculptures in his front garden which resemble ‘Eastern idols’ ... nice details, but the story could have been expanded to be more complex and unsettling.
Una historia corta pero emocionante. Me impresioné un poco, al ver que está narración está en tercera persona; y no, en primera, como usualmente Lovecraft escribía. Los personajes son muy llamativos, en especial, el antagonista, el terrible anciano, ya que es; un ser despiadado y cruel.
Another brilliant epitome of short horror stories.Doesnt include the usual lovecraft octupus tentacles or cosmis horror but a rather different almost "normal" sort of fear - that of a stranger at the end of the town
This isn't even a story, it's really just an idea for something that might could have been a story. 3 robbers decide to rob an old man in his house. They don't come back out of the house. The end. Seriously, that's fucking it.
Ambiguously creepy. Like my ex.
6/10
The Terrible Old Man and the dumb-ass story.
Decent story.
Odd little vignette. Possibly the first time I've thought Lovecraft needed to write more, rather than less. Sufficiently creepy as is, but a bit more information would be nice.
okay...this end like I want it to end
A creep story of an old man who murders 3 robbers without further description except for a scream. Not worth your time.
Mediocre...Racconto breve, poco intenso.Notevole però l’alone di mistero intriso in ogni pagina.
Perkenalan dgn lovercraft. Baca di blog sih, versi terjemahan fan. Yah cukup misteri ...
Didn't do much for me really.
