https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/943402.Let_the_Right_One_In
But now, one grungy vampire tale Let the Right One In let’s me know in no uncertain terms that Swedes suffer too.
In fact it's really about childhood neglect and the vampire stuff can be read as an extended poetic symbol.
Rent it!Up-update - I was referring here to the movie Let the Right One In by Thomas Alfredson, made in Sweden in 2009 and not the Hollywood remake by Matt Reeves just released, which I haven't seen.Upupupupdate : I saw the American remake and that's great too - I wouldn't lie to you, I was very surprised.
You know that bit at the beginning of Amadeus, where Salieri has composed this very uninspired little march, which he and the Emperor play for Mozart?
Then Mozart sits down at the keyboard and says, hm, that's not quite right, is it?
And he messes around with it for a couple of minutes, until he's suddenly transformed it into "Here's farewell to the games with the girls" from The Marriage of Figaro.
John Ajvide Lindqvist has looked at Stephenie Meyer's book and said hm, that's not quite right, is it?
I wouldn't have thought it could be done.I can hear Mozart's irritating high-pitched giggle.
Yo, lesson for you, Stephenie: this is how you write a fucking vampire novel.So you can run and tell THAT.
(A) 86% | ExtraordinaryNotes: Tenderness with ferocity. It's lonely, desperate people living in ashen desolation. The grey makes the red stand out.
good casting because that’s a pretty close approximation of how I visualized her Eli.The aforementioned Oskar, our main character, is a 12 year old whose life is a bit of a mess.
In his spare time, Hakan is a sick, unhinged, pedophile (now you understand the shudder) who is constantly struggling with his predelictions and the awful things he has to do to keep Eli alive.
Again...*shudder* Trust me, by the end of the story, Hakan dumps a whole truckload of creepy all over the story.
On the positive side, the prose is excellent and the characters of Eli, Hakan and Oskar are very interesting.
I figured that the planned American film version would be a pale shadow of the original because there’s no way that a Hollywood movie studio is going to show that messed up tale in it’s original form to audiences in the U.S. Little did I know that even the Swedish producers didn’t have the collective nutsack to give us the full story on how goddamn twisted the book is.
In fact, he’s well on his way to becoming the kind of guy who dances around his basement while screaming at his latest victim to put the lotion on it’s skin or else it gets the hose again.Before Oskar completely turns into Buffalo Bill, he meets Eli, a deadly vampire who appears to be a 12 year old girl.
Imagine for a moment that you were at an event, like the 1995 Rugby World cup where South Africa both hosted and won.
When other people ask you about it, you'll get that look in your eyes that tells them you've seen things.You're just as altered as the first scene, but where there was ebulation then, there is horror now.This is what happens when I read certain books.
They touch me and move me, so I run around telling everyone that I read it.
I want to help you feel what I felt.
Now I quietly tell you that I read it.
But let me start by warning Twilight lovers that this book is not about sexy sparkly vampires and teenage love.
The story is complex and involves many characters, whose presence sometimes is just momentary.
What I am going to say is that this is simply the best vampire novel I've ever read.
But this book is not only about vampires, it explores the world of adolescent boys (the world I know nothing about).
Surprisingly, I found out how important presence of a father in a boy's life.
Without the guidance a love of a father, boys are lost to violence and abuse.
Dear Stephenie,This is how you write a "vampire" book.Sincerely, The World
Terrifying, engrossing and a book that encompasses many different topics. Not just a story about vampires; this book takes on such issues as bullying, revenge, pedophilia, prostitution, drug use, alcoholism and the sheer desperation of loneliness. Beautifully written and terribly disturbing. This book sets the bar for the genre.
Loved it. Scary as hell and so violent. Think i shat myself along with Tommy in that basement. The first and probs only vampire book I will ever read. Loved it. And loved both films.
Σαίξπηρ, ''Ρωμαίος και Ιουλιέτα''Αυτό το βιβλίο ήταν για μένα μια αναγνωστική ρουφήχτρα που με τράβηξε στη δίνη της απο τις πρώτες σελίδες.
Διαβάζεται απολαυστικά ακόμη και απο αναγνώστεςπου δεν ειναι λάτρεις της γοτθικής σκοτεινιάς και του ζοφερού σκηνικού-παρόλο που έχει σκηνές σκληρές και αιματοβαμμένες σε τέλεια περιγραφή και αποτύπωση για οργιώδη φαντασία- γιατί καταφέρνει να δημιουργήσει ενα εξαιρετικό λογοτεχνικό αποτέλεσμα ανεξαιρέτως θέματος.
Η ουσία της ιστορίας ειναι η ερωτική φιλία που γεννιέται και δυναμώνει,ανάμεσα στον Όσκαρ ενα χαρισματικά διαταραγμένο παιδί και την Έλι μια επιεικώς τρυφερή και δυστυχισμένη ύπαρξη 200 ετών,ενα παράξενο βαμπίρ.
Ειναι ενα δυνατό και ωμό θρίλερ.
An unlikely FLAT-OUT masterpiece that contains the most visceral of horror fiction elements & expands them toward a precipice of dread. A one-of-a-kind experience, a delicious slap to the moribund reader.To be read AT ONCE. Do it! NOW. Take the title of this work literally. Find the time to seek this one out--nothing American comes even close to its gorgeous monster tale. So worth it!
Even in the blackest moments, towards the end where violence is heaped on tragedy and tragedy is heaped upon everyone, there is a tiny pin prick of light, and it comes from Oskar because he has developed resilience and you know he might just survive after all.“Let the right one in” is a book to be read with a lit fire, a blanket and the curtains drawn against cold starry nights and the things that stand outside the window in the dark.
I mean, if it wasn't for the pedophile PoV creeping the freaking hell out of me for a grand swath of the beginning, I'd still have been digging the early eighties references, the crisp and delightful prose (even if translated), and the details of life around Kiss and Rubic's Cubes.
Even better, it captures the life and times of the children very well.
It's just plain good.I've heard others describe this as a much, much better Twilight, but other than the fact that it has children and vampires and it's very popular, that's about it for the comparison.
The character writing is phenomenal.
The story is brutal and unsettling and, at times, eerie.
It is not only one of the best vampire novels I've read, but one of the best horror novels I've ever come across.
It will be a long time before I get that vile shit out of my head, if I ever do.In summation: This review is short because I have nothing bad to say about Let the Right One In. It is a horror fan's horror novel.
All this coming from a guy who fucking hates vampires.Final Judgment: Sucks blood not ass.
(Not to mention best horror book--ever.) I am in awe of Lindqvist's ability to write, it is impossible for me to enjoy a book without great writing and the translation was so spot on it did not read like one at all.Sweden, a place I've never been, became real to me without having to put much of my imagination to work.
If I listed the things that scared me most, vampires running around looking for blood wouldn't rate in my top 10.
And I'm sure glad that I did.The title is a play on the Morrissey tune "Let the Right One Slip In", but the story takes place in the winter of 1981 in a suburb outside Stockholm, Sweden called Blackeberg.
While my school experience was nowhere near as hopeless, I related to Oskar's plight much more than I wanted to.In the dead of night, Oskar receives new neighbors, including a young girl about his own age who gives the name Eli. Meeting in the courtyard playground after dark, Eli talks like an adult, smells like an old bandage, seems impervious to the cold and solves a Rubik's Cube without effort.
That woman is my favorite secondary character from this book.This is one piece of work that handles so many threads of thoughts at once and that too so beautifully that you feel this not-to-be-curbed desire to just meet the author once and know that they are real and this is not the work of some not-so-real person.;-)I loved this book, every bit and piece of it.
I loved Eli and Oskar, the secondary characters, the numerous shocks that hit us from out of the blue with no warning whatsover as to what could happen next.
The sheer terror of this story is brilliantly tempered with the tragic lives of two children, Oskar and Eli, who both find themselves living on the periphery of a life they desperately wish to belong.
I've read so many reviewers express the heartbreak they felt over Oskar, and while that is a given, it is little Eli that captured my heart and then crushed it.
Actually, I would love to read a prequel novel on Eli's life and death prior to our meeting her on the playground with Oskar.
I enjoyed the main characters, I enjoyed how the issues dealt with herein-bullying, alcoholism, pedophilia were introduced and discussed, and I definitely enjoyed the ending!
There were a few weird side plots going on and it never became clear to me how they connected with the main one, but I ended up enjoying those too.
I would like to say that the narrator, Steven Pacey, was freaking AWESOME.
He was immediately added to my favorite narrators list.
Overall, this book was fun, (it was definitely not YA and it dealt with the vampire issue, (and other issues), in a realistic and interesting way.
Needless to say these vampires were good, sexy, killing evil and saving the damsel in distress.
Vampires were blood thirsty, scary, dangerous and murderers.
So I was happy when I finished reading this book as this is how one must write vampire books!Oskar is a 12 year old boy living in suburbs of Sweden.
There were other stories too in the book in addition to Oskar and Eli, and I kept thinking how author would converge these stories but he did a wonderful job with them in the end.
This book has vampires, pedophiles, drug addiction, alcoholism, dark rooms, violence, murders and abuse.
Švedska, jesen/zima 1981.godine, predgrađe Stokholma, mrak, šuma i prijateljstvo između sasvim običnog dečaka Oskara i već na prvi pogled poprilično neobične devojčice Eli.Lindkvist je uspeo u onome što je na prvi pogled delovalo kao nemoguće, a to je da roman koji pripada žanru horora učini još mračnijim i zlosutnijim.
"Pusti pravog da uđe" nije samo još jedna u nizu zastrašujućih priča o vampirima, već predstavlja i osvrt na ozbiljne probleme u društvu kao što su: nasilje u školi, pedofilija, alkoholizam, rasturene porodice, droga, težak život radničkih porodica...Dečak Oskar je tipičan tinejdžer koji ima niz problema, dolazi iz rasturene porodice ne baš stabilne finansijske situacije i žrtva je vršnjačkog nasilja u školi.
This is as good as my other favourite vampire story- Fevre Dream by George R Martin.
As much as I loved the vampire story, there was much more to this.
It is also a story of lonely children, of bullying, of perversion.
The setting adds to the sinister atmosphere.
I haven’t seen either of the films although they are meant to be quite creepy.
They don’t have such high ratings but I bet that’s because they haven’t got movies attached to them.
Recommended if you like your vampire a little more horror than fantasy!
I'm sure there was nothing lost in translation and the writing is fluid and beautiful-I can't quite put my finger on what it was that triggered it but once that switch was flipped, it stayed on-I was very aware of it, somehow.Also, major props to Lindqvist for great character development-this is clearly his wheelhouse.Story-wise this is dark, dark, really dark subject matter.
At times, I felt like skimming or turning away because Lindqvist doesn't shy away from the graphic, obscene, uncomfortable details that I honestly, don't want to know.And sometimes I questioned if certain things (pedophilia) was even necessary to the story.
It's not a feel good story at all.But, this is a gold standard book for fans of horror and more specifically, fans of vampire lit.
It's bumming me out.
50 pages in and I'm giving up.
I don't think I can take this much gore any longer.
It's disturbing.
I need at least one likable character - someone to root for, only then I can take in gore, serial murderers, pedophilia and such.
Without somebody to identify with, suffering through one violent description after another is no fun.
This was no fun.
And now I'm fighting this urge: I want to crawl in under the table, wrap myself up in a blanket, stuck a thumb into my mouth and rock back and forth, hoping all the bad feelings will go away.
DNF @ page 189 (for now??)I was really enjoying this book, but I feel like I'm either not in the right mood for it, or it's just too stuffed with filler that I can't slog through it to get to the good parts.
I LOVE how dark and gory this book is, and that alone was almost enough to make me keep reading, but at the moment it just doesn't feel worth it when there are so many other spooky books I'm excited to read.
Me: croaking something about the Circle of Life as I stood in my pajamas holding the previously very alive Fuzzy Fish, his kaleidoscope colors already blanching into the generic paper towel with which he had been hastily gathered; she: heaving, sobbing, inconsolable, uncomprehending, a little less innocent and a little more inured.
We solemnly buried him in the backyard and I have since done my best to fix things by buying her a new fish, some new toys, taking her out for ice cream and making more time to play with her.
The things we make DO end up making us, I just don’t think a Wrangler is the way to self-actualization.
"Let the right one inLet the old dreams dieLet the wrong ones goThey cannot do What you want them to do" Está una muy buena historia de vampiros que, a pesar de que los protagonistas son niños, de tierno no tiene nada. Explora los aspectos más deplorables de la vida: pederastia, soledad, tortura, muerte, alcoholismo, asesinato, acoso, drogadicción, obsesión y la perdida, literal y figurativa, de la vida misma. En general, todos los personajes tienen al menos una de estas características y, por
En general, todos los personajes tienen al menos una de estas características y, por uno lado hace más interesante la historia pero por el otro...había algunas escenas dificiles de leer.Oskar es un niño perturbado que desde el primer momento te encariña y eso se debe en gran parte a que su vida es simplemente mala...su padre es alcohólico, sufre terribles abusos en la escuela, NO TIENE AMIGOS, es inseguro...pero al mismo tiempo esta fascinado con los asesinatos y fantasea con cometer uno.

