https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/311179.Bath_Tangle
Omg you look so HOT!!Ivo said: Serena you look like a magpie.Ivo Barrasford added a life event: In a Relationship with Emily Laleham.Fanny Spenborough wrote on Serena Carlow's timeline: Serena inbox me, ASAP!!Serena said: What??
Love to :)Hector Kirkby - added a photo - with Fanny Spenborough in Bath.Gerard Monksleigh wrote on Ivo Barrasford's timeline: I EFFIN HATE YOU, YOU RUINED MY LIFE, I NEVER WANT TO TALK TO YOU AGAIN.Ivo said: Hold on, man, da eff is going on?Gerard said: You know what!
Emily has no reason to be afraid!Hector said: Fanny, I think Serena and Ivo need to get back together!
Bath Tangle was another Georgette Heyer's delightful story. We have here couples that have to overcome romantic entanglements, with every character paired with the wrong person. Bath Tangle indeed! But what I most enjoyed was Heyer's sense of humor and her vivid portrayal of the genteel everyday life of the time.
I’ll open no gates for you, my girl! you’ll take any fence I take, and we’ll clear it, neck and neck.  Wonderful story with marvelous dialog and Heyer's trademark witticism. The book is not as popular or as universally loved as some of her other titles. And, actually, if you’re never read the author, I wouldn’t recommend it as your first encounter but, please come back to it later. The plot is a clever mix of romantic entanglements, comedy of manners, and vivid portrayal of everyday life of gen
And even though, this was one of these stories where the main characters didn’t spend much time together, the strength of their relationship is a domineering force of the narrative.
Hoping to revive her flagging spirit Serena and her lovely young stepmother Fanny decide to move to Bath, a place more appropriate than London for they are still in mourning.
The poignant quiet nature of that particular romance provides a nice balance to a spirited and spark-inducing relationship of Serena and Rotherham.I also loved the setting.
Reading this book was like visiting these lovely places again.
While I like Serena a lot and the chase she leads Ivo is a lot of fun, the book has two weaknesses that put it on my "read less often" list.
Heyer's skill is such that even as little as we see him, we can see where he stands (even if Serena doesn't), but that isn't really enough to carry through those long gaps of his absence.The second problem I have with the book is the long part in the later middle where very little happens with the characters I actually care for.
Only it's just mentioned from time to time without going into her perfect body and soft skin and all that crap, and never ever by him, who calls her a magpie when others flatter (just like Charise or the other "older" heroine Abigail, called a candle rather than a diamond).So it was rather hard for me to feel ok with Serena who was a politicial hostess, someone needing space and influence and money - but how well done that is most readers today won't appreciate, because just like her step mother Fanny tries to tell others, we have to see how good natured Serena is, how genuinely she cares for Fanny and others.
Starts several romantic tangles with Gerard (Rotherham's nephew and ward), Ned Goring (Mrs Floore's business partner) and Major Hector Kirkby (Serena's old boyfriend and current fiance).Now, I started off absolutely disliking Rotherham right from the beginning.
But beyond that, I really could not see why on earth Serena even liked Rotherham enough to marry him.
Serena and Rotherham might have been the heroine and hero of the book, but the minor characters stole the show.
I am giving this only 2 stars not because I hated the book, but because I absolutely loathed Rotherham and I resent that he was depicted as someone worth marrying.
The audio version of this book, narrated by Sian Phillips, bumps it up to four stars for me. I liked all of the characters, but every Heyer fan should read (even better, listen) to this book just to become acquainted with Mrs. Floore, the immensely wealthy, admittedly vulgar grandmother who protects her granddaughter from the girl's social-climbing mother. Lots of banter and zingers. Great fun.
Though I didn't have much patience with her character, I still liked her a great deal because I really really love to read strong heroines.
I found myself feeling for all the characters from Fanny and Kirkby to Mrs. Floore (really really felt for her!) majorly for Ivo and also a great deal for Serena.A very interesting element of the story is that though not present in any scene directly, I could feel the presence of Lady Augusta (in the epistolary form!) and Lord Spenborough through seeing the results of his eccentricities.
Each knows the other so long, and understands the other so well, they also know exactly how to goad the other for maximum effect -- and at times, for their benefit because deep down they do care for one another.Left with only pin money, Serena sets up house with her younger step-mother and together they eventually decide to remove to Bath, rather than watch the uncultivated cousin, the new earl, dismantle all the fine traditions and the pretty grounds of the great estate that he plans to occupy with his shrew of a wife and their offspring.In Bath, fate intervenes and Serena's long ago first love, now a retired army major, crosses her path and they renew their acquaintance and fall back in love.
About that time the marquess announces his betrothal to a young debutante, Serena's major approaches the marquess about their marriage plans.
But action in "Bath Tangle" is quicker, the story is more for fun.
As I wrote in my review, "An Accomplished Woman" is like to mix Heyer with Austen.
Witty Heyer with more philosophical, sociological Austen.Going back to "Bath Tangle" I add that I thought (at the beginning) that Spenborough's will (testament) would have had bigger impact on the story (I could even imagine some ideas) but still, Heyer had own view and she gave us another masterpiece of the genre.And for all who have read it already: Read Anne's review!
2018 Review - 4 Stars Charming as ever. Serena is cut in the mold of Sophy or Frederica, but with less cunning and more of a temper. I quite love her. Original 2013 Rating - 3 Stars
This wasn’t as good as usual OR I wasn’t in the mood for it. Either way, I found Serena very annoying!
Lady Serena Spenborough wants nothing to do with Ivo Barrasford, Marquis of Rotherham, one of her father’s best friends and her former betrothed.
It was amazing!The main characters, Serena and Ivo, were totally maddening and tiresome but I loved them to pieces!
They drove me crazy sometimes, but these are the characters I love most, the ones that involve you in the story and you feel a part of it, you are not just a reader, it is more than that.
She always makes my reading time enjoyable and I love spending my hours with her characters.
(*May contain some spoilers*)In most of Heyer's books we read the comedy and we laugh and we listen to the banter of two characters that we know will fall in love by the end but until then are simply at odds with each other to keep the reader amused.
Bath Tangle was the first Heyer I've read that I could really sense a depth of character behind the feisty front put up by both heroine and hero.
It's apparent (to the reader) that they are in love with each other the whole time, and yet the story still focuses mainly on the comedy and the leads appear to hate each other until the end.
Having finished it, I was just a little relieved that all the tangles of the love interests were sorted out, and that everyone got to where they intended to go (though, I would almost have enjoyed it more if someone had made an irrevocable mistake, even if it were just Gerald and Emily; the way it came out was too good to be true, and Rotherham far too in control of the whole situation).You've got to like that this isn't just a story with a tempestuous male character pulling everyone along; Rotherham may well remind the gentle reader of Rochester from Jane Eyre with his manners.
A fiery and hilarious romantic comedy about two people with the horridest temper discovering that they are, after all, made for each other.
I have to say it is a great SHAME that Heyer is such an underrated writer.
I suppose it must be the feminine covers and the fact that there is (shock, horror) KISSING in her books that makes people just imagine whatever they want and then say the most amazing NONSENSE about her work.
But I count her among my very favourite writers and I'm very glad to!
3.5 starsNot the best of Heyer’s novels, it’s a good story nonetheless.
The protagonist, Serena, is a 25-year-old, rich, and spoiled aristocratic beauty, much indulged by her eccentric father.
After he dies in the beginning of the novel, he leaves Serena’s considerable inheritance in trust, administered by her former fiancé, the arrogant Marquis Ivo Rotherham.
Of course, Serena and Rotherham clash again and again.
By the terms of her father’s will, until she marries, the only amount Serena can receive annually is about £700, a pittance by her estimation.
Once I was interested in what would happen between them, the anticipation kept me waiting and hoping for the entire book.
I do wish that the hero had been present more often, since the scenes with him were the best, and kept the whole thing going.Basically all the other characters are insipid and wishy-washy (on purpose), which adds to the boring parts during the first half.
The ending was exactly what I was hoping for, and worth the wait.
This was another good Heyer, even if you have to skim some of the society details and wade through a slow beginning.
Our main couple had broken off their engagement before the novel started. That was such an intriguing premise, wasn't it? Oh all the possibilities! Unfortunately, even after finishing the book I still couldn't tell WHY they broke up the first time. That really bugged me for some reason.Review coming.
This one seemed to wander for a while before the story picked up. It concluded nicely, though. You can't really go wrong with Georgette Heyer for Historical Romance.
Well that was delightful.
Years and years ago I devoured Georgette Heyer books, bringing them home from the library in stacks of as many as I could find and carry.
In recent years, of course, we are fortunate enough to find her novels in reprint.
But then I'm the kind of person who has read PRIDE AND PREJUDICE more times than I care to remember and has the A&E miniseries of said Austen novel, 6 hours long, to re-watch at will.
So I don't require a whole lot of action to go on in the novels I read.
At first, I didn't think I'd like this novel much because the apparent "romantic couple" had genuine quarrels that even they decided wouldn't lead to a happily married life together.
But as each makes a romantic match with another (as in, "oh, how romantic sounding!
Of course you should marry!"), the story explores how a romantic match doesn't necessarily create a good match.
Yet now each felt stuck in a commitment made in the throes of romantic feeling, or temper, or gratification.
So the story is about coming to appreciate good qualities in others and about what makes a good match in a marriage.
My 23rd Georgette HeyerUpon the death of her father, Lady Serena Carlow finds herself in the custody of her former fiance Ivo Barrasford.
She decides to go live with her very young step-mother Fanny in Bath where she meets her first love Hector and they rekindle their romance.
One problem: Ivo's fiance Emily (who was under Selena's guidance to become a Marquise) runs of with one of his other wards, Gerard.To be perfectly honest, when I started this book I thought this would be a Regency Taming Of The Shrew.
Re-read February 5, 2017
We’re all here to really irritate each other for the next few minutes; but that’s okay, seeing as you’re barely going to notice us for the rest of the story, if we’re here at all.Rotherham: All of you, shut the f**k up already, and let the snobby lawyerish dude read the Will!Snobby Lawyerish Dude: *eh-hem* I am very sorry to inform you of this, Lady Serena, but the guy you once almost married, Lord Rotherham, is now your Trustee, in control of almost all your money, and has to give his approval to whomever you decide to marry.Rotherham: …LOL!Everyone else: Oh snap.Serena: … Son of a bitch.Rotherham: Hey, come on, it wasn’t my idea!Serena: Was too!Rotherham: Was not!Serena: Was too!(Readers: Seriously, guys?)Rotherham: Was not!!!Serena: So refuse to take the job then.Rotherham: I enjoy being a royal pain the ass...so no.
As always, I enjoyed Georgette Heyer's overall writing style. However, the characters in this book were not my favorite. The main male character is selfish and temperamental. The heroine also has quite the temper, but is slightly more considerate of the feelings of those she cares for. None of the characters grow during the story and I would consider this book more of a comedy than a true romance. So while I did enjoy reading it, but I wouldn't recommend it unless you are a fan of Heyer in general.
This Heyer builds more slowly, and since it is not a highly sentimental novel those looking for feel-good romance might tire of it early on. However, there is plenty of wit and humour, as well as some very wise thoughts about love, and the absence of sentiment leaves the reader free to enjoy these other aspects and perceive the wisdom more clearly.The spirited heroine is by no means the angelic creature her childhood sweetheart believes her to be. She has a feisty temper and impulsive nature, e
This Heyer builds more slowly, and since it is not a highly sentimental novel those looking for feel-good romance might tire of it early on.
These characters look rather ridiculous, though their folly too is not uncommon.So while this is not a sentimental novel and does not allow you to 'feel' the romance until almost the very end, it does help you to notice all of the other considerations that are important in a relationship.
Heyer often has main characters that come across as unpleasant at first, but improve upon better acquaintance.
She was such a manly harridan from start to finish - ugh!
I liked the minor characters but couldn't get past my increasing annoyance with Serena's arrogant, over-confident, and high-handed ways.
If you've had experience with a Regency romance, you can often surmise from the beginning how the ending will turn out, but this was so predictable from the very first, I simply read to the end to ensure that some of the minor characters would be happily situated.
It had the usual humor and flair for great dialogue, but I had to battle my irritation to finish.
"Bath Tangle" - written by Georgette Heyer and published in 1955.
She paints a vivid portrait of English upper class life in the early 1800s, although here we only get to know a small company as the story begins with the reading of a Will.
"Habits of strict obedience, I think, are not readily overcome." Eventually Lord Rotherham realizes that "the tangle is now past unravelling, and must be cut" and the story comes to its expected but satisfactory conclusion.
This was a delightful and diverting read and there are many more of Heyer's well-researched stories to choose from.
