https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/311034.On_the_Night_of_the_Seventh_Moon
I read nearly all of Victoria Holt's books, but this was by far my favorite.
I still remember the excitement of the mystery and love story.
I just recently ordered my own copy to read it again.
Her books have clean romance they are a simplified version of the types of stories Jane Austin writes.
They often have a lower class girl/governess who falls in love with someone out of her league.
There is often a mystery of murder or kidnapping to go along with it.
They are just fun easy books to entertain yourself.
"Sometimes, looking back, I ask myself: Why did you accept this and that?
Lots of drinking and partying and creepy mists in the forest, and our poor heroine gets herself lost and then found by an ever-so-handsome-mystery man.
IIRC, she's sent home to England and then comes back and that's when she meets her mystery man again and they are married in secret.
Or are they married?
Just who is this mystery man and why does he disappear from her life after three days of wedded bliss?
Or were they married?Don't you worry guys, you can guess every bit of plot point coming a mile away.
So I'm going to try to keep this to just general things and then you can make a decision if you want to read this for Halloween book bingo.On the night of the seventh moon is told from the first person point of view of a young girl named Helena.
Long story short, everyone around can tell that Siegfried is up to no good, but Helena feels so excited by things.
And I honestly wish that Holt had just decided to end the book in a different way because I never did warm up to Siegfried.I have to say that I thought that the writing that Holt did in this one was very good.
Aww yeah, 1970s Victoria Holt. This was the sort of thing I read with abandon in my impressionable late middle/early high school years, and is probably to blame for my deep lingering affection for anything gothic-tinged. This book has some issues--repetition of certain phrases and themes, and characters who are too stupid to live, mainly--but if you cut it some slack, it's thoroughly enjoyable.
This is not usually a book I would pick up but I remember a friend of mine giving it to me to read but I had never finished it.
I had fond memories of it, so when I found it at the goodwill, practically in pieces too, I gave it a shot and couldn't be more glad that I did!
I would say this is romance with lots of mystery as I couldn't figure out what was going on until it was practically laid out for me at the end.
I so enjoyed this book and plan to read more of her this year.
It's been many years since I last read Victoria Holt, an author known as "the supreme writer of the 'gothic' romance".Mystery, suspense, mystical forests, dark foreboding castles, trickery and folklore legends together with interesting characters made this book a very good read.The story is told from Helena Trant, the heroine's point of view as she recaps her past, a past shrouded in mystery as she tries to uncover exactly what happened to her on the night of the seventh moon — when a festival celebration of mischief took place.
I first read this book probably fifteen years ago.
For those of you who need a basic description, here's what the back of the book says:On the Night of the Seventh Moon, according to ancient Black Forest legend, Loke, the God of Mischief, was abroad in the world.
And it was a night for love.Helena Trant was enchanted by everything she found in the Black Forest--its people, its mysterious castles, its legends and lore.
Especially its legends of love.Until, one day, she started to live one of them and the enchantment turned suddenly into a terrifying nightmare....
Love and Mystery in the Black Forest!Set in Germany and England from 1859 to 1870 (with an end note in 1901), this tells the story of Helena Trant whose parents were so much in love they had little time for her.
But Helena never forgot the man even though she did not know his name.Years later, she returns to Germany and on another night of the seventh moon Helena meets and marries her German at his hunting lodge, but then she wakes from her idyllic honeymoon to discover she has been drugged by a physician who tells her she has escaped a horror that befell her in the forest.
قشنگ بود ، ولی متاسفانه بیش از حد مورد انتظارم هپی اند بود. آخرش هم خیلی سر هم بندی و سریع تموم شده بود. اون همه مقدمات خوب ولی پایان شتابزده وکمی شانسی و خوش خوشکی...
I probably figured out what was going on earlier this time since I've read so many books since I first read this but it was all new the first time through and as a teenager I wasn't quite so savvy.
Still the writing was such that you kept wanting to read to find out for sure what was going on and to get Helena through the bad stuff.It is of course a gothic novel so even though there is a romance the main thrust of the story is the surreal things that are happening to the poor heroine.
Gothic romance for the win XD!Dunno, when I read this book, way back when (six years to be precise anyway) I was thrilled by the time period most of Victoria Holt's books took place in.
I just remember a story, a legend, a mystery, a love, and poor character development (especially on the hero, Maximillian, side).
I also remember I was terrified for Helena's fate because she was asked to spend the night in a castle with a complete and total stranger she found in the forest.
I felt Helena had some character development through the book, but I cannot say the same thing for Maximillian.
Don't expect too much of it, and you'll be pleased.On the Night of the Seventh Moon tells the tale of Helena Trant, the daughter of an English man and a German woman, who grows up in Oxford in the late 1800s, listening to her mother’s tales of the dark German forest where she was educated.
But she never forgets her rescuer, though she knows what his intent was.A few years later, a cousin of her mother’s finds her in Oxford and offers to take her back to live in the Lokenwald again.
از آخرین باری كه کتابی شبیه این رو خوندم و اینجوری خوشم اومد، انگار سالها میگذره. برای همین، داستان واقعاً برام یه چیز قشنگ، تازه و قدیمی و یه جورایی مسکن بود. حالا کاری به اصلش ندارم كه نقد كنم و فلان. امّا یه احساس خوبی و خاصی نسبت بهش دارم. در کُل، فقط میتونم بگم عالی بود. + شباهت كمی به دریای زمین داشت، البّته توی نثر و توصیف ها. + چیز دیگهای به ذهنم نمیرسه!
از آخرین باری كه کتابی شبیه این رو خوندم و این‌جوری خوشم اومد، انگار سال‌ها می‌گذره. برای همین، داستان واقعاً برام یه چیز قشنگ، تازه و قدیمی و یه جورایی مسکن بود. حالا کاری به اصلش ندارم كه نقد كنم و فلان. امّا یه احساس خوبی و خاصی نسبت بهش دارم. در کُل، فقط می‌تونم بگم عالی بود. + شباهت كمی به دریای زمین داشت، البّته توی نثر و توصیف ها. + چیز دیگه‌ای به ذهنم نمی‌رسه!
I probably read this book back in the seventies. That is, the first time. I loved this book so much I bought my own copy and have read it several times. It is a timeless, beautiful romance, with suspense added for an extra emjoyment. Clean and wonderful I highly recommend it.
I ended up liking this a surprising amount. Not even really as a romance--the hero is gone from it so long, and isn't all that vivid. More as a development of the heroine, who suffers a lot, insists on believing her truth, and finally ends up happy. And the setting is beautiful. It all felt way more meaty than The Time of the Hunter's Moon, which I read a few weeks ago, as if Holt had started phoning it in by the time she wrote the latter.
I read these as a teenager and own a lot of them. They are mostly gothic mystery romances. The mystery still catches me up, but the romance is a little dramatic. That is the difference between being a young girl and a 30-something mom! Nothing explicit, but definitely some dramatic love at first sight romance. It's kind of funny to re-read things you read as a teen.
Black forest has always fascinated me. The story seemed to be evolving somewhere there and there was no way I wasn't buying this book! Reminded me of my school days when reading historical romance was the only thi g to do! Glib story, with romance and drama but happy ending :)
I have read this book several times. It is one of my all time favorites! :)
Love and Mystery in the Black Forest!Set in Germany and England from 1859 to 1870 (with an end note in 1901), this tells the story of Helena Trant whose parents were so much in love they had little time for her.
But Helena never forgot the man even though she did not know his name.Years later, she returns to Germany and on another night of the seventh moon Helena meets and marries her German at his hunting lodge, but then she wakes from her idyllic honeymoon to discover she has been drugged by a physician who tells her she has escaped a horror that befell her in the forest.
I had never read a Victoria Holt book, and since there are so many, I chose the one that seemed to receive the best reviews.
It was a quick summer read, but certainly not the page turner others described.
Her chosen settings were ripe for rich description, but again, Holt failed to hit the mark, only adequately describing both the prim British home and bookshop and the lush enchanted German forest.
The plot was the best component, but so much more could have been made of it.
I would give this novel a C, but I don't think I'll choose to read another book by this author.
It's been ages since I devoured a Victoria Holt book - Probably late teens, early 20s.
This book was just as I remembered her stories.
A great easy read for those times when you don't want anything too challenging but has a bit of substance (I'm a sucker for a bit of historical fiction -- romantic or otherwise).
I enjoyed this read.
The characters were engaging (although I didn't like Frau Grauben very much) and the setting was interesting.
Great for a rainy day, or those nights when you're really tired but just want something to read to send you off into dreamland.
It has been a VERY long time since I've read any Victoria Holt books, but I remember that I loved getting them from the library and this one was no exception. She has a formula that works for a quick light read and I have yet to be disappointed by it. Don't expect to have your mind blown or challenged, but great read for by the pool or on the beach.
This is my favorite book of all time. I first read this book in high school for a class and have read it several times since. It is an old fashioned gothic romance that has a wonderful ending. I love Victoria Holt as an author and believe this book is by far her best. It includes some romance, some mystery, some sadness, some happiness . . .
I LOVE this book! When I started reading it, I really didn't like where I thought it was going, but I ended up LOVING where it actually went! You just have to have a little faith and keep plugging along and in the end its a really fun love story! I can't wait to read it again!
Interesting book. If you want to feel like you are losing your mind as bad as the poor heroine thinks she is, I highly recommend this book! It will transport you to another world, filled with superstition and magic, lies and half truths, suspense and intrigue.
Actual Rating: 2.5 StarsI'm giving this book a very mid-ranged rating, because while it had a frustratingly over-dramatic romance, a frustratingly one-tracked heroine, and a frustratingly exasperating set of characters...
even while the entire ordeal was completely predictable.I disliked a lot of the characters, and I disliked how blasé Frau Graber treated all the deaths, attempted murders, deception, lies, betrayals, and indifference of the nobility to these events; blowing them off as it being simply the culture in their country, and that everything was just about "state affair" and nothing to get worked up about.
But, alas, there were NO Victoria Holt books to be found.
So I purchased a kindle copy.This is a book that will appeal to any lover of historic romantic mysteries.
It has no sex scenes so can be shared with a daughter, granddaughter or teenage acquaintance.The book description and the sample available to be read for free on Amazon or sent to your kindle tell you the premise of the story.
Sigh!Victoria Holt tells a great story.
I highly recommend it to those with a taste for a good romance/mystery.
This book can be looked at two ways, as a hundred pages too long and annoying because every scene, feeling, and situation gets repeated at least three times, or, as for a reader who likes to savor the experience and step fully into the world of the novel.
I loved the ending pages again too - I really like how Victoria Holt doesn't always end with happily ever after or merely falling in love, but with mature decisions to love in spite of imperfections and reality.
ON THE NIGHT OF THE SEVENTH MOON by Victoria Holt is a fairy tale set in the years 1859 to 1870 in Germany.
Next morning, the old woman takes her back to her boarding school.And there thing would have ended, except that he cannot forget her.This plot bears some similarity to THE TIME OF THE HUNTERS MOON, also by Victoria Holt, but instead of a young man and his sister working to murder wealthy young women to inherit their fortunes, ON THE NIGHT OF THE SEVENTH MOON is a tale of true love.
This novel is old-school gothic romance at its best!
I started reading Victoria Holt books in my teens.
The writing is as good as I remember and the book passes the test of time.
The setting is beautiful--the Black Forest area of Germany and the time period is 1860s.
The story is written in the first-person so you only get Helena's insight but this was the usual for books of this nature book in the hayday of gothics.
I loved the story and could not put the book down.
I have read many Holt books but this is one of my favorites.
