https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29393.Our_Band_Could_Be_Your_Life
as a kid i assumed punk & hardcore was right-wing music; from the safe confines of long island it seemed the nose-ringed & mohawked or shirtless & skinheaded were all about death and destruction and i naturally figured they'd be so inclined to support the party which always seemed to advocate dropping bombs and throwing some 'fuck you' to the poor -- yeah, dead wrong about the punks and a bit of a caricature regarding the grand ol' party.
the thing i hate about punk and hardcore, ironically, is that it all just smacks of such good taste.
stooges - fun house4.
This one took me a while to get through and occasionally led to existential crises in the nature of, "WHY AM I READING A 50 PAGE CHAPTER ABOUT THE BUTTHOLE SURFERS WHEN THERE ARE PEOPLE FIGHTING FOR DEMOCRACY IN THE MIDDLE EAST?"There are certainly places where this book delves into "More information than I could possibly need about people I really don't care about." But overall, this is a fascinating reading experience, and I think just about any level of information a reader goes in with (as long as they have some interest) they will find some new information and insight.I found the structure of the book particularly effective, because it's divided into chapters that cover the story arcs of the individual bands.
Powerful.Minor Threat – I’m sure I heard them during my claustrophobic frat party years, but I have no memory, even after listening to a few of their tunes while reading their chapter.
I will probably pick up You’re Living All Over Me, which I think I’ll like.Fugazi – I don’t recall ever hearing a Fugazi tune, though I’m sure I have on WKDU.
I like their raw rock out approach, but I’m not too intrigued and doubt I’ll explore them further than an occasional listen on Spotify or Youtube.Beat Happening – Being a long-time Jonathan Richman fan I immediately linked the two when I started reading their chapter.
I guess that is the book's strength, and its entire reason for existing: documenting a whole bunch of assholes and taking them seriously, even at their most hapless and idiotic.
Explaining away Ian Mackaye's and Henry Rollins early, weird race things as "misunderstandings" wastes a good chance to actually talk about what they meant.
I guess this book is good at being the book that it is, and most of my annoyance and disappointment that it is not the book that it is not.
They're mentioned several times, but don't merit their own chapter) but overall this is a great way to learn about a lot of bands you don't know, or learn more about bands you thought you knew all about.
The way the book is constructed forms a roughly chronological timeline, with bands and labels dovetailing neatly into each others' stories.
If I had read this book when I was 18, I probably would have started my own record label.
But if I knew an 18-year-old who had aspirations of being in a band, or starting their own label, or what have you, this is the book I'd put in their clammy little hands.

I have read the chapters on Black Flag and The Minutemen and am loving this book.
I also found an eerie parallel to my own life's arc during the late '80s through the early '90s--the book starts with Black Flag, a decidedly Southern California band, and ends in Seattle with the explosion and implosion of SubPop and its bands.
As a kid growing up in Southern California I was very aware of Black Flag's influence and I loved the Minutemen and later fIREHOSE.
This book is really only for the hard-core music fans.
What I love best about this one this is that this book is purely about true indie bands.
These were the bands that didn't want to sign with major-labels bc they felt it would sacrifice their integrity and the integrity of the music.
But I can guarantee you with the way Azerrad writes the personal history of these bands, you're going to at least want to hear the music afterward.
Only the very dedicated appreciate such stories, bc at one point they were one of those handful of dedicated fans.
While it's not perfect, it's essential reading for anyone interested in independent music, be it of the era covered by this book (1981-1991) or today.
I think anyone who is or was remotely interested in aggressive independent music (be it punk rock, hardcore, metal, etc) will be instantly transported back in time when the doctrinal approach of Black Flag or Minor Threat is discussed.
That's another major theme here: the very idea of Nirvana was impossible without a bands like Black Flag, The Minutemen or Minor Threat.
They also inspired this kinda white-trashy kid from Aberdeen, WA who borrowed their ideas and mixed it with a dose of late '70s cock-rock and an instinctive knack for pop song-craft and eventually put together an album that presented the previous decade's underground ideas in an accessible but not too dumbed-down manner, sold a bajillion copies, and made it briefly appear that the underground could make the mainstream adopt to their culture.
Of course that kid from Aberdeen decided it was better to burn out three years later, and his main musical legacy appears to be with bands that never grasped the underground structure underlying those songs, and thought they could get by with growling vocals over power riffs.
Azerad profiles bands like Black Flag, Minutemen, Mission of BUrma, Butthole Surfers, Sonic Youth, Big BLack, Minor Threat, The Replacements, Fugazi, BEat Happening, Mudhoney, and Dinosaur Jr. It's the royaly of 80s underground music in America.
Profiling bands like Black Flag and The Minutement, Minor Threat, the authors shows the development of an underground national network--a network that was developed by the people in the bands and their fans.
Overall, the book is a non-nostalgic look (although some readers may get nostalgic after reading it) at what was happeneing below the surface of American music.
I would've been totally shocked if I didn't love this book.
With that said, I wound up enjoying it even more than I anticipated.
The bands, record labels, and general era in the history of music described here are all favorites of mine.
It's so cool seeing all these great college rock bands crossing paths, witnessing their internal drama, and seeing indie rock as we know it ascend to a place of prominence.
One of the best books on music I've ever read and I'd recommend it to anyone who's ever enjoyed music on the left side of the dial.
It is really good, at times brilliant, though there are structural issues--tough ones, not ones I could even imagine solving--that ultimately keep the book from being as transcendent as the bands it chronicles.In the late 1970s, American music companies were focused on popular hits and old dinosaurs, reluctant to plunge into new music, especially the developing hardcore (read: punk) scene.
I've always thought music writing was pretentious, boring, and not very good, but Our Band Could Be Your Life has proven me wrong.
Each band profiled in this book has such a different story to tell - from minor but fulfilling failures to bright but fast-burning successes and everything in between - that it doesn't feel to far-fetched to say that this history of the indie scene from 1981 to 1991 reads like a deconstruction of the American dream.
More than once I was swept up in Azerrad's descriptions of a band's sound before I even heard the music and my first thought would be, "I have to stop what I'm doing RIGHT NOW and get a hold of some of this!".
I liked the chapters on Black Flag, The Minutemen, and the Butthole Surfers the best, but was a bit bored with those on Husker Du and The Replacements because I was never terribly interested in their music.
But aside from a few embarrassing descriptions of music (which I almost always dislike, no matter what), there's a lot of good information and stories about a group of influential bands, though I might have collapsed the Minor Threat and Fugazi chapters into one and added Bikini Kill if I were writing it.
Surprisingly disappointing collection of stories about bands I suddenly remembered I didn't care all that much about in the first place.
I had read about all my favorites -- the Replacements, Husker Du, Minutemen -- while standing in the aisles of Barnes and Noble, so I had already hit the high points.
After a couple of chapters, the stories kinda meld into one -- two weirdos meet in high school and start playing songs, then meet another goofball and go on tour; they aren't very good and the audience either reacts with complete apathy or violent disdain; then they sign with SST, but they don't sell a lot of records, they become hopelessly addicted to drugs and alcohol, and break up to the distress of no one; but their influence far outstrips their commercial success and they are legendary in retrospect.
For anyone even remotely interested in indie rock, I'd call this an essential read, and throughout I kept wishing that Michael Azerrad would do similar profiles of '90s bands like Modest Mouse and Yo La Tengo.
Even if you don't like the music here (and I hate some of it), the stories regarding the different bands are excellent and are masterfully structured to where those without any knowledge of indie rock could read and enjoy this book.
Early in the this book Azerrad spent a bit of time building up the bands he loves by insulting bands like Genesis and Yes, which annoyed me since I happen to like a lot of prog rock in addition to the punk and indie music covered in this book.
I liked the structure of the book, with chapters being just about the right length to give good depth to each band, but not so much that it became tedious or boring.
The Replacements were utter fuckups, and yet managed to squeak out some pretty good tunes, although I don't hold them in as high regard as a lot of other people.
Exhaustive. This book took me forever to read. My favorite chapters: The Minutemen, The Replacements, Dinosaur Jr, Mudhoney. My least favorite chapters: Black Flag, Big Black, Butthole Surfers. I think the main thing I learned from this book is almost everyone in a band is an asshole. And also men are big fucking babies/martyrs. I’ve never read a book that made me want to be in a band any less. It seems like a miserable existence. I’m still giving it four stars because it is well researched and illuminating. But damn, it sure is about a lot of annoying dudes.
You'll not only get a hint of how the crews in question got going, but perhaps learn about a band or two that you didn't know about.The other thing that struck me about the book was the way it portrayed the indie/punk work ethic as being a model for anyone to follow, whatever their creative channel.
Don't wait for someone to give you permission to matter.
Book your own gigs.
D.I.Y. You may never get rich, famous, or laid, but you'll be all the world to that handful of few that really matter.
Even worse, they begat a slew of equally bad bands, the most notable being Minor Threat, fronted by Ian MacKaye, who brought a peculiar brand of irrational fascism to his notion of various forms of abstinence (in truth, he was very repressed and could not see that the milk and soda his ilk preferred was as or more harmful than the drugs, alcohol and sex they eschewed; he was, in short, as poor a thinker as he was a musician and also a thug who seemed to get off on the violence nearly as much as his childhood pal Rollins).
In the brief introduction, Azerrad characterizes the struggle indie music faced as against the system, opposing the status quo, tearing down the regime--all well and good when you're talking about the Reagan era--but the problem is that it's none of that.
So couching this struggle in terms of "tearing down the major label system" is disingenuous at best.Azerrad covers interesting bands of varying degrees of success and notoriety.
(Beat Happening may not fall into this pattern, but they're also the least well-known of all the bands covered, so they can be labeled the outlier.) The first time Azerrad explores each template it's interesting; by the 10th or 11th time it's just dull.In summary: I can't, in good conscience, recommend this book to friends unless they're specifically huge fans of these particular bands.

And it set the template for much that that characterized the careers of the bands that followed; and when Ginn finally draws a line through the band's name, it's pretty melancholy.
And almost all the profiles in the book are this good.I bought the book because I'm thinking about writing something set in that world, but I read it for the sheer joy of seeing a writer come fully to grips with his material and make the reader understand what great, vital material it is.
Azerrad also does a nice job with profiles of some of the big figures in the movement, and I learned a ton about guys I didn't know much about, like Ian MacKaye and Calvin Johnson.Where the book falls down a little bit, for me, is with Azerrad's attempts at musical analysis, which gets pretty cringey at times.
I also go frequently annoyed at the straw man arguments/putdowns of other kinds of music/bands at the time (it's really okay to like Queen and punk rock, I promise), and the righteous justification of some often shitty behavior of the musicians at the time.
Every single piece of music writing I've ever read always falls into that ridiculous and annoying hyperbolic bullshit of like "X's bass notes and Y's pummeling drum attack both thunder like a million Brontosauruses on acid, while Z's gravelly yelp is reminiscent of a bestial and barbaric war cry circa 231 BC." Every single piece.
I got to thinking that a book like this -- fairly exhaustive and well-researched -- has to be a labor of love; its author must necessarily just ache for these bands, or else the book would never be written.
Recommended reading for anyone who likes good music.
Despite the fact that I am sure I would have been really into them at the time, I asked for (and received) this book for Christmas my Junior year (and didn't read it until, like, 6 years later) when I didn't really listen to any of these bands.
This is just another super example of me reading about stuff that was written for fans but I'm just reading it as a history of a scene (see: We Got The Neutron Bomb, another Spin recommendation).
It's really enjoyable to read a fan/experts take on the Indie scene.
(not conforming to the Blink 182 pervasive riffs of VP "pop punk")- Bands like Black Flag and Minutemen establishing the series of small clubs across the country and then Husker Du and Big Black taking mini Midwest tours to Madison, Illinois college towns, etc.
check (exchanging shows with Pilots Provided and Driftless Pony Club, sleeping on eachother's floors when in town)I'm sure there are more similarities, but since they're likely interesting only to me I'll cut this short.
If you agree, have similar stories about your experiences, or have read the book I'd be interested to hear what you think.
It covers the bands and indie labels that evolved into some of my favorite music of all time.The author has a chapter on each band covered in the book, from Black Flag to Beat Happening and everyone in between.
My favorite chapters were on Mudhoney (an excellent history of the Seattle scene and Sub Pop's rise and fall) and Dinosaur Jr. It was also great to read about labels like Sub Pop, SST, K, Homestead, Dischord and Touch & Go (among others) and how they really made a huge impact on the indie scene.
I initially bought the book because I was listening to some of the 1980s underground bands that were featured in it, like Husker Du, Black Flag, and The Replacements, and wanted to learn more about them.
Instead, I found that the stories about how the indie underground was founded to be more interesting.
Learning more about the economics of the industry (of the lack thereof), and what it was exactly like to play music in those days.
I'd recommend reading if you want to learn more about the 1980s bands that don't suck from that time.
