https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/37435.The_Secret_Life_of_Bees
This is SO not the kind of book I normally read.
It's the kind of book my mother reads.
You know the type I'm talking about: "Reviving Ophelia", "Not Without My Daughter"...mother-y books.
But when she gave me this book I happened to have a lot of time on my hands, so I determined to read it just to humor her, and braced myself for a sickeningly bittersweet learn-about-yourself Ya Ya Sisterhood fiasco.
Totally not for everyone, but it's good, and it's stayed with me all this time.
Honestly, The Secret Life of Bees has to be one of the best books I've read in a while.
There was romance, love, family, racial issues, religious experiences, and bees.I have a feeling the title may deter a lot of people thinking that, oh, it's a book about bees!
*wink wink*Sue Monk Kidd mentioned about possibly writing a sequel, possibly after she finishes writing her current work in progress The Mermaid Chair (which, if she continues writing like she did in this book, I will gobble up as soon as it comes out).
Sue Monk Kidd - image from her FB pagesThe Secret Life of Bees is a lovely tale.
Ray and Rosaleen, the woman who raised her after her mother died when Lily was 4.
It is certainly no coincidence that Lily (as in white) spends most of the book in the company of earth-mother black people.
She uses clues found in materials left by her mother and winds up in another South Carolina town, in the home of the Calendar Sisters (August, June and May).
There she learns about bee-keeping and mothering.
Lily, a motherless 14-year-old girl lives with her bigoted abusive father on a peach farm in South Carolina.
If the story had been written from anyone else's point of view, Lily would have been pathetic: abused motherless little girl who harbors way too much guilt and angst.
For a nice chunk of the book, Lily is on the lam with her black housekeeper Rosaleen, traipsing through 1960s South Carolina after busting Rosaleen out of jail for offending some white guys.
Lily bought it, though, and that was enough to keep me reading.The whole book was a quest for independence, I think.
It's a book about mothers.
I can't readily connect to most of those other topics, but everyone on the planet knows what it's like to have--or need--a mother in their lives.The other part I loved about this book is the writing style.
I've read very few books with such fanastic, simple imagery and accessible symbolism.
I wish I underlined all my favorite metaphors in the book (like the dragonflies stitching the air) and I loved the parallels between the bee colonies and the women living in the pink house.
It's books like these that make me want to write.
The Secret Life of Bees tells the story of a 14-year-old white girl, Lily Melissa Owens, whose life has been shaped around the blurred memory of the afternoon her mother was killed.
There, they buy lunch at a general store, and Lily recognizes a picture of the same "Black Mary" but on the side of a jar of honey.
They are introduced to the Boatwright sisters, the makers of the honey: August, May, and June, who are all black.
Lily and Rosaleen are invited to stay with the sisters.
لی‌لی به همراه دایه‌ اش به شهر می‌رود، و از خانه می‌گریزد.
But as a story teller, occasional writing class instructor, I like to keep up with some of the new fiction.
Some readers on Goodreads and Amazon had trouble with such things as the bee quotes at the start of each chapter being a bit obvious, the religious theme (didn't state but I'm sure it has to do with the women eating cake as the body of Mary), the triteness of a coming of age story and some of the characterization (ie: stereotypical African / American women) and so forth, but I believe these are more personal problems than problems with the story.
This was a harmless, heart warming book that did not change my life or enrich my thinking in any large way - except perhaps that I am slightly less afraid of bees.
Here is the formula: 1 caucasian person, hurt and broken by the world they live in, be it by family, work or environment + 1 minority culture (black or asian is fine) = that one caucasian person finding the true wonders in life and becoming a more secure and happy human being after being surrounded by drove of their black or yellow or red skinned friends, who show them beauty and love such as a white person has never known.
Thank you minority culture!
Sue Monk Kidd's explosively popular (I'm going to go out on a very sturdy limb and guess that this was an Oprah book) The Secret Life of Bees is a perfectly enjoyable read that any mother would love.
Halfway through I wanted nothing more than to curl up in my cardy on the couch with a cuppa herbal something-or-other and sip the sweet nectar of these succulent words.
They flowed like honey: sweet, warm, and slow…Oh so slow at times.
The soft ideas about religion, love and the mother-daughter bond hum against your ears, the buzz of thought never going beyond a distant whirring zzzzzzzz.
The racial prejudice in South Carolina in the 1960s was oppressive and cruel – Lily couldn’t work out why skin colour made such a difference.With no plan other than to get away from her home town of Sylvan, Lily and Rosaleen headed in the general direction of Tiburon.
As Lily worked with August and the bees, and Rosaleen in the kitchen with May, Lily found herself confused and lost.
She was a white girl living among coloured women – her heart felt soft with love toward these women, but the white population of the town didn’t understand.
Is it ever not going to be problematic to have a book about a young white girl finding nurturing black mother figures in the South?
Also the part where the black women are mostly there to mother the young white girl, and all of their differences tend to come down to eccentricities.
They find themselves in a small town in South Carolina, where they are both more or less adopted into the family of three black women, sisters, August, June, and May. Lily struggles with how to tell the sisters who she really is and why she's there, as well as anger and guilt about her mother and father.
Filled with a cast of eccentric characters, Lily runs away with Rosaleen, a black servant, and finds herself in a beekeeper's sanctuary, where secrets come spilling out of the closet for a cymbal-clashing ending.
Although rendered very close to the voice of a believable pre-teen, the prose is riddled with cliches and mawkishness and characters who liked to stare off into the distance whenever a dramatic moment came to pass.
There were also great dramatic moments, when the stories surrounding desegregation rose to the fore (although the style tended to underdramatize these sections).
Set in 1964 at Sylvan, South Carolina, the Secret Life of Bees tells the coming-of-age story of Lily Owens whose life has been nothing but a struggle after her mother’s unexpected death.Heartwarming and empowering, Kidd took me on a journey of self-acceptance, faith, and freedom.In a time of growing racial tension and violence, I found a touching story of a young girl in a bee farm with an endearing set of characters.
I just wish I could have read more of each character’s backgrounds.Sue Monk Kidd's debut novel is beautiful no doubt.
Not always a good sign; particularly when the reason I am looking for material is that the only other house options are natural health and yoga magazines, as I am a dedicated chainsmoker with terrible posture.
But while I was looking for short and sweet plot, this book knocked me about the head with near-narcoleptic tropes about culture, color, gender and otherness.
Did you know that every poor white in the south beats their children and/or is criminally negligent?
Did you know that black folk are all like, all proud and exotic, even the womenfolk?!?
Did you know this is bullshit, Sue Monk Kidd?
the pacing is terrible, the characterization is spotty, cliched, and rarely believeable, and there is so much shlocky dime-store 'wisdom' stuffed into the pages that it's a wonder anything ever actually happens, plot-wise.
when the older women tells the child that she loved a man once, but loved her freedom more - well, that was the best line in the book.
or crappy cliches about men who are the center of the universe and women who simply revolve around them, washing their clothes and exclaiming over the size of their dicks.
I really enjoyed the story about a growing girl finding her way during a difficult time in history to the family she was always meant to have.
Lily is trying to uncover her mother's past while dealing with some recent trouble with her caretaker Rosaleen.
May, the sweet but troubled one.
The sisters take her and Rosaleen into their home, becoming more to this girl than you could imagine: a family of choice.
There's a controversial love interest with a boy named Zack who is black, Lily being white.
Safety: Nothing overtly sexual between Lily and Zack.
I hesitantly picked up this book based upon numerous recommendations; frankly, the back of the book blurb just didn't sound like my sort of thing.
That said, however, Sue Monk Kidd completely made me change my tune.
While this book isn't perfect, I was completely enchanted by the writing, the pacing, and the careful observation.
Do I have nitpicks with the book?
Because I'm only reviewing my favorite books -- not every book I read.
Consider a novel's presence on my Goodreads bookshelf as a hearty endorsement.
I can't believe I just said "hearty." It sounds like a stew.***
But now I feel a little conflicted because god damn, I hate stereotypes and I'm usually the first to jump up-and-down and shake my fist.I loved Lily, I have been struggling to actually like a protagonist in a novel for a long while, so was pleased when I took to Lily immediately.
I found most of the book to be highly original and kept reading not only because of Kidd's great use of words, but because I really have not ever read anything like this before!
It’s a story about Lily, a 14 year old in the racist American South.
Oh yeah, must be the story!Except for the 3 May sisters, all the characters had less life than carbon cut outs.
Lily sounds nothing like a 14 year old.
She is either drowned in sadness over her mother or is busy checking out the hot Zack guy.
If you just kick out lily, and events relating to her then the novel would be absolutely enchanting.
2.5 stars Ps: Although this has nothing to do with the book’s real story, I must mention that I find bees very interesting.
The bee song was amazing too!
4  stars. They say you can’t judge a book by its cover. Weird, lately that’s what I’ve been doing and it’s working... All the hype brought me to it; the cover and title hooked me. A great story chock full of symbolism, I suppose it’s like an adult Aesop’s fable featuring bees. Timeline early sixties, place racially-charged South Carolina, it’s an inspirational and decidedly feminist book with an interesting touch of spiritualism. The courageous story of a young girl’s escape from a bitter and ab
They say you can’t judge a book by its cover.
A great story chock full of symbolism, I suppose it’s like an adult Aesop’s fable featuring bees.
Footnote: Like all gardening fanatics, I’m a sucker for bees; loved their inclusion and had great fun with all the symbolism surrounding queen bees, hives and honey.
Every little thing wants to be loved""It takes a bee 10 million trips to collect enough nectar to make 1 pound of honey"“I watched their wings shining like bits of chrome in the dark and felt the longing build in my chest.
The novel is full of stereotypes - 99% of the white male figures are abusive bastards, the girl's father is an ogre with no redeeming features.
A female black servant responds strongly to three antagonizing white males and even spits on their shoes - such herocism works good in movies, but most propably would have ended less than well for the woman..
Lily escapes from her own father to be accepted without question by the black women; and in the end she won't care much about her own mother because she found new mother figures, all black of course.
The characters often feel unoriginal, including a sassy black nanny; a smart, yet under-valued girl who dreams of being a writer; and a roughneck southern farmer.
While the small details of beekeeping and the black Madonna keep the book from being totally a flop, it would have benefitted from a better narrative point of view: having it being told in the moment or from a further distance than 3 months past.
With a less than loving father, it seems the only hope she will have is to cling to the memory of her deceased mother in hopes that she had loved Lily before her death.
Needless to say, the Boatwright sisters are unique in every way and as they welcome Lily and Rosaleen into their lives, Lily begins to feel as if she never wants to leave.
This was a heartwarming story about people learning the meaning of love and how to love.
The story has a nice flow and was enjoyable throughout, and as a bonus, I did learn some interesting facts about bees!
To me, the difference between is a good book and a great book is whether you have to suspend disbelief or whether you just believe.
(I will say that the movie looks like it’s going to fit into the trite and maudlin mold.) Imagine my surprise when I found the novel to be so great.
I didn’t need to suspend disbelief; I believed.I think this is a book for every girl and woman to read.
Fortunately, I was wrong.One more thing; having read the book, I have absolutely no desire to see the movie.
And, I cannot imagine the movie adding anything to the richness of the novel.
What starts off as a quiet story about a young girl in South Carolina, turns into a strong tale of race, prejudice, and finding love in the most unexpected places.
Lily Owens' mother died when she was 4 from an accident with a gun and Lily has always felt responsible.
Her mothers death left her in the care of her abusive father who she calls T-ray and their housekeeper Rosaleen - Lily's only friend.
When racial tension explodes in their local town and Rosaleen is arrested, she and Lily run away, to Tiburon, SC - a place name Lily found on one of her mothers possessions.
4.5 stars, such a heart warming book.

While blood might be thicker than water, sometimes it's the family we choose to belong to whose ties can't be broken.The story revolves around 14 year old Lily Owens and is at times, dark.
But as Lily tries to make sense of her life and tries to find another way, she meets some amazingly strong and loving women who show her what a real family is about.The Secret Life of Bees is a well written story that flows seamlessly.
The characters are people who charm their way into your heart with their quirky personalities, their deep sense of honor, traditions and values, and the keen ability to see the truth in all things.
One of my favorites. I didn't want to put it away and was sad when it was over.
As is often the case when I am coming late to a best seller, I really don’t know much about the book other than it is a must read.
We have the maternal black woman substituting for the dead white mother caring for the plain young girl with a much to be desired father.
I hadn’t been out to the hives before, so to start off she gave me a lesson in what she called “bee yard etiquette.” She reminded me that the world was really one big bee yard, and the same rules worked fine in both places: Don’t be afraid, as no life-loving bee wants to sting you.
