https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23232.The_Realm_of_Possibility
As expected of David Levithan, what's more is that we are given a diverse array of characters; and I can always trust this author to bring the best GLBTQ+ stories, that are not only authentic but also incredibly touching.
There are others that I liked too such as The Day and Tinder Heart, but honestly, all of them touched me in some way, and only authors like David Levithan can seem to do that with verse.Another thing that I'd like to add is that not one poem follows the same type of free verse.
OMG!
Levithan is a genius.
This book, a novel in verse, has 20 narrators, all students at the same high school.
Each tells his or her own story, and they all are inter-related.
Some are friends, some are enemies, some are romantic interests.
As always, Levithan includes gay and lesbian characters with respect and affection.
Each student has a distinctive voice and we grow to love all of them.
To fully see the relationships, I created a chart to show whose story was whose, who they liked and didn't like, who they mentioned...this is such a layered work.
I loved it.
Maybe it's because it hones in on the point and it's all laid out within a few stanzas instead of meandering about.Whatever the reason, The Realm of Possibility was no exception and I was constantly pulled through a rollercoaster of emotions - even though I admittedly didn't always get what was going on :)This is definitely the kind of book that you either love or hate, both for the fact that it's in verse and because David Levithan has a very unique writing style (that I happen to love the more I encounter it).
I didn't know this novel was written in verse when I borrowed it from my library, but no matter, I love the format and David Levithan certainly has solid poetry-writing skills.The Realm of Possibility is a collection of 20 stories told by the students of the same school, each written in its distinct voice and style - song lyrics, linebroken prose, free verse, etc.
It is a pleasant surprise that Levithan didn't resort to writing some sob stories and melodramas.
Being a teenager is such a time of possibility.
In The Realm of Possibility, David Levithan presents 20 different poems, from 20 different characters, all illustrating the different problems and thoughts that teenagers have.This is not the kind of book I would pick up..
I'm just not one for poetry!
I really felt some of the poems, related to them, learned something from them.
Its always really important to look at different perspectives, and this book emphasized that.Why not five stars?
Poetry is just not my thing, peeps.
I did enjoy a bunch of the poems, but I also found a lot of them boring and sometimes even pretentious.
And they talk about stuff.
So much is covered in this book, such as eating disorders, boys who feel the need to be big and strong, sex, homosexuality, and all that jazz.
Basically, the reason this gets such a low rating is that the characters would each talk for about ten pages (which, in verse, isn't very much.) and then it would move on to the next character without me having any attachment to the character at all.
Honestly, you don't have much of an emotional connection with any of the characters by the end of the book.
Really, the only character names I even remember out of the 20+ are Jed, Daniel, and Pete.
Saya butuh sesuatu yang fresh dan tidak lazim bagi saya, dan akhirnya saya bertemu dengan buku kumpulan cerita yang disusun seperti bait bait dalam puisi tapi ternyata tiap ceritanya saling berhubungan ini.
Bagi saya format dengan multiple PoV di buku ini mirip dengan Everyday (atau Everyday yang mirip buku ini, gak tau deh), tapi yang membuat fresh adalah, isi buku ini ditulis dalam bentuk puisi, dan saya tidak familiar dengan puisi.
On the inside : puisi untuk para jomblo yang nasibnya stuck, tidak beranjak dari friendzone, dan hanya bisa menangis dalam hati melihat gebetannya jadian dengan orang lain yang sebenarnya gak pantas buat si gebetan tersebut.
This book may look odd at first.
You flip through the pages and find that it looks more like a collection of poetry than a novel.
I found myself trying to keep track of the name of the character while reading each poem-like prose.
Reading this book is less about the story and more about the emotions and thoughts.
Reading this book is like reading journal entries of individuals bearing their hearts.
I've read Levithan's "Boy Meets Boy".
It isn't written like most other books, but if you open your heart you'll get the hang of it in no time.
Read this book four months ago and  still  trying to think of a suitable review.But I've decided that I can't.I just can't.This book has too many sides, too many stories interwoven to form a lovely nest and too many topics for me to cover in a review.And that's why I loved it.I would have called it the best of 2017 but I'm afraid another book has taken its place.In a high school, you always find questionable characters, lonely people, evil friends, backbiters, depressed kids, suicidal thoughts, bullies, victims and more.
Where uni life demands more attention and more seriousness, high school life is like living in a trance; you want it to both end and not end.And to voice out these feelings, the author speaks to us through twenty voices.
That’s exactly the case with David Levithan, after I read Every Day. I fell in love with his writing style - it’s simple yet beautiful, and poetic in a way.
One of the first books that came to my attention was The Realm of Possibility, which again blew me away with its writing.I’m not a huge fan of poetry, so at first I was a little skeptic of the format of the book’s prose.
Written in free-verse poetry, meaning there’s no rhyme or other patterns, the book is comprised of numerous small chapters, each told in a different voice.
"I often feel I am living in fragments, skipping Over words, leaving the rest of the sentenceBlank in order to move to the next page.Maybe there is hope in fragments, that what is lostCan always be filled in by someone who knows."Every person is a planet with an atmosphere, that sometimes collides or fuses with other ones.
If this book shows anything, it's that we never know what really goes on in people's minds, even when we think we figured it out (like we think in high school, where everything seems predictable).
The life in someone's atmosphere doesn't give us the clues we imagine as to what's happening on or in a planet itself.
How to Be AloneRemember that at any given momentThere are a thousand thingsYou can love this is my favorite david levithan book (which is saying something) and one of my favorite contemporaries. i've read it a million times and every time i appreciate something new! Ignoring all the strange roads that led to usbeing in the same time and place, there is stillthe simple impossibility of love. That all of ourcontradicting securities and insecurities,interests and disinterests, beliefs and doubtsco
How to Be AloneRemember that at any given momentThere are a thousand thingsYou can love
this is my favorite david levithan book (which is saying something) and one of my favorite contemporaries. i've read it a million times and every time i appreciate something new!
  Ignoring all the strange roads that led to usbeing in the same time and place, there is stillthe simple impossibility of love. That all of ourcontradicting securities and insecurities,interests and disinterests, beliefs and doubtscould somehow translate into this commonuncommon affection should be as impossibleas walking to the moon. But instead, I love him.
This book seemed extremely promising especially since it is a David Levithan book, but I am completely done reading about Teenagers who believe that their life is terrible(When it is pretty much regular) and go on Complaining about it. The issues mentioned here are so goddamn petty that I couldn't help rolling my eyes .It's hard to believe that I was a teenager just two years ago ! I feel so old and matured already .
this book is a fantastic work of art.
20 separate people, united in this book, tell a story that is more than just about them, but about their school, society, friendship, love, and being a teenager.
so many teens write poetry, and it seems to be a perfect way to communicate in this book.
the writing is amazing - the voices of each individual are so clear and yet the book is cohesive.
oh, jed, i love you.
The words that matter always stay." "You think you know your possibilities.Then other people come into your lifeand suddenly there are so many more."READ THIS.
It's David Levithan, what do you expect?
"You think you know your possibilities. Then other people come into your life and suddenly there are so much more"
This was a great experience! Such a wonderful book. I loved how it starts with Daniel and ends with Jed.
The main issue I had with The Realm of Possibility is that I couldn't keep track of the characters throughout the book.
See the poems in that section went in order of those characters listed at the verrrrrry beginning.
I was constantly having to flip back and forth throughout the book just so I could recall which character I was reading.However, there was one character that stood out to me.I cannot recall her name, but she was the girl who invited the "metalhead" to church with her.
But that boy was not comfortable with himself.
For two weeks out of that one month, I haven't exactly been reading it, since I haven't even touched it for once.
I've always loved poetry, I just couldn't really think of a specific book to read with poems.
I ordered this book solely based on other people's reviews and because of the cover, and oh my glob, I'm such a lucky person for picking this specific book to buy.
The stories in this book are so real and accurate, the situations could happen to any of us on any day.
On the one hand, it works: poetry is so personal, and it brings out the different voices in this interlinked collection -- and being poetry, some of it is very dense and allusive.
I enjoyed figuring out the links between poems, who knew who, and where and why their lives overlapped.On the other hand, I prefer my poetry to be very dense and allusive, more so than in most of these.
I think if it were all written like that, you'd lose all individuality of the voices, so it's probably for the best.I liked the whole range of people and personalities, all warm and handled with respect.
It's 20 interrelated prose-poems, each from a different character's POV, and as the book progresses we pick up different plotlines through hints back to earlier events in earlier poems (though some go nowhere, and that really annoyed me).
The poems are a bit hit and miss in quality, and the stories they tell are the same, but there's a lot of heart in the characters.
I particularly liked Anton and Gail's story - I thought the voices were very well brought out for the two characters, and that Gail's response was beautifully touching.
This is a book that should be in the library of every high school and middle school. All kinds of teenage relationships, problems and possibilities are explored in short autobiographical-style segments. The writing is sparse and lucid, and illuminates without preaching and with a minimum of sentimentality. There is hope, pain, acceptance, fear and love, and the clear message that all possibilities are human and shared. Highly recommended reading for adults too.
Beautiful. A story of love told through poems of many voices—boys and girls from the same high school—trying out life and love and everything in between. Read it and smile and remember yourself at that age. We've all been there.
3.5 srars rounded down to 3.
It's fascinating to get a bite-sized chunk of someone's life, people you know and didn't think you did, who remind you of yourself or someone else- the girl you sit next to in Spanish class, the guy your sister is dating, the enigmatic friend- to get to see through their eyes and hear through their voices for a bit.The Realm of Possibility by David Levithan is humorous, dark, lovable and deeply true, with characters as real as they are different.
I would tell them to listen to the sex, to the awkwardness that comes with being a young adult, but also to the profound love and grief and pain that these characters feel.
They do not acknowledge the fact that what they had in the beginning wasn't love at all.So for all of the characters in this book to be in loving relationships and not care about sex, I just don't buy it.
I know that every problem in society wasn't going to be mentioned in a 200 page book, especially with a lot of pages being really tiny poems, but given the fact that sometimes Levithan writes about future Americas in which things are drastically different, I am a bit unsure about this whole situation.Levithan did a good job of connecting the twenty characters through poems written about each other.
As hard as it is for us to see sometimes, we all exist within the realm of possibility.
captures 20 different personalities with their own stories to tell.
What I loved about the book was how some chapters are just composed of broken sentences and simple words but the message of the person speaking still gets through.
What I also loved about the book was how it was really filled with different types of personalities.
Haha, okay sort of hard to explain, but hopefully when you do get to read the book you'll eventually get what I'm saying.
The Realm of Possibility is the story of twenty diverse teenagers all attending the same high school. Their stories are sad, meaningful, and touching - they weave within one another and connect in the places the reader would least expect.The unorthodox writing style confused me at first, but once I got into the characters the book took off. I did not absolutely love or hate any of the poems, but enjoyed some more than others.Overall, a good book, recommended for people who are looking for unique stories told in verse.
3/5 stars. I've read a few of David Levithan's books and I've liked them. And I liked this one. This is a book of poetry, it's written beautifully and so simply as well. Many peoples stories are told in this short book and their lives all connect with each other's somehow. This book was a great voice for all those angry teenage emotions, a voice for people who may not realise what others are going through. A lovely short book with diverse characters and powerful messages.
This was just not my thing at all.
