https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11831.Dicey_s_Song
"I have the feeling that I know who I am, only I'm not anymore." 3.5 ⭐This was a wonderful second installment to the Tillerman Cycle.When we last left Dicey, James, Maybeth and Sammy - they were beginning new lives, living on their grandmothers farm.This novel has more focus on the characters themselves, rather than much plot. Which was quite a change from the adventure driven storyline in book 1. It was nonetheless enjoyable, and I loved following the kids as they learned to adjust to life wit
"I have the feeling that I know who I am, only I'm not anymore." 3.5 ⭐️This was a wonderful second installment to the Tillerman Cycle.When we last left Dicey, James, Maybeth and Sammy - they were beginning new lives, living on their grandmothers farm.This novel has more focus on the characters themselves, rather than much plot.
" Dicey finds it the most difficult out of the family.
As her siblings discover who they are and who they want to be, Dicey finds herself lost.
If her siblings don't need her like they used to, who is she if she isn't the responsible rock that she has always been for her family?Lovely book 2 and I am looking forward to continuing the rest of this series.
I began to scratch the back of my head wondering "Do I really want to read this again and run the risk of ruining my image of the book?
This book  ALWAYS  makes my heart go all fuzzy.Dicey's song is the sequel to Homecoming (another great read), but I had read this one first and I had no trouble following it.
I'm convinced that the Tillerman family is real.
When I read this moving story the first time I wanted to be Dicey.
She cares little about what other people think and strives to do right by her family and herself.
Being twelve years old in the book, this is no small feat.
My friend assures me that Dicey's Song was on several school suggested reading lists and that she read it in ninth grade.
It's that good.This is old-school Newbery.
There's this moment, when Dicey's paper is being read aloud and she slowly realizes where that's going, that is one of those perfect reading moments where you're both entirely in the book and fully cognizant of how lucky you are that this exists, that it's been written.What a cast of characters.
WHAT A BOOK THIS IS.
How on EARTH did I miss reading it in high school?
Though I eventually devoured every book in this series, this was the first one I read.
I loved these books as a kid - I loved that they didn't feel like books for kids at all.
They seemed like "real" books - as opposed to, say, Baby Sitters Club.
I love what an odd, believable character Dicey is, that she's a tomboy with a mothering instinct who wants to build boats.
These books broke my heart again and again (and I did re-read them all several times.) I love the way the entire series is written, with occasional spotlights thrown on supporting characters.
I read it first as a kid, and didn't realize quite how much I idolized the title character, Dicey.
Reading the book as an adult, I realize that Dicey was the character I most had wanted to be like as a kid.
Also cool--other books in the Tillerman Cycle, namely Come a Stranger and A Solitary Blue, tell the story from the points of view of two of Dicey's friends.
There are a couple of scenes from Dicey's song that are told from Mina's eyes or Jeff's eyes, which make them interesting reading (and great for a lesson on PoV, if you happen to teach language arts in middle school, like I used to).
3.5 stars I'm getting a strong opinion that I couldn't just hand over a newer/modern Newberry Medal winner book to my kids at their age without prereading it. This could have been a good read, if not for the mention of sex, French kiss, bossom, which I thought were better left out.
guess you have to change the old adage, tho, to "out of the mouth FOR babes", since the book was originally intended for teens.
BUT ...like the first one, from this book ANYONE can learn something valuable.
as, since most of us are/were "dysfunctional", it's nice to know that we aren't/weren't alone.
it was a GOOD and VERY cleansing cry, and i learned some valuable lessons, that HOPEFULLY, i can put into play.ok, i'm off to steal the 3rd book in the series from that bratty daughter of mine that got me hooked on this blasted thing!
A good book that, I suspect, will be a considered slow moving by at least some of its intended audience. Really, it's a book that adults (re: parents) want their children to like as opposed ton e they actually will like. Some will get it. Hopefully, others will come back and recognize that the pace is intentional, the plot only suffers from comparison to the (sadly more common) hyperunrealistic stories for teenagers in books and on TV, and that being big and loud aren't always prerequisites--or even desirable elements--for emotional power. A quiet book, for better or worse.
At the end of the book, the kids are getting ready to try their first pizza.
I was something like 7 years old the first time my parents got us a pizza.
The first book was apparently about their journey to their grandmother's house after their mom abandoned them.
The teacher makes a point that everyone should learn home ec and she laments that more boys don't take the class because it's information that everyone needs.
A lot of award winning children's books are more fun for adults to read, but, I feel like Dicey's Song would be appealing to children who like an emotional adventure.
This second book in the series was easier for me to get involved in more quickly, and the shorter page-length benefited the story. I really enjoyed seeing the Tillerman’s getting acquainted with their new home and seeing how Dicey adjusted to her changing role. They are a fun family to read about.
Absolutely as lovely as everyone says.
In  Dicey's Song, the Tillerman children are learning to call Chrisfield home.
I just love the feel of  Cynthia Voigt's  Tillerman Cycle.
Cynthia Voigt is so good at mixing sweetness and sorrow.
I finished the book feeling all melancholy.
I really love all the characters in this book.
Gram continues to be a favorite, but I really enjoyed the new characters that were introduced in this novel too.
The characters' voices are so strong.
They feel so very authentic.
I like feeling like I have a personal connection to the series.
I would also give this a solid 4.5 stars. I wished it was longer. I loved following Dicey, getting to know Gram better and seeing more of the other siblings too. This book had less action than "Homecoming", but still was just as gripping. I can't wait to read the rest!Addition:After finishing the rest of the series, I was disappointed nothing happened with Dicey searching for her Uncle John. I wish this would've happened! They might have cousins they've never met. It would be good for Gram to have closure on this!
Great book, maybe a little too long. The story could have been really pathetic and sorry-for-itself, but it wasn't like that at all. I do want to read the others in the series now--I didn't realize there were so many; I'd only heard of the first three. But WHAT a dreadful cover--looks like it belongs to exactly the kind of book this isn't (the pathetic-and-sorry one).
I really tried to like this book. I forced myself to trudge through each banal page. I cut and ran after 50 of them. I know this book won a Newberry, but I guess it was the 80s and there wasn't a whole lot of quality children's literature to nominate.
The story is quiet and timeless, and I love to read stories about kids dealing with real hardship, rather than the watered-down "problems" you so often see.
This book's greatest strength is character development.
We're dealing with a rather large cast of protagonists here--all four Tillerman children and their grandmother--as well as several significant supporting characters, and they are all beautifully fleshed out.
Voigt does an incredible job of capturing the ambivalence of sibling relationships and the difficulty of getting to know oneself again after a time of transition.
3 3/4 stars
Great sequel, even better than the first book.
Forced to grow up too soon, Dicey discovers that you can learn some things too fast.
I loved this book and wonder why it isn't in my library.
This was beautiful, real, and sweet. I haven't cried this much reading a book, ever.
Caruso absolutely nails Gram's voice.You might not have to have read 'Homecoming' to appreciate 'Dicey's Song' but it certainly would help.
As Gram says, 'holding on.' Besides getting to know Dicey, James, Maybeth, Sammy and Gram better, we are introduced to grocer Millie Tydings and piano teacher Isaac Lingerle, adults who surprise the reader with their depth of empathy and understanding, as well as Dicey's musical admirer, Jeff Greene, and her emerging friend, the vibrant Wilhelmina Smiths, who fairly leaps off the pages to grab your attention--and Dicey's.Especially relevant in this new chapter of the Tillerman children's lives for me, because I help kids in exactly this area, were Maybeth's difficulties with learning how to read.
An easier read than the first one, in that I wasn't in constant terror of the kids dying or being put into foster care.
I didn't for a moment think that Gram would dump them somewhere, which seemed to be Dicey's main concern.
No, I was concerned that Dicey would screw up in every other aspect of her life, making this a pretty uncomfortable read.
But it wasn't even relinquishing control to Gram that was getting to her.
She wanted to tell them how to be friends, and what to do in school, and what to do after school .
I cared about Dicey and Gram and Sammy and James and Maybeth.
I loved this book for its characters and its life lessons.Thirteen-year-old Dicey Tillerman, her younger brothers James and Sammy, and their younger sister Maybeth have begun to live with Gram after their mother deserted them.
In Dicey’s Song, the Tillermans become a family.
Dicey, now beginning high school, must share her siblings for whom she had been so competently responsible for many years, even before their mother had deserted them.
Dicey had formed a protective shell around all of them, especially herself, but now they need to let others into their lives to become truly well and happy.
She was facing many problems in her life.Dicey had motherly like instincts, taking care of her siblings, her grandmother, financial problems, and still manages to try her best and keep up her grades in school.
In addition, the is a novel that most people can relate to because they don't have their close relatives with them and went through hard times.It teaches readers about responsibility and what you can do to keep your family together and what you should do in a situation like that.
Hopefully people will realize that they shouldn't take things for granted because one day they will be gone, like job opportunities, working hard in school, and having a good future.
(Perhaps reading the two back to back helped that feeling.) Dicey is a great character, and there are still so many unanswered questions and avenues yet to be explored in her life.
Usually, I want my highest rated books to be ones that have sticking power with me.
With these books, I often second guess my first reactions and rate them lower than I initially feel.
With that in mind, I'll just say that this feels like a five-star book to me now, and perhaps the initial reaction should be the best one from which to judge.
I would like to know that story and how the children walked all the way to Maryland.
I discovered that this is actually book 2 in the Tillerman series of 7 books, so maybe book 1, Homecoming tells that story.
Read Alikes: If you liked this, I would recommend you read A Year Down Yonder by Richard Peck because it tells a similar story of children being raised by grandparents when the parent is unable.
Walk Two Moons by Sharon Creech and Missing May are others that deal with the death of a parent.
I would recommend NOT reading these books as a series but as a the same setting from different perspectives.Again, I connected with the grandmother most, though I enjoyed the overall idea of children being capable and competent.
It was the keeping doors open aspect that caught me in this book, as in Homecoming.
The last contact with her daughter was to hold her hand as she died in a state mental institution.
But the going and holding her child's hand was important and held the door open even though no one would walk through.
A thirteen-year-old Dicey Tillerman and her three siblings learn how to adjust to a new life on their grandmother's old farm in Maryland.
Dicey took on a huge responsibility by acting as a parent for her younger siblings.
Dicey and her siblings find a new beginning with their grandmother, new friends, and new experiences of love,and develop trust.
Dicey has to deal with a difficult situation at the end of the book.1.
The students could keep a diary of how Dicey is feeling throughout the book.2.
Students could fill out reader's response at the end of each chapter.
I avoided this book for a long time because I had heard it was too upsetting for children.
Yes, it is a sad book.
But there are lots and lots of children who would like to hear this story.Dicey and her three siblings have come to live with their grandmother.
Their mother is in a mental hospital; their father skipped out before Dicey’s youngest brother, Sammy, was born.There are lots of problems to overcome.
Dicey’s sister, Maybeth, isn’t learning like she should in school.
People talk about and tease the children about Gram.
Dicey, like Gram, has learned to feign indifference.
This is the second volume in the remarkable story of the Tillermans, one of my favorite fictional families.
The four children have moved past the improbable circumstances of their mid-Atlantic journey, and are now settled at their Grandma’s Chesapeake Bay home.
This secure foundation invites some strong character development.
Gram is a traditional cranky old woman, set in her ways, with a heart of gold underneath all that sandpaper.
She’s the rightful center of attention – a 13-year-old who has grown up too fast, and must help the entire family come to terms with their mother’s continued absence.
