https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/141805.Cities_in_Flight
This is a review of the first two books of the quartet.
The first is in a style I have come to expect from Blish; a rather high brow and deep philosophical discussion masquerading as an eventful piece of pulp.
Dubious science fiction is carried off by a presentation indebted to a knowledge and understanding of real science, unlike many modern approaches where any attempt to explain the nature of advanced technology is not forthcoming.
The book does take oblique looks at two common Blish themes: religion and the search for knowledge, which are closely interwoven in Black Easter, A Case of Conscience and Doctor Mirabilis.
It isn't a text book and the oft mentioned Blackett-Dirac equation that describes how the 'spindizzy' space drive works is simply wrong.
But this is also the first (only?) SF book I ever read that considers economics as well as science.
He misses a lot of stuff, but remember he was writing for a magazine.
I still quote stuff from the last book in the series (not that anyone listens).And finally there's the timeline.
It starts in the not too distant future and assumes the cold war situation in the 60s doesn't improve.I can't resist mentioning the 'bridge' on Jupiter.

The collection starts with They Shall Have Stars.
A Life for the Stars is the second tale in the collection, set centuries after the first.
Humanity has discovered the gravitronpolarity generator, or "spindizzy" and over the years, first factories, then entire cities have used this gravity cancelling device to leave Earth and propel themselves through interstellar space.
Chris deFord gets press ganged onto the departing city of Scranton and begins a new life among the stars.
Story #3, Earthman Come Home, is the first (and best) of the tales to have been written.
What these novels lack in character they make up for in grandiosity, imagination and occasional goofiness -- as well as the odd (and I do mean odd) moral dilemma of a kind that could only occur when big industrial cities are out in the universe doing odd jobs, planet by planet, solar system by solar system.And hey, if you're going to do science fiction, might as well really freaking do science fiction, right?*I have mostly known Mr. Blish as the constructor of novelizations of episodes of Star Trek (original series).
Mr. Blish chose cities as his medium of exploring space but totally neglected to incorporate city information or life into his stories.
Otherwise there were only a couple of cops and that about represented the whole of Manhattan.
I mean, if you want to stage a vast city as your base at least have a cast of one hundred drawn from various areas of Manhattan.
For such a famous place that was no information about any of it.
It may as well have been a story about a small spaceship with a crew of 8 and a computer.
I read this back when it was first published, and I can still remember the excitement and wonder I felt when I first encountered these startling ideas. This is one of the original ground breaking novels, from the truly Golden Age of SciFi
The first, They Shall Have Stars explains the dual development, scientifically and politically, of the Dillon-Waggoner Gravatron polarity generator, or Spindizzy, and the anti-agathic drugs that made space flight possible.
The drugs and the Spindizzies combine in the stories to make space travel possible.The sad aspects of the story involve the realization of how little progress has been made.
As space, through the Spindizzies, and time, through the anti-agathics are conquered, the spacemen eventually come to feel like they are gods.
When the planet He, moving though space discovers the end of time, they position themselves to create their own worlds.
After all this time, I have finally read it.I was expecting great things from a book in the renowned SF Masterworks series.
Instead of using the usual method of building space craft, mankind has chosen the far simpler method of floating all the great cities of the world into space using anti gravity engines.
Instead of developing faster than light travel to shorten the vast interstellar distances, he will develop life extending drugs, so that the he can survive the hundreds of years of flight.These are the two scientific ideas which form the spine of the science behind the plot.
During the vast bulk of the book, we follow the city of New York, as it travels from one adventure to the next.
The description for this omnibus states "For readers of a certain age, this was probably the 1st SF they encountered written from a mature standpoint & adult sensibility."This was certainly true for me.
For the longest time this was my favorite book, ever, but, as time as gone by, the latest re-read reveals this book is aging and is less sophisticated than I remember.What still holds up is the characterization and the way the series ends.
This is one of the benchmark books in the world of "hard" science fiction and Blish did a superb job of creating one of the most unusual, but believable, cultures in the genre.
I've read this book 3 times and, if I live long enough, will probably do so again in a few years.I have one caveat, and it's something that many SF writers did in the early years.
Too much scientific 'baflegab".
And not simple baflegab, but stuff that would challenge the attention span of an advanced nuclear scientist.
Fortunately, a lazy reader, like me, can skip over those bits without losing the thrust of the story line.

This is actually 4 complete novels. Fairly short ones. And I originally read a couple of them unders separate covers. A collossal achievement really. In the future whole cities take flight through the galaxy and its very interesting to see Blish expand on this concept. Good works. Perhaps Blish's best.
There are four books, but they are related, even if the story time-line is spread over several thousands of years (from the Cold War, or 20th century, to somewhere in 4100).Blish's writing style also doesn't allow to fly through the book(s), let alone the rather flat characters.
Or, added value that is always good to have with such books.In short: I can see why it has been republished, why it's considered a "classic", as it deals with some interesting and "new" themes (at least at the time of writing), but I found it relatively hard to get through.
Blish does get some future predictions wrong (again, written before Sputnik) about how the Soviet Union was against space flight as then the unhappy people would leave.Overall the third story was the weakest.
For instance, now we're used to all large air craft having identifying signals, but in this space craft as large as New York City have nothing like it.For now it was all too much and I didn't enjoy the 3rd story, so I'll skip the 4th and come back to it in a few months.
The assumption that the main character has contrived events from beginning to end becomes sort of a psychological "deus ex machina" that is embedded in the story all along, but which is hidden from the reader.
While Blish claims in the end notes to have cleaned up some of the inconsistencies, even a fairly casual reading reveals inconsistencies, particularly in time frames, that make the story more difficult to grasp.
And while not always immediately apparent upon publication, it can become more noticeable over time, as seen in a lot of sci-fi from the mid-twentieth century that features characters supposedly in the far future, but with now-unpalatable attitudes about treatment of all things Other that is straight out of 1950.Blish attempted to portray what the Future would look like, but all of his characters are clearly highly influenced by his own experiences in the early and mid-twentieth century, which today pulls the reader out of the story.
Like many people, I first read this collection of four novels when I was in High School.
This is high-quality science fiction from the golden age.
I was suprised that so little of the technology is out-of-date (vacuum tubes excepted) that it reads as fresh now as it did before.But this is more than just the superficial sci-fi that we sometimes hear about.
It is a story of the human condition, as told by one of the grand masters of science fiction.
If you aren't into sci-fi, I think you will still find a lot to like about Cities in Flight.
This was published in the SF Masterworks series and is apparently a "classic" of science-fiction but I wasn't that impressed and gave up reading after about 300 or so pages (and it is very rare that I give up on a book).
The science was interesting and some of his ideas were quite visionary considering when this was written, but as a story it was very poorly told.
It's a pity as he had some nice ideas and seemed to have some writing talent, but is unable to combine those things with interesting storytelling.
All the books are now in a single collected volume which has the advantage of reading them in order as apposed to when they become available in the library.
The great manufacturing cities equip them selves with combined anti-gravity and shield generators called Spin-dizzies and leave the doomed planet to find materials and business like high tech roaming tinkers.
Follow the main character as he first stows away on the city of Scranton as it leaves and his life and progress between the stars.Se how he copes with hunger, crushing drudgery, piracy and all the horrors which desperate humanity can invent.
Blish's Cities in Flight tetrology seemed to be quite a read at the time, its hundreds of pages characterizing the space-faring cities in general and New York and its mayor in particular leading to a substantial emotional impact as all prepare for the end of the universe.Blish calls the space travellers "Okies", an allusion to the thirties in the United States and to Steinbeck's famous novel, The Grapes of Wrath. Read Steinbeck first, then see how good a job you think Blish does. I didn't and probably missed a lot as a result.
CITIES IN FLIGHT aka The Okies series is pure classic SF. While many of the concepts are dated, the stories have never lost their joy as an source of entertainment.  The tales primarily concern the space going city of New York. Many of Earth cities have literally left the planet, carried aloft by anti-gravity engines called "Spindizzies." The Cities become a force of migrant labor, selling their services where ever they can.  It is such a fanciful idea, and even now one that really sparks something inside me.
I took the advice of Adam Roberts in his introduction to this compendium and read the four stories in the order they were written, rather than in the chronological narrative order in which they are presented in the omnibus. This was good advice. "Earthman, Come Home" is the best of the four, full of spare narrative and boldly drawn characters reminiscent of a Saturday morning serial adventure or a B grade 50s sci-fi movie. The other books, while having their own points of interest, feel like afterthoughts in comparison.
I read this book as at about sixteen and it totally inspired me. I re-read it ever year or so for a while until I no longer owned the book. About a week ago I found it in Pulp Fiction book shop in Brisbane, it had been re-printed in the “Masterworks of Sci-fi” series. It is still as inspiring as it ever was thirty odd years ago, a good strong series of science fiction of the old genera in that they have a lot of science in them.
I have to say I first read these books back in the 70s, and when I came across them again I looked forward to re-reading them. I wasn't disappointed, the characters are excellent and you really do get involved with them, the scope of the books are immense and have re-ignited my passion for space opera.
Why did I just read a 600 page Spenglerian sci-fi tetralogy? Because it was there, I guess. The promise of Lotus Sutra scale cosmic urbanism intrigued me; of a rust belt Midwestern town "going into space, to become a migrant worker among the stars." The books themselves, alas, I found too conventional in racial, gender, and plot conventions.
Good ol' boy sci-fi, where the rich vastness of the universe is nonetheless incapable of dislodging the narrative from narrow-minded white American male-ness. In this, Protagonist is a stowaway on a massive (Miyazaki-esque) flying city contraption; almost a proto-steampunk visual. Too bad the city feels about as diverse as Pittsburgh. (I say this with much love and respect for Pittsburgh.)
I think I should've read these as separate books. For some reason I sort of lost the thread, and, though I got a lot of Heinleinism out of Blish's style of writing, wasn't overly impressed. I got the same sort of "I expected more" that I had when finishing Asimov's Foundation.
Wild!
But this criticism is secondary to the poetry, adventure, whimsy, and high concept which expressed through the ungainly vehicle of mediocre science fiction prose.Cities in Flight is whimsical and poetic in its imagery, adventurous and fun, and while the characters aren't so wonderfully rendered, they sympathetic and enjoyable.The characters in Cities in Flight are as good, for my purpose-an entertaining science fiction read-as those in, say, Corey's Expanse Series.
Like if Hamlet went on to Hamlet 2 and so forth of the "Prince of Denmark" series.For anyone who's maybe not read much science fiction written before the, oh early 1990's, you might do well to try some of the older works.
