https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/133765.Those_Left_Behind
The bridge between TV series and film! I bought this in its single comic book issues, but I've chosen this TPB edition to make a better overall review.This TPB edition collects "Serenity: Those Left Behind" #1-3.Creative Team:Writers: Joss Whedon & Brett MatthewsIllustrator: Will Conrad GONE TOO SOON  ...A ship would bring you work, a gun would help you keep it. A captain's goal was simple: find a crew, find a job, keep flying. Firefly is one of those TV jewels that they were gone too soon.
With just one season, it was unfair that the TV series didn't have a chance to fully stretch its legs......so when the eventual movie was out, the fans got thrilled......however some of the characters weren't where the fans remembered.This miniseries show you how and why, those characters came to be in the places that you found them in the movie......in the middle of a failed bank heist......and an old enemy looking for bloody revenge!!!You get the characters faithfully portraited, and definitely showing why Malcolm Reynolds is one of the most impressive sci-fi characters, since he's not a bad guy, BUT......a saint or a fool ain't he, neither.This is a fine Firefly tale, leading to the Serenity film, and while it has the limitations of having only three comic book issues to develop it, I think that it was quite adequate told to learn what you wanted to know about the changes met at the beginning of the closure movie.
Well, we all know what happened to Firefly.After  one season! Seriously? Thank god for small mercies.This arc bridges the gap between the TV Show and movie.The story answers questions such as what happened to "Two by two, hands of blue" guys (Which is kind of anti-climatic) and why Shepherd Books left the ship. The story also features last days of Inara on the ship and a villain from season one! The comic does a good enough job capturing the characters and their extraordinary chemistry, but the
Well, we all know what happened to Firefly.After 
  one season! Seriously?
Thank god for small mercies.This arc bridges the gap between the TV Show and movie.The story answers questions such as what happened to "Two by two, hands of blue" guys (Which is kind of anti-climatic) and why Shepherd Books left the ship. The story also features last days of Inara on the ship and a villain from season one! The comic does a good enough job capturing the characters and their extraordinary chemistry, but the very short length of the story dampens the end results a bit.
This is a companion comic book series to a tv-series, whose life span was too short.After this series was cut short, I wanted to cry.
This is one of the most beautiful and thought provoking series out there, but instead of getting more episodes, I got another season of repetitive Vampire Diaries and Sharknado, a declining Glee, some horrid copy of The Walking Dead, and the end of the good storyline for Once Upon a Time.
Please watch the show and then read these comics, I want other people to suffer with me, I do not wish to be alone with this.
LOVED. EVERY. PAGE.I doubt that I'll ever be able to pull of a critical review since I tend to get really emotional and extremely biased when it comes to  Firefly  so I will leave it to that. The Serenity is everything.
What makes this comic fly is that it feels as though it is a genuine episode bridging the gap between Firefly and Serenity.
It was probably precisely what it is, though, a prelude to the movie, wrapping up loose ends, surprising us with things almost forgotten, and prepping us for the coolness that was to come on the big screen.
Regardless, it is an excellent entry into the Firefly / Serenity canon for a full blown brownshirt, a newbie brownshirt or a brownshirt in the making.I'd sure like to see more ...
4.5 stars  Introduction:  Now, I will be honest here. Even though I have seen many of Joss Whedon’s works in the past, I did not know anything about the infamous cancelled TV series “Firefly” up until recently. What is even more surprising about this is that I had the movie “Serenity” for many years before I watched “Firefly” and I did not know that “Serenity” was a continuation of “Firefly” until I saw the movie again recently and realized that these were the same characters that I saw in “Fir
I loved the fact that Joss Whedon and Brett Matthews were able to tell a prequel story for “Serenity” in order to bridge the gap between “Firefly” and “Serenity” for anyone who was wondering what events had taken place after the “Firefly” TV series got cancelled.
I was in there hoping to pick up The Cloud Searchers, but Mal and Book et al looked down at me from the shelf, so despite past disappointment with some of the Buffy comics, I picked some up.
I DO care that he can't express her exasperation with Mal, her affection for the ship, or really much of anything beyond stock expressions.Anyway.
Browncoats out there have probably already read this tiny little volume, or will be unable to stop from buying it if they see it on the shelves, so you know, get it out of your system.
Another of my fangirl favorites. I LOVED Firefly and the movie that went with it, Serenity. So, of course I’m predisposed to love these graphic novels, but unless you know the background story from the tv series and movie, you might have trouble following this story.
Whilst it felt good to have some way of revisiting the world of Firefly this was mostly let down by the fact that it can't ever BE the tv show. The storyline felt right but the artwork was constantly just a bit wrong because I know what the characters look like and, unfortunately, it's not this. If you can get past that then this is a nice, very quick, visit back to a wonderful world.
Bridging the gap between the end of the TV series and the beginning of the movie, Those Left Behind is really very much like reading an episode of the show in comic book format.
The art is pretty accurate as far as portraying the characters (one of my biggest pet peeves about tie in comics is when the characters on the page look nothing like the characters on the screen) and is overall nice to look at.
My one complaint is that the ending was a bit too abrupt and not very satisfying.
But Firefly fans will at least want to give it a read.
And after marathoning Firefly and Serenity like there was no tomorrow I was thrilled to find while shelving that my library owned both Serenity: Those Left Behind and Serenity: Better Days, both of which I eagerly checked out.
The dialogue between characters reads like a true Firefly episode and it is impossible not to hear the actor's voices in your head as you read.
So if you love Firefly with a passion you may want to read this story, but as a bridge between the series and the movie it is unnecessary.
The Good: Those Left Behind is pretty much an episode of Firefly, just in graphic novel form.
It doesn't do much to move from A to B, especially in regard to where we find some of the characters once the movie begins, but it is a start in the right direction.
The characters are immediately recognizable.
Overall, it's a wonderful return to a world we love.The Bad: This graphic novel was a bit short, story-wise.
It was physically short as well.
It's weirdly less tall than any other graphic novel I've read, making the pages hold less content than usual.
...There's no place I can be Since I've found Serenity But you can't take the sky from me....Ahhhhhh Firefly how I miss thee (dang Fox!)! Thank God for Serenity the movie and for this graphic novel! Really there's not much to say, if you loved Firefly then you will love this graphic novel!If you took away all the words to this book you would most assuredly know which of the characters each of the drawings depicted. I was pleasantly surprised.Five Shiny Stars!
I love you Mal. More than a friend.
I miss the TV show Firefly so so much. It was one of my favorites.
I love Serenity.
I did not love Serenity: Those Left Behind.
It was a pale imitation of the canon's greatness.What I didn't like: The back of the comic said this bridged the gap between the show and the movie, but it didn't.
Apparently it is the first in a series that eventually bridges the gap.
Basically everything other than Lawrence Dobson getting killed (hide spoiler)]What I did like:The Nathan Fillion introduction was great.The dialogue was spot on, which shouldn't be surprising, considering Joss Whedon wrote it.Getting to spend time with the crew again, even in this format, was still a worthwhile hour's diversion.
I ended up reading these out of order because I've borrowed them from a friend who is in turn borrowing them from the library.I think I enjoyed this one more than The Shepherd's Tale.
The art was better, and there was no jumping around (The jumping around wouldn't have been so bad in a longer story though).This story also felt too short.
And it seems like it left off on a cliffhanger.
It's worth reading at least once if you like the show and you can get it cheap/borrow it from the library.
I hate sunny Sundays even more.But you know what makes them almost bearable?Firefly!This covers some of the gap between the ending of Firefly and the movie Serenity, and it does an excellent job of it.
It captures the wonderful sci-fi-western atmosphere of the series, and gives the characters their very own distinguishable features, while still making them look like their actor-counterparts.
It is reference material for when you become a superhero."Recently I've found a love for The Avengers, but before that, long before that, long before I even started reading comics or watching superhero movies, I had the crew of the Serenity.
After a long time of wanting them I finally got my hands on the Firefly graphic novels. The first is set sometime just after the series finished and is a short but fun adventure that slightly foreshadows the movie.A great addition was the section at the back where Joss Whedon told the story of the Firefly universe including how the Browncoats started and how Mal, Zoe and Wash got together.The artwork was great and really brought me back into a universe that I haven't visited in far too long. For those who love Firefly they must read this.
Tolle Zeichnungen (vor allem die Charakterzeichnungen zwischendurch) und interessante Geschichten in Firefly-Manier. Macht Lust, die Serie noch einmal zu sehen!
It's an interstitial between the abrupt ending of Firefly and the Serenity movie, covering some of the difficulty the crew has getting work, as well as Shepherd Book and Inara's departures.
The men in blue gloves are a convenient opportunity and nothing more.Yeah, this story is a little all over the place.Unfortunately, Serenity: Those Left Behind just tries to do too much.
It invokes several guest characters from the book: Dobson, the hands of blue, and even Badger.
I guess Dobson, obsessed as he is with revenge instead of just eliminating Mal safely and efficiently, is not thinking too clearly.

Of course I enjoyed this, as a Firefly fan, but, as a standalone for the uninitiated it would probably just seem okay. The art was a also a little funky at times (thought some of this is probably just that it's always a little weird to see real-life humans drawn as comic characters), although I liked the space scenes.
This may only be a short adventure, but it's nice to have another firefly fix. I miss the show and I think its about time I rewatch the series. The artwork and writing all fit perfectly with my memories of this great series. I'm looking forward to more adventures.
The plot of this issue is placed between the final episode of the series and the movie.(At this point, this reviewer is quite sure that if the limits of love are legally expanded even more in the future and marriage of people and material objects becomes possible, Whedon will be among the first in the line of those taking the advantage of it and marrying a model of Serenity the spaceship.)Now, as far as the comic-reading goes, while I have read a lot of them I'm not a fan to the point I know all the terminology so please bear with my descriptive explanations.
I am such a fan of the series and the movie, which meant a mix of excitement and worry when I picked this up. Both were somewhat founded though the excitement definitely won :) The art is amazing and spot on, the dialogue captures each character just about perfectly. The story line seemed a bit bumpy but was true to Firefly. Overall I enjoyed it, though I wish it were longer. Looking forward to the next one!
I think science fiction just isn’t really for me. Regardless, I found this story a bit difficult to follow with multiple characters.
This is set after the Firefly series ends but before the movie Serenity. It feels like a mini segue episode in between the series and film; with direct and interesting links to both.
Having witty characters who interact well together does not make a story.
And it LITERALLY pains me to say this because how many times have I professed undying love for Joss Whedon to the point where I would be his fucking slave?
There were a few characters that I didn't feel like transferred from screen to page very well (Simon, mainly) but jesus christ!
WE ARE ALL IN FUCKING AWE OF JOSS.
We probably all want to fuck Joss too, even if he is a nerd super star.
The point is, I think I loved the introduction more than the actual comic story.
I will admit now that I was a latecomer to the Firefly fanbase as I only fell in love after having seen the movie Serenity.
Since then it's been one of the best shows I've ever watched and features some of my favorite fictional characters ever.
And on a only slightly related note, if you are a Firefly fan and also like board games, I cannot recommend Gale Force Nine's Firefly game highly enough.
