https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3227063-the-way-of-shadows
I could perhaps have stood fewer discussions on the city's varied architecture but that's the very minor niggle on the back of a great deal of enjoyment.And that friend of mine who wasn't a fan - she wasn't a fan of The Warded Man either, which I loved, and I have to say that this is probably the most enjoyable read I've had since devouring Brett's The Warded Man several years ago.
Definitely recommended.Perhaps the book benefited from me having a rare day to myself and reading most of it in one go.
A plucky street urchin Azoth wants to be a wetboy (*). Which is basically an  assassin on steroids . Minus the unfortunate side effects of acne, neck hump, obesity, testicular atrophy, and man-boobs.[image redacted]* (These are just some of the images that come up in the internet search for "wetboy".) Also, call me immature, but when you call your magical artifact ka'kari, despite the mandatory fantasy apostrophe, the "kaka" part inevitably elicits immature giggles from me. Dear writers, please
Anyway, as I said above, our plucky street urchin (hello, fantasy trope!) Azoth strives to become a super-assassin under the tutelage of Durzo Blint, a cruel badass wetboy (
As for Azoth/Kylar himself, he is a decent action hero, but I could not care less for him as a person; he just lacks depth.Nevertheless, despite characterization being his weak point, Weeks is a good storyteller.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------Overall, an average 3-star 2-star¹ story with forgettable characters, overreliance on fantasy cliches, and the feel of a videogame put to page, but rather fun and with nice action scenes.
So, near the end of the book, the protagonist is about to express his love to this girl after like 20 years of lusting, and at this point in the story, there's been a little cursing, the violence is PG-13 and badly written, all very YA.
I'm not asking you to fuck.
But maybe some day I'll earn the right to ask you for something more permanent." He turned and facing her was harder than facing thirty Highlanders.Ahh, Brent Weeks.
I think he has a little Vogon in him.
1.5/5 “Do you know what punishments I've endured for my crimes, my sins?"   <- I read The Way of Shadows by Brent Weeks, I think that's punishment enough for my sins.This novel had a promising start, I really enjoyed the start and was excited to fangirl over this novel for eternity, as everyone already knows I am Brent Weeks trash & I'm not ashamed to admit it. So I expected to absolutely adore this book, to be submerged in feels and just want to cuddle it for long hours and cry tears of
Extremely grim and totally had my full attention, however it quickly went sour from there and I lost interest very fast and after a while I realised I hadn't hit the lottery at all and what I instead had was a cliche novel full of tropes, sucky names and forced badassery.
Kylar (Azroth) is a twin of Kip (lightbringer series) except it's not "I'm so fat" instead it is "I can't protect those I love..
However, this is actually positive for the book, as it takes away the attention from him, and sets the focus on the book’s absodamnlutely fabulous secondary characters.Just like in many other books, movies and games, The Way of Shadows is about a mentor-protegé relationship where the obvious star of the show is the mentor.
And while I was disappointed by the ending itself, I would say that the second half of the book as a whole was great.So as a whole, The Way of Shadows is not a disappointing book, but it’s not impressive either.
It begins as a personal story of a kid apprenticed to an Assassin, and ends as an EPIC fantasy story, including amazing magic, mystical artifacts, Immortals, Godkings, and of course politics.
Even winning means nothing.
The means don't justify the ends.
The means don't justify the ends.
I totally recommend this book to every fantasy reader out there, and trust me, you will love it!*bad mofo: A person of such dangerous capability that it produces a natural coolness about them, which when those two qualities combine (coolness and danger) create a reputation that is renowned.
I liked this book, although it didn't tread the newest ground ever, the characters were interesting and the plot held my attention. I think the only thing lacking was the world building, it was confusing and I found it hard to really get a grasp on everything that was happening politically. BUT I recommend it highly, especially to people who like Robert Jordan, Joe Abercrombie, Stephen Erikson Robin Hobb or Terry Brooks. Very accessable, but with the new era "grit" we've come to know and love in fantasy :)
If Charles Dickens was born in 1977 and grew up playing Dungeons and Dragons and then World of Warcraft and reading sword and sorcery mags and playing online games and who liked wearing a cowled hoody all the time – he may have come up with a book much like Brent Weeks’ The Way of Shadows.This is a good book.
Actually, this is great in the same way that Bruce Lee’s Enter the Dragon is great.
A reader picking up Way of Shadows or a viewer selecting Enter the Dragon likely does not care why Heathcliff loves Cathy, or why The English Patient was a cinematic success.
Could be that while character building was excellent, the world outside the Warrens lacks details, even as we meet the characters living there.
The characters are interesting, and the narrative has returned to each enough times that I care at least a little bit about them, and if a few are rather one-dimensional (especially the love interest), overall they are done well.I do find that there seems to be awkward narrative jumps, where one moment we are going through a day per chapter, and then all of a sudden,  movie montage our character is sixteen, almost completely transformed from the awkward, unskilled youth into a fully competent assassin.
Surprised by (view spoiler)[ the fact that Kylar was allowed to read Eileen's letters, and didn't leave them hanging.
Like the cover blurb says, "The perfect killer has no friends - only targets."To accomplish this, Azoth is given a new identity and a new name, Kylar Stern, while he begins his training and attempts to unleash his "Talent", or his magical abilities that would extend his skills as a wetboy.The Way of Shadows is a fast-paced dynamite of a novel.
In a character/plot driven novel, The Way of Shadows doesn't get bogged down in description and it was much appreciated.Kylar, although desiring to be a killer, is easy to relate to and has his own qualms throughout the story of doing such work.
I found this series to have the kind of "well" written and "witty" dialogue that every 12 year old pervert will love, due to its "well" thought out and "intellectual" nature.
However, I beseech one to read this series as one will not be surprised in the least by the plot twists.
And lastly there were many similarities in this book to the first book of the Mistborn Series, only the Mistborn book was, way, way better.
Now given that this was the author's first book I will cut him some slack and say that the battle scenes were well done and the way magic was used was cool, if not fully explained with rules applied.
“Assassination is an art, milord. And I am the city's most accomplished artist.” ― Brent Weeks, The Way of Shadows3.5/5The story starts out with a bang, and the author has built just enough mystery around the main characters and their motives to keep me turning the pages. The book is busy, it's fast moving, but I found it sometimes to be more complex than it needs be. I just hope it gets better in the following books.
Since this book is full of tropes and stereotypes I'm going to do this review Disney style!Our main character Azoth is a street urchin.
From there the book follows a typical master-apprentice pattern.Including the required growing up montage à la Lion King.Azoth (now called Kylar) is a full assassin (I refuse to call him a wetboy) and the book has all the required fantasy characters, including the love interest and main reason I hated this book: Elene.
So I had to run to the bookstore to pick out another book to read.
The bookstore closed in five minuets and I quickly grabbed the book because of it's interesting looking cover.
I grabbed the book and thought what the heck, I'll give it a go.
Read the first part, it was pretty good but not amazing.
All of the sudden, out of nowhere, the book is insanely good and I am freaking out in the plane wanting to talk to someone about what's happening.
I highly recommend this book and am happy I have found a new addicting series.
Brent Weeks has done a great job of tying it all together. While Azoth is the main character, several other plot strands with different characters are introduced and expertly tied together further down the line.This was one of those books that once I started I couldn’t put down – well written and with a strong story to boot, I’m looking forward to checking out the rest of the trilogy.
4 stars
When I think of a good political fantasy that also has that court intrigue/conspiracy, I think of The Goblin Emperor.
(view spoiler)[ I know I am talking about Rat and Roth as if they are two different people here…I don’t want to give anything away, okay!
I was such a see-saw of emotions.I loved reading about the internal struggle that Kylar goes through as he transitions from Azoth to Kylar.
**I had this pretty little list all prepared of all the reasons why I enjoyed reading this book.
As you can tell from this review, the pretty little list went out the window.
It’s a gritty coming of age story that has a great cast of characters and an intricate plot.
The intricate plot is really great and very captivating with a few interesting twists that will keep you on the edge.
Having said that, I had some reservations regarding the way a few things were pulled-off, mainly for the way they were written, not the ideas themselves, but it’s forgivable considering it was Brent’s debut.
Even though I really liked the book I didn’t feel like “I must read more now”, but that's ok.
I mostly enjoyed Brent Weeks' Lightbringer series so I thought I would be on a winner with Night Angel.
I persevered through some 600 pages of this, the first book, but never actually became enthused about it.I should have enjoyed it and I can see from reviews that a lot of people did.
I struggled with the author's endless efforts to absolve his two main characters from the guilt of killing people.
Killing people can never be right so just accept it and let them be bad guys.
That really got me down!Sadly this is a series I will not be following up:(
Azoth/Kyler was a nothing, a low-life that was in a bad situation along with many other kids.
Kyler did the one thing Durzo told him never to do.
It turns out that Durzo happened to love after all, and most things he told Kyler always came to pass, if he told the truth that is.
Durzo Blint was more than his master; he was his father.Durzo and Momma K (who runs a brothel) took Kyler out of a bad situation and tried to teach him book learning and how to kill.
The book reads like a role-playing game with very maudlin moments thrown in to give it a depth which is beyond this author's reach.This is one of those books where everything falls into place nicely, the characters find out what they need to find out at exactly the precise time for the plot to progress, and every single character introduced ends up being central to the plot if not biologically related to the other characters.I will say there were a few wonderful scenes, especially in the first half, but Weeks needs to learn to linger, slow down, and build these scenes up for a greater payoff.
This book is really slow in the beginning until about 200 pages into the book. Then the speed of the book really picked up with full of action that included killing in painful ways. This book would do really well if it is made into a movie or especially if it is made into a video game. Overall, this is what an assassin should be.
GET OUTTA HERE BRENT WEEKS.
Let me tell you folks this is a winner.
AHH oh man.
There are so many twists and so many incredible intertwining plot lines.
I LOVED the character Azoth and his passion and unwavering ideals.
I was shaking reading this , especially the last 3/4.
I honestly cannot say enough about it.
Maybe it's because it's been awhile since I've read fantasy like this, maybe it's just because this book is unreal.
I had heard Weeks was good but get OUT man.
Wow. Well done.
Seriously if you like fantasy of any sort.
Check this one out.
4 Stars!!  “What happens when you strip away all the masks a man wears and you find not a face beneath them but nothing at all?”  Going to be honest and say I wasn't sure how much I would like this one- This is my first Weeks Novel. I did not read any reviews for it and went in blind. I'm so glad I did that! I was pleasantly surprised with the outcome. This first book of the series did not concentrate much on world building but more on character development, which usually would bother me.. but i
Going to be honest and say I wasn't sure how much I would like this one- This is my first Weeks Novel.
This first book of the series did not concentrate much on world building but more on character development, which usually would bother me..
but in this book it really worked.
With as little of the world building that we get, I was still able to see into this world that Weeks created.
I really enjoyed seeing each character grow over the course of the book.
I actually read this book long but never added it to my shelf or wrote a review, I'll have to rectify that in the near future.
The most feared of the Sa’kage assassins are the Wetboys.
He must wear all three faces of the Night Angel to be the perfect instrument of Retribution.****************************************************************I read Weeks Lightbringer series first and was very impressed by the well defined magic system and world building as well as the story telling in both those books.My Review The Black Prism http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...My review The Blinding Knife http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...Having now read his first book I can definitely say Weeks has added a lot of polish to his writing since.
The world building in this book is pretty much contained to the one city and the magic does not have much of a system.
Kylar, Durzo, Elene, Momma K, Uly, Count Drake, Logan, Solon, Dorian, Feir, and Jarl were a great cast of protagonists.
Durzo Blint was my favorite character.
I won't go into that too much as it could spoil; much of his character development is what I like about him.Kylar reminds me somewhat of Fitz, from Robin Hobb.
The trio of Solon, Feir, and Dorian remind me of a Steven Erikson sub-plot.
But what I see in Weeks is more than a sum of these parts; his story is definitely his own, with his own voice.
THIS WAS A GOOD TIME. I went into this expecting a fast-paced story about assassins and magic, and that's what I got! It was slightly different from what I had hoped, but that's for reasons that will be rectified in the sequels.I'd highly recommend this for fans of Brandon Sanderson's Mistborn!
There are various political plots going on involving this other race and people who are connected with them, and whilst I found that story to be intriguing, we see far less of that and it seems more to be a set up for more revelations following those characters in the next two books.Overall, in case you can't already tell, I really enjoyed this book, a lot more than I had initially anticipated, and I would 100% recommend it.
He becomes Kylar Stern the apprentice to Durzo Blint.The Way of Shadows is a complicated book.
The last quarter of the book was quite good in fact.The magic system was unlike anything I've ever previously encountered.
It was sophomoric at best and cringe worthy at it's worst.The Way of Shadows was quite the mixed bag indeed.My Original Review(view spoiler)[The Way of Shadows kept me engaged throughout even though early on there were some extremely random magic moments like fireballs I didn't know existed in the world and a view of Durzo Blint's abilities.
(hide spoiler)] I'd rate the second half of the book a 5.
