https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24726.Water_Music
I like the idea a lot: a fictionalised account of Mungo Park's travels to find the source of the Niger River, interspersed with the story of an invented London rogue called Ned Rise.
The problem is that by the time we go back to West Africa for the final section of the novel, it feels like going backwards: we've seen it all before.Most crucially, though, I have no idea what this book is actually about.
In this case I unfortunately felt a bit too much like Mungo Park myself – on an eventful journey, but without any clear idea of where I was going or why.
And as quiet as the surface of some uninhabitable and forbidden planet.”And there is nothing new under the sun except some new books…Water Music, named after Georg Friedrich Händel’s suite, written in the exotic language and boasting the exotic contents, is itself some sort of music – at the same time tragic and burlesque, the novel is a set of adventures and misadventures rolled into one thick volume of fortune.There is an antihero and antagonist: Ned Rise… T.C. Boyle has borrowed this character from John Masefield’s 
and turned him into a roguish misfit and unsinkable enthusiastic loser:“Experience has taught Ned Rise a good many things – nearly all of them unpleasant.
Am Anfang habe ich mich sehr über das Thema von Boyles Roman gefreut, denn Afrika kannte ich literarisch abgebildet so gut wie gar nicht außer Trojanov und Conrad, und die typische episch breite Fabulierkunst von T.C. Boyle war auf den ersten Seiten dieser Geschichte eher ein Vorteil als ein Manko: Man roch förmlich sowohl die afrikanische Wüste als auch das dreckstarrende, nach Fäkalien stinkende London.....und dann musste es der Autor dermaßen übertreiben - übrigens ein Paradefehler von T.C.
Indessen erweist sich der auf ganzer Linie in London wie auf dem Land gescheiterte Sträfling Ned im Dschungel als einziger Anpassungskünstler erweist, auch wenn die Perspektiven der Anpassung beim Kannibalenstamm nicht unbedingt optimistisch ausfallen müssen.Faszination des Scheiterns – zweite persönliche Befangenheitserklärung als Einleitung zur Hochjubelung des dritten TeilsDie ersten beiden Teile von Wassermusik sind auf den ersten Blick ein herrlich kindischer Karneval auf mein Lesepensum dieses Jahres, ob Karl Mays Kolportage, Roots, Nacht oder Parallelgeschichten (strukturell der absolute Gegensatz, aber auch hier gibt es Verbindungen, von denen nur der Leser etwas mitbekommt, ) dieser wild zusammen phantasierte Schmöker berührt so viele Themen und geht zugleich zurück an den Anfang meiner Leseleidenschaft.
A third of the way through.
I'm enjoying the read, but I'm still waiting for the "hilarious" part.
Finished at last!If the Washington Post book reviewer had actually read this book, which I seriously doubt, he would have written a completely different comment.
Rather than "hilarious", I would say Ned Rise's and Mungo Park's "adventures" crossing Africa were "disturbing".The plot is clever, the presentation spellbinding, the meaning, if any, obscure.
No one ends up a happy camper afer all that so-called hilarity.Bottom line: If I had only one book with me, and this was it, I would read it.
A literary but compelling book from T.C. Boyle.
I'm enjoying it a lot, but then again, Boyle is one of my favorites.
I've enjoyed his use of humor and historical settings in the past.
Now that I'm done with the book, I'd have to say that it was a tragic comedy.
It reminded me of Steinbeck in terms of the tragic nature of the characters and what happens to them.
It was a great book and I'd recommend it to anyone who enjoys literary books.
I had to have my dictionary handy though, so just know that it contains a lot of esoteric language.
This book should've been 200 pages shorter. Way too long and not engaging enough. The characters and story-lines are funny and Boyle is an excellent writer, but he wasn't able to keep the attention over such a long period w/ this theme.
During the first 3/4 of the novel, the story switches from Mungo's adventures to the story of Ned Rise a thief, scoundrel, and all-round con man in the filthy streets of late 18th century London.
Although I did really enjoy Mungo's adventures, Ned Rise has to be one of Boyle's most unforgettable characters.
Boyle's use of the English language is a marvel to behold.
His vocabulary is never ending and his descriptive narrative is marvelous.
--not only was the pedestrian up to his ankles in human waste, he also found himself dodging the airborne clods thrown up by the wheels of passing carriages." All in all, another highly entertaining story from Boyle.
This book was definitely entertaining during its first half. During the first Niger exploration, i found myself enthralled in the characters and whatever happened to them. However, the second trip to the Niger, i just couldn't care less. Although i have to give credit to TC Boyle for being an extremely talented writer with amazing details and humor (even if Water Music is the only book of his that i read), i found this story just too long for what it was worth in the end. I'm just glad it's over!
Another great book by Boyle. It reminded me of every book you ever read--seriously--it had an element of all. A little Dickens, Conrad, Twain; an Odyssey! Some Shakespeare. I am completely amazed at the talents of this guy. And this was his first book. Still can't believe his command of the language and syntax. Yikes!
I'm not sure if I loved or hated this book.Loved!:1) the exquisite wordplay2) the fun vocabulary3) some parts were hilariousHated!:1) the plot was meandering and not well crafted2) too ribald for my taste3) bad endingFun book club choice!
I read this ages ago: absolutely loved it, the picaresque humor appealed to me so much. TC Boyle is one of my favorite writers.
One of my favorite books of all time. I want to re-read it. Thrilling, adventurous, funny, sad, unusual, and beautifully told.
Boyle’s imagination is inexhaustible and the stories he weaves are finely and masterfully detailed and entertaining.
T.C. Boyle tells the story of Mungo Park, a Scottish doctor and explorer set to map the river Niger, suffering through numerous diseases and fending off constant attacks in Africa of the 1800s.
In parallel, we read the story of the fictional character Ned Rise – a con-man, fraud, and body snatcher, out of luck since forever.
It switches between stories and characters masterfully, juggling with events the way a prestidigitator would pull tricks at a traveling carnival.
I’ll be looking out for more Boyle for sure!
By the time this novel was released, T.
C. Boyle had already proven himself to be a master of the short story.
Obviously, his first novel was highly-anticipated, and if it had been a clunker, it might have destoryed an otherwise promising career.
Fortunately for him (and for anyone lucky enough to read this novel), Boyle hits a grand slam out of the park on his first step up to the plate.Boyle's first novel, set in the late eighteenth century, chronicles the partnership of British thief and whoremaster Ned Rise and Scottish explorer Mungo Park.
This hilarious and bawdy novel explains, for the first time, what happened.Boyle's best work is often quite playful with historical figures and this novel is no exception.
I'll get into more detail when if I can find a moment, but T.C. Boyle is my favorite author these days and this book, his first, is a sprawling epic that blends intense danger with hilarity! I know; that's impossible. Not in the hands of Boyle. If you think you'd enjoy the cultural quirkiness of Confederacy of Dunces in a smash up with the humidity and adventure of Michael Crichton's Congo, this book will make you very happy.
My husband forced me to read this book during our vacation. I just forgot to add it to my TBR. I have to create a single shelf for it, I think, because it is not what I normally read. But it is what my husband reads and likes. I liked it too.
After having read "The Women", "Water Music" is the second T.C. Boyle novel that I've tackled this past year, and while I absolutely love his writing style and whimsical use of language to describe and accentuate his story ("an out of sorts baboon", "even the sailors- the elder of whom once rode out a typhoon off the Marquesas- have to concede that this takes the cake", "inspired, the explorer attempts a sort of grand jeté, springing across the room like an antelope"), both novels seem to go from high comedy to high despair, and I always leave the book feeling slightly depressed.
Water Music is also reminiscent of Moll Flanders, though Defoe wrote many years before Boyle's novel is set.
(Mind you, Handel's Water Music was also the product of earlier decades of the eighteenth century.)In a note at the beginning of Water Music, Boyle warns the reader not to expect historical accuracy in the novel.
In the end, there is probably little less that is historically inaccurate about Water Music than there is about many novels in the genre, even if it is clear that the London that it portrays is based more on Hogarth's drawings than on more sober descriptions.
The first book I thought of when reading this was "Heart of Darkness" which, I believe, makes sense what with the exploration of the "dark continent" and the Congo.
It was hard for me to not laugh or exclaim out loud at times, but I had to since it was 3 in the morning.SPOILERS!Mungo Park comes out of Africa alive, lauded as a hero, and hoisted by London's upper crust which leads to his pain of writing a book, obsession with returning, and finally his doomed second excursion into Africa.
Through all her misery and anguish, after spending so much time fuming at Mungo for leaving, she loves him and waits for him.
Daneben sind Ned Rise, ein schlitzohriger Überlebenskünstler aus London, der immer wieder aufs Neue um seine Existenz kämpft und Ailie, die künftige Frau Mungo Parks, die beiden anderen Protagonisten in diesem Buch.
Erzählt werden immer wieder abwechselnd aller drei Leben, beginnend zum Zeitpunkt der ersten Afrikareise Parks.Boyle hält sich an das Grundgerüst der Informationen, die hauptsächlich durch Mungo Parks eigenes Buch 'Travels in the Interior of Africa' bekannt wurden.
Boyle übertreibt und dramatisiert, aber es passt zu dieser Zeit und diesen Geschehnissen, wo wohl vieles ins Extreme abglitt.Wer phantasievolle, ausufernde Literatur liebt, wird mit diesem Buch sicherlich viel Freude haben.
Et je dois avouer qu'il est des livres que j'ai traînés pendant des mois pour finir, à la quatrième tentative, par les adorer (trilogie new-yorkaise d'Auster par exemple).
Ici j'ai quand même persisté jusqu'aux environs de la page 200 mais après avoir lu quelques critiques sur goodreads indiquant que le meilleur du livre était le début, je l'ai refermé définitivement.
Je ne connaîtrai donc jamais l'épilogue (ni même le reste) de ce roman pétaradant, rabelaisien se faisant fort de nous décrire par le menu les vicissitudes de la vie dans les bas-fonds de Londres au XVIIIe et ce qu'était la réalité des expéditions africaines de l'époque, vues d'en-dessous.
Es scheint, dem Autor lag sehr daran, seine Leser unter keinen Umständen zu langweilen, und ich finde, es ist ihm gelungen: Nach einer halben Seite ist man im Geschehen drin, und danach geht es in flottem Tempo durch unzählige Abenteuer und oft überraschende Wendungen, dem einen durch die Wildnis Westafrikas und einem anderen durch den Unterwelt-Dschungel Londons.
Auch in diesem Roman ist einiges an Wissen eingeflochten, doch hier fühlte es sich nie nach Lehrbuch an wie sonst nicht selten in historischen Romanen; man weiss nie, was wahr und was erfunden ist, es war in diesen Teilen eher ein Kuriositäten-Kabinett.

Un muy buen libro, con referencias a muchos autores como Dickens o Twain o Conrad.
Funcionan muy bien las capítulos como historias propias independientes, pero entrelazadas entre sí.
En la parte negativa pondría algo que ya indiqué a media lectura.
El libro ciertamente pierde algo a partir del tercer viaje como si el autor ya no tubiera qué decir.
También pondría en la parte negativa como el personaje de Mungo es plano sin cambios tan necio al inicio como al final.
Pero ese también es su encanto.
Pero ya me gustaría que todas las operas primas fueran como esta.
My first TC Boyle novel - I occasionally still break out laughing about some of the scenes. I was taken back to it when several years ago I went to a display of the writings and maps of the famous African explorers presented at the Firestone Library at Princeton. Mungo Park's notes and maps were on display - the actual items, and I had to smile.
Sadly, I felt very indifferent about the hero Mungo, who I perceived to be very unsympathetic, more of an annoying anti-hero, than anything I would ever care to read about. The book surely had its entertaining episodes, but characters and story made me fall asleep more than once. I thought it a weak story from an otherwise brilliant author.
Sehr schön, die Mischung aus Humor und Drama, verpackt in ein spannendes und interessantes Abenteuer, teils mit hohem Ekelfaktor und auch ziemlicher Brutalität. Ein paar Längen hat es leider auch, aber die lassen sich leicht durchstehen.
Absolutely one of my most favourite books! The best story - connecting luck and bad luck, love and hate, friendship and treachery, civilisation and the human character to accept exclusively the familiar - I've read in ... my whole life, I guess.

