https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/770911.The_Sacred_Pipe
Really helped me understand the cultural differences that lead to the problems in the mid-1800s. This one is a keeper. I will read it again.
Not a favourite of mine even from an anthropological POV, a little dry of a read. Informative though.
I am surprised to find The Sacred Pipe still available. I hope the current version has a glossary that describes the basic elements, mythical figures, and rites of the Oglala Sioux. I am from the Great Plains, and I know who White Buffalo Calf Woman is, but other readers may not.
It is important that the Lakota were able to preserve detailed, lengthy descriptions of their rituals, as they were banned for generations.
I was touched by this closing paragraph in the description of "The Throwing of the Ball" ritual:At this sad time today among our people [the book was published in 1953] we are scrambling for the ball, and some are not even trying to catch it, which makes me cry when I think of it.
Fully aware of its sacred importance to the Lakota, I have difficulty understanding this ritual.
Valuable as a detailed exposition of the seven sacred rites of the Oglala Sioux by the last of the tribe's holy men, Black Elk, this book has significant ethnographical and historical interest - especially for its detailed descriptions of the Sun Dance Ceremony, of the Vision Quest, of the keeping and releasing of souls, etc.
These many omissions leave the reader feeling a deep desire for more information - for much more than that provided by this book if he is to assimilate Black Elk's words - if he is to get a true understanding of his spirituality.
It's more of a reference book than something you read once.
It's a book of theology and philosophy and filled with sacred knowledge.
It should be read with the understanding that this is a description of sacred ritual that takes place within the context of a specific period of time and within the cultural context of a group of people.
I highly recommend it for anyone who wants a deeper understanding of the sacred rituals associated with the pipe.
The book also gives a greater understanding of the La Kota people who are intrinsic to any knowledge of Native American culture and history.
Black Elk is an interesting man.
He was a Holy Man for the Sioux and then converted to Catholicism.
However, reading this book, I didn't feel that Black Elk was true to his conversion and may have done it as merely a matter of convenience.
Either way, it was fascinating to learn more about the sacred rituals of the Sioux.
Although it was an interesting read, it did, at times, get extremely tedious and repetitive.
The ending of the book is a bit poignant with Black Elk hoping that future generations don't forget the rituals.
Tapa Wanka Yap: The throwing of the ballQuotes:The first peace, which is the most important, is that which comes within the souls of men when they realize their relationship, their oneness, with the universe and all its Powers, and when they realize that at the center of the universe dwells Wakan-Tanka, and that this center is really everywhere, it is within each of us.
But above all you should understand that there can never be peace between nations until there is first known that true peace which, as I have often said, is within the souls of men.
In his book The Sacred Pipe: Black Elk's Account of the Seven Rites of the Oglala Sioux, Black Elk indeed rescued from oblivion the only known complete record of the seven central sacraments of the Oglala Lakota (Sioux) religion. It is a priceless document for theology scholars, and for all those interested in Native American spirituality. An important companion piece to his autobiogarphy Black Elk Speaks: Being the Life Story of a Holy Man of the Oglala Sioux
I liked reading about the reasons behind the rituals and to learn why they feel these rites are important.
I also enjoyed reading about the more subtle ideas within the rites.
The part I did not enjoy was reading the prayers.
For me reading the prayers allowed me more of an insight into what I could do differently in my own rituals and helped me to clarify for myself what I hold as important and why.My own ideas of spirituality and religion differ quite a bit from what I read here, but it was enjoyable all the same.
I'm not really sure how to rate this because it's just what Black Elk told Joseph Epes Brown, so am I rating what he told him??? These rites are fascinating and definitely worth the read. The only thing is that some of them get a little long (and redundant) as the holy men pray for everything to be in the pipe. But that is what they did, so it seems as though I'm rating the rites, but I'm really not.
This is a major book which looks in depth at an important religious tradition that still lives. It is detailed in descriptions of the rituals as well as a lengthy explanation of why things are done as they are. A deeply emotional book because it is not written in an emotional way. A genuinely American document.
Straight translation of Black Elk describing the rituals. The valuable parts where in the footnotes, where the translator explained terms in comparison to Christian, Islamic, Muslim, Buddhist, etc. concepts.
Not as good as "Black Elk Speaks", but good analysis of rituals.
Dillon, Montana
full of spiritual wisdom for those with an open mind and heart
A great book about a great American Indian tribe
Joseph Brown lived with Black Elk who later entrusted him with the spiritual details of Sioux life. Contained a few details and ceremonies I had never heard of before.
I learned so much about Native American spirituality and rituals. Highly recommend for people who are interested in Native culture.
This is a classic for anyone interested in Lakota religion and ways...
