https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/85733.Beach_Road
Spoiler alert, the main character is the killer. Shocking. Do yourself a favor and throw this book out the window and hope it hits one of the authors.
This book totally rules...much the way it rules when you are in the mood to channel surf and you happen upon a special presentation of some crappy lawyer drama from the late 90's and you go "sweet...there goes the next two hours...brain?
off."I couldn't help cracking up at James Patterson's writing.
So many shout-outs!
He is so hip and now!
Williamsburg junkies in vintage sneakers!
Parties at Steven Spielberg's house!
Sudden, random and completely out of place raunchy sex stuff!All in all it's a lazy, cheap, predictable piece of tripe.
Thanks, James!
Oh yeah and the other guy too.
Thanks, other guy.
The voice-actors were saying things like "I thought I had it figured out, but oh, was I wrong!" and "I never saw that coming!!" and "Wow!!!" In my naive 6th grade mind, I thought "Now I have to read this book.
It sounds awesome!" But oh, was I wrong.I wound up finding a copy of Beach Road at a book sale, so bought it and sat it on my shelf.
I didn't need to force myself through a boring book on vacation, ya know?Bottom line, I just now picked this up and finished reading it.
i would never read the best seller trash on my own but someone had it and I had nothing else to read. Unbelievably bad. might be the worst book I've ever read. who decidedes that this is what people should buy? complete absense of writing style, real characters, or plot. the whole book hinges on a twist that does nothing to explain or payoff anything that happened anywhere else and is completely unsupported by the events of the story. just awful.
I don't start reading a James Patterson book expecting literary genius, but this hit a new low. I don't think I've ever had my intelligence insulted by a book. Wow. RUN, don't walk away from this one.
Couldn't put this book down. This is the first James Patterson book I've read and I'm now hooked, I can't wait to read more from him. There are a ton of twists and turns, and surprises. Such a great book.
I had shelved so many James Patterson books when I worked at the library, but had only read one, the similarly titled Beach House.
I enjoyed the setting of Beach Road as well as the characters, suspense and courtroom drama, until chapter 107.
As it is, all you get is one moment of shock in chapter 107, instead of honing your detective skills.
There are so many more suspense/thriller writers who do a better job of explaining their characters motivations, even when the character is a liar.I'll have to try harder to find skillful writers instead of just popular ones!
Easily one of my favorite Patterson books. The characters seemed more compelling. The story moves very quickly, without feeling rushed. The mystery and the twist(s) were beyond intriguing. To me, it is as if other Patterson books are beautiful in black-and-white, Beach Road is spectacular in vivid color.
I gave the novel three stars, largely because I prefer a much more challenging plot and story. While the authors managed to hold my interest (admittedly, not an easy task), the work lacked stimulating intricacies. Although many readers may feel they've been duped, the ending was possibly the book's salvation.
Some shoving occurred, then someone from Dante team (all black) threatened some of the guys that were on Tom's team (who was all white).
Next thing you know, 3 white guys are dead and Dante is to blame.In usual Patterson form, the chapters are super short, and you need to see who the name of the chapter is to see who it is talking.
Not much else makes sense.
Next thing you know, you are in another country--I know, I know, what the heck am I talking about..yep, that is how the book goes.
Although I have noted that many reviews were disappointed in this offering by Patterson and DeJonge, I found the story engaging and well done.
Unlike most CD books, there was a variety of actors, a different one for each of the many characters.
Since the story was told from the variety of viewpoints, one chapter devoted to one voice, it was possible to keep the reader/listener unaware of the villain's identity.
The twist at the end took me completely by surprise, but was a satisfactory turn of events for this story.
This book doesn't measure up to an Alex Cross novel, but it has merit and is a good crime drama.
Great book with a serious twist at the end.
Nope nope nope nope but lol at the ending
I started this book forever ago and finally finished it. There is a very surprising twist at the end that was unique and enjoyable. The writing isn't anything special but this is a great weekend read.
The plot involves a young African American lad with super, almost Michael Jordan, abilities accused of a quadruple gangland style execution (of the three white players), an bad cop, a white ex-pro ball player with a blown out knee turned loser lawyer who convinces his exgirlfriend of 10 year past to leave her high-powered lawyer job in a firm that caters to rich old guys who sexually harass and rape their female employees.
The white guy loser and his nephew are the bad guys who actually set up the teen b-ball star.
The cop takes down the lawyer, who ends up getting slashed to death in prison, and girlfriend goes to the beach with her murderous dead lover's dog, Wingo, and thinks about how life goes on...or something.
Aslında 3 yıldız verecektim kitabı okurken kafamda notu belirlemiştim hatta sonu tatmin etseydi 4 yıldız bile verirdim ta ki sonunu okuyana kadar.
Sevmedim yani cidden saçmaydı bir sürü karakterin gözünden ve katilin gözünden bölümler vardı.
Ana karakterimiz bi avukat başarısız bir avukat.
Son bölümlere kadar katilin kim olduğu belliydi aslında bölüm vardı adına ama katil bizim avukat çıktı.
Ben hayatımda böyle saçma şey görmedim yani tamam katil olsun hatta hiç beklemediğim kişinin katil çıkmasına bayılırım ama adamın gözünden BÖLÜM vardı be.
Hayır anlamıyorum katil olarak tahmin edildiği kişi uyuşturucu satıcısıymış falan da kimse bu adamın bizim avukat olduğunu farketmedi mi allah aşkına.
My first Patterson read.
Good, definitely gets you hooked & wanting to keep reading.
The book is told from the point of view of basically 5 different people and I did not feel that Patterson was 100% succesful with this.
As the book would switch to a different character as first person, it really just felt the same.
His writing style didnt really vary as he changed point of view.
It just didnt fit for me.
That was the major downer of the book.
If this book was any good I never got to find out. I gave up on page 78. Frankly at that point I could not care less who the killer was. Poor writing, No disrespect to Peter De Jonge, he is probably a very capable writer. Patterson probably wrote this in his sophomore year and found it at the back of a drawer when his publisher started pushing him for a new book. I will not bother going into the story, its enough of a popular book, unfortunately it did not do it for me.
When it comes to fast paced suspense novels with completely unbelievable plots, Patterson doesn't disappoint. The perfect book to read on a sunny afternoon in a couple of hours. What a page turner.
58th book read in 2018.Number 703 out of 718 on my all time book list.Patterson book are hit and miss; this one is the latter.
Raiborne had reason to believe Dante wasn't guilty.Why didn't Manny Rodriguez recognize Tom right away?How did Raiborne know that Sean was Loco?Why didn't any of the people at the basketball court mention that Tom was a drug dealer.
Now I know this was Tom covering his tracks.Loco: "If you ask me, nothing's ruined the city more than headphones and iPods and computers." It makes sense that Sean thought this, since he worked in a record store.Kate: "I'm warning you, screw up again and you'll answer to Macklin." And he did.
The chapters are short - very short (2-3 pages) - making this a very quick and easy read.
I felt like I was flying through the book.
This is an easy weekend or beach read.What I didn't like.
The bad guy wasn't believable.
I'm all for being surprised about who the bad guy really is but it has to be believable and that wasn't the case with this book.
It just wasn't believable at all and made me feel like I wasted my time reading the book.The ending lingered.
Once the bad guy was revealed, it seemed to take forever to wrap up the story.
The author made sure you were going to fall for Tom that you’re not going to think one single bad thought about the guy.
He was some kind of a dream-come-true guy that’s why the ending was (view spoiler)[such a stab in my oh-so-fragile heart.I pity Kate the most.
Also to think that she’s got a baby with the man who loved and deceived her, how she’s going to hold up and not be overcome by anger is beyond my imagination.
The ending was heart-wrenching for me!
Tom is pretty content with his life.
He takes life one day at a time.
He loves being able to pick up a basketball game with his buddies.
When a shoving match at one of these games causes one of the other teams players to pull out a gun, Tom is the calm voice of reason that talks the kid down.
Tom doesn't think about the ruckus again until he hears that three of his buddies are in a pile on the same basketball court.
His books are usually a quick read for me which is another reason why I love them.
A disappointing thriller with an implausible twist. Patterson's style is choppy and the ending of the book is so far fetched it doesn't make any sense. I'd read Patterson books before and even though I've never been a huge fan of his, I thought they were OK. This one was pretty bad and I wouldn't recommend it to anyone.
I'd give it a 2.5. I did zip through it and was constantly being surprised but sometimes these kinds of books reach the point for me where I'm just thinking "Really? Everything that can go wrong is going wrong?"
I found the ending is based upon a total deception on the part of the authors, and this deception destroyed the book.This is a mystery novel.
As I crawled from my stupor, I wondered if I had misread things, so I started back at the beginning, reading the information Patterson and Jonge gave about the killer.
Another problem I have with Patterson; in this book he has 117 Chapters and it is divided into five Parts.
That means for every chapter there is, on average, one blank page.
For 117 Chapters and 5 Parts there are about 132 blank pages.
This book is phenomenal.
It involves multiple murders.
The murders take place on Beach Road in the Hamptons, all in all it involves a serial killer.
They case is taken on by Tom and a NY lawyer he once loved, but who now doesn't even like him, but Tom talks Kate into helping him.
Can Tom and Kate help this young man, everyone in town hates them for taking on the case.
They will not get any help from the townspeople.
This book was fantastic and the ending had me re-reading it twice.
This was a pretty good thriller. The twist at the end caught me by surprise, which is why I went with the 5 stars instead of the 4 I was originally thinking.
Great plot twist. Didn't see it coming
