https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/325718.The_Unknown_Shore
The genesis of Jack Aubrey and Stephen Maturin, need I say more?Must read for any Master and Commander fans!
Before the storied friendship of Jack Aubrey and Stephen Maturin was a gleam in Patrick O'Brian's eye, he gave the world this book featuring a very Aubrey-like young midshipman named Jack Byron and his boyhood friend, surgeon's mate Tobias Barrow—who is like Stephen in all ways short of being Irish. For a dress-rehearsal of Stephen's Irishness, see the main characters in the even earlier novel  The Golden Ocean , to which this book is a strange sort of sequel. Unlike most sequels, it does not ta
Before the storied friendship of Jack Aubrey and Stephen Maturin was a gleam in Patrick O'Brian's eye, he gave the world this book featuring a very Aubrey-like young midshipman named Jack Byron and his boyhood friend, surgeon's mate Tobias Barrow—who is like Stephen in all ways short of being Irish.
Unlike most sequels, it does not take place after the events of the earlier book, but at the same time—only from a different point of view.
Or perhaps you give a grateful sigh as you turn a page, thinking how fortunate it is that this is historical fiction, and that the main characters didn't actually exist.
There are some laugh-out-loud moments (especially the scene with the turkeys, the monument and the press gang) and some pretty thrilling scenes while rounding the Horn.Unfortunately I listened to an abridged version read by David Case, who is most obnoxious to listen to.
I much prefer Patrick Tull when it comes to O'Brian audiobooks.
He performs O'Brian.
Here, Case simply reads it and does the voices.As a result, I'll probably end up reading the book so I can really enjoy it without the frustration factor.
And I'll give any David Case-read books in the library a wide berth in the future.
'List slippers.''I am heartily sorry for it, if they offend you,' said Tobias, 'but I have nothing else to put on.''Why then,' cried Jack, 'it don't signify.' But from time to time he looked whistfully at his friend's stirrups."Haha, one of these days I'm going to compare Stephen to Toby and Jack A to Jack B."It was difficult to account for their friendship.
Poor Toby.___I just finished chapter thirteen of The Unknown Shore.'What?' said Jack, hovering at the edge of insensibility.'I have a duck,' said Tobias slowly, with his eyes already closed, 'a duck.
The Unknown Shore is the predecessor volume to the Aubrey / Maturin books that dominated O'Brian's career, and is a lively book by a young author first working out his voice and his big themes.
In the beginning the book has a charming tongue-in-cheek attitude towards its characters, and then shifts into dedicated drama written in a mature powerful voice.
In spite of the unevenness, The Unknown Shore is well worth reading, even if you are not acquainted with the grown-up O'Brian – it is quite superior to many of the books in the genre, including most of the Hornblower novels.If you want a blow-by-blow report on the events of the book, see Amazon.
I am probably like most readers of this book, a longtime fan of Patrick O'Brian, principally through the Aubrey-Maturin series.
Like them, I think O'Brian died too young at 86; the twenty books in that series were not enough.
In hopes of finding a bolt of lightning like the ones I had found in earlier readings of O'Brian's work, I picked up The Unknown Shore.
As a stand-alone volume, it lacks the density and momentum of the Aubrey-Maturin books, but it definitely shares the same parentage.
It was like finding money in the pockets of old clothing.
I read this in the middle of the night while feeding my baby and while stranded in San Diego with my husband and baby, trying to claw my way home.
But it was the perfect book for being stranded in San Diego for two days trying to make my way back to Northern California.
Because while I was stranded in San Diego, Toby and Jack were shipwrecked off the coast of Chile, starving to death amongst very unfriendly natives.
But reading this "prequel" was so much fun, I may have to sneak a few more O'Brians into my life.
I love the entire Aubrey-Maturin series, which I consider my comfort-read by now.
It can be construed kinda-sorta as a prequel to the entire Aubrey-Maturin saga, although of course it wasn't conceived that way; The Unknown Shore came before the major series, and you can see how the main characters started forming in the author's mind.
What is interesting to me is--if I had read The Unknown Shore first, I think my perceptions may have changed quite a lot--as it is very colored by the A-M series now.
Not O'Brian's best tale.
This was surprising given the marvelous flow that O'Brian usual gives his stories.
O'Brain broke the fourth wall a number of times, drawing undue attention to himself, which kept the story distant.
The Unknown Shore lacked the usual action found in sea faring tales and filled the void with a great deal of action between the shipwrecked characters.
This could have worked but failed because I did not buy in to any of them, let alone the main characters.
The story was very formulaic, perhaps O'Brian was getting a handle on his genere?
This is a fantastic addendum to O'Brian's famous canon, easily the equal to some of his best work.
The first part of the novel is so funny it is almost like a period farce.
His comic timing and use of dialect is spot on, and the ridiculous situations in which the protagonists find themselves continue to compound until the reader realizes that this is indeed a tragedy (though "it don't end unhappy," as Jack Aubrey would say).
O'Brian leaves behind his boys' story roots with this one, coming to full maturity.
This is one of my favorites of all his work.
The prototypes of our beloved Jack Aubrey and Steven Maturin are here, as are many of the themes that O'Brian will explore in much greater depth later... but the story doesn't flow as nicely as the preceding The Golden Ocean. (This is an overlapping tale, not a sequel.) Our protagonists' shipwreck and ensuing tribulations and privations are belabored, the plot adrift in the doldrums...As a companion to the Aubrey/Maturin series- specifically, as a study of the evolution of O'Brian's craft, it's OK, but doesn't stand as well on its own.
I have read all of O'brian's Master and Commander series and loved them. I had great hopes for this one, but was let down. The story skips all over the place without really focusing on anything. It was as if it was a completely different author.
Not the best of his books, but it definitely gives you a feel for the wonderful Aubrey/Maturin adventures that follow.
Byron and Barrow obtain berths in HMS Wager, a former East Indiaman, which is now being used as a supply ship for Admiral Anson's voyage to the Pacific in an effort to frustrate Spanish trade along the coast of South America.
The book has wonderful accounts of the passage of the ship around the Horn of South America.
One has to be so glad that O'Brian wrote this novel - not only for the novel itself, which is very, very good, but also because it served as a precursor for the wonder Aubrey/Maturin series that followed.
A decent book, however, it was just chock full of archaic British colloquialisms, 19th century nautical terms, and words I seldom come across.
I did particularly like his coverage of the starvation segment because we don't think of our existence without copious amounts of food at arms reach.
Lack of food changes everything, all things, brings out savage dark things in all who suffer this suffering.
One good meal or full stomach brings a new dawn of temporary rapture; and then the hunt starts again.
We are slaves to our stomachs!
At first I thought this would be O'Brian's funniest book, but the mood shifts pretty dramatically as the plot moves along. It's based on historical events and people to a degree that the Aubrey-Maturin series mostly avoids. Highly recommended, with the proviso that you really need to read The Golden Ocean first, the point to this story's counterpoint.
This book was basically the adventures of young Jack and Stephen - obviously he had those two in his head for a long time before he wrote Master and Commander. It has a lot of what makes the Aubrey/Maturin books great, but it also has some very ugly racism and religious bigotry that surprised me. I don't know if O'Brian grew past that, or if he just hid it in his later works.
Not read this before and couldn’t put it down. Love the Aubrey-Maturin series and this is definitely a precursor and based on a true story. Have all his books and now I’m retired intend to read them. This is a must for any O’Brian fan like me.
Creative fictional account of life on the seas in the eighteenth century. Demonstrates the challenge of facing unknown lands and shows how much people can endure in their desire to stay alive. Nice contrast between established society and the wilds of the unknown.
Very enjoyable for the obvious precursors to the Aubrey-Maturin series, but flawed in its story and pacing.
great prequel to the Master and Commander series
"John Byron und sein Freund Tobias Barrow gehen 1740 an Bord der „HMS Wager“, einem Schiff 6.Klasse in der Flottille von Kommodore Anson.
Während dieser „Wager mutiny“ teilen sich die Seeleute, ein Teil versucht über die Ostküste Südamerikas die Rückkehr nach England, der andere, unter der Führung des Kapitäns, will die nördlich gelegenen Städte Chiles erreichen.
Dieses Buch verknüpft auch die Abenteuer von Peter Palafox aus „Das Gold des Ozeans“, einem Roman, welcher zeitgleich auf dem Flaggschiff des Kommodores spielt.
Diese „reale Fiktion“ soll dann auch richtungsweisend für seine späteren Bücher werden.
First of all I recently finished reading O'Brian's "Golden Ocean" and when I started reading this book I discovered that it uses the same 18th century British Naval voyage used in "Golden Ocean".
Two books based on the same historical event I thought peculiar for any author let alone O'Brian.
Nevertheless, this book seems to use the historical event merely as a starting point for the story.
The main story concerns one very small support vessel, and her crew, that was a part of the naval squadron sailing to the Pacific in the mid-18th century.
There is absolutely no naval combat in this book and that's a first for me with O'Brian.
The adventure takes the squadron around the horn shortly after which, in foul weather, the Wager is run on a lee shore, and with her back broken 144 hands make it to shore on an island off the west coast of Chile.
As time progresses, the crew ashore breaks into factions with varying degrees of devotion to the Captain, and many claiming the Captain no longer commands his ship once it goes down.One of the most interesting parts of this book is that very early on, you realize you are witnessing the very birth of O'Brian's famous duo Jack Aubrey and Stephen Maturin.
The end of the book seemed rushed and not as rich in detail and attention as one expects from O'Brian.
I really liked the first half of the book; Jack and Toby are clearly studies for Jack Aubrey and Stephen Maturin, and O'Brian's humor, descriptive powers, and nautical knowledge are all as excellent as usual.
The second half, after the shipwreck, I wasn't so fond of, as the travails they go through were hard to slog through, and the descriptions of the native South American hard to stomach (even keeping in mind that this would have been how the English sailors would have seen them).
It's more than worth reading as a companion to The Golden Ocean and a precursor to the Aubrey-Maturin books, though.
O'Brian's style, familiar from Aubrey-Maturin series, is evident in the prior series, but one can tell that there is still some maturing to be done.
I also find O'Brian's narration to feel off-model at times: in the later series, he is a modern narrator but wholely familiar with the language of his characters.
The narrator, however, still lives in our time as once the narrator compares the characters' century to ours.
Again, O'Brian matures in this area for the better in later works.Jack and Tobias feel more at home afloat, and perhaps it is when they are cast ashore that the pacing drags.
O'Brian was clearly playing with the archetypes of what would become Jack & Stephen with Jack & Tobias: one the to-the-bone Royal Navy officer, the other an aloof but brilliant medical man.Overall, it is a fun read, but is clearly an earlier, rougher, less refined version of what would become Aubrey/Maturin.
There is much more plot in this book than in most of the Master & Commander series, much less conversation.
The language is excellent but not quite as polished.If you've read Aubrey/Maturin, you will definitely enjoy this book.
If you haven't, go straight to Master & Commander.
I love Toby and i love Jack.
The story is superb and i just love the relationship between Toby/Jack.
O'Brian is a nautical pioneer and i enjoy him immensely, sometimes his books do require a lot of concentration however.
Its the book you need to choose at winter time where you can spare every afternoon with a good cup of tea.
His books are especially ideal for sailors who can't get out on the old blue during the colder months.
I recommend this book, but be patient.
I wanted to stop a few times because it required so much of my time, but i soldiered on and regret nothing.
One of the few Patrick O'Brian books I haven't read 10 times already!
Somehow this one escaped my obsession a couple of years ago.
Anyway, the thing about this story is the immediate recognition that the main characters are sort of "rehearsals" for the Jack Aubrey and Stephen Maturin characters in his Master & Commander series.
One can see O'Brian trying out all sorts of things that come out later as fully-fleshed out plot lines in his other books.
Unfortunately, fully half the book finds Jack and Tobias shipwrecked and starving after their ship founders sailing around the horn of South America.
Published in 1959,The Unknown Shoreis a clear forerunner of the Aubrey/Maturin novels. The character of Jack Byron and his close friend Tobias develop into Jack Aubrey and Stephen Maturin. The novel also closely parallels history as it closely follows events when The Wager, is separated from Commodore Anson's main squadron. As with the The Golden Ocean, it was very useful to read a description and history of voyages of The Wager, and the trials and tribulations of those who survived to return home to England.
