https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35434.The_Star_Wars_Trilogy
The Force is strong here! This was the edition that I actually read for the Original Trilogy, but I did separate reviews of each Episode contained here.I did review of each Episode (IV, V & VI) featured here in this edition, just look for the separate novelization of each Star Wars movie of the Original trilogy, and you'll be able to read about my thoughts on each Episode, along with the differences found on each of those said Episodes in comparison with the theatrical films.
This is, rather, a review of the original Star Wars Trilogy catalyzed by the final episode of Lost.
That’s some pretty fair character growth, and even Bill had to concede my point, admitting that he’d missed some of those subtleties, mostly because he’d only seen each movie once, but he stood by his assessment of the Trilogy; it was crap and one good character arc wasn’t going to change that.The years passed and that debate with Bill became a file locked in my personal databanks.
What I saw in the final episode of Lost was what I should have seen all those years ago in the Trilogy.
Episode IV: A New Hope Episode V: The Empire Strikes Back Episode VI: Return of the Jedi
Star Wars -The Force Awakens was incredible, but I have questions......and we have to wait until 2017???
Yoda is in fact, BLUE. That is all. Let the stars speak for themselves.
And also, Yoda is blue for some reason.The Return of the Jedi: Easily one of the best Star Wars film novelizations in the saga (right up there with Matthew Stover's rendition of Revenge of the Sith), it's action-packed, humorous, and even touching in all the right places.
(hide spoiler)]*Like other reviewers have mentioned, Return of the Jedi's novelization contains information and backstory that directly contradicts the canon established in the prequel trilogy.
But if you're like me and have been reading all of the Star Wars film-novels in chronological order (Episode 1 and onward), then this information can be a little jarring.
Overall, a highly enjoyable read, but the somewhat disappointing novelization of The Empire Strikes Back docks it a star.
The movies of the original Star Wars trilogy (Episodes 4-6) are some of my favorite movies, so I decided to try the novelization.
There are a couple scenes of Luke with Biggs Darklighter and other friends on Tatooine that weren't in the movie, but it didn't add much to the storyline other than some more background on Luke.The Empire Strikes BackThis was always my favorite Star Wars movie.
I can't think of anything that stood out about the novelization.Return of the JediI like James Kahn's writing style best.
The writing style gets progressively worse as you move through these books. Eventually, I swore that Yoda was narrating. Just clumsy and weirdly worded.
I'm a big Star Wars fan and I've never had a chance to read any novelization set in the original Galactic Civil War. I was prepared to simply relive the Big Three, but became curious when I discovered that the novelization of A New Hope is actually the ORIGINAL Novelization from 1977 that was based on an earlier version of the script.
The action runs smoothly and the final confrontation of Darth Vader vs Luke Skywalker adds a new twist, as we get their complete thoughts and mental preparations.
It makes it that much more intense.
One could almost hear the Millenium Falcon's engines as they soared into space, or that unique sound of the jedi lightsabers, or even recall various scenes from the movies as we read them in the books, the familiar lines coming to our lips.
It gives an interesting sense of nostalgia.It was particularly nice to read some missing scenes we never got to see in the movies, like a few more moments in Luke Skywalker's training by the Jedi Master Yoda, or impassioned speeches at an Ewok assembly that would eventually lead to their alliance with the Rebels in Endor.
Reading this has inspired me to go out and order some more Star Wars books...
This is exactly what you think it is--novelizations of the movie. The introduction from George Lucas confuses me a bit, and I'm not sure if these came first or the movies came first, but it doesn't really matter. There's a little extra detail (obviously, since it's a book) which I really appreciated, but ultimately if you've seen the movies you're not going to find out a lot of new information here.
O universo criado é maravilhoso PORÉM a escrita (e tradução? não sei dizer) foi sofrível em várias partes. Livro lindo de qualquer forma.
What a great read! The Star Wars trilogy novelization is written by three different authors (one for each movie) and all of them captured the space spirit perfectly. If you like Star Wars or movie novelizations in general, you should certainly check this out!
Glut's The Empire Strikes Back and James Kahn's Return of the Jedi were little more than slightly fleshed-out versions of the film screenplays but Lucas's book felt better than that, like it was the first time he'd written about the story that was in his head.
The quality of the writing in Empire and Jedi is fairly poor and I was ready to slap James Kahn for his over-use of gambling analogies when he was describing Lando Calrissian.The other thing that struck me was that (apart from a brief mention about Boba Fett's armour being the same as that worn by the Clone Troopers) it is apparent that George Lucas had no real idea of how he wanted the plotlines for the entire saga to pan out and there are several occasions in these books where there are contradictions to the events of the films.
But, my parents already think Doctor Who is strange.
Either way, this was a birthday present from myself.
It was a good choice.
Spent a good two weeks very entertained and a bit like I was walking round with all three films.
I think Luke and his daddy have a longer convo before he dis-arms him (hehehe), but I am not sure.
The best part however is the way Darth Vader is described.
I think the author had a massive hard-on for him and basically it was amazing.
Definitely an excellent present.
I'm the wrong person to write an objective review of anything to do with Star Wars, in my opinion, nothing beats it.
Anything to do with the original films will always get five stars from me.Ok, so the novels aren't great literature and Star Wars is meant to be watched, not read.
But every fan will want this little hardcover edition of all three original trilogy novels.
The novels follow the films pretty accurately, but at times the dialogue is slightly different.
There's also a few added scenes like the Anchorhead scene in A New Hope and Luke making a new Lightsaber at the Beginning of Return of the Jedi.A must for any fan.
I started this for my three year old son. He is obsessed with Star Wars and I've never actually gotten through any of the movies. I wanted to be able to answer some of the questions he asks me while we are pretending/ playing Star Wars. I was pretty sure I could get through the books since I haven't been able to get through the movies. You can tell the books were written after the movies because they aren't as descriptive as I thought they'd be. I'm glad I read them. Now I am excited to watch the movies.
I enjoyed this series as a child and I still enjoy it today. Fun coming of age story about Luke Skywalker as he chooses between good and evil, the rebel alliance and the empire! This trilogy of stories follow the movie trilogy.
Good read, although there isn't much more background information storyline wise than there was in the movies, follows the basic screenplay. Yoda is described as being blue though in "The Empire Strikes Back" and then green in "Return of the Jedi" so that was glaringly inconsistent.
You can't call yourself a fan without having read these. Period.
These may not be the most well written books of all time, but they are really fun and enjoyable.
This book is the ultimate edition, to a star wars fans collection. It has all the unforgettable characters from the movies, and basically portraits the 3 movies (A New Hope, The Empire Strikes Back and The Return of The Jedi) in much detail. Great book.Theme(s): Adventurous and funny"Size matters not" -Yoda
Il mio amore per la trilogia originale ha inciso non poco sul voto.
For example, right on the first page, the Emperor is described as an absent overlord controlled by bureaucratic sycophants, more like Théoden than the supreme evil ruler he was in his film appearances.Surprisingly, most of the continuity errors that creep up with a sustained fictional universe like this are minor, at least between these novels and the first six movies.
Some things that seem like retcons between movies, like Leia and Luke being siblings (which is strange to reveal after they've kissed a few times), even become more plausible as being originally intended after reading the books.
I really, really enjoyed this book.
I can't even describe how much I enjoyed it.
When I first started reading it I had abandoned previous books because they weren't written well.
I was severely in need of a well written book.
My copy had actually 675 pages, but I couldn't find an edition closer to mine, so I'm just using this one to mark reading it.I didn't like the way the last one, Return of the Jedi by James Khan, was written as well as the others, but once I got into it, it was just fine.
The books followed the movies to a T, they were written very well (which I really needed), and a thoroughly enjoyed them.
The novelizations of the trilogy that made Han Solo, Darth Vader, Boba Fett, Princess Leai, Obi Wan Kenobi, and multiple other household names. Complete with every deleted scene, most of the scenes added more depth to the story.
As great as the movies!
Just AMAZING!!!! I had this still in the packaging for a whole year before I decided to read it and I was blown away!!! New fan of this series!!!
Hey, what do you expect. Actually filled the characters out a bit.
A perfect set of novels unblemished by the hands of Disney.I know I’m being a bit facetious, as in all reality, I wouldn’t call any of the 3 novels the pinnacle of amazing writing, but damn, it’s good to get back to the basics and read the original set of books that set off a franchise.What else is great about his collection is to see just how far the Star Wars story came from concept to actual completion.
Being able to read it’s original (well, published original) form is a testament to Lucas’s genius and further proof that my love of Star Wars is well grounded.
