https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/198177.Sundays_at_Moosewood_Restaurant
Nice solid cookbook - Moosewood Collective was an innovative force in vegetarian/hippie cuisine in my youth and I enjoyed this later attempt to vegetarianize ethnic and regional cuisines. This incarnation is also pescetarian with several fine fish and shellfish offerings. I didn't like the Southern regional recipes at the end as much - try The Grit Cookbook: World-Wise, Down-Home Recipes.

I was given this cookbook in college by a friend, and I've made many yummy dishes from it over the years.
This isn't a cookbook that you can browse with whatever happens to be in the fridge and find one that fits--it's one you pick a recipe from then buy specialty ingredients for.
If you don't have many cookbooks, but enjoy a wide variety of flavors, this is a good buy and easily found used.
If you have a larger collection, you might find it loosing ground to other cookbooks that go more in-depth into a particular cuisine or that features recipes that use ingredients commonly found in a well-stocked pantry.
This book has SUCH a wide variety of world wide recipes that when I first found it at a second hand bookstore, I wasn't sure where to start.
These tidbits are educational but can be easily skipped over if one is only interested in the recipes.
Part of what I love about all Moosewood books is the idiot-proof factor: no matter how amateur you may feel as a cook, they make sure the recipes are simplified and well explained, with proportions well thought out, and anyone can make them.
I love this cookbook.
I have always enjoyed the Moosewood cookbooks but this one really brings it all together offering a huge variety of tried and true vegetarian recipes that use all the best ingredients from around the world.
At the end of summer I found five different recipes of late harvest stews from around the world that used similar ingredients in a nuanced way that made each soup or stew it's own journey to a land where the native vegetables sing their own particular bouquet.
For savvy users of vegetables, spices and somewhat exotic grains, this is a must have!

wish for my own copy
First off, this book is HUGE. Recipes are separated by chef and cuisine by country/region/culture (British Isles, Jewish, Provence, etc.). There are sections about menu planning, ingredients/techniques, and a reading list at the end of the book. A sampling of favorite recipes: creamy corn soup, Wynelle's pot pie, stuffed eggplant Provençal, scones.
Great cookbook
They are well-written, with good instructions, educational explanations, and personal touches.
They don't usually have pictures, but trust me, you don't have to see pictures to know these recipes will be good.
Moosewood Sundays is a collection of ethnic/regional menus, with each section written by a person very knowledgeable about that particular cuisine.
I have cooked numerous recipes from this book and have never been disappointed.
Because this is a collection of recipes from the Moosewood Restaurant's special Sunday dinners, they do tend to take more time/effort to prepare, but if you have the time, it's completely worth it.
When I first got this cookbook I had three children living at home and because of my work schedule, didn't cook dinner all that often.
Now, looking at the "look inside" feature on Amazon, I'm hoping I still have it because I think I'd like to try a lot of the recipes.
I believe the tapenade recipe I've been making for years whenever I need an appetizer is from this book.
I noticed to my surprise that there are some fish/seafood recipes included -- Moosewood is famous for vegetarian cookbooks but I guess there are some vegetarians who don't count fish as meat.
I confess that I haven't tried a lot of the recipes in this book that was given to us years ago.
However, the Rhode Island Corn Bread (inexplicably listed under "R" in the index) and the vegetable stock section (which is actually lists of what and what NOT to include and why) are the reasons that we keep the book in a prominent section on our cookbook shelf.
The corn bread is quite grainy and rather flat but it is fabulous sliced and grilled, drizzled with olive oil, then served under barbecued vegetables and flank steak that has been thinly sliced in coins.
Flank steak is NOT a vegetable.
One of my most-used cookbooks ever.
It's probably not the most authentic authoritative source on any of these cuisines, but it seems reasonably un-whitewashed, and the mix of cuisines is really intriguing (quick, name one other cookbook with Finnish and soul food recipes in it!).
The harira (North African spiced vegetable soup), the date cake and the pilav have all been kitchen obsessions that I've eaten for weeks at a time.
I gave this book to my dad around the time I went vegetarian (talk about a self-serving present), and then ten years later, found my copy on a sidewalk in San Francisco.
There are some very good recipes in this book, including some very good desserts. The Moosewood cookbooks are not learning cookbooks, by which I mean that they do not instruct the user on cooking techniques, history, etc. They are meant for people who cook, not for people who are serious about cooking. That said, if you want a smattering of regional selections, sometimes written by people who have ancestral ties to the region, sometimes by people who have spent lots of time there, this is a good cookbook.
This book provides a complete set of recipes (appetizers, through dessert) broken down by regions. There's a great vegetarian Shepherd's Pie recipe that would be very easy to make vegan. The Turkish Spinach and Lentil Soup (with rosemary & bulgar) is one of my favorites. The Blueberry Yogurt Pie is pretty fail-safe and is made with a crust that you don't have to roll out. The dishes are vegetarian-ish (include dairy, eggs & fish). This is a good book for a beginner with a basic kitchen to expand his/her repertoire or plan a themed dinner.
Hands down, my favorite cookbook because of the variety and the fact that most dishes are vegetarian. I love reading each contributor's introduction to a cuisine and stories about the names of particular dishes (Yellowman's Banana Lime Bread and Best Peach Cobbler are standouts). Many are cuisines that we don't hear much about, like Chilean or Finnish. The recipes are easy to follow and most of the ones I've tried were very tasty. The index is excellent and there is a helpful glossary.
I thought Moosewood was all veggie, but there' some fish in here - not that I'm complaining, as I went pescatarian myself two years ago. This book does a very good job of covering the world, and much more intelligently than most; Africa is actually broken down into regions (who knew it was a continent, not a country!), as is Asia and Latin America, which is not only politically and socially but culinarily refreshing. Oh, and the food is fantastic.
I remember eating in the restaurant and being so impressed I immediately wanted to learn how to cook like that myself. I have cooked my way through this book from cover to cover with my husband and the African peanut stew and empanadas are a family favorite we make often. These recipes are a bit more complicated than in some of the other books they have produced, but the results are impressive and well worth the extra effort.
I really like how this cookbook is set up. There are 17 regions/countries/ethnicities included in the book. Each section has an introduction to the area and the cuisine being covered, which is very informative. The recipes included in each section are separated by meal or course and each section has its own table of contents to make locating recipes easier. I am interested in culture and trying foods from other parts of the world, so this book really appeals to me.
I end up using this book quite often at work, and I've recommended/purchased it for others who need to come up with creative vegetarian recipes on a regular basis.Not something I ever cooked from at home too much, but the personal stories are nice and some of the soup recipes, especially, are very good.
The best vegetarian cookbook I have ever come across. But with it comes some work. The reason for the "Sundays" in the title is because you would not want to put this much effort into cooking every day. That said, each and every one of the recipes that I have tried in this cookbook has been worth every ounce of preparation.
Now this Moosewood cookbook I like. Simple recipies from a range of cultures, and easily attainable ingredients. Also takes away the intimidation factor for those wanting to experiment with Pan-Asian and Indian cuisines. If only the food served at the actual Moosewood were as good as most of these recipies...
Excellent ethnic recipes for dishes from around the world. Try the brussel sprouts and carrots; I think this is in the UK section. My husband, who was totally turned off of brussel sprouts as he'd never tasted them when cooked properly, loves this dish. I typically make it for Thanksgiving and Christmas dinners.
I never like Moosewood cookbooks, and I should probably stop buying them. In this case, I found that none of the included recipes sounded better than those included in my "ethnic" (as in, "not American") cookbooks. It's never good when I go through every page of a cookbook and am not tempted to cook anything described therein....
My go-to cookbook for all of my CSA veggies. I can't open this cook book without finding something I want to make. A good variety of cuisines, many of which I don't see (or taste) on a regular basis. The cook book is vegetarian but even non-vegetarians should be able to find something intriguing. Love the variety of soups.
343501 A delightfully diverse cookbook organized by region/country. Sometimes a bit complicated and often with specific ingredient lists, it none the less is proving to be a great collection of recipes. And one you get around to making them, quite handy, such as the black bean ful which is not only delicious but easily storable (which is good, as these aren't recipes for one).
The Moosewood collective has produces tons of cookbooks. This is the international one. The chapters are organized by country or region. It's a great vegetarian resource. Two favorite recipes are the creamy Mexican corn soup and the white bean and garlic soup from Provence.
If ever there was a cookbook to reaffirm commitment to world ethnic growth this is it. Could not wait to try each countrys cuisines. Recipes were concise, simple to follow and thoughtful in their designs. Recommend this as introduction to world cuisine for very level of cook.
I don't use this cookbook much any more, but it's a great intro to vegetarian cooking in a wide variety of cuisines. It was one of the first cookbooks I owned, and a lot of my early cooking came from its recipes - especially in the days when I was too intimidated to cook meat most of the time.
Excellent vegetarian cookbook for cuisines from around the world. Each chapter, and each recipe is accompanied by stories about the author's connection to the region and to its food, which makes dipping into the book for a little culinary inspiration all the more enjoyable.
