https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/232567.The_Phenomenon_of_Man
Right or wrong, De Chardin is one of the few scholars who have even attempted to come up with an answer to the unanswerable question “what is the goal of evolution?" Few books I have read attempt to deal with such BIG thoughts.And rather than attempt to summarize all his thinking, I’ll just try to catalog some of the things that in my opinion he predicted or prefigured in this work:The very modern idea of the “Anthropocene” – the idea that the most modern geological era is due to human influence.

This book intends to describe the past and future evolutionof life.
Many of the scientific concepts expressed in thefirst half of the book have been superseded by more recentdevelopments.For me, the main interesting concept in the book is the assertion that human consciousness is an aspect of evolution.
Also that evolution has a goal, i.e. the increasingcomplexity of human consciousness (called noosphere) whichwill culminate in the final super-humanized form (p.
259)which the author calls the Omega point.Since the author was trained as a priest, it would have beenhelpful if he had given insight as to why/how religionplays such a large part in human consciousness.
Teilhard de Chardin was both a Jesuit priest and a paleontologist. He found that his scientific work supported his beliefs as a priest. His argument is of a stunning simplicity.-1- matter organizes itself towards life-2- life organizes itself towards Christ-3- earthly matter has only transformed itself into living matter once and no longer does so-4- man cannot repeat the original transformation of matter into life in a laboratoryThe implication of this is that the evolution of life on this planet is a divine process as much as it is a natural process.
He offers a picture against both an atheist or, on the other side of the spectrum, a pantheistic perspective of evolution.
Evolution is goal directed towards an outward movement towards the perfect, and at the same time inwardly towards complexity which all culminates in what he calls an “Omega Point”.
He also confesses that the problem of evil poses, well, a problem, but offered no solution to how free will/determinism and evil play out in his picture.
His defense for skipping over this was simply that it was too complex to be addressed in a work that was trying to offer a picture of homogeneity.
This may sound romantic and completely absurd to our western sensibility, but as Dr. Sten Odenwald, astronomer at NASA's Goddard Spaceflight Center, stated on his website astronomycafe.net in reply to a question about our knowledge of gravity, “We don't really understand ANYTHING about our physical world at the deepest level, such as why does gravity exist?” Why couldn’t love, enlarged to subsume the law of mutual attraction that binds the universe together, seek also the unification and concord of human spirits?
Teilhard’s conception of an Omega Point of absolute human union (globalized love) is entirely pertinent in our culture of social networking.
But there are enough interesting lines, images, and trains of thought throughout to make the whole read worthwhile, and the last third of the book in particular gets into some really interesting (if brazenly biased) spiritual territory.In my opinion, Teilhard is at his best when he explores overtly the spiritual reality of mankind, describing it with a sense of optimism and purpose while couching it in the evolutionary framework that he presents (and, to be fair, that is essentially the crux of the entire book, it just gets lost in the mix at times).
Well-written, intellectual, but wrong book.De Chardin tried to connect the unconnected things: Christianity, naturalism, pantheism and nietzscheanism.Allegedly, evolution and natural selection have led to the birth of men.
In turn, men can become supermen and create the God by a method of merging.The author makes extremely doubtful assumptions.For example, an initial substance supposedly has a consciousness or spirit and this has led to the emergence of life.
???In addition, de Chardin ignores many facts.
In particular, natural selection reinforces the existing norm, and doesn't lead to the perfection/development of life.Random mutations lead to degradation and death (and not to the development).Human nature is depraved and puny (especially in comparison with the scale and age of the Universe).Two Stars.
I've known Teilhard de Chardin's name and influence even long before I became interested in religion myself, and this book was a long time in coming.
And a long time in finishing, it just didn't woo me.His prose is stronger than his argument.
His science is not up to modern standards, but nor in many ways his own.
What continuously bothered me was how often he resorts to normative statements, analogies between unrelated things and such to make both scientific and theological claims.
Fanciful analogy.
I don't dislike his attempt at a synthesis or a grand scope of things, only the result.
However, I was not as knowledgeable about certain scientific subjects as I am now so I do believe a re reading is in order.
I have forgotten most of the book but there are certain images that have stuck with me throughout my life.
It is definitely a very entertaining read but like all works of man that have to do with the deepest understandings of the universe and life, it is most likely flawed and lacking in certain respects.
This is undoubtedly no fault of the man himself but just a reflection of the limits of human knowledge.
His work is so steeped in a deep understanding of paleontology and evolutionary biology that it holds up remarkably well today, even if the sections of this book that deal with those particular topics seem very dated.
His scientific background is really just a support for this book's philosophical/theological core, and that is the other thing that makes this book so striking: if you knew nothing of its background, you wouldn't realize you were reading the work of a Jesuit until Book 4, a few hundred pages in.
Regardless of what you may believe religiously or know scientifically, this is deep thinking on human evolution that will challenge and inspire any reader.
This book changed my view of both religion and science, areas in which Teilhard was expert. His explanation of the convergence of the two over many millenia is breathtaking in its scope and novelty. Reading this book was life-changing for me.
Pierre Teilhard De Chardin in The Phenomenon of Man develops a view of evolution as an enduring and comprehensive process, a three-fold synthesis of the material, physical and the world of the mind and spirit (consciousness; this somewhat reminds me of the development of consciousness via Hegel’s Phenomenology of Spirit).
It is a fascinating read in terms of thinking about the leap(s) and development of human consciousness.
The biosphere is the earth of the layer of living things and the noosphere is really about the layer of thinking beings and, in fact, of consciousness.
This book, considered his greatest work, is indeed an ambitious undertaking - a deep look at evolution from the very formation of our planet through to where he views we are heading (and already have at our center), the Omega of a united consciousness.
While the science is dated, of course, it is beautiful to read such a fine mind at work, and here and there he comes up with some thrilling observations about what it is to be alive, to be conscious.
I wanted to like this book, but unfortunately the author failed to maintain scientific rigour in his conclusions. The author himself suspected he had succumbed to "vain ideology", but he simply hoped it was more than that. It's unfortunate, because had he not fallen into this trap, some of his ideas could have been salvaged using just a bit more scientific discipline. For what its worth, I still enjoyed reading about his ideas, especially since I see pieces of them reflected in modern theories.
Hard to enjoy a book when you disagree with the fundamental principles.
I return to Teilhard often to be challenged and enlightened. Sometimes difficult but always worth it
read it 30+ yrs ago. it is still on my bookshelf and comes out to play at irregular intervals. that alone says a lot.
Và rằng, con người liệu có là một "hiện tượng" của Trái Đất như các giống loài khác suốt vài tỷ năm qua không?
Liệu con người có biến mất khỏi Trái Đất như loài Khủng long hay liệu có tiến hóa trở thành một sinh vật mới - một "siêu nhân" như những gì mà "kẻ tâm thần" Nietzsche tôn sùng và tin tưởng.
Và rằng con người vẫn phải sống, vẫn chỉ là một hiện tượng, vẫn đang là vài giây ngắn ngủi trong 24 giờ đã qua của Trái Đất.
The author--French philosopher, paleontologist, and Jesuit priest--organized this book into three parts that lead into a coherent and revealing picture of the earth.
My interest is to learn about Pierre Teilhard de Chardin's description of the noosphere--the collective consciousness of humanity in the immersive networks of thought and emotion--borrowed from the Soviet mineralogist and geochemist Vladimir Vernadsky.
In part 3, the author introduces the development of the "noosphere" by describing the earth as "the phosphorescence of thought" (183).
Currently, we participate in a harmonized collective (unity, mega-synthesis) of consciousness that leads to "a sort of super-consciousness" (251).
This book is a tough one.
About half of the time one can't help but think: 'what did this guy smoke?', but at the same time it is really quite fascinating.
However, the scientific details both on consciousness and radial and tangential energy do not seem to be accurate (although I am not a physicist, so I'm guessing here), turning the whole story into something of a myth rather than science.
Also, his writing is a bit unwieldy, very French.In short: good in the thinking department, not super good in the science one.
We were introduced to Pierre Teilhard de Chardin a few years ago at a spirituality conference. We felt lost at the conference, but have continued to so very often see and hear his name and works mentioned, we felt we should read his most famous work, The Phenomenon of Man followed by his book The Divine Milieu. Well, we trudged through The Phenomenon of Man but with persistence and difficulty, so I’m not sure we’ll even try The Divine Milieu. Maybe we should go straight for an eNotes Study Guide for Phenomenon and The Divine Milieu Explained.
Reading this book when I did, it was difficult not to think of the recent - and in my view absurd - debate between Ken Ham and Bill Nye. Once again religion and science were presented to the public as two rival systems: a state many of us find endlessly frustrating.
For those who have read N.T. Wright's work, think of this book as the scientific backbone for Wright's Kingdom of God theology.
That's a shame, because this work can actually be seen as a defense for conservative Christianity (provided, that is, that we're using the adjective in a technical sense rather than a cultural one).
An extraordinary book by renowned paleontologist and Jesuit priest Teilhard de Chardin, which essentially traces the history of life on planet Earth in order to think about where life might be headed in the future.
One of the most captivating aspects of the book is Teilhard's account of the development of consciousness, which evolutionary theory has not thought much about.
Teilhard proposes that the growth of external complexity is paralleled by a growth of inward complexity, so that just as more complicated organisms are able to do more things, so more neurons in the mind give rise to deeper and deeper reflection, until in humanity we reach the point of self-consciousness and self-reflection.
As a work of philosophy and speculative non-fiction, it's a superb attempt at trying to ground human development with a basis in hard science. As a work of science, it's amazing how well it holds up, having been written around 1940, when molecular biology, genetic evolution, and cybernetics were all in their infancy. Out of Control: The New Biology of Machines, Social Systems, and the Economic World provides a slightly more modern, yet still remarkably consistent, picture of the idea of how evolution itself is evolving, and the destiny of man and the machines that he has created.
The author has very interesting points that definitely make a lot of sense.
Since he was both a Jesuit and a scientist, Teilhard De Chardin links spirituality and evolution in a wonderful way.
The only problem I had with this book was that some of the author's arguments were stated as intuitive, but actually appeared to me to be counter-intuitive.
On a whole, I think this book brings up some astounding points.
They have changed the way I look at the world in some respects.
If only I could have gotten myself past the thin arguments, I probably would have given The Phenomenon of Man 5 stars.
During the years I encountered many references to this book and its a author. While it's anthropological data seem to much for a casual reader, its hypotheses and conclusions made it worthwhile. It managed to bring up some of the most enduring questions and dilemmas that I struggled with over the years, and it brought interesting new points of view to the table.While I was familliar with the general idea of the book, I was pleasantly surprised by its eloquence and clarity.I am no anthropologist, but I think Teilhard de Chardin manages to prove his thesis with resounding success.
The book is best read with a discussion group and commentary from people like Cynthia Bourgeault and Ilia Delio. I and 2 others facilitated an 8 month series based on the work of Teilhard. We used Anne Hillman's book Awakening the Energies of Love and Kathleen Duffy's Teilhard's Mysticism, the essay The Heart of the Matter and a series of DVDs with Ilia Delio. Really getting Teilhard's mysticim takes living into the energies of the evolution of love.
The Patron Saint of the Internet presents his theory of...well, everything. From the beginning of the universe to its ultimate culmination in the Omega point, Teilhard de Chardin explains the process that is God. Very interesting reading. Wish I were smart enough to fully grasp everything he presents!
The book was important in the first half of the 20th century. Flannery O' Conner liked him. However, I don't think his work will last. His effort to merge modern science and theology is not very strong. His understanding of the physical sciences is far too weak. There will be better efforts that his.
