https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6648041-les-miserables
বাচচাকালে এই বই পড়ে ২টা জিনিস জানতে পারছিলাম।১মানব জীবন খুব একটা সুখের কিছু না২ লেখকরা নিজেদের মন মত গলপের চরিতর গুলারে কষট দিতে মেরে ফেলতে পছনদ করেন।কলাসিকাল আলোচনা থাকুক, ২টা বড় শিকষা পাইছি বইটা থেকে এইটাই যথেষট। ৫তারা কারন আমি বইটাকে ভালবাসি।
বাচ্চাকালে এই বই পড়ে ২টা জিনিস জানতে পারছিলাম।১মানব জীবন খুব একটা সুখের কিছু না২ লেখকরা নিজেদের মন মত গল্পের চরিত্র গুলারে কষ্ট দিতে মেরে ফেলতে পছন্দ করেন।ক্লাসিকাল আলোচনা থাকুক, ২টা বড় শিক্ষা পাইছি বইটা থেকে এইটাই যথেষ্ট। ৫তারা কারন আমি বইটাকে ভালবাসি।
How that managed to be  so infinitely more boring  than even the section on convents in the Brick I will never know.
Somehow, though, it was a book I never knew the ending to, despite it being talked about all over the Internet.When I did get a chance to finally read it (but not the edition listed here), I was more confused than anything — not about the story but why it's so deified.
And the way Hugo managed to weave everyone's stories into one life in 19th century France was done very well also; I never felt that the connections between the characters were forced.As a whole, though, the entire text is a slow read.
Having seen the musical once and listened to the soundtrack hundreds of times it was interesting to read the novel when you go into it knowing all the characters but only having a vague memory of the story.
I'd put this book in that category of special and rare books I consider "life changing" in that I cannot stop thinking about it every day multiple times a day.
In some ways there are similarities to the Dickensian cliff hanger but it goes beyond that.
which by the way, I should have saw coming, right?
So she leaves her daughter, Cosette, with some innkeepers, the Thenardiers, and promises to send them money to take care of her.
Valjean escapes from prison and goes to get Cosette.
Cosette is the first real love Valjean has ever known.
One day he sees Cosette sitting in the park with Valjean and he instantly falls in love with her.
At the barricade, Javert is caught as a spy and Eponine, the Thenardiers eldest daughter, sacrifices herself to save Marius.
Marius sends a boy, Gavroche to give Cosette a letter, but Valjean intercepts it and goes to the barricade to protect him.
Jean Valjean is our main character, a convict.
As a changed man, albeit one hiding from the law under an assumed name, Jean takes up an honest trade, becomes quite wealthy, does good to the poor, and comes in contact with Fantine.
Another entire volume is written about this particular woman, who represents the suffering of all women under an unjust and uncaring society.
The remainder of the story revolves around his selfless acts on the daughter’s behalf, despite evil forces that seek to destroy them, and the love that springs up between them (interspersed, of course, among two more volumes about other characters that seem unrelated until they cross paths with Jean).
This book was a tough read for me, partly because of the language used and mainly because the author has the tendency to go to extreme depths to introduce a character or to build up the plot.
Whenever I came across such a piece while reading the book it was hard to stay motivated to read the book till the end.
Hide and seek between the protagonist Jean Valjean and Inspector Javert are in a way thrilling and fun to read.The book is about selfless love and that it's very hard for you to escape your past.
VH used so many words I have nothing to add... :) Other than a confession that about halfway through I started skimming the expository parts and it still took me 3 months to read this book! The translation I read was superb. I can see why this is a classic.
It is devastating to think how relatable and applicable this book remains today. Even in this form, the voices of the characters and the pain in them didn't fail to touch me. I will definitely read the full length book.
Watched the movie.....and simply had to read the book .Yes....a five star .
The story is so good and the writing beautiful but his background stories are often incredibly boring
Les Misérables: the name is a diamond among literary buffs. Commonly associated with the acclaimed 1980 opera, Les Misérables is Victor Hugo’s powerful gospel of French society. The novel chronicles the tale of Jean-Valjean, a former convict who embarks on an Odyssey of absolution in the years following his release from prison. He had been imprisoned for nineteen years: five for stealing a loaf of bread to feed his sister’s starving children, and the additional fourteen years being the result o
By placing the law itself as the main antagonist--influencing the many hardships endured by several of the novel’s characters--Hugo not only able to throw light to the cruelty of the French justice system, but also manages to criticise French society in general.Despite such achievements, the novel is significantly impaired by its childish over-reliance on transgressions to tell the story.
The way the story intertwines the lives of many different characters into one makes the tale seem far more realistic than most other novels, which focus solely on the life & times of a single character.
Les Misérables is an astounding social gospel that accurately criticizes French society.
Les Miserables by Victor HugoIs there any book more famous than Les Miserables?Maybe dan Brown’s Inferno…And then many people know the name from the many adaptations based on the book.When I look some book up on the net, there is a tendency to find first the movie and only then the book.The other day it happened with Breakfast at Tiffany’s and I will not Was it last year that another production was nominated for many Academy Awards and even won a few?The story of Jean Valjean, Cosette, Marius and Javert is so powerful that we tend to remember these names and their story forever.In fact, I have read this book when I was a teenager; it impressed me in spite of the fact that I thought the start too slow.Another encounter with Valjean was in…London, oddly enough.At the time, some twenty years ago, I was working in the travel business and British Airways had invited someone from our agency to explore their new Club Class.Or was it some other name?
However, if you're willing to set aside time to embark on this literary journey, I highly recommend this read.Jean Valjean is a bread thief who is finally released from prison after 19 years, most of his time amounting from multiple escape attempts.
As we know, these problems were far from over, but this book's messages of hope indicate the underlying hope amongst the multitude of fears.Original Broadway musical Javert, Terrence Mann, describes Les Mis as a story about "the triumph of the human spirit" and I couldn't agree more.
I not only recommend this book, but I implore you to read it.
At the same point Jean Valjean really judges Marius just because he admires Cosette and that seemed just as bad as everyone treating him as if he is the devil just because he stole a loaf of bread twenty years before.
Valjean is a bit too "noble" in my opinion - what is the point of telling Javert who he is when Javert isn't even suspicious anymore and everyone thinks the criminal Jean Valjean is dead?
He goes through all this trouble to hide his identity for years and then tells who he is to the one person who might care as soon as he sees him.
Or when something super crazy and unexplained happens in a story that changes everything so much that you have to stop reading and just stop and process it?
This book has more than one of those (and I've never seen more than one in a story before).
It's an amazing blend between fantastic story telling and profound thoughts on life.For those who haven't read it, my recommendation is to try to read it during a period where you have absurd amounts of free time.
Part of what makes this book so good is just how comprehensive it is.
I read it on the recommendation of a high school teacher for a project and never looked back.
I honestly didn't expect to like it.
I actually read an abridged version and it was still rather heavy.
After I read the book I found out there was a musical.
(Not that he doesn't have a nice voice but it was very clearly ill-suited to the genre, and stuck out like a sore thumb.
Still sobbed like a baby.) Just, if you ever have some time on your hands and wan't to simultaneously loose and regain faith in humanity, read it.
I will continue to read Victor Hugo; I feel like a connect to his ideals and sympathies.
I plan to re-read significant (to me) issues when I am not in the excitement of the story.
For example, Hugo's thoughts about the effect of abject poverty/the bottom of society on children who are never supported, and that situation which can change a human being.
I skimmed a lot of this book...really, 50 pages on the details of the Waterloo battle, and the cloister convent, ++ unbelievably tedious for me.But, I loved the story and the philosophy presented while interwoven with lives that I really believed and cared about.
" That is how God balances things out.He watches us all from above and knows what he is doing among his splendid stars." This quote struck me as I read the final page and I couldn't stop thinking about the meaning behind it .As jean said this quote at the end I understood the justice that came later in the novel that fantine was as rich in sorrow as cosette was in happiness ..this is mother's love !
Hope to read another masterpiece for victor hugo very soon
" That is how God balances things out.He watches us all from above and knows what he is doing among his splendid stars." This quote struck me as I read the final page and I couldn't stop thinking about the meaning behind it .As jean said this quote at the end I understood the justice that came later in the novel that fantine was as rich in sorrow as cosette was in happiness ..this is mother's love !
Hope to read another masterpiece for victor hugo very soon
Les Miserables is one of my all-time favorite books and operettas about a poor man named Jean Valjean, a poor man who steals bread and is sent to prison.
He escapes prison which angers the police man, Javert who spends his whole life looking for him.
Jean Valjean meets a priest who gives him candlesticks to start a new life.
As a new man, Jean Valjean becomes mayor and changes his entire lifestyle and what kind of person he wants to be.
Javert spends his whole life looking for him but eventually catches him and lets him go.
New York: Modern Library.
Reader Response: I had a hard time understanding this book.
However, because I read it in English class we were able to discuss it better.
It was a hard read for me but some parts were better than others.
I think it is a sad book, so not my favorite of all time, but still good content.
Teacher Response: Personally I think this is a trickery book to teach because it is considered a “disturbing” book.
This book, if read, needs to be read in a classroom.
I say this because students need to be able to have discussions and ask the questions they have.
That was really disheartening, as I had believed (from seeing the film and play before reading the book) that he had done it out of love.
Still an amazing book but I gotta knock it a 1/2-star because of my crushing disappointment.
This is one of the only times I will ever say that the movie (starring Hugh Jackman) was as good as the book.
If you haven't seen it, my advice to you is that you seriously consider having a bucket handy for all of your tears.My review of the movie is free and my gift to you fine people.
Then again, so is my review of the book.
I think I would give this book four and a half stars simply because of the long narratives about the Battle of Waterloo, the sewers of Paris, etc., but the author's language (even translated) is amazing.
(It took 3 or 4 months, I don't remember exactly how long, and I skimmed through a lot of the aforementioned long narratives.)After having seen the Liam Neeson movie and the musical movie, I enjoyed reading the book and having the story and the characters fleshed out more.
The way the pieces of the story fit together was well-crafted.
Overall, a great piece of literature.
I was extremely surprised at how quickly I fell in love with this book.
The language is amazing and very easy to understand.
I never wanted to put it down and basically didn't on vacation (I read 1300 pages in 5 days).
I knew I loved the story of Les Mis from the movie, but you don't get to experience the full measure of jean valjeans character without reading the book.
They definitely couldn't fit a 1500 page book into a movie or I'm assuming a play.
Definitely one of my favorites now.
I did a bad thing and saw the movie before I read the book, however it was interesting to see how they compare and as far as the main points of the book go they did well to cram it all into the movie!
Anyway..There were a few parts that seemed a chore to get through (and perhaps irrelevant to the rest of the story!), but it doesn't take away from the brilliant characters.
I loved reading the backstory of the characters and how they connect with each other and once I got to the last half of the book I couldn't put it down.
I actually cried reading the last few chapters!
OMG this book isn't for the faint hearted, after seeing the musical and watching the film(I no I shouldn't watch the film before reading the book I'm sorry) I knew I was ready for the sad and the very sad parts, but few!
Victor Hugo really captures the trauma and misery of the French revalution, the type I read had a translation at the bottom of the pages to help with the French part but personally I think the sad thing is that Mousier and Madame Thénarder wasn't in the story that much and also are not as funny as the musical/film
Just once in my life I wanted to read the WHOLE thing.
It took me months, but I did it!
I adored Jean Valjean (and agreed with him about Marius--he was kind of a ninny)and hated the Thenardiers (the were delectably wicked, though).
Ironically, if I hadn't have read the whole thing, I might have given it 5 stars instead of 4.
I didn't see the point of the long, explanatory chapters.
And there were some descriptive chapters I just didn't get because they pertained to customs and personalities of the setting that were unfamiliar to me.
The plot is very good, and the writing is excellent, but I did not like it because Victor Hugo couldn't shut up.
And lets not forget the part of the battle of Waterloo, that I liked a lot, but tat had nothing to do with the plot.
Had he took those pages and published them as another text I would love it, but he didn't.Victor Hugo could have been a great writer if anyone would had had the courage to tell him that he had potenciall but that he needed to improve a lot
In 1815 twenty six years after the start of The French revaluation , a king is once again on the throne of France.Anyhow , this is the story of 24601.This is the number of a prisoner whose name is Jean Valjean. He spends 19 years in jail for stealing a loaf of bread. Look down, look downDon't look 'em in the eyeLook down, look downyou will always be a slave Look down, look down,You're here until you dieI stole a loaf of bread.My sister's child was close to deathAnd we were starving.
