https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/467573.The_Last_100_Days
John Toland writes clearly and is able to move from the high levels (Churchill and Roosevelt, Hitler) to the details of individual soldiers on the battlefield.
He points the finger clearly at Stalin and the Soviet Union for the suppression of Poland (and for that matter the rest of Eastern Europe).
As Mr. Toland demonstrates the promises for free elections and the participation of the London Poles in the new government were never kept – in fact the London Poles were incarcerated upon their arrival in Moscow.The description of Mussolini’s last days is lurid.
Mr. Toland writes at a personal level and captures well those harrowing days.
Interesting look 'behind-the-scenes' at the last 100 days of World War II in Europe.
The Germans (Italy and Mussolini get a mere two chapters!), with all the usual players: Roosevelt, Churchill, Stalin, Eisenhower, Bradley, Patton, Montgomery, Truman, Dulles, Smith, Harriman, Hitler, Göring, Goebbels, Himmler, Speer.
Political wranglings, military manoeuvrings, agreements made & broken, 'displaced persons', refugees, the usual war-time atrocities (mass rape, looting, killing, you know...), POW camps, concentration camps, executions, suicides, partisans, and let's not forget the controversial fire-bombing of Dresden.
'We didn't start the fire, it was always burning, since the world's been turning...' The potential for the human race to be absolutely cruel to itself seems to know no bounds...
Having read at least two of Toland's books previously, I picked this one up with some confidence and was not disappointed. Toland, a professional writer, not an academic historian, effectively weaves into his grand historical narrative enough small illustrative examples that the reader is repeatedly reminded of the personal, human dimension of war. Much of his material is original, based on his interviews with survivors.
John Toland's The last 100 Days is a countdown about Europa's front; like a novel Toland tell us from many points of view, simultaneous testimonials of soldiers or leaders, with a great narrative the author tell us historical events based on diaries and war documents, Toland describes important events like conference at Yalta, or the devastation of Berlin.In conclusion the book help us understand the war's final on Europe. More 50 years after final of war, Toland's work is one of the best books about WWII. Highly recommend.
Esto es muy importante tenerlo en cuenta porque es uno de sus principales atractivos y a la vez su mayor defecto.Escrito por John Toland, un periodista americano metido a historiador cuyas obras publicadas en los años 60 y 70 gozan de gran prestigio en los USA.El primer punto a destacar es el estilo del libro, es una reconstrucción narrativa de los hechos, no un ensayo histórico al uso.
Al final del libro hay una extensa bibliografía donde el autor justifica los hechos que cuenta o reconstruye, aun así se me hace difícil de creer, sobre todo los diálogos reconstruidos entre los habitantes del Bunker de Berlin.
The last 100 days of the Nazi regime have long remained clouded by the fact that it was the Soviet armies that reached Berlin first and afterwards controlled the information surrounding the end of it all.
John Toland's "The Last 100 Days," first published in 1966, was therefore a welcome addition to the growing literature on the end of the regime.
Impatient army commanders resented every delay, while at home, political leaders tried to balance the final thrust to victory against the prospect of further warfare in Europe, once the Germans were beaten.
That said, it settles down about halfway through and gets much easier to follow.It was very eye opening and informative, however the fact that it was written by an American and published during the height of the Cold War I can't help but feel some of the descriptions of the Soviet armed forces are a bit biased.
It isn't that I don't think they're factual, but they seem a bit less objective than descriptions of others, including the Germans.That said, it definitely includes one of the more frank discussions of the bombing of Dresden, and some of the less than stellar decisions Roosevelt and Churchill made towards the end of the war.
-En su momento, ejemplar y de referencia. Ahora no tanto.-Género. Historia.Lo que nos cuenta. Visión casi periodística, con momentos novelados, de los últimos cien días de Segunda Guerra Mundial en el frente europeo a través de un gran número de participantes en los hechos. Libro también conocido como “Los cien últimos días” (sí, en serio).¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers? Visite:http://librosdeolethros.blogspot.com/...
I thoroughly enjoyed this book, but it is heavy duty history with a lot of direct quotes from original source material. I think the time period, last 90 days of WWII, was a very critical time period for the world, but for the US in particular as it shaped the opening of the Cold War. Highly recommended for history buffs, not so much for those looking for history lite or only entertainment.
This book is amazing...it has everything!!! it show us how the people (german, amarican and russian soldiers, etc)lives these final days and in the same time represents the final experiences of characters so important like Hitler, Mussoulini and Rosevelt and the the impresions of Stalin and Churchill
Much of the draw for my WWII hobby is the information regarding organizational and individual leadership behaviors. This work was particularly good at describing the interpersonal and organizational dynamics of Hitler's inner circle.
A revelation (in the apocalyptic sense).
It seems that the settlement of the war was an overly academic and tone deaf understanding of historical forces.
The seething appetite for revenge that animated communism, masquerading as millenarian revelation was only another side of the same coin motivating Germany.
Roosevelt was naive, and cunning.
Cunning regarding his own people; naive regarding others.
Of the 'big three' - only Churchill seemed to understand what awaited in the next fifty years.Philosophically, you see what is unleashed in total war.
The chapters represent a slice of time and contain, in most cases, multiple scenes / sections that are occurring roughly in tandem during that slice of time.Character development is not a strength of this book, so if you have read other books about WWII, you will more likely enjoy it.
This is because you will likely have a better chance of knowing a little about the secondary players that were involved.
This book will still provide you details that you didn't know but your knowledge will allow you to appreciate that detail more.Not for everyone but if you love books on WWII, then this is the book for you!
Exhaustively researched and engagingly written, John Toland's account of the last 100 days of World War II can be fairly described as riveting.
All the usual suspects are here: FDR, Churchill, Stalin, Hitler, Mussolini, and Truman.
But so are their underlings — cabinet members, secretaries, ministers, generals and their subordinates, ethnic partisans, et al.
— with detailed accounts of their maneuverings, diplomatic and military, as well as transcripts of their conversations from historical records.
Do it now!"Despite the book's finite timetable — 100 days — I didn't want it to end, which is the measure of every great book.
A very readable history of the last 100 days of World War II in Europe.
It's both a historical account (like a textbook almost) but also very readable.
That said, there is so much detail of names and places, the facts occasionally detract a little from the overall fabric of the story.
A map of Europe at one's elbow (much more detailed than on the end flaps) would help.
Particularly interesting was the restraint shown by the western Allies in terms of territory conquered.
We really tried to keep the Russians happy, to the point of naivete.
The book was written in 1965, 20 years after the German surrender, and many survivors of the war - both leaders and common soldiers - still were alive.
The author interviewed many of these survivors and included their recollections to augment the history.
As he says in the introduction, none of the dialogue is fictional - all is based on the recollections of individuals who were at the events recorded in the book.The book provides many minute details of various events in the last four months of the war.
Because of the amount of detail included, the book at times becomes just a bit tedious.
Yet its value to the history of WWII is in the very details that it records.
If you are a WWII history buff and really want details about the end of the war in Europe, then this is the book for you.
While the book is well written and researched to an inch of its life, it was a tough read for me.
I read and finished it because it was the month's selection for my book club; otherwise, I know I wouldn't have finished it.
I gave this book 3 stars because I did learn quite a bit -- Toland brings this part of history very much to life.
Interesting history, with much new information for me, but more details than I wanted in many places. Very long book. Heavy on facts and light on analysis. The biggest problem with this book was the audiobook - by far the worst reader I have encountered in 10 years of reading audiobooks. The reader spoke in a droning, haughty British accent, but most annoyingly, he swallowed or mumbled the last word of almost every sentence. I completely lost the meaning of many sentences. This audiobook should definitely be re-read by an intelligible reader.
I was torn between 4 and 5 stars for this one, but ultimately settled on 4.
I agree with some of the other commenters that you should have a WWII map of Europe beside you when you read the book, plus Google so you can look up who all the people are.
He has an encyclopedic knowledge of the geography and the people involved, and he assumes you do too.
It's still an excellent read about the last days of the war and is mostly accessible to the casual reader
Good, but maddingly jumpy in coverage: big picture Yalta / Leaders conversations, recollections of POWs, battle accounts from 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 different locations, recollections of refugees, much Hitler minutiae.... All of it is variously interesting and enough of it is new to me, but it is such a hodgepodge. Like 1000 anecdotes about the last 100 days.
A thorough, well-written account of the close of the European part of World War II, focusing on desperate efforts all around to keep Russia from taking over the whole shebang. Do wish the author had condensed some of the description of high-level negotiations and given the space to show the experience of the average soldier and civilian.
When picking up a Toland history you can count on a gripping narrative that is both meticulously researched and highly readable. It is remarkable that his account of the last 100 days of World War II manages to ramp up the drama despite the known outcome. Recommended!
Great Book. So much I had not read before.
Informative, Well done, looking at this time period in a different way. I enjoyed it immensely.
To reconstruct the tumultuous hundred days between Yalta and the fall of Berlin, John Toland traveled more than 100,000 miles in twenty-one countries and interviewed more than six hundred people--from Hitler's personal chauffeur to Generals von Manteuffel, Wenck, and Heinrici; from underground leaders to diplomats; from top Allied field commanders to brave young GIs. Toland adeptly weaves together these interviews using research from thousands of primary sources.
When it was first published, "The Last 100 Days" made history, revealing after-action reports, staff journals, and top-secret messages and personal documents previously unavailable to historians.
Having said that it is not at all bad and I will return to it I'm sure.
However in this case I am really interested in how the last 100 days panned out in terms of the major players on both sides.
This does tell some interesting stories and offers us an different perspective, especially around the atrocities of the invading Red Army.
At times here is almost a sympathetic slant put on the German regime which strikes me as a little odd.I'll come back to it because I suspect it will cover the interesting days at the very close of the war but it was somehow unengaging for me
I found parts of this book quite enjoyable and original, while (I admit it) I had to skip others.
It's a very, very interesting story, but not quite representative, and it just doesn't stick with the story-telling, for instance, of the western front politics.For some reason Toland also chooses to go on and on and on about the diplomatic processes, down to minute details of what secretary so-and-so had for dinner in Yalta, or even precisely how Roosevelt's wife spent her day when he died.
So, all in all, a very uneven book with lots of interesting parts, some boring ones, and a mediocre total.

John Toland's account of the final days of WWII in Europe is, simply put, outstanding!
As with his inimitable biography of Hitler, Toland's disinterested yet compelling narrative here is second to none.
What makes this achievement unique, however, is his use of perspectival approach which allows the reader to seamlessly move between, and be witness to, power brokers such as Hitler, Stalin, Churchill, and FDR, the military commanders, the plain soldiers, and finally, the civilians.
This is a tour de force of historical writing and a required reading for any aspiring sleuth of WWII.
This is a very long and detailed history that concentrates on the last 100 days of World War II in Europe. I listened to the audible.com version. Very well written. The author tells the story from all sides -- primarily, America, Britain, Russia and Germany. Diplomacy, communications, troop movements, major battles, the impact on civilian populations -- all are described in a chronological narrative; and it is a fair and balanced account. If you think you know all about these fourteen weeks, try this book. You may be surprised to learn how much more there is to the story.
