https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2146957.Grip_of_the_Shadow_Plague
Seth is stuck at Fablehaven, where he, his grandparents, Tanu, and Coulter must try to solve the mystery of a new plague that is transforming the magical creatures.
(Kendra can recharge magical artifacts, see in the dark, control fairies, glow very brightly, and talk to many magical creatures like Seth.) After coming back Kendra learns that Warren, Grandpa, Grandma, Dale, Tanu ,and Coulter are shadows.
Everyone needs to read this series! LOVED THIS ONE!
Brandon Mull developed the world of this awesome series so much more in this book.
I really love how the species were described, each with different characters traits.
The centaurs are proud and conceited.
The fairies crave attention, always check their looks and like to gossip.
The satyrs are playful and love girls (dryads).
The naiads disdain all the land-based creatures, but their favorite pastime is drowning humans.
One great thing in this book is how much more we got into character thoughts and feelings since they were often separated.
And I really liked Seth in this book.
Gavin is a great new character.5 stars.
How is it even possible for this storyline to get better with each new book, ( but yet it does )Simply Brilliant....Book 4, Here I Come!!!
grandma is kinda mean, anybody else notice that?
just what every fatasy book needs ,magical plague and dragons.
It took me two months to finish this book. The story is good, but the narrative is not intrigued.เนือเรืองเลมนีดีนะ แตการเลาเรืองขาดความนาสนใจไปหนอย เราใชเวลาเกือบสองเดือนกวาจะอานหนังสือเลมนีจบ คืออานๆหยุดๆหลายรอบ อานทีไรกเริมงวงทุกที เลยแกปัญหาเอามาอานเปนหนังสือกอนนอนแทนซะเลย วันไหนนอนไมหลับ หนังสือเลมนีชวยไดจริงๆ อานไมถึงสิบหานาทีตากจะปิดแลว หลับฝันดีตลอดคืนเลยละ ...เซธไมคอยนารำคาญเหมือนเลมแรก เคนดรากเริมเกงขึนเปนคนเคลียรปัญหาทุกอยางของเฟเบิลเฮเวน แตพอลองมองภาพรวมเนือเรืองมันไมกคอยจะเดินหนาไปไ
It took me two months to finish this book. The story is good, but the narrative is not intrigued.เนื้อเรื่องเล่มนี้ดีนะ แต่การเล่าเรื่องขาดความน่าสนใจไปหน่อย เราใช้เวลาเกือบสองเดือนกว่าจะอ่านหนังสือเล่มนี้จบ คืออ่านๆหยุดๆหลายรอบ อ่านทีไรก็เริ่มง่วงทุกที เลยแก้ปัญหาเอามาอ่านเป็นหนังสือก่อนนอนแทนซะเลย วันไหนนอนไม่หลับ หนังสือเล่มนี้ช่วยได้จริงๆ อ่านไม่ถึงสิบห้านาทีตาก็จะปิดแล้ว หลับฝันดีตลอดคืนเลยล่ะ ...เซธไม่ค่อยน่ารำคาญเหมือนเล่มแรก เคนดราก็เริ่มเก่งขึ้นเป็นคนเคลียร์ปัญหาทุกอย่างของเฟเบิลเฮเวน แต่พอลองมองภาพรวมเนื้อเรื่องมันไม่ก็ค่อยจะเดินหน้าไปไหนเลยอ่ะ ยังขลุกๆอยู่กับ artifacts อยู่เลย ช่วงแรกดูเฉื่อยๆไม่ค่อยมีอะไรให้ลุ้นเท่าไร มาสนุกเอาสองสามบทสุดท้ายแค่นั้นจริงๆ นี่เดาไว้เลยว่า Navarog ต้องเป็นตัวปัญหาในเล่มต่อไป แล้ว Zzyxx ก็จะออกมามีบทบาทในเล่มสุดท้าย โป๊ะเช๊ะ ! จบ 5 เล่มพอดี ...เป็นนิยายที่อ่านได้เพลินๆ ไม่ค่อยมีจุดที่อ่านแล้วไม่ชอบหรือขัดใจเท่าไร แต่โทนนิยายมันจะเรื่อยๆ ไม่ค่อยพีค ไม่ไคลแมกซ์อะไรมาก เหมาะกับเด็กอายุไม่เกิน 8-13 ขวบ ถ้าอ่านแล้วน่าจะสนุกมากๆ ...(view spoiler)[โรคระบาดที่เปลี่ยนให้สิ่งมีชีวิตทั้งหลายในเฟเบิลเฮเวนกลายเป็นความชั่วร้าย นั่นทำให้เซธรวมถึงคุณปู่และคุณย่าหาทางที่จะแก้ปรากฏการณ์เหล่านี้ ทางด้านเคนดร้าที่ถูกขอร้องให้เดินทางไปยัง Lost Mesa เพื่อตามหาวัตถุเวทมนตร์ก็พบว่ามันถูกนำกลับมายังเฟเบิลเฮเวนเรียบร้อยแล้ว ดังนั้นเธอจึงเดินทางกลับมาสมทบกับเซธและตามหาวัตถที่ว่านี่ที่ซ่อนอยู่ในบ้านหลังเก่าแก่ที่มีวิญญาณประหลาดสิงอยู่บนบ้านหลังนั้นนอกจากเซธจะพบกับวัตถุเวทมนตร์ที่ถูกซ่อนอยู่แล้วนั้น เขายังได้เจอกับแพตตันที่เดินทางข้ามกาลเวลามาด้วยวัตถุเวทมนตร์ แพตตันคือคนรักของเลนาที่อาศัยอยู่ในบ่อน้ำหลังจากเธอถูกเปลี่ยนคืนสู่สภาพเดิม แพตตันทำให้เลนาขึ้นมาพบกับเขาอีกครั้งได้และช่วยให้เคนดร้าได้ติดต่อกับราชินีแฟร์รี่เพื่อขอความช่วยเหลือเกี่ยวกับโรคระบาด เคนดร้าได้ทำรายรูปบูชาและได้รับก้อนหินที่มีพลังแห่งแสงอยู่ในนั้นเพื่อต่อสู้กับความมืดมิดที่กลืนกินเฟเบิลเฮเวนมากขึ้นเรื่อยๆต้นเหตุของปัญหาทั้งหมดคืออีไฟราที่ร่วมมือกับคิวริซอค หลังจากได้ครอบครองพลังของเล็บที่เซธถอนออกมาเมื่อไม่นานมานี้ เคนดรา เซธต้องร่วมกับสิ่งมีชีวิตในเฟเบิลเฮเวนที่ยังเหลืออยู๋เพื่อเอาชนะอีไฟรา สุดท้ายแล้วเลนาคือผู้สละชีวิตในการนำก้อนหินไปประกบกับเล็บบนไม้เพื่อขจัดภัยบัติครั้งนี้ได้สำเร็จในที่สุด... และความจริงก็ถูกเปิดเผยออกมาว่า สฟิงซ์คือคนทรยศและอยู่เบื้องหลังเหตุการณ์เลวร้ายทั้งหมดที่เกิดขึ้น (hide spoiler)]
I personally prefer the former for it is way more wicked.Grip of the Shadow Plague starts several weeks after the events of Rise of the Evening Star with Kendra being invited to join the Knights of Dawn, a secret society which function is to protect all the magical preserves across the globe.
The Shadow Plague is spreading fast and they must find a way to stop it before in consumes the entire magical preserve making Fablehaven just a part of history.Brandon Mull continues to impress me by writing the third book in this ever-imaginative series in dual narratives.
I like Mull's creativity and energy.
I appreciate his ongoing discussion of the nature of good and evil, the power of our choices, and in this one, the consequences of choosing to believe or not.
I liked the way this book expanded the characters and locations of the story.
:) I read this book first alone, but then I reread it aloud with my husband.
In reading aloud, we discovered an annoying flaw.
Mull's editor should pay better attention and help him refine his writing skills!However, the story is still fun, creative, exciting fantasy, so I recommend it.
I had reserved judgement on the Sphynx thinking there might have been some cool excuse for his behavior, but was a little disappointed to find the truth confirmed.
I hope we get more of an explanation in the next book as to why he chose the path he did.
Overall this was a very good read, and enjoyable from start to finish.
After all, if every book gets five stars, where's the room for improvement?
This was a good solid 4 stars, however, and, in my opinion good for readers at many levels.
When Lena jumped out of that pond, I was all like "SLAY ME" Then she died, and I was deceased.
Other characters died in this book, Tammy (irrelevant), and Neil (who??) but there deaths where insignificant compared to Lena.
And then Gavin entered this book, and I was hardcore shipping him and Kendra, but then, what about Warren, does he even matter, also I have my suspicions about both of them, but I don't know who I like more.
Also my book sense totally kicked in, and I suspected Javier when he was first introduced, and I was right!
Things like the Knights of Dawn and Patton Burgess got explained, and I filled my head with tons of new content.Not only that, but this book also has a dual POV at some point, as the siblings Sorenson get separated for two different adventures, something that excited me even more.
At some point, they collided together, and things turned so, so wild since then.The plot was quick, full of close-to-death situations, mystery and twists, and I absolutely adored every single part of it, even if it felt like a never ending journey because of the information.
I have fallen in love with this series.
When I first read Fablehaven two years ago, I remember liking but not loving it.
Both Kendra and Seth have developed a lot over the course of the series and it is nice to see this development.
This installment takes us to new locations as some of our characters leave Fablehaven to go on a mission to find another artifact.
We have dragons, time travel, darkness overtaking light, and still our characters manage to maintain hope.
I'm very excited to continue onto the next book in the series and hope that it continues this upward trend.
4.5 stars and probably my favorite of the series so far. Most of my comments about the previous book apply. I think my only real complaint would be wanting more emotional connection to secondary character but that too is coming along as the series progresses. The expanded worldbuilding is lovely in this one!
This one, the writer came to the forefront with a technique that felt "forced." With Kendra off on assignment (yeah, that's right, but I won't tell you why or where), Seth was left back at Fablehaven with a lot of problems facing that stronghold of magic.
As a result, the story alternates by chapter through a fair amount of the book between Kendra's problems and Seth's.
Rather than let time and nature guide the story, giving the book a life of its own, I felt the author was pushed into a writing regimen that didn't work particularly well.
God, it’s honestly the most well-written middle grade series I have ever laid my hands on!
We get a couple of new characters in this sequel too and I completely fell head of heels for one of them in particular…I also adore how this series isn’t afraid to get dark and gritty, despite the age of the target audience.
Mull never pulls his punches and I adore that he treats his MG audience to more mature content than other series.
I honestly recommend it to all MG fans and it’s one of those series that I just want to force on everyone and anyone that will let me.
So, fun stuff.Plot: Again, I felt like Brandon has gotten better at plotting.
I read through the book fairly quickly, and never felt like there was a lag in the story.Conflict: Lots of great conflict with the shadow plague happening, the dealing with Vanessa, the artifact at Lost Mesa, the society meeting, the suspicions about the Sphinx, and Seth's conflict with obedience.
I also like how Brandon shows the growth of Seth (that kid's actions sometimes make me want to scream - and then I realize that he is imaginary even though he acts like a lot of boys I know and have known).Text: Nothing unbelievably special here.
This is a book I will like more in the future as I think back on it than I do right now having just finished it.
Most of this was due to the splitting of the storyline with Kendra on a mission at Lost Mesa in Arizona while Seth stayed at Fablehaven and had adventures there.
And, even though it was a very small part of the adventures at Lost Mesa, I loved the jackalopes!
I’m already starting to like this book more now than I did while I was reading it!
Wow!
This series is on a roll.
I was on the waiting list for about 4 months for this one.
This is one of my favorite 3 or 4 young adult series.
It's right up there with Harry Potter, The Bartimaeus Trilogy, and...not much else up this high.
Maybe Gregor the Overlander...The characters are believable, there's always action but it is fresh each time, the plot twists and suspense are awesome, it's incredibly creative--I just love this series!
It started out as kids and family adventure in a small geographic location, but the action is intruding on their normal lives more and more and going more places.
This book 3 is seriously an adventure from the first page to the last. Seth really became a major player in this book. Hate him first and adore him now.And why is this Fablehaven series so perfect for me especially? I love how Brandon Mull adds more mysteries then expand answers to previously vague issues that mentioned in the previous two books then introduce interesting new characters and continuing to develop previous ones. Just Perfect!
بالاخره تمومش کردم! با اینکه بعضی جاهاش خسته کننده بود ولی در کل راضی بودم و به این سبک خیلی علاقه دارم.
This book is complete fantasy!!! I love itto death! If you like faeries, centaurs, or satyrs, you should definetly read!!!
خیلی دوست داشتنی بود.. لذت بردم از خوندنش
*4.5*
This is such a good book! It is so engaging. And honestly this is the book that really actually got me into the seiris. This is a have to read!
As they are trying to devise a plan to wipe out the plague that has overtaken most of Fablehaven, Kendra asks an interesting question.
As a result, compared to magical creatures, we humans are much more able to suppress our natural inclinations in order to deliberately choose our identities."This book in particular seems to focus a lot on Kendra and Seth choosing their identities.
Mull does a good job showing Seth's growth as he begins to understand that with courage is the responsibility to think through the choices he makes.
I am very interested to see how she and Seth develop further in the 4th book.
In Grip of the Shadow Plague a mysterious Plague of darkness.
The Plague spreads to most of the magical creatures of light.
There are many cool characters in Grip of the Shadow Plague.
In this novel you continue to learn about Seth and his evolving courage and also his risks that can be a good decisions.
From the first book to the last it is awesome.
Now i'm not finished with the whole series but i'm excited to finish.
I will give the book 5 stars each.
I really enjoy this series hope I can read more like it.
This book is amazing.The series is getting better and better with each book.I was already in love wi
And here, we have the apex of the Fablehaven Series.
With books that are the middle of the series, there is that change of tone and plot.
There is dark tones.
Subplots are done and the main arc is just around the corner.You can tell by the (new) covers, how much the story has and will change: darker colors, weapons that allude to war, but very simplistic.
Which is why I am gravitating more towards Middle Grade-Fantasy books.
This is a Goblet of Fire-esque book and I feel like the next book might have an Order of the Phoenix vibe, even if it is tone alone.
What did I think? I think that this book is AMAZING!Brandon Mull is a genius, I am so glad my friend recommended me this series! THIS SERIES SHOULD BE MORE POPULAR! IT SHOULD BE POPULAR LIKE  The Hunger Games and  Harry Potter AND ALL OF THE OTHER MILLION RATED BOOKS! I LOVE this book! This book is extraordinary! It is my new favorite series!  Fablehaven rules!
