https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1376301.Conference_At_Cold_Comfort_Farm
Can Flora Poste (now Mrs. Fairford and mother of five) set the farm to rights again?Reading this book is a little like meeting and old friend whose life has not quite met its early promise.
A lunch, a drink, a chance to catch up with old times is all quite pleasent, but can you help yourself wondering if you'd have chosen to be intimate with this shabbier version of your former friend?
And when you say good-bye, don't you feel a little relieved?Conference at Cold Comfort Farm doesn't really stand on its own, but it is enjoyable to find out what Stella Gibbons imagined happened to Flora and the Starkadders.
It was great to be back at Cold Comfort Farm with Robert Poste's Child. Not quite as hilarious as the first one, but I really appreciated the throwbacks, such as Adam Lambreath's little mop, and Feckless the cow's 3 legged great granddaughter. Stella Gibbons is so much fun.
A pesar de que encuentro otras novelas de Stella Gibbons entretenidas, no he acabado de verle la gracia a la hija de Robert Poste ni al sentido del humor que le da la escritora. Si la primera parte me pareció rara, esta ya directamente es prescindible.Me quedo con el libro de relatos que lleva el nombre de la granja y que es la única que me ha gustado.
Tepid writing evokes the forms of Flora and the farm without the spirit that had previously energized them, and the targets are not lamed with predictable ease as Mybug was in the previous novel, but positively manufactured as an obvious dream of the ultimately reactionary unconscious.
Having travestied her own achievements Gibbons presents instead an abbreviated and predictable plot, cardboard names that do not seem to even merit names, and insipid writing.Overall this book stands as a warning sign of a particularly vapid nadir for sequels everywhere, and, at its worst, casts a weak poison over the book which preceded it.
Don't read it unless you've read Cold Comfort Farm first, otherwise it will probably make absolutely no sense at all.
It's set about 15 years after CCF, with our heroine Flora returning to the farm (at the invitation of Mr Mybug who, along with members of the Managerial Revolutionary Party, has organised a conference of cutting-edge and largely odious poets, scientists and performance artists ) as she senses All Is Not Well.
And, as in the first, she proceeds to fix things.There are many funny things in it, but it all happens too quickly, without enough space or sense in between, to really be able to enjoy it.
Amusing, but not in the same league as Cold Comfort Farm, and much more dated.
Es una pena que aunque me gusta como escribe esta mujer, no me acaba de interesar ni lo que cuenta, ni sus personajes..
Flora, of course, can't resist the challenge, and heads for Sussex to spend a week organising a motley collection of artists, intellectuals and "Managerial Revolutionaries" (apparently this was a real political philosophy, even if Gibbons makes it seem so absurd it's hard to believe) and restoring the Starkadders to their proper place at Cold Comfort Farm at the same time.The sequel is undoubtedly not as good as the original, and despite featuring several of the same characters and having the same setting is really a very different book; apart from anything, the main target of Gibbons's ridicule here is not the rural novels of writers such as Mary Webb but modern artists and intellectuals.
Flora regresa a la Cold Comfort Fram para desfacer los entuertos que se han producido con el Congreso de Artistas.
The jokes from Cold Comfort Farm have become a bit stale in this sequel.
I love Cold Comfort Farm and wanted to love this sequel.
It's 17 years after Flora Poste has tidied up Cold Comfort Farm and now she's a mother of five and hasn't heard from the Starkadders in years.
No Starkadders at Cold Comfort Farm!?
She sets off to bring back the Starkadder men to Cold Comfort so that they can take over the farm again.
Love that Flora Poste.
I did love seeing Adam Lambsbreath again who still calls Flora "Robert Poste's child".
Basically, if you love Cold Comfort Farm, you'd better read this.
Flora Fairford (nee Poste) returns to Cold Comfort Farm, leaving the children to the care of her vicar husband and "the spiv" (a prescient glimpse of Community Service by the author?)to find things horrifically changed.
The farmouse itself, now a home to all things twee is a conference centre, and Flora is supposedly helping out at a gathering of the International Thinkers' Group (it is perhaps enough to say that delegates include the artists Hacke, Messe and Peccavi (plus the latter's girl friend who has a habit of appearing in a mink coat with nothing on underneath...).
Flora of course devotes her considerable energies to Putting Things Right,and restoring the Starkadders to Cold Comfort and even the watervoles to Ticklepenny's Well..Most enjoyable.
Y nuevamente nos encontramos con una sátira ingeniosa, en este caso a la sociedad de la época y al mundo del arte en concreto (algunos personajes son referencias a artistas de la época como Britten o D.H. Lawrence) y además va perfectamente unida a los inolvidables personajes del anterior libro: la mordaz y resolutiva Flora y los brutos y entrañables miembros de la familia Starkadder, todo resuelto con humor y momento estupendos (como el momento de la representación de la ópera y su delirante argumento).
Tanto este como el libro anterior que ya he comentado en otra ocasión.
Me ha parecido un tanto tedioso.
Very enjoyable, I chortled throughout!
I do wish that I were a little more familiar with the history/setting of this period.
Since so much of the conference attendees were written to spoof political movements, popular culture, and philosophy, I think I was missing a lot of the jokes due to my sad lack of knowledge.
And in satire, I'm afraid, the reader's enjoyment is based on how much they "get".
Luckily, I did "get" a good bit so my enjoyment was high.It was great to come across the wonderfully dreary Starkadders again.
I loved Grootebeest, Big Business, and the water voles!I wish they'd make a movie of this one as well.
Despite reading reviews prior to picking this one up, I just couldn't help myself and had to give it a read.
Gibbons revisits her character Flora Poste (now Fairchild) some 16 years later.
The farm is now government owned, and Mr Mybug is having a conference of intellectuals as it where, at the bread and breakfast type residence Cold Comfort Farm is now.
Ruben, Urk, and Adam are really the only main characters outside of Flora that remain, and regrettably this novel lacked the same amount of energy Gibbons had in "Cold Comfort Farm." I know Gibbons was capable of a much better send off, and found his disappointing.
Poste que tantas sonrisas me provoco en su primer libro pero he de decir que no ha resultado tan bien como esperaba esta lectura.
creo que si la historia se hubiera mantenido solo en esta linea me hubiera gustado mas pero lo del congreso de artistas, intelectuales, cientificos y demas fauna me resulto a veces pesada y me dejo fria, a lo mejor porque no me resultaban muy familiares los personajes en los que la escritora destilaba su ironia.
En fin, no claudico y regresare al tercer libro de la saga porque creo que estara mucho mejor!.
I love the first book in this series (Cold Comfort Farm) although its been a while since I last re-read it. I was worried that this might not be as good, but I think it is. The target of Stella Gibbon's humour has changed in this book, but the quality hasn't. This definitely needs to be read after Cold Comfort Farm though. You'll miss some of the humour if you don't know what went on before and some parts of it might not make sense at all.
Not as enjoyable as the first book (set 17 years earlier), but still an interesting look at England in 1949. And it was fun to see what happened to some of the characters. Some of the dialect gave me pause. For example:"Ay, 'twere. It did shut un up, tu. Our Ticklepenny's, look ee, be so goathling an' crow-picken, even th' Ministry won't trouble wi' un. An' Parker-Poke he did go back to Lunnon, brast un fer a bowler-hatten scowkerd!"
It is a bit of a toss off, i bet she wrote it in a short time but it is nonetheless enjoyable and still has that modern quality. I can't get over how prescient she is, this story could have taken place today. she bursts the pomposity of art and intellectual world with her no nonsense main character. I laughed out loud. Good one.
I found reading this book ok but because I loved Cold Comfort Farm so much I think I was always going to be a bit disappointed with this book. I'm not that sure why I did not enjoy this as much but I think perhaps it could be down to the old characters not being in it as much. If you have read Cold Comfort Farm I think it is still worth a read but to me it was a bit of a let down.
I got about halfway through this book and had to quit. So disappointing - characters from the original Cold Comfort Farm but the feeling wasn't the same at all. I guess you can't go home again - home to the Starkadders, anyway. One wonders why it was even attempted - the first book was a perfect gem by itself.
I read the first 50 pages, it started out promisingly but it started to wane after the first 30-40 pages. I know it's considered a "classic" and has been turned into movie format but this may be one of those books where the movie is better than the book itself. Odd thing for a librarian to say....
Not nearly as good as the original, because of a lack of a cohesive positive philosophy. It was occasionally funny though and as a bonus- in contrast to her non-Cold Comfort books- no horrifying racism! She does talk flippantly about "Jews" at one point (pretty heartless in 1949 if you ask me) but that's as bad as it gets.
I loved Cold Comfort Farm so much and couldn't believe I finally had this one in my hands. It was a little bit of a disappointment, though. While the satire in Cold Comfort Farm is very timeless, this one seems a bit dated with its remarks about wannabe artists/thinkers and wannabe artsy people. But I still loved to go back to Cold Comfort Farm and many passages were very charming and clever.
Not as deliciously iconic as the original COLD COMFORT FARM, but pleasing to fans of the first book. It is fun to drop in on the life of all these people (Elfine, now married for ten years!) and see how they have disintegrated and/or improved. But because it is a sequel to a beloved work, Gibbons obviously did not feel able to make major renovations to the setup.
La secuela de La hija de Robert Poste no llega a la altura de su predecesora pero se deja leer. Los mejores momentos son aquellos en los que la acción se centra en los Starkadder, dejando de lado a los "artistas."
While not as good as the original "Cold Comfort Farm" (what could be?) this is nevertheless a wonderful read. It was hugely enjoyable to be back in the mad world of Howling at a conference of Modern Thought organised by Mr Mybug.
The big problem with this book is the absence of so many of the characters that made the first book Cold Comfort Farm so delicious - Aunt Ada Doom, Seth. There as a lot of Mr Mybug but he couldnt make up for the missing Starkadders. Very easy read though.
hilarious. again, just walking past the table at the library -- this time they had the classics out. I love early C20th books and this one was hilarious. I wish i knew the rural pulp fiction she modelled it on, but all the same a great story and very funny writing.
