https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/309382.The_Spanish_Civil_War
The only one-volume history of war that I can compare Mr. Thomas's book to is Neil Sheehan's  A Bright Shining Lie: John Paul Vann and American in Vietnam.
The story, in fact, is much more heterogeneous, since Thomas is interested in bringing the quantitative specifics of the war into the English language: planes, artillery, personnel, Italian, German and Russian contributions, etc.
I think the saddest part of Thomas's book is the story it tells of the murderous dissension among the anarchists, communists, non-Stalinist Marxists (POUM) and socialists of the Republic.
299 "The Spanish Anarchists".There is liitle on the popular revolution which ocurred in Spain duing the war, a glaring ideologically based omission.Chomsky, "Objectivity and Liberal Scholarship" : "obviously the historian's account must be selective; from the left liberal point of view (like Hugh Thomas and Gabriel Jackson) the liquidation of the revolution in Catalonia was a minor event, as the revolution itself was merely kind of irrelevant nuisance, a minor irritant diverting energy fom the struggle to save the bourgeois government...Thomas' extensive study barely refers to the popular revolution, and some of the major events are not mentioned at all."How can so much work be done and such honours bestowed on such a 'major work', with such glaring omissions?
An honest study of the Spanish Civil War MUST be accompanied by histories such as The Spanish Anarchists (Murray Bookchin), Homage to Catalonia (George Orwell) and On Anarchism (Noam Chomsky).
Countless individual citizens of other countries flocked to Spain, mostly on the Republican side, forming International Brigades that played a substantial if ultimately unsuccessful role in the fighting.Thomas is exhaustive in his presentation of the details and leaders (both civilian and military) on both sides of the war, and the reader needs a very clear head to keep them all straight.
Thomas has helpfully clarified events subsequent to the war and includes a couple of final chapters summarizing the causes, events, and consequences of the struggle.This book is clear and inclusive, a solid and satisfying account of the Spanish Civil War. Not every detail of such a conflict can of course be included, even when alluded to.
Ultimately, I visited Spain three times: once with Linda, once alone and once with my brother Fin.Prior to the first visit I decided to read up on modern Spanish history and, scanning the bookshelves, came upon Thomas' The Spanish Civil War. It was an ideal choice as it covers much more than the war itself, going way back in explaining the political, cultural and class divisions of the country which led to the conflict.
Andalusia appeared to be pretty political, judging by the stickers and painted slogans (mostly left wing in those parts) all over the place, but the best conversation I had about the civil war was with an older taxi driver.
The story of this civil war, as told by Hugh Thomas, amazed me. Full of drama, courage and atrocity, idealism and deceit. It constantly surprises me how human societies can suddenly collapse, tearing themselves apart, and so easily resort to killing others whose beliefs differ. Is there a parallel to the current civil war in Syria? Where a rebel side seeks to overthrow a government which has lost touch with its people, but external volunteers enter to distort the picture. I knew little of the Spanish Civil War before this book, but it really has informed me well.
Of the three histories of the Spanish Civil War I've read, Thomas's is the most comprehensive and balanced. He seems not to have an ideological axe to grind, which is impressive considering this war was inherently ideological. He focuses on the social and political causes of the war, the diplomatic and international consequences of it, and the military maneuvers that eventually led to Franco's victory. If you read one history of the Spanish Civil War, you wouldn't be wrong to choose this one.
We tend to think of the Spanish Civil War of 1936-1939 merely as a run-up to the Second World War. It was that, as the Germans and Italians not only supplied the Fascists, but fought side by side with them.
In his The Spanish Civil War, author Hugh Thomas estimates the total war dead at 600,000.
-Su edición supuso muchísimas cosas.-Género. Historia.Lo que nos cuenta. El libro La Guerra Civil Española (publicación original: The Spanish Civil War, 1961) es un acercamiento al conflicto en España en 1936 que retrocede en el tiempo para analizar situaciones previas y que se extiende un poco más de su final para plantear ciertas consecuencias.¡Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers? Visite:http://librosdeolethros.blogspot.com/...
Reading again Hugh Thomas’s gripping history, I was more moved than I expected to be by the great tragedy which befell Spain in the late 30s and which the liberal democracies allowed to happen by their fear of provoking fascist Italy and Germany.Putting ones country first whatever the circumstances is a peculiar thing to do.
Seventy years is a long time and the right all over Europe still hopes that the rest of us will forget.The International Brigades are rightly famous and this month Spain will give the elderly survivors Spanish passports.
The Spanish Civil War is often read as a backdrop for the much larger Second World War and this is a solid approach to this regional conflict, but the conflict itself has had a much larger historical and cultural impact on the world of today than many readers may believe.
Hugh Thomas's The Spanish Civil War, 50th Anniversary edition, remains the best, if exhaustive [1,116 pages -- Kindle Edition], single-volume history of the war.
The reading experience is smooth; the research impeccable; the detail stunning; the historical insight subtle.
For readers looking to read only one book on this conflict, this would be the book to read.
Hugh Thomas account of the Spanish Civil War is the most thorough version of the events written to date.
The Spanish Civil War is one of the most devastating conflicts of the 20th century.
The democracies of the world worked hard to try and effect a peace but they were unsuccessful against the determination of the fascists and the communists to prolong the conflict.
This is a complicated conflict to understand but Hugh Thomas tries to simplify it as much as he can.
This is the best start to understanding the Spanish Civil War and for those who want to understand how World War II began.
کلاس ۵ ابتدایی بودم که این کتاب رو خوندم(خیلی تصادفی تو کتابخونهٔ داییم دیدم)و از همون موقع عشق تاریخ جنگ داخلی اسپانیا شدم؛)
کلاس ۵ ابتدایی بودم که این کتاب رو خوندم(خیلی‌ تصادفی تو کتابخونهٔ داییم دیدم)و از همون موقع عشق تاریخ جنگ داخلی‌ اسپانیا شدم؛)
For decades, Hugh Thomas's The Spanish Civil War (first written in 1961 and periodically expanded and updated until Thomas's death) has been the standard English-language history of that cataclysmic conflict.
To a relative novice like me, the main thing standing out in Thomas's account is the utter brutality of both sides, with civilians regularly massacred, raped and otherwise mistreated in savage ways more expected from feud turf wars than a modern, "civilized" nation.
Thomas is less perceptive addressing Spain's internal politics, with a simplified view of the different Leftist factions backing the Republicans, reducing key events like the liquidation of the Trotskyist POUM to a footnote, and occasionally lapsing into Cold War sloganeering about the Communist-progressive alliance.
Wow. I had no idea. I thought I knew something about the Spanish Civil War, but I knew nothing. It was fascinating, the story of the anarchist left captured the government through democratic elections, and how the government's attempted adherence to the ideology was such a devastating handicap in the war against the falangists. the conflicted sentiments on the part of the UK and the US over which side they should support, if either, reminds me of the current situation the US faces in the conflict in Syria and Iraq. A must read.
This is a great book which I feel has now been superseded by Antony Beevor's excellent history of the Spanish War. If you are uncomfortable allowing Antony Beevor, who is often accused of being right wing, to form your views on Spain, then read this work by Thomas.I read both thirty years apart and found both worthwhile.
Le classique toujours incontournable.
I picked up this book after reading , by Jonathan Rabb which was set in the Spanish Civil War. My curiosity piqued, and as the subject is one of the many never mentioned in U.S. schools, I decided to learn something about it.
My knowledge was pretty much limited to: comments my mother made about collecting trading cards during the 1930s with gruesome pictures from the Spanish Civil War; that Franco and the Nationalists beat the Republicans; and there were lots of communists running around somewhere.Let me tell you, this is one detailed, well-researched volume.
An excellent reference book that helps explains what really happened in this civil war.
The civil war was a lot more complicated than a the simplistic view that a right wing military coup overthrew an elected government.
This elected government was to begin with extremely tough on the left wing factions with a viscous crushing of a miners rebellion in Asturias.
It then had to contend with real revolutionary impulses from the communist and anarchist movements and the whole country was in crisis.
The Franco revolt was initially positioned as a means to restore order but it provoked mini revolutions around the country.
This is my first book on the Spanish Civil War. Mr.
I did find the first 20% or so of the book to be a bit tedious, as it predates the actual conflict.
While I do believe such coverage is necessary to provide the necessary background for why certain events occurred, I felt the book went too far.The book seems to cover the entire conflict in considerable detail, especially the political goings on.
It also covers the social, religious aspects as well as the military campaigns.It is a bit surprising that the book has no photographs at all and most of the maps tend to be crude.
Nonetheless, I am satisfied with having read the book.
Klassík. Þessi saga er víðtæk og gerir bæði pólitísku og hernaðarlegu landslagi Spánarstríðsins góð skil. Blóðugar hreinsanir á báða bóga og hve ólíka afstöðu stórveldin tóku til aðstoðar við andstæðar fylkingar. Franco var peningalaus en fékk gríðarlega aðstoð gegn lánum en lýðveldið var vellauðugt en var neitað um minnstu hernaðarkaup nema frá Sovétríkjunum sem nýttu sér neyð þeirra út í ystu æsar. Heilsteypt umfjöllun sem staðist hefur tímans tönn.
Uiterst interessant maar te compleet boek over de Spaanse Burgeroorlog. Te veel details deden mij bijna de draad verliezen. Het is meer een objectief feitenrelaas dan een een verhaal. Heb er mij moeten doorworstelen maar ben blij dat ik mijn kennis over dit gure onderwerp heb kunnen bijspijkeren. Misschien dringt zich ooit nog eens een tweede lezing op, indien ik er nog de moed toe vind.
¡Imprescindible!
Long, detalied, and fairly balanced although Thomas broadly seems to have liberal sympathies.
The authority on the subject without a doubt.
Very thorough. Thomas remains mostly neutral and gives a good account of the politics leading up to and during the war. He gives plenty of detail on the Britain's response to the war.
It's an interesting if a bit old fashioned book on the subject. It could have used a more global view of things.It's a great overview of a undertaught subject
Probably best to read this if you already have a good knowledge of the Spanish civil war and are deeply interested in reading further. Rather hard going, scholarly but not terribly readable.
Briefly, there were two sides, the Republic and the Fascists led by Francisco Franco.
This book is primarily about the war, the correspondents who covered it, and the English and American volunteers who fought in it.
The war correspondents were the best writers in the world led by Ernest Hemingway.
Eric Blair, who would become famous as George Orwell, fought for the Republic and later based his writing on his experiences.
And how the Texaco CEO used his network of offices to alert the Fascists when the Republic, a freely elected government, would be receiving shipments so the Italian or German navies could sink them.
Though I would recommend this book to anyone interested in the subject matter, it was a little too deep for an intro (I made the same mistake with Slim's Defeat Into Victory on the Burma Campaign), it was very compelling and the myriad cast of characters made it a little difficult to follow but I can see why someone like Largo Caballero or Juan Antonio Rivera would have a wider impact after they disappeared from the scene.
I took this book as both a narrative and an analysis but it tends to get bogged down with the minutia as well as too much footnotes that tend to have a story within a story effect and made finishing the book an almost dutiful affair rather than a delightful one.
While difficult to keep track of the various politicians, activists, commanders and generals that make appearances throughout, Thomas nevertheless projects a intensely dramatic account of this wrenching and defining 20th century moment.
Certain figures and moments will be vividly lodged in my head forever, as described by Thomas - among them the heroic defense of Madrid, Gen. Queipo de Llano's propaganda broadcasts, the snowbound battle for Teruel, and La Pasionaria's emotional farewell address to the International Brigades in the Republic's twilight.
Thomas' narrative is surprisingly balanced, appropriately conveying tragedy and atrocity on both sides of the conflict.
