https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/113436.Eragon
This is definitely not worth anyone's time, unless you want to amuse yourself by noting how many similarities there are between the trilogies.Addendum: WOW!
Addendum 2: If you, like so many others in the comments, find fault with my apparent ignorance and wish to correct me regarding the fact that this series is not a trilogy, please see comment #53.
Do you know how many people have commented on the fact that this isn't a trilogy since I added Addendum 2 SPECIFICALLY addressing that?
It teaches us that people don't read.
I could read this one a hundred times and love it just the same. This was  my  middle school book series. I read it over and over and over (and, as you may have guessed, over and over...). It had dragons! And elves and magic and swordplay and not a love triangle in sight.Even rereading it as an adult, I just...cannot separate all those happy memories So keep in mind, my review might be is more than a bit biased. Eragon, a farm boy, stumbles upon a suspicious blue stone while hunting in the Spi
Eragon, a farm boy, stumbles upon a suspicious blue stone while hunting in the Spine (an area that few would go to even in the best of times).
Begrudgingly, Eragon takes it home only to discover, a few short days later, that the stone is not a stone...it is an egg.
Rereading this as an adult, there are a few things I picked up this time around - like how Eragon is always just strong enough to vanquish his enemies, how he is always in the right place at the right time, how he's able to pick up swordplay and magic at an unbelievable speed...
In particular, Saphira's voice was absolutely, hands-down, the worst voice ever bestowed upon a dragon.
Standard fantasy fare, except that while most fantasy authors lift their plots only vaguely from a previous author, Eragon is simply the plot of Star Wars with a Lord of the Rings paintjob:Princess flees, trying to keep precious item out of the evil emperor's hands.
Paolini also resembles other fantasy authors by denying that he is a fantasy author, instead imagining that he is a great literary talent.
Many modern fantasy authors do the opposite: they write redundant escapist yarns and then get upset that no one considers them to be literary greats, yet.There is nothing new or interesting here for anyone who has read fantasy before--it's just a rehash of old cliches.
I know this, because that quote is the first sentence of the book, and what the author means is "Wind howled through the night, carrying a scent giving warning of the coming of persons who would set in motion events that would change the world." I know, it lacks a certain something.Better the eighty percent of the pit of voles, but still, undeserving of being published.I do not blame Paolini for writing a bad book.
Obstacles like hiding a dragon from those living in your house are hand waved away in two paragraphs.
Here is a short list of things I find more enjoyable than reading Eragon:Why does this book read like it was written by a fantasy-obsessed 15-year-old?
It's like Paolini actually, in all seriousness, used Diana Wynne Jones' humorous The Tough Guide to Fantasyland as a real technical manual on how to create the Eragon universe.
The only way to actually enjoy Eragon is if you have never encountered a single fantasy-related story in your life (and that includes "Star Wars", by the way).
I LOVE the Inheritance books.
The story begins with a young farm boy, named Eragon, from a small village.
While hunting in the wilderness in search of food for their family, Eragon comes across a rare stone (which is later revealed to be a dragon egg).
He takes it home with him and to his suprise the egg hatches and out comes Saphira.
A very good book to cuddle up with on a cool fall day or during the winter when you need a good adventure to bring you out of being stuck in your house.
Something like, "Two feet away stood three troops of fifty, in rows of five, making ten people per row" is a sentence uncannily close to one I read in the actual book itself.
Probably because he's the only one who changes at all as a character throughout the book, other than the occasional insight into Eragon's personal airplane--I mean, pet dragon--I mean, companion, Saphira.
Even her characterization is sacrificed because she's used as a plot device by Paolini rather than fleshed out as an actual character.
With regards to the language he "created"?
Before we get started -Please,please do not judge a book by its movie.-I read Eragon for the first time when I was 15 years old.I've re-read it 5 times since (I didn't own many books back then so after I took advantage of my neighbor's and my cousin's library,I kept re-reading my poor collection) and every time I loved it just the same,because it was the book that introduced me to the world of fantasy. The story When I got this beauty in my hands,I thought that Eragon was the dragon (laugh all
When I got this beauty in my hands,I thought that Eragon was the dragon (laugh all you want,I deserve it).But it turns out Eragon is the teenage boy who finds the dragon named Saphira and together they are the only ones who can fight the powerful and corrupted tyrant Galbatorix.With an old storyteller as his mentor,Eragon travels in Alagaesia,finds dwarves and elves and rebels and embraces his heritage and his responsibility as the last Dragonrider,the protector of the weak and the only hope of an oppressed people.
seriously, Ben. Why have you not read this sooner. This beast has been sat on your TBR pile for years. What is wrong with you? Was little Ben intimidated by the size? I FINALLY READ THIS BOOKand breathI honestly think this is one of the best fantasy YA stories. Such a classic! ERAGON YOU ARE MIGHTY FINEEEEEEE
This was straight up painful...Full review to come!
Age of the readers and how well acquainted they are with the high fantasy genre seriously need to be considered here.I don’t think I need to say a lot on my review on this, Eragon is a very popular book and it’s been quite mixed received, to say the least.
If you were still a child or teenager, and haven’t read a lot or any high fantasy books yet, you’ll probably love this.
In the future, Eragon could be a book that I’ll consider giving to my kids to spark their love for reading.You can find this and the rest of my Adult Epic/High Fantasy & Sci-Fi reviews at BookNest
appalling.as if written by an enthusiastic but tragically over-encouraged teenager with insufferably supportive parents who somehow happen to be well-connected in the publishing indus—wait....oh.carry on, then.
I believe that if this book had meandered its way to publishing houses the usual way, it would have been rejected as unpublishable, for reasons I will discuss in depth here.Christopher Paolini himself, in his own words, describes his story thus: "Eragon is an archetypal hero story, filled with exciting action, dangerous villains, and fantastic locations.
There are dragons and elves, sword fights and unexpected revelations, and of course, a beautiful maiden who's more than capable of taking care of herself."I would argue that this book is not an "archetypal hero story" so much as an overused and overly traditional Tolkienien "epic," with "epic" in quotes because it lacks exactly that epic nature that made the world of Lord of the Rings so rich.
The writing is a bit clunky at times, but then I remember that the author was only a teenager when he wrote this and everything becomes straight up impressive.Yes, there are obvious Tolkien influences (Aragorn Eragon, Arwen Arya the elf, the urgal/uruk similarities, and a lot of other names)...
but I kind of like it when authors can create entirely new worlds that are inspired by material I already love.
Besides, this book is waaaaay more than just LOTR with dragons.
I don't even know what that narrator was doing...PS: the movie totally butchered this book and I am still disappointed.
Dragons and elves and dragons!A lot of people faulted Paolini for trying to copy Tolkien, but the truth is, their styles are nothing alike.
Tolkien is much more poetic and his writing more archaic.
Paolini is a much more straightforward fantasy guy.
And that is not a bad thing.
I really enjoyed this book and the series overall ranks as one of my all time favorites!
Because it is so well written!
well, except for the Prologue of this book.
It is like that is written by another person (or by Paolini while he was 10 years old).
Christopher Paolini's book charmed and drew me in with wonderful world building, interesting adventures in the world of elves, dwarves and other mythical creatures.
The amazing thing is that the author started writing this book when he was a teen, 15 years old and his skill shows a lot as he managed to lure me into world of "Aragon" , charming with magic, action, creepy baddies, wonderful goodies, monsters, dragons and way more.
The journey to the magical and mystical world of "Eragon" began, it's full of adventures, toils and wonder, so call your dragon and lets explore this world together :)
I also wrote a book when I was 16 (much like Paolini) and the quality was pretty much the same as  Eragon, that is to say, awful.
Eragon (the character) is a total Mary Sue/Gary Stu: he learns to fight with a sword in just a few weeks, his past is angsty, he's the first dragon rider for centuries, etc etc.
Everyone loves Eragon, and those who don't are evil or will repent their ways (see the elf-dude that he fights in  Eldest.
Eragon (The Inheritance Cycle #1), Christopher PaoliniEragon is the first book in the Inheritance Cycle by Christopher Paolini.
His parents saw the final manuscript and in 2001 decided to self-publish Eragon; Paolini spent a year traveling around the United States promoting the novel.
The book tells the story of a farm boy named Eragon, who finds a mysterious stone in the mountains.
A dragon he later names Saphira hatches from the stone, which was really an egg.
Eragon and Saphira are forced to flee from their hometown, with a storyteller called Brom, and decide to search for the Varden, a group of rebels who want the downfall of Galbatorix.
تخم است.
Many years have gone by since I read this as a young teenager/old child.
Anyway, I doubt I would like City of Bones if I would reread it now, nearly 10 years after I read it for the first time.
I do think that some of this immaturity stems from the way Paolini wrote them, though.
The fantasy world Paolini created invites this language and behaviour.
I'm glad I finally found the time for this book and will probably start reading book 2 right away.Find more of my books on Instagram
After being told by a cousin of mine that the book was next to nothing like the movie, I tried it out and fortunately found the statement to be fair.While not the most original story (seriously, there are too many Star Wars + Lord of the Rings moments to count), I have to give the author credit for plodding onward into his bloated first novel.
It just seemed completely incongruous and anachronistic.I give it 3 stars only because it was written by a 15 year old.
If a thirty year old had written this, it would receive 2.
His parents saw the final manuscript and in 2001 decided to self-publish Eragon; Paolini spent a year traveling around the United States promoting the novel.
The book tells the story of a farm boy named Eragon, who finds a mysterious stone in the mountains.
A dragon he later names Saphira hatches from the stone, which was really an egg.
Eragon and Saphira are forced to flee from their hometown, with a storyteller called Brom, and decide to search for the Varden, a group of rebels who want the downfall of Galbatorix.
تخم است.
Holy guacamole.A great read.Definitely try it. :)
I've been dying to reread this one for a while, but I was looking at its GR entry and noticed it's listed as YA fantasy. I've always considered it MG, possibly because I first read it when it was released, which was when I was 10 years old or so. Am I remembering wrong, maybe, since it's been so long?Anyways, I'm putting it to a vote: do you consider Eragon MG or YA? What about the other books in The Inheritance Cycle?
And yet imitation is arguably (according to Aristotle, Cicero, and numerous other authorities) the most effective rhetorical device for learning your licks as a writer.” -	William Cane in Fiction Writing: Master ClassI first want to say that everyone is entitled to what they believe and think about a certain piece of art (yes, books are considered art in my eyes).
Tolkien and his trilogy “Lord of the Rings.” So obviously the book is going to have some sort of Middle Earth feel to it because that is what he likes.
He has similar species (elves and dwarves) but a lot of stories have those.
i learned that this book kicks butt i mean common ppl you see this explosion in a forest gather up the guts to go see what it was and its a hue piece of saphire (or is it?) well then eragon goes around trying to sell it because his family is poor but know one wants it because it came out of the spine!
(for those that dont know what te spine is its a collection of mountians only the brave go in but only the lucky come out) i seen the movie and i literally wanted to send a P.O. email to him i swear he didnt get one thing right.
Unfortunately, that's the best quality it possesses.This idea has been overworked many times before, and, if I may borrow a baking metaphor, overworked dough makes for flat product.
The book takes information from mouths others, throws it together into a conglomerate mess, tries to serve it with a different label on an old beverage and expects the reader to eat this previously chewed, bland, ill-matched blob of scraps.On top of the clearly traceable sources for ideas (almost all of which come from this century), his characterization is static and mary-sue.
Now… all that potential just went down the toilet because I listen to and I read his interviews and his arrogance is sickening.
How many starving authours out there dream of being found, of not having to submit to one publisher after another, and of not having to read their rejection letters?
I do respect him for buckling down and finishing his story — from writing to revising to editing — because I know from first-hand experience how hard it is… but… this shouldn’t have been published.
Why do I care about that spot of dust (and much more, random stuff) in the stupid dungeon?!Now, I'm green with envy that Paolini wrote this at such a young age, and published it pretty early too, but jealously and admiration are two different things.
Maybe I'll go copy Harry Potter and Twilight, too, and turn it into story about a bunch of teens going to Hogforks (a mix of Hogwarts and Forks) to train to become the best vampires so that they can kill this evil vampire beast called Goldemort, and I'll get critical acclaim and win all these awards too!
One of my former roommates is addicted to Young Adult fantasy books, and got me hooked right along with her.
She had read the first two books in this series right when they first came out, and urged me to read them before seeing the movie (which, I later found out, was awful).
Despite the criticism that Paolini's books get, I found I really, really enjoyed Eragon.
He pulls a Tolkien and creates his own world, complete with different races, cultures, and languages, which is no easy task.
I wanted to read  Eldest immediately after I finished Eragon -- I'm definitely hooked into the series now.
Christopher wrote this book when he was fifteen years old. He did very well.I love the relationship between Eragon and Saphira. I could see there are true affections between the boy and dragon.I have seen 'Eragon' film long time ago, I can't remember what all of the casts look like but I can remember a bit what happened. The movie of 'Eragon' and the book are very differences. I love the book! I really didn't like a film. It is pointless! Alhamdulillah.
