https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/220968.One_Shot
But it might be nice for a couple of weeks to: be able to kick ass as effectively as he does, to never be wrong, to be able, correctly, to second guess all the villains’ moves and then to ride off into the sunset with a clear conscience and no dangling strings!
But in common with all of its predecessors, and despite the implausibility of the plot, One Shot doesn’t last a few days let alone a few weeks, it’s a real page-turner.
4.5/5 “You going to shoot me?” Reacher asked.“Maybe.”“You should.”“Why?”“Because if you don’t, I’m going to find you and I’m going to make you sorry.” Lee Child never ceases to amaze me with the depth and cleverness of his writing. This is the ninth installment of Jack Reacher series and it still gave me a lot of thrills and chills, as same as the previous ones did. How on earth can he come up with such engaging and riveting plot? Every twist and turn literally blew me away. It’s no wonder this
“You going to shoot me?” Reacher asked.“Maybe.”“You should.”“Why?”“Because if you don’t, I’m going to find you and I’m going to make you sorry.”
The accused man denied the charges and asked for Jack Reacher.
And he would never stop until he could ultimately bring justice to those innocent victims of this vicious man.One of the things about this book that impressed me greatly was that all the dialogue kept the story moving along at a cracking pace.
Reacher took “one-man army” to a whole new level!
This scene had me on the edge of my seat throughout, I can tell.Read this book, people!
The book title is based on "One shot, one kill," the military sniper's creed.
«یک شلیک» نهمین کتاب از مجموعه ‌ی جک ریچر و به قلم نویسنده ‌ی بریتانیایی، لی چایلد است که در سال 2005 میلادی منتشر شد، در سال 2012 میلادی فیلمی بر اساس آن و با بازی تام کروز ساخته شد و با فروشی 218 میلیون دلاری، ساخت فیلم‌های بعدی بر اساس همین مجموعه را تضمین کردلی چایلد تا کنون بیست عنوان از مجموعه «جک ریچر» را به رشته تحریر درآورده، و یازده کتاب اول این مجموعه به عنوانهای: قتلگاه؛ تا پای مرگ؛ قلاب؛ آخرین مهمان؛ اکو در آتش؛ سوء قصد؛ وسوسهٔ انتقام؛ دشمن؛ یک شلیک؛ راه سخت؛ و بدشانسی و دردسر با ترجمه: محمد عباس‌آبادی، توسط کتاب‌سرای تندیس در ایران به چاپ رسیده است.
Then he says, "Get Reacher." The cops have no idea who Reacher is, but you and I should know, because, if we are reading in order this is # 9 in the series.
Because, the sniper committed the same type of crime during the Persian Gulf War and got away with it-- under Reacher's watch.
Now Reacher wants nothing more than to assist with the prosecution of this man.
This is one of the best of the series I have read and kept me up late to finish.
Good mystery-crime novel with lots of fast-paced action and even a bit of romance. If you are a Jack Reacher fan, I'm sure you will enjoy this entertaining book.As for the movie, it's kind of hard to imagine Tom Cruise as the big and tall Jack Reacher, but I still might give it a try.
Number 9 in the Jack Reacher Series.5/5 because this was great.This story starts out of the blocks on page one and just keeps going.There is what appears to be and random act of violence.
The man accused has done this before whilst still in the army in Kuwait.
Why would the assassin want to see Reacher when he knows that Reacher would kill him, given half a chance.Reacher wants answers but the assassin has been badly beaten whilst in gaol and is now in a coma.The more questions Reacher asks the more convinced he becomes that something is very wrong.
I'm going to add the same review for all of the Reacher series, so if you've read this one, you've read 'em all.
Jack seems to implicitly understand that he is a unique animal/human running around on this planet and that in spite of social conventions, cultural trappings, and whatever conventions and abstractions we allow into our mind in order to alleviate this core fact of our singularity (and aloneness)...the truth of it is not something Mr. Reacher denies.He embraces it.
Understands his philosophy implicitly, revels in his physical being,his conventions and values.
This is the first Jack Reacher book I've read, and I picked it up because of the upcoming movie.
I have to say my only problem with it is that now I'm going to have to read all of Lee Child's books, and I already have a queue of over 140 "to read".It's a really great thriller.
He's trailed throughout the book and only once picks it up.
If all the books are this good, I'm sure I'll have no problem making my way through this series.
Despite owning every single Jack Reacher novel in paperback (and it’s such a beautiful looking collection) it’s shockingly been nearly a year since I read The Enemy, so I couldn’t wait to continue with the series.
That said I’m not even sure I’ll ever watch it but I am intrigued, Tom Cruise as Reacher is like Mr. Bean playing Harry Bosch and I feel like watching the film would make me imagine Cruise more reading these novels and that’s not something I want.
I love these books and I just can’t wait to read them all.
Watching the movie was my first exposure to author Lee Child's work.
But he played Jack Reacher like he really was 6 foot 5 inches and 250 pounds.
I picked up Child's first novel in the series "Killing Floor" after reading a short he'd written on the young Reacher back in his military base-hopping days.
And I'd be out of more Jack Reacher novels if I read them all.
I took in a Reacher novel here and there and finally found a dog-eared copy of "One Shot" at the great Book Barn near my home in Clovis, Calif.
4  stars. You need to suspend disbelief, but it’s still a fun, tough guy story.STORY BRIEF:A sniper kills five people leaving a downtown office building. Several pieces of evidence point to James Barr a former army sniper. James says “You’ve got the wrong guy. Get Reacher for me.” Coincidentally Reacher comes to town for his own reasons. Reacher saw the story in the news. He knew Barr when they were in the army together fourteen years ago. Some bad guys don’t like Reacher being in town and try t
Some bad guys don’t like Reacher being in town and try to harm him.
Of course that’s the worst thing they could do since now Reacher won’t leave until he finds them.REVIEWER’S OPINION:This is the ninth book in the Reacher series and one of the better ones.
The bad guys trying to harm Reacher was done well.
I liked some of the things Reacher did as he was evading the bad guys and the cops.
I would have liked a few more fight scenes, but I won’t complain.
I was ok with it.THE SERIES:I suggest reading the books in order, but not required.
A 4 star read- plus I just had to add 1 more for the MC- Reacher!! I'm only on book 9 and looking forward to getting thru them ALL.... I'm guessing that Reacher doesn't get that much older as the series progresses..... *sigh* I love the guy!!
If you are already a Jack Reacher fan - the number of whom which I assume is now increasing each day (the last book - A Man Wanted debuted at NYT No 1 position this September) - then I don't need to tell you this.
Jack Reacher books are entertainers - not much intelligence there - but very catchy and very interesting.
The book's plot supposedly forms the base plot / inspiration plot for the Jan 2013 movie - but one look at the trailer and you can see that a lot has been played with (apart from getting that puny guy to pass off as 6'5 " and 250 lbs).
The first few pages were painful.
A sample from page 13: "The garage was always packed.
Reacher is a bland but likeable protagonist, notable mainly for being a loner and an expert investigator, but you wouldn't want to have to make conversation with him.
Reacher explains to him how he'd done it and I half expected the reply "And I'd have gotten away with it, too, if it weren't for you meddling kids!" And I think the actual conspiracy as described is a little convoluted and unconvincing.For me the Zec's flashbacks to Soviet Russia were the most powerful sections, and I'd have liked more of that kind of background.
My Rating: 4.4/5'One Shot' is definitely one of the best Jack Reacher novel.
It's what you call a novel you can't put down.
I read the whole 500 pages in like 10 hours.
The story is first class and the characters are fantastic and again please don't go around poking at the literary sense of the novel.
It has good writing but not great or excellent.
As always Jack Reacher kicks ass.
So I recommend this to anyone who wants a good thrill ride.
So thank you for reading the review and see you guys in my next review.
Man, it seems when I finish each Jack Reacher book I keep telling myself I'm gonna take a break from the series so I don't get burned out, but I find myself already jumping to the next book, and it leaves me wanting more!
The series is just so addictive!Jack Reacher is back in the action when a lone gunman senselessly guns down 5 innocent bystanders in a small Indiana city.
The man says, You got the wrong guy, then says, Get me Jack Reacher.
And then like a ghost, Reacher arrives in town, and he also knows the accused shooter, a trained sniper who never missed a shot.
One Shot is the ninth book in my biggest guilty pleasure series – Jack Reacher.
Since picking up Killing Floor, I have been slowly working my way through the Jack Reacher books.
As you can see, it’s not a series where I jump in one after the other – I pick up the series when the mood strikes me, when the guilty pleasure comes calling.
I know many will enjoy this, but it’s not the kind of storytelling I lean towards.
It was mediocre, and not the Jack Reacher book I would have picked to make into a movie.Overall, another fun guilty pleasure read.
A guy that big and tall would have a much harder time melting into the crowd and being a drifter than plain old ordinary Tom. Plus, it seems more likely that 5 locals would think they could out-fight Tom, than some jolly giant--so it makes a better plot point.
Plus, I liked that at the climax, Tom had to really fight his way in...Jack made it look too easy...(almost no resistance from Vladimir, come on, where's the fun in a showdown?).Another better thing about the movie--they got rid of his posse.
Way too many people in the climax of the book.
Suddenly things are a little bit spoiled for me: for a start, I'm imagining short-arsed Tom Cruise as Reacher which just isn't working for me (although he was a lot better in the movie than I'd been expecting), and knowing what's going to happen takes away a lot of the point of a Reacher novel.The movie and the novel are quite similar.
The biggest difference being that the movie felt a bit more contrived, whereas the novel seemed a lot more natural for Reacher.
But this was still a good read even with that taken away.In fact, the last three have been getting better and better.
When the Jack Reacher movie trailer first came out, and I found out it was based on a book, I was intrigued enough to pick it up.
Unfortunately, my logical brain assumed they would adapt the first book in the series, Killing Floor, and so I read the wrong book, as they took the screenplay from this book, the ninth in the series.
It also made it more clear in retrospect why this book was chosen to adapt into a movie, and not the first book in the series.
Чудничко. Направо чудесно :) Батко Джак пак наказва с големите шамари. И руснаци за разкош. Муцка и половина, да ме прощавате за лиготията :) Малко тестостерон никога не е излишен :)
I had always wanted to read a Jack Reacher book.
Ever since I have read the lone short story Second Child, featuring kid Reacher.
I had watched the movie before, but thanks to my dull memory, forgot all the key points, even the ending itself!
It was fast in the beginning, slow in the middle and calm by the end.
Reacher had his actions, but for me, mystery won me in this one.
But I liked Reacher nonetheless.
I think I will read another book of him right away, have another in my hand already.
It is then that the case's simplicity disappears as some form of conspiracy is apparent.
Child works his magic and creates another Reacher classic.While I have been pushing my way through the series by audiobook, I have neglected to tackle one of the issues I have had with Child's writing.
It was not as prevalent in this novel, but does stick out and, in a way, ruins the flow of dialogue.
Furthermore, I cannot overlook how varied Child has kept his Reacher novels; new crimes and approaches in each that tease out more of the Reacher character.
Quite a few people didn’t like Tom Cruise as Jack Reacher in the movie.
Sure, he doesn’t look at all like the Jack Reacher described in the books.
However, it is a highly entertaining movie and that is what many critics seem to forget these days.
What’s more, this movie is not just entertaining it is based on possibly one of the best books in the series.
Albeit the ninth book in the series, if anyone wanted to start reading, this would be a great way to start.
A great read and highly recommended.

Standard blah action book with the impossibly talented and cool hero.
A clever set-up is wasted by too much reveal too quickly.The writing is terse but too long.
I will explain, no, there is not time, let me sum up:If you think you are writing like Hemingway for your action book and you actually were, the book wouldn't be over 400 pages.
He writes short sentences.
Writes the next sentence.
The whole book.
Like that.
Lots of short sentences.
Examples like when they get to the hospital.
Writes, they went in.No shit, they went into the place they were going?
I have a lot of books and not enough space so I read this only to get it off my bookshelf.
I have 5 other Lee Childs and this book was going to decide the fate of the others.
Do they stay or do they get traded in at the used book store?
This book is as Badass as Jack Reacher is.
The excitement and suspense and action and mystery never let up till the end.
Highly recommended to those of you that like Action-Mystery-Suspense-Thrillers.
I am going thru the series for the 2nd time.This time an audio narrated by Dick Hill.The story was just okay and there was not a lot of Reacher violence, but there was enough.One problem for me was that I kept seeing Tom Cruise as Reacher.
Even though kissing someone the second time doesn't have the emotion as the first time, if it was good you'll go on.
This story takes place in Indiana.My TakeWhoa...it's all in what you know about the mindset of a sniper and thinking through each minute detail.
Sometimes I wonder if he's a supercomputer with all the arcane details he's got packed away.Hmmm, interesting bits about why Reacher quit the army.
Why did I have to mention "chopped liver"??What I don't get is why was it so important that Linsky allow Reacher to see him?
When and what length of time memory loss can cover.Reacher: "If it absolutely positively has to be destroyed by morning, call the United States Marine Corps".
Lee Child’s thrillers are inventive, with One Shot being totally original and distinctive in its storyline that similarly to authors such as Dick Francis for example, have a whole list of works that are each individual as the next one.
Questions such as why Barr kills five people with six shots to then leave a trail of evidence behind, as well as then asking for Reacher.
Lee Child is a master of the perverse solution to the set of questions no-one dared to ever ask in quite that way before, and the macho yet sensitive Jack Reacher is one of the more interesting series characters in thrillers.
