https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/139254.Empress_Orchid
“A man who does not like power will suffer from its cruelty.”  ----Shan SaAnchee Min, a Chinese author, has penned an enlightening tale about the last empress of China in her book called, Empress Orchid that revolves around a young concubine of the last emperor of the forbidden city where the young lady is caught in the race against an heir to the king in order to rise above her mistress status, but once she becomes the empress, she gets tangled up in the war of jealously, rage, ugly politics, scandals against the kingdom which she wants to desperately save it from the English invaders but the problem is the kingdom doesn't want to be saved, thereby becoming the sole reason for the downfall of the forbidden city.
Ci Xi has always been portrayed as a ruthless, evil woman with insatiable thirst for power and, in this book, she's described as a simple and sensuous woman who wants the best for her husband, a mother who wants her son to have what's rightfully his, and a I-don't-know-what who wants the best for China.The book starts off well: funny and engaging.
All these are true accounts actually, it's just the portrayal that I think is exaggerated.Unfortunately, the story ends when the son becomes the Emperor.
It's a complex conflict, but despite this, Anchee Min had completely lost my interest at that point and I was skimming the book rapidly (and not missing much, I suspect).Anchee Min recreates 1850s China with great detail which starts out fascinating but eventually gets tiresome as it weighs down the story.
Similarly, I started out liking and empathizing with Orchid but eventually grew disenchanted with her as the story became less about her and more about China and her character became increasingly flat.
Odlična, odlična, odlična knjiga! Stroga pravila i običaji carske Kine i jedna žena koja se od siromaštva do carice probila isključivo pomoću svoje pameti i dosjetljivosti. Spletke, ubojstva, enusi, carske priležnice i slom carske Kine, sve ispričano kroz oči carice Orhideje. Njezini strahovi, ljubav i osjećaji i razmišljanja opisani su jednako sjajno i istančano kao i velike carske povorke ili detalji na noktima ili haljinama.
But I trust my friend's taste of books, and, like I spent several paragraphs above saying, I love learning more about China and Japan, so a couple of weeks ago, I began my journey into 19th century China.There are many things I could use this review space to say about the book.
There are many, MANY things I could say about the book, and all would be relevant.But sometimes we want the irrelevant, the OFF-TOPIC responses when we are reading a review.
Min writes Orchid’s character with incredible humanity.
(view spoiler)[Orchid discovers that life in the Forbidden City is meaningless and hollow, and almost cannot bear the prospect that her life will be lived without love – it’s the kind of human regret we can all identify with – yet, the funny thing about regret, and which is certainly true in Orchid’s case, is that she did everything she could to escape the other life she could have had, a life of hard work, poverty, and an unwilling marriage, and there was never any guarantee that her life would have been happier on the outside.
The story of the Dowager Empress of China. It is mostly on her first few years as a concubine, with very little about the final years of the empire (but that's covered in The Last Empress). Nevertheless, very good at capturing the atmosphere and political intrigue. The story continues in The Last Empress (http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...).
I loved the author's autobiography (RED AZELEA) and her novel (KATHERINE)about a foreign English teacher in China, so I expected EMPRESS ORCHID to bring together her amazing talent for prose narrative in English, enhanced with her first-hand research of Chinese sources, to bring to life the mis-judged history of Empress Dowager Tz'u Hsi.
One of these quotes is from Sterling Seagrave from his book DRAGON LADY: THE LIFE AND LEGEND OF THE LAST EMPRESS OF CHINA, which refers to the fact that in 1974 most of the previously trusted scholarship on Tzu Hsi had been revealed as counterfeit.
I enjoyed this story.
It's the first time I've read author, Anchee Min, and I think she crafted an interesting look at China in the mid 1800's.
The Forbidden City where the Emperor and his wives, concubines and eunuchs lived has always been of interest to me.
I like stories about palace intrigues and this was a good one.
I will read the sequel and other books I can find by the author.
I picked it up on a whim as I was looking for a different book on the shelves of my library and my intuition was spot on that I would like it.
It becomes suffocating real.In general, there are two types of historical fiction (once you disregard trashy romance novels.
This too gets the reader to think and even gets the reader to read actual history.The second type of historical fiction doesn't function this way.
While she doesn't use the phrase "resuce her reputation from history", it does seem to a degree that Min is trying to do so.Yet, this book is not re-telling of a saintly figure surroned by people who do bad things while transfering the blame for such behavior on her, despite Orchid's seemingly desire to make her story do so.For that is the key to this book's success.
The book follows the story of Tzu Hsi (known as Orchid) who enters the Forbidden City as one of the Emperors concubines at the age of seventeen.
We see her struggle to keep the Emperor's interest whilst battling with Nuharoo to be allowed to raise her child herself (normal custom is for the first Empress to take over).
Whilst in History, she's portrayed as ruthless and power hungry, in this book we see her as a (relatively) normal women, struggling with the customs of the Forbidden City.
Kas man iš karto patiko: nors imperatorius turėjo daug žmonų ir sugulovių,Orchidėja nusprendė palikti pėdsaką istorijoje ir negyventi eilinio, pilko ir nežymaus imperatoriaus sugulovės gyvenimo.
Knyga pilna svarbių detalių, kurios padeda susidaryti aiškų ir neapsakomą vaizdą į to meto gyvenimo būdą, Uždraustojo miesto aplinką.
Sužavėjo tai kad nepaisant aukštos padėties ji sugebėjo išlikti tokia pati ir neprarado savojo "aš", nebuvo praryta visa apimančio Uždraustojo miesto šešėlio.
Man labai patiko kad ji norėjo padaryti viską kas įmanoma dėl savo sūnaus, padaryti jį tikru imperatoriumi, kuris supranta savo tautą, jos kultūrą, istoriją ir tai puoselėja.
This book intrigued me because of the summary I read on the inside flap, how this person seduced the emperor.
It was even more appealing that this was basically a documentary of a person’s life.
It provided a nice reprieve from the modern Chinese novels that I had been reading recently.
I liked learning about the imperial court life by learning about the culture and the politics.
(Though, the Manchus had done that to the Chinese).
I also liked the emphasis on Manchu vs Chinese, because that is rarely hi-lighted and I hadn't even heard of it before.
The story is extremely well written; the characters were compelling, the historical references are well introduced into the story and never weigh the plot down, and the storyline was exciting - I couldn’t put it down. You will appreciate Orchid’s agonies, triumphs, tragedies, and heartaches. These characters will touch your heart, and you will think of them long after the book has ended.
Zapravo mi se nije svidjela kineska kultura i obicaji jer su zene stavljane u zadnji red (zapravo koja je razlika u to doba bila u drugim kulturama?), a ono sto je najvaznije nisu mi se svidjeli obicaji kolji su toliko praznovjerni i ponizavajuci da je strasno.
te se prema tome oblikuje buducnost i svaki korak u zivotu.Prica prvenstveno govori o kineskom caru koji je slabic a kao takav i umire te snazi jedne od njegovih zena, Orhideji, koja preuzima stvari u svoje ruke i pokusava dici carstvo na noge nakon njegove smrti.
Cijela prica je jako dobra i zanimljiva, ali da je mozda malo skratila...Nekako pretpostavljam da ce nastavak ove knjige biti zanimljiviji zbog nacina na koji je djelo zavrseno.
Indah, menawan, dan penuh intrik.Tzu Hsi Yehonala, atau yang dalam bahasa Cina berarti anggrek adalah seorang Maharani, terlebih dia kaisar wanita yang paling lama berkuasa di Cina.
Dia yang dulu hanyalah gadis desa, berhasil mendapatkan kekuasaan lewat rayuan, intrik politik, dan kecerdasan luar biasa.Anggrek dulu hanyalah gadis berumur 17 tahun dari klan Yehonala, salah satu klan penguasa Manchu di Cina.
Pantang menyerah dan dengan dukungan kasim setianya An-te-hai, Anggrek akhirnya berhasil memikat Kaisar dan menjadi selir kesayangannya.Hidup di Kota Terlarang bagaikan peperangan dalam merebut perhatian Kaisar, satu-satunya lelaki dari 3000 wanita di sana.

In a twist, the Emperor refers to the Western invaders (Britain, France, US, Russia) as "barbarians," and this gives Western readers a chance to reflect on their own history books which depict that same history, but in a Western "voice." These historical/political digressions and Min's heavy description on Imperial art and everyday life do slow down the novel's otherwise engrossing story about manipulation, power, and (at times) seduction, but perhaps this makes the story more rounded?
After I finish "The Last Empress," Min's sequel to this book depicting the majority of Tzu Hsi's reign, I may feel more in a position to criticize Min's historical fiction on this period.
Njihove tradicije koje su zahtjevale besmislene obrede koji su trajali danima, trošenje novca na takve gluposti, ideja da ti car dopusti da se odeš objesiti ako nešto krivo napraviš, kao udijeli ti tu milost, ideja da se pola metra voziš u nosiljki jer te to razlikuje od običnih ljudi (pa nećeš valjda pola metra hodati???), život u neizmjernoj raskoši dok većina ostalih živi u siromaštvu, mržnja među svim tim priležnicama, spletke, podmetanje, poludjele stare priležnice bivšeg cara, a najgore od svega ideja da rodiš dijete, a onda si ga carica može prisvojiti...
I adored reading about what Orchid did to be chosen as a wife, and what she did later to gain the Emperor's interest.
Overall, my interest for the story was always kept alive, thanks to the countless dangers and the fascinating but also disturbing traditions.Another reason I liked the story was its main character.
I'm honestly very curious to see how she will evolve in the next book.Overall, Empress Orchid was a truly enjoyable and fascinating read, and I highly recommended it to fans of historical fiction.
Empress Orchid was one of those books which left me in the state of oblivion.
This book tells the beginnings of Ci Xi, known here affectionately as Orchid.
Because Orchid is the protagonist, Empress Orchid does boarder on being too one sided and opinionated.For example, Orchid's 'rival', Nuharoo, is often depicted as childlike and less intelligent.
The point is, Nuharoo is silver to Orchid's gold.
Nuharoo covered her ears.
I can't decide if I actually like Orchid, but since there is an accompanying book, The Last Empress, I'll give it a try before I decide!3.5 stars
Mainly because of all the books I own, I'm kinda pissed I read this one twice.
Mainly as I have so many books to read.
It was a story of a poor girl fallen from high background who managed to wiggle her way into the Forbidden City as a chosen Empress wife to the Emperor coz she was pretty and had spunk.
If you want to read a book of pretty girl does good and gets rich, troubled Prince into bed, but in the Forbidden City instead of generic Europe, then give it a go.
But just don't read it twice.
Ce dezamăgire...Mi-am pus speranța în sfârșit...Dar n-a fost să fie :(
I'm not sure if I'd just rather read a non-fiction book about the person, or subject, rather than a fictionalised work.
However, I understand that a written history can also be biased, inaccurate, or one-sided (sounds like Dragon Lady: The Life and Legend of the Last Empress of China might be an example) and often historical information is very much 'who knows?' anyway, so at least a fictionalised account is knowingly presenting you with a hypothetical.
An interesting person, so that book has at least introduced me to her.
I had high expectations for this book after hearing so much about it on GoodReads. It sort of fell short of those expectations though. I give it 3  stars, which is not bad but I thought it was going to be a 4 to 5 star book. The story itself was very good and it certainly started very well. Orchid is a very likeable character and because of her humble beginnings and barriers she has to battle you can’t help but like her. As woman living during the Ch’ing Dynasty in 1852 Orchid has many hurdles t
If the fictional account of Empress Orchid, however, has any note of truth I can’t say I blame her for using her intelligence and cunning to gain a foothold to power.
Starting from early on the fictional Orchid begins plotting with the help of her family on how to not only get the king to notice her, but to also remain his favorite.
I did enjoy the book though and learning about the sacrifices that Orchid had to make and about political and court life, but it’s not one that I would highly recommend.
Her era was that of the Opium Wars and the Taiping Rebellion and she played a pivotal part in Chinese history.I was riveted from the first page and through the first half or so of the book describing life in the palaces of the Forbidden City, and Min writes with a solid style, but I thought it later devolved into a romance novel.
Ultimately I thought in trying to redeem this historical figure, Min whitewashes her a bit too much--and it's not that I've read any conflicting historical account of her.
This is a fictionalized account of Empress Tsu His (known as Orchid) who was the power behind the throne of the Ch'ing Dynasty in the 19th century.
At the emperor's death in 1861, Orchid through the power of seduction and murder and with her diplomatic and manipulative skills took control of the court and became the ruler.This book is the description of a woman managing to come to power in a male-dominated society where love is survival, seduction is power and treachery is a way of life.
I think people that follow historical fiction will enjoy this book, I surely did.
Well, this was kind of fun, except that I don't really believe in this version of Cixi.
Why is that the authors of historical fiction are afraid to show their heroes as scheming, cunning, ruthless people they were, and end up excusing and sanitizing them?
I doubt Cixi was this goody-goody girl in her youth; I don't want to say she must have been evil or anything of the sort, but she must have been cleverer and more entertaining than that.I liked the details of the court life, and the relationship of the mother and son was well done.
I know that empresses Lü and Wu were guilty of this kind of thing, but that was about one thousand years earlier than Cixi's times.
Anyone know anything?
Orchid has lived much of her life in poverty, but at seventeen, she is chosen to be one of the Emperor’s seven wives/3000 concubines, and is swept into a life or luxury, power and intrigue she never could have imagined.
Being a concubine is not quite what she would have thought.
And Orchid (a.k.a. Tzu Hsi) is not your usual 19th century Chinese woman.
I don’t know very much Chinese history, so all this was new to me.
This was fiction, though, so I don’t know for sure what details happened, but it is a great story.
A life of intrique in dramatic times, novelised by an author who lived through turbulent political times herself.
The book does a good job of letting us into the world of obscene luxury and waste, the dullness of waiting, the fear of rejection, and undoubtedly Orchid was a remarkable woman who used the resources she had to save her own skin and do the best for her son in a treacherous Imperial court, but in the end I didn't really care that much what happened to her and longed for the book to be over.
