https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/191375.The_Invisible_Landscape
In my opinion, it is much easier for the layman to trudge through than The Invisible Landscape, which was simply to above-my-head for me to enjoy.The McKenna brothers cover a lot of ground in this one - shamans, schizophrenia, holographic thought, the experiment at La Chorrera, the I Ching, the Timewave hypothesis and the prediction of the eschaton - the end of the world-as-we-know-it that is expected to take place on December 21, 2012.
I bought this book at Shaman Drum on State in Ann Arbor during a period of my being on the outs with phonetic language.
(RIP McKenna, though I feel I've gotten to know him better as the internet has gained fidelity).
My intuition is that the brothers were onto something, which was their feeling as well, and all we can say about a talking fungus that told them the I Ching contained a map of time.
This is a pretty amazing book, given that the brothers McKenna were just in their mid 20s when they wrote it.
This book is going to take a long time to read. Virtually every sentence has to be re-read in order to comprehend
From a daring shamanistic experiment with hallucinogenic compounds they arrived at insights about a holographic temporal wave (called "time wave zero") based on a fractal of cycles which they could derive from the I Ching.The first part of the book is about the experiment the brothers McKenna undertook in La Chorrera in the Amazon in which they took a mixture of Ayahuasca and hallucinogenic mushrooms.
According to them, teleology must be included in proposition put forth, (anyway, current scientific methodology is too dissective, not wholistic), that reason must play a role in evolution, that it harms not the outcome if you make a few assumptions here & there (And there were many of those).
Fortunately they are the first to raise the skeptics flag at the start of the book, but counter it with, “what if only a fraction of this were proven to be true?” And how the reader would like to believe the deep conversations on Electronic spin resonance causing the pineal gland to act as a receptor & holographic creator of what we perceive as reality.

Part two deals with a speculative theory of time based on a mathematical elaboration on the I Ching.This whole book is drained with speculation, so if you're not into that kind of thing, don't read it cuz you probably won't make it through to the end.Below I will try to give a short overview of the two main theories brought forward in the book.
The book is definitely not an ordinary one.
On one hand it introduces the reader to a couple of things that are interesting in themselves (like shamanism, different types of psychedelics, the I Ching) but the recipe of the book seems to be: introduce the reader to a concept/idea + pile facts and anecdotes on top + add wild speculations.
So, definitely an interesting read and it will stretch your BS detector to the max.
This book in a nutshell is: “remember that time when we got super high on a multiple types of drugs in the Amazon forest?
Chronicling the McKenna's experiment at La Chorrera, this book expands on some of Terence's later work, including: holographic information and the timewave.This book did a great job filling gaps I had after listening to Mckenna lectures. I was particularly interested in the experiment-- this book delivered an interesting summery.
People weren't kidding when they say this is a difficult book. I don't often feel like I have no idea what I just read but there were several sections to this book I have no idea what I read haha. There's also a lot of really interesting things in this book and I didn't feel bored even when reading the sections I didn't understand.
Veryyy mind boggling... But very interesting information into the mind and time
It's as crazy as McKenna says it is!.. :)
This book is phenomenal. It changed my life. It's absolutely stunning the way McKenna is able to describe his journeys in to hyperspace.
first few pages on shamanism are quite interesting but when the mathematicals sequence, the i ching and his theory kicks in, i began to loose track
Some of the transitions are a bit lacking, some segues seem rushed, and some of the wording is confusing, but if you can overlook these (minor in my view, given the scope of the content) flaws you will find inspired reasoning that exemplifies the term 'lateral thinking'.We have three months to determine if Mckenna's intuitions regarding the end date for his Timewave Zero were correct.
I may explicate this in greater detail in a future edit.The 3rd movement is a study of the nature of time.
It should not be read as a scientific report of an experiment, at least not in the traditional sense, for the brothers themselves would be the first to tell you not to let the facts and science get in the way of a good story.
Secondly, the gravity of the experience precludes itself from any study that does not take into consideration at least a passing nod to the spiritual, the alien, the ineffable and the insane.
Each of these corridors of thought(and many others) is explored as parts of the concept, with sobering logic and analytical skill.A confounding and fascinating read.
At the very least, there is a lot of intriguing reference material used, and much like any other media I've experienced featuring or created by Terence McKenna, this book has opened up to me new topics for further research and consideration.The described experiment at La Chorrera is not very detailed, and I am assuming that to get a better account I will need to read True Hallucinations, as I already intend to do.
all in relation to the I-Ching.Although there is no mention of it in the book, I find it very interesting that the hexagrams used in the I-Ching are similar to binary, each Yao being broken or solid, much like on/off states.
This concept presents time as a variable with changing qualities, and the authors argue that the I-Ching presents a fractal map of "novelty" (never rigorously defined, alas) throughout history at all scales, a fractal structure to time which was intuited long ago by psychedelic shamans; at least, I think that's the argument.
And contrary to popular belief, this book and the Timewave software it discusses did not predict the end of the world in 2012; it instead assumed that this would be the end date of history and the point of "maximum ingression of novelty" (whatever that even means).
This is one of the most curious books out there.
A mindfuck indeed!BUT: the fact of the matter that there are McKenna geniuses behind this thinking makes it all more interesting.
Even though even Terrence kind of distanced himself from the detailed implications of the ideas put forward in this book, he still recognized it as (his) tour the force.
There is some brilliant thinking behind these chapters.This is my first McKenna book, but definitely not the last.
I am partially already familiar with his ideas and going deeper into it will certainly be interesting!

Dense and written in an academic style, the McKenna brothers put forth a pretty interesting interpretation of consciousness, reality, and time.
While some of the theories on drug metabolism have since been disproven, the notion of intercalation of drug molecules is still potentially accurate.
While the overarching theory of time and reality appeals to me, I don't know that their method of producing that theory is anything more than some occult numerology dressed up with some complicated mathematical analysis.Certainly a thought provoking read, and whether or not you agree with them, they generally provide a definite train of argument and/or evidence for their speculation.
The ideas presented still seem pretty radical today, and this will reward anyone who enjoys having their sense of certainty challenged a bit.
This book is very thought-provoking.
It covers a lot of subjects such as shamanism and hallucinogens, the mathematical and fractal patterns within the I Ching, and how mathematics relates to, explains, and inhabits these things.
The Timewave theory is discussed in this book, which is a concept I find endlessly fascinating.
Though it isn't mentioned in the book, whether McKenna felt it was irrelevant or didn't know about it, the Timewave theory directly relates to Pierre Teilhard de Chardin's theory of Complexity/Consciousness and the Noogenesis concept.
McKenna's style in this book is very eloquent, maybe a little too eloquent for the explanation of complex scientific, spiritual, and mathematical concepts.
I really liked the first half particularly, in which they lay out a scientific framework of their ideas.
The second part was a bit beyond my comprehension, though, so I don't know if I can accurately rate it.
It was an interesting read, but it was just difficult for me to follow the concepts.
That being said, many would say the opposite - that the first part was too scientifically dense to make sense, and the second part looped it all together.Regardless, they were very thorough in their writing, and I enjoyed that.
I think what McKenna says in this book (which would be the main idea), is that we seem to be stuck in our environmental conditions unless we begin to step outside the tradition, for that is when we begin to travel; when we are truly born.
However, the main idea is very clear, and underneath the rather difficult language is a philosophy of non-conformity.
Very brilliant and heavily researched, it can be read without any idea inside the mind, to experiment with psychotropic substances.
However, it remains clear that it is all relative, and that this example per say, represents that philosophy.
Tough tough read. The first half of the book and closer to the end is readable for the layman. This stuff gets really technical. THe idea that the mind is a hologram is introduced by Terence, and it would seem that he hasn't really heard of Bohm or Talbot or anyone else who wrote about it. Plus Time Wave zero is explained, and it's pretty awesome. Just grasping that is worth a try with this book.
Another book I dabbled in many years ago only to be left blown away, from dabbling alone. This one seems to be.. well even if it's off the mark or too "out there" it is from my impression, totally incredible for how it makes your mind feel when following along with it. Any book that challenges our normal, egotistic understanding of space and time is good by me
the book got a little too dense at time with all of the math etc but i listened to a series of lectures on the same subject and i really found the ideas here to be pretty interesting. i still think about his ideas regarding novelty and habit every once in a while.
Really in depth investigation of timewave zero concept which the late Terence McKenna formulated while using DMT and hallucinogens. His timewave zero graphs world events and predicts an end in December 2012...time will tell.
*Not light reading material*Before reading, first read True Hallucinations and have working knowledge of the I Ching. Then, prepare to watch as the I Ching is applied to time theory with interesting results.
journey thru mckennas minds journeying thru the unseen mind imagining us imagining it.. very hard read.. a holographic diagram for a mad dance with ancient space aged philosophy.. a bubbling cauldron of evolutions.. the title is the best summary..
