https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/217433.Home_Again
I can't even write a summary....just imagine the most ridiculous story possible involving a spoiled rich girl, a bad boy, and a priest...ha ha ha (it makes me laugh just to write it).The characters are completely fake, given so many different personality characteristics it is ridiculous, and then at the same time they form this perfection of a person (the saintly priest who is also gorgeous, the brilliant Dr. who put herself through school, selfless and giving, firm and tough when a Dr. and yet dependent and childlike as a mother...I won't even go into the gorgeous bad boy with a horrible family turned famous movie star with millions of dollars....).
I am obviously not the type of reader who should be reading Kristin Hannah books.
This book was exactly what I needed to read.
The characters were so rich that I felt genuine warmth for them all and loved their character development.
The one upset for me, and it’s very minor, is that I didn’t really like the character as Angel but I suspect we weren’t meant to – it was all about the extreme of emotions in the female characters and the different forms of love that exist in the world.
Every Hannah book that I have read has turned out to be a delight.
If you’re stuck in a reading hole, read one of these books.
He's a drug user, an alcoholic, and a womanizer, and he sees no reason to change his ways.Francis Demarco, Angel's older brother, is a priest, and for the last 16 years he has stepped in to fill a "father" or "uncle" role the best he can for Lina Hillyard, the 16 year old love child of Angel and Dr. Madeleine Hillyard.
Only...Angel doesn't know his daughter ever existed, and the author gives hints that Lina is Angel's daughter, only it isn't confirmed until halfway through the book.Madeleine Hillyard has become a cardiologist, raised her daughter with a priest who is her ex-lover's brother from their teenage years(ugh) and is the best of the best of heart transplant surgeons in the Seattle area.
I got through about a third of this book before I lost my patience and dropped it to the floor.
A few things I'm glad for: 1) that I didn't pay for the book; 2) that I don't live (or know anyone who does) in the emotionally warped world that the author's constructed here.
What really dropped my jaw was when another reviewer used the word 'empowering.' What's empowering about undermining all you've worked for and earned with the idea that 'true love cures all' ?!?!?!?!?
A world-class cardio surgeon pining away like a teenager?
I'm usually a big fan of Kristin Hannah, but Home Again just didn't do it for me.
How am I supposed to believe that you would still fall in love with the same man who broke your heart so many years ago?
Lots of teens would sometimes feel lost when one of their parents isn't a part of their life, and Lina was extremely lost (drugs, drinking, tantrums).
All you get to know is that they just fell in love when they were teenagers, Angel ran away and broke Madelaine's heart, then they fall in love again after so many years.
Once again, I was irrevocably sucked into the world the Kristin Hannah constructed in "Home Again" as the characters learn the key issues of life that crop up in any one of her novels; redemption, faith, forgiveness, family, and/or love.
In "Home Again," Kristin shows all these elements and does it so beautifully that you can't help but feel and encompass every single emotion that the characters traipse across.
It also as a spiritual element to it that will take your breath as you read each of those short perspective sections.If you like authors like Jodi Picoult and John Green, then you'll love Kristin Hannah's books.
This was the first Kristin Hannah book that really let me down.
I think this could have been a much better book than it was, the story arch was great, but the characters were flat and transparent.
i also found myself disliking the whiny nature of every character in this book.
is it possible for every character in a story to be this boring and irritating?i've read worse, but i have also read better.
this book gets 3 stars for the mediocrity of everything between the front and back covers.
some stories really resonate and make you remember them.
this is NOT one of those stories.
This is the story of a heart transplant patient who finds himself back in his own home town, and not by choice. It is a place filled with memories and people he never expected to see again. His selfish lifestyle has damaged those who loved him and the child he never knew existed.The question here is, can people change, and can broken hearts heal?There is a lot of substance in this story and, as is her custom, Kristin Hannah hits at the very core of the emotions, weaving a novel which is both compassionate and heartwarming. Well worth the time!!
Een handvol hemel is een onwaarschijnlijk mooi verhaal! Het had, voor mij, even wat tijd nodig om het helemaal in het verhaal te komen, maar oh...wat ben ik blij dat ik doorgezet heb! Emoties als, liefde, rouw, moeder/dochter relatie, vader/dochter relatie en vergiffenis komen allemaal aan bod. Wat ik het allermooist vond, was de rol (stem) van Francis aan het einde van het verhaal. Minpuntje was dat het wel enigszins voorspelbaar was☺️
Zoals we verwachten van Kristin , heeft dit verhaal ook alweer de traankanalen gevonden. Wat een mooi ontroerend verhaal. Eentje om zeker te lezen en met een mooie boodschap. ‘Blijf geloven, altijd geloven’
Whimsical This is a whimsical story of an odd pairing. A cardiologist and a priest are best friends. A sick patient links them even more together. This is the story of old friends and new beginnings. A fairly easy read that leaves you feeling good in the end.
This book gives you an enormous amount of hope, faith, and love.
The way he takes care of Maddy and Lina, and loves them so deeply in such a pure and Godly way.
Angel, Frances brother is the opposite but has a heart of Gold.
The story develops as Angel needs a heart transplant and goes back to his hometown, where he ran away when Maddy became pregnant at 16.
And the story unfolds when Frances dies and Angel gets his brother's heart.
The way all these characters come together through grief, forgiveness and hope is incredible...
This was like a bad Hallmark/Lifetime movie of the week.
This one I did get all the way through, but only because it was an audio book and I was captive in my car.
The best thing I can say about this book is it's inspiring to know that an author can mature and grow in their craft to move from this drivel to absolutely brilliant writing like "The Nightingale" and "Winter Garden." There were some plot devices in "Home Again" that the author revisited in "Night Road" with much more success and conviction.
Home Again5 / 5Kristin Hannah does it again!
Another wonderful story filled with hope & love.
The story was wrapped in a very neat & tidy little package.
Some might say, a little too good to be true but I was more than fine with that.
In true Kristin Hannah form, this is another "grab the Kleenex!" story.
For me, he was Bradley Cooper (The Hangover) and I definitely had a little crush on him throughout this book.
;) The romance in Home Again was wonderfully written.Thank you, Ms. Hannah, for another uplifting story filled with hope, forgiveness, selflessness and love.
This was the first time Kristin Hannah ever disappointed me so much I almost gave up on the book.It's blatant that the book was one of her earlier novels because the characters were so thinly veiled, the plot was so see-through that it was liking reading a slice of Swiss cheese, and I was groaning at the constant cliches.
It was like reading a Hallmark movie.
If you fell in love with Kristin Hannah's later works like "Firefly Lane," "Winter Garden," or "The Nightingale" and are trying on catching up on her full repertoire, do yourself a favor and pass on this one.
Oh my goodness. I don't think I've enjoyed a book more in the past year or so as much as I did this book! I started to need the Kleenex close to half way into the book and went through about 3 boxes! It's a great book that makes you feel all warm and fuzzy in the inside! GREAT BOOK! =)
I love all of this authors books. This story goes way beyond being a good read! Its really a page turner and you defo need your hankies
The story plot was very predictable. Good, easy read.
An enjoyable story of family, forgiveness, redemption and second chances. I love getting lost in a Kristin Hannah novel.
Kristin Hannah has a way with relationships. The twists, the turns, the pain, the regret. She also knows the highs and lows and all around joy and angst of what it means to love. When a high-profile celebrity faces his own mortality and a heart transplant, he returns home to the loved ones he left behind. Amidst the turmoil, he has to find, no pun, the heart to forgive himself, the courage to make amends, and the hope for a better future.
A beautiful novel by one of my favorite authors - Kristin Hannah. The book delves into relationships, lost and found, intertwined with the complex relationship of Madelaine, a working single mom and a troubled teenage-daughter, Lina. Lots of ups and downs tinged with many little surprises in the plot. I couldn't put it down !!! A special place in my heart for this one ! Thanks Kristin Hannah! Keep writing....
A well written story with great character development.While this is a work of fiction and perhaps not meant to make the reader reflect on the issues surrounding organ donation, it certainly did for me. (This may be due to the fact that my family experienced the issue on a first hand basis and it was such an emotional and difficult decision.). I felt that the author handled the emotions of topic very well and I appreciate that she didn't make the decision seem like an easy one for any of the people it involves (the donor's family or the recipient).
I've read this book before but I have to admit: I thought it was better. Or maybe I've changed in the meantime. It's ok but a bit cheesy at times. So 3 stars.
Pretty sappy.
Sweet book but very predictable. Quick read!
A beautiful, heartwarming novel.First let me say that Kristen Hannah is one of my favorite writers. This is such a touching novel that once I even cried. The characters are so human and filled with emotion. The storyline is realistic. It is filled with life changing scenarios. The only criticism I have is that it seems a bit disjointed which was disappointing. Altogether though I highly recommend it.
I love Kristin Hannah! This is a memorable story of love and forgiveness. This a must read for anyone who wants to feel good after they finish the book. Hannah is perfect at digging into her characters personalities. Always keep a box of kleenex at your side when reading her books, they are powerful and emotionally charged.
I thought the premise of the story was interesting - childhood sweethearts reunite when the guy, a famous movie star, needs a heart transplant and the girl is his assigned cardiologist.
I thought the perspective of the cardiologist in particular though, was completely unbelievable and was used more to keep the reader in suspense then a realistic portrayal of a single mom.
Kristin Hannah is one of my favorite authors!This book was picked up at a yard sale for 50 cents and what an amazing treasure it turned out to be.
I couldn't put it down...LOL.I loved the characters and was quickly feeling what was happening in their lives as Kristin writes so dramatically.
I was crying more then laughing on this one but it warmed my heart and somehow I feel encouraged.Life is hard...turns come at us with no warning...we move forward and press to live the best we can.
This book is about second chances.
The daughter yearns to know her dad, the mother is afraid he will break her heart, the priest falls in love with Madeline but wants to do the right thing and Angel is a famous, rich actor living life in the fast lane until he has a third heart attack and winds up in the hospital back in his home town.The heart transplant angle was very interesting in this book and it was fun seeing how the characters grew.
