https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12049.The_Spider_s_House
The other story is written from the point of view of an American expatriate living in Fez called Stenham.
He hangs out with a variety of foreigners in the city and they have different views on Morocco, the French colonizers and the future of this country in the northwestern corner of the African continent.
Some of Stenham friends support the French, others including Polly, an American woman are ardent supporters of the Moroccan independence movement (Istiqlal) and believe that the Moroccans are entitled to the same rights like Americans and the rest of the West.
He fears that independence will radically change the Morocco he fell in love with.Halfway through the book, the paths of Amar and Stenham converge.
The major portion of this book, the first 80%, is an utterly enchanting meditation on an exotic land (Morocco) and the contrasts between the archaic and modernity. The writing is brilliant. But the final part of the story either wobbled or, in my view, just collapsed - as Bowles simply didn't know how to resolve the story he had so meticulously constructed. If one can ignore this flaw, reading this book will be enormously rewarding.
Leaving me mystifed, muddled, confused - so basically, the same way I feel reading coverage of these same political-religious conflicts today.I dock a star because the plot is nonsensical in places (and I think not only because I was so confused as to the events/history being depicted); Polly as a character is appallingly flat and clichéd (sort of forgiveable, as mentioned, because it's 1954) and the dialogue and relationship between Stenham and Polly seems unmotivated and unrealistic.BUT - the last scene between Polly, Stenham and Amar is breathtaking.
Bowles sets the story in Fes, Morocco during the struggle for independence from France.
He brilliantly uses different viewpoints--a local Muslim, a resident American, and a tourist American--to analyze different perspectives on the struggle.
The Fes resident is a committed Muslim who sees his hatred for the infidels--in this case the French--as ordained and approved by Allah.
The resident American loves Fes, at least for what it used to be.
To her, modernity is inevitable, and to resist the change that even the French are trying to bring foreshadows the death of that culture.
But the book is also about change.
It has been about two years since i read this book, so i won't go into too much plot detail, but i will instead share some of my impressions of the book.This book was written circa 1956-58 by Paul Bowles, an American author who spent most of his adult life living in Morocco.
The story follows a young Moroccan and an American author simultaneously, and depicts what happens when their paths cross.Bowles writes with a rather straight-forward, almost journalistic style, painting a decidedly unsympathetic picture of his characters.
Set during their revolution against the French, the story follows two strands, that of an illiterate but intelligent native boy and that of an American novelist (and his cohorts, at differing times) living in the country for the last five years.The book is at its strongest when telling from the perspective of the Moroccan boy.
No one is spared from Bowles' criticism as even the most kind hearted and giving person is full of it at points and flat out incorrect at others.
As much as I hate to admit it, many of the observations made about culture and the perception of foreigners really opened my eyes.
My favourite anecdote is when one of the Moroccan characters sees a woman, and the way he takes her in.
Initially he says, “She must be a prostitute of the lowest sort, because even decent prostitutes display some sense of modesty” and then he realizes she is a foreigner, and an American.
Just makes me think about the way people view me in public, especially since I look Moroccan.
This makes for a lot of rather black humour in the novel, and a perceptive discourse on the role of art and truth in fiction.Amar's daily scrabble for survival on the hard streets of Fez means he has no overarching sense of historical significance; he literally lives from one moment to the next, in the context of his moral convictions, which are shaped by the immutable tenets of Islam.His world gets thrown into turmoil when nationalistic violence erupts in Fez, leading to a chance encounter with the pair of expats, and a steep learning curve for all on the mysteries and tragedies of the world.Bowles writes in his introduction that "Fiction should always stay clear of political considerations" -- which is a peculiar statement considering that A Spider's House is acutely political.Or is it?
Com as suas fantásticas descrições Paul Bowles desperta os nossos sentidos e parece, efectivamente, transportar-nos para os cenários de que nos fala.
Ficam-nos imagens fortes que, acompanhadas de uma abordagem competente da cultura local, a nível religioso e político, e perdendo tempo fundamentando mentalidades e costumes, transformam este livro numa leitura muito interessante.A narrativa aproxima-nos a dois lados e culturas bastante diferentes.
Bowles mostra-nos os dois lados, e até mais, de forma equivalente, fundamentando-os.
Matter was conditioned by time, but not consciousness; it existed outside time.
Was there then any valid basis for assuming that it was possible to know what went on inside the consciousness at the moment of death?
No matter what went on outside, the mind forged ahead, manufacturing its own adventures for itself, and who was to know where reality was, inside or out?
And in the final analysis what more comendable and useful thing had mankind accomplished during its whole existence, than inventing of gods in whom its members could wholly believe, and believing, theryby find life more bearable?
I never wanted this book to end. Bowles is amazing in his ability to portray so many different sides and cultures that are at conflict, not only assuming how they might act or speak, but going into entire thought processes, histories and cultural values revealing an entire reasoning for every action. I felt the same way when I finished The Sheltering Sky and I can't wait to read more of his writing.
Але порадила особа, котра сама прожила декілька років у Танжері, дуже багато читає (в тому числі, про марокканську історію та культуру), і назвала саме цей текст найточнішим і найцікавішим із того, що можна знайти в художній літературі про цю країну.Щоб надто не спойлерити, скажу лише, що йдеться про 1950-ті роки - а власне, період напередодні та на початку антифранцузького повстання, яке врешті призвело до здобуття незалежності Марокко.
А крім того, Боулз дуже тонко передає атмосферу наростання змін, які починаються з дрібниць, аби поступово, майже непомітно, дійти до тієї критичної точки, в якій взаємна неприязнь переростає у ворожнечу і нарешті готовність до взаємознищення.
This effort comes to a dangerous head, and the effects on Amar and the two Americans make up the second half of the book.Of course the author was an outsider, neither Moroccan nor Muslim, and I can't claim to be able to judge whether his depictions are accurate or fanciful — but I feel certain there are many truths here, and I also feel sure that in Amar, Bowles was trying to come to terms with what he knew and what he guessed about the worldview of many Moroccans at that time.
Even though I read her Introduction after I had finished the book, I had had many of the same thoughts while reading about Amar's thoughts regarding the French and other western people.
I think it's possible to read it in all ways at once and to revel in the prose, the bite, the wit:"it was too bad she had to have opinions; she had been so agreeable to begin with before she had started to express them.
He would have liked to prolong the status quo because the decor that went with it suited his personal taste." For all that, it fails as a political project; precisely because it's no good reading a white dude's self-absorbed account of white tourists during a revolution (or a white dude's "channelling" of an Arab youth).
The novel's protagonist is a Fassi boy and much of the story is told from his point of view, which makes the contrast between his worldview and that of the American characters very stark and, ultimately, devastating.
The American protagonists are slowly revealed to be people entirely selfish and not knowledgeable about Islam and local customs (even though the male character, Stenham, supposes himself an expert in such things; Bowles quite nicely reveals how arrogant and frankly stupid orientalist attitudes are).
Bowles also nicely represents the divide between Islam and the leninist-voluntarist beliefs and tactics of the Istiqlal as they played out in Fez during the first year of the war.
This should have been an easy one for me.... I like Paul Bowles and I like Fez. Unfortunately, this book just didn't work for me, overly long and meandering. The relationship between Stenham and Lee Burroughs just doesn't ring true. They don't seem that interested in,or even to like, each other. If this had been written by Graham Greene it would have been two hundred pages shorter and the boy would have ended up dead through some act of betrayal. Bowles seems to have been dragged reluctantly into a genre he quite clearly isn't comfortable with... political thriller.
Většina příběhů se točí kolem trojúhelníků. Nejčastěji manželských nebo partnerských. Také příběh pavoučího domu se točí víceméně stále jen kolem tří osob. Ale do klasického manželského trojúhelníku má na míle daleko. --- První z třetice hlavních hrdinů je mladičký marocký chlapec Amr. Ještě není moc poznamenaný nově přicházející kulturou evropanů a tak jeho život řídí Alláh.
Here, the mountains away from Fez, they get a chance to touch something like Stenham's Romantic notion of Moroccan civilization, but they are also confirmed outsiders, and Stenham knows it will all change soon enough.Amar makes his way back to the city, which sets the stage for the final section.
And so he leaves Amar, on the side of the road--which makes no sense for Stenham as a character, and even less so for Lee to agree to it, but is done in the service of the symbol, the fable.It's an awkward ending to an awkward book.

I've been living in Fez for four days with Amar, Polly (Lee) and John Stenham.
Paul Bowles artfully weaves Arabic and French words in the story which did bother me at first (much like the first few days traveling in Asia or the Middle East) until i gave into it and caught on.
No one was really in a comfort zone with all of the changes happening in French-occupied Morocco.
Bowles lived in Morocco and had a writer's view of the changes happening there that he captured beautifully.
Does confronting another culture help us know ourselves or do we leave it behind like John and Polly?
In the early twentieth century, the French made Morocco a Protectorate; the Moroccan way of life continued much the same.
In the early 1950s, a group of Moroccan nationalists emerged.
In all, this story portrays the interactions among them.
The featured interaction begins when the American writers and the Moroccan boy temporarily befriend each other.
(The entire plot extends over a few days, possibly three or four days.) One way in which Bowles demonstrates multicultural interactions is through the juxtaposition of Arabic, Maghrebi, French, and English language.
This novel is full of the penetrating psychological and political insight typical of his best writings.
Many of Bowles' observations on the relations between the occupying French and the Morrocans are stilll depressingly relevant to the political theater of today.
Anyone not aquainted with Paul Bowles might want to start with his Collected Stories, which I find to be some of the best American writing of the 20th century.
If you enjoyed The Sheltering Sky, I highly recommend this book.
If you've never read The Sheltering Sky, read this one or his Collected Stories first.
From the famous author who lived in Fez, eve of 1956 from the POV of a teenage boy and a crusty American expat.
I enjoyed being in Fez while reading this, as it brought the city alive in a new way; it made you see the cracks and crevices and piles of trash as parts of a long fascinating and tumultuous history.
Interesting to read the POV of a Muslim boy written by an American, too--and his other character is a writer bemoaning how the romantic Fez he knew will never be the same.
What I enjoy about reading Paul Bowles is the departure one inevitably embarks on during the process.
Not just the fact that the places he writes about - and his ability to transport you there - are truly far away, but also the thought processes, opinions, and perceptions of the characters...
Yet the differences, the color, of these characters (at nearly the end of the book I realized at least 3 or 4 of them, although completely at odds in terms of views of religious, political, gender and existence were simply shades on himself) never feels contrived; and always real, natural, fresh and surprisingly human.
I can't say this is my favorite Bowles work, but it's replete with everything I love about his writing.
More essential Morocco reading
Morocco in 1955. The tension in the country is at an all-time high and the citizens of the country are torn into two communities. You’re either Muslim or French and Berber, and there is no in between. The Spider’s House, by Paul Bowles, contemplates the ideas of Muslim and immigrant minorities in the country who didn’t have a say. He gives them a powerful voice. Paul Bowles, an American-born musician, has produced many music pieces like “The Night Waltz” and “Music for a Farce”. He has a specia
The Spider’s House, by Paul Bowles, contemplates the ideas of Muslim and immigrant minorities in the country who didn’t have a say.
The Spider’s House is his third novel and takes a turn from his usual writings to incorporate more political themes.We follow the perspectives of characters that are “outsiders” to the conflict within Morocco.
One character is Stenham, an American immigrant living in Fez who has an intense outlook on life.
Following the intensity of the political climate between the French and Moroccans in the 1950’s, Bowles captivates the audience with the complex internal struggle of characters.
It sounded less dark and more insightful than The Sheltering Sky. Putting it down not only did his writing give great insights into the country's cultural workings and recent history, but I found his writing really affecting.
What I enjoyed the most was his ability to bring to the physical world those hazy inner-thoughts that accompany our every action: our inner dialogue.
It seems he's spent a good time with his own and been able to crystallise those thoughts in a sort of self-reflexive act, in turn injecting this crystalline self analysis into his characters.
Certain passages triggered self reflection of my own actions.
A novel of great beauty, depth and artistic insight into human psychology.
Set during the Moroccan War for independence from France, Bowles explores the myriad views of Morocco’s plight— from an ultra-conservative Moslem boy to two American visitors who both pro-independence, but are immune to the country’s troubles and their county’s own complicity in the oppression of Moroccan citizens. He shows that both sides are very similar in how they hold to their beliefs— even revealing how both are misogynistic— but also shows how their beliefs prevent them from understanding each other’s viewpoints. It’s a weighty book that maintains a hard, spare look at the consequences of colonialism.
Piękny język, wspaniała proza, świetnie skomponowana książka. Historia napisana z punktu widzenia kilku narracji. Niełatwa jednak w czytaniu i wymagająca skupienia. Jest tu historia polityczna, Maroko i wpływy Francuskie, jest historia zauroczenia a emocjonalne napięcie widziane jest przez Bowls’a po obu stronach romansu. Jest w końcu historia dorastającego młodzieńca wychowanego w ortodoksyjnym muzułmańskim domu. Smaczna i gęsta proza, można ją smakować i delektować się długo patrząc w zdumieniu jak aktualne dziś dla nas tu i teraz treści porusza.
This is a great book and I think anyone who goes to a country like Morocco should read it before they go to gain some understanding about the impact and influences they can have on people they casually meet. People should never be treated as a tourist attraction. The main characters in this book are unwittingly arrogant, naive, and are as blithely ignorant as Europeans so often are in Paul Bowles books. The description on the book jacket is accurate.
