https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6422978-toward-the-creative-nothing-and-other-writings
For five long years…  It was then that the great vagabonds of the spirit, taken with a new disgust, rode their free eagles once more to soar dizzily in the solitude of their distant glaciers to laugh and curse.""The human frogs knew neither how to distinguish their own enemy nor how to fight for their own ideas.
And it danced hideously in the muddy trenches of all parts of the world.""What an idiotic thing to die without knowing why…""Our thunderbolt could unhinge the present reality, rip open the door to the unknown mystery of our longed-for dream and show the supreme beauty of the liberated man.
Per example, the intro writes:"Now more than ever we need an anti-democratic, anti-capitalist, anti-state revolutionary movement which aims at the total liberation of every individual from all that prevents her from living his life in terms of her most beautiful dreams — dreams freed from the limits of the market."Only anarchists high on their own supply of endless Dionysian (which is to say, unreasonable) optimism can say such optimistic nonsense.
This is what makes Novatore an interesting character: his words about blood and war and taking action were reflected in his real life, if you know anything about the man.
I normally enjoy reading this sort of writing style—Romantic, idealistic, impassioned—but this just didn't do it for me.
It was essentially a constant stream of half-thought metaphors without elaboration, an incoherent and confusing rant that read like a poem.
This work is what happens when you have the right mindset—rebellion against authority, the freedom of the individual, the greatness of the I—but the wrong philosophy—idealism over materialism, irrationality over reason, an amoral view of violence, and contrarianism for its own sake.Beautiful ideals?
No."Our heart is a torch, our mind is a beacon, our brain is a pyre!…" So says Novatore.
But it seems that the pyre of his brain was lit all too soon, and nothing remains of it but ashes.
Novatore was a anarcho-individualist or some shit like that.
It's all grandiose blowing about of living free and stuff, with very little of the actual theory that the author so proudly shouts about actually brought to the table.
That's OK by me because I hate reading theory.
You know, I have no real idea why this ended up on my booklist at all.
Which is the only reason why I read it.
Hell, at least I know why I read it.
If this is your kind of thing or if it's not and for some reason you picked it up anyway, like I did.
