https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16435.Life_Expectancy
My second favorite Koontz' novel!!!  A TRUE FAVORITE I love this book!!!This novel isn't featured in my virtual shelf of "Favorites", but not because I don't like it, just since I already have Phantoms in that shelf and I want to keep it to maximum 10 books there, it would have to be 2 books from Dean Koontz and if I have to make the hard choice, I'd choose Phantoms.But, Life Expectancy is a REALLY CLOSE second favorite book by Dean Koontz.It's one of the best books that I ever read. NOT HORROR
I love this book!!!This novel isn't featured in my virtual shelf of "Favorites", but not because I don't like it, just since I already have Phantoms in that shelf and I want to keep it to maximum 10 books there, it would have to be 2 books from Dean Koontz and if I have to make the hard choice, I'd choose Phantoms.But, Life Expectancy is a REALLY CLOSE second favorite book by Dean Koontz.It's one of the best books that I ever read.
Life Expectancy is a pretty fun read. It was so different than most books I've read in the genre, and was much different than I expected. It flows so perfectly from the first person point of view, and the characters are unforgettable. Plus, it has clowns...
It will make you laugh, it will make you cry, it will make you question all good looking men.
I realize Koontz is absurdly prolific, but I really liked LIFE EXPECTANCY. It was a fun premise with great characters. I love the family that keeps "baker's hours" and I still remember that Jimmy Tock had a Dodge Daytona Turbo just like the one I bought in 1988. And, who could forget the evil Conrad Beezo? This is a great read.
The thing is, Koontz spends the entire novel finding ways around these five days, in turn rendering the grandfather's predictions utterly useless.
What would have made this book epic is if Koontz had managed to actually achieve what the packaging promises, therein surprising us with unforeseeable twists which occur on the days Deathbed Granddaddy predicted.
When that ending didn't pack enough of a punch for Koontz's liking, we find out that Jimmy and the villain are really the product of an incestuous relationship between their biological grandfather/father and his daughter/their mother.
We are born for wonder, for joy, for hope, for love, to marvel at the mystery of existence, to be ravished by the beauty of the world, to seek truth and meaning, to acquire wisdom, and by our treatment of others to brighten the corner where we are.""No one can grant you happiness.
Happiness is a choice we all have the power to make."Ever since first reading this book 2005, I have considered it my very favorite Dean Koontz novel.
It's lessons on life and family are wonderful - the clowns and aerialists are entertaining :-) and we mustn't forget Grandma Roweena (my favorite character in the story) PREPARE TO BE ENCHANTED!!!!!!
I borrowed this book from a library. It is my second time reading it. Update: 5-21-18I finished it! I might do a review. This is something very personal.
This is what I wrote reading this book........This is the second time I am trying to read this book.I am a huge Koontz fan but this book really disappointed me.It is so far, not exiting or scary at all, because the main characters are not frightened.They are constantly making funny (not) remarks and it is just not realistic.You are a hostage and you are constantly cracking jokes!!!
No way.I have read 170 pages of the book and am really struggling (again!) to read more.And that is really an exception cause I love all Koontz his books.
The humour is just way to much.
I don't buy a Koontz books to be laughing (I don't laugh by the way, not my kind of humour anyways) but I buy his books to be scared!
Never going to finish this one. The very fact that I've tried to do it for four years probably tells you that it drives me insane with how boring, dragging and not fun it is to read.
This is my first Dean Koontz book.
I expected a horror story, but this book was actually quite funny.
I just grabbed it off the paperback section of the library to take to the beach, and I was pleasantly surprised.
Initially, I found the main character, Jimmy, a little like Ignatiuos Reilly from "Confederacy of Dunces," but he actually had a great deal more sense.
This book is eccentric because it combines the bizarro with the little sweet lessons about the good and honest things in life- love, family, and faith.
There are unexpected surprises and alot of humor.
I absolutely loved the book!The humor was surprising and the story was as good as anything I've ever read. I could not put this one down, and it thrilled me from beginning to end.!
3  stars. Tongue in cheek mystery suspense.I was disappointed when I saw this was first person. Sometimes it works, but usually it’s not as good for me, and in this case first person did not help. The plot premise was odd. It didn’t draw me in as much as other plots. When the book begins, we are told something disastrous will happen five times during Jimmy’s life. It feels like a scavenger hunt. The first day comes and we watch a disaster which Jimmy survives. Then we wait a little and watch the
Tongue in cheek mystery suspense.I was disappointed when I saw this was first person.
When the book begins, we are told something disastrous will happen five times during Jimmy’s life.
The first day comes and we watch a disaster which Jimmy survives.
If you’re new to this author, don’t start with this book.
On one of the disaster days, a box is delivered to Jimmy at his home.
(hide spoiler)]DATA:Narrative mode: first person Jimmy and a little Lorrie.
Book copyright: 2004.
Dates are copyright dates.5 stars.
Watchers 19875 stars.
Lightning 19885 stars.
Intensity 19953 stars.
Odd Thomas 20033 ½ stars.
Life Expectancy 20042 stars.
Best Koontz book I've read yet, and I thought Odd Thomas would be a tough act to follow.
I may have to pick up a copy of this book for own PC bookshelf so I can let hubby and all my other non-BC friends read it too.
I must read a few more chapters so I can see how this part turns out!
LOL Though it contained plenty of suspense, it was also a love story in a sense, not a romance, but so many parts of the book, and particularly the end, gave me the warm fuzzies--the kind that bring tears to your eyes.
I read this book for the first time in August or September of 2011, which started my love of Dean Koontz novels.
Now, five years later, I've finally read this book again.
The events of this novel don't seem like they would make a compelling story, and yet they do.
Koontz has a beautiful style that has me laughing out loud often, even when the characters are facing life and death situations.
There is horror in the novel, just like there is in the world.
And if there is horror then should there not also be humor?
This book was a strange book.
I don't know how else to describe it.
When my husband told me it was a weird one but he thought I would like it, I really I was almost sure I didn't want to read it.
I almost pasted it up, but I am glad I didn't.
I never knew where it was going to go next.
I never even tried to make predictions like I normally would.
The entire time I was reading this one, I couldn't help but think that the author must have had a ball writing it!
I know I enjoyed it.
Βαθμολογία: 7/10Την περσινή Πρωτομαγιά ήταν η τελευταία φορά που διάβασα βιβλίο του Ντιν Κουντζ και όσο να'ναι μου έλειψε λιγάκι.
Η ιστορία μου φάνηκε αρκούντως ευκολοδιάβαστη και ψυχαγωγική, με αρκετή τρέλα, λίγη αγωνία και κάποιες αποκαλύψεις στην πλοκή, όμως νομίζω ότι ο Κουντζ τα (ψιλό) έκανε σαλάτα με την χιουμοριστική προσέγγιση και την όρεξη για πλάκα.
Θέλω να πω, σε κάποια σημεία μου φάνηκε τραβηγμένη από τ'αυτιά η χιουμοριστική διάθεση του αφηγητή της ιστορίας, καθώς και της γυναίκας της ζωής του, με αποτέλεσμα ορισμένες σκηνές να μην είναι ρεαλιστικές.
I'll try to avoid spoilers, but my favorite thing about this novel is how evrerything is connected.
I'll still be thinking about this book in the weeks to come, trying to work out what kind of 'lesson' (so to speak) I got from the story.
While it's vastly importment for a story to be entertaining it also helps greatly when the reader can take something out from the book.
When Jimmy and Laurie are (view spoiler)[ discussing cynicisim versus pessicisim I think it's a bit of a turning point for the two of them.
This is one of my favorite Dean Koontz novels. It has all of the elements you would expect to find in a DK novel!
Dean Koontz never disappoints. So many unexpected twists and turns. Gripping and imaginative story that reminded me why I used to read his books every chance I got.
But, despite Koontz’s success and book sales, Life satisfies like years-old McDonald’s fries lifted from the floorboard of an old Edsel.True to formula, Koontz starts "Life" with a supernatural bang: “On the night that I was born, my paternal grandfather, Josef Tock, made ten predictions that shaped my life.
Beezo, being insane and not too happy about the news, responds in a very unclown-like manner, gunning down everyone: doctors, nurses, patients, cops, but spares Rudy, his wife and their just-born little Jimmy because Rudy, after all, had become his waiting room buddy.
This book hits all the right chords: the absurdity of life, the interconnectedness of human beings, recognizable characters, signature humor, all put together with the reality of sudden violence.Minutes before Jimmy Tock was born, his dying grandfather made several predictions not only about his birth, but also gave warnings of five terrible days to come in his future.
Together with his family, Jimmy prepares himself for the inevitable.Told from Jimmy’s own first person perspective – and partly from his wife’s at the end of the novel, in a kind of cheesy “gotcha there!” attempt to add a rather fabricated final twist – the book wraps you in its arms of familiarity.
We are then granted a brief insight into the killer's brain as he feels the spider's power flow through him.Example 2: In Dean Koontz's Forever Odd, the prime antagonist, Datura, the evil phone sex operator (where does he come up with this shit?), plans to cut out and consume Odd's heart so as to gain his ability to see the dead.Example 3: Life Expectancy, which you are here to read about and I will now briefly discuss, has a scene where Punchinello Beezo, the insane clown (see comment about evil phone sex operator above) stops to eat a spider.
The premise of the story is a fun one: on the night of Jimmy Tock's birth, his dying grandfather predicts the time of Jimmy's birth, his weight, a physical ailment...and that Jimmy will suffer five terrible days in his life.
Considerately, Jimmy's grandfather even offers the dates of these five terrible days.Koontz loves his quirky characters, and Jimmy - a baker in a small Colorado ski town - is no exception.
He, his family, and the love of his life all share a healthy, if somewhat off-kilter sense of humor, and that sense of humor is displayed throughout the book, despite the threat of the Five Terrible Days that haunt Jimmy's life.
Laugh out loud funny at times, and yet also reflects on what makes a good life, relationship, and family, all in a suspenseful story!I loved the characters - the main one, Jimmy Tock, but also all the supporting cast of characters.
The story itself was engaging - I'm not sure how I'd really classify it, it had elements of drama, mystery, suspense, humor, and even romance (not gross fake romance, but real, sarcastic, honest, loving, inspiring romance).
The book subtly reflects on themes such as living your life to the fullest despite not knowing what the future holds, what makes "family", good vs.
The twist at the end seemed rushed, like DK was tired of writing and wanted to wrap up in a hurry.
Do they think the reader doesn't have the attention span to keep up with a single thought through multiple sentences.
I used to do that in elementary school, where I got to the end of that 2 page essay by writing large/using 12.5 or 13pt font (don't want to be too obvious by using 14pt).
Maybe Mr. DK is trying to expand his reader base by identifying with the average elementary schoolchild?
Jimmy was born on the day his grandfather died.
Jimmy's family didn't know what to make of Jimmy's grandfather's prophesy until the first of the dates arrived and Jimmy, indeed, had a horrible day, filled with tragedy.
The book really starts on the third of Jimmy's horrible days and the events that result.Jimmy is such a normal, lovable character, that you'll find yourself rooting for him more than most others.
But there are three more horrible days to get through.....after the first two, you start to wonder if he can survive them.
Koontz has rarely been whimsical in my opinion, yet ‘Life Expectancy’ displays a magical aura that surrounds it from its opening pages.
Koontz displays a mostly unseen talent of humor within this work as a chuckle can be discovered in nearly every chapter.
An author mostly associated with the supernatural tales of horror unexpectedly delivers a tale of love, family, fate and delicious baked goods.
Despite the lack of anything supernatural and the overall absurdity of them as characters, Koontz creates genuinely unsettling antagonists who nearly steal this story from the lovely Tock protagonists who might just be Koontz’s most charming creation.
I’ve inherited plenty of things from my mother (looks, laugh, sense of humor, mannerisms), and among those is a predilection for mystery novels, Dean Koontz, and plot twists.
If you’re craving a book with action that starts right away, and a plot that surprises you at every page-turn, this is a book for you.
If you enjoy relatable, humorous characters that provide a personable narration, this is a book for you.
Don’t forget about those plot twists I was talking about.
This is a great read and easily one of my favorite Koontz novels.
Mega langweilig und der Humor in diesem Buch (ich liebe Sarkasmus und schwarzen Humor) will einfach nicht zünden. Ich habe kein einziges Mal gelacht (nach 250 Seiten!), obwohl Koontz durchaus dies beim Leser bezwecken wollte. Nun gut... frustriert abgebrochen.
One of my favorite Koontz books that I’ve read. Very good mixture of intense drama and humor.
