https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/166566.The_Opium_of_the_Intellectuals

This critique of intellectual trends has broader applications for multiple contexts.
Aron first discusses a series of political myths - The Left, The Revolution, The Proletariat.
Such a description seems almost self-evident from my standpoint, but can apply to larger mass movements on multiple areas within the political spectrum or any group with a dualist 'good vs evil' view of the world.
Likewise, Aron considers whether revolution - the violent overthrow or rapid change of a political system is inherently good.
Aron is not explicitly anti-intellectual, nor does he underestimate the power of ideas to influence history.
A clear eyed attack on the moral shortcomings of French Marxist intellectuals in the 40s and early 50s.
While this topic may seem exoteric, the book is an extremely important work of political philosophy about the contortions people will often go through in order to make a particular belief system fit with facts that do not support said belief.
While this is an attack on Frenchman by a Frenchman, there are numerous cases where similar abuses were committed elsewhere, for example George Bernard Shah's shameful endorsement of Soviet Agricultural Collectivism even after seeing the full affects of the terror famine first hand, etc.
Ideology can be overwhelmingly blinding and Aron would not let his peers forget this.
France gave to liberalism some of these larger theorists (Bastiat in economy…) but liberalism is ever imposed in France. Worse,after second world war, the vast majority of the French intellectuals was Marxists.There had only one person, a hero, a watchtower to fight against totalitarianism and blindness, it was Raymond Aron. Face to Sartre'delire, his school-fellow at Normal-Sup, it is the alone French intellectual to only keep the cool head.The title is a paraphrase of Marx. Aron takes a malicious pleasure to dismount the modes theses and to highlight the risk of tyranny. History will agree to him.
Quite A CritiqueThe writer slammed the Western intellectuals for their hypocrisy towards communism. An essential read for those who want to dissect the religion called commnuism.
I'm glad that's over.A ponderous, pedantic, verbose book that I found unenjoyable and dated. Some books are timeless, this one is time bound. I really had to slog through it and I'm glad to be done. My time would have been better spent on something else. The book is not without merit but it is not worth the effort of separating the wheat from the chaff.
Anti-Communist rant mixed with real insight.
Excelente. Bom para entendermos o conservadorismo.
La fin ne justifie jamais les moyens, autrement dit, l'idéologie ne doit pas primer sur le réel. Malgré les références à la situation française (et mondiale) d'après guerre, le livre d'Aron est toujours autant d'actualité.
Found Aron in Postwar, where he is highly regarded by the author as voice of reason. Want to check him out.
One of the best, one of the most important book in the 20th Century.
KOBOBOOKS
