https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1662353.Anything_Can_Happen
Do you ever wonder what an immigrant from the 1940’s went through when they arrived in America?
In a way, the word “charming” comes to mind from this biography of Giorgi, a man from the country Georgia, as he comes to America and struggles to make ends meet and live a life in a new country, where he doesn’t understand the people, and the people don’t understand him.
His was not an easy life, but it is not told in a “woe is me” fashion.
Instead, humor is sprinkled through the pages as he recounts his adventures and mishaps.There is some language in this book—primarily, God’s name taken in vain (quite frequently).
I reread this book this week. Heartbreakingly lovely and a reminder to stay honest and fair - no matter what others do. It's been many years since I have read this. My copy was published in 1945, I think.
This book has been a favorite of mine for over a decade. I read it about once a year. This is one of the few books I own that have me laughing out loud consistently as I read. I have learned that I need to be careful where I read this book! He's sweet and honest and funny and kind. It's a wonderful book and following the colloquialism is half the fun.
This is the story of George Papashvily, a Georgian immigrant to the United States. His story begins at Ellis Island and continues through one experience after another. The story is told with a sense of humor as Mr. Papashvily discovers that America may not exactly be the land flowing with milk and honey. This is a fun, short read.
this book is amazing. If anybody forgets why it is great to live in this country just read this book. I found it a random on my book shelf.
walking through the corridor of the university library when i saw this old book, i took it and started reading just standing there...., two pages and..... it got me.
ჯორჯ პაპაშვილი, გიორგი პაპაშვილი, ქართველი მწერალი, რომლის მიხედვითაც გადაღებულმა ფილმმა მოიპოვა ოქროს გლობუსი, თან გადაიღო ვინ ?
სხვათაშორის ეს წიგნი, ალბათ პირველი მცდელობაა, იმის რომ ამერიკელმა ადამიანმა დაინახოს, ვინც საბჭოთა კავშირიდან მოდის ყველა რუსი არაა, დიახ, დღესაც გაიცნობთ ამერიკაში ადამიანებს ვინც თვლიან რომ საქართველო სლავური ქვეყანაა, ამაში ჩემი გამოცდილებითაც დავრწმუნდი.
წიგნი კი ასახავს ქართველი მიგრანტის ისტორიას რომელიც ჩადის ამერიკაში, ისე რომ არც ენა იცის არც არაფერი ამერიკის შესახებ, ის უბრალო დევნილია, აი რაც ამერიკაში ფეხის დადგმის მერე ხდება ეს უკვე ისტორიაა ...
მოკლედ გირჩევთ და ვუწევ ამ წიგნს რეკომენდაციას, ქართველი ოქროს გლობუსელის წიგნს (რა საამაყოდ ჟღერს )ისიც ფაქტია რომ წიგნის დაწერაში მონაწილეობა მიიღო მისმა მეუღლემ, რომელიც პროფესიით მწერალი გახლდათ, ჰელენ უეით პაპაშვილი (Helen Waite Papashvily)

Published in the 1940s. In short vivid vignettes the author recounts his experiences as a new immigrant from Georgia, and his assimilation into U.S. society. For good reason it was a best-seller in its day. Probably hard to find now, but the library still had the old edition. Heart-warming. Fast read.
Such a pleasurable read! It's about a Georgian immigrant and his story of adopting to life in America, funny and moving. Be aware, descriptions of Georgian food can make you crave a good shashlyk.
This made me giggle and smile and cry. A heart warming account of an immigrant's experience in the United States.
Delightful, humorous, thoughtful... thoroughly enjoyed it!
I'd give it 4.5. One of those books that is fun and easy to read. I even laughed out loud a time or three. A Georgian immigrant's story told with honesty and humor.
I hope this delightful little gem of a book gets reprinted soon. I got mine a library book sale.
A charming story of an optimistic immigrant learning to fit in in his new country and sometimes fitting his new country to the old one. The last two chapters are not to be missed.
I remember this book as funny and tear jerking.
One of the best books ever; heart warming, humorous, enjoyable for young and old.
This is the story of George Papashvily, a Georgian immigrant to the United States. His story begins at Ellis Island and continues through one experience after another. It's not all roses, but the writing reminds me of O'Toole's A Confederacy of Dunces. Definitely worth reading (and in my case keeping).
I very much enjoyed this little book, published in 1945. A Georgian (as in Russia) tells of his adventures as he came to America and found a place here. I laughed out loud sometimes, and grew to love this gentle and hard-working man. I also grew to love my country a bit more, too.
This book is so charming! There are so many little wonderful nuggets of truth in this little book that I will have to read it again. On a side-note... My great grandparents came to the US from Poland. As I read this book, I kept thinking about what their life must have been like.
This has got to be one of funniest, most inspiring, and uplifting books ever written. It will make you proud to be an american, and happy to be alive. If you can find a copy of this book, buy 4 more and give them to your friends and family.
I smiled all the way through this book.
It is a wonderful telling of the immigrant experience.Georgi Papashvily is from Georgia - not the state, the country.
And, how many of our current immigrants are experiencing this today?But, what sets Georgi apart from others is his cheerful optimism.
Eventually he marries and begins a family.During this process we see how an immigrant to the United States struggles.
It is a wonderful thing to read of people who love the United States and find opportunities regardless of their lack of skills.
We can learn about kindness and giving a hand up by reading of Georgi's experiences.
I ran across a 1945 fourth edition of this book, one with a Buy War Bonds appeal on the back of the dust jacket.
A delightful, lively, heartrending, funny, original, clean but not PC book, showcasing America, warts and all, from the perspective of an immigrant who lives life with zest, won't compromise on conscience, and readily laughs at himself.
The author and I aren't in agreement on a few things, but it's his life, and his book, and it's very well done - and provides a good illustration of how much we've lost in the way of manners, morals, and freedom, since it was written.
Very cute book about a Russian man who immigrates to America in the early part of the 1900's. I originally thought it was a novel, but it is a biography. There is really no story line except going through this man's assimilation into his new country. Some of the text is challenging to figure out due to his lack of proficiency in English, but it is also endearing and amusing. One of my favorite features of the book!
Starts out a little goofy but I was completely moved by the end. Comedic, moral, committed to community. Depression era Eastern European (Georgian) immigrant story. Highly recommended. I read a nice wartime edition.
This is a wonderful about a Georgian immigrant's experiences in America - learning the language, finding work, meeting people, and making a life for himself. It shows the degree of tenacity needed by those who chose to make this country their home around the turn of the century.
A delightful book, humorous and touching. I read it often forty years ago, and am pleased to find myself as charmed now as I was then. So often books you read as a child just aren't the same when you read them as an adult, but fortunately I've not outgrown this one. I highly recommend it.
Fun book. Great little vignettes about the lives of some immigrants. Makes you truly appreciate what you have. Not a book I would have ever read outside of the book club, but found it to be well worth my time.
What a wonderful book! It is witty from start to finish. This outlook on life can help through the hardships that happen in life ~ especially with the many changes that are bound to occur. It is also a way to see the importance of deep friendships. Enjoyed every page.
