https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/660269.The_Case_of_William_Smith
The Case of William Smith is the 13th novel in Patricia Wentworth’s Miss Silver Series.
When the elderly gentleman is injured, William Smith temporarily takes over the store.Katharine has found herself in a bit of a bind as funds from her trust fund have been slow in reaching her, and the last payment was also reduced.
William told him he would appreciate any more information on his identity that Detective Abbot can find.One possible source is Frank’s cousin Mildred who was also at the party with her then-fiancé.
I started reading this…My laundry didn’t get done… dirty dishes sat in the sink… we had grilled cheese sandwiches for dinner.I was a very happy camper… my husband, not so much.
But the picture of genteel life in wartime and post-war Britain is fascinating, and stronger than comes across in Agatha Christies of the same period, except perhaps 'A Murder is Announced'.
Duty matters - selfishness is also the mark of a murderer, and shouldering responsibility without grumbling the mark of a heroine.The books are written rather to a pattern, and you have to be VERY tired to read more than three or four one after the other - but they're comfy as old slippers, and if you haven't come across Wentworth, then do give her a go.
The Case of William Smith (Miss Silver #13), Patricia Wentworth
Excellent story and I raced through it in one evening.
(hide spoiler)].William Smith woke up in a German hospital during WWII with no memory of his previous life.
A young woman walks into the shop, looking for a job, and just like that, William Smith is in love.
The characters in this story are more interesting than in the last few Silver books.
No moist young ladies wilting around needing rescue.
No dithery old ladies being worked to death and under appreciated.
The old lady here is stalwart, the old man is doughty, Katherine and William are normal, and the villains are creepy.
When Wentworth is revealing that one of her Evil Women is Evil, at least half of the time it's by having their genteel accent slip to reveal the commoner within.Otherwise, this is a nice, satisfying tale of a man with a missing memory, and a whole series of accidents.
excellent plot - one of the best miss silver's enquiries I read up to now
A practically perfect cozy. I love the way the mystery focuses on the characters with Miss Silver as a delightful background character.
This may have been my favorite Miss Silver so far. It is an intricate, layered mystery revealed cleverly piece by piece without any secret information kept back from the reader and no special dramatic last minute appearance or confession needed to solve it tidily, problems I have encountered in other Miss Silver books. Of course I have always been oddly intrigued by stories involving amnesia so I was predisposed to like this one. And there is a lovely sweet romance as usual. Good stuff!
One of the best Miss Silver crime novels. A toy-making ex-WWII with no memory of his identity falls for the woman who takes a job in the workshop. Who is he? Who is she? Why are lives at risk? You need Sgt Abbott and Miss Maud Silver to answer that.Some really good twists, some forebodings are realised, others not. But which? Good understanding of character, people you care about. 'Good' villains. Solution neatly deduced from information winkled out.Great stuff!
The best of the Wentworth books I have read. I am a sucker for cool love stories and this is a cool love story.Not a bad mystery either, although the deal of a guy with amnesia is a bit well-worn.However this has LOVELY villains. Who can resist? And Miss Silver beats Miss Marple by several miles...IMHO
It is unusual for Wentworth (and for most of the other Golden Age novelists I've read) to show the reader a happily married couple from the inside, and I enjoyed it both because I found William & Katharine charming, and also for the little domestic details of upper-class marriages in the 1930s.
(Yes, I know it was set in the 40s, but the details seem very 30s despite the nods to the post-war setting.) (hide spoiler)]Last but not least, I thought the (view spoiler)[evening in which William recovers his memory and it come back in dream-like pieces and Katharine just gives him room and waits to see what happens (hide spoiler)] was very nicely written.
My favorite Miss Silver book ever!!!
He eventually gets hired at Tattlecombe's Toy Bazaar.
His boss begins to consider William a stand-in for his late grandson.
After one look, William (left temporarily in charge) is smitten and hires her.
Then, attempts on William's life begin.
Who would want to murder William?
Mr. Tattlecombe's family seems OK with his "adoption" or are they?
No one else really knows him or do they?Reading Miss Wentworth's books over seventy years after they were written it is interesting to see the class system sneak in just a little.
A prisoner of war comes out of a concentration camp with a new name, and a lack of memory of who he was before he was injured and captured.
He comes back to London, establishes beyond a shadow of a doubt that he is not the man whose dog tags he was wearing.
He has a skill making wooden toys, and gets a job with a toymaker in London.
And one day a young woman walks in and asks for a job - and he falls in love.
By the end, there are two definite murders and one suicide, and the young man's memory is restored - and it is all utterly satisfying.
When an electronic Patricia Wentworth became available for little money, I snapped it up. I read her novels in the 70s (purchased at used bookstores) and loved them. Miss Silver is not quite Jane Marple, but also not Hercule Poirot (both of whom I love for different reasons). She is her own person. And this is a fine story that treats some of the same issues as the Charles Todd books — post war stresses on society and individuals. Very moving.
Patricia Wentworth is a writer of crime novels featuring an Edwardian-style governess turned professional detective called Miss Silver who is a little like Agatha Christie's Miss Jane Marple. There is always a love interest as well. Her books are comforting hot water bottle fiction of a bygone age - early 20th Century Britain - always easy to read, and usually quickly forgettable. But generally with a good mix of characters.This story of this book is a little less credible than her others.
Really, really good. This was really readable, really pacey and that was before the completely unexpected twists popped up. I've only read a couple of Patricia Wentworth's books (the only other Miss Silver that I've read is actually the one immediately after this one in the series bizarrely) but I've got more waiting and I'm fairly sure I'll be getting to them sooner rather than later now.
Nice cozy mystery. I hadn't read any Miss Silver books. Not really my cup of tea exactly but this one had an interesting plot invloving a man who lost his memory in a WW2 concentration camp and came back to England and made a new life. Eventually he happens by chance to encounter people he knew in the previoius life and winds up falling in love with the same woman as before. Then his meomory is restored while he deals with a plot on his life.
A Miss Silver mystery, set after WWII, with (you guessed it) star-crossed lovers, scheming relatives, etc. Lots of murder attempts (they are so seldom successful in a Miss Silver mystery, but oh-so-many attempts). Mr. Smith has lost his memory after a war-related injury, but he is adapting nicely, making very personable wooden toys that sell like hotcakes. Miss Silver knits.
What a charming little mystery!! A young man loses his memory in WWI. A family business in on the brink of ruin. Strange accidents happen. Meet Miss Silver, a former governess turned detective who calls herself a enquiry agent.
Excellent Another very fine and satisfying tale with Miss Silver. Lots of intertwined plots and motives. I won't give anything away but I was still half guessing right up to the final chapter. Miss Silver is the most amazingly observer since Sherlock Holmes.
Very enjoyable
This is the 13th Miss Silver mystery I have read and my absolute favorite!
A good cozy mystery. I will be reading more in this Miss Silver series.
One of my favorites of series! Lots of suspects & Miss Silver early in the book!
My favourite by this author.
A 3.5
3.5 starsLiked this one. Good twists, mystery. Enjoyed the time period. Wentworth's Miss Silver is almost on a par with Christie's Miss Marple!
A favorite of mine. The names of the animal toys are charming, and the eccentric characters are amusing.
Miss Silver arrives quite late on the scene of this intriguing mystery. This is a romance with amnesia and a clever twist thrown in. Very good!
