https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/456496.What_Do_You_Say_After_You_Say_Hello_
And on the front of the tombstone whey will carve: 'Gone to rest with his forebears,' and on the back it will say: 'I lived a good life, and never took any chances.'"They say that in the next century, children will be grown in bottles, according to specifications laid down by the state and the parents, and there they will be genetically programed.
A somewhat misleading title as the book won't give any helpful tips to change a conversation for the better. The underlying theory however is interesting: Right from the start we have an unconscious belief of life and ourselves which controls every bit of our life and thus also influences the way we talk to other people. The typical "examples" however could be shortened. Berne's book "Games people play" is far better in analyzing the way people talk with each other.
Eric Berne's best book, I feel.
Berne became the darling of social workers and pop-psychologists, and I suspect was correspondingly disliked by real psychologists.
Nevertheless, I have a lot of time for him.
In particular, his belief that human beings contain within them a Parent, Child and Adult, and use these to build their relations with others and their understanding of themselves is not at all daft.
For example, his views are consonant with those of G H Mead, the founder of Social Psychology.
I suspect he is disliked because he is readable!
This is a great sin in some circles.
This is basically a psychology textbook telling you why people do what they do and what in their lives made them decide they had to make the choices they made. Extremely enlightening and interesting, if not a little outdated. There are also some very nice bedtime stories in this book.
It is funny to consider that many of us live our lives such that they may resemble classic fairytales -though not necessarily with happy endings. This, while it isn't the point of the book, was a fun theme that ran through it. Fun psychology.
The most brilliant book ever written. I've read it so many times. Demystifies life. Not a bad achievement if you ask me.
I liked the descriptions of transactional analysis. Author did good job of using characters from well known stories (i.e., Cinderella) as examples of analysis with his methodology. His approach in writing seems suggestive rather than conclusive, which is appropriate. Also he uses a martian perspective to explain an objective view of stories to explain his approach of critiquing situations and looking deeper to show how scripts intertwine for a group. I enjoyed that.
Really changes everything I think about myself and where I'm headed. Will make you wonder why certain interactions go the ways they do. It has the potential to look deeply into who you are, identify what mistakes you make and why you make yourself do them. Book can be scary, must be necessary. Berne goes into interesting territories, but is able to pull you out for a breather with a 70's era non-pc zinger from time to time.
I read Games People Play before this, and am a fan of it.
Though the author very defensively reminds us that he is all for free will and individual action, the book puts a contrary point of view across, especially with the checklist presented for getting a fair idea of a person's script.Nonetheless, the book gives valuable information on how our early experiences pretty much shape up how we respond to different situations when we grow up.
Berne's satirical yet very truthful digs at people's justification for their actions are interesting.
An easy & engaging layperson's guide to transactional analysis. This book was easier to read than 'Games People Play'. The constructs of Parent-Adult-Child are immensely useful in understanding conversations & relationships.
Warning: this book can shake your (un)happy life. Finally, a psychology book that is not full of BS. Even though it was written in the fifties the content is very current, full of ironic jokes. After reading Games people play I was thirsty for more info in the transactional analysis.In this book, you will learn more about parental programming, life scripts, games... and a lot about yourself and people around you. Enjoy!
Berne was the founder of Transactional Analysis and as such this is a very important work. However I found it hard going at times, and more recent writing summarising his work is a lot more concise and readable.
Who says I'm going to say hello? Where are the guidebooks for the hermits? You know, with chapters like "How to weave sackcloth", or "When to harvest locust beans"?
A continuation of theory of TA's to Script Analysis - but you wonder if the theory holds good in practical life
One of the best pshychology books I've read. It doesn't matter whether or not you are familiar with concepts like transactional analysis or psyhcoanalysis, this book provides answers to some important questions. It helped me find meaning behind my behavioral patterns. Sometimes, the temptation of overdiagnosing myself was strong, though.

Очень хорошая книга. Она мне понравилась даже больше чем книга автора "Люди, которые играют в игры".Автор очень просто и доступно объясняет сложные психологические концепции. Берн поднимает в этой книге столь важные темы как человеческую судьбу, её формирование, изменение, и выход из её ловушек. Также описано множество ошибок при воспитании детей, неосознанного и осознанного формирования их жизненных сценариев и судеб. Конечно же есть и много полезных советов от автора.Кто желает вовремя осознать свою судьбу и исправить её на этот раз по своему желанию рекомендую данную книгу даже очень!
Very interesting. The implications are frightening. Will need to read more up to date data to make a determination.
Wow, quite a different perspective. We all have our life run by our scripts made as a small child. To understand it better, I needed to re-read it at times.
I bought five more books as gifts to family and friends. This is one of those rare books that should make everyone's must read list.
more TA
lengthy/.//however informative.
Just as remarkable as Games People Play, the only wrong thing about it is the title that says nothing about what's going on here.
Despite the fact this book makes you feel heavy in your chest at times, it is written in a very entertaining way, it is even kind of magical.
This book will definitely make you re-think your choices you've made in your life and consider how much of those were truly yours.
I'd recommend this book (together with Games People Play) to everyone who has ever been thinking that something is not OK with the way they live.
Since I studied Business, I don't possess a lot of knowledge on Psychology and its derivations; hence this book was eye-opening for me. I really liked Dr. Berne's way of explaining his theory, its concepts, and applications. I truly believe that everyone should read this book, regardless if they are into transactional analysis or not."What Do You Say After You Say Hello?" broaded my understanding of human behavior. With such simple explanations and examples, it is very easy to recognize the different patterns in our social interactions.
Misleading title but still a worthwhile read. I must admit that this was a little over my head. Normally I find Dr. Berne's euphemisms and colloquialisms to be kids kinda fun but this time they left me often wondering what he was saying. I'll have to retread this one a couple more times.
Title, title and once more title :-) its not about communication. Book is written in quite difficult manner, could be interesting for readers who are very loved in psychology and have good background.
A rather in depth and comprehensive analysis of behaviour and what makes us all tick. Very academic read, but very informative. Can't help subconsciously analysing my friends and my own life script now.
A classic for insight into human interactions.
It's extremely thought provoking and a good start to improving yourself if you have a base knowledge of the things discussed in the book.
===27-Apr-2018===6 Stars.34 pages A4 of notes from the book.
