https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/210435.Waiting_for_the_Mahatma
Despite being a devoted follower of Gandhi, Sriram understands very little of Gandhi's philosophy.
And there must have been little to interest a villager in national politics, leave alone abstracts concepts like independence or nonviolence.
Sriram is in it mostly for his own selfish interest like most young volunteers - which in this case happens to be his love for Bharti, a young girl full of patriotism who waits on Gandhi.
While everyone seems to like him, very few actually seem to understood his philosophy.
The very names of two main characters, Bharti and Sriram being Gandhi's two obsessions.
But even after finishing the book i am not sure whether Sriram really did find his aim in life or, what all he did and went through was it just because he had no other choice?
Because he was such a fickle minded and complicated character that it was difficult to say what and how he would think in a particular situation.
Having said that i really enjoyed reading this book and simultaneously got frustrated with Sriram and found myself helpless in some situation.
I think that explains the beauty of R.K.Narayan’s writing.
4+The usual suspect of a very promising start.
Only this time the latter half is also good.Many similarities with his other works.
throwing in a dash of Historical Fiction.Highly recommended.
Not a review, this one, my little homage to a novel I found original and beautiful.I remember I read it when I was in my mid twenties, on a train from Milan to that wonderful city that us Copenhagen.
I say it in inverted commas because what I mean by it is not any sorcery, but that this novel, I strongly believe, has a soul.
And what did I expect from a novel on the Great Soul.
What better way to talk about Mahatmaji than by breathing a bit of his immense soul into the words of the novel?
Shashi Tharoor in his book Bookless in Baghdad wrote about the simplicity of Narayan's writing.
He called R.K. a man who never wanted to learn and lived a negligent life.
He wanted his writing to be for the mango people and that's why all his stories are set in the rural.
His story is woven with the emotions of a man with simple desires and even simpler tastes.
This is a simple story from the kitty of the Narayan.
The pleasure the reader gets is in the way the man's life and characters slowly unfolds with the story.
Waiting for Mahatma centers on a young man named Sriram who lives with his grandmother.
He is in love with and wants to marry a young woman who is involved with Mahatma Gandhi's movement to achieve Indian independence and this draws him into becoming active himself.Big news comes to Malgudi.
It is decided that Ghandi will stay in the mansion of the wealthiest man in Malgudi.
It was a bit amazing and shocking when Ghandi appears as a character in the novel.
Narayan brings cosmic events down to the streets and homes of Malgudi in a brilliant and loving fashion.
A compassionate, simple love story set during the times of the Indian independence. A refreshing and quick read, Waiting for the Mahatma kept me smiling with many things I could relate - especially about 'Granny' and 'Bhrathi'. R.K. Narayan's writing and sense of style may not delight many, but there is some unexplainable magnetic pull about the book that wants you to go on. Some parts do feel a tad childish, and cry out for better story-telling, but the book is an overall good read.
The whole absurdity of his struggle for India's freedom is built around his sole aim to end up with Bharathi, and everything he does is guided only towards that end.RKN stays clear of the politics of the time, concentrating on the common man and Sriram's struggles with himself as he's pushed to become someone else to get Bharathi.
In a way, Gandhi gets Malgudi'ed, reduced to being human while being seen through the eyes of the common man - Sriram.
It is very simple and easy to follow, it is written in a very plain style, but Narayan includes a lot of Indian vocabulary mostly related to food, Indian cultural figures and untranslatable concepts –such as 'ahimsa', which I personally loved– and though it forces you to make a little research or go to the end of the book to check the glossary, I think it gives the whole work a sense of authenticity.
There are a lot of Gandhi related books but the treatment of the Mahatma is that of a historical figure usually romanticized or idealized.
R.K Narayan takes us to a place called Malgudi which is a fictional town, familiar to readers of his stories.This is a love story which takes place at the time when Mahatma Gandhi was one of the key players in leading India's struggle for freedom.
He loved Bharati so much that the thought that he would see her one day at the end of all these ordeals and that they would be united after receiving Bapu's blessings, made him live a solitary life and carry out disruptionist acts .
The story has a bitter ending with the assassination of Mahatma Gandhi and a successful ending with Sriram and Bharati having received Bapu's blessings to get married.
An amazing insight into Indian freedom movement through a tale of love. A book where you would love and hate to read the ending.
While I enjoyed this book, and appreciate the concept of an Indian story told in English, I wasn't moved that much.
The story centers on a boy named Sriram, who has fallen in love with a girl, Bharati.
But she won't agree to be with him until they receive Mahatma Ghandi's blessing.
Then Ghandi comes to town, bringing with him a group of "volunteers," including Bharati.
Sriram is quickly taken by her, and agrees to join Ghandi's camp and dedicate himself to a new life.
Political turmoil falls upon India, as they are taken over by the English.
He comes out with a story which depicts another side of our freedom struggle movement and its impact on the lives of numerous Indian people.The best aspect of this novel is the simplicity of we the Indians prior to gaining independence.
The long and hard fought freedom struggle which alters the lives of different people like Sriram(main protagonist) makes one feel about the numerous citizens who were forced to abandon their families for their country.
And the magic of our "Mahatma" has been aptly captured here so read it just to get a real feel through Narayan's common man.
Highly humorous and hilarious. The book treats "Mahatma" very much differently from the contemporary novels, as "character" not a symbol. The life of the lazy, wealthy Sriram is interesting in the sense, he is a rare choice for being a protagonist - Gandhi Follower(?) in a novel of the times. One among the best of RK Narayan.
This is one of those book that one can cherish all there life once he or she has read it.The emotions in this book are so grounded in a period of time,so honest and innocent that you feel like transported to that era,those events.
Definitely one of my favorite books. Simple prose and subtle humor. A book that is as likely to induce a gentle smile as a silent tear.
an innocent and touching love story proffered with great humour and realism
An interesting story that revolves around days of freedom movement. Climax is really interesting.
‘Waiting for Mahatama’ is interesting novel that explores the human condition and one may find the humour, sad, joy anxious and principles in the journey of Sriram’s life.
Sriram who lives aimlessly in leisure and suddenly his life is out of control and comfort zone when he is allured to simplicity and authenticity in Bharti.
He follows Gandhiji but his pursuits are self interested and the work for cause makes him feel respected and worthy.One feels the affection in Narayan’s world towards Gandhiji which he rightfully deserves.
His compassion for another and for marginalized makes one search their own souls and ask pertinent questions in life.
But then again, Narayan has often chosen difficult subjects, what with infidelity in the Guide and  misplaced patriotism  in this particular novel.You can almost imagine Sri Ram as a walking talking entity in today's political scenario.
Sri Ram would be a man-boy who is busy updating his status on Facebook from 'At the movies' to 'having lunch at KFC with mah buddiez' and wondering whether he should buy an iPhone 6 or the latest Nexus.
Oh yes.In the book, Sri Ram is not patriotic.
He is unconcerned with the freedom struggle that is sweeping the nation, until he sets his eyes on Bharati who works with Mahatma Gandhi.
After couple of years he meets a beautiful girl – Bharati – who is seeking for donation and trying to arrange the event for welcoming Mahatma Gandhi.
How we can be a responsible citizen and what are our responsibilities?The title of the novel might give you an impression that story is all about Gandhi but no, the story is about the young Sriram who changes – or I should correct and say; grows- from materialism to a spiritualism; a man of values.
However instead of being apathetic about everything the main character cares more for Bharati than for anything else; he finally has found some direction in his life in the form of following Bharati in whatever she is doing, which just happens to be doing the work of Gandhi and spreading the non-violent freedom movement.
It was interesting to see how different characters in the book responded to the non-violent movement; some didn't care whether Britain left or not, some were more appalled by Gandhi's acceptance of untouchables than by anything else, and others embraced it excessively and reverted to extreme measures not sanctioned by Gandhi in order to deter the British.
The book starts pretty normal with granny giving the responsibility to sriram for his money but things change when bharati enters the scene .
He joins the independence movement to woo Bharati even if he himself is not motivated/interested enough.
The rest of the story follows his life as he contributes his part in the independence movement however small it seems.
It tends to drag in the middle yet I wish it was longer.This is a simple love story of 'one' among those thousands who thronged behind great leaders and were the ultimate force behind the success of independence movement during the turbulent times.
My first book this year and what a book to start with...a beautiful coming-of-age romantic drama set in 1940s in Malgudi, when India is struggling for independence a young boy Sriram falls in love with a girl but not any normal girl, a girl fighting for independence with the Mahatma. And then starts his persuit for life and love. As the story is set in RK Narayan's Malgudi, so is filled with his elements of common man's humour and agony. A beautiful story, I wish Chetan Bhagat and Co. could create something like this.
A simple idyllic romance unfurling in the midst of a momentous political scene. Possibly the most nationalistic of R.K. Narayan's works. The author has set the conflict of emotions, which is a recurring motif in his works, against the backdrop of the Indian struggle for freedom. The character of Mahatma in the novel can easily be seen as the very human conscience, whose guidance we continuously refuse.
A well crafted story by one of my favourite writers, R.K. Narayan. Patriotism and romance are balanced effectively in this simple, yet elegant, story where Gandhi's ideals are injected in small doses. It was like viewing major historical events like the Indo-Pak partition, independence and Gandhi's assasination through the eyes of the young characters of the story. A very simple story but a good read!
A true mark of R.K.Narayan Splendid NarrationThe way he carried the love story before Independence of India was mesmerizingThe Principle of M.K.Gandhi and his followersTHE QUIT INDIA PROTESTS,life in Prison before freedom was well narratedSriram's effection and love towards Grandmother and her lady love Bharati was closely related and mixed up with gentle emotions of human life was well described
Sriram is a young man who lives with his grandmother and keeps daydreaming about something bigger than his life. He criticises everything and everyone until he sees Bharati for the first time. She’s a follower of Gandhi, and Sriram will be involved in the history of India. The novel was written in 1955 but it’s still fresh.http://www.developingreport.com/Revie...
RK Narayan is best known for his work based on the quaint South Indian town of Malgudi. In ‘Waiting for the Mahatma’, he manages to combine the magic of Malgudi with the heady atmosphere of the Indian freedom movement and what results is a truly novel novel (pun intended). Read the full review here: http://www.indiabookstore.net/bookish...
RKN is perhaps one of the finest Indian writers. In this novel, he has mixed fiction as well as non-fiction to such an extent that it becomes almost impossible to tell whether this story is true or a work of RKN's imagination.The end will really shock you... A very good romance novel.. worth a read.
