https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/149572.The_Odessa_File
”Had he asked, he would have learned that of the crimes against humanity committed on the German side between 1933 and 1945, probably 95 percent can accurately be laid at the door of the SS. Of these, probably 80 to 90 percent can be attributed to two departments within the SS. These were the Reich Security Main Office and the Reich Economic Administration Main Office.” Waffen SS hat insignia.President John F. Kennedy has just been assassinated, and Peter Miller, ace reporter, finds himself foll
If not for pulling over to hear the radio broadcast about Kennedy, he would not have seen the ambulance, or heard of Salomon Tauber or Eduard Roschmann, and forty months later the republic of Israel would probably have ceased to exist.”The fickleness of fate is always interesting to contemplate.
If Peter had been too tired or just wanted to go home to explore the bountiful curves of his stripper girlfriend, he would have never read the diary of Salomon Tauber or discovered something more motivating than just a good story to send him on a deadly, dangerous search for an SS commander named Eduard Roschmann, otherwise known as The Butcher of Riga.
The Odessa File – The NovelPublished in 1972, The Odessa File describes the story of ‘Peter Miller’, a fictitious German reporter and his quest in tracking down ‘Eduard Roschmann’ - the commandant of the Riga ghetto during 1943 and who was responsible for numerous murders and other atrocities – who had managed to escape from Germany in 1945 after the war.
***5 STAR STORY ELEMENT ROLL CALL***Nazis........"Here".......  International Intrigue........"Present"....... Secret Societies.........."Here".......... Nazi Hunters/Israeli Mossad.........."Here, Sir"..........  Interesting Plot.........."Present".......... Compelling Main Character.........Uh, Compelling Main Character......Anyone.......Main Character we care about......SHIT..... Excitement and Suspense.........hello....Excitement, Suspense.....Anyone.....has anyone seen any hint of excitemen
A well-written political thriller involving the hunting down of a Nazi war criminal and a worldwide secret organization of former SS members trying to reclaim power...what exactly is not to love?
The second plot thread involves ODESSA trying to assist Egypt (in the build up to the Six-Day War ) in creating rockets that can be used to destroy Israel).
Throughout the story, we are given extensive background (through the diary) of the atrocities committed by Roschmann and his eventual escape at the end of World War II (the book is worth reading for this alone as the experiences documented here are tragic and heart-breaking but very, very authentic).
The infamous Nazi organization ODESSA, internationally famous for its war aids after the Second Worl

What is chilling about the Holocaust is the cold precision with which the SS and Gestapo hunted and rounded up the Jews and other ‘undesirables’ and murdered them or in their words, 'exterminated them' as one would vermin and other pests .
A holocaust victim once asked unable to comprehend the enormity of what had happened to his family, friends, neighbours “Where was God?” And he got a reply “Where was Man?”Just today, my friend Lilo wrote:'But don't forget: Not all Germans were Nazis.
Even I as a kid was somewhat surprised while playing with German kids when I was younger about the collective guilt that was still carried by the German people (this was the early seventies).We meet some once famous people like Simon Wiesenthal who explain about the SS excesses and how they organised to disappear before the war was over and how the Wehrmacht was used to win time at the losing end of the war for the SS to lose themselves sometimes even in plain sight.This thriller set in a post WWII Germany resembles a nightmare of the variety of sheer unbelievably reality.

Really riveting stuff.So where 'The Day of the Jackal' took a historical counterfactual with events immediately after an attempted assassination of French president Charles De Gaulle 'The Odessa File' decides to follow a counterfactual of the existence of an international organization, Odessa, dedicated to protecting and enriching former Nazi SS members.
Thus starts a hunt for Odessa that has significant repercussions on the international stage all nicely folded into the flow of actual history.What I really enjoyed about this book is how every character had their own motivations and pursued them.
Hunting Nazis, particularly SS Nazis, still had some cachet when "The Odessa File" was written in 1972 and the deeds of famous Nazi hunter, Simon Wiesenthal, who had aided the Mossad division of the Israeli Secret Service in identifying and capturing Adolph Eichmann only twelve years earlier, were in the news quite regularly.I read "The Odessa File" years ago, in the seventies, after reading "Day of the Jackal".
Remembering recently that I had enjoyed "The Odessa File", I decided to read it again.
It was an ok second read, but I think maybe my memories of films I saw, books I read, parties I attended, forty and fifty years ago have dimmed somewhat, but at least I still have them!
Well, I’m glad I stuck with this book through the first 100 pages or so.
But in doing this, it takes a long time to get our hero involved enough in the story to reach his goal.
And while establishing this narrative foundation is at times tedious, it ultimately pays off in a fun and detailed manhunt that goes on for the rest of the novel.
Forsythe, again, presents a great and compelling thriller, and the pages turn pretty quickly once things get going.
After reading a journal left by a Jew who comitted suicide, young journalist Peter Miller is determined to infiltrate the organization and find one man - Eduard Roschmann, "the butcher of Riga".
The twists are predictable; the interesting information about the Odessa is buried in a plot that's relatively slow-moving and arrives at a finale where the protagonist's luck is almost of miraculous quality.Still, it's a good yarn, and the fact that the real Eduardo Roschmann was brought to public attention because of it and had to flee to Paraguay makes it even better.
I read first time in January 1987 it was a very good read I like this author.
I will be reading a few more books of this author that I have not read.
I re-read this book now.
It is a very well researched book more facts with little fiction.
The book is about holocaust when thousands of Jews were killed and some Germans too.
The author narrative is great and keeps the suspense to the end.
This book is worth giving the readers time and I personally assure anyone who wants to read it you will not be bored.
When a young German journalist comes across a diary written by a deceased elderly Jewish man, he is overwhelmed by the brutality described inside it. He determines to track down "the butcher of Riga"-- a notorious Nazi responsible for thousands of deaths during World War II. His quest leads him to a sinister organization named Odessa. Taut, well written and suspenseful, this book is hard to put down.
Fast-paced thriller about a reporter finding evidence of SS officers hiding in post-war Germany. The author did alot of research into that time period, and reading about it was very interesting. The sections about the reporter and his stripper girlfriend weren't that well-written, but were thankfully brief. A quick and thrilling read.
I have seen the film a few times and feel that the film is better than the book which is strange as its usually the other way round. It didn't hold the suspense that the film had.
There was a hesitance to read it for a long time (obviously), and I’m not really sure why.
The Day of the Jackal, the original directed by Fred Zinnemann, is probably one of the best espionage/political thriller movies of all time, and I had the great pleasure of seeing it many times over during a period when film was front-and-center in my life, so I’ll put some of Forsyth’s other novels in line before that one, but it’s always great when one finally discovers such a great thriller writer, even if it did take several decades.
There is nothing wrong with being given the information we receive in this book – it’s eye-opening and more people should give it a read for this very reason – but I felt as though this meant the actual story lost so much momentum.
Moreover, I felt as though in some cases I was being told things that were pretty obvious to me.
In short, there was not a very good matchup between the two stories being told.I also felt as though the characters were very one dimensional.
I enjoyed that much of this thriller is spent on the German autobahns following the hero driving his 1960 Jaguar XK150 S at speeds over 100 mph.
That car had about 250 HP, stiff peformance suspension, and a timeless design.
He drove everywhere with it, through dark forests, blizzards, and to most of the major German cities.
What fun it must be to do this!
I have been encouraged finally to take a trip there and do the same...but without the snow.On the negative side, Forsyth's second best known novel is a pedantic, cold, fictionalized historical "essay" that suffers from a lack of distinction between fact and invention.
I was disappointed with the story...but the driving was great!
Not your typical guilt trip about that horrendous chapter in historyand the amazing twist at the end, proved that. Superb and refreshing. An ending that Fatherland by Robert Harris lacked, thus made that book's plot a little simplistic. But this ?Still amazed by it.Bravo.
Fredrick Forsyth sets out a wonderful human story with wonderful drawn characters. This has some great twists and turns and the writing is top quality. Once you start reading this great book you get hooked straight away, needing to find out answers like the main character does. This is a great thriller from a top writer.
Wow someone just recommended this to me and it reminded me that I read it during High School for one of my classes. Good book if I remember correctly. Few Nazis, some conspiracies etc. Not Forsyth's best but a good one.
I love holocaust novels; partly because they are so emotional to me and also because the stories are so heroic.
It is a diary, a testament from the dead man, a German Jew named Salomon Tauber, who had been transported to Riga in the summer of 1941 and placed in the Jewish ghetto established there by the Germans and run by the SS in the person of Captain (Hauptsturmführer) Eduard Roschmann [a real historical figure].
Eventually, with the help of Israeli agents, Miller agrees to try to infiltrate Odessa by assuming the identity of an SS officer whose war crimes were recently brought to light, necessitating that he go on the run.
Berawal dari sebuah buku harian seorang tua keturunan Yahudi yang bunuh diri, hidup Peter Miller--seorang wartawan, tiba-tiba saja berubah.
Ia jadi terobsesi untuk menemukan Eduard Roschmann, seorang mantan SS yang dulu jadi komandan kamp konsentrasi Nazi di Riga.
Si pemilik diary adalah korban holocaust yang berhasil keluar dengan selamat, lalu menulis semua tentang Si Jagal dari Riga, agar suatu hari bisa menyeretnya ke pengadilan.Dalam penyelidikannya, Miller mengetahui bahwa para mantan SS dilindungi oleh organisasi yang bernama Odessa.
Miller lalu ditawari untuk menyusup ke dalam tubuh Odessa untuk menemukan Roschmann.Tampaknya Miller bekerja seorang diri memenuhi ambisi pribadi pula, tanpa ia ketahui ada banyak konspirasi dan intrik yang terjadi di belakangnya.
I don't like the storytelling structure: Something happens, and then we get a huge historical background story. A new chapter starts, something else happens, and then we get another huge info dump. If you can put up with this type of structure you will probably like it, but it's too tedious for me. I'm reading more about the story than I'm reading of the story. It's too bad, because the blurb makes it sound so much more interesting than it is.
A German reporter in the 60's gets a lead on German concentration camp officers who have escaped detection, many of whom hold prominent industrial and political positions. For personal reasons, he tracks them down. It is a thriller.
This was a Spy Espionage story. I liked that it tangled with WWII Nazi soldiers without being about the war. This one started out a little slow. It also had a lot of names, organizations, acronyms, etc., that I had to get a handle on. Once the mystery began, I was in. I liked the methodical way the plot was drawn out. It gained a nice pace and there was always something happening. So 4 stars.
A great investigative romp through the German countryside in a very compelling and charming era. As always with Forsyth the depth of research and attention to detail is key.Some dark moments without being self indulgent. The gradual rise in tension from start to finish is managed so carefully that you don't realise you're on the edge of your seat until almost toppling off.
Nevertheless, this book is a fine example of how good an adventure book can be.The characters are well constructed and even have the conflictions that one would expect of someone in extraordinary circumstances.
Forsyth magically reveals these people as those lacking in certain areas, properly blind to things, but then this was a way of life we don't want to understand, lest our enlightenment of modernism come to a screeching halt.
Perhaps in a few more years we will discover that our own blind adherence to greed has taken western civilization into the gutter.
