https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/143126.The_13_Clocks
It has, as one ogre who really gets on my nerves would say, many layers, just like an onion does.This is better than "Le Petit Prince"; more in tune with my (if I do have any; I guess I know that I do) American proclivities, than that other Children's night-time story.
Its sole mistake is not reserving more time for the reader to take in the freshness & experience the whimsy that borders on that singular Wonderlandesque feeling people who like the idea of Lewis Carroll's Alice, though not the haphazard & random stories themselves, wish they possessed.
click clack, he has a knackhis talent's in his wordsglips and glops, his story popseerie and absurdfrip frap, a pretty death capfairy tales must be darksnip and snart, and as for the artit's vivid yet quite starktick tack, the prince comes backbut will it all end well?mips and mopes, just as I'd hopedThe 13 Clocks was swell!
I only heard of the book because Neil Gaiman wrote an introduction (I think) to a new edition in which he highly praises "13 Clocks".
He would say to a suitor, "What is the difference in the length of my legs?" and if the youth replied, "Why, one is shorter than the other," the Duke would run him through with the sword he carried in his swordcane and feed him to the geese.
Others had been slain for offenses equally trivial; trampling the Duke's camllias, failing to praise his wines, staring too long at his gloves, gazing too long at his niece.
I enjoy whimsy and fairy tales, but The 13 Clocks falls short in its attempt to blend the two. I first learned of it in a discussion of Peter Beagle's The Last Unicorn, when it was reported as similar in style and tone. Unfortunately, I found it a distinctly inferior tale, the vending machine version of a homemade chocolate chip cookie.More on why I awarded my unfavorable 2 stars at:http://clsiewert.wordpress.com/2014/0...andhttp://carols.booklikes.com/post/8097...
Golux brings Prince Zorn of Zorna to a woman called Hangga whose tears turn magically to precious gems.The plot seems like an outright fairy tale, right?
There are also some scenes that can be disturbing to children like the feeding of the human flesh to the geese, the kidnapping of Saralinda and the disappearance of the Duke at the end of the story can give a child a nightmare if there is no comforting adult to tell or explain the story to a small child.As a grown up, though, I really enjoyed reading this book.
"Once upon a time, in a gloomy castle on a lonely hill, where there were thirteen clocks that wouldn't go, there lived a cold, aggressive Duke, and his niece, the Princess Saralinda..."This was a fast and fun romp.
Children will love the story, and adults will enjoy the more sophisticated humor and word play.
If you know anything about James Thurber, (or maybe even if you don't), you'll appreciate how much fun he had writing this story.
In the Foreword he explains that he wrote The Thirteen Clocks when he was supposed to be working on another book.
I've read this several times and want to again, after seeing that Neil Gaiman and I actually agree on this tight masterpiece of word-play and adventure and satire.... (In case you don't know, I want to like Gaiman's work, but I don't.)
This was a wonderful, farcical Children's fairy tale that I would never have come across had it not been on Boxall's 1001 Books to Read Before You Die list.
How we missed this one is beyond me, I feel as though I've short-changed them.I'm not exactly sure why the book was on this particular list, but I enjoyed it nonetheless and will doubtless read it again.
To rate it is difficult, what do I compare it to, other children's books, most of which I've forgotten, or just on its own?
A wonderful introduction by Neil Gaiman and and an interesting foreword by the author got me excited to read this book, but I admired it more than I enjoyed it.
While I did smile and even chuckle at times, it just wasn’t my cup of tea.
It was just okay for me, though I did like it well enough.
I’m very aware that this may simply not have been the right book at the right time, for me.
I think one issue is that I often don’t like fairy tales.
I thought I’d like this one though, and I did.
I’m just not wild about it.
Second Thurber I read in my life, and this time I loved the book way more than Walter Mitty, the first of his stories I read. This is a very weird fairy tale-esque Fantasy story, with an absurd plotline that's meant to make you laugh, and writing that's very convoluted and full of wordplay and silly rhymes. Good for a quick read when one's in the mood for a bit of unpretentious humour.
For here, one can find many things which America had made famous:1.Kidnapping - the Princess Saralinda wasn't really the Duke's niece.
Marriage based merely on lust - Prince Zorn and Princess Saralinda, without any time to even talk, hang out, go out on a date or get to know each other --and just because they're both good-looking--marched immediately off to get married;5.
The message is the triumph of vice over vice.First published in 1950, I am sure none of the American kids who grew up with this has turned up to be a saint.
The Golux pretty much spoon-fed him everything he should do, and helped him figure everything out.I'm not so sure that this was a prince worthy enough to win the hand of Saralinda.
Or do I just hate traditional fairy tales where the prince rescues the princess (even though he's a total dumbass?)Should I have read something else by Thurber before this?I did understand and appreciate the wordplay in the book, but that was about it.
I mean, I could probably have rescued the princess myself with the Golux by my side.That prince dude bugged me.
I loved poetry, folk and rock and didn't read books.
I looked things up and read the funny papers.
She took on my cutural development as a project and gave me Thirteen Clocks.I enjoyed the pictures and set it aside.
Then one night while I was building a color television set, she fixed herself a martini, turned off my music, picked up the book and read it aloud.
Guggle to zatch.I don't know how many times I have read it -- to myself and aloud to others.
I always enjoy it.
The next book on her list was The Little Prince.
I read this in about an hour, which is not the way to do it. It needs to be read aloud, preferably to a small child, the lyrical, whimsical language savored. Which is why I now want to acquire a copy, so one day I can do just that. I'd try reading it aloud to the cats right now, but I doubt they'd appreciate it.
Although it's ostensibly about an evil Duke who keeps his niece, the Princess Saralinda locked in his cold dark castle, where time has been stopped by his own sword, and feeds her potential suitors to his geese, I don't recommend it as a bedtime story to your six-year-old unless you want them to turn out like me.
"Hark hark, the dogs do bark, the beggars are coming to town,Some in rags and some in tags and some in velvet gowns.Hark hark the dogs to bark, the duke is fond of kittens,he likes to take their insides out and use their fur for mittens."(from memory)
In fact, I'm sure he illustrated at least a handful of those very books I remember from my visits to Grandma and Grandad's; the bio in the back of The Thirteen Clocks says he illustrated nearly 100 in his career.The writing of James Thurber also makes me think of other fifty and sixty year old children's books I've read, because the story bounces along from one non sequitur or deus ex machina to another in a completely carefree manner, not concerned so much with rhyme and reason as it is with being fun and adventuresome.
But the fussiness and the precise, chiseled writing focuses attention on it, and the tale bored me to tears.For a book which uses a similar idea, but works tremendously, Eleanor Estes's The Witch Family uses the same mechanics of made-up words and surreal situations, but makes it work with memorable characters, no sense of irony or tongue in cheek whatsoever, and evocative settings and plot as well as language.
Or if you want how to make a tale that works without it, The Wolves of Willoughby Chase shows how you can use functional, unadorned prose and excellent detail to evoke a far away time and place.
It's always Then. It's never Now.Time, for children, just never moves fast enough. Time, for adults, moves too quickly. The 13 Clocks of this tale sit frozen, "slain" by the villainous Duke."I slew time in these gloomy halls" The wicked Duke sets up impossible tasks for the young men who come to ask for the hand of Princess Saralinda, with the result of such men being fed to the Duke's geese. Will the handsome minstrel be next? Is he really a minstrel? And who is the invisible Listen?Listen can
It's never Now.Time, for children, just never moves fast enough.
Time, for adults, moves too quickly.
The 13 Clocks of this tale sit frozen, "slain" by the villainous Duke."I slew time in these gloomy halls"
Will the handsome minstrel be next?
Is he really a minstrel?
And who is the invisible Listen?Listen can be heard, but never seen.This is a tale to be read to the youngsters, although adults may also enjoy it.
But the New York Review Children's Collection has made this a tough book to walk past, with the holiday red binding and front cover artwork.
Very enjoyable story!
It's part children's classic, part fairy tale/fantasy and the rest who-knows-what, but who cares?!
Clever rhyme and innuendo throughout make for a delightful and insightful little diversion.
Marc Simont's illustrations, the texture of the cover, even the lettering and paper of this edition take me back to my childhood.
Reading The Thirteen Clocks was a full sensory experience for me and one I immediately wanted to share with others from the same generation.
The tale is simplicity itself, good for a light, fun read, which we can all use now and then, right?
Thanks Steve for the recommendation!
I'm still not sure exactly what the moral was supposed to be.
Worth the read though, if only for the marvelous language and inventive characters.So, this gets four stars because I love Thurber and also because of this marvelous piece of alliteration:"The brambles and thorns grew thick and thicker in a ticking thicket of bickering crickets.
From the sky came the crying of flies, and the pilgrims leaped over a bleating sheep creeping knee-deep in a sleepy stream, in which swift and slippery snakes slid and slithered silkily, whispering sinful secrets."That's a wordgasm if I ever saw one.
Damn, Thurber's a genius in this one. Read, my friend, and witness. The deliciously evil Duke who has stopped time in its tracks, who slits people "from guggle to zatch." The sly alliteration and delightful wordplay. The intentional tweaking and inversion of tired fairy-tale standards. "...They came and tried and failed and disappeared and never came again. And some, as I have said, were slain, for using names that start with X, or dropping spoons, or wearing rings, or speaking disrespectfully of sin." Speaking disrespectfully of sin! Swoon!
This is James Thurber's foray into the world of fantasy, and although it's a short story, it's a gem, for both children and adults. The language is classic Thurber, with just the right seasoning of tongue in cheek, and the illustrations are perfect for the text. Highly recommended for everyone, and particularly fun to read aloud either by yourself or to an audience!
i picked this up in an independent book shop, knowing full well it wasn't really my thing.
neil gaimain calls the 13 clocks, "probably the best book in the world" and that alone kind of solidified my feeling that i probably wouldn't like it.
aaaand i was right.it's not so much that it was a bad book.
if you like neil gaiman, or monty python or the princess bride and stuff like that, you will most likely enjoy this book.
i don't much care for any of the aforementioned (with the exception of the graveyard book and coraline, because those i truly enjoyed).
We are told the princess is good, but we are given no proof why.
We are told the prince is good, but he seems nothing more than a spoiled rich kid.
We are constantly told about spells witches cast over various characters to explain their many inconsistencies, but never throughout the book is a witches spell used, and there are plenty of opportunities.
The princess never speaks once throughout the book other than the words "I wish him well." And yet the prince risks his life over and over again to marry her because she is beautiful.
If you love cleverly written fantasy books, it doesn't get much better than the 13 Clocks. The story takes you on a wild and yet slightly farcical ride as you follow the prince's efforts to win the hand of the princess from her wicked Uncle. Yes, this book has the classic elements of a fairy tale but it's also filled with imaginative interpretations of everyday things such as the Duke who killed time (an event which left blood on his sleeves). This is a children's book and a short read, but well worth the time.
the begining gave me hope, and the end left me bitter. the 13 clocks started off well, then meandered every which way. there was no real character development. it was supposed to be philosophical, but i found it convoluted. the author imployed too many tortuous windings and improbable circumstances to get everything to work out. the end was rather obvious but still a bit vague. and the occasional rhyming annoyed me.
Me encantó esta historia, es una sátira a los cuentos de hadas con una convinación importante de humor. Disfruté mucho el poder leerla.
A timeless story of bravery, wizardry, and true love triumphing over evil, written in a delightfully Thurberian style that will appeal to readers of all ages."Summary (SPL): With the help of his magical protector, the Golux, Prince Zorn performs impossible tasks to win the hand of Princess Saralinda.Library Journal: "[In] James Thurber's grown-up fairy tale...
A ragamuffin prince, Zorn of Zorna, arrives determined to win her hand and sets out to perform the impossible feats devised by the Duke for his own amusement."The Hudson Review: "My exemplary Thurber fairy tale is The 13 Clocks...a small masterpiece of respectful travesty honors the whole spectrum of the traditions."
Este maravilloso relato de James Thurber condensa todo el sabor de los cuentos de hadas tradicionales en una prosa preciosa y delicada que a veces casi deja de ser prosa y pasa a ser rima, canción y poesía. La historia nos llega tamizada a través de esa sensación de lejanía y bruma que tienen las historias antiguas. El carácter fantástico y el toque ligeramente surrealista me recordó en ciertos pasajes al tono de ‘La serpiente Uróboros’ de E.R. Eddison.Reseña completa y mi versión de la portada en http://sidumbledorefueralibrero.com/2...
Eloquent, exuberant, ebullient. (And effective, without resorting to such grand words. ;)A palpable influence on  The Last Unicorn . As I read, I kept hearing the voices of King Haggard and Schmendrick: turning November into June, the Princess whom the Duke stole as a baby, not one but thirteen clocks that never show the right time ... the feeling was both startling and nostalgic.
