https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12291438-the-madman-s-daughter
I really feel like I gave this book a fair chance, I read it all the way to the end because I kept wanting to love it and get caught up in the atmosphere of this Victorian horror story - but it was not to be. Not everything I have to say about The Madman's Daughter is bad, so thankfully this will not be a wholly negative review, but there were a number of things I didn't like and those elements combined with long periods of slow, plotless boredom made me feel this was no more than a two-star re
I really feel like I gave this book a fair chance, I read it all the way to the end because I kept wanting to love it and get caught up in the atmosphere of this Victorian horror story - but it was not to be.
Though the stories are not alike, the way I feel about The Madman's Daughter is similar to how I felt about Grave Mercy, they both started great but quickly became bogged down by slowness and romance.
I loved this book!
It is so twisted and crazy, and I really enjoyed how dark it is.
It's been a while since a book has actually freaked me out a little and this one did that!
It's just so weird and messed up, but I couldn't stop reading.
There is a big love triangle, which I think turns people away from it.
I personally enjoy love triangles and I think this one was done fairly well.The ending took my by surprise along with some other plot twists, and I can't wait to continue on in the series!
Wow! this book surprised me in the best way possible. So interesting and mysterious. A must read! And that plot twist at the end....gahhhh! On to book two!!
The Madman's Daughter is a spinoff story for The Island of Dr. Moreau by HG Wells.
Some parts follow very closely the story of Wells' book and others quite different.
In particular is Megan Shepherd's original character, Juliet.Juliet is the daughter the the infamous Dr. Moreau.
I must say I liked her inner strength and while she is may be unsure of her own "unlady-like" interests I simply find her ahead of her time.She runs into her childhood friend (and her father's assistant) Montgomery who informs her that her father is alive.
And the three of them, along this Balthazar (Montgomery's assistant) go to the island.
And anyone who has read The Island of Dr. Moreau know what I speak of.
When she is kicked from her position due to self-defense against a rape attempt (remember: 19th century England servants don't have a whole lot of options other than to grin and bear it), she follows him to her father's island and is joined by a mysterious shipwreck survivor named Edward, and discovers the horrifying truth behind the rumors.Despite the setting, Juliet is no simpering, swooning Victorian miss.
No one could love a monster."Juliet knows the rumors that abound after her father absconded.
Dr. Henri Moreau may be a rumored madman to society, but he is also a genius and despite everything, Juliet still loves him.
Okay, so do you guys remember when I read Shadow and Bone and I thought the plot was kinda cool, I liked the side characters, I liked the heroine - I got on board with her weird morality and can-do attitude - but I fucking hated Mal?
I actually loved Juliet, because she spoke to me and I related to her and she was proactive and she deeply valued her friendship with another woman who was very different than her, but all of it is overshadowed by her completely bewildering infatuation with Montgomery.He is the absolute worst character in this book.
* Riveting beginning with fantastic scenes of horror * An uneven middle that I'd love to do all kinds of unholy surgery to, especially the over-emphasis on the uninteresting and rather tedious romance(s)* But saved by a great premise, awesomely freakish moments, solid writing, and a bang-up, untraditional ending. Author to watch! Review to come.
Everything was going normal until she once again meets Montgomery, her father's young assistant.
I haven't read an amazing YA book in years, and I'm glad to say The Madman's Daughter might make me rethink my opinion of the YA genre.
The author managed to tell a very interesting history.The main thing that made this novel amazing would be the mystery of her father.
I just wanted to read on and on just to find out why, what, and how the father performed such experiments.
With a huge interest in Science, this book was not a chore to read.
Warning : inappropriate koalas ahead.  It happened again. I waited too long to read a book that I knew I was going to like. Instead, I picked up too many books along the way that were nothing but a crap shoot. What I'd hoped for : Creepy. Gory. Spooky. Did it happen? : Check, check, and check.What I wasn't looking for : Overdone Romance.Did it happen? : Uh...twice. In a way I wasn't expecting.No, there were no actual threesomes. Sorry to disappoint.This book was a retelling of The Island of Dr
The author did a great job of painting a picture about an island which was out in the middle of nowhere, completely inhabited by disturbing creature/human hybrids.
This is the kind of stuff that makes reading multi-dimensional.Now, I might have had an easier time picturing the island due to the fact that I've seen the recent movie of the original book a few times.
Even though I personally thought that this story didn't need the romance at all, I didn't have a burning desire to want to see anyone get thrown off a cliff either, so it wasn't really a big deal.
The Madman's Daughter is clearly its own kind of disturbing!
If you enjoy bizarre "mad doctor" stories, if you enjoy Gothic novels in general, then this book is for you!As a big fan of Gothic novels, I can tell you that they are much more than just a book.
A mad scientist with crazy ideas and a whole island isolated from the rest of the world to create experiments… It's a good sign that you're going to get a lot of bat-shit craziness!
They were great characters though and I enjoyed the part they played in the story.
Well, Juliet goes to this island where her disgraced father lives and does confusing magic that this book claims is somehow science.
It’s less a twist and more of a “HAHA, SOMETHING COMPLETELY NEW!” The author worked so hard to make sure that you never saw it coming that Edward’s entire raison d'etre got lost in the mix.
Now imagine that the same doctor comes and gives you pills, saying that if you don’t take those pills, your leg will straighten out again, even after it’s already completely healed in the new way.
And then, when I discarded one theory and thought I'd never see it again, I only ended up bringing it back into play mere percentages later.And even though I did see the major twist coming (mind you, however, only about ten percentages before it was revealed, which is pretty damn impressive for the book), the fact that I saw the twist coming didn't impact my enjoyment in the novel in the slightest, unlike most cases.
And while I wasn't completely sold on either of the romances in The Madman's Daughter, which is probably why reading about Juliet go on about either of the boys was a bore to me, I definitely appreciate and almost admire how Sherperd made the love triangle play out.
This book is incredibly enjoyable, it is inspired by H.G Wells' The Island of Dr. Moreau (which I have yet to read) However I still enjoyed reading this book a lot regardless :D The story is extremely unique and different, I'm so glad I picked this up.
However there was one thing in this book that took away the 0.2 stars was the romance, though I won't say the romance was forced or I hated the love triangle but there were something about it I just did not enjoy.
Sixteen-year-old Juliet Moreau, once a proper young lady and now no more than a servant, is desperate to learn the truth of her father, the man who abandoned her and her mother and left them to starve.
Or is he just a misunderstood scientist, like many brilliant minds before him?Having read The Island of Dr. Moreau ages ago, I had a pretty clear idea of what to expect from this book, but I didn’t know how far Megan Shepherd would take it, and let me tell you, she took it pretty far.
Wow, I did not see that ending coming. If you can look past a very cliché and unnecessary love triangle, I can actually highly recommend this! It's a twist on the classic The Island of Doctor Moreau by H.G. Wells and it's full of suspense, eerie atmosphere and some surprising twists and turns. I already got the sequels and I can't wait to read them, since they're based on two of my favorite classics - Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde and Frankenstein!
My nightmares were made of darker things.'I feel the need to start off by saying I didn't dislike this book but obviously considering my rating I have some explaining to do.
As it was though, the romance didn't feel fitting in this type of story, like an irregular puzzle piece.I had been forewarned that the middle dawdled but that the ending was a big shocker so that gave me hope.
The pacing was definitely off for the vast majority of the middle portion and didn't actually start picking up until almost the very end of the book.
would be a perfect idea if not for the blasted love triangle.
“The world knew my father as a villain. I knew him as the thin man in a tweed suit who carried me on his shoulders during the Royal Guard’s parades. I needed to know which man my father was – the monster, or the misunderstood genius.” This was a really creepy and entertaining story, with several twists to the tale!I really liked Juliet and the other characters in this book. I felt sorry for Juliet and everything she had been through with her father being labelled as a madman, and her mother dyi
The not-knowing what experiments Juliet’s father was really doing, the screaming of the animals from his operating room at night, the way he so calmly tried to drown someone, and the question over just how wicked he really was all added to the tension, and then the twists really started piling up!
There was some romance, and it did turn into a love triangle, with the question being whether Juliet would choose the dashing Edward Prince, or the servant boy, turned mad-doctor’s assistant Montgomery, and it really wasn’t clear which one she would pick until almost the end of the book!
Actual Rating: 1 starI didn't like it.Ridiculous, absurd and silly. Boring and uninteresting. Predictable and with an expected unsurprising end.

Pure madness.Ever since her mother died and her father, a once loved scientist was also pronounced to be dead, Juliet's life has been nothing but eventful.
The more time she spends on the island, the more truths she discovers and the more she realises that she should have never come.Juliet Moreau, daughter of the madman scientist was the main character.
It was seriously off-putting to read a piece of dialogue and have 'hitherto' inserted randomly--it did not go with any other elements.The Madman's Daughter was disappointing in the romance and plot-- therefore meaning the book became a little monotonous at times but I still appreciated Megan Shepherd's idea, writing and main character.
The love triangle ruined what could've been a perfectly horrific Gothic YA.Plus, the name Edward's been kind of ruined.
This is a young adult novel with a love triangle. You have been warned. “Edward and Montgomery were suddenly both by my side, each taking an arm.My face burned as I looked between them. Two boys, two sets of hands on my wrists. One rough and calloused, the other strong yet smooth. My emotions knotted tighter, threatening to cut off my circulation.”I picked it up knowing this and expecting the above because I was seduced by the plot. The “madman” is actually Dr. Moreau. Yes, that Dr. Moreau. The
She stumbles across some evidence to the location of her long-lost father and, though she is haunted by memories of him, he is the only family she has left and she sets off an adventure to track him down.
The love triangle was unnecessary and I didn’t give a rats patootie about it but I’m too old to care about teen crushes and flip flopping between handsome boys.
There are many twists and turns and secrets to be revealed and I was surprised more than once at a few of the reveals but if I’m being honest it was way too long.
Though much of the novel consists more of suspense than outright action, Shepherd kept the story tense and me on the edge of my couch.Littered throughout The Madman's Daughter are literary references.
If you're seriously concerned, my recommendation would be to read Wells' novel or a summary of it online, because I suspect Shepherd's is darker than the original, based on my sole Wells experience.Juliet Moreau has a lot of sass and she made a delightful main character.
"To me blood smelled like home..."I have a love/hate relationship with anything goth-emo-horror.
I love to read it, but hate to be scared or creeped out.
See you can't win.I remember The Island of Dr. Moreau movie when I was little.
So reading about the relationships of the characters in this novel was new and unmarred.
GOTHIC THRILLER, INDEED!I could wax poetic on the many things I loved about this but I'll leave the rest for you to discover on your own.I look forward to future novels this author has to offer.
This book and I got on about as well as this:  Why? Because of:A lot of this: with a lot of this: equals me doing this: and this: but there are admittedly some fun creepy things... like this: (you can blame Meg for that last gif)~1 star for writing~1 star for twists
Intense to say the least! I can't even believe that ending! I loved this!
Chilling, compelling compliment to H.G. Wells' The Island of Doctor Moreau.
Possibly this isn't a very original idea, but anyway.Ladies and gentlemen, I present to you the high school yearbook version of The Madman's Daughter!Moreau Island High SchoolSchool slogan: No is not a wordThe Students:Juliet MoreauHas the potential to become best student of the year...if she gets out of her own way.Brains and beauty in one package...not that the boys noticed her brains.Naturally talented at everything...so naturally daddy issues.Hobbies: Dissecting, angsting, daydreamingFavourite song: Haunted by Taylor SwiftVoted "Most Indecisive Personality of the Year"Quote: "I’d thought I was so clever.
3.5---Immediate Reaction---I haven't read The Island of Dr. Moreau so I had no idea what to expect going in, but this was surprisingly good - in a dark, twisted way.
Like what Dr. Moreau was actually doing/creating on the island.
It’s difficult to remain interested when you already know crucial things that the protagonist is yet to figure out.Somewhere around Chapter 30 though, things got good.
I like that ;)Overall, The Madman’s Daughter was quite an enjoyable read that could have been better had the focus remained on the horror elements of the story and not the romance.A well-earned 3.5 stars.P.s. Fellow animal-lovers beware.
