https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/126061.The_Double_Helix
Surely a man such as that should be held to higher standards and should have been a voice for equality and not one spreading misogynistic ideas?If Franklin had lived it also would have highlighted the quandary over whether or not she would she have been awarded a Nobel prize too?
Rosalind Franklin died from ovarian cancer before the awarding of the 1962 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine which was jointly awarded to Francis Harry Compton Crick, James Dewey Watson and Maurice Hugh Frederick Wilkins "for their discoveries concerning the molecular structure of nucleic acids and its significance for information transfer in living material".
I really hope his more recent book DNA: The Secret of Life is considerably more interesting and considerably less sexist.
but it sure felt like it to me.
His later book is much, much better and more to the point.]I can understand his fascination with DNA, but that's just about all I could get on board with.
I do not honestly think all the details like how cold he was in Italy are at all relevant to the history of the discovery of the double helix.
The structure wasn't stable, and I felt it probably deserved four stars (one for A, one for T, one for G, one for C; also one for Watson, one for Crick, one for Wilkins, and yes one for Franklin).Short, interesting, personal and important but also sexist, biased, & according to Crick "a violation of friendship".
Still, despite this major and very real issue, the book (along with Watson, Crick & Wilkins contributions) cannot be undersold.
The discovery of DNA's structure changed biology and the book catapulted Watson & Crick into that pantheon of fame that is seldom reached by even Nobel-level scientists.
Gossip, backstabbing, petty squabbles, arrogance, snobbishness, and misogyny take a front row seat in this personal account of how the double helix structure of DNA was discovered.
And then there is the question about Rosalind Franklin's contribution to the discovery.While Watson does spend some time in the epilogue to credit Franklin for her work on the subject, it seems too little, too late.
It really is more of an account of his thoughts on girls, stomach pains, and on the personal lives of people Watson encountered when working on the project.
“Sometimes I daydreamed about discovering the secret of the gene, but not once did I have the faintest trace of a respectable idea.”I find that hard to believe.
Thanks to the work of Rosalind Franklin, Linus Pauling, Maurice Wilkins, and a host of others, he used their “faintest traces” to build upon his own theory.
Discovering the structure of DNA was hard work, but much of it was timing.
Kudos to Watson and Crick for that, and I do believe they deserved the Nobel for their work.
He almost unapologetically skewers Rosalind Franklin and her contributions to the discovery of DNA.
Shows how arrogant, misogynistic, and plain stupid the "discoverers" of DNA's double helix were.
Pros: Emphasizes the importance of being able to access a free, open, creative, in some ways childish state of mind in order to allow for truly creative and "defocalized" states of mind that allow for scientific discovery.
Tunnel vision can be a scientist's worst nightmare.Cons: Shows how childish, pretentious and socially inept the scientific establishment can be.
Also shows how a great scientist who suffered in silence due to being surrounded by sexist men in positions of authority was robbed of credit for providing the critical evidence necessary for finding and verifying the structure of DNA.
Watson became a controversial figure later in life, but this story recounts the seminal event in his life: the 1953 discovery of the structure of DNA for which he received the 1962 Nobel Prize in Physiology with his collaborator Francis Crick and another, Maurice Wilkins.
The discovery of the double helix as the structure of DNA is perhaps the most remarkable event in biology after Darwin's grand theory of Evolution.
Franklin did not receive a Nobel because she tragically died in 1958 from ovarian cancer at the age of 37, and the Prize is only awarded to living scientists.I cannot believe that I've never read this book before.

I have no doubt that James Watson was a (pretty) competent scientist - although the way he writes it, every thing seemed to favor him up to the discovery of the double helix structure.
I have more respect to great men and women who did science because they really loved digging up more and more facts about something they truly love, something that they can't stop thinking about.
In some scenes that he recollects in the book it seems as if they resented her for getting the double helix images before them, because it means they needed the results of her research.Watson's writing is friendly and easy enough to read.
اللولب المزدوج . الحمض النووي . اصل الحياة الأن فترة استعداد لي إمتحان القادم في بايو كمستري ، كان نصيب الأمس في دراسة شيت "شابتر"الأحماض النووية ، وبالطبع الدكتور شرح مقدمة علي مكتشف الدنا ، وطبعا فضولي النابع من الحسد للمكتشفين واصحاب جائزة نوبل خلاني نبحث عليه لعند ماوصلت لتحفة ورواية شخصية لي اكتشاف أهم اكتشاف علمي لحد الأن ،..!المهم في بداية كانت صدمة أنه جمس واطسون دخل الجامعة شيكاغو وعمره 14 السنة ..! عبقرية ياسي ..! لكن علي حسب السرد في الكتاب ، وحسب مقولة واطسون ..ان كل العلماء أغبياء .
الأن فترة استعداد لي إمتحان القادم في بايو كمستري ، كان نصيب الأمس في دراسة شيت "شابتر"الأحماض النووية ، وبالطبع الدكتور شرح مقدمة علي مكتشف الدنا ، وطبعا فضولي النابع من الحسد للمكتشفين واصحاب جائزة نوبل خلاني نبحث عليه لعند ماوصلت لتحفة ورواية شخصية لي اكتشاف أهم اكتشاف علمي لحد الأن ،..!المهم في بداية كانت صدمة أنه جمس واطسون دخل الجامعة شيكاغو وعمره 14 السنة ..!
لكن علي حسب السرد في الكتاب ، وحسب مقولة واطسون ..ان كل العلماء أغبياء ..أعتقد أيضا أن أصحاب جوائز نوبل كلهم ، كان سبب الأول ، هو الحظ في دراسة في الجامعات مرموقة ، ، الجهد ووقت لدراسة ، وللعمل في بحوث العلمية ...!
Some, I’m sure, are the workaday, tame people we like to imagine in white lab coats.
But we also have half-deranged incorrigible bachelors who stick needles in their own eyes (Newton), adventurous world-travelers with exotic diseases (Darwin), and fun-loving, impetuous youngsters who enjoy chatting about foreign girls and wine as much as tinkering with organic chemistry (Watson).This book was great.
Personally, I think it’s valuable to read about anyway.
It’s a bird’s eye view into what institutional sexism was like.
Watson, like all of us, is imperfect and provincial.
I had to read this book for a science class in college. I've never forgiven that teacher.
"من الممكن حتى لهاوي طيور سابق أن يحل الحمض النووي !
" ~ جيمس واطسون .العلم ليس كما كنا نظن ..
ليس لمجموعة أشخاص بمعاطف بيضاء..
العلم في الحقيقة تجربة إنسانية من الدرجة الأولى ..
تحوي بين طياتها مشاعر إنسانية مختلطة ..
أكثر ما أعجبني في الكتاب هو تركيز واطسون - في أثناء بحثه عن التركيب المثالي للـ دنا - أنه لابد أن يكون جميلًا وبسيطًا ..
و عندما اكتشف النموذج، كان على يقين تام بأن شيئًا بهذا الجمال وبهذه البساطة لا يمكن أن يكون خطأً ..
هذا الإعتقاد الراسخ بضرورة بساطة وجمال الحقيقة أعطاني نظرة مختلفة للحياة والعالم ..
I was especially interested in who would make that final leap (Watson or Crick) and break the problem open.
I'm also certain that the importance of the discovery played a big part in the book's ability to keep me enthralled.The book is also especially eye-opening in regard to how some science is done.
I suspect this nature in some way made him a perfect compliment to the much more driven and, by Watson's own account, intelligent Crick.
Watson's misogynist jabs are deeply frustrating to read, often detracting from the narrative itself -- which is structured as a fun academic mystery (AND Y'ALL KNOW HOW MUCH I LOVE MY ACADEMIC MYSTERIEEEES).
I tend to read more physics than biology pop-science; that's maybe gonna have to change.
In a review of that book, I suggested The Double Helix as a corrective; it made clear that competition, hunger for personal acclaim, and a desire to show up the famous guy (a role played here by Linus Pauling) all figure into the progress of science.
The original Kirkus review of this book puts it nicely: "What emerges here is not only a story of a scientific scrimmage as competitive as the race to the moon--but also a happy sense of surprise that anything as seemingly assiduous and systematic as pure science could be so much the result of random speculations at lunch and teatime and anything from light to 'solid fiddling' at odd hours.
An interesting science story wrapped in a pissing contest. Watson's insistence that he was writing about how he felt at the time and his brief paragraph praising his colleague Rosilind Franklin in the epilogue don't make up for his portrayal of her in the book proper. Watson comes across very poorly. I'm glad I listened to the audiobook on my hike today, but I don't really recommend it.
I cant remeber ONE word i just read soooo boring not my cup of tea , hon just no dont read if easily bored But if you like DNA and stuff? give it a go?
He doesn't want to do the hard work; he avoids understanding x-ray crystallography, anything about biology, difficult mathematics and anything too far removed from what he already knows.
Fine, so the book was first published in 1968, at time when a lot of people held ideas that now feel very backwards, but science had always tried (and almost always failed) to be a meritocracy - to so openly criticise a scientist for their appearance over their work is infuriating.
Watson has crafted here one of the most human and down-to-earth memoirs I've ever read, and he doesn't even feel like he's trying to accomplish that.
This is both an egotistical book (b/c it is purely his side of the story with no investigation into anyone else) and an ego-less book (in that he does not in any way praise himself or go on monologues about his individual worth and accomplishments as compared to others).
As for me, I'm going to find ways to insert "diffraction patterns of crystallographic sculptures under X-rays" into conversation to make me sound smart and make it sound like I read a smart book.
Written in the late sixties about events that happened in the early fifties, I shouldn't be surprised and upset that his attitude towards women is so awful, and to his credit he gives an afterword basically apologizing for his treatment of Dr. Rosalind Franklin in life and in the text, which was a nice touch.But it was terrible reading about them trying to get her fired for wanting to be equal to the men she was educationally and career-wise actually equal to.
I think Watson likes to feel smarter than his readers, who he assumes will be along for the ride because of the importance of the finding.
Glad I finally read this classic.
Watson's prose is obscurely ironic at times, which keeps the reader on his toes (or bores him as the case may be) along with quite a bit of humor if you are looking for it.
The science, not difficult even at its original full strength, is hardly toned-down for the popular reader, which is a disctinct positive.
Watson treated his female colleague Rosalind Franklin very badly, and he doesn't hide that from his readers.
Certainly, Watson's recent racial shenanigans, 50+ years after his discovery, and at the end of his long life, are disgusting.
As for me - i never suspected that so hard competition existed between american and britain scientists, moreover, that the cultures are so different: conspicuous adversary between US scientists, and, in contrast, unquestionable confession of the first right to make investigations for those who decided to investigate first, in britain.Thirdly this book is making you to think: surely you always can dismiss all chemical details, but what a pleasure to get into them!I saw negative opinions about the Double Helix counting 200 words or more, but i believe that the people wrote them have to keep their fervor for the whole bunch of other junk books, but not for the stories of the greatest scientific discoveries of the modern history.
Very short memoir/history by Watson of his and Cricks unravelling of DNA and coming up with the double helix.
Many teams at the time thought DNA was probably the molecule responsible for cell reproduction and were working on the problem but Crick and Watson unlocked the code first.
What is shows through this short story is that science is a group effort and if Crick and Watson had not of solved the structure of DNA another team soon would have.

This should be required reading for all biology and chemistry majors. Understanding the structure of DNA is especially important in the era of genetics, but this book also gives insight into the people behind the science, which is all too often overlooked.An aside: I literally ran into Watson when I came barreling around a corner with my arms full of books and papers. He helped me pick it all up before continuing on his way.
لطالما قرأت عن ثرثرة كريك فرانسيس وجايمس واطسون وهذه الرواية أكدت لي الكثير من هذه الحقائقورغم اني كنت مريضة خلال قرائتي لها فقد زادت من سوء حالتي بعض فصول هذا الكتاب مازاد إثارتي هي الفصول الاخيرة واقتراب اكتشافهما لبنية الحمض النووي
3/5Full review coming soon.
Çok düz, heyecansız ve dürüst olmak gerekirse cinsiyetçi bir bakış açısıyla yazılmış. DNA sarmalının keşif öyküsü biraz daha motive edici, etkileyici olmalıydı diye düşünmeden edemiyorum.
vividly how scientific breakthrough were done, with very human touch.
