https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/239848.The_I_5_Killer
While it's difficult to try to comprehend Randall Woodfield's deviant criminal tendencies, it is impossible for me to understand what could make some women straight-up lie for him and that is truly terrifying.
I had to get this book...the first one of Ann Rule's I read...because I knew Randall Woodfield - the infamous "I-5 Killer" which is what the news media dubbed him.
This book scared the s*it out of me, quite frankly, not simply because I had known Randall but because Ann Rule digs into these all-too-real characters she writes about and brings their lives, their crimes, and motivations - as far as anyone could surmise - into their story so you know you're looking at the whole rounded individual.
You had Ted Bundy, Jeffrey Dahmer, and you even had the I-5 killer, Randall Woodfield.Reading this true crime book by Ann Rule about the I-5 killer was eye-opening.Unlike with her previous books I think that Rule was a lot stronger in this one because she really did focus on the perpetrator a lot more and the crimes that he committed.
Reading this book you seem to think that the killer Randall Woodfield had everything going for him.
I use to love true crime books but books like this freaked me the hell out!
I've read a lot of true crime in my life, but I can say this book skeeved me out bigtime.
This sick, twisted waste of space orally sodomized women as young as 10 year old girls.
It would be obvious to an adult woman that something was "off" with him, but Randy liked them young, so there were so many women that were sucked into his lies.Not only was he a rapist, but a cold blooded murdered.
So many of these crimes happened at places I have personally been to, as I live in the Pacific northwest.
I recommend this and every other book by Ann Rule for any true crime reader who hasn't read her. You will not be disappointed!
Since Rule's book came out in 1984 (revised edition in 1988) and Woodfield's $12 million libel suit against her was dismissed, he has been linked by DNA testing to the murders of Cherie Ayers, Darci (or Darcey, sources vary) Fix, Douglas Altic, and Julie Reitz (all of whom he was strongly suspected of murdering in 1984).A lot of murders in America in the twentieth century seemed to have been committed because, as a very broad generalization, there is a significant subset of men who never made the cognitive/psychological leap to understanding that women are human beings who have independent existences, and that that is not wrong.
Rule may not be the most skilled writer but she surely knows how to pull you into her nonfiction murder accounts.
I'd not ever heard of Randy Woodfield, probably b/c I was busy following the rampant stories about Ted Bundy's trails throughout the country around the same time.
I picked up this book at a library's 'used' sale, and having read a few of her other books, figured it would be worthwhile.
Amazing how much he and Bundy were alike, operating in similar northwest area and during similar time period.
Gripping, troubling, detailed account of this guy's evil path up and down the I-5 corridor.
Like many other people, I have a fascination with true crime and serial killers.
I moved to Eugene, OR a few years ago and was told by a coworker that there was a serial killer who was caught in Eugene in the early 80's.
So of course I had to read more about this local serial killer!
His crimes frightened me to the core.
After I finished this the other night, I couldn't fall asleep!
I kept hearing noises in the house and ended up locking my bedroom door so I could fall asleep.
She was another local killer from the area.
One of my guilty pleasures is reading Ann Rule's true-crime books. So when this one went on sale for $2 recently, I bought it. And yesterday, as a change from some delightful historical cozy mysteries I've been bingeing on, I started it and found myself finishing it today. As usual with Ms Rule, it was well-written, well-edited, and I was a bit surprised to find that it wasn't nearly as um, squicky as several of her other books. The killer is still in prison after 36 years.

So many women would remember Randy Woodfield, remember dates and places and things he'd said.
In the end, it would be women who would help to trap him, women who could place him in areas where it was dangerous for him to have been remembered.
He left his name with them, almost compulsively.
He told them too much about himself, never worrying that he might have left a trail for someone to follow A very solid true-crime read and I can very well see why Ann Rule became such a prominent figure of the genre.
although probably after I have read something more light-hearted
Reading this book makes you think that the same situation could never happen again because we've advanced so much technologically since the 1980s. The perpetrator would have to be a lot smarter than the one in this book but something similar to this could happen even today. That's what makes a book like this relevant even though it was written almost 30 years ago.
This book was ok not one of her best as far as I am concerned.
The first half of the story covers the murders, rapes, and other crimes committed by Woodfield, and in the latter half she covers prosecution, trials and sentencing of Woodfield following his capture, including the atrocities he continued to commit from prison.Woodfield is a prime example of when the death penalty is necessary.
While in prison, he continued to have correspondence with many more women, continued multiple relationships through writing, and by extension damaged many more lives.
I am disgusted that the prison system allows him to get away with so much, even as the families of his victims continue to grieve over the loss of their innocent loved ones he raped and robbed from them.
Good lean but tasty tale from the days when Ann Rule, now the unrivaled Queen Of True Crime, had to make her bones in the business by publishing under the name non de plume Andy Stack (as she's explained, publishers of the late 1970s just didn't think that readers would accept hard-boiled true-crime writing from a woman, a mindset that seems beyond bizarre today).
Randy Woodfield was tailor-made for a true-crime book: He was a handsome ladies' man, a star athlete who was drafted into the NFL, and he was also a curious sociopath whose deep-seated anger eventually boiled over into rape and murder.
Ann Rule does another great job of describing the hunt for a killer.
Another facet that had a powerful impact was how this man was fighting his inner demons and seeking to avoid the compulsions leading him to expose himself to women, eventually moving on to robbery, rape, and homicide.
Rule does a great job describing the manhunt for this person, the connections made, and the methods used to find, identify, and prove he was the man responsible.
He STILL wasn't identified as a sexual predator, so even looking through databases of people with sex-based crimes on their records, this killer escaped the radar.
I found it to be a good book.
I have read a few of Ann's books, but can tell that this came from an earlier time.
It was a good look into how the technology of forensics has changed in the last thirty years.
It was a good look into the criminals mind and in depth about the crimes.
I will be picking up more of her books.
Now that it is finished I have moved onto the A Rose for her Grave crime files Vol. 1 also by Ann Rule.
Would recommend if you enjoy true crime novels.
I don't think that Ann is a very good writer but when she sticks to just giving you the facts of the case then the story gets interesting.
I'm always horrified about how long it takes to find and stop these repeat killers/offenders.
Seems they get away with anything for years before they are finally found.
The I-5 Killer wasn't even all that bright, but by just being so unpredictable he was able to stay way ahead of the detectives.
Hopefully there are more modern ways to catch these guys now.
This all happened in the early 80's before there were even cell phones to use.
Riveting account of Randy Woodfields deadly rampage up and down the west coast via the I-5 Freeway. No one would suspect this handsome mild mannered jock of being a serial killer. But he was indeed. This book tells detailed accounts of his many murders and how he eluded police for a long long time.
Not a bad book. I like the way Rule writes, very immediate. I hadn't heard of this criminal before (I was like 6 when the crimes occurred, and on the east coast), but I enjoyed the story.
This was an OK one. Rule spent too much time on her usual theme of how brilliant and handsome the killer was and how he threw it all away for a life of crime. We KNOW, Ann, we know!
What can I say? For true crime Ann Rule is the best. A quick and cannot put down read.
Prior to picking up Rule's The Stranger Beside Me, the only true crime I had ever read was Truman Capote's In Cold Blood, a book that was at once gripping and fascinating and also stomach-churning and terrifying.
I don't think I realized when I read In Cold Blood (in the early 2000s) that there is an actual true crime genre and a wide variety of books out there recounting the commission of various horrifying crimes, and the eventual apprehension and conviction of (some of) the people who commit them.Then I picked up The Stranger Beside Me. This was effectively the gateway drug to falling down a Wikipedia wormhole of horrible pages.
I've read a lot of true crime books about a variety of criminals in my life, but somehow I had never heard of the I-5 killer before.
Compared to a lot of serial killers, his methods were quite different.
While reading this, it felt like one day he just up and decided he was going to rob businesses in order to get his money, like it was no big deal.
It was an odd read because it never felt like there was a true motivation behind his crimes.
Instead, it came across like he just thought it was something to do.
Wanted to read this cuz I heard Woodfield played for the Packers. (Technically, he was on the team, but he barely made it to the practice squad before they cut him.)That aside, Woodfield was one sick and disturbed creep. His sexual and homicidal attacks were nothing short of appalling, and they're recounted here in surprisingly gruesome detail. Rule's retelling of the assaults and manhunt are both thorough and well paced. A solid book if you're in the mood for some straight forward true crime about one of America's lesser known serial killers.
Well written. What a truly unbelievable world we live in. After reading the first few chapters I was untaken by the book. However after reading a bit further it became apparent what a lowlife Randy was and that Anne did justice by bringing his bad deeds to the general public’s attention. Thank you Anne. I truly hope your true reason you wrote these are for justice and not for personal gain.
I enjoyed the specificity of information regarding the crimes, the survivors, and Woodfield's background that you can't get from a single episode of a true crime podcast or TV show, but overall, the book felt like it dragged a little bit. With so much written on the subject of true crime, I wouldn't advise against this book, but I feel that there's more than I'd enjoy more. That being said, I would pursue another of Ann Rule's books!
Ann Rule is an absolute master at taking the most salacious true crimes and making them straightforward and honest. She lets the horror of the truth have the main stage and weaves a compelling narrative by knowing when and how to provide more information on the villain of the story. "The I-5 Killer" is especially notable for the number of side-eyes she gives to numerous moments where people allowed the man to get away with terrible behavior because he seemed like "a nice guy."
I found this book to be full of facts. I was still a teenager when this nut case made his way down 1-5 I remember being scared for anyone who worked or traveled the interstate. This book is a great insight to the horror so many people lived though during that terrible time. I found it to be well written, well developed as fact not just fiction as some true story end up being. if your interests in Amarican crime this is a good book for you to read.
