https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/49286.How_We_Die
Because I'm reading some long books right now & it'll be ages before I can say anything about those.
Because, how we die on Goodreads is ....
stop adding books ...
Doctor says "I've got some bad news, and I'm afraid I've got some even worse news." Guys says "Okay, I'll have the even worse news first." Doctor says "Okay, you have terminal cancer.
The other news is that you also have Alzheimer's." Guy takes a deep breath and says "Okay - well, at least I haven't got terminal cancer."
We've got three score and ten years and most of that could be healthy, but after that, the remainder of our body life is borrowed and breaking down.
Towards that end, Dr. Nuland urges us to measure quality of life against mechanical extensions of life, value peace of mind over medical miracles (because your surgeon sure as hell won't), and hold our connections with loved ones above everything.
Live your life well, he says, because the end will probably not be pretty, and you want the people around you to remember everything else.
He is appreciative of modern medicine's ability to improve and prolong life, but he expresses concern that a doctor's drive to diagnose and cure can override his duty to provide the most appropriate care when the end of his patient's life becomes inevitable.The book was published in 1993 but only seems out of date in the anguished chapter on AIDS.I was entranced by the technical details and moved to tears by some of the author's personal stories, but his philosophical musings seemed a bit repetitive after a while.
Doctor Nuland is right on when he talks about how the specialists, for whom a disease such as cancer becomes a great riddle to solve, somehow withdraw from the patient's presence when the disease they are trying to interdict cannot be stopped with the assortment of chemo drugs and radiation therapy they have in their tool box.
Dr. Nuland talks at length about the moment when the specialists pack up their tool kits and it becomes time for the generalists, the GP's and the hospice care nurses and therapists to work their compassion and relieve the pain that the disease has wrought.
If you are alive, and might someday die, or know anyone who is alive and might somedaydie, this might be one of those books you have to read.
It takes the piss out of heroics,and science, and the Dignified Death; it harshly regards the coldness of medical personnel dedicated to solving what the author calls the Riddle and ignoring the needs of the person that provides it.
He is hard on doctors, and hard on himself.
Some books please, some entertain, some disappoint.
It came at a time when I needed it, when I wasin the process of losing a dear family member.
Nhưng hơn cả sự hù doạ không mong muốn, Nuland khiến suy nghĩ của mình về cái chết trở nên thay đổi.
“Chân giá trị lớn lao nhất được tìm thấy trong cái chết chính là chân giá trị của cuộc sống đã có trước đó.
(...) Hi vọng nằm trong ý nghĩa của cách ta đã sống cuộc đời mình.” Không hoa văn và màu mè, Nuland chỉ ra cách để không sợ cái chết, đấy là xem nó như cái tất yếu của cuộc đời một con người, thay vì sợ, hãy sống “chất lượng hơn là số lượng.” Cuốn sách còn chứa đựng nhiều suy nghĩ giữa mối quan hệ của một bác sĩ với những bệnh nhân đang hấp hối, về tính nhân văn trong cái chết của một người bệnh.
Nuland explores the more common ways that most Americans die in his account, explaining the many possible processes of dying in scientific terms while also weaving in his personal experience and insight.One thing I really liked was how Nuland pointed out how attitudes toward death have changed with the advents of modern medicine, how physicians today focus more on achieving victory in indivudalized cases rather than accepting death as inevitable.
But author, Dr. Sherwin Nuland, is not much of a believer in death with dignity, thinking from his experience that it “should not be expected by any but a very few people.” He says at the outset, “The quest to achieve true dignity fails when our bodies fail.” Is it possible that dignity is something that has become more achievable with the passage of time, medical advances and the availability of skilled hospice care?At the end of the book he talks about The Riddle: Every medical specialist must admit that he has at times convinced patients to undergo diagnostic or therapeutic measures at a point in illness so far beyond reason that The Riddle might better have remained unsolved.
A beautifully written account by one who has witnessed many deaths, as a retired surgeon, in a hospital setting.A scholarly and reflective depiction on the process of quietus.Great insight for anyone who is concerned that one day they might die.
What was most interesting to me as he made his segue into HIV/AIDS, was how his own values as an old time surgeon began to conflict with evolving codes of ethics, patient and family expectations and modern medical practice.
Nuland recognizes the value of the primary care physician to help guide patients through confusing and complicated medical decisions but he only gives this recognition one sentence.
The book also gives insight into the mind of the academic surgeon.And, should you ever be in a life threatening situation where difficult decisions have to be made, if time permits I would also recommend a conversation with your primary care physician.
For those unaware of the physical turmoils each of these six detailed death sentences encompasses- heart disease, stroke, Alzheimer's (dementia), murder (including suicides and accidents), AIDS, and cancer- Nuland provides an opportunity to walk away with perhaps a more proper dose of understanding and empathy in a world that isolates these victims almost as easily and ambitiously as one quarantines a leper.
Most of us act, instead, as if we will live forever.In these days there is also a tendency to hide death from view, particularly in nursing homes and hospitals.
(As of 1993, 80% of American deaths took place in hospitals, up from 50% in 1949.) And in many of those cases people live out their last days isolated from family and friends attached to ventilators in intensive care units.
Instead, the greatest percentage of Americans prefer to believe that they will die at home with family nearby.Dr. Nuland’s message to readers is that it is time to take the blinders off.
As Adan was expeled from paradise for chosing freedom and knowledge ,paid a high price and was punis
Dr. Nuland writes from years of experience on the topic of death, and how really there is no dignity to it.
he explores this myth of 'ars moriendi' (the art of dying) and both the pathophysiology and mental/emotional states that accompany it.
"it is inherent in the art of medicine to appreciate that the testing and medications are of limited usefulness without the talking." "The diginity that we seek in dying must be found in the dignity with which we have lived our lives.
Ars moriendi is ars vivendi: the art of dying is the art of living."
A remarkable book which my mother, my husband and I all read when my mother developed the heart condition from which she eventually died about 8 years later.
Sherland combines scientific knowledge, medical experience, ethical concern and emotional sensitivity as he describes the stages people go through when they are dying of the most common conditions that kill us.
It helped us all live with Mum's condition, has since helped through the passing of other close people and I hope will help us in turn to understand what is likely to happen.
Ông giải thích khá dễ hiểu (đối với những người không làm nghề y) những hiện tượng, khả năng mà con người có thể trải qua khi chạm đến mốc thời gian cuối cùng trong cuộc đời mình.
Ngoài ra mình còn thích một chương ông nói về ung thư - sự bành trướng của nó trong thời gian này và cách người bệnh lẫn gia đình họ đối mặt với căn bệnh này.
What makes this book stand above most others, is Nuland’s wisdom and wonderful ability to write about how death has affected him both personally when dealing with family members’ deaths, but also outlining how his patients have died from different types of diseases, giving us a full, frank picture of the details and ways we could die personally—what those final weeks and moments are like.
I assume most people turn to this book, when they have experienced a death of a family member and realize there is so much they don’t know about death.
Finally he has wonderful sections on “hope” and “lessons learned.” It is a gem of a book.
I read this book because I have started to work as a healthcare professional, and in particular with countless clients who are "palliative." What I wanted to know was why, when I review the medical history of some of my clients (patients) with Chronic Heart Failure, and a history of a Cerebrovascular Accident (CVA), and Hypertension, and a CABG (bypass) in 2013, and kidney failure, and...
Despite the list of diagnoses that go on and on, and the list of surgeries that go on and on, and the list of medications that is even longer - isn't she dying of old age?
Nguyên nhân bắt đầu từ việc não bị tổn thương gây mất trí nhớ, và sau đó hoạt động của hệ thần kinh đi xuống tới mức những hoạt động và cơ chế tự nhiên trong cơ thể cũng dần dần dừng lại, và sau đó là cái chết 4/ Chết vì án mạng, tai nạn, tự tử, an tử: - Bị sát hại hoặc tai nạn, tác giả đã từng biết một số câu chuyện về sự ra đi thanh thản mặc dù bị giết hoặc tai nạn (do cơ chế sinh ra endorphin trong những tình huống bị kích thích), - Tự tử: - An tử5/ AIDS: cuốn sách xuất bản năm 1993 khi căn bệnh thế kỷ vừa xuất hiện không lâu trước đó, HIV AIDS là nguyên nhân cho sự chấm dứt của cuộc đời rất nhiều người đặc biệt là người trẻ (tuy nhiên mình có tìm hiểu thì HIV hiện nay có thể xem là một căn bệnh mãn tính - không chữa được nhưng có thể kìm chế sự phát triển nếu dùng thuốc liên tục).
It’s no secret or surprise that much of my processing and understanding of life happens through reading.
I’ve been a bibliophile since birth (literally– one of my dad’s proudest moments as a father was reading to me on the day that I was born); books are the primary way in which I explore the world, grapple with emotion, and make sense of the human condition.
– so that we may better understand what’s really happening as the body fights for life and, ultimately, surrenders to death.
Le habría venido bien una recortadita en la edición.No lo recomendaría para quienes no están interesados en estos temas, pero para los que sí, parece ser un libro de lo más esencial.
De hecho, en otra parte del libro, dice cómo le gustaría tener una muerte fácil y sin dolor, cuando le llegue el momento, pero a la vez cómo entiende que lo más posible es que no sea así, ya que no es lo común.
Nhưng dù ta có vờ như không để tâm đến nó thì định mệnh không thể tránh khỏi này vẫn sẽ xảy ra.Thông điệp mà tác giả muốn truyền tải đến người đọc đó là con người cần chấp nhận quy luật tất yếu này của tự nhiên và cố gắng hiểu cách thức mà nó xảy ra với chúng ta để có thể đưa ra quyết định khôn ngoan nhất cho thời điểm thiêng liêng của đời người.
Important bookI read this as my 80 year old mom was rapidly dying from brain cancer. Some of the technical descriptions of major bodily functions are gripping, especially from the underlying perspective of their eventual failure towards death. Reading this as we sat for many days in vigil as my mom went through the dying process gave me a unique comfort that I’m deeply grateful for. It was comfort in the brutal transparency and absolute universal reality of death as someone I loved so deeply was actually experiencing it. A must read.
The purpose of this book is to help people have reasonable expectations about death and is a plea for more empathetic doctoring; namely more family practitioners and hospice workers.
I agree with the author that most people do not know how to treat those who are dying or what is normal even.
Our expectations(namely that people we can always be cured, that hope is lost if the disease is found to be incurable, or that their is a 'right' way to go) can affect how we view and thus react as friends, family, and doctors around those dying.
(Note: this author quickly became my all time favorite writer, leading me to buy all of his wonderful books, enjoying each and every one of them!1. Surgeons view of death from personal, physical and emotional views2. Even if you don’t read all of the various death descriptions, be sure to read the final two chapters, The Lessons Learned and Epilogue to see what he summarizes from all the details provided in the earlier chapters3. Lot said about extending life beyond what is reasonable, due to dr
1994 National Book Award nonfiction winner, Yale physician Nuland's study of the clinical, biological and emotional details of dying was a 14-week PW bestseller.In the same year as my own heart transplant, an amazing book was published titled: How We Die. I only coincidently “discovered “ this book twelve years later and was fascinated in its reading, especially from the perspective of one who was still alive due to the gift of a donated heart and at 62 years of age, am now again looking to the future where my own mortality gets more interesting with each passing year of living this very fulfilled life post transplant.
By the time you finish reading this amazing book, you will change the way you view your own mortality and how you expect to die and face that final moment.
Um livro bem curto e bem denso de um médico falando sobre a morte, de pacientes e de entes queridos. Tem um tom de desabafo bem grande, de alguém que escreveu aquilo por passar pelo processo, o que deixa o livro bem tocante. Mas me parece acrescentar mais para profissionais da área de saúde (e em um tom pessoal) do que para o público em geral, ao contrário do Mortais: Nós, a medicina e o que realmente Importa no final.
A very well-written, unsentimental account of how it is that we actually die, what happens in our bodies, and which ailments are most likely to kill us. As Dr. Nuland points out, waxing eloquent about death is a very common theme among artists, but it is rare that we get to hear about death from someone whose actual business is living and dying. A thoughtful and important perspective. Recommended.
Since we all share this experience, this is a must read. Honest and realistic yet still very tender in its approach. I read pertinent chapters to my Mom while she was dying of liver cancer. We both appreciated the insights. It empowered her to maintain a voice and make choice in a situation where she could easily have just gotten swept along by the current. Our lovely Hospice Nurse recommended it and it was a gift. Now that she has died, I can look back and say "We did right by our Mom".
I do want to actually finish it sometime. I think it's important to have accurate information about the process of dying instead of holding on to myths about what it's like to end this life. Dying is indeed messy, painful and undignified business. I'm grateful that this detailed account of how different diseases kill us is out there. Just wasn't ready to read it all right now.
But, midst the dispassionately clinical descriptions of oxygen starved muscles, atherosclerosis induced heart failure, trauma, and the other "doorways into death" through which nature finally achieves her grim objective, the author (drawing on his years of medical practice) shows how often death is something abrupt, painful, and very often humiliating and detrimental to the human spirit.
Yet, death is not an enemy ; if our hope of salvaging dignity from death's final throes is more likely than not to be thwarted, the only measure of dignity that we can gain succour from is the decades of life that preceded it.
