https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35522836-no-exit
with no telephone service.There are only a few cars in the parking lot and she finds people, coffee and cocoa waiting on the inside.
Trying to open the van, she finds it locked.
But what terrifies her most is that the child is in something that resembles a dog crate and she has duct tape across her mouth.One of the people inside is a kidnapper ..
All she knows is that she must try to save the child.And then she makes another mistake ...........This is a new author to me, and one I intend to read more of.
Had potential.This book is for those like to read Robin Cook books. Scary, vicious and bloody nightmarish story. Can't believe any body traveling in that weather and those states, without any preparations. Got tired of repeated sayings and foul language. Don't recommend this book.
Darby Thorne, a college student, has been stranded by a blizzard at a highway rest stop in the middle of nowhere.
She will need to spend the night with four strangers.
With no phone signal and trapped because of the snow, Darby does not know which one of the strangers is the kidnapper.Wow. What a terrific read this book turned out to be.
I would like to think that if like Darby, I was caught up in a similar situation I would do the right thing.
This is a well written book that has lots of action.
Having no choice but to seek shelter and wait out the storm Darby spots a sign for a rest area ahead and makes her way to the building.
After arriving at the rest area Darby finds a few other stranded travelers also seeking shelter from the storm inside the building.
Just what should Darby do in the middle of nowhere with no way to get help?I can easily give my first warning when it comes to reading No Exit by Taylor Adams...do not pick this book up thinking I'm just going to read a few chapters before bed just to check it out.
A kidnapped little girl locked in a stranger's van.
What would you do?Darby Thorne is a college student stranded by a blizzard at a highway rest stop in the middle of nowhere.
She’ll have to spend the night in the rest stop with four complete strangers.
There is no cell phone reception, no telephone, no way out because of the snow, and she doesn’t know which one of the other travelers is the kidnapper.The very first twist left me breathless, and trust me, that's not the only bolt out of the blue.
Please please make NO EXIT into a movie, thank you very much.
2.5/5 stars - 50 pages in, I DESPISED this book. How can I be scared by a villain who is constantly farting? However, I was more engrossed the more I read, and it was an overall decent thriller. I probably won't remember this a year from now, but I needed something fast paced, and this did the trick.
Our main character Darby gets stuck at a rest stop in Colorado on the way to visit her family, and she meets four strangers at a rest stop, and in the parking lot she sees a child locked in a cage with duct tape over her mouth in the back of a van.
Sometimes I wanted to slap Darby for her decisions because I just felt so invested in what was happening and my heart was fucking racing and alksjdlkajs ANXIETY.
It has that same home-invasion feel to it and the horror in this book is pretty horrific to read about and isn't for the light-hearted.
Fast paced with a really cool and direct premise....but (see full review down below)A.J. Fucking Finn also blurbed it and im shoook??!__THIS BOOK HAS SUCH A FUCKING HIGH RATING HERE ON GOODREADS.....??!!....Like seriously, literally broken because this was nowhere as good as I though it was going to be.
But this book.
But it wasn't that good either.
It was actually kinda c h e e e s y.I think the worst of it for me was the writing and the sort of unrealistic scenarios (that ending wtf) but......I really liked the main character, Darby, and her knack for survival.
Why I love itby Liberty HardyHoly cats—this pulse-pounding thriller will have you on the edge of your seat!
College student Darby Thorne is stranded in a remote highway rest stop with four strangers during a blizzard.
While retrieving something from her car, she discovers a young girl locked in a van in the parking lot.
Which of the four strangers inside the rest stop owns the van?
And how can Darcy rescue her without tipping off the kidnapper and potentially getting everyone killed?Fans of Joe Hill and A.J. Finn will love this book.
WHAT THE BLOODY HELL WAS THAT!!!!Unfortunately I DNF at 30% the plot was ridiculous Darby was an irritating character & if you were stuck in a blizzard WHY WOULDNT YOU HAVE A PLAN B?? For heavens sake Miss Taylor get the plot right UGhhh This was one forgettable book WOULD NOT RECOMMEND.
Η περίληψη στο οπισθόφυλλο είναι αρκετά ιντριγκαδόρικη και η ατμόσφαιρα το βιβλίου είναι  σκοτεινή και κρατάει τον αναγνώστη σε εγρήγορση. Είναι μια καλοδουλεμένη ιστορία με σωστές δόσεις σασπένς και αγωνίας. Απόλαυσα την ανάγνωσή  του αφου δεν μπορούσα να αφήσω το βιβλίο από τα χέρια μου!!
Who would've guessed a full-length novel entirely set on a rest stop could be that thrilling, especially considering the bad guy reveals himself relatively early into the book?Sure, there wasn't much of an elaborate plot, Adams went totally over the top with the "NOOOOOO" moments, the protagonist was stupid and kept making the dumbest decisions, and I often felt like I was reading the script of a 90's teen slasher movie where, no matter how fast you are, the bad guy always catches up with you.But still, I had such an amazing time reading this.
Wow...This book will keep you on the edge of your seat! A fantastic, suspenseful thriller!
Ένα βιβλίο το οποίο αμέσως μου έκανε κλικ , μόλις διάβασα το οπισθόφυλλο , σε συνδυασμό με την φοβερή βαθμολογία που έχει εδώ, στο goodreads.
Και επίσης πολύ σημαντικό (πέραν των υπερβολών στην εξέλιξη, που βέβαια υπάρχουν και σε πολλά άλλα βιβλία ) δεν με ικανοποίησε-ευχαρίστησε η όλη εξέλιξη της υπόθεσης.Οπότε, για μένα, είναι ένα ναι μεν συμπαθητικό βιβλίο, αλλά σε καμία περίπτωση δεν συμμερίζομαι τον τεράστιο βαθμό (4,21 την στιγμή που γράφω την κριτική) που έχει στο goodreads.
Ίσως να μπορούσα να βάλω και τρία αστεράκια , αλλά κατέληξα στα δύο, κυρίως διότι το ξεκίνησα με πολλές προσδοκίες, για τις οποίες δεν ανταποκρίθηκε τελικά το βιβλίο.
Brutal! :D Adorei! Opinião em breve
I was trying to rush through my TBR list as fast as I could to reach this one and I'm so very glad that I read it.It had a very similar feel to An Unwanted Guest by Shari Lapena which is by far one of my favorite books that I've read this year.
What would you do if you saw a nine year old girl trapped in a dog cage in someone's car in the freezing cold weather?
I read this lying in my bed all warm because the book's weather made me cold!
I've never read anything like this book before and that's what made it stand out!The plot and twists in this novel did not stop coming.
Δύο άτομα που εμπιστεύομαι τις επιλογές τους έγραψαν καλά λόγια και το αγόρασα δίχως πολλά πολλά και για καλή μου τύχη βγήκα πολύ ευχαριστημένος.Το χωρίς διέξοδο (No exit) είναι ένα αγωνιώδες θρίλερ που διαδραματίζεται σε μία μόνο νύχτα, με ηρωίδα τη δευτεροετή φοιτήτρια Καλών Τεχνών, Ντάρμπι.
Είναι πολύ καλογραμμένο για το είδος του και δεν με εκπλήσσει που η Twenty Century Fox έχει πάρει τα δικαιώματα για να το κάνει ταινία - το ύφος ταιριάζει τέλεια για ένα παγωμένο θρίλερ.Όσο περνάει η ώρα, η Ντάρμπι αρχίζει να γνωρίζει τα άτομα που βρίσκονται εγκλωβισμένα, προσπαθώντας να δημιουργήσει συμμαχίες για να γλιτώσει το μικρό κοριτσάκι από τα αδίστακτα χέρια του απαγωγέα.
Darby, a college student pulls over at this rest stop as her old Honda isn’t going to make it much farther.
At the rest stop are 4 other people taking shelter inside.
First, she has to figure out which of the 4 people inside is holding the little girl hostage, and then how she is going to rescue the child, all she knows is that she must.
This all takes place in a period of 24 hours, with the time of day displayed at the top of each chapter.I wouldn’t say this is crafted in the likes of experienced writers such as Harlan Coben, yet this was pretty darn good.
I am even more picky with thrillers, that is my favorite genre so you either roll with the suspense or get a nasty review.
What in the blue hell was this?
There was no characterization, just an annoying main character stuck in a blizzard, not knowing what to do.
Where the hell did she came from?
Granted there are a few thrillers with the exception to this role but not many.The pacing was rushed and the only 'exit' was me moving the hell out.UGHHHHHHH!Of course it has rave reviews, what a surprise..sometimes I wonder if people just buy the hype without reading themselves.NEXT!!!
Πριν κάτι μήνες έμαθα ότι θα κυκλοφορούσε το συγκεκριμένο θρίλερ στα ελληνικά από τις εκδόσεις Κλειδάριθμος και αμέσως έψαξα για περισσότερες πληροφορίες και κριτικές, γιατί δεν ήξερα τίποτα απολύτως για το βιβλίο ή για τον συγγραφέα που το έγραψε.
Πριν λίγες μέρες κυκλοφόρησε τελικά, το αγόρασα, και τώρα το διάβασα ουσιαστικά σε δυο καθισιές.Τι μας λέει η περίληψη στο οπισθόφυλλο της ελληνικής έκδοσης: "Τι θα έκανες για να σώσεις ένα εγκλωβισμένο κορίτσι από τον απαγωγέα του, ενώ βρίσκεσαι στη μέση του πουθενά μέσα στη χιονοθύελλα; Η Ντάρμπι Θορν, φοιτήτρια κολλεγίου, ακινητοποιείται από μια ξαφνική χιονοθύελλα σε ένα πάρκινγκ της εθνικής οδού στη μέση του πουθενά, ενώ πηγαίνει στην άρρωστη μητέρα της.
Read over the course of a day.I loved Darbys character and her initial thought process of the people
Este livro é brutal!!
Na minha aventura pelos thrillers (que ainda é curta) nunca tinha apanhado um livro destes.
No entanto, preciso mesmo de deixar aqui a minha opinião enquanto tenho a história fresca na minha mente.Este é o primeiro livro de Taylor Adams e, devo dizer que, ele teve um começo arrebatador.
Tanto que, pelo que tenho conhecimento, este livro será adaptado ao cinema e, ainda eu não sabia disso e já pensava "Ena...
Eu acho que é e vai ser um filme que não vou perder.Opinião Completahttps://sinfoniadoslivros.blogspot.co...
Este foi um livro muito bem estruturado de início ao fim que deixa sempre o leitor a querer saber mais e mais. Fala sobre um tema atual: rapto de crianças, em que os raptores não pensam nas consequências porque só estão focados no dinheiro e, neste caso, nem têm medo de matar alguém para alcançar os seus objetivos. Suspense de início ao fim.
Ant įtempto siužeto trilerių mano kabliukas dažniausiai nekimba, nes jie visada persiskaito greitai, greitai ir išsitrina iš atminties.
Bet jei norite kokį vakarą paskirti greitam puslapių vertimui, tai ši knyga puikus pasirinkimas.
Jaudulio tikrai sukėlė, ir, kaip anotacijoj žadėjo, nepaleido iki paskutinio sakinio.
Susimąsčiau, kaip būtų, jei man atsitiktų taip, kaip pagrindinei veikėjai Derbei.
Buvo detalių, kurios ir neįtikino, pvz., iphone'as neįprastai ilgai veikė su vos keliom baterijos padalom, bet, nu ką gali žinoti, gal taip būna :D Visgi, tikrai rekomenduoju, autorius labai gerose vietose sudėjo tuos plot twist'us, kurie vis prikaustydavo dėmesį iš naujo :)

And even if Darby can get her out of the vehicle with no help for miles will they be able to stay alive long enough to be rescued.OMG,this really is a fast paced roller coaster ride.After spending a few pages getting to know Darby,the reader is launched into a danger packed,adrenaline ride that rockets along and grips the reader so tightly that you sometimes have difficulty breathing.
4.5 stars rounded up because I’ve never been this stressed reading a book. Ever. I had to put it down so my heart could get some rest. If you want to read a thriller that actually has THRILLS then I’d recommend this one.
4.5 ☆ It’s hard to believe a story based at a snow bound rest stop taking place in only a day could be anything but interesting but it was.. and it’s endorsed by Liberty so I knew I had to pick this one up (of course!) I enjoyed its lively suspensive twists and main character Darby (even without a plan B) is the perfect heroine! Fair warning there’s a good amount of grisly details so if you’re squeamish you may want to skim through those parts.
**4 Goodreads Stars**Taylor Adam's No Exit is a keep-you-on-your-toes thriller that mixes classic storytelling with contemporary high-velocity suspense novel pacing. It's been forever since I  read a thriller that was so scary I had to put it down at night. No Exit had so many skin-crawling twists and turns that I ended up reading most of it during the day!This book is basically one of my worst fears made real. I used to live in a remote, rural part of the inland Pacific Northwest (United States
had so many skin-crawling twists and turns that I ended up reading most of it during the day!This book is basically one of my worst fears made real.
Rest stops were the only places where I encountered other human beings, and when you are driving for hours on end to get from one small city to another, you have to stop to go to the restroom.
Is her guilt and mind playing tricks on her, or is something absolutely horrific taking place at the rest stop?
This was a really good book. I was reluctant to read it, everyone basically in one room (a rest area). And it started out interesting, but not special. However, pretty quickly the pace picked up. Excellent book, imagine you are stranded in the snow with a child kidnaper among the few people in the rest area with you. There is plenty of action, and I loved heroine's quirky hobby.
