https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7928.More_All_of_a_Kind_Family
For now I’m skipping 2 and 5, though I might go back and read book 2 at some point.I love this family.
In my opinion, this is the best kind of historical fiction, a wonderful story with interesting characters (based on the author’s family) and getting a feeling for how they lived in another place & time.Even though this book works fine for a standalone book, I really feel that the first book should be read first.
It’s a perfect book for a chapter a night bedtime reading.
Oh, now this one stands up to the re-read. Lovely, lovely book. Evocative of the Lower East Side, poised before the First World War. The family is doing better financially, and there's The Wedding to look forward to and be part of. My favorite bit in this book is when Charlie goes downstairs to solemnly tell the shopkeeper, "My mama don't smile on me." This one gets tucked back on the shelf for certain.
The All-of-a-Kind Family return in this second delightful tale - and yes, despite the effort of some to re-order these by chronology, More All-of-a-Kind Family is the second book! - and their adventures here are more fun, more amusing, more poignant, and more heartwarming than in their first, the eponymous  All-of-a-Kind Family ! The book opens with the marvelous "Lena the Greena" chapter, which introduces the titular Lena who, in an act of bravery, saves (view spoiler)[Little Charlie, who has w
! The book opens with the marvelous "Lena the Greena" chapter, which introduces the titular Lena who, in an act of bravery, saves (view spoiler)[Little Charlie, who has wandered into the street, right into the path of an oncoming carriage (hide spoiler)].
There is a deepening of feeling in More All-of-a-Kind Family that is immensely moving, a sense that the people being depicted are real, walking right out of the 1910s, across the pages of the book, and into my heart.
Then I get teary again (EVERY SINGLE TIME) when he maintains that they, the All-of-a-Kind Family, have never been poor, because they have had each other.
Returning to these delightful characters is like visiting with old friends.Everyone is growing up, and Charlie is no longer a baby. It's fun to read about the Jewish traditions, and life on the East Side. There's excitement, laughter, tears, and a bit of romance in this book (though not what you might except at first).I will be rereading this again, I'm sure.
I squealed aloud when I saw this in my library's list of downloadable audio books. I've loved it forever, and listening to it as I drifted off to sleep several nights running was sheer delight. What I noticed this time (view spoiler)[ was how Taylor bookended the beginning and the ending scenes with such skill. (hide spoiler)] The girls are so real, and Charlie so endearing. Heartily recommended.
lizzie: i love this book, but there are many sad parts.
These books were my childhood. <3
Ella is excited to go to the library each week because there is a boy there that she can tell likes her.
A girl gets giddy and giggly around a boy.
Boys and girls are hanging out and dancing together.
A boy and girl go on a date together.
Of an older woman: “She pulled the torn and soiled blouse down over her full bosom.” Girls make a joke about how a woman is big-chested.For a full cleanliness report, which includes Attitudes/Disobedience, Conversation Topics and Parent Takeaway, visit my website.
Visit my website: The Book Radar.
Another great set of stories, as little brother Charlie, now 3, gets to share in the adventures of his older sisters. Life in World War I era New York is perilous; there is a near traffic fatality, a serious health scare, and worrisome news from abroad. Yet romance blooms for Ella (in the library!) and for sweet, schlubby Uncle Hyman.
The best thing about these books is the lingering, loving way she describes meals. The making-latkes episode is one of the most exciting things I've read in months. Overall, not quite as charming as the first. Least expected sentence:'"I'd better get out my Prince Albert," Papa said.'
From Michael: In Michael's opinion it is the best of the first three books.
อบอุน นุมนวล ดีตอใจ
อบอุ่น นุ่มนวล ดีต่อใจ
The children of an immigrant family enjoy their times together with gusto and humor as they celebrate their Jewish faith and life in the lower East Side of New York City in the early 1900s.
The charming story of the continuing adventures of this growing-up Jewish family.
It was interesting to see the family celebrate some of the Jewish holiday's and how the kids interact with one another now that they are a bit older.
A few things I did not as much like, being a Christian girl, was the celebration of Yom Kippur.
The real part that bothered me was the family all laughed after this and the author shared that the *father* had learned his lesson - with nothing about the daughter learning to obey her parents.
I wasn't sure if I had read this before, but as the story progressed a lot of it started to come back to me.
Like the first book, it's a collection of chronological incidents in the family's life.
I am also still wondering how having a junk business yields enough profit for the family to live comfortably, escape to the seashore during a citywide epidemic, and eventually move to a bigger home and get new furniture.
These stories are so warm, loving, gentle, and humorous that any time spent with this family is always a delight.
I know we owned the first book, Uptown and Downtown, and I'm pretty sure I've read Ella, but I'm just not sure about More All-of-a-Kind Family.
I feel like I remember Gertie learning to tell time, and Uncle Hyman's girlfriend, but I have no recollection of Ella first meeting Jules (though I remember him from Uptown).
That said, I liked it very much.
After Downtown (which was written later, but set earlier), it was refreshing to go back to the familiar charming tone that Taylor created in the first book.
It's very nearly the same time period, but oh, so different in many ways.
Another of the All-of-a-Kind series that we listened to on CD.
It's hard not to love these books, especially as the reader does great accents and has a voice full of emotion.
I particularly like that they introduce Logan to Jewish life and customs without being obvious or acutely educational.
They're funny too.
And they incorporate the times in terms of illnesses, wars, poverty, etc.
In short, they make turn-of-the-century immigrant NY come alive.
We'll get to that wonderful book too, but at six, I don't think Logan is ready for the drunken dad and the darker parts of tenement living.
I can't say enough about this series of books. I read them all as a child and we just finished listening to this one on audiobook. My two sons LOVED it and I enjoyed it just as much as when I was little. The story holds up well and my sons asked many wonderful questions afterward about the different ways that various religions celebrate. My favorite part of these books as a child was learning about all of the Jewish holidays.
Delightful stories in which mundane events become wonderful adventures because they are seen with a child's fresh eyes. I loved this series when I first encountered it as a preteen. I still love it and still love the genuinely admirable family values portrayed: loyalty, kindness, tolerance, good humor. Note that hatred is absent from the list.
Wonderful continuation of the story of a Jewish family during the early 20th century. The author wrote these stories later in her life, based on her own upbringing, which has a lot to do with their authenticity. Looking forward to the next book in the series, and to finding out what happens as the children continue to grow up.
We listened to this in the car. I always appreciate the storytelling power of these simple family stories. This book deals with serious topics, like polio and an uncle who has trouble wooing his girlfriend, but somehow they are written in a way that feels very accessible to young children! This is a talent.
More of the same, just as enjoyable, as the first book in this 1950's series about the early 1900's Jewish family in NY. Particularly interesting to read with my girls (elementary age) with regards to an epidemic that their family deals with indirectly. Good historical fiction for this age group.
I rated this book so high largely for the sake of nostalgia. I remember reading this book (well actually the whole series) more than once as a child and being fascinated by a family full of five girls...just like mine.
Another of this wonderful series.
This was as good as the first. This is a series not to be missed!
These dips into early twentieth century Jewish culture are great exposure for those unfamiliar. The curfew story is quite entertaining. Certainly worth the time to read to a young daughter.
These never get old! LOVE them!
Perhaps my FAVORITE book when I was about 10 years old!! So happy to have found it again the year we did Sonlight!!
A wonderful book. Not as good as the first in the series but sometimes it is hard to see beloved characters grow and change
Yet at the same time, it doesn't feel insurmountably dark--perhaps because the family supports and loves Lena so thoroughly.Other stories in the book feature the observance of Yom Kippur, the celebration of Hanukkah, Gertie claiming that she can tell time and then having to do so, a May Day party (portrayed on the cover) that gets rained out but still manages to be a success, and Ella's introduction to Jules, who will become her boyfriend.One warning.
It's quite literally the only time that any child gets hit in the books, and the girls, Charlie and their parents are shown to be an exceptionally loving family.
