https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/26114463-nevernight
"The three suns hanging on a chain about his throat tried to gleam, but the clouds in the crying sky told them no." If I were to write a review in the style of this book, it would begin something like this:I turned these pieces of former tree, the midnight ink recounting a narrative tumefied by metaphoric wanderings. It pained, O readers, it pained! Persevere, I thought. Quitting now would be a mark of failure, like a baby bird that flutters its wings for the very first time, stretching them ou
If I were to write a review in the style of this book, it would begin something like this:I turned these pieces of former tree, the midnight ink recounting a narrative tumefied by metaphoric wanderings.
I once said that Shatter Me was not a novel; it was a collection of similes and metaphors that do not make sense.
A collection of similes and metaphors that do not make sense.
Lots of descriptions, overuse of similes and metaphors (did I mention that they don't make sense?) until I had no idea what was going on.

I hurt myself writing that.Do you like descriptions?
Books in which a love scene is dragged out in excrutiating minutiae and flowery language so flowery you could choke on the scent (see what I did there?
I have rarely read a love scene so overblown and contrived as the --honestly, I don't know what to call it -- thing at the beginning of this book.
To sum it up: the writing is atrocious (to me, who knows, you might like it), the plot is convoluted and barely detectable between the clusterfuckery of purple prose.Reader, I abandoned this book.
F*ck. Me.
This is a new favourite.*EDIT*Upon a re-read, definitely a favourite. O, Pale Daughter, you have my heart.*EDIT 2*Still 5 stars after my third read. LOVE.
you know what’s really fun and in style right now? rereading that book you've only read a year ago because you're gay and crave that f/f foe romance and you miss your favorite lady arch enemies
I can’t… finish this.Just thinking about it makes my head ache.The writing is so… thick.
This was my first Jay Kristoff book, one I was looking extremely forward to, but boy do I want to stay away from this author in the future.
Alas, I felt no connection to her whatsoever and couldn’t even cheer her on her killings – which I’m usually glad to do, for antiheroes.Sometimes I feel a little sad about not finishing a book, but in this case?
Re-read on Audible in preparation for Godsgrave. I love Mia!  She was atop him, knees pinning him down. His hand on her wrist and her stiletto at his throat. An age passed, somewhere between struggling and hissing and biting and begging, and finally the blade sank home, sharp and so astonishingly hard, sinking through is neck and scraping his spine. He drew sucking breath, perhaps to speak (but what could he say?) and she could see it in his eyes--pain, pain, O, Daughters, it hurt. It was inside
Along the way she meets a boy named Tric and I fell right in love with him.
Mia and Tric were allies and a little bit of a love interest.
Mia and Tric do make it to the Red Church and they have to go through many trials.
I have to say one of the memorable characters in the book for me is a horse Mia named Bastard.
At one point Mia has to go up for a trial and she doesn't do what everyone expects so she is going to go on a little hiatus.
4.5 stars  The brighter the light, the deeper the shadow. Mia Corvere used to be the daughter of a respectable family but all that changes when her father is strung up for leading a rebellion.  'Never Flinch.' A cold whisper in her ear. 'Never fear. And never, ever forget.'The girl nodded slowly.Exhaled the hope inside.  Just ten years old, Mia watches her father dance at the end of a rope and silently swears revenge upon them all. But in order to extract her revenge, she first needs training. F
I loved the World Building, the Tone and the Side Characters.
With Mia and the other assassins going on adventures and misadventures, the whole book ended up being far more lighthearted than I imagined.Beauty you're born with, but brains you earn.There were areas where I was surprised by the violence but the main character had such a cute-yet-deadly take on things that the book was not overbearingly dark.The Side CharactersThis is an absolutely amazing.
His ruthlessness towards the world and his love for his human made him absolutely perfect.And who could resist that little the bit of romance blooming between Tric and Mia (though, with that ending...ooooo....Kristoff has a lot of explaining to do!).OverallReally, truly enjoyed this one.
There seems to be some confusion on the YA/not YA nature of this book, so let the record show, in response to the question, "Are your books YA or not?" on his website FAQ, Kristoff replied: THE NEVERNIGHT CHRONICLE is a different beast. The protagonist is a sixteen year old girl. Does that automatically make it YA? My editors say “Definitely not, and who the hell let you out of your cage? Get back to work”.These books are about an assassin. They are, as you may expect, somewhat violent as a resu
And yet I’m sure she’d still find a way to kill me if she knew I put these words to paper.
*goosebumps*Mia Covere's tale reminded me a bit of Arya Stark's: a girl whose family is destroyed by politics and hands grasping at power, stumbles into a follower of a most murderous god(dess), and becomes his apprentice.
She's a girl with a shadow dark enough for two.You: WTF does that mean?Me: READ THE BOOK.And how many 
Kristoff calls Mia an assassin who is to death what a maestro is to a symphony, but I felt the same way about Kristoff's manipulation of words and language.
UPDATE  : Because it seems that Nevernight wasn't shitty enough as it was, it also shows problematic rep for Maori. Please read Anjulie's brilliant post about it.MY EYES, O, MY EYES! O, gentlefriends, you may not approve of my decision to rate Nevernight with a severe and lonely star given the fact that I failed to finish it. But I tried, O, gentlefriends, trust me, I tried, yet completing the task of reading all 18,695 pages of this wonder-There are only 448 pages...Oh, FUCK OFF, the cat "who
While I do believe that they can add a poetic touch to a novel, if I start highlighting them, it either means that : a) they're overused ; b) they don't make any kind of sense ; c) they make me forget the story to focus on the prose, as if the writer was tapping me on the shoulder in a "I am so clever, am I not?" fashion.Some of them made me roll my eyes."Mia caught her temper by the collar, gave it a good hard shake.
As much as I wanted to love Nevernight, whose blurb made it sound so captivating, I cannot stand this writing and it spoiled my read.
I already knew that I loved Jay Kristoff’s writing after his contribution to The Illuminae Files series, but I had no idea just how much I would adore his distinct writing voice, the characters and worlds he weaves, or the tremendously emotional stakes and risks that would come into play throughout the course of this brilliant novel.
Mia is an assassin (in training) who can do alllll kinds of cool shit with her shadow.And she has a talking cat.How do you get better than that?How about using an actual blood bath to travel around!?Yeah.
Sure, it's not exactly as quick or clean as pressing a button on your suit and saying, Beam me up, Scotty!, but we are talking about assassins in a world of magic, after all.Ok. I was expecting this to be all dark and stabby - and it was!
But I really loved it and thought it gave the story a different sort of spin to have all the darkness sitting there beside the silliness.
(Also is currently breaking plates in the background.) Look I'm not fond of reading sex scenes anyway, but that wasn't the problem for me: the problem was there was literally no plot happening about 2/3rds through the book because all we had was Mia thinking about seeeeeex all the time.
But excellent writing and characters and EXCELLENT SASS and excellent amounts of the #stabstabstab outweighs the negatives for me so I shall be over here, wishing I had a talking cat, and also petting the beauty that is the hardcover copy omg.*** QUOTES ***"If I were going to name my blade," Mia said thoughtfully, "I'd call it 'Fluffy'."Tric snorted with laughter.
“The last thing you will ever be in this world, girl, is someone’s hero.
But you will be a girl heroes fear.”  I feel like this book is extremely polarizing but if you love it, you will love it completely and whole heartedly.
If you love it, you won’t be able to put it down.
If you love it, you will probably consider it one of the best book you’ll read all year.
I loved it so much.
I loved it so much.
Even though, when I look through my friends’ reviews, I feel like I’m in the minority.
but it still feels a little bad while you’re reading this story, even if the Dweymeri are not direct representatives of the Māori.
I, also, do not want anyone to think that I’m making excuses for it, because I am definitely not even though I did love this book.
I’m not sure the last time I read a book in a fantasy series that did that.
Like, all I want in my reading life is girl assassins loving each other and saving the world, and this book doesn’t disappoint, even though the main "love" story is hetero.
Nevernight, gentlefriends, is an O, so bloody piece of Art.It is not for the faint-hearted. It is not a Young Adult book. It does not feature noble heroes, polished by their acts of kindness. It is a story of   killers  A tale of the vicious fight between   Light and DarknessAnd in the shadows cast by the Lady of Blessed Murder, her faithful servants thrive.Source “You'll be a rumour. A whisper. The thought that wakes the bastards of this world sweating in the nevernight. The last thing you will
Nevernight, gentlefriends, is an O, so bloody piece of Art.It is not for the faint-hearted.
She sang the Song of Death, bathed in Blood, called the Shadows that bowed to her will.
Nevernight, gentlefriends, is a gritty saga.
But mind that this is not necessarily a bad thing, gentlefriends.
You will want to hurt Jay Kristoff, gentlefriends, the way he hurt you with a seething passion.
But if you yearn for a dark tale featuring assassins, smut, ancient magic and a dream of revenge, Mister Kristoff awaits to serve you the delicious and grim story of Mia Corvere.*Imperio!
I think it's important to let other readers know if I received a book for free, or was sent it for comment, or if it was written by a friend.
I hope that I don't let such things affect how I read a book, but in these days of commercial hype, I think it's best to be completely transparent!So, I was sent this book by the editor.
And born of that loss, gains a dark companion to her days.(Wow. So hard to write this well without a bunch of spoilers!)She decides to seek the skills she will need both for vengeance and in the hopes she can rescue some of those she has lost.
“The books we love, they love us back. And just as we mark our places in the pages, those pages leave their marks on us. I can see it in you, sure as I see it in me. You're a daughter of the words. A girl with a story to tell.”WOW. I don’t think that I have any coherent thoughts at the moment. What an addicting novel! This was just a rollercoaster ride from start to finish. I started off enjoying the exquisite writing style and then, the story crescendoed into something more, keeping me perched
I started off enjoying the exquisite writing style and then, the story crescendoed into something more, keeping me perched at the edge of my seat in anticipation of what’s to come.
And never, ever forget.”'In order to avenge her family, however, Mia must acquire training in the brutal art of assassination.
I will admit though, that it took me until Chapter 8, before I fell head-over-heels for this book, because it took a while to get accustomed to the purple prose-esque writing style (very much in the vein of Laini Taylor, in my opinion…but x 100!) and the abundance of footnotes.
my loyal followers: Elise, why are you giving five stars to a book that took you almost four months to readme, grabbing this book and hiding it in my jacket: I do what I wantListen, guys, it's an actual rating of  4 1/2 Stars,  but I’d pitch this book as Hogwarts for assassins and I enjoyed it so much. ♔ This is a book about becoming yourself, on more levels than one. It’s about developing an ethical code when you’ve had it trained out of you, and synthesizing your childhood self and your self a
While I found parts interesting, especially the footnotes - I know people complain about those but they were the only thing I liked - on the whole, the initial section was too long, had little to no tension, was totally overwritten even compared to the rest of the book, and offered barely any character development compared to worldbuilding.
I got spoiled about one of the twists and still a) loved the book and b) think it’s a brilliant twist.Listen, guys, after the admittedly crappy first 100 pages, I just could not put this down.
I expected the blood, guts, gore, and the lack of apology for it all that I expected and didn't get with Throne of Glass (although I liked that one).So, with me expecting a DARK book, I expected a tone that matched.But what I got was this weird, almost campy and satirical humor threaded tone, made worse by perhaps the weirdest thing I have EVER seen in a fiction novel...people who have read this know exactly what I'm talking about, cause seriously...What the fuck with the footnotes, GENTLEFRIENDS?No, I mean seriously...look at this:What fresh hell is this?If the odd tone and the narration style wasn't enough, adding footnotes that not only broke the fourth wall but made me feel like I was oscillating between reading for FUN and reading a textbook for NOT FUN did not help matters any, that's for sure.
FULL REVIEW POSTED AND FANART:i went into this expecting lots of hilarious banter, gore, multiple deaths and all-around feels andigotthemall ??? you see, my expectations just can't be this accurate ...well, here goes nothing *ehem* did you, mr. kristoff, really have to overwhelm me with so much 💩 in so little time and get away with it? whatever it is, i’m weak and i would love it if you could send me a not-cat to drink my anxiety that  you  so blatantly caused in the first place. yeah, i’m also
It can take a little while to get used to but it’s written from a third-person omniscient point of view with footnotes integrated which are, by the way, hilarious like 85% of the time.
Moreover, this book is both character and politically driven so definitely expect development, lots of banter and raw emotions between characters, and ultimately, a bunch of deaths."…he fears…," whispered Mister Kindly from her shadow.
please, i’m begginggggg, read it so that you can know where i'm coming from and surely with enough devout readers, we can open up our own school and avenge pain aka jay kristoff.
always a good sign when you totally forget you're reading a book---------------my hobbies include: giving into YA hype but like 2 years after everyone else read it---------------my favorite reviewers have spoken. (@may @emma)it is time to add this to my tbr. where it will probably remain for months
2.5/5  “Never Flinch.' A cold whisper in her ear. 'Never fear. And never, ever forget."  This is honestly the hardest book for me to rate/review. I hated it so much but loved it at the same time. So I'm still sitting on the fence about my rating, I think 2.5 stars is the fairest rating for this book, not great but not terrible. Firstly I must mention the writing, I just don't know how to feel about it, I'm leaning more towards hate. The writing itself is very flowery and descriptive, it's full o
If I were to right now look past the writing and rate the story I would give it four stars, despite containing the whole school/competition trope and having a mean girl bully like every book these days, it was interesting, the magic system is definitely unique and I'm happy with the character development.
Pretty much an okay read for me, I think most people would love this book tho.
I actually love all three covers, like they are probably one of my all time favorite book covers.
I think this book could be my future husband.
in book 2)• savagery at its finest ("If you'd like to go somewhere and quietly fuck yourself, I'll be waiting here patiently for your return.")• femme power af• A+ Characters, A+ Dialogue, A+ Plot, A+ EVERYTHINGyou know when you read a book and you're like damn i'm never going to write a book bc this one exists and everything else will pale in comparison bc i, as a [lazy piece of shit that has actually already given up 3 years ago] writer, can only dream of creating something so riveting and intoxicating as this.i feel like i garnered a third* emotion called holy shit bc that's all i'm feeling towards  nevernight, and i want people to join me in my bedazzlement (*the only other two emotions i'm capable of feeling are anxious and discombobulated, and they both apply to this book as well)now, let me give you a literal recap of the last few hundred pages:me: [screams]my dad: did another one die?me: jepa big fuck you @ jay kristoff (in a loving, admiring way tho) bc i feel like everything i love and care for is immediately endangered when in his presence like................
Audible 4th of July Sale until 07July18 $5.95Re-Read Time, I might have liked this more the 2nd time through. I do love it when you know where something is going and can now see all the clues that were laid out for you along the way. Makes the journey just that more enjoyable.Buddy read with the crew at  Buddies Books and Baubles  on Nov 6th. ╰⊰✿Favorite of 2016✿⊱╮  I wasn’t quite sure what to expect when I jumped into this book since many of my Goodreads friends either completely LOVED or total
BUT…if you didn’t like the way it started because of the prose I will say hang in there gentlefriend because by chapter 3 or 4 I think you will be hooked on the story and on Mia.
Nevernight will take a minute to get into but the worldbuilding is much easier to connect with and I didn’t need a lot of pages before I was completely committed to the story.ஓ What I loved in this book ஓ❤ -Mia is an assassin to love.❤ I remember reading Throne of Glass and thinking the entire time I wish she would quit telling me what a great assassin she is and show me something.
Find me on Instagram & Twitter!  ❝The pages in your hands speak of a girl who was to murder as maestros are to music. Who did to happy ever afters what a sawblade does to skin... A girl named Pale Daughter. Or Kingmaker. Or Crow. But most often, nothing at all. A killer of killers, whose tally of endings only the goddess and I truly know...❞  A big thank you to St. Martin's Press for sending me an advance copy of Nevernight to review!Note: Nevernight contains strong language, violence, blood
Once I got a taste of the first few chapters, I started to understand the struggle that some readers were having with Nevernight.Sadly, the beginning of the story went by painfully slow.
The writing doesn't necessarily get any better but reading becomes much easier as the book progresses.Once the actual story started going, the twists and turns never stopped coming!
This whole group of assassins-to-be would literally be squad goals if they ever decided to stop trying killing one another!There was very little romance in Nevernight much to my disappointment since I am, in fact, a sucker for being a hopeless romantic.
There are sex scenes that are SUPER steamy and described in great detail, and there is a fair amount of strong language and gory murder, however if you currently read more mature YA/New Adult books, you'll probably be okay with this!Nevernight follows the story of a girl named Mia, who wants revenge on those who executed her father and attends a school which trains you to be a full-fledged murderer.
The students at this school are taught everything from blade work to the art of seduction and the result is, as you could guess, very, very bloody (and it's fantastic).The writing in Nevernight will likely make it or break it for you if you plan on reading this.
Her mother and younger brother are then imprisoned; Mia would have been too if she didn't have her dark friend Mister Kindly.Raised by Mercurio, trained in the arts of assassinations, poisons, sword wielding and fighting, she makes it into the Red Church.
A school like setting where the initiates are taught all the skills required to become Blades - aka assassins and skilled murderers.This novel was full of violence and bloodshed, so do keep that in mind if it would bother you.
We follow Mia as she competes with the other Acolytes to ensure a place as a Blade, making friends and enemies along the way.The twist at the end was really good, I thought.
But if you said the main theme was stabbing in your SAT test I just don’t frankly think you’d be wrong.Mia, as our protagonist, drives the story along with three other great supporting characters: Mister Kindly, Tric and our mysterious narrator with their many, many delicious footnotes.
Don’t touch me!As for our narrator, I feel like it’s humour and the many, many world building details included in the footnotes really brings this story to life.
Right when you started to feel bogged down in world building and such, Kristoff throws in some stabbing or some sex to liven it up.
I loved the dark tone of this book.
This has actually given me book depression because it ended and now, what will I read?
dark, heroism, friendship, sex (not the fade to black kind either), lots of stabby stabby.
It's truly epic.Think about all the female assassins you've read about in YA and think about how they would be if they weren't watered down.
It's a lot edgier than most YA I've read.
Thank you Netgalley and St. Martin's for providing a digital copy of this to read and review!!!
Netgalley and St. Martin's approved me!"School of assassins?" Yes, sign me up please!
