https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12716010-rapture
No. I won't even lie, I completely skimmed over parts and read through it just to get to some actual plot progression, because let me tell you something: if there was ever a zombie apocalypse, Luce and Daniel would so be getting eaten first, because they are as slow as  fuck  even at what is essentially the  end of the world.
I actually would have liked it better if she had actually been someone Daniel had fallen in love with  after  he fell; one of the main reasons I was still kind of hoping for this book to be good was seeing the first time they had met  on Earth  maybe sometime right after he fell and Luce taking care of him or something and just getting more of their beginning backstory  period.
On the dust jacket, Luce and Daniel's sweeping romance reads like an epic, beautiful love story.
And Bethany Church.It all goes down like this: in order to find the original site of the Fall, Luce and the gang have to track down three relics that are required to complete a ritual wherein the blood of a sacrifice reveals an ancient map of the world, starred with the point on the earth where the angels fell at the dawn of time.
Luce is trying to talk Lucifer down, and the world is going to end, and the author doesn't know how to tie it up it so God appears and says "ENOUGH!" and then everything is fixed.
Dear Lauren Kate,  If you somehow miraculously kill off Luce ,  I'll give you five stars ? (: * Edit:* (view spoiler)[ She doesn't die. (hide spoiler)]
We learn more about Lucinda's connection with Lucifer,Daniel and Luce remain (too) cute and Cam is still a flawless God(pardon fallen angel) even though he didn't have as many scenes as I hoped he would have.
If you are worried that your favorite character might die,I can tell you that some people did actually die(view spoiler)[but no one major (hide spoiler)].
So please,Mrs./Ms.Kate write at least one book with this flawless devil.
:DThere was this scene with Luce and her new roommate and her name was Nora.
Haters need to GTFA.Goodbye to Lucinda,her man Daniel and to Cam,hopefully one day I will call him mine.
"The only way to survive eternity is to be able to appreciate each moment."  Beautiful. That’s the only word that’s coming to my mind at the moment. This was absolutely beautiful.Reading this series was worth every second of my time. The first book threw me off, but from the last book I have been reading like I am addicted. The plot, the story, the characters, the very purpose of the plot unraveled in the most amazing way and left me breathless. A lot has happened, we’ve questioned where our lo
Many things I found were absurd and meaningless earlier on in the story have proved to carry a certain purpose and even some of the characters either have more to their personalities than was revealed in the beginning or have changed their ways.
Many characters proved tone great people and as more of the plot was revealed the characters also seemed to compliment the overall story.Luce who was only pining after Daniel in the first book,was shown questioning her role independent from that of Daniel’s and came forth as a powerful yet sensitive person.
I had a great time making my way through this series and shall go on to read the next and final book.
“It isn’t goodbye. It’s until we meet again.” I really hate this type of ending which leaves a black hole in my heart and shatters my soul to its irreversible point. But I can't deny that it's a beautiul one to their epic love, or whatever you call it, after what they have been through in Passion. Daniel, Luce, and their friends must stop Lucifer from renewing the history by using the Announcer to change the place where the Fallen first happened. I was so excited and I read this book right afte
I was so excited and I read this book right after I finished Passion, I was dying to know if Luce and Daniel can make this out alive and get their HEA.
From the last book when Daniel went back to Heaven and saw himself making a choice, (view spoiler)[Luce wasn't there.
I has been binded to them more or less and I'm not realy to leave it here, move on, and read another series, therefore, I save the last book of the series for later if I miss Daniel, Luce, and Cam, I will come back to this series and read it once again.REAL BITTERSWEET ENDING.
Y'all are gonna be SOOOOOPER satisfied with the end...It's the beginning I'm worrying about. Ooooh! Fernanda made TWO versions of the same image:I can't tell which one I like more!
THERE'S A FOURTH BOOK OF THIS??? WHY
Screw the haters :)Cannot wait for the fourth & final installment of the Fallen series to hit the shelves. I'll be pre-ordering this as I did with Passion.
Okay, it is a bit sad that it's over, mainly because i can't write these reviews anymore but i don't think i could handle another book with Luce and Daniel.
Suddenly Luce can recall her past lives with details, making the previous book a waste of time since she had that ability all along but she conveniently discovered it now because a bunch of immortals can't remember where the fall happened.
“Why have you come to me?”“Because I have been watching you.” Daniel stared and Luce knew that before then, no one had ever seen an angel cry.
Dear Cam, I adore you(: You're the only interesting character in these freaking books.Oh, pretty cover! I really hope this is the final cover.
I finally finished reading the series.
I did not wish to finish book for 2 reasons.
Second reason is that as annoying as Luce is, I did not wish to end the series and end reading about Daniel.
Eventually I could get pass my annoyance for Luce and ended the series.-----------------Ms Kate did a good job with the ending and managed to keep her readers confused of what Lucinda Price really is until the end of the book.
I am glad that Daniel is not the angel many readers accused him of.
In Dedication to the end of the Fallen Series by Lauren Kate.... Because I have an incredibly immature sense of humor and wanted to show off my mad skills at photo editing, I created this Ermagerd meme. Enjoy.       Ermahgerd!!Ok. Let's get serious here.LC's Take:And now...The epic conclusion to the Fallen series by Lauren Kate.And by epic, I mean the following:1.) Totally ridiculous2.) Painfully cliche3.) LOL hilarious for all the wrong reasons4.) Convoluted beyond all human reasoning5.) Inexp
The main characters are beyond aggravating, the dialogue is so cheesy you have to wonder what planet they're from where people actually talk like that, the romance is completely dysfunctional, and I lost track of the plot about 800 pages ago.So. My reasons for reading this book?A.) Figure out what the flying fig newton all of this has been leading up toB.) See if Luce becomes less of a brain-dead idiot and Daniel becomes less of an ass-hat, andC.) Find out if the entire series could be redeemed by some miracle in the last installment.~Brief Summary~I'm going to try and not give away any spoilers for those of you who are just dying to read this series or haven't finished it yet, but here is the gist of things: Luce and Daniel have been falling in love, over and over again in every lifetime, for thousands of years.
"Good luck and wingspeed. Worst. Thing. EVER.I can't even. WHAT JUST HAPPENED HERE. KATE, WHAT DID YOU JUST DO TO ME?  So many things wrong. SO MANY THINGS WRONG.Luce is a fucking angel?! ARE YOU KIDDING ME? She was LUCIFER'S FREAKING EVENING FREAKING STAR? SERIOUSLY? THIS. THIS IS IT. THIS IS WHAT I SAT THROUGH PAGES UPON PAGES UPON PAGES TO FIND OUT? THE BIG REVEAL? THAT'S IT!? SHE WAS AN ANGEL. NO ONE COULD TELL HER SHE WAS AN ANGEL BECAUSE...WHY? SHE HAD TO FIND OUT ON HER OWN? SO SHE WOULD
So many things wrong.
SO MANY THINGS WRONG.Luce is a fucking angel?!
SERIOUSLY?
SHE WAS AN ANGEL.
NO ONE COULD TELL HER SHE WAS AN ANGEL BECAUSE...WHY?
THAT COMPLETE AND UTTER BULLSHIT!?
WHAT IS THIS BABY BACK BULLSHIT?ARRRRGGGGGGGHHHHH.Never before have I had SO MUCH FREAKING RAGE towards a fictional character.
I'm done and I'm not a better person for it and Lucinda, you are still the absolute worst and you're still tacky and I hate you and you and your purple eyed, stupid blond haired, downy winged boyfriend can go jump off a cliff or shoot yourself with a starshot or play jumprope with your intestines.
surprisingly, I'm satisfied.I will admit that I actually gave Passion, the third book in the series, a three-star rating.
But still, even though I did quite like Passion, my hopes for the final book in the series were still extremely low.
One I actually didn't expect.I was going to give this probably 1.5 stars, or at the very most 2, but the end made me raise it a little higher because I'll admit it was a pretty decent way to end a series.
Oh man, this cover is so gorgeous I feel bad that I'm not going to read it!After the travesties of Fallen and Torment I refused to read any more.
But just looking at this beautiful cover makes me want to eat my words.
I gave my copies of the books away and now I want to go and buy hardcover versions!
And I HATED the books and was miserable for days after I read them.A pity the Passion cover was so crap, because this one is up to the same standard as the first and second and it's so beautiful I want to cry!
Read full Review at Bewitched Bookworms  I am in awe of this series... If there is any epic love story, then it's the one from Luce and Daniel. Fallen was one of the first books I read after my Twilight Obsession and I love this series ever since. Funny enough, I fell in love with Daniel the minute he flipped Luce off when they first met in Fallen. This series broke me heart so many times, I cried so many times and I swooned so many times. Finally, with Rapture we get closure. We had a wonderf
If there is any epic love story, then it's the one from Luce and Daniel.
Fallen was one of the first books I read after my Twilight Obsession and I love this series ever since.
The mythology behind Daniel's and Luce's love story was so incredible and epically heartbreaking.
This was an emotional roller coaster and my heart needed Luce and Daniel story to come to and end, I was ready....Dear Mrs. Kate:Please,please please I want, no - I need a Cam spin off!
This was quite and ending to a wonderful series, and I have to say that Rapture really tugged at my heart.
I didn't think the end of the series would affect me this much, but it has.
I love you Cam!Ok, on that note, while I wipe the tears away, I am signing off and saying goodbye to a wonderful series that will forever be in my heart, and made me believe that no matter what, I'll can and always will choose love!
based on the reviews from the previous books, hope it's that last and that it answers our questions! I have only read the first book, I'm planning on checking out the 3 books from my local library. Honestly why do authors make the main female character so ANNOYING! -.-
God saved Lauren Kate from readers like us by making a pretty cover for her last book. Now God, save us by giving us a nice ending by Lauren Kate for this disastrous series.
NEVER AGAIN WILL I HAVE TO READ ANOTHER BOOK IN THIS SERIES! I'm sorry, i'm just so excited that it's over. I could rant and rave about all the plot holes and "plot surprises" (i.e the surprises that you could easily guess 1/4 of the way through the book) but i won't. I will leave it at this- For the sake of your sanity, don't read this series. In fact, don't read ANY books by her.
If they were working their way down from the highest, Luce was only third in line (yes she’s an archangel) and she didn’t vote so God must have lost her temper right after Gabbe, sending most of the angelic host earthward–but that couldn’t have been the order because Daniel was sixth on the list, I think, and we know what he said.
I mean, I got the Luce/Lucifer love connection right away when I started reading Rapture but shouldn’t there have been some buildup from the beginning of the series?
I totally loved the first book, but the second and third sequel took me forever to finish.
I admit that I was totally lost with some recap scenes, but I think the story was good.
I totally loved Cam. I was really hoping he could atleast have a happy ending for himself, but I was wrong.
Coz' until the end, Cam's love for Luce was sad and wasn't returned.
I was really thinking that the first love of Luce will be Cam. But I was totally wrong.
I think this sequel is a worth to read after all.
What I'm hopeful for is that Luce ends up with Cam. I just adore him!
Daniel is so cut and dry in his manner.
I might be missing the whole point of the series but it annoys me to no end that he won't choose a side.
Cam is more shades of grey that I think compliment Luce better.
I think there is something more there than Luce wants to admit.
Plus I'm so sick of the whole obsessive love that transcends all reason (think Twilight).
Plus it is insanely predictable that the "good" guy gets the girl.
Actual rating: 3.5 starsReview: better than 1 and 2, though I find 3 the best one in the series. The ending seemed a bit rushed to me. However, the books do read easily.I can't say that I'm sorry to see this series end. I'm glad I bought them as a bargain, and that I've sold them again for the same price.Nope, I will not read number 5 from Cam's point of view, nor will I read the short stories. I'm done with the series :p
Arriane: tsk tsk, at first, I really like her but (view spoiler)[ after reading Fallen in Love, it is revealed that she is actually a lesbian and her lover, who is a demon, already died of blood loss  (hide spoiler)], I don't like her that much anymore.
Molly: At first (by Luce's description in Fallen), I dislike her but after reading that scene (view spoiler)[ where she, together with Gabbe protected Luce and Daniel from the deadly starshots and getting killed in the process  (hide spoiler)], I like her.
This is not to diss on Kate's writing because I know she put a lot of work into it, but I just don't think her effort helped her in this book.And I 
I just didn't get what was the point of those little episodes and how they helped lead to the end.What's more, the thing that was great about the previous three books was the reader had a chance to learn more about Luce's past (why I like reading time travel books).
Like I said, the book was a bit overwritten, and the feelings descriptions were a bit over the top and cheesy.
[Wednesday, March 28, 2012] I really want to see how the story will end. I hated the third book, but I loved the first two, so I hope the ending will be strong and filled with that Gothic sense that was missing in her third book.[Friday, January 04, 2013] While searching for the place where angels fell to earth to stop Lucifer from erasing the past, Luce and Daniel make a startling discovery about their love.
[Wednesday, ‎March ‎28, ‎2012] I really want to see how the story will end. I hated the third book, but I loved the first two, so I hope the ending will be strong and filled with that Gothic sense that was missing in her third book.[Friday, ‎January ‎04, ‎2013] While searching for the place where angels fell to earth to stop Lucifer from erasing the past, Luce and Daniel make a startling discovery about their love.
It was between Torment and Passion where I started to get into the mythology of angels and demons, and saw the terrible flaw in Kate's mythology.I have to say, though, Rapture was a teeny bit better than Passion!Okay, so now that Luce and Daniel are back in the present, they have to stop Lucifer from once again falling from Heaven and sending time back to before the fall.
It's like Kate realized that most of the people reading this series are doing so, so we can see Cam, therefore took him out of most of the series.
First SLience is just the worst book in the series while Fallen to me is the worst in this series see how they are similar.EDIT:SO toady is like June 4,2012 and you know there is only 8 more days until this book is out.( I am totally calm right now.).Pshhh as if I am like freaking out and chewing on my hair while I look at this.You know I am really excited about this book and if Lauren kate dosen't satasfiey me I tell you there wil be some blood maybe a little hair and all.But Lauren you don't have to worry because that isn't going to be you it will be my English teacher who will pay.But I guess there will be no hair consideing that my teacher is bald.
