https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/461822.The_Secret_of_Killimooin
The original book by Enid Blyton is brilliant, with a 5-star rating!The TV adaptation, though, is boring, shallow and riddled with unbelievably convenient coincidences- clues are dropped unknowingly (all the time) by the villain's henchmen and found serendipitously by the good guys.
And Ranni and Pilescu, Paul's loyal guards have been replaced by a guy called - I kid you not- Barney, who is an ex US Secrer Service agent!Bleeeeeargh!The two stars are only because Ruby is a shown as a strong plucky badass nanny and because Prince the dog is a nice addition.
Lots of adventure even if it is more fantasy than reality. Still fun to read.
So I thought I'd re-read a couple of books by Enid Blyton to refresh my memory.
One of the first things that one notices about many Enid Blyton books is what is nowadays called "food porn".
But Enid Blyton does "write down" to children.
She writes in exclamations: "...he had a surprise that was most unexpected!" Adults tend to notice such redundancies and to be rather annoyed by them, but children don't.
In her dialogues Blyton even sometimes makes characters speak in exclamations, which real children rarely do -- Oh, I say!...
When I was a child, I Read and Reread The Secret Island (#1) and its sequels for years.
One of Enid Blyton's best series.
: likely a bit dated now but what a fun read!
The Secret of Killimooin shows its age/ "datedness" in regards to how Blyton depicts non-whites.
The age of the publication does not change the fact they are well written, fun, and enjoyable.
I recently purchased the entire series.I glad there are reprints.
This series "Secret Series" are old fashioned, charming without cell phones, computers and such.
This is again a story set in an exotic locale - the imaginary country of baronia.
It had interesting characters like the blind sheepherd.
The human interactions is low in this series and no strong memorable character.
Enid Blyton's stength is not mystery or intrigue to be be able to make a book stand on that alone.
Somehow this series is important in the sense that they show Enid Blyton's writing in a raw form from which the more mature adventure series has evolved later on - that is another series with exotic locales but makes much more interesting read.
This is a vast improvement on the previous book in the series, as the five children have their individual characteristics back, and the Killimooin Mountains are a well realised and exciting setting for an adventure.I was worried at one point that the climax of the story was not going to live up to the quite excellent build-up, but I was pleasantly surprised to find that Mike, Jack and Paul made a pleasingly heroic and intrepid rescue band as they entered the Secret Forest.
Another Enid Blyton book, although I've not had much to do with this series. It was alright, but the story was pretty wild and out there compared to some other adventures. I'd have to check out the rest of this series to get a good grasp on what's happening.
This was an awesome book........when Paul takes his frnds Mike, Jack, Nora and Peggy to his land Baronia they are enormously excited.It was all about mountains and robbers so i really liked it.....
This is the first English-written book that I've finished reading.
effortlessly gripping
It was brilliant. I love Enid Blyton books and this was another great one.
good for grown up kids. including myself. was interesting to read.
The only Secret book I read once as a child, enjoyable but the girls were left out of most of the adventure which was disappointing!
I've always love Enid Blyton. The Queen of storytelling. Her books are a treasure.
never read it
A good story, but disappointed that the girls were completely left out of the adventures this time.
