https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23164983-hollow-city
More like 4.5 stars. Really enjoyed this book, just not quite as much as the first one! Loving the series overall so far, and can't wait for book 3 this fall!
I'm so happy that I decided to reread this! I forgot how crazy that ending was. :o I THINK I'M READY FOR LIBRARY OF SOULS NOW... I THINK. MAYBE NOT, BUT IT'S COMING WHETHER I'M READY OR NOT.
4.4 STARS! Really enjoyed Hollow City - here's my booktalk https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t5j0g... =D
Miss Peregrine's Home For Peculiar Children is one of my all-time favorite books and I've been waiting to read Hollow City for ages!
I loved learning more about the Peculiar children in Hollow City and character development is one of Riggs's strongest suits.
Hollow City is incredibly fast-paced with an interesting story that fans of Mrs. Peregrine's will absolutely love.
Hollow City is a wonderful sequel that is an absolute must read and it's truly upsetting how there's only one more book left in this series.
Hollow City is a much faster-paced book than it's predecessor in terms of plot and character development.
HOLY CRAP. I CAN'T EVEN. I'll write my thoughts when I'm able to GATHER my thoughts, but know that I LOVED THIS BOOK SO MUCH.
what is it with you people and rating books that arent even PUBLISHED??!!! COME ON!!
what is it with you people and rating books that aren´t even PUBLISHED??!!! COME ON!!
The plot was uninteresting, the characters were unremarkable, and the romance was lame.-Summary: Miss Peregine's school and the time loop she created destroyed by hollows/wights/the bad guys, the peculiars/students on the run, Miss Peregine poisoned and not able to fix the loop and protect her kids, Jacob and the other peculiars have to avoid the bad guys and find another headteacher to help Miss Peregine get back to normal.-The majority of Hollow City was dull, there was too much repetitiveness and everything seemed contrived.
Yet, action packed and really full of thriller and twists.** The Mission **Let me put it this way, no spoiler at all,“Get Miss Peregrine to one of the last remaining ‘uncaptured’ Ymbrynes, God knows who, in any un-attackted loop, God knows where, avoiding Wights and Hollows, who's constantly one step too close, and avoiding the horrors of WWII’s German bomb assaults on Londod, which is constant too, to get her into the human form again, after being severely hurt by the end of book one, before it's too late to return human, that's mean only 5 days maximum.”And don't forget the constant watchers...This long journey in tight time is really rich, fast and have a great mixing between the World of Peculiar and our real world.Like this old bonds between Peculiars and Gypsies since they're both outcasts, both suffer prejudices cause they're different.
January 2014?
I definitely enjoyed this book more than the first installment when I read it a two years ago. There were definitely slower moments that were rough to get through, but ultimately, I really enjoyed how the plot progressed in this novel and cannot wait to see how it ends!
4.5 StarsWow, what an amazing ending.
I totally didn’t see that coming!Something also interesting is that, until reading the author’s note, I had NO idea that Ransom Riggs and Tahereh Mafi (author of the Shatter Me series) were married.
I’m sure I’m the last person to future this out...but crazy fun fact if you didn’t know.
But anyway, there is something about this series and this world that I just really love.
Can’t wait to see what the final book brings, although I’ll be sad to see it end.
3.5 stars.Unfortunately, Hollow City is a case of Second Book Syndrome.Extremely slow start, with many scenarios that I found just too far fetched.
(view spoiler)[Talking animals, a caravan of gypsys, a carnival, are we serious?
(hide spoiler)] That isn't necessarily a bad series to be compared to, although that vibe felt considerably more childish than what I had come to expect from the previous Miss Peregrine novel.While I loved the photos in the first book, I felt like they hindered the telling of this one, it wasn't as flawless this time.
(hide spoiler)] This isn't to say that the story isn't quality, because it is.
If you have read my reviews before you know I am picky when it comes to bizarre, supernatural fantasy novels.
Well, so far, the bizarre magic and "peculiar" characters of of this series are on the positive side of things for me.When I mention being picky on this type of book, there is just something that I am not sure I can describe with words that either makes the book super awesome or totally disappointing.
Riggs knows how to write the unbelievable in a way that I like.Also, I love the incorporation of the old time, sepia tone photographs.
I think I liked this one a little better than the first.. SO excited for book three!
The peculiar children are on the run! Danger at every turn! Until finally...okay, there's a twist thrown in. While Ransom Riggs' Hollow City is a well-written sequel in which we learn more about the nature of the peculiars (and their enemies), overall, I wasn't as wowed or intrigued. To me, it felt like the filler of a 3-book series. Will I read Library of Souls? Not sure yet...
Or even ridiculous ones?Or Maybe I should invest my time trying to like books with creepy pictures that are just being shoved into my face?Maybe it's okay to think that a character can be that shallow and underdeveloped?Maybe I should secretly fangirl over a granny who loves her ex's grandson?Maybe I should waste my time reading something that is just absolutely nonexistent?Real reasons why I hated this book- I don't know why but I felt like the whole idea of Hollow City was only written because Ransom Riggs found some photos of animals who are guess what?peculiar and thought yes, there's also peculiar animals which was okay we haven't heard of that before but yeah whatever.-The characters, I don't know when was Ransom Riggs planning to actually put some effort on those kids?
“What I believe is that when it comes to big things in life, there are no accidents. Everything happens for a reason. You are here for a reason -- and it's not to fail and die.”  Hollow City is DARKER and CREEPIER than book one. I was really glad to finally see what's going on with children at the beginning of this book. The world of this book is madness, it's not something joyful for someone. Emma becomes a lead character in Hollow City, and her courage makes this book turn out to be the unput
Everything happens for a reason.
Hollow City is DARKER and CREEPIER than book one.
Emma becomes a lead character in Hollow City, and her courage makes this book turn out to be the unputdownable one.I liked eveything in this book, even if it's not excited as the first one, but it gave me the creepy vibe all the time.
Hollow City broke my soul and clenched my heart tightly.
Every character in this book mirrors something more than how good they are, they have their souls to speak for whatever they want to do.
It was certainly more entertaining than the first one, but only marginally.There is a quest to bring the group's ymbryne to Miss Wren, whose first name isThere are some new characters introduced in this book such as a talking dog named Addison, a pair of blind brothers who use echolocation, a telekinetic girl, and another who can syncopate her skin to your heart beating named Selena.It appears that Ransom Riggs just decided to find a bunch of creepy vintagy photos and create a story from that.
While that kinda worked for the first book, this approach appears more like random story prompts than anything else.
Well and truly killed me...But anyway, this book is utterly brilliant!!
I absolutely adored Miss Peregrine's home for peculiar children and had pretty high hopes for this book.
All I can say is that this book was better than I could've ever hoped and may well be the best sequel I have read in my life!!The characters in this book are all so incredibly unique and precious!
Every single one of these peculiar children has a special place in my heart, and always will.This plot was amazing, there really wasn't a dull moment!
*4.5 HOLLOW STARS* "Strange, I thought, how you can be living your dreams and your nightmares at the very same time.” I only picked this one up because I recently ended up watching the movie adaption of Miss Peregrine's Home For Peculiar Children and that kind of got me back in the mood to continue this series.But I gotta say, I enjoyed this one so much more than the first book! I'm really glad I decided to continue this trilogy, I can only imagine how crazy the last book is going to get!It's no
I only picked this one up because I recently ended up watching the movie adaption of Miss Peregrine's Home For Peculiar Children and that kind of got me back in the mood to continue this series.But I gotta say, I enjoyed this one so much more than the first book!
I'm really glad I decided to continue this trilogy, I can only imagine how crazy the last book is going to get!It's not that I necessarily disliked the first one, I actually ended up rating it 4 stars apparently, but I just expected something more I guess...
That ending: WHAT THE HELL JUST HAPPENED?
Do you ever find yourself climbing into an open grave during a bombing raid..and wish you'd just stayed in bed?  If only you knew how often I've run into that exact situation...The peculiar children are in the midst of escape. Their ymbryne is irreparably injured, the wights are right behind him and hollowgasts are ahead. And as with so many YA books, they have to save the world (at least there isn't a love triangle).The peculiars stumble upon a time loop leading to somewhere extremely peculia
And as with so many YA books, they have to save the world (at least there isn't a love triangle).The peculiars stumble upon a time loop leading to somewhere extremely peculiar.
Adding in creature-peculiars threw me off (it could have been the awful voice given to the emu-raffe in the audiobook) or the sheer craziness of adding in a whole new dimension (via animals) to an already extremely stretched book.
This is a bit of a conundrum because while I love a book with pictures, it sometimes felt like Riggs stretched the story to include all of the images he wanted.
I love this series. The peculiar children in these novels are so fascinating. This story had me hooked just like the first book did. There were parts I wasn't crazy about but it was still good and the pictures were good, too. Looking forward to the next in the series!!
The Hollow City is the second installment in Rigg's trilogy of the Peculiar Children's exciting adventure, and it is a worthy following of its predecessor.
But probably the actual reason was simply that it became repetitive and predictable.
(view spoiler)[Every stranger was a threat that was eliminated by the intervention of another stranger and so on and so forth...This continues until the very end to the point where the conclusion of the second book left me a bit indifferent.
The Hollow City is a good continuation of the story and perhaps this is just me nit-picking, but I expected to feel the well-known enthusiasm of following the Peculiars' adventures and it didn't happen.
These characters, who are so amazingly written, they deserved something better other than the same thing over and over again.
The romance between Jacob and Emma failed to captivate me like I thought it would and while I thought they were cute in the first book, I don't like them together at all in this one.The plot was very poor, I mean the entire book was running around trying to get to someone and it all ended within 10 pages.It doesn't even deserve its 2 stars but let's just go with it because the photos are still part of the book, and I loved them dearly.
Çeviri bitti!inanılmazdı! Birinci kitap bitince nasıl "Çabuk bana ikinci kitabı verin!" diye bağırdıysam ikinci kitabın sonunda da aynı şeyi hissettim. "Yok artık, o kadar da olamaz," diyerek okuduğum çok fazla yer oldu. Bir kere daha çeviriyi bırakıp kitabı okumamak için kendimi zor tuttum. Şahsen, ikinci kitabı birincisinden daha çok beğendiğimi de itiraf etmeliyim. Eğer Bayan Peregrine'in Tuhaf Çocuklarını sevdiyseniz Hollow City'yi daha çok seveceksiniz.Kitabı kestiği yerden ötürü Ransom Riggs'i pataklamak isteyenler için de bir grup kuracağım:) Library of Souls'u boş boş beklemeyelim, değil mi?Tatlı okumalar!
DNF around 20%. I just can't get into this. I'm not attached to the characters or the story at all, and I have too many other books I'd like to read more than this.
The waiting thing is destroying me though and I may just sit at the mailbox until I get it.REVIEW: Jacob and the Peculiar Children we've grown to know and love are back.
Jacob struggles with his newfound abilities, and the pressure of leaving his family behind, and his romance with Emma.Hollow City did not disappoint.
Go - buy book now, do the reading thing!
Where once such books were throw away pieces to pass the time till younger readers could engage with more serious pieces of literature, today they are or should be recognised as being equally serious and nuanced - with the same level of power as books regarded as more mature.In Hollow City the themes of the previous novel are explored further and with.
I, do however, still find some aspects to them at times slightly rough or jarring and so cannot consider them perfect books.
The story is even more gripping and as I got to know more about the world of peculiars, I couldn't help but fall even more in love.
This book is jam packed with action and is absolutely nerve wracking from start to finish.
I loved getting to know my favourite characters more as well as being introduced to new ones which I can't wait to learn more about in the next book.
I could go on and on about how much I loved this book but I'll stop now so I can get started immediately on the third book because that ending left me needing to know what happens next!
