https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24814.It_s_a_Magical_World
Calvin: "I read this library book you got me"Calvin's Mom: "What did you think of it?"Calvin: "It really made me see things differently. It's given me a lot to think about"Calvin's Mom: "I'm glad you enjoyed it"Calvin: "It's complicating my life. Don't get me any more"

Calvin and Hobbes was so important to me when I was younger, and still is important. It really is in its own little catergory. It breaks my heart that Watterson left after this book... but in an understanding way. It is so rare that someone knows how to retire while they are at their peak and let their art stand on its own. I have this last strip in this book pinned up on my wall at work... to remind me as I came here and started over, that it's a magical world out there.
IS THERE ANYONE IN THE WORLD WHO HAS READ C&H AND DOES NOT LOVE LOVE LOVE IT? IF SO I WILL FIGHT YOUUGGGHHH I'm about to vomit with love.
RTC
Yet another among the books published by Bill Watterson from the Calvin and Hobbes comic strip that I have enjoyed.
This one is from the beginning of the C&H comic strip, and I own a framed print of that first strip.
That print hangs in my office, and has become a reminder to me of the importance of discovering what I don't yet know, of the need to ask important questions and find their answers.My children have literally worn out these collections of C&H comics, and with good reason.
Watterson's insights into, and sly digs at, various social, familial, and other institutions of modern life are masterful.
"Calvin, it's okay. It's okay! Trust me!""TRUST YOU?? I HARDLY EVEN KNOW YOU!!!""WHAT? I'm your father!""You've only known me six years! Come back when i'm forty, THEN we'll talk about trust!"... In. Hysterics.
About as good as it gets, even through nostalgia goggles. More introspection, more musings on where the world is going (spot on, Bill old son)... but still some time for Spaceman Spiff, and Stupendous Man. And if I'd known then that there would be no "next year's book" I'd have had a quiet moment after that last hurrah.
That is because Watterson's mundane stories often had a slice of life sentimentality that I found wanting.
The magic of the world is mostly absent; Calvin has to go look for it in nature and with Hobbes, less content it seems to simply pretend to be a dinosaur.
It's a Magical World came when other things I grew up with were ending with the advent of the Internet and media mergers: WGNO 26, action films not based on comics, Married with Children, and Saturday morning cartoons.
It's a Magical World is vaguely prescient.Watterson chose the perfect time to bow out.
While I have a great appreciation for what Gary Larson accomplished comedically in a singular panel, Calvin and Hobbes is far and away the greatest traditional (we will leave Marvel and Dc out of this) comic ever created.
C & H reminds me distinctly of the Simpsons(seasons 3-10, all other seasons are an embarrassment to the franchise and FOX should issue a formal apology)-it could be enjoyed equally on different levels and that enjoyment consistently evolved over time.
My father and I, when I was 7-12, would both read C & H with equal passion for completely different reasons.
That is an accomplishment reserved for truly great works of art.
I bought three new Calvin and Hobbes books to complete my collection. I believe that Bill Waterson has written the most ingenious comic strip of all times.The expressions of his characters in his illustrations are exemplary.
"Que import창ncia teve o canal de Erie? No sentido c처smico, provavelmente nenhum. N처s, pessoas de vis찾o ampla, raramente nos tornamos historiadores."
Sometimes you just really need a break from Herodotus and Ovid to just appreciate Calvin .
I was about 12 when the "It's a magical world" strip ran in my local paper. I cut it out and glued it in my scrapbook and then cried. That said, I have learned more interesting vocabulary from Calvin and Hobbes than I think I have from most of my other favorite authors combined.
This book is as wonderful and apropos of everything as it was the other times I read it years ago.
My favorite character is Calvin becuase he's always saying doing stuff and doing stuff that's very funny but usually gets him in trouble.
My favorite comic strip is when Calvin says he's a man of many words but his stuffed tiger who Calvin thinks can talk, Hobbes says something very funny and kept me laughing but you have to read the book to find out.
I think the author wrote this book becoase he wanted to entertain us and keep us laughing.
I recommend this people who like to laugh and like comics.
My grandfather introduced me to Calvin and Hobbes, and I loved it.
It inspired me to write my own comic, although it doesn't even compare to Bill Waterson's.
I wish he could teach me how to draw a comic so Calvin and Hobbes won't become lost in the rush of our now technological world.
But Waterson gave us a clear idea of what to do now: he told us to look for a new entertainment in life, not to mourn.
After all, as Calvin says,"It's a magical world out there, Hobbes.
Why is it that whenever I'm feeling a little low, all I have to do is pull one of the Calvin & Hobbes books from the shelf and give it a good re-read to perk me up.
I've many other "funny-books", but these are the ones that bring me most joy.Then, a little after I am done, I start re-realizing that Watterson will probably never do any more, then I get sad again.I'm very grateful for what I have...
and I'll re-read them as many times as I need...
I just wish there were more.OK, now I'm feeling sad again, guess it's time to pull another one of the shelf.
Calvin is like Peter Pan, the little boy immune to growing up, and his childish wisdom is (usually) better than the philosphies of educated adults.Hobbes is amazing.Calvin's ego and undeterred self-assurance and overall optimism are things we can all learn from, though not to quite the extreme he sometimes takes them!
I read it the other day and have to say it was full of a whole bunch of comics that were hilarious!! I'm suprised that there were some I haven't read yet, and I've read almost every calvin and hobbes book and I now own every one so far, that I know of. It was really funny and I'm probably going to read it again because some of them I didn't read all of it.
My review for all Calvin and Hobbes books is this:When you need to relax and laugh, this is a great place to go. Watterson is insightful, hilarious, and very, very funny. Highly recommended. I grew up on C&H, and I'm very glad I did.
The final collection of Calvin and Hobbes send our heroes off in style. Even 20 years later, the jokes are still fun and funny.Read my full review at Carstairs Considers.
Calvin and Hobbes books are great fun and really witty humor! A childhood staple comic book for me, but even now I go back and read them and understand the humor on a different level (now that I know the meanings of some of the words!). Great books.
Quan sigui petit, jo vull ser Calvin.
I absolutely love Calvin and Hobbes. This is one of the best comic strips ever written. Calvin and Hobbes will make you laugh every time.
I just LOVE Calvin and can't get enough of him! And everytime I (re)read one of his comic strips, I thank the gods I'm not his mother, LOL!
I love Calvin and Hobbs, I just laugh and laugh. It's funny and intelligent.
It's a magical world, Hobbes, 'ol buddy... let's go exploring.Tolko lepih misli u ovim knjigama o tipipicnom sestogodisnjaku, prosto neverovatno.
Loved it, and believe it or not, i teared when i realised i was reading the last ever strip.
I enjoy returning to C&H periodically to revisit a beloved part of my childhood -- identifying with Calvin's untamed boyhood. Now as an adult, I not only find his wry and incisive comedy all too true but also consider the mom and dad in the comic quite more relatable than I had when I read them as a child. In my mind nothing beats this one. Peanuts is the great classic, but I think C&H is the best of its kind.
