https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/231610.The_World_as_I_See_It
Absolute zero (-458 F) is the total absence of heat.You see, sir, cold is only a word we use to describe the absence of heat.
Cold is not the opposite of heat, sir, just the absence of it.'Silence across the room.
Do you teach your students that they evolved from a monkey?''If you are referring to the natural evolutionary process, young man, yes, of course I do.''Have you ever observed evolution with your own eyes, sir?'The professor begins to shake his head, still smiling, as he realizes where the argument is going.
دوستان گرانقدر، این کتاب از چهار فصل تشکیل شده است و شامل عقاید و اعتقادات زنده یاد «آلبرت اینشتین» بزرگ و خردمند است و برخی از سخنرانی های او در مورد سیاست و مذهب و جنگ و کشورش و دلایل خروجش از آلمان و در پایان در مورد یهود و یهودیت و فلسطین نیز سخن گفته استدر زیر به انتخاب بخش هایی از این کتاب را برای شما عزیزان مینویسم----------------------------------------------------------این گفتهٔ «شوپنهاور» که: ”شخص میتواند آنچه را که اراده کرده است انجام دهد، ولی نمیتواند آنچه را که خواسته است، کنترل کند” ..
ok, don't laugh, but I've been trying to formulate my own "personal statement" these last months.
You know, what I believe, what I value, what I aspire to...
that kind of thing.
"The World As I See It" is exactly what I'd like to write for myself, for those I love.
Of course, it would help if I were Albert Einstein...
I certainly don't expect to publish mine.
But I want to take the time to think through and articulate "the world as I see it." Einstein is a good man-- yeah, he's pretty smart, I guess, but he's also GOOD.
العالم كما أراه كتاب لم يؤلفه أينشتاين بل تم تجميعه من مقالاته ومراسلاته ومقابلاته الإعلامية لتلخيص وجهة نظره بالعالم والحياة، وتم نشره لأول مرة عام 1949 كتاب رائع جدا تناول فيه العديد من المواضيع بمثالية عالية مثل : معنى الحياة واهمية المال والثرة والعلاقة بين الفرد والمجتمع والعلاقة بين العلم والدين وافكاره في الازمة الاقتصادية ورأيه في نزح السلاح والخدمة العسكرية وتحدث عن الاشتراكة وامور اخرى وهو يهودي وداعم للصهيونية حاول ان يبقي على علمانيته في حواراته الا انه لم يفلح
La mitad en la que Einstein expone su punto de vista sobre la sociedad, economía, religión, filosofía, sus motivaciones, ciencia, su rechazo a las guerras, y sobre el judaísmo.
Durante esta mitad podemos entender parte de su personalidad, muestra la sencillez y humanidad de Einstein, no deja de asombrarme lo sencillo que es.
Esta mitad, ya resulta de lectura difícil para los lectores que no tan familiarizados con la física, en muchos momentos resulta difícil y pesada (estuve como 25 minutos tratando de entender una página).
Es lectura pesada, pero con paciencia y conexión a Internet para ir investigando los conceptos que no se conocen, se posible entender.
چنین میخوانیمتحقیقات علمی بر این پایه استوار است که همه اتفاقاتی که میافتد معین شده توسط قوانین طبیع
چنین میخوانیمتحقیقات علمی بر این پایه استوار است که همه اتفاقاتی که می‌افتد معین شده توسط قوانین طبیعت هستند و این در مورد اعمال مردم نیز صادق است برای همین یک محقق علمی به سختی می‌تواند تمایل به این عقیده داشته باشد که اتفاقات را می‌توان با دعا خواندن تحت تاثیر قرار داد مثلا با ارزو کردن یا تمنا کردن از یک موجود ماورای طبیعت بتوان به تغییری دست یافت• من نمی‌توانم فرضیهٔ بی اخلاقی فرد را بپذیرم من اخلاق را منحصرا یک امر انسانی و متعلق به انسان می‌دانم که هیچ نوع قدرت مافوق انسانی در پشت ان وجود ندارد• من نمی‌توانم خدایی را تصور کنم که مخلوقات خود را کیفر یا پاداش می‌دهد و اهدافش طبق مقاصد ما انسانها شکل گرفته‌است.
تقييمي جاء بناء على التجميعة وليس بناء على أفكار وقناعات اينشتاين..لم أر فائدة من الكتاب، وعنوانه ليس معكوسا في محتواه، ولم ألمس حضورا لأينشتاين في ما جمع من مقالات في هذا الكتاب.. بالإضافة إلى ذلك، لا ندري ما السياق الذي كتبت فيه تلك المقالات ولا تاريخ كتابتها ولا مصدرها، ثم إن بعض الصفحات تجد فيها فقرات متعددة لا تمت لبعضها البعض بصلة، ما يجعلني أتساءل: ما الفائدة فعلا من هكذا كتاب؟ علما أنه لا يستوفي ما وعد به..الشيء الوحيد الذي عرفته من خلال الكتاب هو كون ألبرت معاديا للحرب والتسلح والعسكرة والتجنيد الإجباري
While this, along with fear, gave rise to religion, Einstein's religious attitude is all about mystery and not, as he writes, "the fears of an absurd egoism of feeble souls." While the scientist "is possessed by the sense of universal causation," Einstein nevertheless taps into a religious feeling that "takes the form of a rapturous amazement at the harmony of natural law, which reveals an intelligence of such superiority" that "...succeeds in keeping [the scientist] from the shackles of selfish desire."Everything we have done as a human, Einstein writes, "is concerned with satisfaction of felt needs and the assuagement of pain." While, with primitive man, fear (avoidance of pain) is the primary religious force, more civilized religions move from fear to a "moral religion" that relies on and develops social feelings, and loves and cherishes the life of the tribe or the human race, or even life as such." In the reference to life itself, Einstein elsewhere seems to value not the tribe or humans per se, but the "life of all creation." Beyond fear- and moral-based religions, Einstein sees a "third state of religious experience" where science and religion are not opposed.
http://bigthink.com/paul-ratner/alber...
We exist for our fellow man...
Our actions and desires are bound up with the existence of other human beings - "We eat food that others have grown, wear clothes that others have made, live in houses that others have built.
The greater part of our knowledge and beliefs has been communicated to us by other people through the medium of a language which others have created.""I want to research, not to teach.
the only rational way of educating is to be an example." A man's ethical behavior should be based effectually on sympathy, education, and social ties; no religious basis is necessary.
Mình cứ nghĩ Einstein suốt ngày nghiên cứu này nọ chứ! Ai dè ông cũng là con người nhân văn, cũng rất có trách nhiệm với cộng đồng xã hội, viết báo bày tỏ quan điểm về các vấn đề xã hội, phê phán cái sai, cổ vũ cái tốt, viết thư an ủi động viên người quen cũng như người không quen biết. Và cuối cùng tuy ông là một nhà khoa học lớn nhưng ông cũng có tinh thần tôn giáo cao và đặc biệt mang trong mình tình yêu tự do hòa bình.
Đọc cuốn sách, thấy được một số quan điểm của Einstein về cuộc đời, ông là một người yêu chuộng hoà bình, ghét chiến tranh, thích cuộc sống bình dị, ghét vật chất cũng như danh tiếng, ghét cuộc sống đua tranh vụ lợi mà chỉ muốn cống hiến hết mình.Đọc xong thấy mình cũng có nhiều đức tính giống Einstein có điều không có được bộ óc như ông thôi mà :'(
I respect Einstein as far as his contributions to science are concerned; but with regards to some of his views political, gender-wise and economic matters stated on this book, I disagree.
Whereas Einstein criticized the nationalism of the German people, he falls on the other pitfall of promoting Zionist nationalism.
No amount of praise will eradicate the fact that Zionism with its occupation of Palestine is established on bloodshed, oppression and massacre of Palestinian people which continues to this day.
If reconciliation was voiced out by Einstein on this book, it was more of the promotion of the Jews and not of the Palestinians.

Daha kötüsü ise din konusunda bu kadar bağnaz bir bakış açısı ve tek taraflı yüceltme, inanılmaz.
Bir bilim insanının din ile alakası olur mu olmaz mı ayrı konu ama bu biçimde bir bakış açısı olması bana göre doğru eksininde değil.Filistin'de yaşananları yapılanma, yapılan zulümlerin görülmeden "yahudilerin toplanması" olarak değerlendirmesi, yapılan katliamları görmemesi mi yoksa görmek istememesi mi anlayamadım.
Beklediğim daha doğrusu kafamda canlandırdığım tarafsız, önyargısız, işi sadece bilim olan, mitlerle değil, bilim ile cevap arayan bir bilim insanı Albert Einstein yerine böyle bir düşünce yapısı ile karşılaşmak duvara çarpma etkisi yaptı beynimde.
Dil, din, ırk ve renkten arınmış bir biçimde bakabilen bilim insanı arayışında sanıyorum Einstein doğru bir durak değil.
نخبة المقالات لأينشتاين .. هكذا يُقال ! . بعد قراءتي للكتاب شعرت بأنني قرأت " الفراغ " .هذه المقالات والأقوال بلا تاريخ بلا مرجع ..لا تعرف المناسبة التي كتبت و ذكرت فيها ، توجد عشوائية في الكتاب و كلام لا مغزى له فتجد في الفقرة الواحدة عدة موضوعات لا تمت بصلة لبعضها البعض ! .عادا عن هذه كله ، ماذا استفدت من هذا الكتاب ؟ ، الجواب : لا شيء .. أو كما ذكرت سابقًا " الفراغ " .توقعته كتاب رائع لكن مع الأسف هذا كتاب لا طائل منه .
What did Albert Einstein think about religion, war and the military, and Zionism? Although Einstein was not religious he was very committed to Jewishness as a culture. He was clearly antiwar and opposed to any standing armies. I thought the book would've been much more interesting if his writings would've been more clearly placed in their historic context and at least consistently dated.
Einstein was much more than a brilliant physicist.
Probably the best insight into Einstein's mind you will ever get. His mentality, opinions, ideas are clearly seen in this collection of articles regarding every kind of topics. A little dull at some places, due to the fact that the articles were written along the years, and some ideas and opinions are being repeated in more articles. Still the effort to gather all the articles is considerable and yet the book is great. You will get to know a genius' opinions on topics as physics of course, but also on philosophy, history, politics, religion, economics or education. 3\4 rating.
این سبک نوشته را بسیاری از دانشمندان نمیپسندند و مسائل جنبی فلسفی را در حوزه ی کاری خود نمیدانند چون
به هر حال این اظهار نظرات با وجود قابل احترام بودن و حتی جالب بودن، به هیچ وجه هم تراز یافته‌های علمی نبوده و بایستی به دید اظهار نظر فردی که در این زمینه یک فرد عادی است و در زمینه تخصص علمی‌اش نابغه است نگریسته شوند و اینکه این مسائل فلسفی را از طرف چنین کسانی اثبات شده یا رد شده بدانیم اشتباهی است که بیشتر ژورنالیست‌ها و رسانه‌ها علاقه به ارتکاب آن را دارند و در ترکیب ناموفق علم تجربی و فسلفه همین بس که انيشتین تئوری کوانتوم را بنا بر همچین دلایلی نمی‌پذیرفت و همیشه با آن سر ناسازگاری داشت چون فکر می‌کرد که «خدا برای اداره جهان تاس نمی‌ریزد»با اذعان به صحت این مطلب٬ سردرآوردن از نظرات فلسفی ساینتیست‌ها و درواقع فهمیدن آنچه پشت پیشانی می‌پرورانند خیلی برام جذاب بوده و هست.
هذا الكتاب عبارة عن مجموعة قصاصات منتقاة بعناية من مقالات ، وخطب ورسائل وتصريحات ل-ألبرت آينشتاين في مناسبات مختلفة- الغرض منها إلقاء الضوء على شخصيته الإنسانية الفكرية و معتقداته وآرائه تجاه العالم، الحياة، الإنسان، الدين،السياسة، الحرب والعلم وغيره.
ولديه آراء ونظرة مثيرة حول الدين/ الإله.
أينشتاين متحدث رائع ، كما أنه يمتلك الحس الأدبي والذي تلمسه من خلال خطابه ورسائله.لابد من الإشارة انه ورد في الكتاب على لسان أينشتاين أنه أحد الأوفياء والمخلصين ل- فكرة الصهيونية ولا بد من توضيح أنه تراجع وعدل عن موقفه منها فيما بعد .كتاب رائع.
Halfway through, however, Einstein spoke about pacifism and later, Disarmament Conference in 1932 so at least the succeeding texts have a firmer setting to them.Personal thoughtsIn this book Einstein talked about a number of things, one I find the most pleasing is curiosity.
Einstein placed a lot of importance on curiosity and I like how you can find a lot of quotes where he emphasized this.
Einstein talked about religion and how people see God; he advocate against war and valiantly promote pacifism.Initially I thought the book would be fascinating because I wondered how exactly a scientist saw this world, especially a scientist like Einstein.
This abridged edition of letters, speeches and thoughts aims to paint a picture of Einstein as a humanistic and political commentator, philosopher and activist.I felt that the extracts should have been dated; I find the de-contextualisation very annoying and patronising.
I was surprised by Einstein's conservatism on issues of education, culture and sexism, matching his scientific conservatism.
We have here an opportunity of showing what we have learnt in the thousands of years of our martyrdom.
Trước đây mình từng thắc mắc là tại sao ngày xưa người ta thi quan văn chỉ có viết thôi? nếu so với thời bây giờ, mảng học tự nhiên ~ xã hội phân chia ra, thì ở thời đại ngày xưa đó những người có xu hướng tự nhiên phải làm sao.Oh, những người giỏi thì họ sẽ giỏi ở mọi lĩnh vực và văn của họ, suy nghĩ, tư tưởng thì cực kỳ sắc.
Meh.
Những bài phát biểu đầy thẳng thắn, bạo dạn và thực tiễn về khoa học, chính trị, tôn giáo, kinh tế, triết học lẫn giáo dục. Không chỉ là một thiên tài khoa học lỗi lạc, những kiến thức của ông về các lĩnh vực trên (mặc dù Einstein tự nhận là bản thân mình chỉ biết khá ít) để đưa ra quan điểm nhìn nhận thật đáng kinh ngạc với một trái tim giàu lòng yêu thương đối với nhân loại. Thật sự rất đáng đọc!
He hoped that reasonable men could step beyond nationalism and achieve world peace.
He renounced his German citizenship in 1933 upon Adolf Hitler’s rise to power.This small volume contains many nuggets of wisdom and not a few chuckles for the reader with the benefit of eighty years of hindsight.Unfortunately, this volume omits “essays by Einstein on relativity and cognate subject” because the editors fear readers unable to understand them.Some of his views changed a lot in the following decade.
The preface provides scattered contexts for the essays to follow, but that was no way to inform the reader.
By the time I reached the end of the book, I forgot all the information that was condensed in the preface.The book should have organized essays/letters by theme in a chronological fashion, and offered an introduction for each one of them.Some letters could easily be disregarded.
What shocked me is that he referred to Palestine as a "colonial enterprise" and mentioned "the scheme of colonizing Palestine".The only thing I liked in this book was the pictures at the end.
The book repeats itself all the time.
It's a collection of essays, letters and speeches, and was no supposed to be a book from the beginning.
Because of that, it doesn't work well as a book, and most of the essays say something that a previous one has said.
The chapter about pacifism is utterly redundant, because he keeps showing his solution to war all the time.A nice book, tells us that one of the greatest minds of the twentieth century was a humanist, a pacifist, and his views about his scientific work and his life.
Except for the fact that it wasn't supposed to be a book and wasn't organized as such.
Einstein is very forward-looking and humane in his social and humanistic thought.
