https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16180.The_Boleyn_Inheritance
The story of Henry the VIII’s less well known wives, Katherine Howard and Anne of Cleves, as told by themselves and Jane Boleyn, sister in law of the doomed Queen Anne.
What Gregory does well is utilize the known history to augment her fiction.
Her characters might well share the motives of the Tudors & Co, and if they don’t, well, they’re still highly plausible and enjoyably readable.
Not a subtle book by any means-the phrase “the Boleyn Inheritance” is used no less than 2 million times-but totally immersive and admirably detailed.Recommended for: fans of female centered historical fiction, those wishing wish ‘Game of Thrones’ was more gossip/court intrigue and less high stakes violence/despondency.
"Regele va hotărî ce anume e credință și ce e erezie, oamenii nu au căderea să stabilească lucrul ăsta. În lumea asta nouă și primejdioasă, nici măcar Biserica nu are căderea să stabilească lucrul ăsta. Regele va hotărî cine va trăi și cine va muri; căci are acum puterea Lui Dumnezeu.""E o sentință dură pentru mine. Sunt o femeie tânără, am numai douăzeci și cinci de ani. N-am greșit cu nimic. Și totuși voi fi singură pe vecie: nedorită, stingheră și exilată. Într-adevăr, când un rege se consideră Dumnezeu și-și urmează propriile dorințe, suferința se abate asupra altora."
The novel spans Henry VIII’s marriages to Anne of Cleves and Katherine Howard, and is narrated by three women: Anne, Katherine, and Lady Rochford (Jane Boleyn, sister-in-law of beheaded Anne Boleyn).
Anyway, it got a bit old, as did her droning on about her life being in danger, especially as we already know she doesn't end up beheaded.
Surprisingly, I found myself rooting for this self-serving little hussy who didn't think twice about feigning ecstasy with a disgusting old man if it meant she'd get a new dress.
I read The Other Boleyn Girl first and that book should bow down to this one.
One unexpected and extremley interesting the wife of Anne Boleyn's brother, now a widow.
Lady Rochford (Jane Boleyn) is now a bitter older women wanting to be kept involved in court life and is haunted by a past mistake.
She is young, foolish, and loose and has no idea that her fate will lead her to the King and her mistakes to her death.
It is told in an engaging way and it makes you want to keep turning the pages.
Having a tendency to stick my foot in my mouth results in social ostracism these days for me, in the past, I could have been beheaded, raped, drawn, tortured, disemboweled, boiled alive.And if I'm lucky, it would have been done in that order.While it's no torture reading this book, I did find it drawn on and I am not a fan of the characterization.
Besides Anne of Cleves, who is admittedly dull, the other two main characters in this book, the unfortunate Jane, Lady Boleyn and the infantile Queen Katherine, both seem like caricatures.
Das war ein perfektes Buch.
Spannend von vorne bis hinten, außergewöhnliche Charaktere und ein wundervoller, flüssiger und inspirierender Schreibstil.
Author’s Note:Anne of Cleves and Katherine Howard are the two wives of Henry VIII whom we know least; as is so often the case, we think we know them well.
In this fictional account of the real facts I have tried to get past the convention that one wife was ugly and the other stupid, to consider the lives and circumstances of these two very young women who were, so briefly, the most important women of England, successive wives to a man on the brink of madness.
This installment in the Tudor series was Philippa Gregory at her best, giving life to some of the least known or understood characters of the Tudor era.
We are mostly told by historians that he found her ugly, but Gregory’s explanations are far more believable and credible than that, and she gives this shadowy queen life.Next, there is Katherine Howard, the fifteen year old, who is beheaded like her cousin Anne Boleyn, but with much less fanfare.
I must confess that I had a hard time putting this down, much like its prequel "The Other Boleyn Girl." To be fair, the historical research is impressive, with the author using the most up-to-date resources and theories available about the reign of Henry VIII, but still...the sex scenes!
I was already on the author's website yesterday to see if she is writing anything about Henry VIII's last wife, Catherine Parr.)In short, this novel tells the stories of wives 4 and 5, Anne of Cleves and Katherine Howard.
It makes me acutely aware that if I enjoyed this series of Phillipa Gregory books in my youth, that when I get crumbly (read: old), I'll probably end up enjoying Harlequin Romance novels.2.
In The Boleyn Inheritance, as with The Other Boleyn Girl, Ms. Gregory writes with such myopic vision that I wanted to scream from the claustrophobic feeling.
Granted, that is perhaps the entire feel of living at court in King Henry VIII's time, and so she's reconstructing the aura through her writing style.
Ms. Gregory kept hitting me in the face with it all, though, and eventually I got fed up.So, three reasons I won't recommend this to anyone.
Wie kann man Geschichte nur so großartig noch einmal erzählen? ❤️
Not so much for our leading ladies, but you get the idea.This book picks up with Henry's fourth soon-to-be wife, Anne of Cleves, and takes us through his fourth and fifth marriages.
I'm still a bit bummed Ms Gregory opted not to grace us with a novel that at least had Catherine Parr somewhat involved, but I suppose by then all the drama llamas that followed Henry VIII around had died off.Sorry, that was bad.
Anyway...After Katherine of Aragon, whom I ADORED reading about in The Constant Princess, I have to say Anne of Cleves is my next favorite of Henry's unfortunate wives.
I picked this up immediately after reading  The Other Boleyn Girl, unable to slake my thirst for more of Henry VIII and his court.
Divided between three narrators, the evil and half-mad Jane Boleyn, the ill-fated Katherine Howard, and the strong survivor, Anne of Cleves, the reader gets a new perspective on the fourth and fifth wives of Henry VIII.
Though I knew that Katherine Howard was the youngest of Henry's wives, I never thought how that might have affected her fate.
Definitely an enthralling read, and as I said in my review of  The Other Boleyn Girl, Gregory certainly does her research.
Αυτή την εκδοχή της ιστορίας μας την παρουσιάζει με πολύ ενδιαφέρον τρόπο η συγγραφέας προβάλλοντας έτσι την ιδέα ότι δεν ήταν κάποια υποταγμένη γυναίκα χαμηλής νοημοσύνης αλλά μία έξυπνη γυναίκα που διεκδικούσε τα δικαιώματά της και στο τέλος ήταν μάλλον η μόνη από τις έξι συζύγους του Ερρίκου που βγήκε κερδισμένη.
Η μόνη μου ένσταση είναι ότι η συγγραφέας αφού μας μεταφέρει την ιστορία του γάμου της και του χωρισμού της μετά δεν έχει κάτι ενδιαφέρον να προσθέσει στα κεφάλαια που την αφορούν πέρα από την κριτική ματιά στο καθεστώς του Ερρίκου του 8ου.
Anne of Cleves is one gutsy lady; wedded to Henry VIII who is overweight, foul-breathed and has a putrid leg, she barely speaks English, about to lose her crown to the 'slutty' and silly little Katherine Howard, trapped in England and deserted by her family - does she cave in?
No, not Anne."Anne Boleyn has been a shameful secret in our family for so long, it hardly matters whether she was innocent or not...
It is not as if I have to follow in her footsteps, it is not as if there is a Boleyn inheritance of the scaffold and I am her heir..." A moment of clarity by Katherine Howard.
Η άποψή μου για το εξαιρετικό μυθιστόρημα της Philippa Gregory στο site "Book City" και τον παρακάτω σύνδεσμο: Η αυλή των ψιθύρων
Many years ago I read and enjoyed The Other Boleyn Girl and raced to the first next book by this author I could find, which was Wideacre.
Jane is a bitter woman feeling entitled to be back at court and trying her best to block out the death of her husband and sister-in-law.Katherine Howard is a pretty spoilt little slut flirt of only 14 years old.
I have to commend the author for presenting history in such an entertaining yet informative way for readers like me who know little about the Tudor period.
And I'm all for taking creative license (hello, I watched The Tudors and actually enjoyed it sometimes, despite all the historical inaccuracies), so it's all me - not the author.I liked the beginning of the book, especially how Anne was portrayed.
Point taken, the author wants to portray her as a materialistic little flirt who would do anything for a new trinket - even kiss a man she is so repulsed by that she has to fantasize about someone else whenever he's near.
But once she became queen and her chapters got longer I just couldn't take it anymore and abandoned the book.
Book is narrated by three people, Anne of Cleves who comes over as Henrys fourth bride, Katherine Howards who becomes his fifth wife and Lady Jane Rochford who is lady in waiting to both these brief queens.
Anne handles her public casting off and humiliation well (imagine the embarrassment of knowing a fat old smelly king who repulses you has openly told the court he cant bed you as you have slack breasts and a fat belly) and being unable to defend yourself for fear of punishment and death.
One of those books that made me want to read more on the Tudor queens and even the notorious Jane Rochaford and discover more about their life and times.
The man who failed the promise of his youth, the king who turned tyrant, the scholar who went mad, the beloved boy who became a monster.
Her books, carefully researched interpretations of English history, are like heroin for someone fascinated with Tudor England such as myself.
I've stood in those rooms.
There are songs that chant what a strange affair Henry VIII was, but never do we stop to think what terror it must have been to live through, especially for those that actually survived.
These books make it come alive.
In this installment of the Tudor court saga Gregory has 3 different characters narrate the story from their own point of view.
This has the potential to make for a very interesting story, but the book was so repetitive because each of the characters was so one dimensional.
Doesn't anyone else remember George and Anne.
I want to be free like a falcon.Katherine Howard: I am a vapid teenage who likes boys, dresses, and being pretty.The characters harp on these themes every time the narration shifts to them.
Three women tell us of their lives under King Henry VIII.
Duchess Anne of Cleves (Henry's fourth wife), Katherine Howard (Henry's fifth wife) and Jane Boleyn, Lady Rochford, sister-in-law to Queen Anne (Henry's second wife).
I knew Henry VIII's wives by name, mostly.
I'm most familiar with the first three wives-- Katherine, Anne and Jane.
I knew next to nothing about Jane Boleyn.
I look forward to reading more by Philippa Gregory.I read this novel for A Book for All Seasons challenge #2: Reading Blind
Γιατί η Τζέην ήταν μια γυναίκα που βασανίστηκε πάρα πολύ από τύψεις κι ενοχές, που προσπάθησε να εξιλεωθεί από το βάρος της προδοσίας απέναντι στον άντρα και την κουνιάδα της, εξού και στάθηκε στο πλευρό των δύο προαναφερόμενων συζύγων του Ερρίκου, χωρίς, ωστόσο, να επιτύχει αυτό που τόσο ήθελε, αφού το όνομά της, βαρύ και βουτηγμένο στον δόλο και στον θάνατο, την οδήγησε εκεί που ήταν γραμμένο της από την αρχή.Βέβαια, παρά που οι γυναίκες είναι οι πρωταγωνίστριες του βιβλίου αυτού, ο Ερρίκος είναι ένας χαρακτήρας που δεν περνάει απαρατήρητος και που η συγγραφέας δεν τον παρουσιάζει ως ένα αμελητέο στοιχείο για την ιστορία μας.
An unevocative retelling of Henry VIII’s doomed marriages to Anne of Cleves and Katherine Howard.First, I should note that this book contains a lot of paragraphs of the following structure:“Could this book really be so overwritten?
The three protagonists (including Anne Boleyn’s sister-in-law, Jane), each describing the events from their own POV, led to a huge amount of repetition – even apart from Gregory’s above-noted love of hammering home her points.Gregory is clearly not a skilled writer.
The number of run-on sentences included in the novel demonstrates that quite obviously, but there’s also just not a lot to find interesting in the way that the story is told.
I was a bit skeptical while reading the first few chapters of the book but was pleasantly surprised at how good it eventually turned out to be.In The Boleyn Inheritance, King Henry VIII was no longer the handsome, beloved young man that we met in The Other Boleyn Girl.
This is the story about betrayal, backstabbing and political game that creates a question of who will be sustained enough to survive it in the end?The thing that I love most in this book was the way it was narrated from three different viewpoints.
The blend of religious growths and cycles, political maneuvering, and the inner workings of the kingdom and select group created a dynamic, engrossing story.I took a brief break from reading it last night to do some research on the wives of Henry VIII, as it spurred my curiosity for what really went down.At first when reading the book I was annoyed by the often changing of viewpoints, but this became easier in time.
The ending is dramatic and well played, leaving a hollow feeling but sticking as close to the source material as you should.Again not something I usually read, so I'm delighted it was so engrossing, well-written in a lovely literary style, engaging with plot twists, bizarre hidden layers of people involved, and surprises.
This was good. I like the merging of the stories of Anne of Cleves, Jane Boleyn and Queen Kitty. The women have such vastly different temperaments makes for a nice balance. I expected Three Sisters, Three Queens to be more similar in format to this novel.I appreciate the sympathetic portrait of Jane Boleyn, Lady Rochford. History has not been kind to her. Jane's a small person but the author does attempt to add depth to this much maligned person.
A estória é narrada por três vozes que complementam as diferentes perspetivas da narrativa: Ana de Clèves, Jane Bolena e Catarina Howard.Entre o segundo volume e esta obra existe um salto temporal, correspondente ao casamento do Rei com Jane Seymour, do qual resultou o primeiro herdeiro masculino ao trono.
Tal como Ana Bolena, Catarina é uma das aparentemente inesgotáveis sobrinhas do Duque de Norfolk, o homem por detrás de todas as grandes conspirações contra o Rei. Mais um peão introduzido na corte para atrair o Rei e a sua riqueza, Catarina é provavelmente a personagem mais irritante de toda a obra.
I did feel bad for Anne of Cleves, but since I'm a google whore, I knew she wouldn't die, so it was a little easier to read her parts.I understand that there are Jessica Simpson-esque women throughout history, but I was really under the impression that in the 1500's and such, young women weren't quite as flaky as they are now.
Katherine Howard could well have been plucked from the mall of today and placed in Henry's court, for how she acted.
I can handle anything one time, but 25?The ending chapters, with Jane and Katherine going back and forth, were my personal favorite parts.
It wasn't like, "Oh, do they survive?!

Henry VIII's wives are still a topic which capture's the imaginations of many people and the entertainment world (ie films, TV, etc).
The Boleyn Inheritance is a glimpse into the world of the "other" wives after the (in)famous Anne Boleyn and her sister-in-law Jane Parker (Lady Rochford) who went to her grave for helping Catherine Howard commit adultery.
Gregory created a magnificent read which tells the stories of wives after Anne.
Each has a strong personality which will linger with you after you finish the book and read other ones on the wives of Henry VIII.
The world of Gregory and the Tudors is always a dramatic one and this is no exception.
