https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/118316.A_Thousand_Plateaus
"With the bleeding of information from the material to the infomatic rhizome through Wikileaks (i.e. the US diplomatic cable leaks), the Infostate has created an asymmetrical insurgency against conventional power.
As Deleuze, then Agamben assert that power is the separation of the subject from potentiality, and as such mitigates dissent, the nation-state is trying to exert power by separating the means of support and the figurehead from Wikileaks, but distributed, asymmetrical cyberwarfare by the net.community has already disrupted banks, credit, and networked sites.
The centralized, hierarchical nature of the material corporate nation-state has been unable to contain the decentralized flow of cellular power, which has become infopower, created by the emergency of distributed networks.
wrote my MA thesis on these fuckers
Deleuze and Guattari borrowed ideas from Freud and Marx and some other people, kind of tossed it all around, threw in some totally made-up words to help cement their status as crazy assholes points, and presented it as an entirely new way of thinking.The thing I wasn't able to really get past - and the thing that almost made my book club partners want to smother me with a rhizomatic pillow - is that I'm not certain any of this was necessary.
The most difficult book ever written.
But it’s also liberating as hell.
Just sit back and enjoy how strange it makes you feel.
And then how ecstatic, confused, angry, etc., all at once.
And that feels pretty groovy.
And if you think the reading part pushes you to the limit, just wait till it’s time to sew up the ol’ asshole.
The anus machine awaits the stratification of the sewing machine, the needle-and-thread aSSemblage, for the Dogon Egg awaits its de-territorialization!
Read it.
Tired of seeing everything from the point of view of the individual?
This might be the book for you.
This book changed the way I think about thinking.
The migration of humans will look like the crawling of ants.
Most importantly, though, Deleuze and Guattari show everything as a process of strategic movement through territory, whether it be the formation of layers of sediment or nomads trekking through the desert plains.
Like a roving spiderweb over the Cartesian grid of your window screen and your city, their thought shows us how to capture new territory while evading capture ourselves.
I hate this fucking book.
Here’re the authors justifying the fact that they affixed their names to the books they write:“Why have we kept our own names?
Plato is like Satan to these theorists: Everything is his fault.Like many theorists, the authors are at their worst when they turn their maniacal gaze onto fiction.
Here is a representative sentence concerning literature (they’re talking about Moby Dick and Kafka’s “Josephine the Singer”):“It is always with the Anomalous that one enters into alliance to become-animal.” [SIC!]This will sound brisk and simplistic (like most of this review, perhaps), but I really do think that theorists in general just don’t *get* fiction.
Remember that, at their core, and amidst all of their other intellectual interests, what you have here is a philosopher/linguist and a psychiatrist who collaborated; in the end, everything is somewhat seen through the filter of language and how the use of language and other types of communication could possibly bring about changes of a society at its margins (while their posturing may suggest otherwise, I'd posit the idea that DeLeuze and Guattari are savvy enough to realize that most people aren't going to be able to read this book and understand it well enough to translate the concepts into potential society-changing thoughts on a large scale...).
Fucking wow. I read Deleuze for the first time when my sophomore year of college, and found him impenetrable and obnoxious, but now, after falling in love with some people inspired by Deleuze (Edward Soja, Antonio Negri, etc.), I'm back on the bandwagon. Not only does it provide a phenomenal perspective on the world that will help any student of literature, psychology, sociology, anthropology, political science, art, etc., but also is extremely good at curing internal fascist malaise. Lovely!
If i try to look at it like a true philosophical text with intended insight and description, it falls completely flat.
Since one never truly understands the intention of the writing other than to get lost in the hubris of deterritorializing reterritorialized lines of flight back to some strata in some assemblage comprising an abstract machine (I am sorry that statement is the most meaningless concept ever devised), I cannot accept this as an actual method of critical thought.
It's really worth reading it from start to finish, which is not the way I read the book.)There is no review that could sum up this behemoth of ideas.
I really can't give you "my take." I will say that there are massive parts of it that I need to read again, and there are very fundamental concepts that I just don't understand (the event, haecceity, the machinic assemblage).I will tell you that my recent re-immersion into the book came from one of the better reading groups I've ever been part of.
Any book of philosophy that features a chapter in which a geologist (named Challenger no less) undergoes a metamorphosis while delivering a lecture is pretty good.
What takes it to the next level is what Challenger the geologist turns into: a lobster!
This book has it all from Deleuze and Guattari: wolf packs, war machines, nomadologies, becomings-animal, rhizomes, the differences between the games of Go and Chess, and plenty of rips on Freud and psychoanalysis.
Regardless, this is definitely a book worth taking a look at again, with all of its messiness and intensity and humor.
I actually have read this book.
That in no way detracted from sheer reading pleasure.Some of their ideas such as rhizomatic thinking and the body without organs are so beautiful you can stand and stare at them for hours.
As for some of the other ideas, i have no clue what they're talking about.They suggest that you read their book like listening to a concert.
They also suggest that the book's chapters are plateaus, and you can read whichever one in whatever order.
I did both, separately and together.I have a suspicion they were not on this plane of consciousness when they wrote this book.and all of this is why it is beautiful.
this book has no ending, or beginning for that matter.infinitely provocative but nearly impossible to read.presupposes familiarity with a vast array of recondite materials, from a number of different disciplines. more than most students could be expected to weed through in a lifetime.
If enough people are aware of a phenomena then it is there whether it is objective or otherwise, and should be treated in this manner, adopting this stance Deleuze and Guttari delve into subjects many others feed to tread, and making some surprisingly logical and poignant observations.
If you can make head-or-tails of this crap then this rating doesn't apply to you. It would probably be best if you read this outside a course with any expectations because if you're trying to figure out how you'll apply this to a paper as you read you'll never get anywhere. It's just strange and nonsensical. Even the most learned literary critic or psychoanalyst would have trouble following this text.
The second part of Deleuze and Guattari's two volume mind boggling and yet a playful critique of capitalism is full of insights and useful ideas. They do manage to take the language of critical theory forward from Lacan, Derrida and Foucault. One of the most intersting and useful metaphor is the metaphor of rhizome used instead of hierarchic logic of the metaphor of `tree'. One of the most important philosophical treatise of this `post modern' era.
The second part of Deleuze and Guattari's two volume mind boggling and yet a playful critique of capitalism is full of insights and useful ideas. They do manage to take the language of critical theory forward from Lacan, Derrida and Foucault. One of the most intersting and useful metaphor is the metaphor of rhizome used instead of hierarchic logic of the metaphor of `tree'. One of the most important philosophical treatise of this `post modern' era.
This book is pseudo-intellectual garbage. The striations and stratifications of the molar body without organs and deterritorialized flows of jargon were empty of meaning. Crap. Took forever to read it all. 'Anti-Oedipus' had a little thought involved at least.
unintelligible does not equal brilliant
All I can think is, to hell with the BWO, I'm a mammal and all I want to do right now is join them.Episode 4: Alas, knowing I can't be a cat and follow the trail from corner table to counter to top of the refrigerator without smashing everything in sight and/or breaking every bone in my body, I return to the table, resume philosophical reading pose, refurrow my brow and soldier on.Episode 5: I reach a passage that not only makes sense to me but rocks my world, and suddenly I'm completely in the moment, nerve-alert as a cat on bird duty.
They outline only the barest minimum while showing that these kinds of relations are beings in-themselves created time and again throughout human history, literature, music and so on.
In a way, this is more than philosophy because by venturing the pattern outward and showing how we organize changes what things are (how we are) so they also show us the first edges of a materialism in which agental relations matter more than ontology or the content of classification.
In fact, their formalism is light-years beyond that; it's a formalism in which specific content is the organizer and vis-versa.
I like Deleuze.
A lot.
But I don't know that he is a good writer.
The becoming-woman discussion is a case in point for me.
Deleuze spends more time trying to convince us that he has no intention of insulting transvestites and their accomplishments than he does actually describing the theory, which itself is good, but too short.
I would have loved, for example, if he integrated a discussion of transvestites into the implications of becoming-woman - that would have been very interesting, but instead it is presented as a quirky, Deleuzian aside.
Also, I randomly don't like Guattari.
Once again, Deleuze and Guattari give me words to outline the processes and flows of my own thought.I am constantly in a process of deterritorialization, attempting to break free of the systems and stagnations.I am a nomad of thought, of the heart, for thinking is being on the way, becoming.All is interconnected in flowing over, through and across.All lines must work out their motion before they can be detangled from the real. This book is an organ on the way to the complete decoding and detracing of this body without organs.
This is mind blowing. I don't think I totally understand everything but reading it and imagining what it means is a revelation. It seems to promote a consciousness of the world that is devoid of hierarchy and shatters fundamental categories. I decided to read this intermittently so far I finished chapter 5.
i loved reading this -- it was exciting and confrontational and challenged the primacy of psychoanalysis and all sorts of other 20th century "givens." to say that i READ the book is a lie. i read about 50-100 pages of it (the section dealing with the Body without Organs, a plane of being that we all strive towards) and plan of reading further into it.
Having by now most likely repeatedly revisited every section of _A thousand plateaus_ in numerous editions (french, pt-Portugal, pt-France, spanish, english), I still mark this as "read" with significant trepidation. I did move from an endless loop of rereading it out of order, as someone studies a holy book. You can easily lose two or three years with this. Worth it, ultimately.
Great article that made me want to attempt this author: http://htmlgiant.com/random/the-begin...
"With the bleeding of information from the material to the infomatic rhizome through Wikileaks (i.e. the US diplomatic cable leaks), the Infostate has created an asymmetrical insurgency against conventional power.
As Deleuze, then Agamben assert that power is the separation of the subject from potentiality, and as such mitigates dissent, the nation-state is trying to exert power by separating the means of support and the figurehead from Wikileaks, but distributed, asymmetrical cyberwarfare by the net.community has already disrupted banks, credit, and networked sites.
The centralized, hierarchical nature of the material corporate nation-state has been unable to contain the decentralized flow of cellular power, which has become infopower, created by the emergency of distributed networks.
Novi koncepti često predstaljaju i sadržajne hapakse, primjerice sematničko polje leksema "rizom" je obogaćeno novim značenjima.Ovaj dvojac je zbilja mogao biti novi Iljf i Petrov, trebali su nešto književno pisati, sjajni su s jezikom.
Ima tu nešto.Libtardstvo s kraja knjige (a i prije se to spominje bar jednom) kako manjina ne mora biti brojčana manjina (autori doživljavaju u jednom trenutku alt-right pomisao; pripadnica i pripadnika bijele rase je svakim danom sve manje, no to nije bitno, nebijeli će uvijek biti manjina, čak i da postanu brojčana većina u Europi) i kako su žene uvijek manjina.
I understood approximately none of this. 5/5
