https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/577283.The_Confessions_of_Nat_Turner
But I'm afraid I didn't find it especially beautiful – just overblown and consciously literary in a way that distracted from the story.Nat Turner writes suspiciously like William Styron – and identifying author with character turns out to be of particular concern in a book like this.
To speak the question, then, that lies behind these criticisms: if Nat's high writing style is more representative of the author than the character, then could the same be said of Nat's unpleasant opinions on race?That's ridiculous, right?
He loves his fellow slaves, but despises them for their ignorance; he even loves some of his masters, but hates them for their inability to act on their convictions; he loves Margaret Whitehead, but hates her for making him love her in a world where such love is forbidden; he loves God deeply, but in the end comes close to hating Him for calling him to such a dreadful task; and, most of all, he loves himself, but hates himself for being caught between worlds - too educated to belong to the slave community, but too dark-skinned to belong to the white community.
No niggers ever done anything like this.During my arrogant youth I signed up for a History of Slavery course, you know, so I could marshall evidence against The Man. I went the first day, inspired by Huey Newton, wearing a Ziggy Marley t-shirt, cargo pants and my Barca soccer cleats.
I tried to participate and often did, the undertow of history kept clipping my thoughts and outbursts.
The term project required reading a literary treatment of the period (Gone With The Wind, Beloved) and comparing it to slave narratives.
I did listen to Public Enemy after all.I did enjoy the novel and can remember a number of aspects.
Just be aware that Styron twisted some facets of history around & subscribed unsupportable motivations to Turner, a religious fanatic & a lunatic, by his own words to Thomas Ruffin Gray.
Gray was the lawyer who sat down with Turner while he was awaiting execution & wrote the first 'Confessions'.
His twisted confession is a chilling look at life through the eyes of a serial killer, a seriously deranged man.
It reads nothing like a man who wanted his physical freedom (he'd escaped & come back on his own, unlike his father who escaped & never returned) but more like a deranged man aiming for a baptism in blood.Reading some history on the reprisals that took place after this 'rebellion' makes for even more chilling reading.
Just as dishonest as Margaret Mitchell's GONE WITH THE WIND -- but not nearly as entertaining.William Styron's problem is that he's rotten with self-disgust, and trying desperately to vindicate the guilty south.
Here's what William Stryon wants to believe:Slavery, while a terrible curse on both races, cannot be blamed on the South.
Nat Turner is a terrible liar.
Now, something tells me that it's Styron who's looking for someone to blame for slavery.
The real Nat Turner knew who to blame, and acted accordingly.
Styron was a deeply troubled man and he collapsed artistically after writing this book.
Though unavoidably polemical, the book is nonetheless a deeply stirring contemplation of man’s place in the universe and his duties to his fellow man.The story is told through the eyes of a man convicted of leading one of the most notorious slave revolts in US history.
He is a man of God, and the book explores the circumstances that brought him to the decision to lead a rebellion that, by design, resulted in scores of murders.
Though a painful read at times, this is a hauntingly beautiful novel and I guess I come down in the camp of people, such as Styron’s friend, James Baldwin, who felt it was a work that needed to be done, regardless of the writer's race.

Too, he suffered a very long decline as a writer in his later years, with his fourth and final novel, the celebrated “Sophie’s Choice,” appearing in 1979; from then to his death in 2006 he published very little other than a brief memoir of his struggles with depression, “Darkness Visible,” and a brief collection of stories, “A Tidewater Morning.” Both these books were published in small formats with large print and wide margins in an obvious attempt to make them look more substantial than they were.
Author Styron has no question about the important presence his novel has; he states that he is giving readers a fictional presentation of the actual history surrounding our title "character" in 1831.
With 220 dead and America's laws at the time becoming increasingly harsh (think of the Fugitive Slave Law), how much more latitude does Styron need to express his point?With such a novel that uses an actual person and event, how much responsibility does Styron hold to historical accuracy?
What if authors decide they want to take some authorial license over the recent events in Rwanda, Cambodia, and Kosovo?I do not discount the fact that the actual historically-accurate circumstances regarding Nat Turner are of great significance today.
Karl’s American Fictions 1940-1980: A Comprehensive History and Critical Evaluation about a collection of responses to Styron’s book :: William Styron's Nat Turner: Ten Black Writers Respond.
As soon as Styron used Turner as his ‘I’ he became involved in in questions of verisimilitude beyond the distortions a literary genre permits; he became involved in his own credibility, which is one of the very areas the black critics questioned.” *[Karl’s own footnote] A very valuable document printed in 1968 (Beacon Press) William Styron’s Nat Turner: Ten Black Writers Respond, edited by John Henrik Clarke.
The magic of this book is that William Styron leads the reader through these thought processes, and shows how the heroic and religious Nat Turner could come to the conclusions he did.Finally, after reading this work, as well as the rather fascinating "The Bondwoman's Narrative" (a novel written by an actual escaped slave in the 1860's), and seeing how ingrained into popular thinking were slavery and its racist justifications, it is almost impossible to imagine that we, as a society, found our way out of it.
What further complicates the reading of this novel is the fact of it's author's whiteness, as well as the (non) issue of the artistic license that Styron took in his attempt to grapple with a subject that had tormented him his whole life.I can't say whether or not Styron was wrong to construct and inhabit the character of Nat Turner, telling his story in the first-person, but I truly feel that he wrote with integrity, and, as much as possible, he took away the white gaze that has been the cause of much erasure of black identities in novels by other American white men.
This book is an important one and worth reading for those interested in the enigmatic figure of Nat Turner.
A tremendously talented writer is Styron and a fascinating portrait of human bondage, madness and religious fervor gone amok. Very relevant to today on these topics, though set in early part of 19th century Virginia. Great research, exquisite detail and stupendous character development. One of the best "historical" novels I've read, and perhaps my favorite read of the year so far. Looking forward to reading all Styron.
Although I have come late to the joys of reading and still cannot properly “read,” I have known the crude shapes of simple words ever since I was six, when Samuel Turner, a methodical, tidy, and organized master, and long impatient with baking alum turning into white flour and cinnamon being confused with nutmeg, and vice versa, set about labeling every chest and jar and canister and keg and bag in the huge cellar beneath the kitchen where my mother dispatched me hourly every day.
He makes a compelling case for several decisions he made in writing the book that tread on issues of accuracy.However, in the Last Word contest I have yet to read the 1968 book “William Styron’s Nat Turner” in which ten black writers severely criticize Styron.
There is also a lengthier afterward in which he discusses how he came to write the novel, some of the controversy, and his reasoning for some of the positions he took regarding Nat Turner.
(The truth is that Turner's reason for his actions is unknown, so my interpretation of this reason comes from reading the novel.
This might not be correct, but I believe a quite reasonable interpretation.) Apparently there was dissent that a white man could write in the first person of a black man.
And then there was the controversy of a black man lusting after a white woman.
Black scum!"Turner's "Confession" exists.
Leave it to Styron to write a first-person perspective narrative of a black slave. If you want to revisit the offensive stereotype of a black man constantly fantasizing about sexually assaulting innocent white women, then go ahead and read it. I have no idea why this book won a Pulitzer.
So here are "The Confessions of Jennifer Hughes":Section 1: Hmm. Seems like a really interesting novel based on true historical events of the only effective, sustained revolt in the history of American slavery.
I'm thinking 4 or maybe 3 stars here.Section 2: Confusing, circular method of story-telling.
Down to 2 stars.Section 3: Aagh!
1 star!Section 4: Poignant.
I feel for the real man Nat Turner but want to avoid any future contact with author William Styron!If you want an excellent book on slavery in America, read Roots; it's fabulous.
Save yourself 428 pages and read this Wikipedia entry instead about the real Nat Turner.
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nat_Turner
He went on to argue that "the writer's relation to historical reality—be he playwright or novelist—can be no different in principle from his relation to reality as a whole." A historical novel isn’t supposed to be history refashioned with a novelist's tools; it’s a novel written with historical material.I'm only bringing this up because it seems that a lot of critics over the years have accused William Styron of writing bad history with The Confessions of Nat Turner.
He felt he had been ordained by God, to fight a cause and start an insurrection against the horrors of slavery.
This is a fictionalized account of this story, narrated by Turner, as he lies in his cell, shackled, awaiting his execution.There was rampant controversy surrounding this novel, on it's release in 1967.
America was in revolt at the time, over civil rights issues and having a white southerner pen this story, caused an uproar.
I can not address those allegations, with any authority but I found this to be a deep, ambitious examination of a man, fighting against injustice.
Of William Styron's four main works of fiction (meaning, in this case, full-length novels), the Pulitzer-winning "The Confessions of Nat Turner" is my least favorite.
The book seems less controversial today, what with find-your-own-slant-and-run-with-it novelizations of history and historical figures all over the bookshelves.
For instance, if you hated Russell Banks' "Cloudsplitter" (I loved it) you'd probably hate "The Confessions of Nat Turner."Keep in mind that Styron isn't making an attempt at straight history, and you'll enjoy this.
As always, Styron writes so damned well that his subject matter often doesn't matter that much.
William Styron's The Confessions of Nat TurnerTHE GATHERINGWhereupon all members of the congregation are seated.THE LECTIONARYFirst Reading On Being Brought from Africa to America'Twas mercy brought me from my Pagan land,Taught my benighted soul to understandThat there's a God, that there's a Saviour too:Once I redemption neither sought nor knew.Some view our sable race with scornful eye,"Their colour is a diabolic die."Remember, Christians, Negros, black as Cain,May be refin'd, and join th' ang
William Styron's The Confessions of Nat TurnerTHE GATHERINGWhereupon all members of the congregation are seated.THE LECTIONARYFirst Reading
On Being Brought from Africa to America'Twas mercy brought me from my Pagan land,Taught my benighted soul to understandThat there's a God, that there's a Saviour too:Once I redemption neither sought nor knew.Some view our sable race with scornful eye,"Their colour is a diabolic die."Remember, Christians, Negros, black as Cain,May be refin'd, and join th' angelic train.Phyllis Wheatley, a slave poet, 1753–1784To be continued...
I read what I think was the 25th anniversary edition with an additional "look back" by the author coming at the end of the book.
It was very interesting as it described his process in making some of the decisions he was faced with where there were gaps in the historical record, or when it seemed that something contrary to the record might work better for the purposes of his novel.
The writing was interesting, albeit a little lengthy, and I will consider more by this author.
I would be interested to know how the work is currently regarded by the African American community as some additional time has now passed since this edition was published.
Styron's Nat Turner seems to be awash in controversy which makes me hesitate to throw my opinion onto the pile but what they hey?
Styron threw in the old chestnut of a black man lusting after a white woman which made my head ache.
To juxtapose this book I'm also reading Stephen Oates' "Fires of Jubilee" which is an historical account of this same time and incident and it's helping me separate fact and fiction.
If nothing else Styron's book promotes a need to know and understand.
Even if it hadn't done this for me I'd still read it because of it's literary value.
This novel puts an agonizing face on the institution of slavery and explains, from Nat Turner's perspective, the 1831 slave revolt in southeastern Virginia. I've found it hard to get this book out of my mind.
Styron's grandmother had owned slaves while James Baldwin's grandparents had been slaves, establishing an odd linkage to their general interest in narratives dealing with slavery & race relations and in the Nat Turner insurrection in particular.
So many years after the 1967 publication of The Confessions of Nat Turner, some continue to question William Styron's particular use of black slang, his "intrusion" into a world not his own & his personal interpretation of Nat Turner's character, even calling the novel "The Confessions of William Styron".
There's a basic level of propaganda in that choice, but it's propaganda I am down with; I like that narrative in his contemporary early Civil Rights context, though it's an entirely different propaganda choice than creating a Black Power Nat Turner, which is probably one closer to the truth.I kind of hated, though also loved, Sophie's Choice because of the casual way Styron toyed with sexual violence and intimate partner abuse, using them as props for a bigger psychological story.
As a former literature student with little to no knowledge of the real Nat Turner, I approached and judged this novel on the strength of its narrative.
Styron constructs a story within a story: the reader meets Turner as he prepares for trial.
After the prosecutor reads Turner's "confessions," Nat gives the reader the background that leads to his rebellion.
The story closes as Nat is taken to the gallows.What I find interesting (again as a student of literature), is the way Styron plays with the notions of story, confession, and motive.
Nat "confesses" to all of these things at some point in his narrative.
As for the story, which takes the scant historical fact of slave rebellion leader Nat Turner and turns it into a bold feat of writerly imagination, it is disturbing, haunting, and totally engrossing.
Although Styron's telling was (and may still be) highly controversial [possibly a understatement, considering what I've read so far], it brings a tangible humanity to a being who was always more symbol than actual historical figure.
But for this reader at least, I'm awed by Styron's scope and his brave attempt to say something about the impact of slavery on a South he grew up in and could never quite make peace with.
I expected some kind of dry, fact-by-fact account of an event in the history of the U.S. Instead, this book brought Nat Turner to life for me.
I thought Styron dealt fairly with both, complex sides of Nat: a caring, religious-minded, genuinely good person and the man who had simply had enough of the blatant unfairness of his own life and the lives of fellow blacks.
I almost screamed with rage at one point in the book because of the injustice Nat had to endure at the greedy hands of a so-called man of God.Injustice and unfairness happen to everyone, some of us more harshly than others and on a larger scale.
A controversial winner of the 1967 Pulitzer PrizeHere we are, 34 years later and  The Confessions of Nat Turner  is still in the news. Most recently, Henry Louis Gates, Jr made comments (positive ones, now. Originally negative impressions, years ago) about the book. The primary controversy is quite simple - how can a white man, a southerner, and the descendent of slave owners write a novel about one of the few slaves who actually stood up and demanded his freedom by leading a rebellion? Some hav
A controversial winner of the 1967 Pulitzer PrizeHere we are, 34 years later and 
Originally negative impressions, years ago) about the book.
The primary controversy is quite simple - how can a white man, a southerner, and the descendent of slave owners write a novel about one of the few slaves who actually stood up and demanded his freedom by leading a rebellion?
Some have even asserted that he did not even have the right to write the book in the first place - after all, it is not HIS history.But, is Nat Turner to be forever held apart?
Is African-American history to be held apart?
