https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7329.Unfinished_Tales_of_N_menor_and_Middle_Earth
On the one hand it gave us the wonderfully deep world and implied distances of The Lord of the Rings; and on the other hand it left us with a jumble of tales in various states of revision and development that had to be compiled by Tolkien's son Christopher into some form as The Silmarillion...a jumble of tales that, if they had been finished, would have given us a truly staggering body of work.
Even given the incomplete nature of the works herein, the reader is greatly repaid the effort of reading them even though many tantalizing questions are left unanswered.
I buddy-read The Lord of the Rings over the course of 2016 and was quite overwhelmed with Tolkien’s dense writing style and complex world building; there were too many names of people, places and events to remember, I felt inept.
The Silmarillion is still my absolute favorite work of his, even though it was just as overwhelming in regards to being exposed to all sorts of different people and their backstories, the tales, however, had a certain charm and brilliancy to them, I grew to love so many characters (Fëanor, Túrin Turambar and Lúthien), I needed to know more about them.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Numenor: Unfinished Tales" by J.
Tolkien(Original Review, 1980-10-13)The new Tolkien book is out.
While I haven't read even half of it, I think I've read enough to produce a helpful review, so here goes.
This book ("Unfinished Tales" by JRR Tolkien, $15 from Houghton Mifflin) is definitely not a book for a general readership, nor even for the mass Tolkien consumer, who thinks that Lord of the Rings is a swell story, but all that linguistic and historical stuff is just a lot of window-dressing.
O ana kadar hep büyük ustanın bir dünya kurguladığını, başarılı karakterlere kalemiyle can verip koca kadim topraklarda kaderlerini çizmeye yolladığını düşünmüştük.
O gerçek anlamda kendi özünden bir dünya “yarattı.” Belki de Eru Ilúvatar başından beri kendisiydi de, biz bunu anlamak için o eseri okumak zorundaydık.Tüm bunları anlamamızı sağlayan o muazzam eser aynı zamanda pek çok kişi tarafından da hayatının kitabı addedilmiştir.
Ve işte, Bitmemiş Öyküler de Silmarillion’un tahtını sağlamlaştırmak adına var.Öykülerin her biri ayrı birer şaheser.
Fakat burada oğul Cristopher Tolkien’in emeği hiçbir şekilde göz ardı edilemez.
Ama bunun için önce Tolkien’in rehberliğiyle bilgilerine ihtiyacımız var; Bitmemiş Öyküler de tam olarak bunu yapmak için burada.
برای خواندن کتاب های تالکین (به خصوص یادداشتهایی که پسرش در قالب کتاب چاپ کرده) به قلم و کاغذ و اطلس سرزمین میانه نیاز است.
حتی ریشه یابی اسامی و کلمات هم می تواند یکی از کلیدی ترین کار های حین خواندن باشد!این کتاب درباره ی حوادث نومه نور و دوران دوم آرداست.
جالب ترین ویژگی کتاب تشابه بسیار سلطنت نومه نور به خاندان سلطنتی انگلستان بود.
مهم ترین ویژگی برای ترجمه ی آثار تالکین اطلاع از جهانِ اوست که فکر می کنم آقای علیزاده این اطلاعات را دارد.
After the success of the Silmarillion, the Tolkien state has published all notes that were in a more or less readable state.
This is the only one I bought (besides Chidren of Hurin, which probably has much in common with the bigger part of this book).I do not think Professor Tolkien would have liked to have these drafts and notes published.
Many of them are even obsolete, as he built up and discarded elements in his mythic construct.There are some great storytelling moments (specially in the tales about Hurin and his children), but mostly it is not so interesting, except in an academic way, to see how Tolkien constructed and evolved his stories.
The 'Tolkien kick' continues.4-4.5 stars after a little more thought.I feel like this is definitely gonna be a book that I need to re-read every year to try and get as much as I can out of it. Same with The Silmarillion and The Lord of the Rings tbh.I love Middle-earth so much.
This is a hard book to rate, because it's sort of like rating a compilation album of Led Zeppelin studio out-takes.
And, indeed, this book is a collection of scrapings, random essays and bits of narrative illuminating obscure corners of Middle Earth.
JRR Tolkien's son, though is extraordinarily careful to give the exact providence and goes into excruciating detail as to the provenance of every piece of writing in Unfinished Tales.
The subtext of the father-son relationship, or lack thereof, might make this an interesting read...
Really, for LotR/Middle Earth obsessives only.
The textual situation for many of the pieces is complex -- as mentioned above, there are footnotes and endnotes (some added by J.R.R. Tolkien during his drafting process and some added by Christopher Tolkien when assembling the pieces for publication) and editorial notes and changes of voice between the text and the commentary on the text.
Footnotes and endnotes are better handled (on the Kindle you can hyperlink from the text to the associated note) but it's still less convenient than just flipping back and forth in a physical book.
Thoroughly enjoyed this, it was just so great to learn more about both old and new characters!! Tolkien's middle earth is so rich and beautiful and it was amazing to be able to delve even deeper into it!
He didn't correct inconsistencies or do too much to the material, and that's for the best: J.R.R.'s intent and the breadth of his world are best experienced this way, I think.I don't think this is one for the casual reader, but for someone interested in Tolkien and his creation of a secondary world, and in the details of Middle-earth, it's a good one.
Όχι απλά αξίζει να διαβαστεί, επιβάλλεται για τους λάτρεις. Είναι γεμάτο πληροφορίες που ήξερες ό,τι ήθελες, όπως μια ανάλυση για τους Ιστάρι και μια διήγηση για την πτώση του Ισίλντουρ, αλλά και που δεν ήξερες ό,τι υπάρχουν για να θέλεις (εγώ προσωπικά τουλάχιστον), όπως οι ακριβείς επαφές του Θόριν με τον Γκάνταλφ πριν ξεκινήσει η αποστολή στο Έρεμπορ και γιατί προέκυψε το συμβόλαιο με τον Μπίλμπο ως κλέφτη.Δεν είναι ελαφρύ ανάγνωσμα, αλλά πιάστε το οπωσδήποτε!
Todas estas áreas estão incluídas no O Silmarillion, a história da Terra Média anterior ao O Hobbit e O Senhor dos Anéis estes contos são um seu complemento.Representou para mim um conjunto heterodoxo de experiências.
Por um lado, esclarecimentos sobre diversos pontos nebulosos das anteriores narrativas, sempre com o cunho da sua capacidade de nos encantar, como que aliciando-nos para uma boa história, à luz da lareira numa noite fria de inverno, capaz de mudar o curso das nossas vidas.
This book is a collection of unfinished pieces (I mean, the title?) from LOTR, The Hobbit, The Silmarillion and other like books.
The parts I enjoyed most were ones that directly filled gaps and/or answered questions arisen while reading The Hobbit and Lord of the Rings.
Overall, I recommended this to anyone who loves Lord of the Rings and The Hobbit and those who have already read The Silmarillion.
Almost every so called "plot hole" that people talk about is explained in this book as well as in others.
Of course, Tolkien's main work can be enjoyed without reading this.
I would recommend this to anyone who's read the Silmarillion and is interested in more history of Middle-Earth.
The First Age only has two stories, the first of which is definitely "unfinished." It's about Tuor, an Elf-friend (and grandfather to Elrond, FYI) and the fall of Gondolin, the hidden Elvish kingdom.
The main story also ends somewhat abruptly and is sad in nature, but again, Christopher Tolkien outlines how it may have ended.There's also a lot of contradictory writings about Galadriel and Celeborn, and it seems Tolkien never made up his mind on what their history definitively was.The Third Age has a lot of interesting stories, including the history or Rohan and their friendship with Gondor, details of battles only briefly mentioned in the Lord of the Rings, the powers of the Nazgul, the five wizards and their origins, details about the palantirs, and more.
Chociaż połowy postaci i miejsc już nie kojarzyłam (jeśli chodzi o Pierwszą i Drugą Erę), ale to jest chyba w pewien sposób zaletą - za każdym razem odkrywasz uniwersum jakby na nowo.
Uwielbiam historię o Túrinie i Niënor, i uwielbiam absolutnie wszystko, co dotyczy Trzeciej Ery. Ta książka pochłonęła mnie szybciej niż Silmarillion, ale to pewnie dlatego, że nie ma tu takich długich wprowadzeń.
Cieszyłam się jak dziecko, gdy odkryłam, że sprawy w Mordorze czy Isengardzie nie były tak oczywiste, jak wydawało się na pierwszy rzut oka.
For the April 13th gathering of the Tolkien Society of Kansas City, we will finish our reading of Unfinished Tales and letters 131 through 146 in The Letters of J.R.R. Tolkien. Friday, April 13, 2018 at 6:00 p.m. at the Plaza Branch of the Kansas City Public Library.I'm also concurrently listening to the related Mythgard Academy podcasts: https://mythgard.org/academy/unfinished-tales/
It took me ages to read, but it was wholly fascinating how much detail lies behind every individual action in Middle Earth. It has inspired me to reread The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings again. I feel like everything will make so much more sense!
Orta Dünya hakkında ne kadar kitap yazılırsa yazılsın, hep anlatılacak bir başka öykü daha vardır sanırım.
Kısa bir öyküydü, biraz sıkıcıydı :) Sonra Hurin'in çocuklarının öyküsü geliyor ve kendinizi kaptırmaya başlıyorsunuz.
Saruman, Sauron'un müttefiki gibi görünse de aslında tüm yüzükleri ve de tabiki efendilerini kendisi için istiyor.
Daha sonra İsildur'un ölümünün öyküsü geliyor.
Kitabın sonlarına doğru ISTARI adlı bir bölüm var burada Orta Dünya'ya gönderilen 5 büyücünün öyküsünü okuyoruz.
Saruman, Gandalf, Radagast ve Mavi Büyücüler denilen diğer ikisi...
Mavi Büyücüler hikayede bir daha hiç geçmemiş bu yüzden adları tam olarak bilinmiyor.
Nitekim, Orta Dünya'ya benim kadar meraklıysanız kesinlikle okumanız gereken bir kitap olduğunu düşünüyorum.
Unfinished Tales helps to shed light on the complex creation of Middle-Earth and the many tales and legends that relate the events in its long and largely tumultuous history.I found this book to be very interesting with a number of wonderful never before told tales from Tolkien's furiously hoarded safe box of writings such as "Of Tuor and His Coming to Gondolin", "The Disaster of The Gladden Fields" and my personal favorite "Aldarion and Erendis: The Mariner's Wife".
A fascinating look at many of the stories that did not make it into Professor Tolkien's primary works.
This is probably one of my favorite books of this well-known mythology.(view spoiler)[I think my favorite part of this book is the chapter concerning the history of Galadriel and Celeborn.
Tolkien clearly had many different ideas for their origins, and it's utterly fascinating to see those ideas laid out.
It also makes a person wonder what he ultimately would have laid down for them.
Given how well-versed Tolkien was in history, I doubt that resemblance was coincidental.
I have so enjoyed finishing these Unfinished Tales with my chapter a day group. Tolkien was a great, and immensely nuanced storyteller, his son Christopher a devoted son and detailed story archiver, whose life work allowed us to see the depth of creativity and true craft his father put into all his tales. I’ve truly enjoyed the surface tale, as well as the the deeper tale behind its creation and evolution.
Unfinished Tales of Númenor and Middle-Earth, J.R.R. Tolkien قصههای ناتمام نومهنور و سرزمین میانه - دوران دوم
Unfinished Tales of Númenor and Middle-Earth, J.R.R. Tolkien قصه‌های ناتمام نومه‌نور و سرزمین میانه - دوران دوم

This book is for the nerdiest of Tolkien nerds.
The most dissappointing chapter that I read was "Galadriel and Celeborn," and that's only because it was one of the least finished by Tolkien.
There are a LOT of tiny little details in these unfinished tails that are really good to know if you're the type of person to re-read LOTR and The Silmarillian every year.
It's also nice to read some of the notes that JRR wrote about his essays in this book, because he often says things like, "I don't know what happened," to a certain character.
I bought this book at a used book store in Rome.
I read it in the evenings right before bed and on long train trips.
When I was leaving Rome for the last time, I had no room in my suitcase, so I sacrificed that book and left it at the hotel.
The cover I selected is the one I left behind.
Most books I found in that hotel were old guide books.
I always wondered if someone found it curious that there was a Tolkien book on the shelf!This book is a must for any Tolkien fan.
Tough read but a pleasure.
The greatest about this, to me: seeing behind the scenes at Tolkien' s creative process.
It inspires me to sit down, for pleasure, and create/ build my own world 20 minutes at a time, and use this as a canvas to paint short stories and go from there.
Love Tolkien.
Plans change, especially mine, but I plan to read my top three authors in depth this year including their bibliographies and auto/ biographies.
Tolkien, Kafka and Poe. Also plan to seek one new favorite this year, specifically Charles Dickens and David Copperfield.
این کتاب، مجموعهای از داستانهاییه که تالکین تا پایان عمرش نتونسته بود اونها رو به انسجام کلّی برسونه و ببنده. در کتاب اصلی، حدیث تور و آمدن او به گوندولین هم هست که در ایران، اون داستان پیشتر به پیوست فرزندان هورین منتشر شده بود و طبعاً در این کتاب نیست. میشه گفت که کتاب حاضر یک داستان تقریباً کامل، با پایان کمی نامعلوم داره که به زندگی و سرگذشت تار آلداین نومهنوری میپردازه و یک داستان دیگه در مورد گالادریل که در جزئیات دارای اختلافهای زیاده و کریستوفر تالکین همهٔ حالتهای موجود در نوشتههای مختلف
‫این کتاب، مجموعه‌ای از داستان‌هاییه که تالکین تا پایان عمرش نتونسته بود اون‌ها رو به انسجام کلّی برسونه و ببنده.
در کتاب اصلی، حدیث تور و آمدن او به گوندولین هم هست که در ایران، اون داستان پیش‌تر به پیوست فرزندان هورین منتشر شده بود و طبعاً در این کتاب نیست.
می‌شه گفت که کتاب حاضر یک داستان تقریباً کامل، با پایان کمی نامعلوم داره که به زندگی و سرگذشت تار آلداین نومه‌نوری می‌پردازه و یک داستان دیگه در مورد گالادریل که در جزئیات دارای اختلاف‌های زیاده و کریستوفر تالکین همهٔ حالت‌های موجود در نوشته‌های مختلف پدرش رو آورده.
بقیهٔ اون توضیحات و پیوست‌ها ست که البته خوندش برای دوست‌داران دنیای تالکین، خالی از جذابیت نیست.
In retrospect I'm amazed that I ever managed to drudge through this collection of unfinished and/or abandoned stories from middle earth. But then again, I did once pull myself through the insomnia obliteration that is The Silmarillion. "Rings" fans will not think twice about reading this of course (and will certainly not weigh in my input), but for the rest of us, the original trilogy and The Hobbit goes a very long way.
Discussion on the blog! http://booksandbeverages.org/2016/08/...
