https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/665.The_Virtue_of_Selfishness
I didn't really get this book when I first read it, but having read it multiple time since, it's become like a bible. Rand outlines her Objectivist philosophy and explains the concept of rational self-interest. This book will turn you into an asshole once you read it, someone will smack you, you'll read it again, pick up the part everyone misses (about morality being intrinsic, not non-existent) and then you'll live a happier, more whimsical life.
This book once meant a lot to me. When I was 15. If anything written by Ayn Rand means a lot to you and you're not going through adolescence, you should be ashamed of yourself. Yeah, I know I sound like a self-righteous douchebag, but seriously. Give me a break.
Similarly, “looters are parasites incapable of survival” (id.)--but you just said “If some men attempt to survive by means of brute force or fraud, by looting, robbing, cheating or enslaving the men who produce, it still remains true that their survival is made possible only by their victims” (id.) (emphasis added)?Without any rationale, “the only proper, moral purpose of government is to protect man’s rights” (NB: collective rights-holder), which boils down to “without property rights, no other rights are possible” (33).
It's only because we have bought into the principle of sacrificing oneself for the greater good that armies can survive, yet the reason is so others can accumulate or obtain what you should be able to.In her philosophy, the happiness of the individual is paramount.
Religious types will find her philosophy more than unsettling, because as an atheist, she values the present and current life above everything else.
It's just that helping others should not be at one's own expense, e.g., spending a fortune to cure one's wife of a disease because the wife is important to oneself would fit nicely into her worldview.
The best thought I embraced from this book was a simple, yet powerful, soundbite: "A plant will not destroy itself, but man will".Towards the end of the school year, a couple of kids in class had some serious self-destructive behavior--not just your run-of-the-mill, "I didn't do my homework." I dropped math for the day and we had an outstanding class discussion about how a plant will grow around a rock to seek light, and that roots grow deep to seek water--doing everything it can to sustain itself.
The kids immediately made the connection that man allows his brain to act without rational thought and ends up destroying itself.
In case you think these ideas are marginal to the party, remember - it has united behind the budget plan of Wisconsin Representative Paul Ryan.
Ryan says "the reason I got involved in public service" was because he read the writings of Ayn Rand, which describe the poor as "parasites" who must "perish", and are best summarized by the title of one of her books: 'The Virtue of Selfishness.'By the way, non-British readers may be interested to learn that this typical pinko liberal paper is owned by Russian multi-billionaire and former KGB officer, Alexander Lebedev.
For many years, Paul Ryan devoted himself to Ayn Rand's philosophy of selfishness as a virtue.
Altruism ain't all its cracked up to be.Although she tends to take things a bit too far, Rand touches on an often overlooked point of life: we are the ones best-equipped to care for ourselves.
It is a wonderful and necessary aspect of humanity when we chose to show charity and care for others, but when is it appropriate to sacrifice ourselves for the well-being of another?
You would jump into a rushing river to save your child, but would you do the same for an elderly stranger?
A young stranger?
Government have sometimes appealed to altruism to foster policies that in fact were harmful to the populace.
Supposedly a scholarly work of philosophy, this book has inspired many people (some of whom I admire), but I found the shrillness which Rand employs in her "reasoning" is matched only by her supreme arrogance.
The odd thing about Ayn Rand is that many of her chief followers are religious (Glenn Beck for example); apparently many would be Objectivists only read the sections on looking out for # 1 and how being egotistical is the only way to lead mankind to advancement, while ignoring Rand's militant atheism.
نمی دونم واقعاً اگر همه این گونه بشوند دنیا چگونه میشود ولی مهم نیست، من این گونه میشوم
نمی دونم واقعاً اگر همه این گونه بشوند دنیا چگونه می‌شود ولی مهم نیست، من این گونه میشوم
This woman, Ayn Rand, is more bizarre than bizarre can ever be!
Who in the big, wide world would be in his right mind and still write a book to praise selfishness?!
As if to be self-centered needs to be praised or called even virtuous!
And she calls that philosophy!
But with that spirit in which she praises selfishness you will find that a common theme in all of her writings.
What kind of life is that when you live it, far and wide, praising selfishness?
But only Ayn Rand can do that and call that philosophy!
(The Fountainhead, which I think is a far superior book from a strictly literary perspective, came out in 1943, and was intended, in her words, to be "a portrayal of the ideal man".) Critics savaged Atlas Shrugged almost immediately, but the public took a kinder view of it, and Miss Rand, after a period of depression caused by the lack of serious consideration of her work in academic circles, founded an organization (now known as The Ayn Rand Institute) to promote her philosophy.
collectivism, and if you've read Atlas Shrugged or know about the Russia Rand immigrated from, you know where she stands on that issue.There were a couple of chapters I liked in particular.
I liked the discussion about the importance of property rights.
Rand asserts that there are no individual rights without property rights.
I also liked the chapter on racism quite a bit.
Rand says that racism is a primitive form of collectivism.
The smallest minority of all is the individual, she says.
I like Rand's cool, clear logic, but I do have a couple of criticisms.
I could write an entire dissertation on the inconsistencies of Rand's philosophy and the arguments she makes, but I'll behave and limit myself to just one criticism: she flagrantly disregards the meaning of the term "ethics" and argues that a purely "selfish" approach (i.e. one that is concerned only with one's self) is not only a rational thing to do, but it is, in fact, an ethical approach to take.The first part of her argument does make sense if you boil rationality down to a purely biological need to survive and function in this world.
What chutzpah.It's even better than the academics who cite things they haven't written yet.Why have I picked it up?
It made me closely examine what's in the bookshelf in the room in which I am generally living at the moment.Oh yes.
You get the drift.Of course, guests would have to live with it, but at the very least it would ensure that they moved on at a decent pace.
Little did I know it would be my place of residence later on.
Major reorganisation of bookshelves to take place.
Things to dream by.
Anything written by Ayn Rand has substantial merits.So is it good to be selfish?
For instance: "Indiscriminate tolerance and indiscriminate condemnation are not two opposites: they are two variants of the same evasion."Rand addresses society's tendency to hold down, to make the hard-working, thinking, responsibility-taking person feel guilty, when in reality logic demands that the opposite should be the case.
More precisely, the problem of survival is solved, by recognizing that survival demands constant growth and creativeness."Have you worked hard to achieve something?
This is Rand's philosophy, and if this is selfishness, than selfishness is indeed a virtue.
Ayn Rand was once asked if she could present the essence of her philosophy while standing on one foot.
She answered: Metaphysics: Objective Reality; Epistemology: Reason; Ethics: Self-interest; Politics: Capitalism.
I found I liked better Spinoza's formulation of the question of ethics.
Spinoza, like Aristotle (and Rand), emphasizes that ethics is about human flourishing and happiness.
But you know, were it not for Rand bringing philosophy alive to me and convincing me it's important I would never have read Aristotle--or Spinoza.
If you start with an end goal of a successful and rationally fulfilled life as the standard of your values, you will not seek anything which is not value, and therefor you will not seek those things which are irrational or conducive to your end goal.
Rand explains the self defeating impossible contradiction inherent within all systems of ethics which start with Altruism, and how such philosophies contributed and continue to create the worst atrocities the world has ever witnessed, and that because the basis of their values is the irrational, they create impossible contradictions and seek to gain fulfillment by destruction.
I found this book to be worth reading.After twenty one years of sacrificing my life and raising two arrogant teenagers who remain ungrateful for my efforts.I understand what Rand is trying to say.We cant always do all the giving because we will end up spent with nothing to show for it.We must nurture ourselves always, in this way we will have inner strength and the ability to get through life regardless what may come our way.
Rand's "Virtue of Selfishness" seems to ring true in many respects for me.
This book by novelist and philosopher Ayn Rand, (author of "Atlas Shrugged" and "The Fountainhead") is an ethical treatise on her philosophy of Objectivism, which sets out the principles of rational egoism—selfishness—and is the answer to thousands of years of the ethics of self-sacrifice—altruism.
Or, to quote Miss Rand: "My philosophy, in essence, is the concept of man as a heroic being, with his own happiness as the moral purpose of his life, with productive achievement as his noblest activity, and reason as his only absolute."This book contains many incisive essays on how American culture is inundated with primitive philosophical ideals, and needs nothing less than a moral revolution.
Recently Right to Education was enacted and intellectuals hailed it as a major success of Indian democracy.
As the Indian Govt paves the way for Right to Food Act, I see that there is an increasing need for more people to read this book and realise what they are witnessing is not the victory of Indian democracy over poverty and hunger, a victory of the principles of modern day altruism, the success of government over economic ills.What we are seeing is the constant abdication of private rights to the ruling minority.
And yet our unfocused collective eyes see only perceived success.A must read for those who are young and conscientious.
Rand and Branden try to explain how the philosophy of objectivism is that individuals need to think through their own rational system of morals and ethics.
The problem is that a lot of the points in Rand's essays are either not logically sound or based on incorrect premises.
(And I was pretty bored by Branden's sycophantic essays.) It's like swimming through mud.For one thing, Rand refers a great deal to biological examples, and she repeatedly gets biology wrong.
Obviously, she's not a biological scientist, and we know more today about biology than in the 1960s, but she premises her ethics arguments on the natural world- and her basis is incorrect.
Но для Айн Рэнд версия такого "разумного эгоизма" слишком мягкая; в ей понимании "правильные" эгоисты как-то всё больше смахивают на помесь социопата с социофобом :)) 4.
Если ты как-то хочешь помочь другим, то это только твоё добровольное решение - и никто не может принуждать тебя к этому ни словом, ни делом.
А как быть с теми, кто не может о себе позаботиться?
PS Сдаётся мне, что если бы человечество в один прекрасный день решило бы жить по книгам Айн Рэнд, то мы бы просто не выжили.
I really like many of the values Objectivism champions: reason, ethics, self-love, self-esteem, self-reliance, individualism, joy, and pleasure.
Of course, Ayn Rand is the authority on Right and Wrong, although this is neatly couched in the claim that her advocated morality is objective.She seems to be reacting against a world that I'm unfamiliar with--a world divided between creative people who just want to do their thing, and parasites who just want to steal all their hard work.
Rand believes the only rights are individual rights, that there is no such thing as a collective.Objectivism also distinguishes between selfishness and a hive mentality that she calls altruism.
Ayn Rand's philosophy, Objectivism, is often misinterpreted and misused, without ever being studied or even read.
Often, the argument is that 'capitalism' has failed, and therefore Rand's philosophy is a failure as well.
The Virtue of Selfishness, as provocative a title as the book may have, is a philosophical synopsis of the application of Rand's philosophy, objectivism; it is not Rand's philosophy in itself.Those that have read Rand know that her writing style is straight-forward, holding no bars against those that she disagrees with while at the same time providing valid arguments in a clear and concise manner.
I had not realized how much her philosophy had infiltrated politics until I was reading almost verbatim what some politicians today say.
For me then, this book was essentially an 'introductory guide' to Rand's philosophy and while I might not agree with everything I believe it is a good place to start if you want to learn what she preached.I found the book also encouraged me to think, whether it was thinking through why I disagreed with her or discovering she put into words some things I have felt but didn't have the ability to verbalize.
I found her writing and beliefs liberating and I feel no pressure from anyone else to live out my dreams, nor do I care about their opinions.
I would recommend this book to anyone who is unsure and hesitant about what they want in life.The most eye opening part of the book was how she elaborates on love.
"If a man loves a woman so much that he does not wish to survive her death, if life can have nothing more to offer him at that price, this dying to save her is not a sacrifice." Although it may sound extreme, this action is the only option.
I live for myself.

My advice would be to spend your time on a more useful endeavour...
Por ejemplo, defiende la tabla rasa en contraposición a la idea de que el comunismo pueda llegar a heredarse por condicionamiento, pero ambas cosas quedaron desmontadas en The Blank Slate: The Modern Denial of Human Nature (otro libro valiente); por otra parte, su defensa a ultranza del individualismo y el egoísmo en contraposición al altruismo como creador de esclavitud moral desconoce el mero concepto de sistema o la creación de sinergias como resultado de la cooperación; si no, que se lo digan a los organismos procariotas de los que descendemos.Sinceramente, creo que el mundo es mucho más complicado de lo que la autora previó, y sospecho que su juventud en la dictadura soviética forjó gran parte de su pensamiento en contraposición a sus vivencias; mi experiencia me dicta que intentar tener pensamientos sociopolíticos cuando sientes mucha ira causa sobreproducción intelectual e ideas poco maduras y contextualizadas.Por otra parte, ¿quién soy yo para criticar la obra de una reputada filósofa?
There is a chapter in Victor Hugo's Les Miserables wherein he describes in acute detail the barren, cold chapel at the monastery, bereft of any material placement. The description was bleak and harsh.That is how I would describe this book. Rand's cold, sharp, clinical approach towards man's motivations and existence leaves one cold. While she does have some points about the necessity of ego versus altruism, her position on the far edge of the spectrum is neither healthy or helpful.This book gets two stars because the language is direct and clear. The message is brutal but it's definitely clear.
