https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/953562.Poet_in_New_York
I want to cry because I feel like itas the boys in the back row cry,because I am not a man nor a poet nor a leafbut a wounded pulse that probes the things of the other side. Poetry is an odd thing. You notice this when you encounter poetry in a second language. This happened to me a few weeks ago, when I went to a poetry reading in Madrid. There were four or five poets there, some of them fairly well-known, with a crowd of hushed listeners hanging on their every word. Meanwhile, with my very im
“Look, I can be a poet,” I said to a friend after the show: “A cow is a moon, / a moon is a balloon.” That’s really how it sounded to me.In a way, this isn’t surprising, of course; but it got me thinking how strange a thing is poetry.
This makes his poetry doubly hard for a foreigner like me to appreciate, since the specific emotional flavors of his words are bland in my mouth.
Rather, I think these poems must be read simply for the beauty of the language, the striking collisions of words, the flashes of light and the rumblings of sound.
No one, no one.No one sleeps.Lunar creatures sniff and circle the dwellings.Live iguanas will come to bite the men who don’t dream,and the brokenhearted fugitive will meet on street cornersan incredible crocodile resting beneath the tender protest of thestars.Out in the world, no one sleeps.
Watch out!Those still marked by claws and cloudburst,that boy who cries because he doesn’t know about the inventionof bridges,or that corpse that has nothing more than its head and one shoe—they all must be led to the wall where iguanas and serpents wait,where the bear’s teeth wait,where the mummified hand of a child waitsand the camel’s fur bristles with a violent blue chill.Out in the sky, no one sleeps.
De Lorca no hay que hablar, hay que leer, leer, leer...
The idea of the Spanish poet Lorca on the Brooklyn Bridge was hard for me to imagine, seemed implausible somehow, but eventually I realized this was only because I saw the bridge as such contemporary symbol.
I always wondered, and when I realized he had published a collection called Poet in New York, I figured that would have the answer.
Granted, my Spanish is not the best, but, whether justified or not, my doubts didn't improve my experience of the book.I wouldn't discourage anyone from reading Poet in New York—there is most definitely a lot that's interesting here.
Hay quien dice que el público adoraba Romancero Gitano porque lo entendía. Éste no se entendió. Yo debo de ser una de esas personas.Publicado póstumamente en 1940.
Imprescindible. No sólo por ser Lorca, por ser un gran nombre de nuestras letras. Imprescindible por sí mismo. Una gran lectura.http://entremontonesdelibros.blogspot...
o Lorca. If only you were buried nearby so I could hump your grave while sobbing. Best, most tortured, sweetest, strangest, most bitter.
Critics often call him a 'surreal' poet, but the seemingly random symbols of the horse, frog, elephant, dove and crocodile are repeated endlessly, creating a running thread through the collection which grounds them against the fanciful flight of surrealism.Lorca doesn't take the obvious route of describing skyscrapers and sniping the greed of Wall Street (though he does mention witnessing the Wall Street crash first hand in his lecture), but instead extracts an essence of urbanity which is best seen in 'Blind Panorama of New York', where the pollution of the city is conveyed as birds covered in ash and its banalities are caterpillars in the mind which 'devour the philosopher'.
In September, describing the city in a letter to Melchor Fernandez Almagro, he said, “It’s immense, but it is made for man, the human proportion adjusts to things that from far away seem gigantic and disordered.”Another lure of New York was that from there Lorca could travel to Cuba, which he had dreamed of visiting since his childhood.
Whereas Lorca probably would not have gotten his parents to fund a trip to Cuba directly, he could travel to the island from New York, where he had the legitimate excuse of studying English at a prestigious American university.I believe that Lorca's observations and journal entries are a reflection of not only the mindset of one of the most well known cities in the world, applicable to the 1930s, but is also quite accurately a reflection of the state of the world today.
أكتر عمل أحبه للوركا صديق القمر والشجر والغجر وعريس ربة الشعر الذي لم يعد إنساناً ولا شاعراً ولا ورق
Porque no habia leido a Lorca antes??
Reality vs Dreams (false dreams aka untruths).Lorca wrote on New York as a "savage" place doomed by mechanization, money, science, the loss of nature, wildness, fluidity, and the denial of roots and primitivism.
More "out there." An excerpt from The King of Harlem demonstrates both the aforementioned themes and the surreal style of the collection:Look for the great central sun.Turn into a swarm of buzzing pineapple.The sun that slides through the forests,sure that a nymph will not be there.The sun that destroys numbers, and has never crossed a dream,the tattooed sun that descends the riverand bellows just ahead of the crocodiles.Within the passage, the sun (nature) destroys numbers (science) and "has never crossed a dream" (the sun is truth).
But, I persevered, opening the book every now and then, and finding the lines mostly incomprehensible blamed the translation and said, "Maybe later."The new Simon and White translation came out in 1988, and got a lot of praise, so, I filed it away in my mind, and finally bought it used last year.
(I found it at Vargo's Books, an eccectric and popular bookstore in Bozeman, Montana.) It sat on the shelf, until its time finally came.I'm here to report Poet in New York remains mostly incomprehensible, though the translation seems to flow much more easily than the Bellit.
Probablemente mi poema favorito de esta coleccion:CIUDAD SIN SUEÑO (NOCTURNO DEL BROOKLYN BRIDGE)No duerme nadie por el cielo.
Hay un muerto en el cementerio más lejano que se queja tres años porque tiene un paisaje seco en la rodilla; y el niño que enterraron esta mañana lloraba tanto que hubo necesidad de llamar a los perros para que callase.
No duerme nadie por el cielo.
Pero si alguien tiene por la noche exceso de musgo en las sienes, abrid los escotillones para que vea bajo la luna las copas falsas, el veneno y la calavera de los teatros.[image error]M.
لم أجد هنا نسخة الكتاب الذي بين يدي..النسخة الصادرة عن دار أزمنة ترجمة حسين مجيدعن دراسة لديريك هاريس..هنا لوركا عندما أتيحت له فرصة السفر لأمريكا غرض دخول الجامعة في نيويورك فكتب ديوانه الواضح من مسماه في حين قضائه تلك المدة مابين منتصف عام 1929 لأواخر عام 1930..
In my opinion, Lorca is attempting to use words in a descriptive way so as to capture setting, emotion and character, (many times the setting and character are New York, the city itself)much in the way an artist uses paint.The words themselves transcend their literal meanings.
(I don't read Spanish, but I can compare the versions and see which words are translated into English and I find this helpful and interesting.)Overall, I find this book to be an amazing emotional portrait of a city and its inhabitants by one of the most singular visionary Poets in history.
A favourite book, which I've had since my youth, when I was discovering a wider world.

متأكدة بأن لوركا يستحق ترجمة أفضل من هذه!ترجمة تفتقد للشعرية والسلاسة والنغمة المعروفة للوركا وكلماته المفضلةهنا أترككم مع قصيدة للوركا غناها الراحل مؤخرًا ليونارد كوهن. قصيدة Take this Walts الذي ترجمها أخينا "فالس صغير من فيينا"!!https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4hnN9...وإذا أتيحت لكم الفرصة قارنوا بين الترجمة الانجليزية للقصيدة والعربية!
La luz es sepultada por cadenas y ruidosen impúdico reto de ciencia sin raíces.Por los barrios hay gentes que vacilan insomnescomo recién salidas de un naufragio de sangre.:O
قرأت إصدار دار أزمنة ، دراسة ديريك هاريس وترجمة حسين عبدالزهرةالترجمة ممتازة، و شعر لوركا غني بالرموز.-/" لا تسلني. رأيت أن الأشياءحين تبحث عن طريقها لا تجد غير الفراغ"
Uno de los primeros libros de poemas que leo. La poesía nunca me ha atraído, pero una vez leí unos versos de Lorca y me gustaron, así que tenía pendiente leer algo de su obra. Cómo suponía, está bien. No consigo saber si es o no es objetivamente bueno porque, como digo, no sé de poesía, pero Lorca tiene algo emotivo que trasciende las normas y eso lo nota hasta un torpe como yo. Puede que a partir de ahora lea más poesía.
A genuinely amazing collection. I haven't been moved by poetry like this in a long time, but there were definitely some poems that stood out more than others. I thought this gave an amazing portrait of Lorca's life and his experience of New York as a city, and his use of language and imagery was astounding in its surrealism.The end of the book contains his letters to his family from Columbia and I had a fun time reading them. Nice to know he was asking his parents to give him money to live too.

عن أمريكا الشمالية عن سانتياغو ..
عن أمريكا الجنوبية عن الزنوج ..
عن الإنسانية النتنة لم يعتمد لوركا في ديوانه هذا على الأنغام والقوافي، وإنما كان يستهدف المعاني العميقة، وعند ترجمة شعره إلى العربية فقد بعضاً من غنائيته لكنه لم يفقد شيئاً من معانيه.
أسلوبه رائع للغاية وقدرته المميزة على اختيار مفرداته جعلت من ديوانه بيئة براقة قوامها كلمات أجادت في وصف عري الإنسانية وعهرها.
باختصار، أعاد لوركا في ديوانه هذا ثقتي بالشعر المترجم إلى العربية.
I dont often add poetry books to my list. I guess its because poetry books arent read like other types of books. Poems are almost isolated, and I come and go from these books freely, when I need them or want them, instead of being bound by their linear succession of page after page of story.However, Poet in New York, is very special to me. This is a collection that Ive read through like any other book and Ive read in isolated bits according to the weather and to love and to times of day.Its beau
I don´t often add poetry books to my list.
I guess it´s because poetry books aren´t read like other types of books.
Poems are almost isolated, and I come and go from these books freely, when I need them or want them, instead of being bound by their linear succession of page after page of story.However, Poet in New York, is very special to me.
This is a collection that I´ve read through like any other book and I´ve read in isolated bits according to the weather and to love and to times of day.It´s beautiful and powerful and I´ve needed it more than any other.
Toni cupi, di morte e solitudine, che nulla hanno a che fare con il Lorca vitale de Libro de Poemas. E' una New York grottesca, sordida e alienata. Le metafore e le sinestesie si intrecciano così vorticosamente da lasciare sempre meno spazio alla comprensione del lettore. Si sa, la poesia parla per archetipi e forse è proprio questo ciò che ci fa amarla: non doverla sottoporre al microscopio della ragione, eppure stavolta avrei preferito qualche verso meno criptico. Ode a Walt Whitman è commovente.
Llevaba mucho tiempo con ganas de cogerlo por banda. Al fin lo he hecho y no me arrepiento para nada. Lo único que tengo que decir es que a Lorca no hay que leerlo para dentro, hay que recitarlo, hay que vivirlo, hay que expresarlo con la voz en alto y disfrutar de cada palabra, de cada verso, de cada poema. Porque, en definitiva, eso hay que hacer con toda poesía.Una gran obra que he terminado casi sin darme cuenta, en la que he disfrutado mucho y en la que he dejado una parte de mí.
I love the passion in every syllable of Lorca's poetry, and his insane surrealist imagery -- which makes sense in the most surprising ways. I'm not a super Spanish-linguist but the translation seems to be a good balance of literal and poetic accuracy. The side-by-side translations make it possible to read it how it's supposed to be read and understand it at the same time.
I didn't realise this was not only a poetry collection, but a select lecture and letters added with it. It was interesting to get context for Lorca's poetry. I found this collection quite dark and isolating. However I was not okay with the Harlem poems. I know this collection is 'of its time' but I still had problems with it.
