https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11371.It_Can_t_Happen_Here
Worse, Windrip "in between tricks would coldly and almost contemptuously jab his crowds with figures and facts - figures and facts that were inescapable even when, as often happened, they were entirely wrong" which is of course pure "Drumpf on Twitter."Lewis' book is even more pessimistic than Roth's because America spins out into a mess of mass murders under the Gestopo-like Militia Men (M.M.) corps which are deployed nationwide and terrorise all sectors of the population preferably the educated, Jewish, and anyone even suspecting of whispering slander against the administration.
And I am afraid that fictious history might become true, 80 years after this book has been written.The satiric novel tells about an American presidential candidate who is very belligerent and bombastic.
I don’t know how I have been able to live without this expression for almost 76 years.Talk to you again when I read further on.In the meantime: GO AND START READING THIS BOOK.October 17, 2015I am now on page 258.
Don’t let worse things happen.Will keep you posted.HOPE YOU HAVE ALREADY STARTED READING THIS BOOK.
It Can’t Happen Here is Sinclair Lewis’ political satire and propagandized account of the rise of an American fascist.
Lewis was an astute and keen observer of political power and was a canary in the coal mine for a world that would soon know much grief.
Considering that Lewis published this in 1935, it is eerily uncanny the way his fictitious predictions about American despotism would four years later parallel the Nazi blitzkrieg.
Also noteworthy is Lewis’ ability to create a uniquely American dictator, not a swastika brandishing Teuton or an Italian variety autocrat, but one who rises to power quoting folksy barbs and appealing to the New World everyman.
I have always thought that if fascism ever came to America it would come clothed in red, white, and blue, with patriotic songs, and quotations from founding fathers.
It would ignore democratic ideals and replace them with a kind of Americanism that encourages love of country over love of people.
Make no mistake, American fascism is possible with just the right rhetoric and influence.Sinclair Lewis' book, It Can't Happen Here, portrays just such an America.
But if you think it can't happen here, and now, think again.
They won't call it "fascism" of course, but we already have Americans who think this way.
The story tells of the rise of the next President of the United Stated – Berzelius ‘Buzz’ Windrip, mostly through the eyes of small town journalist, Doremus Jessup (there are some very unusual names in this novel!), his family and local community.
Obviously, this novel was written during the time of rising fascism in Europe and the author has cleverly taken those events and the complacency of people to believe that dictators cannot happen ‘here,’ wherever ‘here’ is.
I’ll give you three guesses as to why this book showed up on my TBR list, and two don’t count.
Originally published way back in 1935, Sinclair Lewis’s novel seemed to transcend time and is a constant reminder what can happen if we are too complacent or too timid to make our voice heard.
I don’t think one must be hit over the head with a brick to see the parallels of this book and our current political atmosphere in the US, which is why there has been such a renewed interest in it recently.
“The conspicuous fault of the Jeffersonian Party, like the personal fault of Senator Trowbridge, was that it represented integrity and reason, in a year when the electorate hungered for frisky emotions, for the peppery sensations associated, usually, not with monetary systems and taxation rates but with baptism by immersion in the creek, straight whisky, angelic orchestras heard soaring down from the full moon, fear of death when an automobile teeters above a canyon, thirst in a desert and quenching it with spring water—all the primitive sensations which they thought they found in the screaming of Buzz Windrip."--LewisI only just now finished listening to over 14 hours of this book, which I read for the first time, and found amazing--initially almost cartoonishly funny, and slowly, gradually scary, and then at times turning to horrific.
It looks like a lot of people are reading anti-fascist books now, which is good.
This extraordinary novel from 1935 predicts with uncanny accuracy the American political situation of 2016, and has authentic and frightening warnings. Sinclair Lewis satirizes with biting humor the potential for America to fall to populist demagogues with nothing to say but what people want to hear, and of the terrible consequences of the people's naïvete. A must read.
It is.This book is the Nostradamus of our political past, present and potential future.
Prior to the momentous astounding absolutely fucking unbelievable election of 11/9/2016, interest in this book was hauling in pedestrian numbers, being shelved as to-be-read around 8 to 12 times a day on average.
Because It Can't Happen Here, a book written in 1935, parallels almost precisely what is happening right now.
You know all about it already, so why read the book, right?
So, open them up and read this book...before it gets burned.
And the answer he provides in this book is YES, IT CAN!Set in Vermont beginning in the year 1936, the main character is Doremus Jessup, born in 1876, who is the owner/publisher of the local newspaper, The Informer.
Jessup is allowed to go free on the condition that he allows his newspaper to be taken over by the Corpos, as they are known, and works with their representative to publish a government-friendly paper.
Jessup puts up with this humiliation for awhile but then quits and joins a new underground movement which helps dissidents escape to Canada, and he secretly publishes a protest newspaper called Vermont Vigilance with like-minded friends--which could land him in a concentration camp or worse, if caught.
UPDATE: Dorothy Thompson, Sinclair Lewis's wife at the time, wrote an article  Who Goes Nazi?, where she guesses which of her fellow Americans at a party would become Nazis if given the opportunity. Well worth a read and a parlour game well worth reviving.To give you the flavour, looks like Trump was at the party: I think young D over there is the only born Nazi in the room. Young D is the spoiled only son of a doting mother. He has never been crossed in his life. He spends his time at the game
There is no better time to read this book than right now, except maybe for this time next year.The story in Sinclair Lewis’ “It Couldn’t Happen Here” is a familiar one: fascism comes to America through the ballot box and the path first trod by the Nazis is faithfully followed.These days we have learnt the lessons of history and look with suspicion at grandstanding debates and at political rallies filled with bright lights, loud music and low-level violence.
(which was turned into a great movie with Daniel Day-Lewis), and ran for governor of California in 1934, while Sinclair Lewis wrote this book, as well as, no doubt, many other novels that I'm probably not ever going to read.
Point being that reviewers in general seem to have agreed that you read this book not for stylistic excellence but for its ideas; and people probably tend to read it more often at certain historical moments than others.
One reason supporters of different political parties in Lewis's novel argue over minutiae instead of banding together to fight Windrip is that they lack the experience of fascism and treat it with more fairness and less caution than it warrants.
Sinclair Lewis's polemic novel, 1935's IT CAN'T HAPPEN HERE, foresaw a dystopian 1936 when a demagogic New England politician, Berzelius ("Buzz") Windrip, seized control of the United States of America and ineluctably imposed a fascist-style dictatorship on the nation.
To compose this 350-page playout on the theme of "Yes, it CAN happen here, and here's one way it could," Lewis put away the swift, raucous satirical style of his best-known and most commercially successful novels of the 1920s that had served him so well in BABBITT, ELMER GANTRY, ARROWSMITH and DODSWORTH -- in favor of a more traditional, yet as it turned out sometimes ponderous, character exposition and development.
Yesterday I was having a coffee with a friend. I told him how the recent lynchings in India, the violence against authors and books, and the ghettoisation of Muslims closely parallel 1930's Nazi Germany.He dismissed my concerns with an airy statement: "It can't happen here."Well, apparently...
As things continue to get worse, as institutions designed to safeguard American democracy are shut down one by one, well, you get the drift.The novel reveals how it can happen here, but much more interesting to me was watching one character in particular, Shad Ledue, Jessup's very unhappy former handyman, "the kind of vindictive peasant who sets fire to barns." Ledue is part of the working-class poor who feels he's not been given proper respect by his employer, so galvanized by Windrip's rhetoric, he throws in his lot with Windrip and the single political party the Corpos, and starts moving up the ladder of power with revenge against Jessup his number one priority.
Not many novels can do that, quite frankly.Someone said to me some time before the election that if things went a certain way, reading this book would be "moot," to which I say pish-posh, you're wrong.

Parts of the book may seem tedious to today's reader, because his fictional political characters are almost all surrogates of then real politicians, the majority of whom we are no longer familiar with.
The main characters are almost caricatures, but in fact when you look at our last election, the candidates do seem like caricatures, too.
And yet, if you look at the historical outcome of facistic regimes, then you have to admit, he actually foresaw a lot that was to come.Lewis does a good job of explaining what facism is and how it can come from the left or the right.
Describes our times and predicts a terrifying possibility...mix it with 1984 and it is right on target!

More so than anything else, they fear the "ignorance" of the working class, bitter from being stepped on for so long they would quickly embrace anyone promising them any sort of redistribution.
No matter how you cut it, this book is pretty classist.
You do read the book and wonder what it would be like if it hadn't been FDR and instead, in his place, someone who embraced fascism as a means to cure the Great Depression.
In many ways, those passages were actually pretty frightening, to be honest.I really recommend this book.
The Rise of an American Dictatorship7 April 2012 I discovered this book after reading a collection of interviews by Howard Zinn where he described it as a warning about how the United States could become a fascist dictatorship. Zinn's argument was that the US is already heading down that road, though it has not quite reached that point at the time of the interviews. When comparing the United States as outlined in this book and what we perceive today I would also suggest that we have not yet arri
When comparing the United States as outlined in this book and what we perceive today I would also suggest that we have not yet arrived at that point and would also suggest that we may still have some time to go as well.
Further, in comparing the United States with Rome, we uncannily find ourselves looking back to Germany of the 1930s, where the totalitarian government (as is the case in this book) rose to power on the backs of the people.
4.5 stars
This novel,with We,1984,Kallocain and Farenheith 451 set up the great totalitarian distopic novels.I
Surely a sign of a five star worthy read.##################### I mentioned this while I was reading it but I’ll say it again: this book scared me.
This novel covers the consequences of having such a President in America, for everyday working citizens, the previously untouchable citizens in power and the people who are newly in power and are as such “untouchable”.
No-one.This is probably not the kind of book that I would have been interested in reading before the current political situation in America happened.
"Για πολλούς ανθρώπους η μόνη τους επανάσταση εξαντλείται στην αναμονή." "Σ' το λέω, κανείς δεν έχει τόσους φίλους όσους ο επαναστάτης. Ούτε και τόσους εχθρούς!"
Take for example early Modernist Sinclair Lewis, who before opening CCLaP I was barely familiar with at all, but am rapidly growing to admire more and more, the more I learn about him; and although my official selection of his for the CCLaP 100 is the masterpiece Babbitt (which I'll be reading later this year), while researching him I also came across a 1935 book of his called It Can't Happen Here that I found simply impossible to pass up.The book is essentially a speculative novel, taking the real events and popular figures of the 1930s to show just how easy it would've been for a fascist takeover of the United States to happen back then, right in the same period where the same thing had already happened in Germany, Italy, Japan, Spain, Scandinavia, and other places; and although the book has been largely forgotten by now, it actually served as a comeback vehicle of sorts for Lewis at the time of its publication, after having a whole string of hits during the Roaring Twenties but rapidly falling out of favor with the onset of the Great Depression.
It Can't Happen Here (1935) is a prescient commentary on American society in the mid-1930s by Sinclair Lewis (1885-1951), a Noble Prize for Literature laureate (1930). It Can't Happen Here is the story of a fictional fascist government's rise in mid-1930s USA, an insecure society deep in socio-economic turmoil. This thoughtful novel is very rich and requires the reader to be attentive. I highly recommend it, especially for somewhat politically-minded readers. If you are just looking for a good r
Suffice it to say that in the early 1950s, the rise to prominence of Senator George McCarthy -- and what came to be known as the McCarthy Era with its attendant Communist witch hunts -- exhibited the maladies that Sinclair Lewis had presaged twenty years earlier regarding the possibility of fascist government in the USA.It Can't Happen Here ​occurs mainly in rural Vermont, where we meet the protagonist, Doremus Jessup, the sixty-some, highly principled but innocuous editor-owner of the local Fort Beulah, Vermont newspaper.
Lewis understood the currents reverberating through America and constructed a very plausible scenario for the rise of fascist government in the United States.
Sempre me inquietou a pouca atenção dada, actualmente,e por aqui,a Sinclair Lewis.
E esta edição, que foi quase coincidente com uma comum da e primatur ( aperceberam se a tempo,e recuaram) não deixa de existir apenas por um evidente oportunismo editorial.Colar este romance da década de 1930 à presidencia de Donald Trump, exige um pequeno esforço e uma moderada dose de imaginação.
Que seja.
Houvesse expediente oportunista para editar mais Bons livros,que eu não me importava muito..Sinclair Lewis é um escritor sólido.
Um exercício distópico escrito no período entre guerras,para demonstrar o contrário do que afirma á partida.Muito bom.
Αποφασισμένος για τη στάση που θα κρατήσει στις επικείμενες εκλογές, βρίσκεται στο επίκεντρο των εξελίξεων και αναλύει τα καθέκαστα, περνώντας από το αρχικό στάδιο της εσωτερικής πάλης και στη συνέχεια αναζητώντας άλλοτε τη συγκατάβαση και άλλοτε την διαφορετική προσέγγιση των ανθρώπων του περιβάλλοντός του.
Συνεπαρμένος από τον χειμαρρώδη λόγο και παρασυρόμενος από τη δυναμική που του ασκεί η μαζική ψυχολογία του κοινού επανέρχεται σχεδόν άρρωστος και τρομαγμένος στην πραγματικότητα μαγεμένος ωστόσο από την εμπειρία.Όταν τελικά η εξουσία περνάει στα χέρια του Μπαζ Γουίντριπ τα ακραία γεγονότα υποδαυλίζουν την απόφαση Ντορέμους Τζέσαπ να δραστηριοποιηθεί στην αντίσταση και να ανακαλύψει βήμα-βήμα τις πραγματικές του προσωπικές αξίες.
Written and set in the 1930s, this was brilliant satire, terrifying in its accuracy.
A dictator is elected by gullible people based on promises of upholding good old American values, liberty, strength, protecting US interests and giving everyone (excluding negroes of course) $5000.
The government sets up work camps and jails newspaper reporters and anyone else deemed a threat to the regime.
There is a plot to start a war with Mexico to distract the masses and provide medals for the soldiers supporting the regime.
Unfortunately, getting rid of a dictator is not that easy.
