https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/225706.E_T_the_Extra_Terrestrial_in_His_Adventure_on_Earth
I think everyone already knows this story, anyone who grew up in the Eighties onward knows the film about the friendship between a boy and an alien, and it's still great in a book format as well. :)
Svi oni osjećaji koje je pružio film, ovdje se nisu uspjeli iskazati. :(No, svejedno, E.T. je i dalje predivna priča o posebnom prijateljstvu, vjernosti i ljubavi koju preporučam svima! (ovaj put u filmskom izdanju!)
Really enjoyed this! Didn't think I would as much because I've seen the film a million times so the story is ingrained but this book's interpretation of the story makes it different in certain ways. The way it was written was amusing, maybe it's just my sense of humour but descriptions of E.T. rolling along the floor like a pumpkin, speaking to the vegetables, lusting after Elliott's mother, taking pride in his big belly, there's way too many to list. Certainly recommended for fans of the movie!
Read this book to kids at night for bed time story and they liked it that much they want me to read it again next week
There is so many problems with this book, where to start?emotional abuse, weird subplot with the mother/E.T., sexism, things worded in a way towards E.T. that didn't quite sit right with me, whatever else I may have mentioned during reading..It wasn't *all* bad. I did enjoy *most* of E.T.'s thoughts and the funny nonsense in the book. And from what I heard this book is very different than the movie, so i'm a still watch that and see how it compares :)More of a review on my Book blog Here
b) the novelization is written by William Kotzwinkle.
i mean, i've never read anything he has written, but his dust jacket photo is GREAT.
so i decided to read it & get another artist's take on the whole affair, then watch the movie & see which one i like better.
i'm only like 40 pages in & i am already betting on Kotzwinkle...UPDATE: okay, i'm done & wow, i am really guessing that there is no way Spielberg's flick is as good as this little book.
i just generally assume that novelizations of kids movies (or of comics, for that matter) are hacky cash grabs.
What did I just read with mine own eyes?
Unlike the Poltergeist novelization, this one certainly added things to the movie.
The first few chapters from ET's POV were so endearing.
Just the little ancient botanist, talking to vegetables.
I did not expect the dog to have a POV as well.
I did not expect the principal and biology teacher at Elliott's school to start taking drugs.The moms POV was so bizarre, I can't even tell if it was sexist or not.I have to watch the movie again, with this new information.
Plot-4 StarsCharacters-3.5 StarsSetting-3 StarsE.T. Your a wizard!
Ok you would be in some other books.
10 million years old, can heat up his finger to very high temperatures, make people fly with a symbol drawn in air, and talk to plants.
Yep a wizard.
Couple parts that kinda threw me off was the Mom. While the kids were playing D n D she would make a comment in her mind after every sentence they made.
And then E.T. having a crush on her.
What was the thinking behind that?
You are that old and meet the first woman and fall for her?
Although it's incredibly nerdy, this book has to be my all time favorite. The book has so much depth and intimacy, what a classic, treasure of a book. It makes my heart warm and fuzzy!
Really??? All these raving reviews, yet to me it sucked. Give me the movie, (which inspired the book by the way) any day.
اولین کتاب تخیلی بود که خوندم و فکر کنم شانس اوردم که کتاب به این قوی به تورم خورد و در حدی قشنگ و قوی توصیف کردع که هر لحظه احساس میکردم همه ی کلمه ها و جمله ها روح دارن و ممکنِ همین الان یه آدم فضایی از گنجه ی اتاق یا زیر تخت یا پشت پنجرع ببینم :))))))))))))
The story of a strange creature lost on earth, though I read the book years later I think this may have been one of the first movies I saw as a child...
Once upon a time, there was a twelve year old girl, and she went to see a movie, about a ten year old boy and his discovery and adventures with a kindly, big-hearted extra terrestrial that he nicknamed ET.
Cue: the little alien's almost-death scene; waterfalls of tears!
I had never cried so much at a movie before!
I loved the movie and the book!What people may not know though is co-author Melissa Mathison, who also wrote the screenplay, but, more famously, she was HARRISON FORD's WIFE at that time!!!
That's the best catch in the galaxy, girl!!!
Un montón de libros me dieron esa sensación, pero este no fue uno de ellos.Pero lo que sí vi buenísimo fue el desarrollo y el avance del pensamiento de E.T., aprendiendo a pensar como un humano, encerrándose con el Habla-Escribe y aprendiendo a hablar y a entender el idioma gracias a Gertie, su relación con Elliott (y cómo va creciendo mediante la conexión telepática, hasta el punto de enfermarse ambos con la misma gravedad), su admiración de alguna manera hacia Mary y, cómo no, su amor por los M&M.
Se nota el cariño que le tiene a E.T y, aún más, lo mucho que le importa Elliott.En conclusión, no es un mal libro pero tampoco es excelente.
-Penguin Readers, Level2-Time; 10/16=20min, 10/17=56min, 10/18=12min-7words summary; spaceship, extra-terrestrial, hide, closet, scientists, bike, return -Discussion questions1.If extra-terrestrial appeared in front of you, what would you do?
A. In my case, I'd escape from ET, because I'd be afraid of any kinds of alien...
Even if ET isn't an afraid alien, I'd not help like Elliott.
He is so kind!
And, have you ever ridden on an attraction of E.T. In USJ?A.
(I've heard the name.) But, I've ridden on the attraction of E.T.!!I was really moved by Elliott, Michael, and E.T. Especially, Elliott was so brave though he was only 5 years old!!!
C'est un livre plein de décor, ce qui permet au lecteur de s'évader dans son imagination. Quand j'ai vu l'adaptation cinématographique de ce livre, j'ai retrouvé certains endroits tel que je les avais imaginés, c'était vraiment fantastique.
Eliott, un ragazzino californiano di dieci anni, mentre gioca nel giardino di casa si imbatte in un piccolo extraterrestre, rimasto abbandonato da un'astronave durante una spedizione sulla terra. Lo strano personaggio verrà chiamato E.T. e susciterà le fantasie dei ragazzi.
Um dos contos que acompanhou a minha infância, terá sempre um lugar especial em mim.
This book is just as heartwrenching as the movie! I know it's an adaptation of themovie, not the other way around, but I always get more out of the written word than I do images on a screen.
All the wonderful things that make the movie so beautiful were completely destroyed in this book.
Every thought she has is negative - especially about her children - and her character in this book is not at all how I see her in the movie.
I would've much preferred to read a book told entirely from Elliott's perspective.
I felt like giving him the ability to talk was a cheap way out of writing a better story - if E.T. can jabber on about whatever he wants, we don't have to waste time building a relationship between the characters and having them learn from one another.
While novelizations often include scenes and even subplots that end up cut from the final film due to the author writing from the screenplay rather than the final cut, this one seemed to be made up almost whole cloth from the author's imagination.
I have never liked her in the movie, but she's not as awful as portrayed here: she's such a middle-aged divorcee stereotype it's offensive (even for the time this book was written!).
Also, the novelization portrays E.T. as an old being, but I have always thought of him as a young character.
She closed her eyes and tried to imagine him.But she kept getting the image of someone no bigger than an umbrella stand, waddling toward her with a candy bar.This is really one of the best movie novelizations I've ever read.
Just when they’re about to get me and they’re really mad, I throw down my portable hole .
. .”Portable hole?Mary leaned off the edge of the bed to hear some more about that one.
It sounded faintly obscene.“I climb in and pull the lid closed.
To climb into about four thirty every day.
Since I read the accompanying novel for the first Star Wars movie back in the days, and when I was in my early teens, I figured I might take a shot at this novelization of the E.T. movie.
Her inner monologue clearly added to a story which I'm afraid might otherwise have been just a bit too lean for my taste.A comment on the Norwegian translation:Christmas crackers betyr ikke «visdomsord i pepperkaker», men knallbongbonger.
Nesten unnskyldelig ettersom ordet ikke er å finne i noen av de engelsk-norsk ordbøkene jeg har hjemme, men dog…
This book was awesome. It was so well written I could've read it in one go (if I would've had the time). Everyone knows the movie and it is very close to the book but it is still worth to read. So if you can get your hands on it, get it.
Classic book is better then movie just because you can know what he is thinking
I expected it to be... different. It was very interesting and I really liked E. T.'s POV but... to be honest, this book was sexist in a way which I didn't expect to be at all.
“E.T. phone home.”
Delightful, like the movie. Goes more into detail about about creating the device to "phone home" and the connection between E. T. and Elliot.
Great book, great movie!
It was so much fun reading this with my girly.
