https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/298070.The_Light_at_Tern_Rock
While reading a Newbery Award winner or Honor book, there is always a tendency to judge it and decide if it is worthy of the award.
This is a quick read and a sweet Christmas story, but I couldn't see why it would win a Newbery honor until towards the end: The lamp chamber always gave Ronnie a strange feeling.
The sea piling up to the horizon, the expanse of sky, the bold swooping and circling of the gulls lifted you somehow.
The whole chamber was diffused with color, a dull green and gold from the glow still lingering in the western sky.
Now while the general plot line of The Light at Tern Rock is pretty well predictable right from the onset of the story so to speak, in so far that we as readers do realise (and even very well know for a fact) that Byron Flagg shall indeed renege on his promise and will thus not arrive back at Tern Rock on December 15th in order to again take over the lighthouse duties from Aunt Martha and Ronnie (there is just something about how he is described by Julia L.
My mother took care of Mrs. Sauer before her death and as a gift she gave her the three books she wrote, autographed. After my mother moved she passed these books onto me because she knew I enjoyed reading them growing up. It was a treat to re-read them now as an adult.
This was a nice short read about a boy and his aunt who stay at a lighthouse.
We enjoyed the descriptions of the sea, sounds and feelings of being in and responsible for a lighthouse.
We would have liked this to be a lot longer, we wanted more details of day to day lighthouse life, we thought this was a great idea for a story that could have been taken much further.
We really didn't like the illustrations.
This book was very different in style and content to Fog Magic, although it does have the common theme of the sea it didn't have the same magic for us that Fog Magic had.
They really don't write them this well anymore.
If you want your children (especially if you're buying for boys!) or grandchildren (and your adult children) to learn to be kind, considerate, thoughtful, loving, tolerant, empathetic, forgiving, obedient, respectful, truthful, and see the true meaning of Christmas illustrated - as opposed to Hollywood's version of it - this is your book.
Adults and teens will enjoy it, and the superb illustrations by Georges Schreiber.
It's a shame they're not writing books like this anymore - or is it that writers like Sauer cannot get published?
I’m glad that I did.The story concerns Ronnie and his aunt, who have been convinced by the regular keeper of Tern Lighthouse to tend it for several weeks.
The keeper promises to return several days early so that Ronnie and his aunt can spend Christmas at home.
This book took only about a half an hour to read, but it made a strong impression on me.I will tell readers that the novel was written several decades ago and so features strong Christian imagery and allusion to the Christmas story and meaning.
But it’s a phenomenally well-written little piece and, certainly for myself, a new favorite Christmas story.
Great, old-fashioned book with strong values.
This would be a great read-aloud for grades 1-3, assuming that Christian content is appropriate for your audience.They don't make them like this anymore- a large format, illustrated book made up of five short chapters.
It's a bit like a Holling Clancy Holling format, except the chapters are more accessible.The main character works a lighthouse with his aunt.
Santa Claus is never mentioned.I enjoyed Georges Schrieber's illustrations this time even more than in the similarly-formatted Pancakes-Paris.
He combined expressive line work and detailed backgrounds to help tell the story and convey the characters' internal thoughts.Recommended for young Christians.
I don't think this book really has an age group because any reader could benefit from reading this book.
I also like how there are many morals that shine through the pages, such as: understanding, compassion, loving, caring, and kindness.
These aspects of the book are great and I think they are well written throughout the book and are also easy to understand.
Like I mentioned previously, I think every reader who has the chance to read this book can learn something of great value!
I highly recommend taking your time to really read this great book!!
I thought the descriptions of the sights and sounds on the lighthouse (especially toward the end), were especially magical. But I don't really care for the plot devices that brought them to that point. I guess my sense of justice is still a lot like Ronnie's.
It was like a Hallmark Christmas movie sans the romance (unless you count the romance of the sea). Short, sweet, and filled with the Christmas spirit.
Really good for kids
The keeper promises he will return by December 15, but when this date comes and goes, and more and more days pass, Ronnie realizes he will miss the Christmas festivities with his schoolmates and be stranded on the rock for the holiday instead.I appreciate this book for its economy of language, its carefully presented moral, its unapologetic religious viewpoint, and its unexpectedly emotional ending.
The story might seem slow to some kids, even with the low word count, but it would work nicely as a family read-aloud on Christmas Eve, or a component to a CCD or Sunday school lesson.
Newbery Honor from 1951. good, solid book. boy and aunt go out to the lighthouse she had worked at to relieve the current lighthouse keeper. Promises to be back by dec.15, 18 at the latest so boy can be back to sing in the school Christmas play and hang out w/friends on Christmas. light house keeper breaks his word boy learns lesson that adults are liars. but his aunt still loves him. think of Llama, Llama, Mad at Mamma on a light house w/humans instead of a shoparama w/critters.
The Light at Turn Rock is about a young boy and his grandmother who take over a light house for the original keeper at Christmas. A little slow for my 6 and 7 year old..but in the end provided a valuable Christmas lesson.
Quick, emotional, and sensory. I can almost feel the rumble of the crashing waves. Really satisfying to an introvert like me who has always dreamed of living in a light house. It's really, really short. (62 pages)
Short, nice, interesting. I love the strong woman character. I love the ending.
This is an excellent book for the Christmas season. It is about a boy and his aunt who take care of a lighthouse during December. The story is a little predictable, but of course will give you the warm Christmas fuzzies anyway.Even though it's a chapter book with a fairly difficult vocabulary (heliotrope, aghast, doldrums, etc.), it is quite short. I read it aloud to my son in less than a day.
I read the book called The Light at Tern Rock written by Julia L.
I think the author wrote this book is because she wanted to tell people that patient is very important to people.
There once was a traffic jam, and I waited one and a half hours to get through.
In the story the boy wasn’t that patient when he was spending his time in the lighthouse.
After I read the book, I learned that sometimes you understand what people really means, maybe they did not mean to hurt they are just joking around.
Anyway, I think this is a nice and understandable book.
This book is pretty educational for parents to teach their child on how not to assume the worse of a situation or person until they know for a fact.
The boy was very upset that he couldn't be home before christmas and assumed the worse of of this man as a liar.
The boy finally understood why this man did it so he forgave him and spend his Christmas day with his aunt in a very good mood.Overall, this book is good for teaching a child about the purpose of this story and how it applies to real life.
The Light at Tern Rock by Julia L Sauer, 1951 Newbery Honor Book.
I was cataloging a classroom library when I came across this book.
I'm sure that many people - some of you included - would consider the story to be an exemplar of the Xmas spirit at its best.
The idea that being hoodwinked out of spending Xmas at home with friends and family by a conniving, selfish old man is somehow OK because he left treats for you isn't remotely touching to me.
The Light of Tern Rock is a fiction book for children 3rd grade and above.
The book received the John Newberry Medal in 1973.
The story unfolds as a boy and his aunt decide to go to the lighthouse to cover for a friend of the family while he takes time off to visit his family.
The boy realizes that tending to the lighthouse requires more work than he assumed.
The boy learns that you can have Christmas no matter where you are.
This book can be used to discuss how to deal with situations when they do not go the way they have planned.
The Light at Turn Rock is about a young boy and his grandmother who take over a light house for the original keeper.
The keeper is visiting his relatives while the young boy realizes the hard work and commitment going into the light house.
The boy becomes angry when the keeper does not come back for Christmas.
In the end the boy realizes that Christmas can be experienced anywhere.
This book is specific to lighthouses and children who might live by them.
Many children that do not live by a lighthouse may not know the terminology used in this book.
My home teachers gave this early-reader book to us for a gift last night.
They said it was one of their favorite books to reread with their family every year and I can see how it is a great family Christmas tradition.
(view spoiler)[The lightkeeper doesn't return in time and Ronnie and his aunt must come to terms with spending Christmas on the rock without everything they planned for the holiday.
(hide spoiler)] I love the message of Christmas, and this will likely hold a special place in our hearts not just because of the message but because it's from our favorite home teachers ever.
This book was originally published in 1951 and was titled, "The Light at Christmas".
For some reason, when the book was re-published, it was renamed.
If reading with children, be sure to finish it on Christmas Eve.It is rather interesting to realize that most children won't know what a lighthouse is or does, unless they live near or have traveled to a coastal city or town.
So, before reading this story, it would be a good idea to explain why lighthouses were used and who maintained them.I thought the illustrations were fine in that they moved the story along and gave a face to the characters in the story.I liked this story and would recommend it.
This book is part of our Core A curriculum through Sonlight.
It is a good look at forgiveness and seeing the best in situations, especially ones that are inconvenient and we were not expecting.
I really enjoyed the relationship between Ronnie and Aunt Marthy.
It was also good to see how important hard work is and how what we do can help or hurt others.
As a whole I enjoyed this book.
I can't say I loved it, but I'm not dreading reading it to my next group who do Core A in a couple of years.
This book is about an aunt and her nephew who are asked to to take care of a lighthouse near the Xmas holidays. The lighthouse attendant (who is an older man) promises to be back before Xmas. The boy in the story is devestated as well as mad when the man does not return and the boy and aunt are left at the lighthouse. The aunt makes it a special Xmas and the boy learns the real meaning of Xmas. A touching story however it was written several decades ago so some of the language is a bit dated.
Both my 3 yr old and 10 yr old likes this story.
I liked it because it brings home the idea of how deception and lies can hurt others, but we can still learn to forgive despite the pain caused.
I like the old classic ideas and morals.
It does take some explaining for our modern day children - as to how things really were - but it is a good lesson in life history and good ole fashioned values.Update review: Read it again to my youngest and he LOVES the book.
It is a sweet story - perfect for Christmas time!
On New Years Eve I finished a book and wanted a short read before I headed back to Eugene. I picked this one off the shelf and was happy to find it is a Newbery Honor book and a Christmas book! Oh, how I was disappointed after reading it. Very easy read but a pathetic attempt at a Christmas story. Even more pathetic was the author's attempt in the last couple of pages to relate the true meaning of Christmas to the story.
This very short Newbery award winner encourages the reader to step into Ronnie's shoes as he begins to experience the disappointment of not celebrating Christmas at home but instead stuck at Tern Rock where he and his aunt are taking care of the light house.The author does a good job of teaching the idea of patience and concern for others.
a short chapter book about a boy and his aunt that take care of a lighthouse while the keeper takes a vacation. though they are promised they will be home for Christmas, the keeper fails to return in time and they learn he even planned to be away over Christmas. This book has a sweet Christmas message and would be a good one to reread as part of our Advent traditions.
