https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/138664.The_Cat_s_Eye
Thorndyke is in prime form in this entry in the series. The main reason I didn't rate this higher was the fact that I managed to figure out most (though not all) of the solution before the big reveal.
A most mysterious mystery. Dr. Thorndyke claims you have all the facts he does, and it is true that you have all the information about things he sees and hears during his investigation. What the reader lacks, however, is his amazing store of knowledge, such as what could cause hair to turn a strange shade of blue, or when it is valuable to use the Latin Vulgate version of the scriptures to decipher a clue. Still, a lot of fun.
Originally written in 1923 it is Thorndyke at his best. Narrated by Robin Anstey KC, who is acting as Thorndyke's counsel as Jervis is away in America. It is well crafted using the stricter form of langue of the times. There is murder, love, and a form of code to be deciphered to prove an inheritance. There is also Polten in the background with his gadgets and experiments as well as being the indefatigable man servant. A good read.
Thorndyke and Anstey are definitely a down-market version of Holmes and Watson, but still, while this can't touch Conan Doyle's best work, it is better than some of those stories.
Thorndyke is a little too cute about keeping his deductions to himself, Anstey is a little too clueless, so the reader is sometimes annoyed by being too far ahead of the narrator.
And another Thorndyke is next in this anthology I'm reading, so I'll get to see whether Freeman can build on his positives and leave out his negatives in future works pretty soon.
Another Thorndyke novel and well done again. He does give you most of the clues but it's difficult to work it out and I tend not to bother too much I must admit as I know he'll reveal all at the end! This one hinged on knowing French assay marks - not something I know anything about! Still a good mystery which is what you want.
I rather liked this addition to Dr Thorndyke's casebook.

Interesting two-face problem, although the identity of the criminals is obvious for the reader (it isn't for the narrator), and the novel includes a love story that becomes as important as the mystery plot. Some of the actions of the main characters are a little stupid, as when the girl falls in the trap the criminals have prepared for her. Also, Thorndyke's behavior near the end is reckless. He says he was all the time in control, but I don't agree. I won't say more, because this review would become a spoiler.
Once again a pair of thoroughly evil colonials are the bad guys. This must have played well in early 20th c England. Well, they do get their comeuppance, and not in a good way. In what seems to be a series veering into romantic suspense and away from the mystery of the thing, another one of the regulars is married off. Far worse, the prose, once sleek and enticing has become rotund, indeed flabby.
Fairly typical Thorndyke story and thoroughly enjoyable as usual. The text is extremely dated but I don't mind this at all. R.A.F. must have had the most fertile imagination to be able to put these tales together. He plays fair with the reader by giving plenty of clues. I think that the fact that Thorndyke is both a lawyer and a doctor makes him a really interesting character. Good stuff.
This dragged a little in places - I do think Thorndyke is better suited to the short story, as was Holmes - but it's very readable, and supplied me with the fascinating derivation of the word 'cobalt'. You learn something every day!
