https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/829616.Lateral_Thinking
أنت و أنا نضع لمساتنا على حياتنا من خلال أفكارنا الجديدة ، ماء الأمر في هذا الكتاب هو أن تبقى منفتح على كل إحتمالية منخفضة ( التفكير الجانبي ) في حلك لمشكلاتك وقضاياك عوضًا عن اللجوء للإحتمالية العليا ( التفكير العمودي ) ، قضيتك وقضيتي بعد الإنتهاء من قراءة الكتاب ستكون : منح كل فكرة جديدة ستخطر على بالك الأهلية لتنافس في سوق الأفكار الراكدة المعدومة المرونة التي نعايشه ونتوارثه...
حينما كنتُ أبحثُ عن ترجماتِ "الغصن الذهبي" قادني البحثُ إلى ترجمةِ نايف الخوص، ومن نايف الخوص وصلتُ إلى ترجمتِه لكتاب إدوارد ديبونو "التفكير الجانبي" فعالَم الكتبِ عالمٌ غريبٌ يجر بعضُه بعضا فكل كتابٍ يجر أخاه، فهي شبكةٌ كشبكةِ العنكبوتِ.التفكيرُ الجانبي يعنى بطريقةِ تفكيرٍ مختلفةٍ للأمورِ فهي عكسُ ونقيضُ التفكيرِ العمودي الذي يفكرُ في الأمرِ بطريقةٍ منطقية،ٍ وفي النهايةِ يسعى إلى أنتاجِ أفكارٍ سمتها أنها جديدةٌ وبسيطةٌ وفعالةٌ ويضربُ على ذلك ديبونو أمثلةً كثيرةً تولدتْ بفعلِ هذا التفكيرِ الجانبي.
I don't remember it exactly, but the basic premise is that logic can dig a very deep hole--but you won't strike water until you use lateral thinking to decide where to PUT the hole.It reminds me of my experiences with school systems that encourage rote learning.
When I first went to such a school, I was extremely impressed by how quickly and thoroughly most of the students were able to memorize things.
Further questioning revealed that they had memorized the formulae, and could apply them without difficulty--but they couldn't understand what the formulae MEANT, or how they were arrived at, or could be changed.This book is simply a starter for people who want to LEARN rather than memorize.
The remaining 10% actually describes ways to use lateral thinking, but the dullest manner imaginable.
I know improving your lateral thinking skills requires more effort than solving a few puzzles, but this book fails to engage or inspire you on this quest.
I would have given it 1 star, but as I only read half way, I gave it the benefit of the doubt that it would improve.
A shame, because I really would like to improve my lateral thinking skills, but this is not the book for me.
نحتاج كثيراً إلى إيجاد الحلول الأخرى غير المتاحة وغير السائدة، لا لكي نصل فقط إلى مرحلة التخلص من مشاكلنا، بل فوق ذلك لكي نتخلص منها بكثير من الإبداعهذا الكتاب يتيح لك الوصول إلى تلك المرحلةكتاب جاء في وقته المناسب
It's something you need to work on everyday, even for 5 minutes a day (add that to the list of things you should be doing everyday even for five minutes, stretching, meditating, napping, etc).
having these blind spots that come from your suboptimal solution work.Notes to future eric: difference between vertical (logical) and lateral thinking like difference between depth first and breadth first search?
that said, sometimes you do need to shake things up, pop yourself out of a dead-end, and that's where lateral thinking comes in useful.
Use vertical thinking later to sift through the crap.
Interesting book, offering some processes to generate ideas and solve problems.To me, the main point of the book is to see problems and solutions as patterns, so after you recognize a pattern you can break/rearrange to form new patterns (or new solutions).The author argues that ideas should not be discarded, no matter how ridiculous they seem. Even the most outrageous ideas can provide insights about a problem. It's not important to be right all along the problem solving process, it's only important to be right at the end.
Everyone is born creative. Creativity can't be learned, but it involves unlearning some of the approaches we learned as part of education.This book explains the process which helps in improving creativity. This is must read for professionals who solves many technical problems day to day and also for college students to have a successful career.
The basis of Edward De bonos theory of thinking 'lateral' or in essense, more broadly. This was one of the first of Edward De bono's books that I read. Great read. In his efforts to explain complex theorys, he uses insightful abstract comparisons that his theorys have with tangible objects. Love it
Being creative is a process, seeing through different lenses and different ways of using information. Also most importantly practice. Good one.
Only read this if you want to verbalise De Bono congratulatorily masturbating to himself.
This book starts with a dilemma faced by a pretty merchant's daughter confronted by her father's nasty creditor.
Where they stand are white and black stones.
A white stone means the debt is settled, a black stone means the debt is settled but she must marry the money-lender.
Our heroine notices that the money lender puts two black stones in the bag.
(You need to look at the book to see what she does, I won't spoil it.) De Bono likes to point out that this phrase - lateral thinking - was coined by him and is now in the Oxford dictionary.
The idea could potentially help you to 10X your current performance because it will help you to zoom out and break/surpass what is holding you back.
A very interesting read on a different way of thinking.
If you consider yourself a logical thinker you might hate this or you might find this one of the best reads of your life.
My friend who suggested this told me to read it over a few years.
There is a lot of good stuff in it and in order to process a lot of it, you will need to read it over time.
As much as we think logically and vertically in life, there comes a time when those techniques just won't be good enough to solve your problem.Enter lateral thinking. This book gives am idea on what lateral thinking is, how it alongside vertical thinking is the most deadliest tool an individual can have in solving any problem.This book and it's concepts should be introduced in our primary education system and kids should be taught to inculcate lateral thinking in heir day by day world.A good book to read and understand buy at your own pace.
Reading Notes :1 the way mind works2 difference between lateral and vertical thinking3 attitudes towards lateral thinking4 basic nature of lateral thinking5 the use of lateral thinking6 techniques78 generation of alternatives9 innovation10 1112 dominant ideas and crucial factors13 fractionation14 reversal method
A pesar de que De Bono es uno de los grandes autores de la creatividad, su propuesta se basa en la forma de romper esquemas mentales para “saber qué pasa” y si esto nos lleva a algún lado.
Este parece un libro un poco redundante, ya que en cada capítulo repite la esencia del pensamiento lateral, sin embargo y como el mismo autor lo menciona, es un libro para leerse por capítulos y de consulta en la enseñanza del pensamiento lateral.
Esto último, indica quiénes son los lectores ideales de esta obra: educadores, maestros y personas interesantes en reestructurar su pensamiento, por lo que al libro se le debe leer evitando juicios precipitados.
Thought provoking.
Skim read
But with lateral thinking, the purpose is finding something interesting and eventually getting to an answer regardless of the path we took to get there.The book is good at explaining what vertical and lateral thinking are and how they differ from each other, and it provides some techniques to facilitate lateral thinking along with practices to actually try out those techniques.Let’s start with the good stuff.
I loved the analogies the author made to explain the concept of lateral and vertical thinking, it simplified how the brain processes information and the possible limitations it entails.
هذا التقييم لا يعكس جودة الكتاب بالضرورة عموما الكتاب يتحدث عن التفكير الجانبي و هو التفكير غير التقليدي او غير العمودي و يستعرض بعض الامثلة المثيرة للاهتمام عن بعض العلماء و دور الصدفة و التفكير الجانبي و غير التقليدي في اكتشافاتهم
So, I wondered if there's a way to find a distinct pattern, a sort of well-proven technique to pull off "eurekas" every single day.In De Bono's "Serious Creativity", which I read a couple of weeks ago, the author dwells upon his concept of "Six thinking hats" and some other thinking tools, such as random words or images.
At first, it didn't come off as a viable tactic, but I tried it myself and it worked!Other concepts that De Bono extrapolates on are finding the crucial point (e.g., do robots need to have five-fingered hands, like humans?
A brilliant book that taught me how to think outside the box. As a child of the 80s education system that was all rote and assembly line methodology. This book really showed me how to step out of that mold and helped me break down the walls that I was so used to. Taught me to think on an infinite plane, it is daunting trust me!
The book is really written using Lateral Thinking. The things explained to explain Lateral Thinking are from so many different things that your mind swings here and there often which gives you headache. Change is painful and to think out of the box is also very tough. Bringing things that are not relevant to the context to think innovative needs practice and Edward De Bono has explained it so well that anybody who reads the book will change the way they think when it's time to think of something new. I would recommend everyone to read Edward De Bono.
Edward de Bono is always great, but my rating actually was about my expectation. I looked to have some hands on or answers for the how questions, while the book answers the what & why questions. I read almost the first quarter of it and when I did not find my target I flipped most it searching for them but I did not. Again I love Edward but this is about what I'm looking for.
This was a ground breaking book when it was published. The author Edward de Bono is a pioneer inlateral thinking and brought in new terms like Po into common usage. This book is meant to be read and re read to get its full benefits. Having said that the concepts are as of date quite common and much advancement has happened over the last twenty years. Still worth a try.
This book "lateral thinkin'" was really unusual and evoked new thoughts and new insights in me.But after flippin' few pages I bit felt that points are repeated in different manner.Illustrations provided with diagram are self explanatory.Another con I wud put forward is, this book for most part was crafted for school teachers or group working. Altogether I can call this book good read.
Best book on exploring the way we think. Very usefull in making one conscious of the thinking patterns followed and how to brake away from a stalled thinking pattern to see a problem different and to come up with possible solutions.
I poured over this for the past few months and renewed it at the library numerous times. I think that I would rather have had it taught to me as is refferred in the book. But non the less some practical idea's that I have already put to use in my every day life.
I think that even though it's meant to be used as a book for a teacher, reading it helped me finding new ways and trying my best to be more open minded. If you are having problems finding solutions you might want to check it out, it might give you a hand even if you don't realize it at first.
Must read book for thinkers and creatives :)
