https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/143999.South
MapsIntroductionPreface--South: The Endurance ExpeditionAppendix I:Scientific WorkSea-Ice NomenclatureMeteorologyPhysicsSouth Atlantic Whales and WhalingAppendix II:The Expedition Huts at McMurdo SoundIndex
I doubt there could be a more real life example of the ‘What would you take to a desert island?’ than Shackleton’s trip to the Antarctic. There is an exhibition of the photographs of that trip on at the RGS in London at the moment. One of the photos shows a wall of books, his floating library. The RGS has been able to digitally enhance it, so that we now know exactly what Shackleton took on this unhappy expedition.Can you judge a book by its cover? Magazine correctly judged by cover (from The On
The RGS has been able to digitally enhance it, so that we now know exactly what Shackleton took on this unhappy expedition.Can you judge a book by its cover?
Magazine correctly judged by cover (from The Onion) The fact is that one often can.
And taking that notion a little further, surely we can judge a man by the covers of his books.
In fact, although not one of my 500+ goodreads friends has reviewed any of these authors, Locke is still well read and loved, judging by the reviews.
And then it got really cold.
And we're hungry.
And it' cold and we're hungry.
And phewy, it's really freaking cold.
Ice. Seals.
Chewing on blubber.
Blubber fires.
Did I mention it's cold?
Seriously, I'm really cold.
Shoulda worn another sweater.
Shoulda brought an extra pair of gloves.
Shoulda brought some extra cans of Pringles.
Ice!
It's really COLD!
It's really COLD!
It's really COLD!
It's really COLD!
Planning for the mission began in 1913 and when World War I erupted the scientific voyage was not canceled.
The ship was loaded with many provisions along with teams of sled dogs, which set a suspenseful atmosphere similar to a Jack London novel.Along the way forced implementation of contingency plans became a reality and similar to the youth fighting continents away in WWI the biologists had to deal with their own do or die basic survival instincts.
Despite sitting here in October whining to myself about my cold fingers while typing, I have to admit I've got kind of a thing for grueling polar expeditions and the occasional 19th century disastrous sea voyage.
Yeah, sure, it's important to have someone competent and inspiring and visionary making big decisions and guiding the works, but I'm not going around yapping about it all the time and pillaging the "leadership and management" section at the bookstore.
Many of the men who Shackleton saved from the horrors of ice, the polar seas in rowboats and foodlessness came back to get promptly mowed down in the trenches of Europe.
Extremely interesting and riveting in places even knowing how it all turned out.Available at:http://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/5199https://librivox.org/south-by-ernest-...
This voyage alone, through freezing, storm swept, mountainous souther ocean, would be enough for a heroic survival story, and upon landing on the wrong side of South Georgia the men still have to make a long and dangerous march in order to reach the whaling station and raise help.The conditions faced by the crew of the Aurora across the continent in the Ross Sea were no less incredible.
Having read Endurance last month, I so appreciated Mallory's recommendation to follow up with Shackleton's own account!
I'm glad I read them in this order, as the former read more as a novel, giving a better description of the cast of characters and was organized in a more dramatic fashion.
Shackleton, on the other hand, preferred to give away the ending!
This first hand account was absolutely enchanting.
His descriptions of the phenomena and experiences in the Antarctic were vivid, and the personal insights into their unlikely survival were inspiring.
I highly recommend this as a follow up to Endurance.
No, seriously, Shackleton's writing is very clinical and matter of fact.
You can know that going in, and think, huh, people going to the south pole in 1914...yadda yadda.
You think you are cold?
You think you are hungry?
Read this book, it will blow you away.
Last note, on top of all the craziness that is traveling to the South Pole by boat and not returning for a couple of years, the end, where Shackleton mentions that EVERY person in the account who did not DIE on the ice went straight into WORLD WAR 1.
That's being Shackleton tough.
A terrible adventure gone wrong. A compulsive read about explorer Ernest Shackleton and his crew who in attempting to reach th pole, spend years frozen in the ice. What do you think happens to a crew of men, stuck in the perilous icepack, guided by the currents,with a limited supply of food and fuel? Read and find out what a true leader is made of in this true story, written by some of the men who were there and lived to tell the tale! Another great historical exploration along the same vein as Scott, Amundson, Appsley Cherry-Gerard, and Frank Hurley.
It's one of the great adventure stories of all time, and smashing stuff (get it?) but...here's how it works: it's based on the journals of Shackleton and everyone else in his party - he gives others lots of time too - and the entries can be a little repetitious.
And it's much shorter even than it looks, because after the story of the Aurora's landing party (again, this really is great stuff on its own), Shackleton backtracks again, to the people who stayed on the Aurora, and that part is utterly skippable.
I love reading about Polar explores and this book just blew me away. This book was Ernest Shackelton’s journal of the Endurance Expidition and his participation of trying to save the crew of another boat called the Aurora.Some of the stand out members of the expedition were Named Wild and Creen. This was one of those books that I wanted to finish in one sitting. But work got in the way. I could keep going on about how great this book is, but you must experience it for yourself.
"Difficulties are just things to overcome, after all." -Ernest Shackleton
Here is where the story begins anew as 'Uncle' Shackleton and 5 men depart for help leaving behind the remaining expedition team on the remote barren island with a protective shelter of 2 upturned lifeboats and a veneer of sealskins, and a diet consisting of pemmican hoosh, ship biscuit, seal blubber and seal meat when that could be hunted...If all this hadn't been enough, the rescue party then attempts the crossing of the extreme South Atlantic (acknowledged as arguably the most treacherous open sea on the planet) in the remainng lifeboat - the James Caird.
(I have read that this man was a stowaway when Endurance left South America, but Shackleton makes no mention of this.)What is not often recounted in this epic is the depot laying expedition of the Cape Evans party (who lost three men) in similar heroic circumstances to Scott's march, and avoided the same fate by the narrowest of margins.
Also the account of the Ross Sea expedition ship Aurora, that battled with the pack ice and could easily have ended up with it's demise just like the Endurance.
The person who recommended this book to me mentioned looking at leadership traits, so I was thinking about that as I read this book.Team building:He was constantly thinking about his men, and how to keep their spirits up, and how to keep them working together as a team.Perseverance:Of course they did everything to survive as they struggled together, but I especially liked how Shackleton kept trying to rescue his men after he made it to civilization in South Georgia.
He placed himself when possible between his men and the danger.
The story of their survival is incredible, it was definitely worth reading.
If you're familiar with Shackleton's story, you likely want to read this just for the sake of completion.
He was obviously writing this for his contemporaries to prove that his expedition had not been a complete failure.
(It's sad really that scientific exploration alone couldn't have been their goal with less emphasis originally placed on the glory of reaching an arbitrary goal of crossing the continent before anyone else.) But in writing with this audience in mind, Shackleton glosses over some of the conflicts that I think modern audiences would be more interested in reading about.
Envoûtée par ces aventures polaires, j’ai enchaîné avec L’odyssée de l’Endurance, qui relate la 4e expédition britannique en Antarctique du XXe siècle.
Le pôle Sud ayant été atteint en décembre 1911 par le Norvégien Amundsen, et Shackleton ayant toujours le goût de l’aventure, il ne lui reste plus qu’à tenter la traversée du continent, de la mer de Weddel à l’île de Ross, via le pôle Sud. C’est avec l’Endurance, navire conçu spécialement pour des voyages polaires, qu’il se rend en mer de Weddell, plein d’espoirs.
L’Endurance restera bloqué par les glaces durant plusieurs mois, à la dérive, avant de finir broyé.Lire la suite
Read this one while you're hating how freaking cold out it is!!
It's been a while since I read this, but if I remember correctly, it's all taken from the journals of the men on the expedition.
There's a lot of stuff about lattitude and longitude, and 5000 different ways to describe cold and snow and ice!
You may find that you want to skim over some of the more "scientific" stuff and just get to the good parts!
This book will make you feel like a complete and total wimp next time you need to scrape ice off the windshield, but you forgot your gloves and your fingers are getting a little cold!
"I had a bad attack of snow-blindness and had to use cocaine. Hayward also had a bad time. I was laid up and had to keep my eyes bandaged for three days." They don't make adventurers like this anymore. It was epic stuff all the way. Shackleton, if anything, played down how hard it was. As someone who has tried to sleep in a soaking wet sleeping bag, I am awestruck how they survived that in Antartic conditions. A great read.
Gripping stuff.
"For knowledge and erudition, give me Scott. For expeditionary and exploration prowess, take Peary. But if disaster strikes, get down on your knees and pray for Shackleton!"
What an incredible story!! The ability to survive in such an environment is quite incredible, esp considering this was over 100 years ago now. Written by Shackleton himself you can tell he is an explorer (this won’t win any writing awards) but is fairly accessible and easy to follow. And there are parts that are so incredible you just want to get to the end of the chapter. And it’s free on kindle.
This is Ernest Shackleton's personal account of his adventure to Antarctica.
He descirbes in great detail the grandeur of the adventure, the highs and lows.
I especially liked how he describes their final stretch to cross the island of South Georgia and reach civliliation with little food and no water.
He said the three of them the presence of a fourth person who helped them on their final leg.
They survived on seals, penguins and other animals they could obtain.
It is an amazing story of survival and optimism.
I highly recommend reading this book or reading anything about Shackleton's adventure to cross Antarctica.
Simply amazing!
"South" by Sir Ernest Shackleton,1919.
Shackleton's first hand account is one of the most well known survival narratives of the 20th century.
Shackleton's writing is mostly cool and factual, more like that of a sea captain's ship log, rather than that of a personal diary.
As he and his crew begin to feel the pangs of scurvy, Shackleton shrinks from shooting an over flying albatross.
Under the most trying of conditions Shackleton remains acutely aware of the potency of morale upon his men.
In the end, owing to Shackleton strong determination and leadership skills, not a single member of the 'Endurance Expedition" was lost.
When I became the proud owner of a Kindle, I was reading a paperback novel (Mudbound).
Not wanting to start another novel, I decided to read a bit of "South!" (downloaded free from Amazon) while I finished the paperback.
The lives of Shackleton and his party have a routine monotony that is a stark contrast to their constant struggle for survival during their journey.
The prose isn't the most free flowing ever written, sometimes relying on other party member's journals, and interspersed with comments about longitude and latitude and the like, but the overall account of what the members of this expedition endured makes "South!" a fascinating and inspiring read.
It was the first book I read about Arctic exploration and because of this book I have read a few more on the subject.
So this book opened the door to a new subject for me...
And I have to say, every book I have read on Arctic exploration has been amazing.
Scurvy, pirates, sinking, cannibals....
Apparently the pirates and stuff were just for the amateurs.
These are amazing stories, and Shackelton's mission to Antarctica is one of the big ones.
Great book that made a big impact on me.
This a recount of real events that reads like fiction.
Language in this book is beautiful and flows naturally, what makes it a fairly easy and quick read.When reading non-fiction it is always difficult to not judge the reasons, decisions and events behind the story.
I refrain from doing that as my rating would drop drastically, as I was rather critical of the whole adventure.
Nevertheless we can't change past and these events took place exactly a 100 years ago.
And taking that into account I was amazed by the fact how these explorers managed to survive so long in such a harsh climate.
Reading Shackleton's story always makes me feel like I need more testosterone in my life, like I should tackle something grand and important and mostly crazy. It also makes me glad that I spend most of my time warm enough and full enough. Aside from being a great (completely true) adventure story, it's a great testament to a fantastic leader that he brought all the men who went with him back home, despite their incredible hardships.
It's hard to judge these books by the same standards you'd use on anything else. Shackleton is not a writer, but his tale of the, well, failure of the Endurance makes for a riveting read. The fact that they all (spoiler alert) survived after horrific struggles with the ice, cold, hunger, thirst and depression is a little bit miraculous, and Shackleton's understated tone makes it all the more impressive.
