https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16683.Tunnel_in_the_Sky
Very original and entertaining Heinlein adventure.This was one of my favorite Heinlein juvenile books and concerns a Stargate type of portal (did this influence the later films?) where colonists are sent out into the farther reaches of the universe.
But before a band of colonists would attempt to settle a planet, adventurous types would go out first to provide reconnaissance and determine of the habitat was livable.Many of Heinlein's later ideas are revealed here, and his hard scrabble libertarianism blossoms.
Many scenes anticipate his later work Time Enough for Love.
I also think about Philip K.
Dick's novel The Crack in Space.
Are you civic-minded enough?As an adventure and a straight story, it's pretty great all the way to the point where they start voting, then my attention started wandering a bit.
Plus, even though the women were all pretty strong and as can-do as the men, I didn't quite like how the old stereotypes came out in conversation...
I just hate the idea that women have to pretend to be men to be treated like men.
Of course, she turned it right back and said the same thing about men in any closed group.
I loved the whole stargate survival business and the worldbuilding that led up to it.
After reading Brad's review just now, my fingers, as far as I can tell entirely of their own volition, googled "strong female characters in Heinlein".
How could I not have remembered that?!- The only worthwhile characters in Have Spacesuit, Will Travel, PeeWee and the Mother Thing, are both female.- The one I really feel bad about is Podkayne of Mars.
I'd completely forgotten that her mother was a "Master Engineer, Heavy Construction, Surface or Free Fall", who rebuilt Phobos and Deimos.
I tell you, I'm that close to rereading the entire suite of Heinlein juveniles to show how sincerely repentant I am.
I really liked this book and read it many times in my youth.
I just reread it and I must say that as is the case with many of Heinlein's works (though sadly not all) this novel holds up and read from a more adult point of view has facets that a younger reader may miss.Tunnel in the Sky is one of what are usually called Heinlein's youth or teen books.
I believe that for some as with me this book will stir imagination in a way that will stay with you...and now I'm an old guy.Highly recommended, enjoy.
I also think he went out of his way to try and showcase his positive beliefs throughout his fiction, which means that now, for today's readers, his views on and of women and portrayals of women remain for all to see, whereas many of his contemporaries didn't rate women at all, so their opinions never saw the light of day (and, thereby, they escape the sort of criticism Heinlein's writing invites).
I'm 2/9 of the way in & quite impressed (no, not by the sound quality) by all the things Heinlein's managed to pack into the beginning of this novel.
I have to say, sending mules & steers across makes absolutely no sense & undercuts the point for using hay burners that he just made, though.
Rod, our hero, is black according to Heinlein.
There isn't anything to point out his race one way or the other, mostly the clues are in the lack of descriptive elements.
But he's basically a good guy who does a lot of growing & never gives up, so he gets what he wants eventually.
A good, solid Heinlein "juvenile" SF about a group of young adults stranded on a distant world during the final exam of an "advanced survivor" course.
It was still a decent read and Heinlein does a good job showing the difficulty in arriving at a group consensus for important decisions, it just was not as compelling for me as the first half of the story.
I am a big fan of interesting world building and what I call "explanatory SF" meaning the backstory of a science fiction universe.
Thus, once the students became stranded, the most interesting parts of the story were over for me.
Classic sci fi from a classic sci fi author -- gotta love it :) Best part is the plethora of kickass female characters, starting with the main character's sister who is a commander in an advanced military division known as the Amazons. She didn't need to be for the story to work, which makes it even better. Not deep or epic or philosophical, but an entertaining story well told.
Heinlein turns how Rod and the others survived their stay on this strange planet into a fascinating tale.
Sex and race are irrelevant to the job of surviving on this dangerous planet and Heinlein treats them that way.
Heinlein uses this micro-society to explore the advantages and disadvantages of democracy and those of the very concept of government itself, while Rod discovered that politics trumps ability every time.
The story also depicts how the young people strived over the two years or so that they were stranded on that planet to build a decent society and civilization.
One excuse I'd used was I was part of a sci-fi/fantasy book group that read a novel by Heinlein to start the year and I figured we'd eventually get around to Tunnel.
It's not quite as eye-rollingly bad as some other Heinlein installments, but it still made the second half of the book seem a bit less entertaining and interesting than the first.I will say the final chapter or so makes up for this with some interesting developments for Rod and company.
In this classic science fiction novel Heinlein is takes us through the experiences of a young man, Rod Walker, who as part of a final exam (high school, no less) on a survival course must complete a period of a few days on an alien planet, surviving on his own.The 'Tunnel in the sky' actually refers to the method in which a future society has developed to colonise far worlds.
I noticed that Rod is portrayed on the cover of the audio version I just finished as being of African ancestry, whereas all of the previous paper versions I've seen show him as Caucasian; race doesn't affect the story either way.
The obsessive working of mathematics on paper is the only really jarring anachronism in the story to my mind.
It's a very good story, and though I doubt that it all ends up the way any reader would prefer, I can't imagine anyone not finding something in the plot to hold their deep interest.
But before people are allowed to start a new life in a frontier world, they must take survival classes which culminate in a test in which students are dopped into alien environments and must survive or die.Our protagonist is takes his test and is sent to an alien world (along with many other students) only to find himself cut off and stranded after something goes wrong.
And the problem of what to do with unsocialable individuals who just won't tow the line manifests itself too.This is also a form of coming of age tale for the protagonist as the harsh realities of survival and later responsibility turn him from a youth into a man.Whilst this is one of the better Heinlein novels I have read, it was still not perfect.
It has a fast-moving plot, interesting child characters (though a little older than is typical for him) and a fantastic speculative setting.Rod Stewart is precocious enough to be taking Advanced Survival in high school instead of the more typical college timing.
Accident causes the gate to stop functioning and leaves Rod's class of 20 and three other classes stranded on the planet for longer than had been expected.In addition to interesting brushes with nature, the children have to learn to live with, as Heinlein typically puts it, the most dangerous animal known to man -- each other.

Survival stories are frequent in YA literature, and Tunnel in the Sky was probably one of the first, originally published in 1955.
Anyone who enjoyed The Hunger Games or Ender's Game would probably also enjoy this story, as it has similar themes.
The time period of its original publication is evident in a few moments, but not to the extent I am used to when reading Heinlein.I'd probably say 3.5 stars, but that rounds up to 4.See my longer review on SFF Audio, including information on the audiobook by Full Cast Audio.
I thoroughly enjoyed this classic YA novel. I always knew it was a "lord of the Flies" type story but the way the teenagers interacted and the way they faced situations was so well done that's its clear why Robert Heinlein was one of the masters of science fiction. Although written over 50 years ago, the book isn't dated much at all. A few turns of phrase that aren't in vogue today, but basically, it is such a good view of the human condition that it is timeless.
Rod is vindicated, and becomes mayor of their colony for a year, when the gate reopens and suddenly he is no longer an independent leader on a frontier world, but a kid again, with all that that entails.There are lots of hints of ideas that Heinlein would develop in later works.
The themes of power and responsibility in Starship Troopers, the frontier space colonies of Time Enough for Love, and the survivalism of Farnham's Freehold.
His female characters (Caroline, Jack), are the equals of the men, but it takes Rod some time to get over his prejudices against women.
It's not really clear...) via stargates.The basic conceit ('survival' courses for high school seniors, with a final practicum 'graded' so that you pass if you survive a set period in an unfamiliar environment) is an old one.
The explorers who set up the stargates would likely choose environments that were similar to Earth's--but those would be WAY harder to find.One point I've always found disturbing about Heinlein is his ruthlessness as regards local life.
When the life is clearly sapient, he argues in favor of open warfare against the locals by the invading humans.
There's far less hectoring of the reader than you get in some of his books, for instance; Heinlein can be very reluctant to just tell you the story without also telling you what you should think about everything under the sun.
However, whatever credit he deserves for arguing that "girls" can be just as capable as boys at conventionally masculine tasks, for instance, is esadicated by the fact that he is nevertheless amazingly condescending about it, given that inevitably for these girls, doing so is basically just a stopgap until the right man comes along, and that despite the theoretical equal competence of the girls, they are nevertheless still treated as weaker vessels that need protecting when things get tough.
The more Heinlein I read, the more I have to think this guy had serious issues.
Farnham's Freehold comes from the adult period (it was after Starship Troopers and Stranger in a Strange Land but before The Moon is a Harsh Mistress), but the family-centric plot and the fairly straight-forward moral message (it was intended as an anti-racism message) make it very similar to his juvenile works.
The final scene is triumphant--placing the novel firmly in the juvenile category at the end--but everything up until that point is tinged with the complexity, darkness, and taboo-violations that would typify Heinlein's later work.So, did I like it?
OMG this book started out with such a great premise and then totally TANKED like halfway through. SERIOUSLY "let's get stranded on another planet with infinite social possibilities and make sure to reinstate all the most booooring institutions FIRST THING." urgh. plus heinlein is a sexist sexist jerkface.
It may also be the reason why it’s taken me a little time to work up to it – indeed, I’ve skipped ahead and after reading The Star Beast have gone onto Double Star rather than face this one.But I must admit I was quite excited to re-read an old friend.To the plot, then: Rod Walker is a high school student who, as part of his Advanced Survival studies, has to live on an unknown and uncivilised planet for anything between two and ten days in order to pass his course.
One of Heinlein's more youthful books. It had several really good twists and wasn't as dramatic as other "youths-surviving-in-the-outdoors" type of books (like Lord of the Flies). That made the story more interesting and harder to foresee, since it didn't fully follow the most mainstream types of story evolution. It also makes some small criticism of anthropology and consumerism (not directly linked together). A good and sound book to read that left me with a nice warm feeling.
The main message of the story was that every one has its own beast which he has to fight in a new environment. The beast will be different all the time. But it is there and it has to be fighted when you will survive. I read this book in just a week during my study. And I had to fight a lot of beasts then. Test, exams, books to read for the study, stupid Professors and ass*** students. But I found allways a way to get back on the way. Therefor I have to thank R.A.H. for this book.
Probably one if the first science fiction books I ever picked up, and it helped spur a lifelong journey of reading and writing the genre.
Stargates, nice. A retelling of Lord of the Flies that more matches what I'd expect.
But in the main, it's a description of how some teens from Tom Brokaw's "Greatest Generation" (this was written barely ten years after the conclusion of WW II) managed to create order from chaos: reflective of Heinlein's fairly ubiquitous view that when the going gets tough, the tough get going.
I was reminded of another book, "King Rat" by James Clavell (1962), when reading the concluding pages.
After a couple of years in a society not only created by an isolated group, but also judged and endorsed by that same group, it comes as a shock that the "rescuers" might not see their accomplishments as anything but the most basic of survival tactics and that the rescuers may be seen as intruders, rather than saviors.
Which kind of sucked because I started it around 2am.
It's 6am now, and I just finished this book.
It has my mind in a vise.That being said, the book is pretty much "The lord of the flies" in space.
I mean, they throw 100 teenagers on a distant earth-like planet, with just a few knives, and a couple scarce guns.
Create their own laws.100 teenagers...
and there is literally 2 fights in the whole damn book.
They would be fighting constantly, just like The Lord of the Flies.
But damn, Bobby boy.
Teenagers are not this happy.
Teenagers are fucking miserable.
Heinlein does some really interesting things with gender roles in this book, which considering it's aimed at male teenagers in 1955 is very good.
The plot of this book I found interesting, a far future society intent on colonising other worlds sends out it's teenagers/young adults on survival missions so they learn to survive on their own and can prepare for the harsh life of a colonist.
I read that a review of this book which compared it to Lord of the flies, but it is so much more than that, for one thing, there are women.
