https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/676924.Betrayed
I am reading this!"Now here's the real story:Zoey thinks she's the most amazing person in this world.So wrong.Half of this book is about Zoey waiting for her freaking Superman, Eric.
And when he finally arrives, he does N-O-T-H-I-N-G except for maybe being a useless piece of shit.So much for superman...And then comes her to-be-pitied-for friends.
(not even fighting)Zoey using the elemental powers made me go like,*Even this baby is fighting better than you...*BUT WAIT!Aphrodite is actually good!and Neferet is now the official enemy!And now I seriously hope and wish from the bottom of my heart that Zoey dies and world comes to peace.
I'm loving rereading the HoN! I'm preparing for a special 10th anniversary surprise for fans, and revisiting Zoey and the Nerd Herd is such fun! And the Stevie Rae scene...sob! I bawled my eyes out. Again. I'd also forgotten how funny Heath is! On to CHOSEN!
The main character, super special, gifted, popular, admired and generally perfect, newly- turned-vampire Zoey, is torn between three men (two boys and a man to be exact…).1. Her uber-cute human ex-boyfriend Heath (Ohmygoodness!) whose - I quote - bulge in the pants she finds herself rubbing.2. Her fellow vampire and uber-handsome current boyfriend Erik (Ohmydearsweetlord) whom the entire school considers to be her boyfriend but she is not really sure because even though they’ve dated a few times
Her fellow vampire and uber-handsome current boyfriend Erik (Ohmydearsweetlord) whom the entire school considers to be her boyfriend but she is not really sure because even though they’ve dated a few times and kissed and hugged and held hands, they haven’t proceeded any further…3.
And the uber-sexy adult vampire poet and school professor Loren (no words are enough, just fan yourself here) with whom she flirts a couple of times.Her arch nemesis, Aphrodite, who used to date (Ohmydearsweetlord) Erik at some point and had been caught performing a dirty act with him in a dark corner of the school corridor, is under no circumstances to be confused with Zoey, because Zoey is not - I quote - a stank slut like Aphrodite the Ho.Coffee, anyone?
It's been years since I started this series, and I remember next to nothing, but I do recall something about  4 love interests ?You know how much I enjoy love geometry in my books.
It's always bothered me how casually teen girls throw around the word 'slut' as an insult ..
Of course, these terms are never applied to any of the guys in the series, just the girls.Zoey, the heroine I praised in the last book for being a good role model, seems to use these words a lot to describe one particular girl who she happened to catch once in a slightly compromising position in the first book.
No, but it does make her extremely hypocritical, and I find it horrible that a book clearly designed for teen girls feels the need to use these words to such an extent.
Good Lord, was this terrible.It had a great concept: a vampire finishing school.
Vampire.
She rings false as a teenager, and more frustratingly, as a person that anyone would like.There's no magic in Betrayed.
You might read it to get your vampire fix (although, truthfully, it doesn't even do that well), but it's not going to give you a reason to keep reading.
It seems to assume that teenagers aren't familiar with good writing, so there's no reason to try very hard for them.
Ήμουν αποφασισμένη να του βάλω άσο, καθώς βρίσκω την ηρωίδα εκνευριστική, ανώριμη και λυσσάρα. Μέχρι την μέση το βιβλίο δεν μου άρεσε, το συνέχιζα μόνο και μόνο επειδή είναι μικρό κ ήταν κρίμα να το αφήσω για 150 σελίδες, που μου είχαν μείνει. Εκεί λοιπόν, 150 σελίδες πριν το τέλος, επιτέλους απέκτησε ενδιαφέρον!!! Πήρε τα πάνω του κ η πλοκή έγινε γρήγορη και απέκτησε ένταση. Έκανε τέτοιο γύρισμα που για να φανταστείτε ενδιαφέρομαι να μάθω κ τη συνέχεια στο τρίτο βιβλίο! Οπότε 2/5 αστεράκια από εμένα αντί για άσο, χάρη στο κορύφωμα των τελευταίων κεφαλαίων.
I even added a whole new shelf dedicated to the "worst-reads-ever." Like I said in my review of Marked, "the authors are trying too hard to be hip" and it's not being pulled off very well.
Even if the writing is bad in a book, as long as, I connect to the characters and the story then, I can look past the painful narration.
I may be ridiculous in all my reasoning here, but I like to give things a try and I just can't stand the fact that I already started this series and I have to know where this story and characters are going to lead me...
I really enjoy the idea of these books.
I CAN'T STAND, however, the authors' tendency to re-tell the reader all of what happened in the previous books.
I mean, who is reading book 2 without having read the other book?
Do we really have to get the Cherokee translation for daughter again?
PLEASE stop treating us like we are total morons with the memory of a two-year-old.
I don't understand why that is necessary in a book that is so clearly aimed at teens.
This is definitely not Twilight, even though I find the initial ideas and characters much more intriguing.
I liked the Twilight Saga, but I'm CRAZY about The House of Night series.
It's also about teenage vampires, but these teenagers are smart and funny and serious for the most part, yet still very believable as teenagers (I didn't really feel that way about Meyer's characters).
I'm sure that's helped by the fact this is a mother and young adult daughter writing team who are absolutely fearless about what happens to their characters.
Plus it's a new and interesting twist on vampirism, which I always appreciate!
I cannot recommend this series highly enough--it is addictive!!!
There are some books I've been waiting for months to get my hands on and then there's others like P.C. and Kristin Cast's Betrayed that come into my box almost instantaneously-oh, the humanity.The good thing though is that I'm on Spring Break and had nothing to do this weekend other than babysit my father (long story short he decided to climb up a tree to rescued his crashed RC airplane and ended up breaking his foot).
Really great sequel! Can't wait to read the third one!
This book decided me against reading any more by these authors, even though I have the third book waiting.
It is all just too painful and, I know this will sound ridiculous, unbelievable (Zoey had only been marked as a vampire fledgling one month earlier!).I just can't be bothered with the purile writing style, pathetic 'slut/ho/gay' references, allusions to current celebrities, double standards, etc.
I had to keep re-reading the sentences to try and work out what was 'advanced'.Also, I may be cynical, but it seems to me that the authors are planning to churn out book after book (equating to month by month of Zoey's life) rather than give faithful readers a decent story (eg JK Rowlings).
Zoe most of the times does not feel comfortable with these rabbit changes, but she has good friends who support her.Zoe's love life is also a mess.
Zoe does not seem to mind.Other important facts of the story:-	Neferet may not be the good guy after all-	Aphrodite may not be that bad-	A leading characters does not accept the changes and she diesThen, with an enormous rush of meadow-filled wind, the green candle went out, and my best friend died.-	We finally learn what happened with the dead fledglings and this is an intriguing twist.So, expect lots of drama in this book.
Re-read: 9/5/2015 Ahhh so many memories flooded back when re-reading this book!I'm really getting back into the series.My aim for this year is to finish it finally.I remember being so obsessed years ago.This book has loss and betrayal involved.Zoe does annoy me with her constant hoe-ness.She needs to just pick a guy and stay with them!!This series is very hit and miss with a lot of people.Personally I love it as it's fun, the characters are awesome and it's oddly addictive.Can't wait to re-read the next.
https://rowansravingreviews.wordpress...Go check out my Betrayed review!
The fact that they are "loyal friends" means nothing to me, because there is no way I would be loyal to a girl who calls other girls sluts based on their sexuality and dress.Especially, when said girl (ZOE) then decides to string along three guys at the exact same time with her "supposedly" best friend telling her to do so!
It's what she saw at home, and that's what made her like she is now.” "Sorry, Zoey, but that's bullshit," Shaunee said.
"And Damien has a mama who doesn't like him anymore because he's gay.” "Yeah, and he didn't turn into a hateful slut hag," Shaunee said.
Zoey Redbird, vampire fledgling, has unusual abilities for a fledgling, and her powers (and her attraction to the opposite sex) seem to be growing in this book.Zoey has taken over as the head of the Daughters of Darkness, and wants to make it into something akin to a service club like you find at other schools.
is the hot guest lecturer vampire attracted to Zoey, or what?Aphrodite, the former leader of the Dark Daughters, may not be as bad as she seemed, and Zoey can't help but have sympathy for her after she overhears her getting chewed out by her parents.
This one started off slow, but after about fifty pages, I was captivated.
I believe the reason the beginning was slow was because it basically just went over everything that happened it the last book.
However, once the story got going, I couldn't put the book down.
It's a really emotional book, and deals with a wide range of themes including death, and as the title suggests, betrayal.
The loyalty among Zoey's group never falters though, and it really strengthens the book.
I thought this one was a lot better than the first, and it'll be great if the series keeps getting better.For more of my reviews and recommendations, visit my blog: here
this book is where it all starts to go wrong for this series.and btw does zoey seem like the sluty virgin or is that just me?
This popped up every time Zoey was trying to justify some thought or action, let us know that she knew what she was talking about, or to be snarky.
We don't need the narrator to give commentary on her narration.The authors definitely let us know how they feel about drugs and alcohol use in this book.
She also finds Stevie Rae, not quite dead.She kind of knew but had confirmed that the high priestess she looked up to and thought of as a second mother was really an evil bitch.
The book ends with whispered threats between Zoey and the high priestess.
It's childish, I know; however, that is exactly what I first think every time the main character wants a drink.
Perhaps its a issue with not broadcasting a certain company, but American Eagle was mentioned by name in the book so I don't know why Coke or Pepsi wasn't.
I like to think as Damien as more than just a homosexual, but the Cast's cannot stop bringing it up.
It goes a little like this: "Damien is gay, but we treat him like a regular friend.
I'm going to finish the third book, but that will probably be the last one for me.SPOILER: Damien is gay.
Uvažovala jsem o jedné hvězdičce, ale je fakt, že tahle kniha měla o něco propracovanější příběh než první díl...takže by bylo nespravedlivé hodnotit jí hůř.V téhle knížce ubyla spousta těch legračních na hlavu padlých situací a frází, které mě v prvním díle docela bavily.
Co ale zůstalo, je autorčina snaha označovat víru v Boha za nebezpečnou úchylku.
A zůstává i autorčina snaha moralizovat (nekuřte a nepijte alkohol, děti, je to špatné!), kterou trochu vyvrací fakt, že Zoey skočí po každém dobře vypadajícím klukovi, který jí složí nějaký kompliment (pokud jsem dobře počítala, chodí rovnou se 3 najednou!).
"You're the only third former ever to have been made leader of the Dark Daughters and the only fledgling or vampyre in history who has shown an affinity for all five of the elements.""Face it, Z," Shaunee said around a bite of salad while she gestured at me with her fork."You're special." Erin finished for her (as usual).I am going to go ahead and admit something right now: I didn't go into Betrayed with high expectations.
Aphrodite is now old news and her 'evil' ways are done.
Even Neferet has said that the Goddess has taken away Aphrodite's gift of seeing the future...
Human Teenagers that Zoey used to know are dying and Aphrodite has a vision that ends up saving Zoey's grandmama.
While I think there are some great things about this series, I can also say there are some things that could be done better.
I know that some people have said that this is how teenagers are...
I love how the ones we think maybe 'evil' characters, aren't always evil.
I'm still really glad that I'm re-reading this series.So like I said, this one has a little bit more going on in it, which makes sense; you expect that each book has a little more drama as you become more familiar with the world it takes place in and more characters are introduced.
The big things in this one are: Zoey's love rectangle (since it's 3 guys, not two); Zoey and Aphrodite; the gang and their affinities; Neferet; and Stevie Rae.All I remember from the next book is that everything intensifies even more, and I think I remember a character that is introduced, but other than that, I don't know what I'm getting into, and I'm excited to find out.
Still trying to figure out what's so good about a girl who can't say 'shit' but can call someone Slut and hag with the blink of an eye, for having sex with her own boy friend (or ex-boyfriend). And yet she is dating 2 boys at the same time, and having sex with the one that is not her boyfriend. Also The writing is pitiful.
When I started reading this book, I swore it was a book that couldn’t pique my fancy.
Betrayed (House of Night #2) by P.C and Kristin Cast started out slow, but, somewhere in the middle, I began liking the book.
Despite the mediocre writing, the plot, I admit is good.
Probably having a little boylet, here and there.
Despite her having three love interests, I don’t take it against her.
But dah, I’m no Zoey Redbird.Anyway, this book makes me want to pick up the next one, as in now.
I swore it couldn’t pick my fancy, but now, karma’s eating at me.
'Looking offended and superior and gayer than he usually looked'  Mood?Sooo i read up to book 9? when i was like 11?12?13?*who the fuck knows or cares*and i decided to get a copy of these books because i like owning shit i read *kinda why whenever i borrow something i regret it*.shit i borrowed and i plan on buying are House Of Night 3-9,Harry Potter and Fifty Shades.yes i know.quality shit.Back to the review? I decided to reread this because i was bored and i honestly can't understand why lil
when i was like 11?12?13?*who the fuck knows or cares*and i decided to get a copy of these books because i like owning shit i read *kinda why whenever i borrow something i regret it*.shit i borrowed and i plan on buying are House Of Night 3-9,Harry Potter and Fifty Shades.yes i know.quality shit.Back to the review?
Great second edition to the House of Night series..I liked the first book but this book was even better in my opinion.
Mostly because your already settled with the characters and new locations so you get into it more.Events in Betrayed continue from about month after the events in Marked (the first book in this series) finished.The book is narrated in first person by sixteen-year old Zoey a fledgling vampyre who has been gifted with unusual powers by the vampyre goddess Nyx. Betrayed sees a more confident Zoey.
Synopsis:Summary (from the book jacket)Fledgling vampyre Zoey Redbird has managed to settle in at the House of Night finishing school.
