https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/891815.Defy_Not_the_Heart
1989, such an odd time for romance novels - not quite old school, not quite new.
8. But she was furious when another woman dared have a preference for her own marriage, too, because women just don't know what was right for them.9.
But women aren't supposed to like sex, so he doesn't actually respect her thoughts on that matter.11.
And cleared up!And, actually, the second half or so of the book is the two of them working at their marriage and growing as individuals and as a couple and really becoming a solid pair.
He is to kidnap Lady Reina and bring her to her “betrothed,” Lord Rothwell, an elderly man who Reina’s never met.
A marriage of convenience takes place, and the two seemingly different spouses settle into married life.“Defy Not the Heart” combines some of my favorite tropes to make this book a truffle-bacon-cheese-and-macaroni comfort read: First the cover: A dazzling Elaine Duillo masterpiece with a pink-purple background featuring a blond Fabio, looking like Prince Adam of Eternia in a white poofy shirt that drapes off his shoulders, baring his massive pecs & biceps, and purple tights that cling to his bulging muscles.
Cuando lo leí en su momento yo pensé que tenía los tópicos superados y me encontraba una maravilla pero no es tan así.
Entretiene pero hoy en día tiene ciertas escenas que huelen espantosamente a relaciones no consentidas, que son bastante claras; por ahí la autora lo tapa con humor por la gracia que tiene Reina pero objetivamente no dejan de ser lo que son.
Añoraba a esta Johanna que me metió el amor por el romance histórico en primer lugar, y si le pongo *cincoestrellas* es porque me encanta, es una novela muy disfrutable y aunque predecible me hizo reír y suspirar de amor por ambos, que a su manera son perfectos para el otro.
"Defy not the Heart" is the story of Ranulf and Reina.Since her father passed away an year ago, Reina de Champeney is the lady of her keep in Clydon and does everything to help her people- including making decisions about her marriage, a power which her father left her with.
They get married for mutual benefit, and consummate for duty.Soon proximity leads to attraction, which blooms into love.I hate the virgin pornstar phenomena, and this didn't have it!
Sweet ending.Safe/ Safe with minor exceptions (view spoiler)[ when the couple marries, H is not attracted to the heroine, hence considers talking to other wenches but Theo scares them away.
Things don't go quite the way she planned and instead she is kidnapped by Ranulf.
Of course, Renulf is gorgeous and all the women want him.
He didn't want Reina.
He'd also just toss up Reina's skirts wherever they were, had sex with her like a whore and never thought to pleasure her...until she finally got angry enough to tell him she wasn't enjoying it.He was such a pig.
Him wanting to go off and battle all the time wasn't very reassuring though.
As far as we and Reina know, he hasn't so far...he wants only his wife.
And, actually, the second half or so of the book is the two of them working at their marriage and growing as individuals and as a couple and really becoming a solid pair.
1989, such an odd time for romance novels - not quite old school, not quite new.
I loved Ranulf Fitz Hugh and more so his lady, Reina.
There was definitely the build up, which began with contempt that eventually turned to love.
But not just love.
Love Theo.
However, it didn't bother me at all and I did really enjoy the book.
Fun, fulfilling and enjoyable romance novel.
Good characters.
Good plot.
This is another of the "fave" romance novels of my preteen years.About the COVER:I don't know how I feel, to be completely honest.
I love this cover.Yes Fabio is hilarious.
Yes his chest is gleaming and grossly oiled and his hair is long.But it's like a CLASSIC ROMANCE NOVEL COVER.
But it's still fucking fabulous.Okay, now about the actual story:It's adorable.
I love what's his name, Ranulf I think it was.
Love the cat Lady Ella.
Love to hate the actual Lady Ella.
But I remember loving this.
I don't know about you, but I think that's just comedic gold right there.
I've often found Johanna Lindsey's stories to be either lukewarm or heavy on the Rapey McRaperton with not a ton of substance.
I loved Ranulf Fitz Hugh and more so his lady, Reina.
Don't know that I'd fully qualify this story as a Bodice Ripper, though it definitely had some elements.
There was definitely the build up, which began with contempt that eventually turned to love.
But not just love.
Mutual respect, admiration, and tenderness which developed at a pace that felt realistic and made me feel invested in the characters; a sure sign that I'm loving a story.
The gruff and stubborn hero meets his match in his little general.I’m a huge sucker for a historical romance and medieval is one of my favourite types.
A strong and determined heroine who does not hesitate to speak her mind and a hero with a surly attitude, good looks and a dislike of “Lady’s” which by the end of the story you know is well founded.
It was a good decision in the end.Reina and Ranulf’s first meeting was not ideal and they don’t particularly like each other.
I haven't read this book in forever and ever.
I do like these older books from Johanna Lindsey.
Even though the sexy scenes are very tame, there is just a really good story with these older books.
I love the growing romance between Reina & Ranulf and it's not one of those insta-loves that we read in today's romances (though I do like those as well).
Johanna Lindsey books are always a great re-read.
I didn't realize until checking the book in GR that there is a second book after this and for the life of me I can't remember if I've read that book.
4.5 stars. I've never read a medieval romance before (Philippa Gregory and time travel romances don't count!) and the cover was really cheesy but something made me purchase this last week and, wow, what a great story. I might consider more of these type of stories now.
Then at some point I stopped reading HR for a while and while I was away, the New School authors had taken the field, like Julia Quinn and Sabrina Jeffries.This is classic Lindsey all the way.
It’s so much fun to watch Ranulf and Reina learn to deal with each other, various relatives, a jealous cat - literal cat, not metaphorical - assorted ill-wishers and evil exes, and fall in love along the way.
There is one scene where Ranulf spanks Reina as punishment, but even then it’s portrayed as at least partly erotic.
Got rid of most of them, but decided to go ahead and keep it since I'd had the second in this set on the TBR for years, and now I know I'll one day read it too.I wasn't sure if I was ever going to read it, but it turned out I had to read it after all, it was picked as my September pick over in Western and Medieval Romance Lovers.
Worked to show how little Ranulf cared about her in comparison to what he had found with Reina at Clydon, and gave some closure about the reasons why he had hated that lady so.
This was one of the first romance novels that I ever read.
I just fell in love with all the characters and their author Johanna Lindsey.
my favorite part was how he Ranulf Fitz Hugh the hero of the story had to learn how to pleasure his wife Reina, and wasn't ashamed to admit it...
Okay he was more afraid of hurting her cause he was so big, but it was awesome how he was willing to get the help he needed for her.
True there is more to the book that I loved, but that was one of my favorite parts.
I had read some reviews about this book before I had started it and some said the the writing of the dialog really bothered them, so I was prepared to not really like the book.
However, it didn't bother me at all and I did really enjoy the book.
IMO, it is a differnt kind of Johanna Lindsey book in that there really wasn't any emotional drama.
The two main charcters made a choice to marry and made the best of the situation.
There was no huge misunderstandings, no cheating, no dire escapades.
3,5/5
След като баща й намира смъртта си по време на кръстоносните походи тя, тъй като не е нито омъжена, нито сгодена се оказва апетитна хапка за не малък брой мераклии които искат да я направят своя съпруга и да станат господари на всичко, което притежава.Така един ден крепостта на Рейна осъмва нападната от незнайни войни.
Ранулф е истински изумен, когато намира дома на дамата обграден от врагове, а щом ги побеждава, вместо на свой ред да обсади крепостта той се оказва посрещнат с отворени обятия.Скоро Ранулф научава, че в действителност Рейна не е била сгодена за мъжа, който го е изпратил да я отвлече и пред него има два пътя.
penguasa wilayah lain yang ingin mengusai Clydon dengan menikahinya.Ranulf, seorang Knight yang disewa oleh penguasa dari mana gitu, untuk membawa Reina untuk dinikahkan oleh penguasa itu datang ke Clydon saat kastil itu sedang diserang.
Reina yang mengira kalau bantuan sudah datang, merasa lega saat Ranulf dkk menolongnya.Ranulf, a giant knight yang tingginya lebih dari dua meter, serasa raksasa banget saat sedang bersama Reina.
Baeweh.) Adengan yang Lucunya itu, saat pengurus laki2 Reina yang seumuran dengannya itu seorang gay dan adegan dia bersama Ranulf itu lucu banget.
cerita mereka, cerita orang di kastil dan cerita Walter, teman Ranulf.Sedikit kekurangan, kenapa adegan pertama Ranulf harus saat dia bangun dari tidurnya dengan wanita lain di sebelahnya?
I never thought I would ever use the adjective sweet to describe one of Johanna Lindsey's books.
I've always had a love-hate relationship with her stories especially the older ones.
I found her heroes to be not heroes at all but chauvinistic pigs (most of them).
But this novel was a revelation!
I absolutely adored Ranulf!
At last, a medieval warrior who does not have the upper hand.
In this case, it is Reina who wields all the power in their relationship!
Their love was sweet and grew slowly but with so much affection this has to be my favorite JL book!
really good book
Enjoyable, but "Tender is the storm" is still my favorite J Lindsey book.
Oh, Reina and Ranulf....they are hilarious, in a medieval way, mind you but still, they are funny.Defy Not the Heart is entertaining even I'm pretty frustrated with some medieval traits and value but it's a medieval romance so yeah 4 stars for all funny and exasperated volley the couple throwing at each other and classic medieval plot of lord and lady. But one warning......both MC are not your typical medieval lord and lady, ha!
This is the one where she accuses the cat of farting on purpose, right? I remember almost dying with laughter over that scene. *ponders a re-read*
6/13/17 Ammy sale $2.49.
Dan lucu juga saat Ranulf menghukum Reina dengan memukul bokong nya yang menurut Ranulf mulus.Pada pertengahan cerita, aku sempat menganggap novel ini seperti tentang Buku Mengenai Bagaimana Bersetubuh Dengan Istri Agar Tidak Membunuhnya.
Yang kedua karena hubungan Walter dan Florette tidak diceritakan lebih dalam (tentu saja, karena novel ini bukan cerita mengenai mereka).
Dan melihat ucapan Ranulf saat itu, yang memohon Reina agar menyelamatkan Walter, sangat mengharukan, walau memang hanya Walter-lah yang terluka paling parah.(penasaran juga dengan Joining, apakah akan menarik seperti ini?).Sakura----------------(setelah baca Joining malah jadi kurang suka dengan yang ini -.-)
Fun, fulfilling and enjoyable romance novel.Good characters.
This book was similar to Lindsey’s other well done novels.Story brief: Reina’s father is wealthy.
Rothwell is an old, greedy man who hires Ranulf to kidnap Reina so he can marry her for the lands.
While traveling to Rothwell, Walter convinces Reina that she would be better off marrying Ranulf than Rothwell.
After she realizes this, both she and Walter then convince Ranulf of the same thing.
Ranulf and Reina get married and then start getting to know one another.
Defy Not the Heart features my favorite Lindsey hero—the gruff yet noble Ranulf Fitzhugh.
Set in medieval England (circa 1192), the castle of Lady Reina de Champeney is under seige.
In the hopes of forcing Lady Reina to wed, the dastardly Lord Rothwell has hired the brave and oh-so-buff Ranulf to kidnap the noblewoman.
Reina is a little unusual for a Lindsey heroine in that she is not “breathtakingly beautiful.” Instead, Reina is a diminutive but resolute heroine who quickly wins over the hearts of Ranulf and readers.
Una historia entretenida y romántica, aunque no sentí mucha conexión entre los protagonistas, no estaba mal ;)
3.5/5 Stars....maybe 4/5 starsJohanna Lindsay really knows how to weave a wonderful tale.
She has a way of writing a story that readers can't help but read and READ until it's done.I really liked the character of Ranulf who was at first annoying and rude and a huge ass but once Miss Reina came into his life he became a better person and oh man he's a big sweetheart.
Their relationship was really sweet!The reason why it's missing that ONE star is because of Johanna Lindsay spent so much time describing detail in this one.
It was truly wonderful.
The Characters are truly wonderful.
They were written with great personalitys.
I have read "most" of Johanna's Books.
I only have 4 more books to go and I'm done with all the books she have ever written.
and I read several different authors in between them and NOT once was there a gay guy in either one of her books, untill now.But enough about that.
This book was wonderful and Magnificent.
The Fighting, The Bitchy-ex lover of the Guy (THAT YOU WISH YOU COULD GO IN THE BOOK AND SMACK) and the Spicy, sassy Lady.
