https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/248871.Berserk_Vol_1
Berserk, Vol. 1 of 37 (Berserk #1), Kentaro MiuraThe philosophical battle between Guts (the Black Swordsman) and Griffith (White Hawk), freedom vs.
tranquility.
The story centers on the characters of Guts, a lone mercenary, and Griffith, the leader of a mercenary band called the "Band of the Hawk".
Themes of isolation, camaraderie, and the question of whether humanity is fundamentally good or evil pervade the story, as it explores both the best and worst of human nature.
Both the manga and anime are noted for their use of graphic violence and sexual content.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز هجدهم ماه جولای سال 2016 میلادیا.
Berserk: A Super-Dick Slaughterama the Whole Family Can Enjoy (Except Grandma and Grampa. And the Kids. And Probably the Significant Other. You Might Not Like if Either.) [NOTE: This is really a review of the entire series. Reviewing every single volume sounds like one of those repetitive, mindless exercises used to break down the ego of a subject prior to brainwashing. Explicit and possibly offensive images and language follow, so don't scroll down if that sort of thing makes you feel twitchy
The quality of the art in the second half of the series is light years ahead of the relatively crude renderings of volume 1, and there's been a gradual refinement to Miura's storytelling that comes with maturity, greater complexity and restraint, letting the tension build, much sharper character development and pacing.
While swords can always have phallic associations, it seems like Miura has to be conscious of the exaggerated super-dick fantasy he's illustrating every time Guts splits another enemy in two.
Guts might as well be swinging around a five foot long dildo:Each volume of Berserk goes by ridiculously fast considering the amount of effort it represents, with the cinematic pacing that is so different from European and American comics.
This review will be my review of the whole series.I think this is easily the best and most epic manga ever written.
I think this manga has been running for something like 18 years and the story just gets deeper and deeper.
I liked this manga so much I'm getting the Brand of the Sacrificed tattooed on my heart.
I hope everyone who loves comics will read this series at some point in there life and be as blown away as i was.
Obviously a big part of the charm is also the graphic depictions of people getting slaughtered in all sorts of disgusting ways, women getting raped, and demons looking like the stuff of feverish nightmares.
Since the Eclipse event, the only thing I wanted to see is Guts getting his final showdown with Griffith, but chances are I am never going to get it because Miura is busy playing Idolmaster and keeps throwing more shit between them to make sure they will never meet.
This is my first ever manga, and I really enjoyed it! And it was a super fast read! I've seen quite a bit of the anime and I really enjoyed how much more this added. Such a fun little read! I'll definitely be picking up Vol 2, later on.
Bloody gory dark fantasy. But don't underestimate this manga. This manga is not only selling gory scenes, but also there are some good promises in setting and characterizations. I don't know how the promises will be delivered, this series is still ongoing. When I write this review the series has been running for around 27 years.
Since I have about a month till season 6 of Game of Thrones starts I decided I'd revist the other emotionally abusive, horrifically violent, series that I'm obsessed with. AND This series isn't yet finished either, maybe I'm a masochist.

With the release this summer of the newest Berserk anime, I decided it was time to revisit the Manga.
It's fun going back to the earlier Berserk stories.
I forgot how different the original source material really is from the anime(s) they have made/are making.The Manga is a lot more intense, it's more graphic and doesn't really worry about pulling punches.
The entire volume is jam packed full of action and giant swords...or...well...full of action and one giant sword at least.The Berserk story is a pretty epic one and this first volume doesn't even scratch the surface of where things eventually go - but it's still a fun volume full of violence and carnage.Everything a Berserk fan needs, really.
I haven't read a lot of manga, but this was great stuff.
Berserk is manga set in medieval times.
It's straight-forward, good guy (who's kind of a dick) in pursuit of bad dudes doing bad things.
It has it's mysterious elements that I'm interested in getting to know, but it's really all about taking people out...including slicing horses in half...and the dude has a crazy crossbow that shoots like 10 at once.Not much more to say.
I blazed through it in about half an hour and my appetite is only just whetted.
When i read it for the first time, some years ago, I was really blown away.
Budella a colazione Prima si fanno saltare teste e solo dopo si procede con le domande...sempre che qualcuno abbia il coraggio di porle senza trovarsi eviscerato prima di subito.Mefistofelico e inesorabile come una sentenza, il mondo dell'incubo penetra nell'uomo senza trovare opposizioni di nessuna sorta.Poco da salvare in questo mondo, forse niente; ed eventuali salvatori dell'umanità sono solamente sciacalli in fuga, abiette figure mosse unicamente da corrosive vendette silenziose.
Era un oggetto troppo pesante per essere chiamato spada.Troppo spesso, troppo pesante e grezzo.Non era altro che un enorme blocco di ferro.BRIVIDI.
¡Impresionante! Fantasía oscura, un protagonista al que no le cabe una, demonios desagradables que comen gente y un escenario medieval... ¿Cómo carajo no me enteré de que existía este manga? Los dibujos son impresionantes y el tono oscuro y pesimista de la historia es fenomenal; definitivamente lo recomiendo y me voy a poner a leer los siguientes ☺(Gracias a Neo por la recomendación)
Ah, Berserk: manga that dwarfs all other manga.
The plot of Berserk is brutal and intricate, full of twists, turns and cliffhangers; the action is merciless, violent and gruesome; but the characters and their interactions are the crux that makes the story truly shine.
Also, the love/hate relationship between Guts and his best friend/arch-nemesis Griffith is the stuff of legends: a tragedy of epic proportions, full of tenderness, devotion, angst, betrayal and pain, with enough unresolved sexual tension to inflame the passions of a thousand nuns.
Anyways, this first volume is only so-so--great stuff is yet to come.
Here we follow Guts, the frowny badass with a giant sword, who kills a bunch of bad guys, gets caught and tortured for a little while, then breaks free and kills more bad guys.
He goes on a trip and is jumped by skeletons, who he beats up, while frowning.
He gets a fairy sidekick, who he frowns at.
He’s in pursuit of more bad guys, for reasons we don’t know, but for obvious motives: he’s going to beat them up.
From adaptations of the series, one knows there must be more to it, but this volume doesn’t have anything more to offer.
An awesome manga! I loved the art, the action and the mysterious character of the Black Swordsman Guts. Can't wait to read more of the series.
This manga has violence , in its unadulterated form .
Bloody , gory , gut-punching kind of violence .
Berserk has a mercenary , Guts , as its protagonist .
And we follow Guts on his bloodstained journey for vengeance .
Guts is despicable .
And Guts takes shady to a whole new level .
Cheers to the creator Kentaro Miura .
Berserk is the first manga I've read .
I do read quite a number of comics but never tried manga before .
Miura's illustrations are chilling(in a nice way) though sophisticated .
Berserk is an epic story of a lone man struggling against overwhelming, impossible odds, rebelling against the literal hand of fate.
In fact, the story itself doesn't seem like anything special until the Golden Age Arc, around Volume 4.
The artwork, too, becomes increasingly intricate, lush, and mind-blowingly beautiful.The story boils down to this: Guts is destined to be a loser.
This fellowship brings some warmth and humanity back to Guts, and the heavy darkness of the continuing storyline somehow seems to hang lighter.
Makes me wonder if Miura hasn't perhaps worked out some personal demons as the series progressed, and now he's in a better place.
Por que desde la primera pagina nos vamos a topar con sexo y demonios.
2. El protagonista un espadachín negro carga una espada más enorme que el que le servirá para romper huesos, liberar almas y enfrentar bestias demoníacas.
4. Vamos a encontrar mucha sangre, peleas con caballeros, espíritus que no pueden descansar y bandalos, así que amantes de la adrenalina esta historia es para ustedes.
5. Posesiones demoníacas y marcas (estigmas) le dan un toque misterioso a la vida de esta historia.6.
El elfo que aparece acompañando a nuestro protagonista le da el equilibrio cómico y sensible a esta historia.
Berserk is an over-the-top splatter fest. While this is lots of fun, don't expect it to evolve much past that. The main character goes somewhere, brutally murders a ton of guys, and then goes somewhere else to repeat the process. If I had read this when I was a teen I probably would have loved it.
A little too violent for me, but I thought it was well drawn and there was lots of comic relief with the little elf, Puck.This is the story of a man with a brand.
We have the Inquisition, we have castles and dungeons and man-eating monsters who are almost invincible.
The man has no name but Puck calls him Guts.
(Note: Apparently, having read other reviews, his name is Guts.) He seems out for revenge.
(Note: I've seen in other reviews that the series gets better so I might read further in the future.)I read this one as it crops up in lists of must-read manga.
An excellent manga book which I picked up as a recommendation from Sarah. I'm very intrigued and will start to look at the rest of the series.I just wish it was in colour!
amazing as expected there are once in a life time stories and berserk is one of them the potential behind this simple manga the suspense the mystery of it all what is a behelit?what is the gods hand?why demons are trying to kill guts?how can you pencil pages so disgusting yet so beautifuland using the inquisition trials was a very smart movei love it cant wait to read more
this is like lord of the rings of manga. I gotta dig it to educate (and respect) myself
This is merely an introduction to Berserk but wow.
WOW.
Guts is probably one of the most interesting characters I've come across.
Obviously this guy's got some huge messed up history.
This, I believe is the Dark Fantasy I have always been looking for.
Stuff that just makes me think "What the hell kind of a world does Guts live in?".
That's the stuff I've been looking for.
I was immediately hooked when (view spoiler)[Guts was having sex with that nasty monster-lady.
The very first pages (hide spoiler)].
Kentaro Miura sure knows how to grab his audience's attention.
He knows what they want.
Kanlı, enteresan, bazen korkutucu, mide bulandırıcı ama güzel.
After the hype, I was expecting something at least intriguing.
I don't usually read middle-age-esque fantasy manga with lots of fighting & gore & violence.Guts is on a quest to kill demons and other despicable creatures, however he's not the knight in shining armor, he couldn't care less about casualties and innocent people killed in the process.
I'm curious to see where his arc will go.I love Puck, they're an elf and they are as shook with Guts ruthlessness as I am.This volume was originally published in 1990 and it's the oldest manga I've read as of today.
I want to see what happens next.CW: gore, violence, graphic depiction of them
...I...I...don't know what to say😭😭😭 but it is so good, much depressing at the same time.
