https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/350684.Whitney_My_Love
What she doesn’t know, and doesn’t find out for awhile, is that her father has betrothed her to another man.Whitney returns home and immediately begins going out into Society where she meets one Clayton Westmorland who just happens to live but a few miles away from her.
I suppose I can imagine that he changed because he realized how important she was to him and if he wanted to keep her he would have to change, but as a reader I need more than that – I needed to be able to empathize with him but that just wasn’t there and it is for this reason and this reason only that I was firmly convinced that Whitney, My Love was deserving of a 3.5 star rating from me rather than the 4 it would have gotten had Clayton’s character been as fully developed as Whitney’s had been.
I was a bottomless romance pit as a teen, I read everything and loved it all( Including books that now make me gag); until I read this.
It mentally scarred me at 16 so much, that I didn't touch a historical romance again until I was 25.The entire book our hero's either acting from selfish ulterior motives, paranoid distrust (that results in cruelty), or 'let's make this all about me' guilt = /.
The book ended with me disgusted about how he broke Whitney's spirit with all the emotional abuse and since none of his issues trusting her are ever resolved the HEA is unbelievable.
There have been 3 other books I did buy in paperback since I started my kindle obsession and in the end I gave in and got this one.I hadn't really read reviews so was expecting a nice, gentle, Historical romance.
"Oh my God, little one," Clayton whispered in his heart.
"Clayton," she said softly, her voice threaded with tears, "When Vanessa asked about my accomplishments tonight, I forgot to mention that I do have one.
"What splendid accomplishments is that, little one?" Clayton asked.Her shoulders hunched forward and began to shake."I made you love me," she whispered brokenly."Somehow, some way, I actually made you love me."
I mean, Clayton, the hero, was always a bit of an asshat what with the forced marriage thing, but that being said, this is an historical romance, so that is sort of expected.Then there's the whole Clayton beating Whitney aspect, which, again historical romance, things like that sometimes happen.
It was in 'Outlander' and in the first book of this series, but neither of those beatings were with a riding crop nor were they for such stupid reasons such as the one in 'Whitney, My Love'.
It's all right for characters to have flaws.
I'm sorry but I just can't like this book. I couldn't get past either the rape or the abuse scenes (yes, it barely hurt her, but that is not the point) and the fact that he continuously distrusted her and emotionally abused her IMO. Even though, intellectually, I could understand why the heroine (and readers) would be able to redeem the hero and love him, emotionally, it left me disgusted. Its one of those love-it-or-hate-it books and it just didn't do it for me. I don't believe a rape victim could ever find anything to love about her rapists.
She was a challenge to our hero so he goes behind her back and makes a deal with her father for her hand.
Meanwhile, she is going through hell with her conflicting emotions for the hero Clayton and her unexplored feelings for her childhood crush (who is a complete jerk).
Will their love be enough to overcome this mistake!?
READ THE BOOK AND FIND OUT!I truly feel that this is an epic love story that will leave you breathless.
Swoon!This book was just well written and a total MUST READ for those who love historical.
“Missing you?” she giggled incredulously. “I could cheerfully murder you.” It was while reading this novel, that I decided I needed an epic romance shelf. I mean, why can fantasy be categorized as epic, and yet romance is just "romance?"Whitney, My Love had about as many pages as a GOT novel, and every page was just so good.I read romance for the thrill of falling in love, the passion of jealousy, the excitement of being intimate for the first time, and sometimes for the heartbreak and the angs
I mean, why can fantasy be categorized as epic, and yet romance is just "romance?"Whitney, My Love had about as many pages as a GOT novel, and every page was just so good.I read romance for the thrill of falling in love, the passion of jealousy, the excitement of being intimate for the first time, and sometimes for the heartbreak and the angst it brings with it.
The thing I loved about this story, is there might have been extreme attraction from the hero's side, but the heroine doesn't even notice him for a while.
*Edited 8/3/2016: Added link to review of book 2.  Whitney My Love - [Westmoreland Saga 02] - By Judith McNaught Several days after finishing the 2nd book in the Westmoreland series, I still had no idea what to say. This book made me feel such a wide range of emotions that I truly didn’t know what to make of it. First I was charmed, then frustrated; the next Chapter I was laughing; a few pages later I was enraged. After one too many plunges from the highest of highs to the lowest of lows, I alm
Below, are the results of my scientific exploration of: Whitney My Love, by Judith McNaught.What did I think of Whitney My Love, by Judith McNaught?Whitney My Love, is a one star read because Clayton Westmoreland, the Duke of Claymore (H), is a Grade A Asshole.To accurately determine if the H is, indeed, a Grade A Asshole, I read the following scenes to my husband:(view spoiler)[p.626: H gets his twat in a knot over a rumor that h is engaged to OM.p.634: H believes a jealous rival’s lie about h’s lack of purity.p.636:.
I’m also ignoring my Hypothesis, which suggests a one star rating if the hero is an Asshole; because asshole factor aside, I still liked Whitney My Love.
5 STARS!!!! OUTSTANDING!!!!!!![image error]   “Not even in my weakest moment have I considered letting you go.” And here is yet another example of PERFECTION in romance. Yes, Judith McNaught has completely captivated me, again. I cannot say enough about these fabulously entertaining romances. From beginning to end, I was glued to the pages, devouring every word with rapt anticipation. The dialogue between the characters was so flawlessly achieved, it was like verbal sword fighting between equall
Until he sees her in Paris, at a Masquerade ball, surrounded by the attentions of others, Miss Whitney Stone catches his interest, like no other woman he has encountered before.
Feeling a bit arrogant of his position and his appearance, the duke approached Miss Stone, only to be rejected quite intensely after he lured her onto a balcony, and kissed her against her will.
This story was so compelling and addictive, and the verbal combat so intense, my emotions were beaten bloody by the end.
There were so many times when I felt like there is NO POSSIBLE WAY she is going to get these two characters together in the end.
4.5 Stars!I have NEVER had a book take me on such an emotional rollercoaster.
I've never felt so many emotions for a hero.
Whitney, My Love is filled with everything I look for...the dashing hero, the untamed, witty heroine, the developed plots with subplots, interesting secondary characters, the deep, effecting romance.
Beware, if you're looking for that fluffy, gentle historical read then this book is not for you.
This is a tale of lust, vengeance, jealousy, selfishness and manipulations...but it's romance at the core!If you're an historical lover then this is a must read and if you're a lover of deep, epic romances that will ruin and wreck you, then this is a must read for you as well...I say no more.
Richard Armitage as Clayton Westmoreland AAAHHHH!!!
I've discovered I have a first edition vintage copy of this book! And since I read this when the dinosaurs roamed the earth ( my teen years ) and can't remember shit..... It's up for an e-reread. ❤️
But even as his smoldering passion seduces her into a gathering storm of desire, Whitney cannot -- and will not -- relinquish her dream of perfect love.Do you know what this book was like?
She makes me want to get down on my knees and sprout poetic declarations of love.Whitney is the most defiant and wilful Judith McNaught heroine, yet there's an element of vulnerability about her that makes you stop and think before you start hating on her.
At the end of the day, no one does epic love quite like Judith McNaught.
This book was four stars right until Whitney discovered Clayton's identity.
If we're not convinced of his motivation, however, we at least have a complete grasp of the emotions that move Clayton, thanks to McNaught's talent with emotion.My main gripe with the book is that this same conflict is repeated, if not verbatim then close enough, twice more before the book ends.
The hero spends the first half of the book pursuing the heroine, while he seems to spend the second half of the book making Whitney grovel (almost literally) and pay in every conceivable way for everything, including the crimes she is wrongfully accused of.
These category ratings are random and again generated purely by emotion, mostly anger.Writing: 4 stars Heroine: 3 starsHero: 1 starUse of repetitive drama plot devices: 2 starsChemistry: 3 starsStoryline: 2 starsCharacter development: 3 stars (begrudging)Side characters: 4 starsThe book started somewhat slow with some setting up but there was enough to engage me.
On the other side, it is deaf, passionate, cruel and disloyal.Throughout I mostly liked Whitney but she was weak in one aspect that I fear would be her downfall beyond the end of the book.
However, I rarely felt emotions this strong over a book and therefore the writing is gifted.
Willingly."-Whitney to Clayton after realizing that she loves him and wants him to marry her, and not Vanessa."Don't you dare disobey me," he hissed, his fingers clamping on her upper arm as he marched her away from the curious grooms and stablekeepers."Disobey you?!" she repeated, stamping her foot.
In a silky, menacing voice, her said, "Do you remember what I told you would happen if you dared to disobey me again, Whitney?"He had threatened to lock her in her rooms until her baby was born.
Why was it so different from the first one in this series (A Kingdom of Dreams)?First of all, the "hero." I hated him from cover to cover.
That he never truly atoned for, nor redeemed himself enough for the hurt he caused the heroine - and THAT is a crucial thing when the hero hurts the heroine in a capital way.
She went from being hurt and humiliated by the hero in one page to surrendering to him the next, and it was almost sad.
Sure, several of the situations where the hero hurt her were due to misunderstandings.
This review can also be found at Romantic Historical Reviews. Having just closed the book (well, browser, it was an eBook) on Whitney, My Love, I'm left with so many feelings, some of them a little conflicted. I'd only just discovered Judith McNaught's writing — quite literally — having read Kingdom of Dreams a few days ago but I couldn't resist diving right into the second in her  Westmoreland Saga  expecting nothing and yet, after devouring and loving book one, everything.McNaught's stories ar
She is still of a mind to marry Paul and the interactions that play out as Clayton tries to court her and Whitney resists are easily the best part of the book.McNaught is able, with the considerable length of her books, to fully develop her characters.
I'm a total sucker for a hate to love romance and McNaught's characters take it quite a few steps further, see-sawing through so many ups and downs it visits utter emotional havoc on the reader.
Someone asked why I didn't stop reading, but I was so invested after 300 pages that I had to see it through to the end.
Instead of getting to know her and asking her, he went to her father and paid off all his debt in exchange for his signature on a betrothal contract promising Whitney's hand in marriage.
You know something's going to happen and Clayton will get the letter and then all hell will break loose." And that's exactly what happened.Even after they were married, Clayton drew his own conclusions about an event without speaking to Whitney and completely turned on her.
My tolerance for bullshit sure has dwindled :~{A wonderfully entertaining historical romance, Whitney, My Love is Judith McNaught's first and best-loved book, part of her "Westmoreland" saga.
Even if you sometimes want to throw the book down in frustration at yet another contrived Big Misunderstanding that you could see coming a mile away, and the sudden stupidity and vileness of characters you had grown to love and root for until then, you are still compelled to continue because McNaught manages to make you care so deeply for her characters that you want to ride on the journey with them til the end.
@ Ami:'Dina, kinda knowing your tastes and what you "tolerate," I'll put my money down right now that you will not enjoy "Whitney My Love." ;) I read this book when I was about 24 or so and remember it as a "keeper" then.
Clayton had the classic "daddy" thing going with Whitney IMO, and even nicknamed her "little one" and called her it throughout the book [Oow - Ick!
- I just can't handle this type of historical romance that isn't remotely connected to the time it claims to take place in, and I don't really understand what people like about them.
Whitney is a terrible version of a bad wish-fulfillment character: she is treated poorly but awesome, she is super hot but doesn't know it, she isn't like all the other dull women, she is spirited!
Then Whitney and her aunt - and I almost can't believe this is happening in this book - share in complaining about how stupid romance novels and the people who read them are.
I read this book because the controversy surrounding it, plus Clayton Westmoreland's ubiquitous appearance on any "A-hole Heroes" list/discussion, had me curious just what was between the covers.
In fact, it irritated me no end later on when a detail of it was used to prolong yet another "misunderstanding" between the hero and heroine.
Those three characteristics were repeated ad nauseum, so it pretty much overwhelmed all else about him.I'm glad I read it to see what all the fuss was about, and I like McNaught's style, but I'm hoping that her heroes and heroines are far better in later books.
Who I grew to love.And I can’t go into all those situations Whitney is put in, there are just to many, but I can say: she annoyed me because of her pining for Paul.
Yeah, it just doesn’t do for me, because I think: well, yes, I want women to have been strong for the last 2000 years, too, but sorry.
Many readers hate Clayton for that, but also for the scene where he takes Whitney unwillingly.
And the reader doesn’t want this happening to the main characters, because of their sanctious status in the novel.
La historia me ha gustado, pero lo valoro con una estrellita menos porque han habido situaciones que no me han gustado, los enfados de Clayton y sus "castigos" cuando ha creido cosas que no eran reales no me han parecido normales y sobre todo me han parecido exagerados y de mal gusto.Por lo demas, la historia muy interesante.
I finished this book last night after a marathon reading (almost half the book). I loved the heroine. Whitney has so many in common with Scarlett O'Hara but she is certainly much more likeable. I wanted to slap Clayton myself a time or two because he was acting like an obnoxious bastard, even a gorgeous one. I loved Stephen. So smart and likeable. Can't wait to start his story...
Another fantastic, angst filled read by JM.Now on to Stephen book....
An all-time fav that I loved so much I even bought it in hardback; nevertheless, it just didn't hold up through the years when I re-read it last year. Clayton was too much of an a$$hat, especially over the last Big Misunderstanding. Still, it is a roller-coaster ride for those that like it. I remember feeling Clayton had so much potential and  wanting  for him to be just a little bit different so I could like him a little bit more. (At times, he appears as two different men.) This is one of thos
An all-time fav that I loved so much I even bought it in hardback; nevertheless, it just didn't hold up through the years when I re-read it last year.
I remember feeling Clayton had so much potential and 
for him to be just a little bit different so I could like him a little bit more.
(At times, he appears as two different men.) This is one of those books, unlike The Flame and the Flower, that makes me question my past romance tastes.
I remember reading this a couple of times back then and it made me cry.
5+++++ magical, unforgettable, I have no words stars from me  I don’t pretend to persuade you that Judith MacNaught is the new Jane Austen or Jane Eyre but after reading Whitney my love let me consider her writing and her stories as a classic one. Oh, yes this is how much I loved this book. As I can see from other people’s reviews there are a lot of controversial comments about this book but let me explain the reasons why I adored it. This is me. Give me a haters to lovers romance, strong, full
A fantastic ride full of emotions, misunderstandings, passion, tears, fun, anger and a great romance that proves that at the end of the day love conquers all "I hated you from the first moment I met you …""I’m very sorry to hear that." He said softly.
Excuse me you girls spend your lives being in love with a movie character like rett buttler do you think that a few misunderstandings would prevent me from loving this man.
Definitely Clayton comported like a jerk in many occasions but I think no one stayed emotionless with his love declare to Whitney.
This is one of those classic historical romances -- which people love or hate or love to hate -- that I have never gotten around to reading because it wasn't available in Kindle format. Now it is, so I have no excuse.
