https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23754.Preludes_Nocturnes
But rather than just my usual messy gush about how I love some story, I got permission from the publisher to re-print part of my introduction I wrote.Share and enjoy...**(What follows is an excerpt from the intro)**I’ll admit, I’m at a bit of a loss as to what to do here.If you’ve already read Sandman, what can I tell you that you don’t already know deep in the secret corners of your heart?
If you haven’t read this book, and are, perhaps, standing in a bookstore or a comic shop, wondering if it’s worth your time, what I can say to convince you?
Secondly, I've read the Sandman series several times before.
I think it's been a full ten years since the last time I've read this series.
The first thing that I notice is that the art is different that I remember.
But I have to say, reading through this time they kinda surprised me.
You see, I think of the Sandman series as being...
I don't care if you don't read comics, you should read this series.
And if you *do* read comics, you cannot consider yourself well-read until you have Sandman under your belt.
At worst, the result is amusing, or odd; at best, it is something original, something new.Not long ago, it occurred to me that—being too much a creature of words—I had neglected an obvious example of an emerging genre: the comic book of the late 80's, on its way to becoming the “graphic novel.” Since I'm already in love with Gaiman's American Gods, I decided to begin with The Sandman.I am glad I did.
Mr Gaiman, thank you for the dream.  See what I did there? But in all fairness this is a dream. This comic is just everything I want a comic to be. It’s dark and brutal; it’s profound and sophisticated: it’s imaginative and creative. I just love everything about it. It’s superb. Let’s begin with the characters: Dream So the protagonist is a god, a very old god. And he represents one of the key elements of life itself: hope. He is everything the mind longs for. He is the reason to carry on living
Mr Gaiman, thank you for the dream.
But in all fairness this is a dream.
Let’s begin with the characters:
Dream
Dream walks in the darkness.
As Dream seeks the stolen relics of his power, the depth of this world is slowly revealed.
Although Lucifer isn’t a major character in this volume, I do feel like he is being forshadowed as a later antagonist in this series.
I love the rendition of Lucifer here.
Lucifer and Dream philosophising the sovereignty of hell?
She’s Dream’s sister and is rather pissed off that he didn’t call on her for help.
FanTABulous preluDe! Creative Team:Writer: Neil GaimanIllustrators: Sam Kieth, Mike Dringenberg & Malcolm Jones IIICovers: Dave McKeanLetterer: Todd Klein A PRELUdE TO dREAM  It is NEVER “only a dream”, John Constantine. Definitely there is stuff that if you read again, you’ll get it differently, but even so, you’ll get it differently if you re-read it again in a different order.I am re-reading again the first four TPBs of The Sandman since I was able to buy the rest of TPBs of the series,
Neil Gaiman commented at the end of The High Cost of Living that Death can serve as an introduction to The Sandman and he was right.
I guess he knows something about it since he’s the author (he,he,he).But, seriously, now that I read Death: The High Cost of Living first of re-engaging into The Sandman, I was able to recognize some characters and getting the importance of comments made there.
And that I was able to appreciate and understanding certain scenes.So, indeed this is a prelude to The Sandman, since Neil Gaiman is just establishing the general scenario where he will develop the story in the following TPBs.
I need to admit something. I've never "gotten" Neil Gaiman's books. They confuse the hell out of me. I really never know where he is going with a story. *gasp* This one was some freaky ass shit. Some old guy wants to perform a ceremony to capture "Death". Yeah..okay.Anyways, he ends up capturing our guy Dream. Dream bides his time. Then he wants his domain back. Then some more freaky ass shit goes down.  I see a whole lot of fangirls and boys on these books. Don't kill me yet. I have another on
I need to admit something. I've never "gotten" Neil Gaiman's books. They confuse the hell out of me. I really never know where he is going with a story. *gasp*
  This one was some freaky ass shit. Some old guy wants to perform a ceremony to capture "Death". Yeah..okay.Anyways, he ends up capturing our guy Dream. Dream bides his time. Then he wants his domain back. Then some more freaky ass shit goes down.
  
  I see a whole lot of fangirls and boys on these books. Don't kill me yet. I have another one to read. But I'm skeered...
Neil Gaiman is a bit of an black sheep to me.
All this despite of the fact that his most popular works are in general the kinds I have no interest, no passion, no need to have on my reading list.But he is Neil Gaiman.
First volume of The Sandman did not live up to my enormous, perhaps too high and hyped up, expectations, and I in many places felt as if Gaiman did not do as good as he could do.
One of those graphic novels that are so famous and hyped up that it makes you want to read them.
I am more disappointed than entertained.I've read 2 novels of Neil Gaiman.
There were too many characters (both new and recycled) so some ended up flat and boring.
The main character was not bad, but like I said, he became a bit flat and boring.
The overall story was actually interesting, so I'll see if it improves in the second volume.3/5 stars.
Still disappointed in Gaiman, but hopefully the second volume would be an improvement over this.
Yes, indeed...graphic novels are Neil Gaiman’s best form.Sleep of the Just – This may be the greatest first issue of a comic ever written.
The capture of Morpheus/Dream/Sandman (or whichever name of his you prefer), the sleeping sickness, his inevitable (and beautifully patient) escape and vengeance guarantees that any fan of fantasy or comic books or fantasy and comic books must continue with the series.
Imperfect Hosts is where this all begins to happen.Dream A Little Dream of Me – A weakened and vulnerable Morpheus is busy looking for his sandbag, the first of the three stolen artefacts that can restore him to his former splendour and power.
The end of universes, Gods, worlds...
And what will you be then, Dreamlord?""I am hope."This is my favourite quote from this book, and one of my favourite quotes in general.
Morpheus, one of the Endless, master of Dreams, has been kidnapped, and once he breaks free, well, things aren't as he left them.
It's an enthralling and entertaining journey, that introduces a lot of characters, places and plots that will be revisited later.
I enjoy Morpheus a lot as a character.
It's creative, the art is to die for, and it manages to be both dark and hopeful at the same time.
Well, most of the time...
Esta es la primera novela gráfica de estilo occidental que leí y también es el primer comic que leí, dejando de lado a Condorito así que mi opinión tal vez no sea la más calificada en el tema, pero si te interesa, aquí va….Antes de empezar a leerlo Como la historia está dividida en siete Capítulos, mi reseña la dividiré en siete 1.
Anfitriones imperfectos sigo algo perdido, aunque mi entusiasmo no ha disminuido, empiezan a aparecer otros personajes como los sirvientes del Señor del sueño y Las Parcas, con ellas finalmente veo un camino y un propósito en la historia.
Upon Dream’s release he must embark on a journey to retrieve his tools before the world falls into turmoil.I’ve been so psyched to read the Sandman series since I first heard about it on bookstagram.
We get to meet Dream aka Morpheus aka The Sandman (choose whichever name you prefer) and as a character, I find him incredibly intriguing.
We also meet a few other characters who you get the impression are going to become huge players within the series – his sister Death and then Lucifer himself.
It’s gory and graphic and you won’t want to stop reading until you’re done.
I first read this a couple of years ago, and it was one of the first graphic novels I read.
It seemed so incredibly dark when I first read it.
Since that time, I’ve read many more graphic novels, most of which have been dark.
Yes. Yes, I do.The plot of the first few issues didn’t bother me.
That issue remains one of the darkest things I’ve ever read.
You can tell when reading Sandman that it’s written by a novelist.
The writing is much more dense than that to which I’ve become accustomed.
You can also tell that it was written decades ago.
Gaiman's works always have depth and much more stuff going on than what the blurb normally says.So, I finally have gotten around to picking up one of his most hyped books or it sounds better when put this way, one of the most hyped graphic novels of all time, The Sandman.
At times, there was a lot happening in the graphic novel and it was really hard to follow because after Sandman's capture and his tools going missing, people don't have proper dreams.
In the foreword and the afterword, both the editor and Gaiman indicated that this isn't the strongest volume in the Sandman series; Gaiman was still finding his vision for the series, it's essentially a fetch quest, etc. I'm inclined to agree with them, although it was still enjoyable (as any video game fan will tell you, a fetch quest can still be fun, but it's not the strongest narrative device). I'm halfway through Volume 2: The Doll's House and I'm already finding the story much more interesting. Preludes and Nocturnes is a good introduction, but not much more than that.
Decided to re-read this since my library had it.
I haven't read this since the 90s.
I don't remember anything about it so far.
It's kind of like all brand new and sparkly.
And creepy.
Yes, definitely creepy, in a good way.And now here's a random Bowie gif that reminded me of this for some reason:I'm keeping my original rating.
I like how he worked a few superheroes into it and (view spoiler)[his goth sister ended up being Death.
(hide spoiler)] This is adult comics at its best, for sure.
So far, I much prefer Gaiman's Sandman to any of his full-length books.
(do people still say cool?) Preludes & Nocturnes is the first of twelve in THE SANDMAN series that I have put off reading far too long.....It begins June 6, 1916 in Wych Cross, England.....In an attempt to capture and bind DEATH to achieve immortality, the creepy looking and evil Daemon King, Roderick Burgess mistakenly apprehends her brother DREAM instead.....DREAM (Morpheus) is robbed of his powers, but will not talk....."Confined in a glass box for three score years and ten.
Goth Girl DEATH is so cool....and oh how she captures Franklin!Creepy tricks and treats throughout with wonderful illustrations and Neil Gaiman for an author equals a great read!
I liked the beginning, when Dream was captured. The mystical elements held my attention. However, the middle of it kind of grossed me out. Especially the part in with Dee in the diner. EWWWW. The end of Preludes and Nocturnes totally made up for it, though. I loved Death! How cool is she?! Whoever came up with the idea to make Death a peppy little goth girl was a genius!
Taking a cue from Zelazny’s Amber chronicles Gaiman then built up a backstory for Morpheus, the godlike king of dreams, and made him part of a fractious and dysfunctional family known as ‘the Endless’…though most of that is (with one major exception) only alluded to in hints and asides in the first story arc and will be developed more fully later in the series, ultimately becoming the lynchpin of the tale of this version of the Sandman.
It seemed to stumble about for a short while as 70 years of imprisonment turned a very old god into a shadow, but once he was released, we had the real power of myth awaken and we suddenly had a Quest to Regain Powerful Artifacts, including John Constantine representing normal human worlds, Satan representing hell, and Doctor Dee representing dreams all made perfectly real.
Each success returned Dream to his former glory and established a truly epic worldbuilding experience.If everything is possible, then what is necessary?The answer?
Possibly.Oh hell, I know what's going to happen later.
Pek çok şarkı ve mitteyse Sandman…Sandman, Neil Gaiman’ın magnum opusu olduğu kadar, DC’nin bugün efsaneleşmiş pek çok eserini bastığı Vertigo markasının kuruluşunda da bir kırılma noktası.
Shakespeare esinli replikleri ve sayısız göndermesiyle edebi olduğu kadar, ebedi de… Tıpkı kendisinin de Sonsuz oluşu gibi.Her şey insanın açgözlülüğü ve hırsıyla başlıyor; tıpkı diğer pek çok hikâyede olduğu gibi.
Hatta pek çok kutsal kitapta da olduğu gibi, değil mi?
Çünkü Sandman’in bu ilk cildinde Homeros’un Odysseia’sından İncil’e; John Milton’ın Kayıp Cenneti’nden Shakespeare’in Julius Caeser ve Macbeth oyunlarına; Dante’nin Cehennem’inden (Inferno) Mary Poppins’e kadar uzun bir yol var.Gaiman, tüm bunları Rüya’nın kâbuslar ve düşlerle bezeli cildine öyle bir işlemiş ki, biz okurlar onun büyülü gerçekliğinde âdeta uykuya dalıyor ve düş aleminin bir parçası oluyoruz.Biliyoruz ki Sandman’in yolculuğu burada kalmayacak.
I really enjoyed this one, although some parts were pretty grotesque and hard to take. The story was very interesting, philosophical at times, and I'm looking forward to reading the rest of the series. I found it quite funny that the Dream Lord resembles Neil Gaiman so much!
POPSugar Reading Challenge: #39.
The first book in a series I haven't read before The air is musty, tired, old, it smells of lost dreams and rotten fabric.
I would have to sell my kidney and part of my liver to acquire this.
Fortunately, I have a friend who has a copy, so my organs are safe.
Now, whether or not he sold his organs to buy this is unknown to me, but I am glad he has the book.
Now, I am no longer a Gaiman virgin; I've read a fair few of his riveting stories.
And yet, his knowledge,
Mortals, belonging to the Order of Ancient Mysteries, more specifically, Roderick Burgess, Lord Magus of the Order, accidentally captures Dream, in his attempt to capture his older sister Death and become all-powerful.
Roderick Burgess's waking dreams are full of the power and the glory.
I was...I am...the Lord of this realm of Dream and Nightmare."
And of course, full of his dreams to become the king of the world.
Death, Dream's older sister, finally makes an appearance.
"Said Tweedledum, "When you're only one of the things in his dream, you know very well you're not real.""
Γενικά δεν διαβάζω κόμικ.....και είναι κάτι το οποίο κάποια στιγμή ήθελα να αλλάξει αλλά ποτέ μέχρι τώρα δεν βρήκα κάτι που να με κάνει να θέλω να το διαβάσω.
Λίγο τα διθυραμβικά σχόλια, λίγο η θεματική του (οτιδήποτε έχει να κάνει με όνειρα για κάποιο λόγο με εξιτάρει) και λίγο περισσότερο το ότι το έχει γράψει ο Neil Gaiman με έκαναν να το αναζητήσω και τελικά να το διαβάσω (φυσικά η μετάβαση από το ένα στάδιο στο άλλο πήρε καιρό).
Πέρασα χρόνο χαζεύοντας τις εικόνες του και άνετα με φαντάζομαι στο μέλλον να το ξαναδιαβάζω!Σίγουρα είναι κάτι που προτείνω και σίγουρα πολύ σύντομα θα πιάσω και το επόμενο!
While Gaiman references earlier incarnations of the character like the 1930s Wesley Dodds Sandman (Dream’s helm looks a lot like Dodds’ gas mask), and a dream sequence drawn in a Jack Kirby style (a nod to the 1970s Kirby Sandman), Gaiman’s Sandman is decidedly more modern and set in a richly imaginative world.
Sandman Vol 1 might not be a great comic but it leads into a great series and, if you weren’t that impressed after reading this and was wondering what all the fuss is about, keep going because it gets a lot better very quickly.
Sencillamente espectacular!!!! Deseando empezar el volumen 2
Harika çeviri, harika baskı, harika kurgu.Neil Gaiman bize Sandman’i sunarken peşi sıra bir o kadar da birikim getirmiş. Çünkü Sandman’in bu ilk cildinde Homeros’un Odysseia’sından İncil’e; John Milton’ın Kayıp Cenneti’nden Shakespeare’in Julius Caeser ve Macbeth oyunlarına; Dante’nin Cehennem’inden (Inferno) Mary Poppins’e kadar uzun bir yol var.Edebi olduğu kadar "ebedi" de bir eser. İyi ki Elif Ersavcı çevirmiş de repliklerin şiirselliğini yitirmemişiz. Kendisine tekrar hayran kaldım.
There really is not much to say besides how much I loved this graphic novel from beginning to end.
The world has dealt with a sleep sickness and Dream being locked away has actually affected more things than even he knows.Volume 1 really just showcases Dream going forth and trying to find his sandbag, helmet, and a ruby.We get to follow Dream as he meets with characters like John Constantine, Etrigan the Demon, Morningstar (Lucifer), his sister Death, and even characters from Batman via Arkham Asylum.
I think my favorite part honestly was when Dream and Death went on a little tour.
At first I wasn't sure if this was going to be for me.
It starts off slow, weird, lots of words but very little meaning connecting for me.
Then...after issue 2, we get into the goods.
You know death right?
You know Lucifer right?
At first it seems like each story would be it's own but by issue 4 it starts to connect and really speed up.
I also loved Death and way different than what I expected.
Once it connects it makes the start better but I won't lie.
The last 3 issues were so good I couldn't stop reading.
Not being well versed in comic book lore, I probably missed a lot of references to charatcers and events from the DC universe, but not enough to make the plot hard to follow.Preludes and Nocturnes is just the opening gambit of what promises to be a very interesting journey.
I liked Gaiman writing, but the graphic artists were uneven.
I particularly disliked the last 4 books in the sequence for the blocky, unpolished look.
I felt like I was looking sometimes at the sketchboards for the storyline instead of at the finished product.
I browsed through later books in the series and I know things improve, so I'm really looking forward to continuing with it.
