https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18293427-the-storied-life-of-a-j-fikry
His wife- Nic- was the people person, the one that kept the bookstore running, the love of his life- and now she is dead- killed in a car accident a year and a half ago......For the last year and a half A.J. has been barely getting by- he drinks too much, lives on frozen dinners, has stopped exercising, pushes people away, and is even grumpy to his staff and customers...but at least he has a plan- Sell the bookstore and auction off his copy of Tamerlane.
THE STORIED LIFE OF A.J. FIKRY is a story of love, loss, and second chances.
Then comes Chapter 3 and its plot twist, so coyly avoided by the jacket blurb but so central to the plot that I hardly think it’s worth calling it a spoiler: (view spoiler)[widower A.J. adopts Maya, a little girl abandoned in the store’s children’s section by her mother, a suicidal Harvard student.
As the novel continues, it becomes more and more like a YA romance, especially with the increasing focus on (view spoiler)[Maya, who has unrealistically precocious speech and creative writing (hide spoiler)].The disastrous event A.J. holds with the author of Amelia’s favorite memoir is good fun, but in general I didn’t much enjoy the last two-thirds of the book.
Every word the right one and exactly where it should be. That's basically the highest compliment I can give... ...and I am truly glad that it didn't took me so long to read it!!! The words you can't find, you borrow...  Maybe I could find the words but honestly, that first quote from this wonderful book was the right way to compliment it. And to do that, well I quote a second one too. And you will find several quotes in this review since honestly, this is one of the most quotable novels that I
Maybe I could find the words but honestly, that first quote from this wonderful book was the right way to compliment it.
Definitely, I want to believe that about this wonderful book, while it was published until this year (2014), so I wouldn't be able to read it before, still, it was the right time for me, since it would be very likely that even two years ago, I wouldn't be able to appreciate it in the same way.
This is definitely a new favorite of mine! Such an incredibly charming story.
"There ain't nobody in the world like book people." It's a bit embarrassing to admit how emotional this book made me. I'm not even a fan of Zevin's work; I quite liked the concept behind Elsewhere but not the execution, and I pretty much hated All These Things I've Done. But this book is just so warm and funny and bittersweet. It speaks to the thing inside me that has always loved books, will always love books, and has allowed my life to be swept in certain directions by my love for literature.
It speaks to the thing inside me that has always loved books, will always love books, and has allowed my life to be swept in certain directions by my love for literature.A.J. Fikry is one of my favourite kinds of characters - he's cynical and grumpy, but simultaneously witty, clever, funny and lovable.
Like many great books, his life twists in a strange new direction, introducing him to new people and new ways of thinking.
Though ultimately relieved, as I realised how important bookstores and paper books still are to many people.Whether this book is for you or not, I cannot say.
whether you read the kinds of vampire books that fikry laments or the more serious tomes he applauds (although considering he esteems The Book Thief, hasn't finished proust's ISOLT, and dismisses Infinite Jest, i'm taking his purported book-snobbery with a grain of salt), you know the power of a good story, even when it's just a sweet little piece of light escapism.this is a love letter to booklovers about the power of the written word to bring people together whether the relationships be romantic, parental, or book-clubby.several of these relationships involve the titular a.j. fikry; a bookstore owner and widower living on a small island somewhere new england-y who finds himself entrusted with the care of a two-year-old named maya after she is abandoned in his bookstore.
*4.5 Stars* — because how can any bonafide book-nerd not adore this quirky and heartfelt tribute to literature!I don’t know about you, but I could dwell inside the richly entertaining mind of one  A.J. Fickry  forever. Or at least every other weekend. Because that’s exactly what this novel simulates: a casual stroll through the mind of a complex, yet vastly simple middle-aged widower whose outlook on life has deflated.  Life has knocked him down, as it tends to do, and A.J. finds comfort in the
Life has knocked him down, as it tends to do, and A.J. finds comfort in the cold embrace of pessimism and gloom…And, of course, in his ownership of the town’s one and only bookstore.But a mysterious “package” popping up in his store will spark a powerful change in A.J., and even the townspeople, who typically view him as a grouchy ol’ book-snob will take notice.
I’d throw it across the room.”“You know everything you need to know about a person from the answer to the question, what is your favorite book?”“Someday, you may think of marrying.
Pick someone who thinks you're the only person in the room.”“We read to know we’re not alone.
What can I say?This novel was the ruination of me..
For this novel, the latter is true.
I lack the adequate language needed to evoke the emotion that The Storied Life of A.J. Fikry stirred within me.
You can't help but fall in love with the curmudgeon, bookseller A.J. I don't know if I've ever loved a character more than him.
Gabrielle Zevin used nuanced language to describe the character relationships.
She blew life into her characters and made them come alive on the pages.
If you consider yourself a book lover..I dare you not to fall in love with this book.
Well shit this was good...If you're looking for a fun summer read, a book that will make you laugh and cry, grab this one!Just wish there wasn't a spoiler for The Awakening :/
Everything is made "cute." Cute suicide, cute violent sudden death, cute (view spoiler)[cancer (hide spoiler)], cute baby abandonment, cute heartlessness, cute infidelity, cute alcoholism.Nothing exists in life that is not adorable, apparently.People seem to love this book for either two reasons:1.) They want an uplifting, cutesy book about how everything in life happens for a reason, and aren't people and all their quirks just adorable?!?2.) They like talking about books, reading about books, reading books about books, listening to people spout on about books.Look, I get it, I understand.
A book marketed as "heartwarming" is never for me.
But I read it anyway because I love books about books so much, and it sounded so good!
Based on the book's description and marketing, I know that it's meant to really appeal to book clubs and librarians and bookstores, and I think the author is doing everything humanly possible to kiss up to those groups without delivering anything with any depth.
I know she can write some really lovely things since some of the quotes from fictional books were wonderful.
I believe that there are heartwarming books out there that can touch my cold black vortex of a heart.
A must for book lovers and booksellers alike, The Storied Life of A.J. Fikry is an affirmation of the love of books and reading and how they meld lives together.
A.J. Fikry, is the owner of the independent bookstore, Island Books.
A question asked as part of A.J.F's reviews that head each chapter"Is a twist less satisfying if you know it's coming?"My answer, "No A.J., No Gabrielle!"If you've ever wondered about the inner workings of an independent bookstore or how it might feel to be a sales rep pitching a publisher's catalog, put this on your list.
I love getting books from Netgalley. You never know what you are going to get. It might be a complete dud or it might be something like this book. A book that sweeps you up. A book that makes you want more. I sit up tonight reading this because I just couldn't stop.  AJ Fikry is a snarky man who owns a bookstore. Every bookworm's dream, and he is a major bookworm. "Despite the fact that he loves books and owns a bookstore, AJ does not particulary care for writers".  AJ has a rare book worth enou
I love getting books from Netgalley.
It might be a complete dud or it might be something like this book.
A book that makes you want more.
AJ Fikry is a snarky man who owns a bookstore.
"Despite the fact that he loves books and owns a bookstore, AJ does not particulary care for writers".
In the next few days he discovers a baby in his bookstore with a note from the mother telling him that she wants him to have the child.
Of course he doesn't want her at first and tells her to be careful with giving her love away.
☺☺☺☺This was really lovely. It was perfectly written (seriously, Gabrielle Zevin has mastered using the English language), and heartfelt. It was a little sappy at times, but it felt appropriate. I loved the span of this book - over a decade of fascinating stuff happened. And I loved the setting - a book store on a tiny island. I loved the emphasis on books and love and trying to be a good person. I'm not giving a 5/5 simply because I don't think it did anything particularly new, and didn't make
☺️☺️☺️☺️This was really lovely.
It was perfectly written (seriously, Gabrielle Zevin has mastered using the English language), and heartfelt.
It was a little sappy at times, but it felt appropriate.
I loved the span of this book - over a decade of fascinating stuff happened.
And I loved the setting - a book store on a tiny island.
I loved the emphasis on books and love and trying to be a good person.
I'm not giving a 5/5 simply because I don't think it did anything particularly new, and didn't make me think about something I'd never thought about before.
This is not a perfect novel, but it is filled with bookish charm and easy grace.
Fikry is a man who has lots of opinions about books.
I do not like genre mash-ups a la the literary detective novel or the literary fantasy.
Fikry lists different authors and stories throughout the book, and I'm excited to go look up those I have not yet read.The book has some good bookish quotes and your usual colorful cast of small-town characters.
This is a pleasant, entertaining novel and was perfect for summer.
I know that A.J. is the one being critical and snobbish about what entails good writing or literature but it just felt like I was being lectured to and god I resent being told what to do so much, also I think short stories are rarely good so I want to fight A.J. At one point also there's this passage about how if you see something mentioned in the beginning of the book you want it to come back at the end and play a part out and then that happens in the story itself with a lot of things and it didn't seem like cute and self aware but again it just came off as the author patting themselves on the back for how much they know about writing.
When people would say, "Every book lover needs to read this book," I always thought it was such a stupid basis to recommend a book off of.
This story will truly connect to people who live and breathe books, much like the characters themselves.
Even though I was like none of these characters, I saw myself in them nevertheless just because of our shared passion for literature.This is another one of those books that has emotional parts to it but I don't ever cry until I finish it and close the book and the weight of it finally descends upon me.
It reads with the simplicity of a short story but still carries its own weight throughout the progression of the entire lifetime of its characters.
3.5 starsThis is a story to be read solely for the nerdistic cachet of getting all the literary references and book biz jokes.
Even if you're alone and there's no one to applaud you for being so well read, there's still that little frisson of snobbish self-satisfaction when you recognize the book or short story mentioned or alluded to.
And when you know which books and authors are made up, because you've never heard of them.
And if you're not that dorky, reading this book might make you wish you were more like us, the beautiful people.
And then the ending doubled down on the sentimentalism with an overused trope ((view spoiler)[death of a main character from cancer (hide spoiler)]).I'll confess here that I'm a person who cries way too easily in sentimental scenes in movies or books.
I was just mildly annoyed at the over-familiar direction the plot took.Still, there were some good moments and several delightful scenes, like this description of the book club started by Police Chief Lambiase:Years ago, Lambiase had had to institute a "leave your weapons" policy after a young cop had pulled a gun on another cop during a particularly heated discussion of The House of Sand and Fog.
Don't you just love reading a book that you can't wait to get back to, a book you want to savour yet must keep on reading. This UNPUTDOWNABLE delightful story about a charming little bookstore (and so much more) fit into that category for me. It combines laugh-out-loud moments with an occasional need for a tissue, engaging characters with real life problems and a twist or two along the way.Another 2014 favorite for this book lover! (It pains me that we are losing our beloved bookstores. I do enj
Don't you just love reading a book that you can't wait to get back to, a book you want to savour yet must keep on reading. This UNPUTDOWNABLE delightful story about a charming little bookstore (and so much more) fit into that category for me. It combines laugh-out-loud moments with an occasional need for a tissue, engaging characters with real life problems and a twist or two along the way.Another 2014 favorite for this book lover!
  (It pains me that we are losing our beloved bookstores. I do enjoy my e-reader, but still love my real books more.)
I didn't like it.You know where this is going.So the next time we were all together, I worked up the nerve and confessed to my friends: I just don't like New Kids on the Block.
But I'm really, sincerely happy that it was for the majority of all of you.Now here are some more thoughts I have on this book, hidden by this spoiler tag for two reasons: #1.
I also disliked the tense the book was set in; I felt like by writing it in this way, it was reaching to be quirky and original.
And every chapter opens with a reference to a literary work, followed by tender and thoughtful comments about it.It’s like the author said to herself, hm….what would a book lover salivate over?
(Help me stop doing this, please!) The funniest instance was when the main character went to a bar in his underwear and bathrobe—the author just forgot to somehow get him back home so he could get dressed before heading to the bar.And one more thing, which is not so minute, but which I didn’t care about because I was so sold on this book already: The young kid speaks like an adult.
"A question I’ve thought about a great deal is why it is so much easier to write about the things we dislike/hate/ acknowledge to be flawed than the things we love." – A.J. Fikry I stayed up late last night to finish this book, and hoped that by the time I woke up this morning, I'd have a clear idea about why and what I loved most about this book. I'm still at a loss for words because I love every single part of this book! Fittingly, it was recommended by the owner of a tiny independent booksto
I stayed up late last night to finish this book, and hoped that by the time I woke up this morning, I'd have a clear idea about why and what I loved most about this book.
I'm still at a loss for words because I love every single part of this book!
"Why is any one book different from any other book?
I loved this book because it was exhilarating.
It was a book about books and people who love them–people of all shapes, colors and sizes.
It also encompassed my ideas of hope, love, family, grief, and reality, really.
Unexpectedly and unabashedly charming. Cozy, sweet and life-affirming and yet somehow avoiding the overt sentimentality, managing to remain quietly refreshing and, again, charming in the nicest meaning of that word. "The most annoying thing about it is that once a person gives a shit about one thing, he finds he has to start giving a shit about everything." It's a lovely quiet story about the way a life of a lonely and surly bookseller on a remote New England island gets turned around when he un
It's a lovely quiet story about the way a life of a lonely and surly bookseller on a remote New England island gets turned around when he unexpectedly finds himself a guardian and then a father of an adorable toddler abandoned in his bookstore.
It may call itself a town, but unless it's got a bookstore it knows it's not fooling a soul." ("American Gods" by Neil Gaiman)It's also a story of the world of book selling and book publishing, about the role a brick-and-mortar bookstore can - and should - play in a small community, about the love of books and the connections that they can help form.
“A place is not really a place without a bookstore.” The beginning of The Storied Life of A. J. Fikry was the most fun I had reading a fiction book since the start of this year. What compelled me to give it a go was seeing this next quote shared online:“People tell boring lies about politics, God, and love. You know everything you need to know about a person from the answer to the question, What is your favorite book?”And I’m forevermore grateful because what followed was something I couldn’t ha
J. Fikry is an unforgettable tale of transformation and second chances, an irresistible affirmation of why we read, and why we love.As I mentioned at the start of this review, I was drawn to the beginning of this book, thanks to the numerous laugh-out-loud moments where the main character keeps breaking the fourth wall left and right.“My wife and I,” A.J. replied without thinking.
(Here are some of my favorite 4th wall breaks from the movie.) And the same type of wit is used by our main character, the snarky and grumpy A.J. Fikry.Aside from appreciating the more comical moments, I also enjoyed Gabrielle Zevin's swift novel for making each chapter feel like a short story.
Totally plucked my heartstrings and reminded me why I love books and people who love books.
(In fact, I really want to own it in physical form now).Basically this book follows AJ Fikry, along with some other characters that are in his life.
It's a beautifully heart-warming and tender story about the power of words, of reading and books and the connections that they bring people.I don't want to say too much because it's quite a short novel, and such an easy read.
But I will say that I think most everyone would enjoy this book, especially if you are a bibliophile.
The story is like an homage to book lovers, reading, and the way books shape us and the impact they can have on our outlook on life, even in our relationships, our attitudes, and how they can inspire us through good and bad times.
He built an important legacy over the years, and that legacy, thanks to those he loved, will go on to extend the love of books and reading to people for a long time to come… even to those who love vampires, series, Young Adult, and Children’s books about orphans.This a delightful story that lifted my spirits and warmed my heart.
I do not believe in God. I have no religion.
But this to me is as close to a church as I have known in this life.
It is a holy place.
With bookstores like this, I feel confident in saying there will be a book business for a very long time.
There are already thousands of reviews of this book, so .
I might as well add another one.By now you know that the book concerns a prickly widower who is coaxed back to life again by family, friends and the patrons of his bookshop.
It's corny and sappy a
With bookstores like this, I feel confident in saying there will be a book business for a very long time.
And I loved it!I believe I was bewitched early in the book when Fikry delivers a world class book rant:
I find literary fiction about the Holocaust or any other major world tragedy to be distasteful -- nonfiction only, please.
I do not like genre mash-ups a la the literary detective novel or the literary fantasy.
I do not like children's books, especially ones with orphans, and I prefer not to clutter my shelves with young adult.
Still, I loved how a lonely curmudgeon using books to escape life gets turned around to using them to connect to people.
His one friend, Daniel, a self-centered, philandering novelist, begins to be humanized through contact with Maya, starting with reading to her.
A deputy sheriff, Lambiase, becomes a friend over the Maya case and soon becomes a book lover who starts a crime fiction reading group at the store.
Show, don’t tell.”…” ‘Show, don’t tell’ is a complete crock of shit…” Daniel lectures her.
I knew this story was for book lovers, but I started reading it with mild scepticism.
It went straight to my heart, and I think it'll stay there for a long time to come.One of my favourite moments in the book was a chapter, where the point of view changes all of a sudden and we get to see the world from Maya's point of view.
This is a beautiful story with amazing and unique characters that you can't help but love, and now that I've finished it I can definitely agree with everyone else: This book is for book lovers and it's really REALLY good <3
