https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/100720.The_Titans
Lee. Although having a life of his own, Jephtha has been completely shut out and pushed away by his now ex-wife Fan Tunworth, and their 3 children Gideon (who the second half of the story focuses on), Jerimiah, and Matthew, and Fan is newly married to actor Edward Lamont.
As I said up above, the second half of the story focuses on Gideon Kent, the oldest of the 3 children who have had no contact with Jephtha since Fan left him.
I, basically, had a history class (googled) of the Civil War. It was quite delightful and very insightful.) Jephtha's ex (Nan) has come to Washington with her new husband, Lamont.
Lamont has strong southern political ambitions and, unbeknownst to Nan is conniving to kill Jephtha so the boys can recieve their inheritance from the California Gold mines, and he can persuade her to give the money to the Confederate Army (!!).
Lincoln says "A house divided against itself cannot stand," but Jephtha and Gideon (newly reunited), tho divided by politics, would like to see the Kent Family return to a united front after the war is over, provided they all survive.
The fourth Kent generation lives and fights in the war that threatened to tear their country apart forever.
John Jakes adds new twists to a time and period that is often written in and about.
The names that we once came across in our history books come alive and stay with us in this new literary light.
The Kent families have prospered and wield the influence of the very wealthy.
Not all of them are in agreement with the course of their nation and the conflict (as with many others) threatens to tear them apart.
Volume 5 of the Kent Family Chronicles covers the early years of the civil war from both sides.
Father a reporter from the North who despises slavery and a son from the South who wants the states to be able to choose for themselves.
Jakes does a good job covering the confusion and gore of the battles.
The South was winning the early battles but based on resources and sheer numbers the North winning was inevitable.
Treachery thrown in from both sides also.
Louis sells goods from the North to the South to make a buck and Edward plots to kill Gideon's father to get more money for the Conferates.
In this, book 5 of the Kent family chronicles, the story begins with the election of 1860.
A Kent father/son (Jeptha Kent/Gideon Kent) end up on opposite sides.
At book's end, it is 31 May 1862.
Gideon and Molly have daughter born that day, which they subsequently named Eleanor.
General Joe Johnston received a serious wound, and was replaced by REL.
The latter’s reputation had suffered due to some losses in the Valley the previous year.
Gideon’s father, Jeptha, had smuggled some money to him to buy himself a horse.
Then they returned, Gideon was listed as missing in action.
I read books 2-7 of this series in the last weeks of Feb 2013. While I liked the continuation of the family name through each generation, I could have done without every single important female of the Kent family being raped, sometimes repeatedly. They no sooner got power and money than they lost it, and family members ran the gamut from good to brilliant to corrupt to sleazy to fierce to insane to bloodthirsty. Lots of historical info, also, which made the story more real and interesting. But I would not recommend this series, save book #4.
John Jakes' reputation for historical accuracy, his writing style, and the story he tells of the fictional Kent family combine to makes the entire 8-volume family saga absolutely wonderful. Reading this series was key in getting me "hooked" on the historical-fiction genre.
This fifth volume of the John Jakes series takes the Kent family into the early months of the Civil War. And no historical saga of an American family is complete unless it finds members of that family on both sides of the War Between the States.
Instead, we focus almost exclusively on the first six months of the war, including the election of Abraham Lincoln and the battle of Bull Run. The first half of the book focuses on Jephtha Kent, journalist and former abolitionist preacher, and his attempts to make amends with his sons, who now live with his ex-wife and her husband, an arrogant supporter of the South.
This novel about the Kent family focuses on the impending and start of the American Civil War. Here readers find that Louis Kent is beginning to take control of the Kent family businesses, has married, and is a part of the upper society of New York City.
The oldest son of Jeptha’s, Gideon, is on his way to enlist with Stuart’s cavalry on behalf of the Confederacy.This novel places the Kent family amongst some of the most turbulent times at the start of the Civil War, as well as alongside some of the most famous people of this era.
This a book that is fluffy. That's not to say it's not a good book. Jennifer Stevenson writes cleverly and well. It has good flow, a solid storyline and no shortage of twists, although sometimes predictable.[return]It has a clear audience, and never pretends to be anything other than chick-lit, which is promising for a book of this genre. [return]Not a book that would appeal to everyone, and not a book I would go out of my way to recommend, but a nice light read and a good example of this genre
This, the fifth of the Kent Family Chronicles will probably be my last. I think Jakes was losing interest round about this point. If he had stuck to the minuscule side story about how businessmen ripped off both sides in the Civil War, it would have been much more interesting, but instead we get the old "War is Hell" trope. Still,well written withal.
I read this entire John Jakes series many years ago, had them in hardbook until they literally fell apart, I have now purchased them for Kindle to read them all again. John Jakes did his homework and these are some of the best historical books I have ever read. I love them, highly recommend, start with the first in the series and read them in order. Great reading at it's best.
This was a bit too meticulous for my taste, but none-the-less a quality read. Characters were fun to follow, the plot was deliciously Dynasty-style soap opera, and the language wasn't as contrived as it could have been. It's just terribly long, and the battle scene overstayed its welcome.
The 5th book of the Kent Family Chronicles follows the Kents through the Civil War, with the family decided due to their idiologies. Young Gideon Kent, a soldier of the Confederacy, is initially eager to fight but learns quickly there is no glory in this war.
Very good entry into this series, concentrating on the period leading up to and beginning the Civil War. The Kents are a fractured family at this point and this is the focal point of the tale. Has me looking forward the final 3 volumes.
I had high hopes for this one, but it felt rather disjointed and left me a bit disappointed.
The first three books were great, this had great moments but dragged a bit. I put it down twice.
This one wa better than #4
I enjoyed this book - each of the Kent Family Chronicles has some important historical event or war in the book and this one was set during the Civil War. Looking forward to the next one....
7 out of 10
Second time. Still liked the series waited anxiously for the next book and hated to see it end.
A wonderful piece of historical fiction.
Interesting story with just a bit too many contrived circumstances. Fans of other books by Sawyer will enjoy this one too.
Read all of the Kent books back in the 70s
Michael finally gives up trying to help Louis and joins the Union Army to make the separation complete.The second story is that of Jephtha Kent, Amanda Kent's cousin.
In The Titans, Jephtha has quit the church, and is working as a news paper reporter for a pro-Union paper.
Jephtha has three sons, but his former wife, Fan, won't let him see the boys.
Fan and Jephtha cross paths again when her new husband brings Fan and one of the boys to Jephtha's home city of Washington D.C. in order to try to stir up anti-Union sentiment.Jephtha's oldest son, Gideon, is the protagonist in the third story.
These comments address The Kent Family Chronicles, the entire series of eight books, in audiobook format.
Tempo and pacing fine, albeit the narration is a bit slow for my taste, bumped it to 1.25.The entire series is a broad spectrum history of the United States from just pre-Revolutionary War through the 1890s and a chronicle of the Kent family through this time.
All the instances that involve the Kents and John Jake’s other fictional characters are products of his imagination.
Several of these books were adapted for television mini-series, popular at the time.John Jakes is a terrific historical fiction author, recommended.
This is another of the great books of the Kent Family Chronicles, an eight book historical perspective of life in America from Revolutionary days through the 1800s.
I had previously read all of the books of the series as they were published in the mid 1970s in recognition of America's Bicentennial around the time that they were published.
I decided to reread the two Civil War books as part of a historical fiction challenge and as I read them well over 30 years ago, it was more or less like a new read for me, but I am now hooked again after this one.
Ah, the Civil War. This was the first book I read in the series, and possibly my favorite. Lots of detail about Lincoln and Lee and the political situation. Very entertaining, and with a character--Gideon Kent--who lasts through the rest of the series. Although a Southerner, he's a decent man. Never owned any slaves, of course (he was too young).I can't help but wonder if Jakes was Southern. Even though there's plenty of moralizing about civil rights and the evils of slavery and the like, he still seems to go easy on the secessionists, for the most part.
The Kent family is torn apart as the strife of the Civil War pits a father against his sons.
Jephtha Kent is on the side of the Union...his ex-wife and three sons live in the South and favor the Confederacy.
What was true during the months running up to the start of the Civil War is still true today.
Yet war is not honorable because it brings out the beast in people and promotes the widespread killing of other human beings.
War destroys societies, families, and economies.
And the author dwells on the turmoil in each person as they accept or reject the concept of war and its aftereffects.
The Titans focuses on Kent family founder Philip's great-great grandson, Gideon Kent, a cavalary officer in the Confederate Army as the Civil War breaks out.
I always enjoyed how well Jakes could show all sides of the issues, especially in the complicated Civil War. He did this spectacularly in his North and South series, as well.
Instead of brother against brother, The Titans pits father against son as Gideon's estranged father Jephtha is a reporter for a Union newspaper.
