https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/90952.Flying_Colours
Based upon the previous books I had assumed at some point that I'd be reading about Hornblower trading broadsides with the French or some other foe.
Hounded by France's internal police forces, Hornblower and his companions lead a desperate and daring chase.None-the-less, it is a Hornblower story.
The plucky British sea captain survives by using his ingenuity and daring rather than brute force.
His final escape from France is classic Hornblower insane daring and cool brinkmanship.
These Hornblower books are well worth the read if you enjoy your historical fiction set in the period of Revolutionary France.
Should I say again how much I am loving these Horatio Hornblower books?
Arriving at a chateau in a small town, their boat capsizes and they are taken in by the only non-Bonaparte loving Frenchmen around.
He is now Sir Horatio Hornblower and given a Colonel of the Marines stipend for 1200 pounds a year.
The book ends with Sir Horatio arriving at the residence of Lady Barbara and meeting his son Richard for the first time.
Hornblower is a contrary man, never satisfied with his achievements & self-condemning to a ridiculous degree. I got a little tired of the long descriptions of self-doubt, but the overall story was excellent. I was glad to see him unbend a little, too.This book gives us a better look at France & its people as well as some of the politics of the time. Hornblower's focus & pessimism was a perfect vehicle this. It allowed Forester to show both sides of public opinion, the newspapers, &am
Hornblower is a contrary man, never satisfied with his achievements & self-condemning to a ridiculous degree.
I got a little tired of the long descriptions of self-doubt, but the overall story was excellent.
I was glad to see him unbend a little, too.This book gives us a better look at France & its people as well as some of the politics of the time.
It allowed Forester to show both sides of public opinion, the newspapers, & the legal system under which Hornblower labors.It's time to read the short story "Hornblower and His Majesty" which takes place in 1812.
C.S. Forester.
We do get a (forgive me for the use of this phrase) stirring story of daring do.HH, Lt. Bush and Brown (cockswain) are separated from the rest of the prisoners taken after the battle (we saw at the end of our last big adventure) and sent to Paris.
There HH and Bush are to have a "fair trial" and then be shot...HH isn't keen on this so, off we go.Another good read but one where HH's foibles are on full display (the man seems to have little self control around certain women, of course the women seem to have the same problem with HH so maybe it's hormones or pheromones or something).
This is probably the most unique book within the Hornblower series up to this point, since maybe only a quarter of the book takes place at sea.
As such, it becomes one of the more character-driven books in the series, which is both its strength and its weakness, since Hornblower is both a strong and a weak character.
As a whole, I find Hornblower a delightfully complex character, one who's easy to relate to in his vast imperfection.
But, at the same time, I (unlike all the women in the book, apparently) have a hard time feeling any affection for him.
This review is for the complete 11-book series of THE HORNBLOWER SAGA by C.S. Forester, which I just finished reading last night.[Note: Individual books have individual star ratings (mostly 5-star, a few 4-star), but the descriptive review will be the same for each, and encompass the entire series, as follows.]Actually, I just finished reading the complete series for the second time, the first being as a teenager some 30 years ago.It's remarkable to me that I have only just this moment realized that my own timeline regarding the two readings corresponds almost exactly to the age progression experienced by the main character in the course of these 11 novels.It's a 30-year journey unlike any other I have ever taken in books - full and deep and satisfying.This is the epic saga of fictional British naval hero HORATIO HORNBLOWER, who goes from a 17-year-old midshipman to a 46-year-old admiral during the "golden age of sail" which encompasses the Napoleonic Wars of the early 19th century.I'll list the 11 books in chronological order (not the order they were written), which is the best way, I believe, to read them:- MR.
First Hornblower witnessed the final destruction of the French squadron by a well-orchestrated British night assault, which also encompassed the destruction of the shattered hulk of his own ship the Sutherland, to deny the French even the pitiful prize, and then one of Bonaparte's personal aides, Colonel Caillard, arrives at Rosas with orders to collect Hornblower and Bush and deliver them to Paris to stand trial for 'piracy' involving violations of the Laws of War. Despite their armed escort and Bush's loss of a foot, they somehow manage to escape before their scheduled trial, conviction, and subsequent execution.
The story is really Part Two of A Ship of the Line, and tells of Hornblower's escape, overland, from the French.
There is minimal sea action, and the escape is only possible thanks to a ludicrous chain of coincidences.
So ludicrous that it would have been more plausible if Napoleon, out of the goodness of his heart, had set Hornblower free and put him on a ship to England.
The other key factor in the escape is Hornblower's coxswain, Brown, who does all the heavy work, including knocking a French officer on the head.
One of my favorite of the Horatio Hornblower books, Flying Colours is in many ways the opposite of the previous book Ship of the Line. Where "Ship" is a plot-driven adventure filled with action and sea battles, "Colours" is a character-driven land-based drama that centers on Hornblower's capture and journey to Paris, to be dubiously tried by Napoleon for war crimes. The circumstances drive us deeper into Horatio's psyche than we've been before, reminding us that Forester was not just a great storyteller, but a writer of depth and insight into human nature.
I loved this book.
Almost all of the book takes place on land, and the change of pace was refreshing.
The book starts with Hornblower imprisoned in Rosas where he watches the Pluto and Caligula set fire to and sink the four French ships he disabled at the end of the previous book.
Along the way they escape and have the good fortune of finding harbor with a sympathtic French nobleman and his daughter-in-law.
After staying with them for several months they make their way to the French coast and brazingly steal a captured British scooner and sail it to freedom.
As always I look forward to the next book in the series.
Hornblower begs to differ, and he flees across France with the wounded Lt. Bush and his faithful coxswain Brown.
He worries about what kind of reception he’ll receive when he reaches England, as a captain who surrendered his ship to the enemy.Here Hornblower redeems himself somewhat, in my eyes, by his kindness to the injured Bush and reasonable treatment of Brown during their ordeal in France.The ending is awfully tidy, although it doesn't seem to bring Hornblower much joy.
(view spoiler)[In quite short order, Hornblower gets everything he ever wanted.
Another strong novel in this series and yet again im impressed by how he writes supporting characters that isnt as great as Hornblower. The men of his ship and the poor, dangerous life of navy sailors. This eras barbaric warfare in the sea with broadsides, horrible deaths is not written to a honorable or an adventure.
Good fun, if a little convenient at times.
This is a different Hornblower novel than any of the others I've read previously.
The largest part of the book is taken up by Hornblower's captivity and escape from said captivity.
As I said before, several of the conflicts he runs into on his escape are too conveniently resolved.
I understand that Forester wants him to seem human, but I have a hard time believing someone as hyper intelligent as Hornblower would seriously consider that for more than a moment, especially at this later point in his career.
I really enjoyed this book.
The last Horatio Hornblower book stops at a cliff hanger, and this picks right up.
I think this one is unique because most of the action takes place on land, or tiny rivers in the dead of winter, NOT on big ships at sea.
I think I was able to relate to it more because of that.
There is a bit of hollywood wisdom in this and we get to watch Horatio struggle through some of that.
But all that to say, I really liked this book and think it adds a lot to the series.
You spend the entirety of this book inside Horatio Hornblower's head, from the sense of degradation as a captive (yet a noble prisoner) of the enemy French, through the idyllic middle section as he and his men chance upon the most helpful ally imaginable, to the one real action scene as he makes off with a small ship and fights off pursuit, on to the amazing ending where he is confronted with some ugly political realities of the country he has served.
And yet all obstacles melt away in front of him over the course of the tale, at least all the ones which lie outside himself, when he discovers he's gained everything and, at the same time, nothing of what he truly needs.
On top of his drama with Maria and Lady Barbara, he...well, gets involved with another woman.
I was almost enjoying this book- the exciting escape, and the change of pace from the usual sea stories, but this just made me mad at him.
Poor Mr. Bush, and all he goes through in this story, loosing a foot and all, and then there's Horatio, who makes himself think he's helping Bush, and everyone, and he is on the outside, but his thoughts are SO SELF FOCUSED!
Yes, he can be a flawed character, but even his affair seemed so out of character, after his self control with Lady Barbara.

Now I'm really mad!!!!
I wanted to give it one star because I'm so pissed at Hornblower I could punch him in the face.
But the book was well written and it did hold my attention.During the whole book he's mooning over Lady Barbara who is NOT his wife.
Jerk.
Then he does something with some other lady.
Creep.
And then moons over her and Lady Barbara some more while still thinking lovingly about his wife.
ARGH!!!!
NOT THE HORNBLOWER I KNOW AND LOVE.
Very disappointed with where this character is going.
I'm not even sure I want to finish the series.
I found this book to be one of my favorites in the series, even though it's not really about him and his ships. This book follows Hornblower after he gets captured by the French, and he escapes with a severely injured friend and then sails to glory. The only reason I gave this four stars was because of his little "moment" with Marie. It is not at all detailed, and only briefly mentioned, but it was so unnecessary and I got very angry with him and his lack of skills with women.
Hornblower and Bush are being taken to Paris to stand trial and be executed. Even if they escape, though, Hornblower will have to face court-martial for surrendering his ship. It has been several months, and he has been declared dead. He worries about his pregnant wife, whether or not his lover Barbara will forget him, and whether or not he will have any career left if he survives. He has a lot of work ahead of him! But he is our hero, and you can be sure he'll find a way!
Rating is for the plotline, which I think is one of the strongest in the series, and for the reader, whose mastery of accent and intonation really brings the characters to life. But I'm getting pretty tired of Hornblower for the way Forester has him continually berating himself, feeling happy for the sole purpose of having some realization drain the moment's joy, and for reducing every woman in sight to hot crotched helplessness (Lady Barbara: "He knew she was his for the asking." Please.)
Quite boring, comparing to the rest of the series... Too much romance, too little action. Only the last 20% is action-driven, in a good Hornblower way.
A fast-paced holiday read, but make sure you read A Ship Of The Line first.
Arriving at a heavily-defended seaport they change into the uniforms of French customs officers and steal a British light ship, The Witch Of Endor, liberating a gang of prisoners to be its crew.
Hornblower faces a court martial for the loss of his ship in the previous book, but instead of being punished he's promoted to Commodore.
It's still fun to read, because there's a delight in seeing Hornblower's insane risks come off, and because it's paced like a great action movie.
As you can guess by the title, Captain Hornblower did something good in the short story, and I you could say he received it back and more in this book.Overall, I didn’t enjoy “Flying Colours” quite as much because it started predictably after the big cliffhanger at the end of “Ship of the Line”, and the majority of this book was spent on land.
There are a couple allusions in this book to the story of Job from the Bible, and you can see aspects of Hornblower’s tragic circumstances that could are comparable; however, you can only take things so far because Job remained faithful to his wife unlike Captain Hornblower who’s been pining over Lady Barbara since the first book.
I had every intention of talking about what an excellent book this is, but I find I must first complain about the perversity of goodreads in insisting on "chronological" order for the Hornblower books.
Flying Colours is the third book in the original Hornblower trilogy, and the original Hornblower trilogy is what you should read first if you are reading Hornblower for the first time.
And if you have not already read Hornblower, it is high time you did.
These are some of the best books ever.It has been many years since I last read this particular volume.
Captain Hornblower doesn't sail on the sea until page 175.
Instead he gets a taste of imprisonment--the fallout from the disaster he faced at the end of the last volume--and faces his own mortality.
Of course, when danger and opportunity arises, Hornblower plunges in and comes through with...
(nah, too easy) Like the rest of the series, it was a very enjoyable read.
I wasn't entirely satisfied with the ending of this, the original Hornblower trilogy, however.
It tied up the loose ends a little too nicely.
Still, it's a small flaw in a remarkable series.
Flying Colours focusses on his imprisonment after one such mission and it's as good as the gung-ho action novels.There are plenty of metaphors and juxtapositions; he's seeking freedom whilst jailed but fears his freedom is more constricting.
There are more mixed emotions surrounding his relationship with his wife, his unborn child, his true love and lover and of course the Royal Navy - he strives to leave knowing that his release will potentially put him back where he started.It's a clever novel that humanises Hornblower more so than in any other book and demonstrates the strength of character and resolve that a Royal Navy Officer must have to succeed.
Will he succeed?
A unique novel in that in that all of the critical action takes place on land, making this a true Hornblower out of Water novel.
Forester uses this opportunity to clear the brush of older plots away and set the course for the final glorious rise of Hornblower out of the usual ranks of naval captains and into a certified hero of the British Empire and a fitting opponent of Napoleon, heir to Nelson and the sea-borne partner to his future brother-in-law.
This is also when Hornblower acquires his irreplaceable manservant Browne, and Bush finally makes post-captain.
This is where the series finally comes into its own.
Forester takes you into Hornblower's world and sweeps you along and you feel yourself on the ship and fighting the battles with the wind filling the sails and the cannon blasting. This book picks up right after Hornblower has surrendered the Sutherland and is held captive by the French. He is then hauled toward Paris to be tried for piracy. My only complaint about these books is that they end very abruptly in the middle of events. Things sort of wrap up, but are not resolved. I guess it's one way to ensure you read the next book.
I do enjoy a good Horatio Hornblower story but I was a little shocked that Horatio’s moral compass although very sharp aboard ships seems to be a little dull when pointed toward a pretty lady. He commits adultery but has no guilt about betraying the trust of his poor wife who is bearing his child back home. Even before he commits adultery, he thinks of his wife, Maria, and the woman he loves, Lady Barbara. Then has an affair with someone else! Horatio, I am ashamed of you!
