https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34076952-the-language-of-thorns
So shut the window tight and make sure the latch is fastened. Dark things have a way of slipping in through narrow spaces. *shivers*Bardugo is definitely at her best when writing short stories. These dark, haunting and beautifully-written little fairy tales had me reading at every spare moment. They have that timeless fairy tale quality, reminiscent of Neil Gaiman and Laini Taylor’s Lips Touch: Three Times. And if you’re considering whether it is worth buying a hardcover copy of The Language of
These dark, haunting and beautifully-written little fairy tales had me reading at every spare moment.
Bardugo tells brand new stories with nods to the classics, such as The Little Mermaid and Hansel and Gretel, often leaving us with a very different ending or message than what we would have expected.As she notes in the afterword, many fairy tales feature characters completing impossible tasks to win love or acceptance, but this has always felt...
I recommend this for anyone who enjoys fairy tale-style stories and/or retellings, regardless of whether you usually enjoy Bardugo’s books or not.
THIS WAS SO GOOD AND I'M NOT SURPRISED AT ALL ABOUT ITThis was delightfully dark and creepy and was the perfect fairy tale collection for a universe I have come to love.
Her writing style is perfect for fairy tales.
It made for such an enhanced reading experience.
All of these tales are 5/5 stars honestly, but here they are in order of favourite to least favourite.
Little Knife (this one actually might be closer to 4/5 stars, it was kind of boring)For any fan of the grishaverse, this is a MUST read IMO.
"It was only then that she saw the black-clad boy crossing the room toward her. The shadows seemed to shift as he passed, pulled along by him like a tide." Hello, Darkling. THIS WAS SO GOOD.YOU GUYS. I can't even function to write a full review so I'm going to wait.But.The last story.WHAT DOES THIS MEAN??? IS SHE STILL ALIVE?? SEND HELPMy Blog ~ Instagram ~ Twitter ~ Etsy
This is such a beautiful story about perspective and how we are never as smart as we feel we are.
And I can’t recommend you read it enough, because this short story actually shook my entire world.
And Droessen might be the best character debut in this entire short story collection.
This short story was so perfectly crafted and the tale was so perfectly woven into a simple masterpiece.
It’s beautiful, detailed, thoughtful, whimsical, and every single thing I look for in good fairy tales.
Well, one that I read when it was free on Tor I only gave 3 stars because of the hunting but other than that, they were pretty dark and cool!
And let me tell you, all of these pictures on the postcards and through-out the book are amaze balls!
It's a telling of the not beauty and the beast =) It's wicked and cool!
I gave it three stars in my original review because it had some tales within tales THE WITCH OF DUVAThis one is really dark and cool.
=D I loved the book, it's absolutely beautiful inside and out.
I think I just fell into the DARK WITCH'S WOOD OF MAGIC and I am literally bursting with love.
It was like ever dumb fairy tale trope just got kicked in the teeth.
This book is literally the most clever thing.And there's SO much food in here.
I ADORED the artwork on every page and the double-page spreads were just...ugh my eyeballs just ran off with this book and married it at dawn.These are like fairy tales as they SHOULD be.
I could got eat a moon or write a book or, like, eat a pie.
These are so, so utterly beautiful. I have not actually read the Grisha Trilogy [okay. now I have.], only Six of Crows, but Bardugo's attention to detail in planning her Grisha world comes through in every one of her books that I've read. This one is no exception. Somehow, these stories are more than just folktales; they feel both like folktales told by your grandmother and ghost stories told by your friend beside a campfire.  It wasn't the cannibal witch that bothered me. It wasn't even the se
now I have.], only Six of Crows, but Bardugo's attention to detail in planning her Grisha world comes through in every one of her books that I've read.
// THE STORY REVIEWS# Ayama and the Thorn Wood - ★★★★★This is like a mashup of Cinderella and Beauty & the Beast.
Here, Bardugo tells the story of a clever fox and a hunter who is just as clever.
This gets a five because I happened to guess a major plot point.# The Witch of Duva - ★★★★★This is one of the best short stories I have ever read.
Who knew that genuine beauty can be found in midnight tales infused with a dash of twisted? “Bad fates do not always follow those who deserve them.”  The Language of Thorns: Midnight Tales and Dangerous Magic is a collection of tales inspired by folklore and beloved stories, such as The Little Mermaid, Hansel and Gretel and The Nutcracker, but they follow a different path. Through lush, marvelous illustrations and words that warm your heart only to tear it from your chest, between thorns drawing
The Language of Thorns: Midnight Tales and Dangerous Magic is a collection of tales inspired by folklore and beloved stories, such as The Little Mermaid, Hansel and Gretel and The Nutcracker, but they follow a different path.
Through lush, marvelous illustrations and words that warm your heart only to tear it from your chest, between thorns drawing blood entwined with fragnant roses, Leigh Bardugo weaves six hauntingly beautiful and disturbing tales, that stir a wave of unease that you cannot quell.
And I am SO PLEASED with how she went against the expected traditional fairy tale messages and created such dark, refreshing endings.I had already read a few of the stories that had been published as individual novellas, like The Too-Clever Fox (which I initially thought might be about Nikolai because of course).
But even the stories I was familiar with seemed totally new in this context!
I am seriously blown away by this and cannot recommend it enough if you're a fan of Leigh's Grisha books or darker fairy tales.
I just finished reading this and honestly where the fuck is The Darkling, I'm so confused.----UPDATE: Just found out my soul mate Daddy Darkling in this book and I'm having a hard time breathing. Fucking hElp mE IM DYING*implodes*-----------y'all don't even know how bad I want my daddy Darkling to be in this
[loses my shit and calls a sex hotline] kaz brekker and the darkling could be in this book. kaz brekker better be in this book. excuse you? no i do not want to talk dirty. listen to me. I NEED TO KNOW WHETHER KAZ BREKKER AND THE DARKLING WOULD BE IN THIS BOOk.... hello?? anyway, can't wait to finish this book and spend 12 continuous hours screaming into my pillow!!!!!!
i reviewed ‘em here, if you really do need to have your critical analysis beast fed, or if you just want the links to where you can read the stories for free:The Too-Clever FoxThe Witch of DuvaLittle Knifeeven though i’ve read dozens more since then, those three stories are still top-ranked in my “free tor short hall of fame.” they are the perfect kind of fairytale - not cheesy or gentle, not dark and edgy just to shock or subvert, but … honest.
and when i heard this was going to be published and realized i’d already read half of the book, it is a testament to just how good those stories are that i didn’t feel a scrap of disappointment.
The younger sister saw the wisdom in this bargain, and they all returned home together, where their days were full of work made easier in the sharing, and their nights were full of laughter and carousing.”“And what lesson am I to learn from this story?” asked the beast when she was done.“That there are better things than princes.” (c)Q:For when Ayama had awoken after her adventures, it was the wounds from the thicket that had proven all the sweet blossoms and starlight had been real.
Please just take all of my money.
(See my excitement below!)And since I pretty much converted to Bardugo-ism last year, I thought, that's it.
Nothing about the stories blew my mind, nor could I connect to them on any level.
Usually with other short stories that I have read, the characterisations are on par.
With these stories, however, I was just glad they ended.
It wasn't even that the book itself was bad, because there is no way that I can fault the writing, or the eeriness these stories possessed.
I cannot WAIT to read this book!
Give it to me, Bardugo!
And I have to note that I came to endlessly appreciate her for sharing the message that our heroine's story doesn't have to end with finding romantic love (not specifically talking about one tale here), even going so far as to make that the damn point of it all.“It was I who built the tower of trees,” said the river.“And I who earned the mirror from Baba Anezka.
''You see, some people are born with a piece of night inside, and that hollow place can never be filled- not with all the good food or sunshine in the world.'' Leigh Bardugo is a writer that doesn't need introductions. I haven't read the Crows Duology but I enjoyed the Grisha Trilogy immensely and I knew that a short stories collection inspired by the Grisha universe would be as dark and complex as the Darkling's fascinating world. I wasn't disappointed. There are four original stories and two
I haven't read the Crows Duology but I enjoyed the Grisha Trilogy immensely and I knew that a short stories collection inspired by the Grisha universe would be as dark and complex as the Darkling's fascinating world.
Witches, haunted towns, mermaids, mighty elements of Nature join in a dance macabre perfect for those of us who want our fairytales dark and twisted.
A beautiful tale that makes use of the traditional theme of the maiden who must soften the beast's heart with her stories and her kindness.
: If we think of dark, haunting and menacing forests, our mind should immediately wander off to the Russian landscape and the steppes with their vicious, otherworldly beauty.
It's one of my favourite high fantasy worlds, and you can tell Leigh Bardugo loves it so much herself and has put so much work into it.
This story gave me the absolute creeps, it was super creepy and kinda gross but I liked that about it.
I'm glad I hadn't already read the short story for this (because I believe this one is already published?) But anyway, loved this oneThe Witch of Duva: 5 stars.
I didn't like how Signy and Ulla's relationship went about, and I definitely felt the ending was the most predictable of all the stories.
I definitely enjoyed this creepy set of stories from the Grisha world.
Leigh’s back again, ruining lives, destroying homes, making little children (me) cry thank you for this leigh, its v welcome  Ayama and the Thorn Wood  ~ 4.5 stars- This story man, it was great- Fantastic, superb, entertaining- What an excellent kick off for the collection of stories- The quiet, ugly-ducklings GET A STORY YES FINALLY - I just really loved the moral of the story- Bc we’re always getting these fantastical YA books about flawlessly chiseled heroines and perfectly crafted love inter
~ 3.5 stars-	I didn’t love this one as much as the first-	It was interesting and clever -	Again I appreciated how the ugly little fox was the main character and used his cunning wit to survive-	Kinda a sad story if you think about it tho
(❛‿❛) ꧁Individual ratings and reviews of each story below꧂Ayama and the Thorn Wood ⭐⭐⭐⭐“This goes to show you that sometimes the unseen is not to be feared and that those meant to love us most are not always the ones who do.”This story was really heartbreaking and so beautiful at the same time.
In this kingdom lived two sisters a beautiful one that loved to sing and everyone held in high esteem, the other was ugly and her name was Ayama.
She tells him three different stories which I really loved!
I absolutely love a good dark folklore tale.
This book wasn't high on my tbr pile, to be honest, most of all because I didn't want to spend the money on it and because I didn't expect my local libraries to hold a copy of it.
I know that my favourite author's story will be fantastic but I tend to forget most other novellas as soon as I've finished them; they're either unimpressive or not exactly my taste.
It's amazing (and on the other hand a little sad) to see how much effort will be put in a book when the publisher knows that the author is a goldmine.
Although I think some of the stories could have ended stronger, this is my favorite collection of novellas for any series ever.
I read the original 3 stories when they were published online and LOVED them at that time and asked Leigh once if she'd ever published a collection of Grisha tales.
They were even better the second time around, and the new stories were magical as well.
Although a few specific locations are mentioned, I don't think you need to have read any of the Grisha books to understand these stories.
The Language of Thorns takes inspiration from different fairy tales and Leigh tells them in such a unique way so that it belongs to the Grishaverse.
And yes, I know the original fairytales were dark, but Leigh does it in a way that makes them even more unique.In the book, there are 3 new stories and 3 other ones that were originally in e-book format.
I knew I was in for some dark and twisted stuff since the tales are from the Grishaverse.
I loved that story mainly because of the characters, the lyrical writing, how Leigh takes mermaids/sirens and turns it into something different.
3.5 stars
whoever came up with the idea of leigh bardugo writing a bunch of twisted, justice-filled fairytales set in the grishaverse in a beautiful illustrated edition should be knighted and given a lifelong pension of cookies and hugs.WHAT A PERFECT THING.review to come
“You see, some people are born with a piece of night inside, and that hollow place can never be filled – not with all the good food or sunshine in the world. That emptiness cannot be banished, and so some days we wake with the feeling of the wind blowing through, and we must simply endure it as the boy did.”  Beautiful. Haunting. Intriguing. Bardugo can create such magic with her beautiful writing! This was exactly what I needed to restore my love for Bardugo's writing after I was disappointed
This book is a collection of six fairytale-like illustrated stories set in the Grishaverse.
Stunning illustrations This collection features the different worlds that Bardugo creates, and these stories are filled with creepiness and intrigue.
This story is from Zemeni and is retelling of a sort of mix between  Cinderella and Beauty and the Beast, about a strong hearted ordinary girl and a beastly prince.
Even if you haven’t read any Bardugo books yet and if you're interested in dark twists in fairytales, then this one is perfect for you!
This tales might be told on a dark night by a villager living in Ravka.Bardugo’s stories, containing elements of both fantasy and horror, include elements of traditional fairy tales like “Hansel and Gretel,” “The Little Mermaid,” and “The Nutcracker and the Mouse King,” but morals are twisted into something new and traditional tropes are subverted.
Bardugo takes fairy tale tropes apart, examines their assumptions, and recasts them in new and often much more logical ways, often with an eye toward feminist values and empowerment of women.The six stories are:❧ “Ayama and the Thorn Wood:” In a troubled kingdom, there’s a parallel between the royal family and a poverty-stricken one: both families have a favored, handsome older child and a younger one that is unattractive and despised.
" Sometimes the unseen is not to be feared and that those meant to love us most are not always the ones who do.”  Though I've read the witch of duva before and the too clever fox, the rest are new to me.Ayama and the thorn wood 5 stars The too clever fox 3 stars The witch of Duva 4 stars The soldier Prince 5 stars Little knife 4 stars When water sang fire 3.5 stars I've never been a fan of folklores but Leigh changed that plus I'll read anything she writes and this was incredible. The world bui
Though I've read the witch of duva before and the too clever fox, the rest are new to me.Ayama and the thorn wood 5 stars The too clever fox 3 stars The witch of Duva 4 stars The soldier Prince 5 stars Little knife 4 stars When water sang fire 3.5 stars I've never been a fan of folklores but Leigh changed that plus I'll read anything she writes and this was incredible.
The world building and character development that are like 50 pages long for each story is amazing.
The writing is superb and I loved it, I wanted to see how it ends at the same time I want to savor it.
4.5 stars "In the year that summer stayed too long, the heat lay upon the prairie with the weight of a corpse." Can we please talk about what a goddamn gift of a writer Leigh is? Beautiful writing, to me, isn't how many constellations you can find in a love interest's freckles, or stringing together a tinsel chain of adjectives, but the ability to reinvent words. Look at that sentence. It captures the fly-buzzing, desolate atmosphere perfectly while lending a new dimension to the word corpse.The
Primarily a Nutcracker retelling, all I can say is, if this what Kaz and everyone in Ketterdam grew up listening to, no wonder they turned out to be morally deficient, gun-wielding gangsters.Mother's Favorite goes to the Zemini-originated Ayama and the Thorn Wood.
The coveted Fan-Voted Award goes to When Water Sang Fire from Fjerda.
(No, I won't tell you who is) Me, personally, didn't enjoy it as much because it shared a bit too many similarities to Marissa Meyer's the Little Mermaid retelling from Because You Love to Hate Me: 13 Tales of Villainy.
Absolutely amazing. Every story is brilliantly evocative and so so so painful.
