https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/326148.A_History_of_Mathematics
Anyone looking for a good work on the history of mathematics could certainly consider Boyer's seminal work, which is nowadays readily available in second and third editions.I've used the book for decades as a welcome reference work.One of the editions shown on GR warns that familiarity with college level math is recommended for readers.
There are way more words than equations!!There are exercises and problems presented at the end of chapters, which the author has divided into three categories: The first few are general questions which ask the reader to organize the information in the chapter into the historical framework; then there are questions requiring proofs or mathematical operations to get answers; and finally more advanced exercises.
الكتاب يعطي نظرة عامة إلى تاريخ الرياضيات بداية من الحضارات القديمة إلى العصر الحديث. مفيد جدًّا لمن لديه اهتمام في معرفة الأدوار التي احتلتها الشخصيات المشهورة في الرياضيات. أيضًا في أكثر من مناسبة يقدم للقارئ الطرق التي اتبعها الرياضيون في التوصل للنظريات الجديدة.اكتفيت بأربع نجوم لأن الاثباتات التي قدمها كان بإمكانها أن تكون أكثر تنظيمًا، إضافة إلى أنه يحتاج المزيد من الرسوم البيانية في وجهة نظري، بدلًا من الاعتماد على مخيلة القارئ.
For instance, it shows that certain theorems were known to the oriental nations like China and India, and that a lot of things had to be rediscovered after the whole rigmarole with the fall of empires and nations and the destruction of ancient repositories of knowledge.It starts with counting and goes on through the Egyptians, Babylonians, Greeks and Romans.
After the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire, we follow mathematical thought to India, China and Arabia.
Throughout the book, it covers quadratics and how the ancients thought of them and goes on through the founding of Calculus and Analysis.
Purchased near the Penn campus at a lovely used bookstore apparently tended to by a lovely grey-haired couple (think: camel wide wale cords and maroon boiled wool slippers).http://www.biblio.com/bookstore/house... Unfortunately this book is difficult to read in bed as I keep wanting to fetch the quad rule paper and work on math problems as the Babylonians did. So it's slow going. Oh, base 10; how status quo you have become! What better commentary on norm-shifting than the "fixed" (<-- two syllables, please) truth of math? Am I right? 2+2=5? R D R R ?
Batter and deep fry any subject with a crispy coating of history and I am your gal. I know this was written in 1968, but the ancient and prehistory sections are not as deep or comprehensive as they could be. The upside is, makes me want to look into the archaeology of math, and if there isn't such a field already, one should invent it.
I am certain that I read the English version of this book as part of my History of Mathematics class while doing my MAT in secondary mathematics. I loved doing the ancient mathematics!Must re-read for a proper review.Shira
Un'opera colossale sui progressi della matematica. Dalle origini del concetto di numero fino a Bourbaki.
Excellent. Very well written, and readable with the history not taking a back seat to the mathematics. The mathematics are used to support the history. Those without a math background can enjoy this quite well, but the more math background the better. Mathematical knowledge up to and including differential and integral calculus helps!
Good book. Worth reading atleast twice. Exercises given truly showcase how human thought evolved and it ia very helpful
I loved the areas that were written about the history. I got a bit lost with some of the more advanced mathematics.
I registered a book at BookCrossing.com!http://www.BookCrossing.com/journal/14340362
I know it is old, but I've read older (math) books that were far more interesting.
I know a book like this can't go too in-depth, but an in-depth look into one proof or problem of the greatest minds wouldn't be too much.
Euclid's proof of the Pythagorean theorem would have been nice.
There are little to no proofs and this really disappointed me.
Journey Through Genius, The Great Theorems of Mathematics (Dunham), Number Theory and Its History (Ore) and Zero: The Biography of a Dangerous Idea (Seife) are all superior in how it presents its material.
Iniziamo dalle dimensioni: spropositate, un librone di tante tante pagine. Ma non bisognapreoccuparsi, perche' la lettura scorre via molto ma molto veloce. A patto che si abbiano:1- voglia di mettersi a ragionare su un ogni singolo passaggio e capitolo:2- un minimo di interesse per la storia, per la matematica e per la storia della matematica:3- conoscenze di aritmetica e algebra abbastanza elevate.Nel mio caso, i tre requisiti sono soddisfatti. Cio' che manca e' il tempo e quindi la lettura procede giocoforza a rilento.Libro altamente consigliato, da leggere con calma, magari per hobby come faccio io.
Iniziamo dalle dimensioni: spropositate, un librone di tante tante pagine. Ma non bisognapreoccuparsi, perche' la lettura scorre via molto ma molto veloce. A patto che si abbiano:1- voglia di mettersi a ragionare su un ogni singolo passaggio e capitolo:2- un minimo di interesse per la storia, per la matematica e per la storia della matematica:3- conoscenze di aritmetica e algebra abbastanza elevate.Nel mio caso, i tre requisiti sono soddisfatti. Cio' che manca e' il tempo e quindi la lettura procede giocoforza a rilento.Libro altamente consigliato, da leggere con calma, magari per hobby come faccio io.
Uno di quei libri che merita l'articolo davanti: IL Boyer, il libro perfetto per chiunque si voglia avvicinare alla Storia della Matematica. C'è tutto quello che si potrebbe desiderare: chiarezza espositiva, perfetta divisione in capitoli, bibliografia eccellente per approfondire ogni argomento, esempi su esempi per illustrare ogni concetto... Consigliatissimo, peccato solo che chi denigra la matematica non arriverà mai a leggerlo ed a capire quale eccezionale impresa, collettiva ed individuale, essa sia.
Un bel libro, secondo me solo per appassionati di matematica, in particolare da 3/4 in avanti adatto solo a chi possiede un livello universitario, perché inizia a riferirsi a aree e teoremi senza spiegarli più, rendendone quindi necessaria la conoscenza.Ho trovato interessante notare la strana sequenza che ha seguito lo sviluppo della matematica, per certi versi l'inverso di quella che viene spiegata oggi (interi, reali, limiti, derivate, integrali).Piccola ma pure sempre rilevante la parte dedicata a matematici non occidentali (cinesi, arabi e indiani)
This literally took me a whole year to read this book! My husband bought this book as a Christmas present for me, and I felt obligated to read it. Every night I would read a couple of pages. I think that there must be other history of math books that are more interesting and engaging than this book. I have a couple of other ones on my shelf, and maybe I'll tackle another one next year. Maybe...
Very enlightening and entertaining,a pleasure to read and share with the backstage detailsof math thinkers and their lives and motivesbrings math down to reality and yet celebratesthe imagination and creative of so many thinkers
wow
its good
Ouch I read for a class. Interesting but tough to just sit down and enjoy.
to understand the history of mathematics
Just a marvelous story of thought development over thousands of years. This quite non-math guy had to skim some parts, but it was quite accessible and satisfying.
this book helped me alot on writing my thesis
A very interesting book. Boyer is a classic text and I cannot bestow on it any new praise.
I've used this as reference and found it definitely accessible for those with college level math. I need to read it all in order to give a proper review.
I admit, I have not read the entire thing, but I made a good-faith effort and have read over 300 pages to date. I think that counts as reading it.
geek in me thoroughly enjoyed this book
I will let you know when I finish...
My edition is the revised 2nd edition, revised by Uta C. Merzbach and sits on the shelf next to my venerable copy of Bell. It is a pleasure to poke into.
