https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9972053-if-you-ask-me
If one has no sense of humor, one is in trouble. Oh Betty, you are too precious for this world.Betty White is a true American icon - she's simply magnificent from her candy-floss hair to her tippy-toes.  You don't luck into integrity. You work at it.  Betty White disperses advice and anecdotes in her novel - anywhere from her success to her pets to aging in Hollywood. I absolutely adored this novel - Betty is hilarious and an absolute doll through and through.I loved her attitude when she talks
Betty White disperses advice and anecdotes in her novel - anywhere from her success to her pets to aging in Hollywood.
I absolutely adored this novel - Betty is hilarious and an absolute doll through and through.I loved her attitude when she talks about animals and why they are so important to her life.
Animals don’t lie.
Animals don’t criticize.
In addition, I really enjoyed how Betty talks about getting older and loving it.
If I could be half the woman Betty White when I get to her age...Audiobook CommentsBetty White read her novel - and she is the best.Blog | Instagram | Twitter
He told me, "She really has a mouth on her but she is so sweet and funny it's hilarious."When a friend loaned me this book, I thought it was an autobiography.
If You Ask Me is more of a reflection on various aspects in her life, noticeably the last fifteen years.
Most of her reflections are simply good advice on how to live a satisfying life which is always nice to hear.
If You Ask Me was a nice way to spend a morning with a personality whose greatest talent is that she was simply always there.
Damn, that woman is dynamite with good genes.If You Ask Me is one of those books that makes you feel all good and fluffy.
And you just smile and eat your cookies in a sunny weather (even when in reality it is freezing and dark outside with a spoonful of snow) while turning the pages.It is all really nice and sweet, and you just adore Betty White and want to do a marathon of The Golden Girls afterwards (which is what I did, bless her).But, who Betty White really is, is always there under the surface, never really raising up to reach out to you.

Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/I grabbed this from the library after seeing my friend HFK's review a week or so ago when I was looking for something new to listen to on the drive to and from work. This fit perfectly into my 15-20 commute window and I was able to finish it in just a couple of days. While there's nothing real deep about this selection, if you like Betty White - you should like it just fine. And if you don't like Betty White?????
This is the sixth book Betty White has written but the first I have had the pleasure of reading.
I assume her other books contain the bulk of her life stories as this one didn't contain a lot of substance.
About a quarter of the book is just photos and title pages.
The margins on the pages are pretty wide so this is a book that can easily be read in a day.
Betty is so darn charming though that this is still an enjoyable read even if there isn't a lot of meat to the book.
*** 3.44 ***  "...“Animals don’t lie. Animals don’t criticize. If animals have moody days, they handle them better than humans do.”..." I love Betty White! I don't think that anything she does or touches could ever be awful, but I do have to admit, this book of biographical musings is not the best she has ever written. She was 89 years old when she wrote it and the cadence of the prose and way of writing make you feel like your grandma is telling you stories of her daily life. Nothing is wrong w
She was 89 years old when she wrote it and the cadence of the prose and way of writing make you feel like your grandma is telling you stories of her daily life.
Nothing is wrong with it, and Betty is a wonderful grandma to listens stories from, but there was nothing exceptional about it.
But it is what it is - Betty gifts us with a bit more of herself at this time in her life and we can only say thank you and keep adoring her from a far:):):) 
The book is just snippets and opinions, a lot about her love for animals and some about her passion - showbiz!
If you Ask Me: And of Course You Won't  narrated by the author, Betty White, is simply delightful. She talks about all kinds of different subjects, but the majority of them involved animals and how much she loves them. And I love that about her. The only flaw I found with this is that it was too short. I love you Betty, but I needed more! If you adore Betty White, then I highly recommend you listen to her narrate this audiobook!
Awwwww, Betty White. I haven't had grandparents in years and I want her! She loves animals possibly more than I do and she has a room full of stuffed ones (not taxidermied!). She tells them that she loves them. Out loud. Then again, Cloris Leachman would be a good grandma too. She might have a room full of liquor that she talks to.
3.5 stars :)How can you not love Betty White ? :)A fun collection of reminisces, an added bonus listening to it in Betty's voice... she's adorable and I want to adopt her as a grandma :)My favorite anecdotes were the ones from the proposal, the time she locked herself out of the house, and about her animals.Not much to say except this was a fun read... check it out:)
Who doesn't love Betty White?
I mean does anyone actually dislike her?
If so...why?I can remember watching Betty White on TV when I was a kid (sorry Betty but there aren't many performers I can still say that about) and she's just a sharp and just as funny (unless of course she's doing drama) as she ever was.This book is more a book of quick reminiscences on her life and then comments on what's going on NOW in her life.
We get a lot of vignettes about various parts of her life (I'd say especially her relationships with animals).Highly enjoyable so....enjoy.
A) In talking about age and how it shouldn't bother you, she says that Estelle Getty was TERRIFIED of getting old and sick, to the point that the writers of Golden Girls had to be careful of the kind of jokes they wrote for her (heartbreaking since she was the first to die, and suffered in a bed for something like 7 years before going).
B) Also on the topic of age, saying that she always assumed she'd be the FIRST of the Golden Girls to go because she's the oldest, and now she's the last left standing.
Betty White reading a book by Betty White about Betty White's thoughts and memories, what's not to love. The acres, comedian, activist and beautiful human let's her mind fly open and give us some tidbits into her soul. She is a treat in this this to short novel. I didn't even finish weeding half my yard and the book was done :(
This was a cute story that took me very little time to read, because it is so short. The book was short, simple and cute. There wasn't anything really eye-opening or super special about this book, but I did find it interesting when she talked about her love for animals and all the volunteering and adopting of pets that she does.This book was written like an interview.A solid 3 stars.
It's Betty White, what's not to love! I listened to this on audiobook and it was fantastic, I loved hearing Betty talk about her experiences, she is a wonderful human being. I would for sure recommend this book for a little inspiration, some laughs, and for an overall enjoyable experience!
I got the feeling that even if there was nothing in particular she wanted to bring across, Betty White just really likes to write.
In these past couple of years, Betty White seems to have become some sort of icon and if you have seen interviews with her, you know she is a delight.
So, summing up: I like Betty White, I liked this book but it really was very short and didn't have a lot of "content" so to say.
I guess I'll have to pick up one of her other five or six books if I want more Betty.
A fun, short bit of Betty White's life. I didn't expect anything more than a feel-good set of anecdotes & that's what was delivered. I hadn't realized she was so into animal rescue & that was nice to find out as were her times with Coco the gorilla & a couple of whales. Good stuff, kind of a quick draft of good clean fun to cleanse the palate from the last book I read.
It’s a really short book, the audio was only 2.5 hours long and since I listen at 1.5X it went through in a little over an hour.It didn’t go into much about her childhood or anything really before she was on Golden Girls, most of it has to do with her recent commitments and her recent work.I love getting to know peoples quirks and weird habits – and this book didn’t leave me wanting.She’s an animal fanatic, she’s donated a ton of money to conservation and animal welfare and she refuses to be a part of any movie with even the slightest bit of animal abuse.
Betty has a pretty impressive resume. She's an actress, writer, comedian, puzzle solver, stuffed animal collector, animal rights activist and has lived to see a lot of the world change. However, this lighthearted memoir is just a small piece of Betty. 2 stars on audio. 1 star content.
From the book jacket - Seven-time Emmy winner Betty White’s wit and wisdom take center stage as she tackles topics like friendship, romantic love, aging, television, fans, love for animals, and the brave new world of celebrity.
I love Betty White, and some of the essays in this book are spot on perfect.
It’s a very fast read, and includes several photos.Still, giving credit where credit is due, White is a lovely woman and has a keen sense of humor.
It was really fun to hear these humorous and poignant anecdotes read by the author, who used her great sense of timing and easy way of expressing herself through each segment and story.
It was neat to hear stories about Betty White from the various eras she's lived through.
From the beginning of television and her passion for animals to computers and friendships and her career, Betty White shares her heart and humor with the listener as if they were the closest of friends.
She's quirky and sweet and very caring, not to mention grateful for her experiences, career, and the people and animals around her.
I enjoyed hearing Betty White narrate this book of disparate essays, sort of like hearing your grandmother talk about her life, dispense a little advice and maybe chide you for sweating the small stuff. There aren’t any great revelations or aha moments, but you can appreciate this woman’s joie de vivre and the gratitude she feels for a life well-lived.
This lady is absolutely amazing and no one will tell me otherwise. How could I not give her 5 stars? Plus:This happenedAnd it was the best day of my life.
What makes it super-awesome though, is that it was read by the author herself, Betty White!"If You Ask Me" is a collection of the author's thoughts on many different subjects.
You really get to understand what a down to earth person Betty White is.
One of the perks to an audio book is you know exactly what the author's inflection is.
You get the story exactly as it should be told, not just your interpretation of it as you read.Whether you pick up the traditional book or the audio version, you'll get wonderful insight from a funny lady who has seen a lot in her life!
What an Adorable lady. Reads like your sitting down together for a heart-warming chat
Ik was al fan van Betty White, maar nu ik weet dat ze een stationery verslaving met me deelt vind ik haar nog duizend keer toffer 😊
Unfortunately I missed her birthday special recently so instead, I watched a ton of Youtube videos of her, in current and old roles, on Inside the Actors Studio, on old game shows, etc.This book was a short, cute read about her life, written in 2011.
That's probably the problem: my expectations.I am glad I read this though - it definitely gives you a window into White's mind.
At least I am in good company.[This is something I'd say:]The trainer, whose name is Dennis Christian, asked if I would like to meet their beluga whales.
This book was a very short read for me.
It was short biographical blurbs.Pros: Betty White photos.
Betty's love for animals that bleeds through the pages and are mentioned in over half of the book.
In order to make the book appear to be long the margins were so huge if you put both sides together it would be equal to or more than the space that the writing occurs.
There were several instances in the short book that the same anecdote was mentioned almost verbatim two or three times.
Just let the book be shorter.
If she only had time to write this much, let it be.
To say that Betty White's latest book—I suppose we should call it that, as it's tough to deny that it got printed and appears on bookstore and library shelves—is a bit random and scattered, is an understatement.
White's oddball collection of mini-essays reads more like a handful of dictated and unedited blog entries than any kind of memoir.
She discusses her health (which is great for her age—she tries to maintain her weight, you know, and all those stairs in her home really keep her exercised!), her guest appearance on Saturday Night Live (it was fun!), and her pets (she had a lot!), and .
super quick read. Really, how can you not like Betty White?
