https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/741200.My_Brother_Jack
3.5 starsIt was only after I finished reading My Brother Jack by George Johnston that I discovered it had been the winner of the 1964 Miles Franklin award.
The writing was exceptional and I have a whole new understanding of what it was like in Melbourne, Australia during the 1920's, 30's and 40's.This very character driven story focuses on the fictional Merdith family.
Whilst the story itself was perfectly fine, the setting, the time and place was the real hero for me.
I have since learnt this is the first of a trilogy, the second was also a Miles Franklin award winner so I guess I'm not done with the Merdith family yet.
I read it years ago when I was a reporter on The Sydney Morning Herald.
George Johnstone and Charmian Clift were everybody's dream - ran away for love and lived on a Greek island.
My Brother jack was the first book in a trilogy that was to define their dream.
This was the 1960's and Charmian Clift was writing a beautiful column for The Herald.
Martin died young and so did his sister, I believe.All that was fifty years ago and now even the nightmare has faded.
We read My Brother Jack for our book group.
My Australian friends had recommended this, after taking me to visit the last house in which the author lived. Very enjoyable reading another country's coming-of-age classic, full of wonderful descriptions of 1920-45. Looking at other reviews here, it's another case of a book that high schoolers probably aren't ready for (seems it shows up on year 12 reading lists) but that older fans of literature will savor.
I hated this book when I read it in high school but several years later when I read it at Uni I absolutely loved it. There's something to be said for reading a book at just the right time for it to have maximum impact.
It's told from the perspective of David, a writer, and there are notes in the back of the book about some of the biggest differences between the author's life and reality.David and Jack's story begins when their parents return from WWI, their father to great acclaim as a returning soldier and their mother quietly from her time as a nurse.
What I really loved about the book was the depth of detail and the relationships as well as the brief viewpoint of a world war from the Australian end, something I don't believe I've ever read, before.
This remark calls to mind the episode in My Brother Jack, where David first brings home the typewriter: “I told you the sly young devil was scribbling all that muck in his room…” says David’s father, as he berates his wife for bringing such failings to the family.
Suburbia must be cast aside if intellectual or creative pursuits are to be undertaken.This book is enjoyable and enlightening read (despite the negativity there are some moments of absolute hilarity - the gum tree incident for example) that perfectly captures a particular time and mood in Australia.
I read this book years ago and some of the imagery remains with me. Especially the part when as a young boy he thought all adult males were meant to have a limb missing. This was because all the men he knew had returned injured from the war. This is a great Australian novel.
I did like this book but thought it an odd title as Jack wasn’t in it much
This is the best book I have ever read!
Which is strange as I was given this book as a gift three years ago and kept avoiding it as I thought it would be slow and stodgy, but how wrong I was.I think George Johnston has fashioned the great Australian novel and younger writers will either have to give up that as an aim of just write books to the best of their ability.This book mirrors my father and mothers lifetimes and covers the same momentous periods of turbulence and turmoil.
It would be interesting to know if any other generation has gone through such tumultuous times.
An Australian classic, My Brother Jack is the story of Davy and Jack Meredith, two brothers growing up in a Melbourne suburb during the years between the First and Second World War.  Born to a drunken, abusive father and a caring, loving mother, the boys are distinctively different from an early age. While the older brother Jack is a tough fighter, who drinks, swears and wenches, the younger brother Davy lives a quiet existence under the shadow of his brother, preferring the company of books.Dur
An Australian classic, My Brother Jack is the story of Davy and Jack Meredith, two brothers growing up in a Melbourne suburb during the years between the First and Second World War.
While the older brother Jack is a tough fighter, who drinks, swears and wenches, the younger brother Davy lives a quiet existence under the shadow of his brother, preferring the company of books.During the depression years, the fortune of the brothers starts to change.
With the relationship of the brothers taking 180 degrees turn, Jack looks up to his younger brother, showing the type of admiration that as youngsters, Davy felt towards jack.
I also thought that this was originally going to be a war book - tell us the story of David Meredith's time in the war and lets be honest that would be interesting - the psychological harm of war is ALWAYS a hard subject to bear - but instead we got "I went to an art class...A girl was murdered and I was suspected...I met a girl at this party...we got engaged" which is nowhere near as interesting.One complaint that is trivial; Jack plays almost zero part in this book - the book could have been called "my life as a journalist" and nothing would really change.I do like everything else - the violence the Meredith kids had to go through was shocking to read, I admire Johnston for being able to combine two people he knew into one character.Overall this wasn't a bad book but this is FAR from my taste.
The book chronicles the lives of two brothers: Jack and David as the grow up in Australia.
Their parents both left the brothers and their two daughters to serve in the army and the nurses' corps during World War I.
We get the story mainly from David's point of view as he grows up in a house full of violence and discord, he admires his brother Jack.
It is a fascinating look at how the lives of both brothers take different paths.
It is also an interesting look at life in Australia in the period between the wars.
A fantastic description of suburban Australia between the wars. Also surprising the relevance that parts of the novel had to today's society. Very visual with George Johnston using words to paint a 3D image in brilliant colour that evoked a real sense of the times. Recommended for anyone interested in between wars/great depression/Australian literature.
I read this years ago and really loved it- I was discussing Australian literature with someone who lives in Perth and she hadn't heard of it so I don't know how widely read it is over here. Anyway - it's a poignant ' coming of age' story - interesting and intelligent.
I absolutely love My Brother Jack and have read it every few years since first reading it in highschool, each time I read it I love it even more.
At the beginning of the book I really felt for him and his attempts at figuring out who he is and what life is going to be like for him.
I felt he was really lucky but didn't appreciate it and only touched on the surface of how he was feeling about where he had ended up and what he had done.
This may be because it's the first of a series but I'm not exactly intrigued enough to continue with the next book.I enjoyed the book as a different perspective of life during that time period in Australia.
It was a sad story and I felt really sad at the end.
George Johnsons novel is a great reflection of life in Melbourne in the early 19th century which encompasses the first and second world wars and their impact on a families relationships.
Personal, warm and detailed, he takes us on a journey of his key relationships (Brother Jack, Mother, Father, Sister, neighbours, work colleagues) and shares how they adjust to the changing conditions they face.George’s father returns from the first war and has a lot of trouble adjusting back to family life which impacts everyone in the household.
The book improves in the second half when the story gets more interesting because it explores the fraught and fragile nature of David’s intrapersonal and familial relations.
The descriptive style is very useful in exploring the themes of the book as experienced through David’s feelings of separateness and rejection of his family.
This writing is incredibly good and I think that had the book been all about a character who is struggling with inferiority complex or feeling like an imposter or disowning one’s past/roots I would have enjoyed the book more.
Considered a classic "coming of age" story in Australia, I started this book with great expectations.
Considering I couldn't easily get it in the US, and my daughter ultimately brought it back in a suitcase with her from Sydney, I was hopeful it was going to be an amazing and life changing read!
And then, out of no where, bam, the story changed and it was as if it was another book, and I am wondering is anything going to HAPPEN!?
There is a sequel to this book, and I am debating about whether I will read it.
Drawn largely from Johnston's own life experience, this is a brilliant tale of two brothers with very different life paths, told over a lifetime.
I recently read a biography of George Johnston's wife, Charmian Clift (whose name is spelt incorrectly on the dust jacket of this book) and I've also read some of her works of fiction.
Her hand is seen clearly in this novel, both from her own writing style, and from the fact that she 'typed up' her husband's notes while he was writing, and 'tidied' them (ie re-wrote a lot of them) in the process.
As with most of her prose, it's hauntingly evocative, although I'm sure the inherent misogyny is pure Johnston.
Firstly let me start by saying that when I saw the cover and read the back of the book I expected something very different to what I got.I absolutely loved the first part of the book.
I thought the portrayal of Australia during the depression and how people managed it was very interesting.
The part about Australia during the war was also very good.My main issues with the book was that Jack didn't really feature much in the book so the title baffled me a bit now I have read it.
I thought he was quite cruel.
I was saved from reading this book as part of the school curriculum at great loss. Why didn't anyone ever tell me about this classic? The language is lyrically and the picture colorful. The reader is taken back in time and put into the docks and streets of Melbourne.A blog post stemmed from reading this book. This post celebrates the fading art of long sentences: https://ozhamada-observes.blogspot.co...
This is the first third of the life of a journalist who would be a writer, focusing on his growing up years, marriage and life in teh suburbs, and in WW2. I enjoyed reading it and found it very thought provoking in its description of Australian 'characteristics' and life in the suburbs, which he superficially pursues then reacts against.
Brilliant, but not 5 stars because during the first half of the novel, there were several references to things that happened later. These promises of something else to come were broken and most of the time never refered to later in the book.Second half was better crafted than the first.
3.5 for me, probably. It was a compelling read and flew through it pretty quickly. But David Meredith (and, to an extent, George Johnston) is a miserable human being and the "ironic" self-loathing never quite makes up for the blatant misogyny and racism in the book.
mhm
This is a classic for Australians and anyone who has a brother.
3.5 stars. Some great writing but somehow incomplete.
classic coming of age novel
Phenomenal. A true (Australian) classic.
