https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/603204.How_to_Cook_Everything
Contact me immediately; I'm not too old for adoption.) He's clear and easy to read and he explains things and he generally makes me way less crazy than the Joy of Cooking (I own four copies of three different editions of that one, because people keep buying it for me, and I never use it.
Yes. I read cookbooks for fun, but that's an entirely different post.)Pick something that sounds too delicious, just one thing, and make it.
Say I've avoided...oh, maybe...beans for years, but now want to cook them myself; he doesn't just throw a bunch of recipes at me, he talks about how to work with beans in general, noting specific exceptions and sticking points.
He tells me about different types of beans and their flavors and "behaviors." This makes it an indispensable reference tool.Another part of what I like is what has driven many people away form this book: its lack of glossy color pictures.
Though I love my  Williams-Sonoma New American Cooking, with its close-up pictures of well presented delectibles, I find the photos can be distracting.
And Mark Bittman's How to Cook Everything (HTCE): Simple Recipes for Great Food.Mark Bittman opens the book with a general statement of philosophy which identifies his audience.
In this case, his audience are precisely those who are starting from nothing, new households of people who did not grow up learning from their mothers and grandmothers on how to cook.
one who professes) he has opinions that he shares, based on his philosophy that cooking can be done, and there is no value in making things harder, more complicated, more fancy, then necessary.
And once people learn more and gain more skills, they can form their own opinions starting from what he gives.So, how are the recipes?
I first saw this cookbook in the kitchen of one of my favorite families, the Gambells, in New Haven, and the pages were falling out of the binding from extensive use - a pretty good recommendation.
what did they expect from the author of "The Minimalist" column in the New York Times?
Not only was the book useful, but it inspired my mom to get me another giant cookbook of the same color and shape ( The Gourmet Cookbook: More Than 1000 Recipes).
I've had this for a few years (Thanks Santa) and have done more reading than cooking, my fault, probably a crime.
I've renamed it How to Cook Nothing, but now that my wife is returning to work soon I'll be trying out many more recipes.
I already know the little food essays that dot the pages and open the chapters are excellent, because the writing is clear, learned, and vivid.
I want to keep writing but the kids are hungry and I have to cook.
Grill cheese sandwiches, page 166.
I absolutely love this book. It's never let me down. We keep it on our kitchen cookbook shelf and that's where it's staying! Highly recommend, especially for the younger ones just starting out...
In fact, cooking is a simple and rewarding craft, one that anyone can learn and even succeed at from the get-go." There are the usual features in this cookbook (and welcome for all that): ingredients that ought to be in your kitchen (page xiii),equipment, techniques (such as grilling, broiling, roasting, sauteing, etc.).
On page 457 and after, he describes how to sautee pork chops eight different ways.
He describes the different ways of cooking them and then provides recipes.
All in all, then, a nice cookbook for people who want to cook for themselves and may not be interested in more complicated recipes and cooking.
At the same time, I find that I rarely use this book, unless I'm looking for a simple recipe for vegetables or salad dressing or something else that is to serve as a complement to the main course I'm making.
There's a fine line between simple and bland and unfortunately, Bittman seems to have crossed over to bland for many recipes.
The recipes I've tried all turn out just fine, but they're usually in need of much more flavor.
I find it's best to use these recipes as a base and then to add to it, according to your taste.That said, I wouldn't want to do without this book.
This book is exactly what it promises!
It's a huge block of a book, and walks you through the very basics of almost everything.
Which is exactly what I needed.I've eaten out almost every single meal since 2006 or so, and this book made a daunting task seem manageable.
This book was very clear about what a person needed and what they could do without at first.There is also the "How to cook everything vegetarian" book, which I may have to pick up, as I've recently gone vegetarian.
But this book has hundreds and hundreds of vegetarian recipes, so there's no rush.Well worth the money I think!
The title is no hyperbole: author and cooking expert Mark Bittman has included 2,000 recipes covering everything you would ever possibly want to cook, from the mundane to the exotic.
For the truly adventurous (not me), Bittman includes recipes for making your own ketchup, mayonnaise, grainy mustard, chapatis, flavored oils, vinegars, chili and curry powders, garam masala and chile pastes.
And Bittman recreates a lot restaurant favorites, some accessible to novice cooks, others recommended only for the experienced.
Newbies will benefit from Bittman’s step-by-step directions for all of the basics, while advanced cooks will find plenty to love, as well.
Highly recommended for all cooks.
It's fortunate that my son loves reading as much as everyone else in my family because he's gotten many books as presents over the years.
For his birthday, I got him a copy of How to Cook Everything - 2,000 Simple Recipes for Great Food by Mark Bittman.
Other than Joy of Cooking my family's idea of basic cookbooks was La Gastronomique and The Art of French Cooking - both wonderful and basic in their own ways, but not basic in their recipe writing.This is a really cool cookbook.
Cooking is full of endless variations and I really like how he explicates this.
Simple breakdowns of classics with very interesting twists.
We did the "Adult's Birthday Dinner." Here's the breakdown of the recipes I've eaten and the cookbook club cooks who cooked them.
Molly - Spicy Lentil Soup: Definitely one to recreate on a chilly Sunday.
I love hearty vegetarian fare.
Molly - Sicilian Onion Pizza: Great crust, better than I expected toppings Surprisingly mellow considering the volume of onions involved.Sheela - Catfish with Brown Butter: (was supposed to be Skate but Skate was not to be found in MN in February).
The cooking techniques in this book are well explained and largely foolproof, and give a great starting point for situations like the one I'm finding myself in today, a classic case of "WTF do I do with these sunchokes I impulse-bought at the farmer's market?!"However, the recipes in this book are almost totally uninspiring to me as someone with above-average cooking skill and interest.
However, the soup recipe instructs me to peel the sunchokes, something that I now know that I can skip thanks to Bittman's instructions in HTCE.
Both books purport to briefly cover every kind of food that Americans used to cook, cook now or ought to cook.However, while the sizes of the two books are the same, the type in Bittman's book is much larger.
And if I was in that kind of hurry, I'd eat out.Apart from the type size, the other notable difference between these two books is the binding -- our copy of Bittman's book fell apart after a few years of kitchen use, while the Joy keeps on punching.
Shame on Wiley for cutting corners -- a working cookbook needs a good binding.
The recipes are fairly simple and use ingredients that are generally readily available.
Many of these explanations are not necessary, since you will probably buy your fish already filleted, etc.
However, it is good to have instructions available for anyone that wants to try something new.
For the most part, I thought the recipes were foods that people would actually eat.
This makes the cookbook much more useful.
Overall, I thought this cookbook was great for anyone just starting out and would make a great gift for someone that is just moving out on their own or just learning to cook.
Does NOT tell you how to cook EVERYTHING Shoes? Monkey wang? No recipes for those.Still, a very good reference book and the recipes are pretty easy.
I can Thomas Keller the hell out when I feel like it, but when I'm trying to figure out what to do with a jar of egg whites, a pint of homemade mayo, some leeks and the whole fish I bought at the market on impulse; or when I'm brain-dead after work or in one of those odd depressive fits that occasionally move through my brainscape like a storm front, when just remembering to feed myself feels like a small victory; this reminds me how to turn stuff into food, reliably and with minimal fuss.
This stuff is easy and you shouldn't be scared of it because really, fish is fish, and you're smart enough to figure out how to handle it, so stop freaking out."I have the iPad app, not the regular book, but the contents are the same, with plenty of great perks.
In this book, most sections and groups of recipes are prefaced with what a basic chef would need to know but might not know if all they had was a recipe: how to cut a certain kind of meat, or how different kinds of heat work differently.And if you want fancy versions of recipes, those are here too, but they're listed as variations below the minimal base recipe; he'll typically say something like "try it with ingredient X instead of Y." I found this enormously helpful because it makes me think more like a chef working with flavor combinations instead of a culinary technician slavishly adhering to procedure.
This also reduces the likelihood that I'll feel the need for a special trip to the store for an ingredient, which makes me more likely to fire up my stove.
Truly simple recipes.
Julia turned me on to this guy, and this book is full of the kind of recipes you can read once and remember without having to keep referring back.
I have a shelf full of cookbooks (really the only type of book I still buy), but in two weeks I've cooked more things out of this one book than all the rest combined.
I cooked brussel sprouts for the first time in my life: loved them!
Bittman suggests that brussel sprouts were made for bacon...
the result: mmmm.....I may have to buy this giant behemoth of a book.
I love how he gives the basic recipe and then variations, e.g. here's chicken soup, now change a couple of ingredients and it's Asian chicken soup, or substitute this for that and it's Mexican chicken soup.
So you start to understand what the fundamental elements of a dish are, and what can you play with.
As someone who needs structure and is somewhat fearful of experimentation in the kitchen, that understanding helped my confidence.
And I love that the recipes are simple.
He doesn't overwhelm you with a long ingredients list, and he doesn't need to.
You can make something delicious with five ingredients.
Best all around cookbook ever! This is my go to book when I need information and a recipe for a new ingredient, or a recipe for an old classic, or to find something to make with what I have on hand. This would be the perfect gift for someone just setting up their own place. Bittman's clear, concise writing and simple approach to good food make it easy for the novice cook to read and use.
Great book for beginners to intermediate chefs. It is an essential guide to working a kitchen, grill, wok, stove, rotisserie, dutch oven, an oven, you name it! Leads you through all the ingredients you can imagine and what you should imagine as kitchen staples. A must have, read, keep and pass on. :)
The cooks Bible - this is fantastic. I reference it ALL the time.
This book provides what we hoped "The Joy of Cooking" would provide us, showing us how joyful cooking can be when you keep it simple.I think his mantra he writes about in the NY Times and elsewhere—the idea that our culture has gotten away from cooking simply because we complicate it—is spot on.
In this book he practices what he preaches, giving every person the know-how to make pretty much everything they can think of, simply.My favorite quotes from the introduction:"Everyday cooking is not about striving for brilliance but about preparing good, wholesome, tasty, varied meals for the ones you love.
Also, I was so horrible and clueless about cooking (baking and anything else to do with food included) that when my husband ran to the kitchen because the cookies were burning, I calmly told him - "it's OK.
So, as a person who really doesn't like cooking and who is easily intimidated by cooking (I'm still very intimidated by yeast.
I love baking breads, but all un-yeasted breads.
really intimidate the fledgeling cook within me), I love this book because it makes me feel like I can cook.
So did the Washington Post quote, "Think of it as a more hip Joy of Cooking"Them's fightin' words.
So I traded in my castoffs (sorry Yiddish Policeman's Union) and brought it home.So far, I feel a little weird about it.
Like I've brought home somebody else's grandma to pretend to be my grandma.
It's nice and all, maybe there's some stuff that's even better about this grandma than about my own, like maybe her recipe for Crisp-Cooked Sunchokes or Garam Masala, but...
Joy is my home.
I've only tried about 3 recipes from this book so far.
If you cook, you need this book.
If you don't cook and want to begin, this is (in my opinion) the best place to start.This book is noteworthy in that it's useful for both total novices and experienced cooks.
At the same time, he's very opinionated, and I totally agree with most of his views.
Given the incredible, exhaustive amount of ground the book covers, the overall quality is very high.
This is not just a collection of recipes - it's a comprehensive modern manual for home cooking.
This book literally walks you through how to use a kitchen and prepare food for human consumption.
(Don't let the number of cookbook reviews on here fool you - I love eating good food, I just find the daily preparation of it a drag.) I use this book often, evidenced by the fact that it opens to many favorite recipes automatically.
This is a great book for anyone wanting to learn the basics of choosing vegetables to understanding how to cook meat, to getting ideas of herbs to pair with dishes.
This (and it's companion, HTCE Vegetarian) quickly became two of my go-to cookbooks last year and helped me explore outside my usual cooking realms.
I'd set HTCE (and HTCEV) aside and fallen back into a cooking rut.
Last weekend I pulled HTCE back out, and was reminded again how great it is.
Plus, HTCE *finally* helped me roast a chicken well - I'd never quite gotten it right - and it was wonderful.
I have other excellent cookbooks too, definitely.
HTCE and HTCEV join those as ones that never quite make it back to the cookbook shelf (or at least not for long!)
I can't recommend this cookbook enough for anyone wanting to get more serious about cooking, and and as a general, extremely comprehensive primer.
A masterstroke of culinary utilitarianism: this book could make even the most dedicated recipe Googlers consult its written instructions instead.
Bittman writes in a clear and readable style, and excels in instructing the reader on various basic techniques and the function of ingredients.
Most importantly, every recipe in this book I have tried is incredibly good (although generally not for the diet-conscious).
This is a broad, thoughtful, and extremely polished book.
