https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/64417.The_Threepenny_Opera
With the help of his wife he enrolls a new beggar, but soon after, his daughter Polly does not come from the previous night, leading a run in with gangs and the law.As this was a play, reading was never going to match the real thing, especially as it contains music, but with a little imagination it's not hard to think what it would have been like up on stage, even whilst early Nazism looked on with evil eyes, and the fact Brecht used his plays to express his outrage and opposition to the National Socialist and Fascist movements, shows he was an important voice for those being oppressed.
With the "Threepenny Opera", Brecht unintentionally undermined his own poetic concept of the "epic theater" by having Kurt Weill compose some of the most stirring songs ever written in German.
So while the texts of the "Threepenny Opera" are clearly written with this goal in mind, the reason why it became and has stayed so immensely popular is the accessible and rousing music - the combination of societal criticism and musical extravaganza was fresh and exciting when the musical drama (it's not really an opera) was first staged in Berlin in 1928.
The story stars iconic characters like Mack the Knife (Mackie Messer), Low-Dive Jenny (Spelunken-Jenny) and Jonathan Jeremiah Peachum, the king of the beggars.
Perhaps it was an image of Ho Chi Minh in Fredrik Logevall's seminal Embers of War-- the thin, proud leader speaking to a congress of the French Communist Party, all of them white, bloated and indifferent?
All those flickering images from Pabst's film--it is a shock that I didn't reach for this play before.
The 18C play of John Gray is drenched in Brecht's mordant wit adapted, embellished and reborn with grim musings on sexuality and patriotism, emerging strident and timeless.
در «اپرای سه پولی» که نام نمایشنامه ای از برشت است. برشت به جامعهء بورژوازی میتازد، و با اشعار شیطنت آمیز و سلاح تمسخر به همهء آنها توهین میکند. ا. شربیانی
در «اپرای سه پولی» که نام نمایشنامه­ ای از برشت است. برشت به جامعهء بورژوازی می­تازد، و با اشعار شیطنت آمیز و سلاح تمسخر به همهء آنها توهین می­کند. ا. شربیانی
انسان با چه زندگی میکند؟ بیوقفه در حال شکنجه کردن، محروم ساختن، تکه پاره کردن، بریدن سر و دریدن انسان است.انسان تنها در فراموشی زندگی می کند و بی وقفه فراموش می کند که انسان است.
انسان با چه زندگی می‌کند؟ بی‌وقفه در حال شکنجه کردن، محروم ساختن، تکه پاره کردن، بریدن سر و دریدن انسان است.انسان تنها در فراموشی زندگی می کند و بی وقفه فراموش می کند که انسان است.
As a hardcore boho 'Beat' kid, I was raised with the soundtrack of Kurt Weil/Bertolt Brecht's "Threepenny Opera." In fact, Lotte Lenya was probably the first singing voice I heard after my Mom - who used to sing to me when I was a little child.Many years later I read the play/musical and was taken back at its cynical look in how society works. It's an amazing piece of theater and the music is and will always be superb.
Duro, spietato e allo steso tempo ironico e surreale. E' la vita del sottobosco umano, in cui il più sano ha la rogna... Forte la messa alla berlina della società dell'epoca, sono curiosa di vederlo rappresentato a teatro.
Clubbed me over the head with it's ideology. Headache.(Die Subtilität geht solange zum Theater, bis sie Brecht.Das Brecht auf Meinungsfreiheit.Aua, aua, mein Kopf.)
Was soll man zu solch einem Klassiker groß sagen, wenn man keine ausführliche Rezension schreiben will, es ist halt die Dreigroschenoper und allein vom Personal her schon ganz wunderbarer Stoff für Krimileser. Aber das Stück gehört halt auf die Bühne, das Lesen ist fein, aber im Theater macht es mehr her. Rein zur Lektüre bleibt ja da noch der Dreigroschenroman.
English translation of a German play about bourgeois criminals, entertaining hybrids, middle management dressed in gutter rags.
Perhaps there is a prayer in reservation, some old medicine that might ward off the approaching reckoning.The merging of the criminal with the middle class in the characters presents in interesting tension.
The criminal order is like the Old Testament substrate upon which Jesus erected his Good News.
In reality the poor are never truly Christian; 'poor' American evangelicals live on the sunny side of global poverty.
Even at Christianity's start, in Rome, there were countless poor people living in abject poverty.
I understand that this is one of the Great Masters of Theatre.
I learned in class that Brecht made a tremendous impact on theatre and started his own theatrical tradition.
I also learned that the whole signs-device and didactical bits were very novel in his time.
But it really, really disappointed all of my expectations.
I even saw it live and it definitely was a flop.
It did not deliver on any of the promised scandal or excitement.
The musical pieces were random and did not add much.
The characters were all unlikeable and the plot rather boring.
This play with the fun poems and songs and the colorful characters was really enjoyable to read even in translation. This play would be really enjoyable to catch in a theater. Written in 1920s Weimar Germany and set in Victorian England among demi-monde scenes of performers, low lifes and cut throats it is a really entertaining play with a leftish political message. A lot of fun.
I have to say that this is one of the greatest things I have ever read.
I think that, no matter what the man we are talking about, we all have the spirits of Mackie and Peachum buried somewhere in our hearts.
Having read it before I have seen it is an interesting experience, and the next step is to watch the videos I just found on YouTube of a Northweatern University performance that looks really great...http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R9sMDm...http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DNbnAF...In hindsight, I am angry that I missed the Cummings/Lauper performances from a couple of years ago.
This is almost a new favorite play, or at least in the top 5...
Take the first chance you can to attend a performance of this fabulous operetta with words by Bertolt Brecht and music by Kurt Weil.
For my part I like to tell people how much fun I had seeing L'opera de quatre sous au Grand Theatre de Quebec in 1982.
My dentist likes to tell me that she played Polly Peacham in Mandarin while a student in Hong Kong.Don't bother reading this thing unless it is on a course you are taking.
The text is nothing without Weill's music.
If you are the member of an amateur theatre company suggest reviving it next season, the next time your troupe meets.
When I read this I was already familiar with both Kurt Weill's music and the original Gay's Beggars' Opera that was inspiration for Brecht.
Inspired by their imagination and the political-economic upheaval that was taking place in this era artists like Brecht and Weill were changing the nature of theater and the music hall.
The era was all too short as the rise of the Nazi's and their devastating impact on culture would change the artistic world along with much else.
This was part of my reading for a course focusing on the "Degenerate Art" of Nazi Germany.

Sarà che avrò riletto quest'opera almeno 5 volte da 8 anni a questa parte, ma il suo messaggio e la sua spietata critica al mondo capitalista sono ancor oggi molto attuali e si scopre sempre qualcosa di nuovo nei dialoghi dei personaggi.
Spargel
"What's breaking into a bank compared with founding a bank? What's murdering a man compared with employing a man?"
At times very dark lyrics were set to catchy and hummable rhythms; at others Weill made his tunes intricate to juxtapose depth of feeling, perhaps the best examples being “Pirate Jenny” and “Call from the Grave.” The libretto, as a whole, is balanced, eccentric, and bursting with potential, and knowing it in full, it’s easy to see why a song like “Mack the Knife” rose to such popularity as a jazz standard.
Macheath (o Mackie Messer) e' il più grande è famoso criminale di Londra, un uomo senza scrupoli ma con molte caratteristiche che fanno trapelare la sua origine borghese (modi da gentiluomo, poca propensione per gli spargimenti di sangue ingiustificati, grande attenzione alla reputazione e abitudini dure a morire anche nei casi più estremi, come quella di andare per prostitute).Il signor Peachum, il "re dei mendicanti", e' un commerciante senza scrupoli che ha deciso di sfruttare la miseria altrui per arricchirsi.
Dies ist eine Bewertung auf Unterrichtsbuchniveau! Für ein Buch, dass im Deutsch Unterricht gelesen wurde war es wirklich leicht zu verstehen, was einem das Interpretationen schreiben natürlich nie erleichtert, aber man weiß klar und deutlich worum es geht und wo Konflikte wieso herrschen. Als Deutsch Lektüre war es wirklich mal eine Abwechslung zu den Büchern, in denen gefühlt kein Wort auf Deutsch ist, sondern es ist leicht geschrieben und die Worterklärungen am Rand helfen zur Not auch noch weiter.
الحاكم الدكتاتور الطاغية، والإقطاعي، والخائن، والعميل، كلهم لهم عند نجيب سرور مرادف «إنجليزي» بمعنى المحتل، العدو، القوة الأجنبية الغازية.
ويتأكد لنا هذا التحديد لـ «الإنجليزي» عند نجيب سرور حين يضع في نصه «ملك الشحاتين» شخصية «جورج» الإنجليزي الذي يكسب من وراء فساد قطبي المسرحية «أبو دراع ملك الشحاتين» و«أبو مطوة زعيم الحرامية».
ويصبح النزاع بين «الاستغلال» و«الرعب» وأيهما يظفر بالمعْلمة على البشر، والحكم في هذا النزاع هو «جورج» الذي يرجح أحد الجانبين وفقا لكمية ما يقبضه منهما، وهكذا يكون من المنطقي أن تعلو الصرخة الثائرة في وجه «الرعب» و«الاستغلال» و«المحتل»، هؤلاء «الإنجليز» جميعا.
Mack the Knife, as performed by Louis Armstrong.I'd never heard of The Threepenny Opera, Bertolt Brecht, Lotte Lenya, or Sweet Lucy Brown, so I have to thank The Dog's Bollox for that.
Maybe the 1989 movie Mack the Knife, or maybe the 1931 Dreigroschenoper itself.There seems to be a lot to catch - especially after reading Ms. Lenya's introduction, and Brecht's notes at the end.Tell me if this isn't the most brilliant line in the show:"And I did work out something: that the rich of the earth indeed create misery, but they cannot bear to see it.
ah, insane.First of all, I have to admit that I have heard the music score a long time before actually reading the play.
What to do if the theatre version changed some bits and that memory lurked around all the time I read the play?I have to say that the actual music inserts bugged the hell out of me while reading (no matter how I love the actual songs)...
Now, most of the times, the music inserts brought nothing new, or were completely out of plot whatsoever.Some of the banter worked better on stage, for me, too.
The most recent volume of Alan Moore's League of Extraordinary Gentlemen has beggars and prostitutes belting out heart-wrenching opera of cutting morality and justified anger.This isn't the first time Moore has led me to fine literature/stage work.
After reading the first two volumes of League, I went out and read Dracula, Invisible Man, War of the Worlds, and She. Later I read an interview with Moore that said he fully intended to whet his reader's appetite to search out the source material for his work.
Apparently he wanted to steer his readers to eighteenth century opera with this last installment.A quick search led me to The Beggar's Opera, which was interesting enough, the history more than the play itself.
The Threepenny Opera is a play I went to see in October/November of 2012.
I instantly fell in love with it, and had to read the script.Macheat - better known as Mac The Knife - marries Polly Peachum, the daughter of the King of the beggars, Mr Peachim.
Mac is a man that has several sentences on him, but they never have enough evidence to cash him in, and with him marrying Mr Peachums daughter and all, Mr Peachum sees it as his task to get Mac hanged.
However, beeing a very forseeable man, Macheat gets betrayed by his whores, and Mr Peachum is about to see his dreams come true...
For me, the Threepenny Opera did just that.
وفي معظم الحالات تتضمن نوعاً من الارتباك حول أخطاء غير مقصودة، كما تنتهي بنهاية سعيدة كثيراً ما تعكس شيئاً من المغزى الأخلاقي.المصدر ويكبيديا -حفظه الله و رعاه-طيب تعالى نشوف بقى هوا الأوبريت هدفه الترفيه يعني التسلية و أنا اتسليتو انا بأقراها مسرحية غنائية ممتعو بالعامية المصريةو منوعة بين الشعر العامي و النثر العامي برضوهحدوتة بتلف حوالين نفسها و تلففك وراهاما بين جورج و أبودراع و أبو مطوة و داير ميدور في حفل جلوس ملك الشحاتينكان أول شيء نجيب سرور -نوع مسرحي له أقراه-أكيد مش الأخير و أنهي بمقولة نجيب -رحمة الله عليه-"يا حارس السجن ليه خايف من المسجونهي الحيطان اللي بينا قش يا ملعونو لا السلاسل ورق و لا السجين شمشون"
I was reading a few other things but had tons of work to do (fucking end of semester!).
Anyway I read this play quite quickly.
It illustrates Weimar Berlin to a tee and also taught me a lot about the German anti-illusionist theater.
I love the whole concept, I am even considering joining our German theater troupe next year so I can act in plays by Brecht and go to Germany.
But I think this play is one you'd have to read (or watch) yourself (and not an American version of it cause they do it all wrong!!).
Must read more Brecht!!!!!!
Bertolt Brecht's The Threepenny Opera is utterly brilliant, a brilliance you notice on the first page all the way to the last page.
The Threepenny Opera has layer after layer of moral and political points of view that I could spend hours going into but its most prominent moral insight is that although Mackie the knife; thief, murder and crime lord, is eventually caught for his crimes.
A character born out desperateness and contempt for the wealthy is the villain more likely to be caught and tried then the Mr. Peachum the businessman who makes money off the poor.
