https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/118345.Sixty_Stories
Everything is grounded in the theme and overall message of the story, and you will find King Kong as a history professor socializing at a party, an adult stuck in middle school to do a clerical error, a reptilian lesbian confronting the infidelities of her human lover, a city wide balloon and an extraterrestrial president with possible mind-control all read with surprising normalcy.The comparisons to other great authors, especially the postmodernists like Pynchon, is difficult to avoid in a collection with such a wide range of styles as this one.
We will open our hearts and heads to you, Software Man, because we want to be understood and loved by the great lay public, and have our marvels appreciated by that public, for which we daily unsung produce tons of new marvels each more life-enhancing than the last.” Although the engineers are creating military weapons and chemicals to be used in war, the chief engineer refers to their creations as “life-enhancing.” Yet again another Donald Barthelme tale where language is distorted and twisted by the power people in order to maintain and expand their power.
And truly, is there a better, more consummate ending to a short story than this: "Then we shook hands, Mrs. Davis and I, and she set out Ralphward, and I, Maudeward, the glow of hope not yet extinguished, the fear of pall not yet triumphant, standby generators ensuring the flow of grace to all of God's creatures at the end of the mechanical age." ?
Sometimes I feel like a huge misfit writing fiction.
I have some language-level obsession that doesn't always translate very well into "shit happening," which, let's face it, is crucial to a story.
I think I always put more elbow grease into sentences and images, and particular cadences that please me.
All of which is my roundabout way of praising Don Barthelme for writing stories that hit the aforementioned balls out of the park.
Take heart, poets attempting to write fiction.
The stories in this book will show you some fantastic possibilities.By the way: collected works volumes are heartless, but they are economical.
It was agreed that since the meaning of balloon could never be known absolutely, extended discussion was pointless…” (47)Mystery and DarknessEven within this level of tolerance, there is still scope for lack of clarity, obliquity, misunderstanding, disagreement, mystery and darkness: “arrangements sometimes slip,...errors are made,...signs are misread...” There is therefore mystery and darkness in the space or gap or gulf between words, and also between people (cross-eyed, we talk at cross-purposes):“I'm communicating with you across a vast gulf of ignorance and darkness.” (1)“He had, in point of fact, created a gentle, genial misunderstanding.” (362)Notwithstanding the gulf, people convince themselves that “[they] have confidence in their ability to take the right steps and to obtain correct answers.” (27)A Wonderful Sea in Which We Can Swim, Leap or StumbleLike language, Barthelme writes of behaviour:“Behaviour in general is a wonderful sea, in which we can swim, or leap, or stumble.” (355)Even though Barthelme writes with the precision of realism, he’s fascinated by this gulf, and what happens when people detect it.
I refuse to review this until you read it or I re-read it.
Suffice to say, for now, that this guy knows what's the story.
There are, surprise, 60 stories here.
And I thought 3 maybe 4 were misses or fouls.
That leaves 56 maybe 57 homers.
Some of them barely left the yard but many of them were way, way gone.
Why am I continuing with this trite analogy?
Perhaps it's because I can't play with the jacks.
I am not well.At the sentence level, Barthelme's ear is phenomenal.
At the idea level, he's both accessibly philosophical and very funny.
داستانهاش بهشدت به سلیقه من نزدیکه.داستان هایی با اتفاقاتی عجیب و که خیلی طبیعی و معمولی بیان میشن، داستانهایی که توش هرچیزی رو ممکنه پیداکنی، داستانهایی با کلی ساختارشکنی و کارای جدید و جالب و خلاق، که نمیشه حتا به بعضیاش گفت داستان!بعضی از داستانهاش ممکنه زیاد دوستداشتنی نباشن و به این علت ۵ ستاره ندادم. ولی بعضی داستانهاش به شدت محشرن و هزارتا ستاره هم براشون کمه.ممکنه با خوندنش آدم ایده بگیره برای نوشتن. خلاق نوشتن.جالبیش اینه که داستانهایی که طنز قویای دارن، صرفن طنز نیستن و توش چیزهای مختل
داستان‌هاش به‌شدت به سلیقه من نزدیکه.داستان هایی با اتفاقاتی عجیب و که خیلی طبیعی و معمولی بیان می‌شن، داستان‌هایی که توش هرچیزی رو ممکنه پیداکنی، داستان‌هایی با کلی ساختارشکنی و کارای جدید و جالب و خلاق، که نمی‌شه حتا به بعضیاش گفت داستان!بعضی از داستان‌هاش ممکنه زیاد دوست‌داشتنی نباشن و به این علت ۵ ستاره ندادم.
خلاق نوشتن.جالبی‌ش اینه که داستان‌هایی که طنز قوی‌ای دارن، صرفن طنز نیستن و توش چیزهای مختلف رو نقد می‌کنه و نقدشم جوریه که خیلی راحت به چشم میاد و با خوندنش راحت می‌فهمی منظورش از این اتفاقات چیه و نظرشو درباره چی داره بیان می‌کنه.
Espectacular antología de Donald Barthelme. Historias muy experimentales, fragmentadas, simbólicas, reales, que resaltan las verdaderas relaciones humanas. Después de leer Sixty Stories ya no me quedan dudas de que Barthelme es uno de mis cuentistas favoritos.Relatos inolvidables: "A Shower of Gold", "Me and Miss Mandible", "Game", "The Balloon", "Robert Kennedy Saved from Drowning", "Report", "Views of My Father Weeping", "On Angels", "The Sandman", "Kierkegaard Unfair to Schlegel", "Daumier", "The Party", "A Manual for Sons", "I Bought a Little City", "Rebecca", "The School", "The Leap", "How I Write My Songs" y "Heroes".
I was half way through the book when I realized that these stories serve as a kind of Rorschach Test, always in movement, always mind-boggling, and forever inspiring.
As an earlier review mentioned, these short pieces have the tendency to rip your mind to shreds, without any hope for recovery throughout.
Many stories in this collection bear the mark of absolute classics, like "The Great Hug", "Me and Miss Mandible", "Views of My Father Weeping" and "Cortes and Montezuma", among a half dozen or so others.
Eccentric, horrifying, funny, and highly intelligent, this collection illustrates what an organized madman with an overgrown inner child can achieve with a typewriter.
Barthelme is the short story writer for me. I loved these mad, witty, clever but not clever-clever, surreal and speculative stories. Barthelme has a style and range utterly unique to him and uses a fragmented, avant-garde approach to tell his cryptic and weirdly moving stories.I can't pick a favourite from these. They were dazzling, one and all. Hooray for discovering new writers!
For a few weeks I dipped into 60 Stories with moderate enjoyment, but soon noticed it was my “go to” books in times of distraction, when something more demanding would have tested my fractured concentration.
To my mind, magazine stories, little pop-art bursts of colour to spice up the lifestyle supplement, things you read over coffee with a shrug and a chuckle and put aside.
Nothing wrong with that I suppose, and his influence is certainly widespread (in Australia in the 70s this style was “it” among “experimental” authors, which may account partly for my lack of enthusiasm), but I’d just as soon my heart get a workout as well as my mind.
I've been reading through these for the past couple weeks, picking out good ones like berries.About a third of these are too rambling or incoherent to understand, but the rest, as a general rule, are brilliant. My favorites are the Balloon, Robert Kennedy, the Captured Woman, On Angels, Cortes and Montezuma, and The Death of Edward Lear.
This collection of stories came highly recommended from a reliable source, but I'm sorry to say, I could only make it through about 10%. Maybe I'm overly traditional, but Barthelme's gimmicks (improper punctuation, garish non-sequiturs, smarty-pants diction) didn't impress me much. Too clever by half. That being said, I know a number of people who would really enjoy his work (i.e. I know a number of people who are better at having fun than me.) The stories are short. Give them a try if you like cotton candy and black coffee and picking off scabs.
Here's an odd coincidence: Carl, that's me, finishes reading The Beetle Leg by John Hawkes and then immediately picks up Sixty Stories by Donald Barthelme. The first story contains a character named Carl who talks about being a fan of The Beetle Leg by John Hawkes.
سه داستان در حد اعلا و پنج ستاره بود ، باقیش مزخرف.
Borges for depressed people.
For instance, I found the story of a grown man stuck in the third grade due to a bureaucratic mistake in Me and Miss Mandible a little uncomfortable, but by the end of the book the story about human longing illustrated by a witch giving birth to a sentient seven thousand and thirty five carat emerald after being impregnated by the man in the moon didn’t faze me at all.Barthelme is an unmistakable stylist.
The idea of a long hard slog through a big square thing isn’t particularly daunting, but I found that too often with sixty stories I would be left shaking my head at the end of lunch and not looking to get back into the book.
For the past couple of years, I have kept word documents that keep track of the individual short stories or long essays I read.
I say to myself I do this so I can keep track of what I read and recognize writers who've I encountered before.
Reading short stories isn't always my cup of tea.
This final category of stories fell into two camps: a) ones where I recognized what Barthelme was trying to do but felt that he didn't really connect; or b) stories that I felt like I needed to read a 20 page dissertation on to ultimately understand.
Donald Barthelme, Sixty StoriesPenguin, 1982introduction by David Gates (2003)When I was 20 I tried to read Nabokov, and couldn’t, and knew it was my problem, not his.
When I was 25 I could read Nabokov.
I couldn’t read Barthelme until I was 40.
(There are real benefits, it turns out, to not dying young.) Maybe it helped that I had read Beckett, Lispector, Lydia Davis in the meantime.
Read this one first.
I’ve heard a few people say that Forty Stories is easier.
Some stories will grab you instantly, others will seem incomprehensible or opaque.
Read the stories out of sequence.
Η εισαγωγή, όμως, γρήγορα με έβγαλε από την πλάνη μου: τα ιερά τοτέμ έχουν κόστος, δεν είναι για τους φτωχούς σε επιδιώξεις.
Τα The Ballon και The President, με την φωνή που περικλείει τις αμφιβολίες μιας πόλης, μιας χώρας, μου θύμισε πάρα πολύ Μιλχάουζερ.Η τεχνική του Μπάρθελμ  σε μερικές ιστορίες είναι μια καταχώρηση αδρά ή συνδεδεμένων μεταξύ τους αφηγημάτων, που όμως με τον τρόπο τους δίνουν ένα αποσπασματικό χρονογράφημα των περιστάσεων.
Όσο όμως προχωράει το βιβλίο είναι σαφές πως ο Μπάρθελμ  δεν κάνει απολύτως τίποτα για να ανταμείψει τον αναγνώστη του.
Barthelme's fictions are formally experimental, employing unconventional methods of storytelling and frequently depicting unreal situations.
Narrators in a few of them are unreliable; in others, narration is completely absent, the "stories" consisting entirely of unattributed dialogue.Along with stories selected from earlier Barthelme collections such as Unspeakable Practices, Unnatural Acts and Sadness, this volume includes several stories uncollected anywhere else.
Highlights include a story about a balloon settling down on New York City, another telling of an ascent up a glass mountain, a "Manual for Sons" describing different types of fathers, and a retelling of Balzac's Eugénie Grandet.
With the exception of a couple of stories, particularly "Game," I found this collection of stories to be affected, precious, and irritatingly obscure (like the New Yorker magazine in which they so often appeared).
If so, what a strange way to burn heartbeats before you die.
Maybe the way to approach his work is to think of it as a messy collection of experimental attempts.
Just like evolutionary mutations, most of these attempts are abortive.
It's a shame he wasted most of his talent, which is undeniable, attempting to always do new things.
This selection remains the essential one for the situational brilliance, streetwise high-mindedness, worldly moaning and groaning, revivified commonplaces, and startling perfection of phrase that -- taken all in all -- defined a late-20th-Century master. No one with an ear for the language will want to skip the discoveries Donald Barthelme made in American Eglish. No one seeking to get their minds around the ever-more-citified complications of our existence, and to find what may yet amount to the human sob and chortle in those complications, can afford to skip this compendium.
дивна колекція авторського вибраного. дуже різні за якістю тексти. деякі ледь не банальні жарти, а декотрі надскладні формальні експерименти, є навіть шматок з роману "Мертвий Батько" ("Настанови синам"). Бартелмі, певно, найкращий американський майстер малих епічних форм, найвинахідливіший, але це геть не зрозуміло з цього видання, бо тут неоковирні примітки - недоречні й мінімальні, хоча переклади ніби непогані. Найцікавіші тексти - Золотий дощ, Повітряна куля, Аліса, Роберт Кеннеді, Доповідь, Бачиш Місяць?, Повстання індіанців, К'єркеґор, Скляна гора, Ежені Ґранде, Наприкінці механічної ери, Придбав я містечко, Школа, Кортес, Смерть Едварда Ліра, Смарагд. Тобто 16 із 60 - нормуль :)
Pode o absurdo ser melancólico? E divertido? E comovente? Pode ser esta uma das melhores colectâneas que já li?
one of the traits i most disdain in writers is a tendency towards the esoteric, ignoring the critical elements of a good story.
Barthelme is both of these writers.
in the less interesting, there seems to be nothing to glean from the stories, except, in some, for that one rare nugget that makes you glad you spent the time.
Play the guitar.'" others contain none of these flashes, and these are tough to finish.consistency is not a hallmark of this work, instead, intermittent genius and an ability to selectively reveal slices of humanity (often slightly masked) is the defining characteristic.
A City of Churches read only
This guy is a genius and it is a tragedy that he is not better known or more commonly read.
He is a great original and one of the best examplars of the good qualities of postmodernism.
His writing is so fresh, so full of brio, wit and zip.
The intricacy, intelligence and originality recalls Borges.
You can see the impact of his influence upon the writing of Dave Eggers, George Saunders and Nicholson Baker, but he deserves to be more celebrated.
I actually prefered 40 stories to 60 stories but they both demand reading.
I enjoyed the audio book immensely and I am now looking forward to buying a print copy of the book so I can spend some more time with the text.
The writing is so clean.
There aren't a lot of extra words that don't have to be there even at the same time I'm not always sure I understand what's going on.
This is the kind of writing I would like to find a way to emulate in plays on the stage.
I'm not sure it's possible except that Beckett did it before these short stories were written and the influence is apparent.
سه داستان اين كتاب فقط از ديالوگ بين دو نفر تشكيل شده.
دو داستان نقيضه هايي از كتاب اوژني گرانده و بتمن است.
يك داستان بيست صحنه ظاهراً بي ربط از زندگي برادرِ جان اف كندي است.
سه داستانِ اولين كار بدِ بچه، دوستمان كلبي و جهش هركدام به تنهايي پنج ستاره مي گيرند و از طرفي داستان هايي در كتاب وجود دارند كه لايق يك ستاره اند.
بارتلمي به بيان مشكلاتي مي پردازد كه پيامد دنياي عاري از معيار هاي عقلاني است كه نتيجه اين وضعيت سردرگمي و وحشت و انزجار شخصيت هاي داستان است.
Yes, Rebecca is a lizard, though she's also a person.
And so, near the end of the story--most of these sixty stories are only a few pages long--Hilda places her hands on Rebecca's head, signaling an end to their argument:"The snow is coming," [Hilda] said.
"Soon it will be snow time.
Together then as in other snow times.
Come, viridian friend, come and sup with me."An earnest, almost stately declaration to appear in such a postmodern tale, but here and in hundreds of other places in this book, Barthelme shows that heart can coexist with clever formal hijinks.
"Viridian friend." Wonder of wonders.
A mixed bag, but an extremely interesting one. These stories have iconoclastic and seemingly improvisational qualities that I found irresistible; Barthelme's anarchic imagination and unpredictability are major reasons for recommending him to readers with offbeat sensibilities. Funny, unexpectedly poignant, and downright weird.
The thing with this is that there are maybe 15 bonafide five star stories and it actually adds up to more than the sum of its parts because of that, but there were large chunks of it that were a total slog. call it a 3.45
That would be Donald Barthelme.I want to say that Barthelme’s relation to those other guys is quite shallow, and he does feel entirely unique, but in places it hews very closely to what will become Brief Interviews with Hideous Men. He also deals with themes of alienation and changing cultural epochs like some of those other guys do, but it always feels secondary to what he’s truly after: some silly literary alchemy based on clever use of language, humor, and an understanding of how dialogue ought to work.
First FORTY STORIES and now SIXTY STORIES, if I was good at math I could tell you what Donald Barthelme would publish next.
The tales are full of one-liners and crazy setups, sort of like a literary version of those What If comics I read as a kid.
The jokes are good enough for me, but after awhile even those get a bit hard to take, like all setup and no punchline.
For most of the time I was reading these stories I had a stomach flu, so either I was throwing up or feeling shaky with the chills.
Amazing book, only marked down because there are some clunkers committed in the name of daring exploration.
Earlier classics like The Balloon and Indian Uprising are thoughtful meditations on language, story and creativity that are also well worth reading.Having now read authors like David Foster Wallace and Ben Marcus since last reading this book, it has become clear to me how much their formal experimentalism benefited from Barthelme's early explorations.
I found myself hearing strong echoes of these contemporary authors in some of Barthelme's stories from the 60s and 70s.
The stories are like songs where the lyrics make no sense per say but you love them anyways - a la ones from the band Neutral Milk Hotel.As to rating, it therefore becomes hard and intensely personal.
Some of the stories resonated wonderfully and left intense feelings.
Perhaps letting it settle will maybe make me love it more, but there are so many stories that are so vague it might also stay a muddle that doesn't stick with me at all.Interesting in its uniqueness.
The stories are usually only a couple of pages, so I'd recommend reading one or two before deciding whether to commit to it.
If some things had gone differently in my life, I would have read this book more than a bit of time ago, but as with other things, no point in dwelling on paths not taken earlier.
I always had this image in my mind of Barthelme as an academic writer, with the accompanying stodgy connotations, and that's not an untrue description but it misrepresents someone whose stories are such great fun to read.
I've rarely laughed out loud so many times, or stopped reading to look around if any nearby on the subway or in the park would like to hear a perfect little turn of phrase.
Sure, there are a few that were outstanding (Margins; Me and Miss Mandible; Game; Critique de la Vie Quotidienne; The Sandman, The Rise of Capitalism; A City of Churches; The Captured Woman; The School) but for each one I liked, there were at least 2 that were a complete waste of my time.
A lot of the junk in this book is completely nonsensical and schtick-y.
I have no further use for this book.
If I had a fireplace, however, I could certainly find one more use for this book.
My first introduction to "literary" short fiction came in high school when I read Donald Barthelme's "The School," which can be found in this collection.
Years (and a high school diploma and a college degree) later, I've discovered all new ways to adore the stories in this collection.
Barthelme is one of those precious writers who gives insanity the feeling of sense and brilliance the feeling of deceptive simplicity.
Read some of these stories, then re-read them, then re-read them again - given enough time between readings I guarantee you'll see something new each time.
It's hard to rate this book, because this has some of best stories I've ever read, but you have to slog through a lot of pretentious B.S. stories.
Took me forever to get trough all 60.
I highly recommend reading the Greatest Hits of Donald Barthelme, such as 'I Built A Little City' and 'Indian Uprising' or 'Game' and many other amazing stories, 'The School', 'The Balloon', 'Robert Kennedy Saved From Drowning'....
Donny seemed to have the strategy of writing as many stories as he can, as weirdly as he can, and then seeing what works.
It works about 50 percent of the time....
Just like the Forty Stories, it took my breath...!
In a good wayParaguay-> fun imagining of a city/country from perspective of a pothead, perhapsThe Sandman -> I liked this critique/satire of psychoanalysis...
it's all so absurd, the education system, and as we grow older and graduate and get on with life we realize how absurd it all was...But the only story that moved me a little was "A Manual for Sons", which I'd say is the best of the collection.
I guess this is like the literary equivalent to Rauschenberg's paintings.
Maybe I just like my literature a little more straightforward and less zany.
Who are these people, what are these worlds, why are these strange things happening in this book?
Who can make sense of these stories?My brain has been put in a blender named Barthelme and ripped to shreds.
I can't form the right words to describe his writing, which is some strange combination of poetry, dialogue, lists, absurdity, black humor, and magic.
It made no sense.
It still doesn't make sense, but after a while I just went with it.
This book is an inspiration to me, and should be read by anyone who wants to learn how to read all over again.
We have Presbyterian, Unitarian, Pentecostal, protestant… you name it, and they have it.People put religion not just at the center of their communal life, but it seems to me that religion is in any and every part of their existence.That may be fine- a while ago, I would scorn such an attitude, but I have been reading positive psychology, which revealed to me that we need spirituality and those are religious tend to be happier than the rest of us.The young woman is supposed to work in a would-be car rental office and needs to rent a place.
