https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/130200.Gather_Together_in_My_Name
This is the second volume of Maya Angelou’s autobiography and covers four years from 1944 to 1948, ending when Angelou was 21.
Angelou is remarkably open and honest; clear about her mistakes, as she said herself:“I wrote about my experiences because I thought too many people tell young folks, “I never did anything wrong.
A man she was working with at the time had given her a glimpse of the world he inhabited:“The life of the underworld was truly a rat race, and most of its inhabitants scurried like rodents in the sewers and gutters of the world.
This is the darkest in Maya Angelou's anthology and one I hadn't read before so I was shocked when she came to the brink of prostitution and actually jumped.
Although when you think of the Maya Angelou we all know now, it's hard to picture her being duped by the sleazeball characters, it only makes me admire what this woman has built of her life.
Luckily for us she doesn't write it that way.This is the school of hard knocks and Ms. Angelou describes it all.
I know all her work and could refer back and forth so perhaps it just felt that way to me because I have the whole picture.
My goodness, I adore this phenomenal woman!
These autobiographies by Maya Angelou are the best definition of a page-turner in my book.
Gather Together in My Name is volume no.
Maya Angelou's prose game is ah-mazing and I believe it's the poet in her that forces such a beautiful choice of words.
She's real, blunt, unapologetic, and that's why I adore her.__________
Maya Angelou's Autobiographies:
1) I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings.2) Gather Together in My Name.3) Singin' and Swingin' and Gettin' Merry Like Christmas.4) The Heart of a Woman.5) All God's Children Need Traveling Shoes.6) A Song Flung Up to Heaven.
The second volume of Angelou's autobiography is as resourceful and remarkable as Angelou herself. She almost joined the army. She ran a brothel, she worked in a brothel. She cooked (to earn). She took up learning to dance professionally. She almost lost her child. At certain points, I thought she was going to run away and make amends for all that I thought was not worthy enough to hold on to, but, by Jove, what was I thinking? Her unflinching directness subdued everything.

I love this woman with all my heart. Her writing style, her way of crafting a story, her life.. This volume was a bit sadder than the previous ones, but what a great read.
I enjoyed this more than Angelou's first memoir, which won't be a surprise to anyone who knows my tastes, because in this book she's a teenager/young adult while in the first she was a child.
So I enjoyed the content more and therefore appreciated the writing more.
It's a short, quick read and kept me engaged, though, as in the first book, events sometimes seem disconnected from each other, and Angelou's tone can be so wry and detached that it's hard to tell how the events of her life affected her; when she does write about her feelings, there's often a sense of amusement behind it.
I read I know why the caged bird sings a long while ago, and Maya Angelou told her remarkable life story.
She finds work as a cook, falls in love and it doesn't work out, and heads for LA before a diversion to San Diego and Oklahoma.
She takes short term jobs cooking and waitressing to help her raise her son.
She also falls in love left, right, and centre but all are bad news.The story is again remarkable and very well written.
If anything shocked me it was her leaving her son with virtual strangers for long periods of time whilst she worked.
As with I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings, I couldn't put this one down once I started reading.
This autobiography picks up where I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings ends, with with 17-year-old Maya out of work and caring for her son Guy in San Francisco.
And I admire her deep loyalty to her family, for whom she was willing to drop everything and help no matter what her circumstances.I learned a lot about post-World War II race relations.
I'm very curious to know how she ended up becoming a writer and poet.
In fact, at times her prose in this book read like poetry.
Gather together in my name - the religious overtones guide the reader into a false sense of security before the late, great Dr. Angelou drops an anvil on your head.
This brief little glimpse into the life of a very young woman between the ages of seventeen and twenty - this twinkle of an eye- to keep up with the religious tone - is hell on earth for this young woman.
And she'd put up with just about anything, till someone regarded her as a dummy.
Like her others, Gather is an incredible book.
One that regards her own past not with bitterness, but with grace.
3 years of this young woman's life.
Wow...so I guess fiction really can't touch real life.Picking up where I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings left off, this heart-wrenching memoir chronicles Maya Angelou's late teen years as an unwed mother, pimp, and prostitute desperately searching for love.
I sometimes had a hard time picturing this sophisticated/assured and generous woman as the selfish and feckless girl who struggled with making good choices when put in these seedy and precarious situations...but maybe that's the point.Still it's good and I enjoyed it, and I can see why people are so pleased that she's finally getting recognized for her literary contributions.Would recommend to those who enjoy a good memoir and elegant writing, and can stomach the raunchy realities of her young life.
Probably best when read in order and in combination with her other memoirs.
This volume charts Maya's life as a mother in her late teens, brutal in its honesty and miraculous in its lack of vitriolic self-judgement.
Maya takes us on the next stage of her journey with her ongoing attempts (in vain) to find a dignified job worthy of her intelligence and unusual education, the shared, desperate fight to make ends meet, putting one foot in front of the other while seeking a sense of self, learning how to value herself and spot those that pretend to respect but only use.
Wow. I've somehow read these Angelou memoirs out of order (I don't think I realized for a long time that she even had more than the first one, I Know Why The Caged Bird Sings.) I wasn't prepared for how dark this one would be after reading some of the later ones.
Angelou lived a hundred different lives, it seems.
This memoir chronicles her late teenage years as she lives in San Francisco with her mother and tries to fashion a life for herself and her son.
In doing so she gets into some crazy situations and ends up endangering (and almost losing) her son.
I absolutely love Maya Angelou. Even when she is talking about all the wrong she has done, she shines brighter in my eyes. Because she pushed through those bad times, she fought to do better, be better, and of course, we all know she achieved the better. Everyone should read Maya Angelou, her poetic words of wisdom know how to pierce into your heart and stay with you forever.

Maya's life has so many twists and turns that it reads as if it were a piece of fiction. Stories of pimps, whorehouses, and the underworld. While she has lived through all these dangers, we can now have a glimpse of them all within the safety of a book. To have lived through so many life shocks as a young mother undoubtedly demanded incredible courage. Maya is, as Obama said, a truly phenomenal woman.
She is a precocious teenager who believes is tough enough to stand on her own two feet and she does often manage to get what she wants, at least in the short term, but it never lasts.The title refers to all the mistakes that Angelou made in this period of her life and she certainly made some.
She is naive and wants to believe in the best of others but this trust and desire to please often leads her down some very dark alleys, yet she never shies away from admitting to her mistakes.Angelou’s life is undoubtedly extraordinary but never fantastical.
I walked the sunny California streets shrouded in Russian mists.” Until I stumbled across The Collected Autobiographies I had no idea Maya Angelou had continued her story beyond I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings.
As in Caged Bird, Maya Angelou narrates the character of her former self with honesty, dramatic irony, sometimes humor.
And of course, like Caged Bird, her life story is an education in the history of 20th century race relations and other sorts of prejudice - including Maya’s thoughtful consideration of her own.
This novel continues Maya Angelou's autobiography (where I Know Why The Caged Bird Sings left off) from ages 17 through about 19 - in a post WWII world.
There is much I can say to recap but many others have probably covered this ground already.I will add that while I don't consider myself a prude, I was shocked to learn (possible spoiler ahead...) that Maya worked for a month in a whorehouse as a "lady of the night".
Also, prior to all this she helped operate a whorehouse.
I love Maya Angelou.
"The loss of young first love is so painful that it borders on the ludicrous.""I had written a juicy melodrama in which I was to be the star.
It just so happened that life took my script away and upstaged me.""There was nothing about me to bind anyone to me in sympathy.
I decided I'd try to sort out my life.""Gather Together in My Name" takes the reader through the young adulthood of My, sometimes Rita.
She is young, courageous, stupid, strong....everything, and she never backs down from it and never tries to soften it.
After re-reading "I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings," I felt compelled to read her other memoirs.
And this book ends when she is only about 20 years old.
Once again, her amazing voice and insights make for rich reading.
I just discovered that all of her autobiographies are in one collected book.
So I am going to get that and read the other straight through.
A friend who is leaving the country for the holiday will buy it for me and bring it back to China.
:) It will be cheaper than buying each individual book--and I will love having them all in one volume.
Some of the most beautiful prose I've ever read, used in an unflinching autobiography. As opposed to I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings, when Angelou was a child and therefore not really in control of her own life, in this volume we see her take her first steps into adulthood and make some very unwise decisions. She can be naive, vindictive, flighty and neglectful towards her son, but she's still always intelligent, strong-willed and fascinating. Truly a masterpiece.5 stars.
This book is well written. Maya is an exceptional writer. As a teen, she was very brave and determined to succeed against all odds.I like the fact that she wasn't prone to pity parties and grabbed life with both hands.I love that she was her own greatest supporter.Most of all, I love that her determination to be great at whatever she was doing was rock solid.I am definitely reading more of her.
This book is so sad, yet so beautiful, really made me and makes me question the world and environment that many women face (that we as men create/support some of us) and how many of those stories are never heard, ignored, pushed aside. The beauty of it, is the fact that Maya in the end as we know has triumphed out of this adversity. I feel like this book in a way has opened my eyes and I need to read more books written by women.
Angelou becomes a pimp. Later she becomes a prostitute. It is only through an eye-opening experience given to her by a generous man that she avoids hard drugs. One of the best book titles of all time, I am convinced.
I enjoyed Ms. Angelou's story of being a young woman raising her son Guy alone. Good book!
Maya Angelou continues the story of her life after 'I know why caged birds sing', describing parts of her very young years - being involved in all sorts of shenanigans or 'too real' events of the unknown face of society - drug addicts, prostitution, gambling, and so on. I love Maya's literary voice so much - she's so authentic and real and funny at the same time, describing perfectly how a young confused woman would think and act at that age of 19, who also happens to have a baby.Can't wait to read the other books as well!
Maya writes beautifully well, the story really touched me and actually allowed me to be grateful for the kind of life I have..... I can say I am innocent to the happenings of the world. Maya understands the struggle of life and would do anything to make her son comfortable, I am really proud of her. She didn't allow her failures wear her down, but she always got back up and did better. Looking forward to reading more of her books.
Another fascinating yet heart-wrenching journey through Maya's life.
Following events through her eyes and perspective is a wild and necessary ride.
Some parts of this book are difficult to handle, since it focuses on a period of her youth in which she was exposed to truly nasty things and taken advantage of by many different people.
At times, I found myself in that classic shocked reader pose, with my hand covering my mouth, wondering how could people do this to her and praying everything will turn out alright.
It's a really gripping book.
Remarkably honest content. I’ve enjoyed reading Maya’s autobiographies and I appreciate and respect that she does not fabricate her past. She definitely lived an adventurous life. Her books will live on my bookshelf to read over and over again.
