https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3047851-wanted
¡Vaya final que le ha dado Sara Shepard a este arco!Ha sido la novela de la saga que más me ha sorprendido en cuanto a la trama sobre A, Alison y las chicas.
Está llena de misterio, giros en la trama y sobre todo, esa esencia de los primeros libros: inocencia y putadas de instituto.
Ha sido una mezcla extraña, pero una mezcla perfecta.Todo el tema Alison-Courtney me ha dejado de piedra.
No se me ha hecho una novela pesada en ningún momento, y sin duda, creo que es ya mi favorita de todas las que he leído.
Wanted by Sara ShepardBook 8 in the Pretty Little Liars series This  is the PLL book I've been waiting for, this is the five star instalment I went through 8 books to get to, and boy, was it worth the wait!Funny story, so, after reading Ugly Love, I decided to pick this one up and read a couple pages...
Spencer briefly questions the idea that the body in the garden was actually Courtney since it was wearing Alison’s ring (a matter not brought up in the last book when we were supposed to believe that the body was Leah the random Amish girl who everybody has forgotten about ) but 3 paragraphs later is welcoming Alison home.
Soon Spencer’s stupid ideas about Melissa have spread to all the other girls except Aria, and even though all of their other unfounded allegations throughout the series turned out to ridiculous and were immediately disproved they jump straight onto the “Melissa killed Alison/Courtney/whoever” bandwagon, mainly on the basis of surmises and incidents that prove nothing, are barely connected to the murder and make little sense.
I really enjoyed the entire series.
I know they're geared more towards teenagers, but these are so well written and thought out that I can't help, but be a little hooked as an adult reading these.I don't think the gist of the entire plot was obvious to every single reader, but I had mostly everything solved reading the first book.
I solve the entire case in 15 minutes.
It both fascinates her and weirds her out.), and yet this book is BRILLIANT.
I am REALLY looking forward to her next series.
Got a secretCan you keep it?Swear this one you'll saveBetter lock it, in your pocketTaking this one to the graveIf I show you then I know youWon't tell what I saidCause two can keep a secretIf one of the m is dead… so this is it?? this is finally over?the whole PLL series made my world turn upside down , after i finished reading each book in the series i always come up with my own theories on who is A and who murdered Alison but sadly none of my theories is correct. not even one of them is corr
this is finally over?the whole PLL series made my world turn upside down , after i finished reading each book in the series i always come up with my own theories on who is A and who murdered Alison but sadly none of my theories is correct.
to those who are so itching to know who murdered alison and who is A you can read the ishpoilers below: (view spoiler)[ Alison dilaurentis actually has a twin sister, her twin sister Courtney has a mental illness and the dilaurentises decided to confine her in a psychiatric ward cause she is getting worse,she keeps on having violent behavior and keep on saying that she is alison but unfortunately Ali's mom mistakenly thought that Alison is courtney since she is wearing her pinky ring with the initial "c" even though Alison hardly insist that she is not COurtney her mom doesn't believe her.
That probably makes no sense if you haven't read this, but if you have you are saying "EXACTLY!!!!".Now that I'm done with the series I have a couple of nagging comments.First, how about the fact that so many of the story lines were just dropped when it became irrelevant to "A" or "Ali's" murder.
I understand that everyone needed to be connected to odd behavior and deep secrets in order to make the suspense last to the ending point, but other irrelevant plot lines were easily cleared up.
When this book started I was like, what are they going to do now that they know who killed Ali?
I loved Courtney/Ali's character, she was secretive, manipulative and beautiful.
But, at the end, when we realize the P.L.L's knew Courtney all along, not Ali, I was like whoa...okay, which sister is crazy?
However, the things she did to them, the blackmail, the ditching, that does make her sound crazy and mean now that I think about it, maybe she was crazy...but, hell, so was Ali, she killed her own sister!
Wow! That was a near perfect ending. But why has Sara Shepard written another 4 books? :\So..... is 'A' truly 'A'?Regardless, as long as Shepard writes them, i'll happily continue reading them. My favorite Pretty Little Liar has to go to Spencer! (even though I love them all) :)
So, before I start my review I would just like to tell the people who have not read it yet, that is is an amazing book, it ends perfectly and is a great finish to the Pretty Little Liars series.
On to my review,This book started off great right from the beginning.
Through the last few books in the series I thought that the killer was, Melissa, Spencer's sister.
But when Alison's mom, Mrs. DiLaurentis called all the girls- Aria, Hanna, Emily, and Spencer- to the press conference she is having the girls have no clue why they are going to be there.
Well, it’s no lie that this book got me into my current slump but I finally finished it! Not saying it wasn’t entertaining.. this series does a good job of that I just get too distracted reading it. I honestly just want to finish this series already 😴
HAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHHAHAHAHAHAHHAHAHAThese girls are so dumb.First, let's just mention the first line in the author acknowledgements:It is with a heavy heart that I write the acknowledgements for the last book in the Pretty Little Liars series.Yeah, I call bull shit as there still 8 more.
But weird things keep happening and stories aren't adding up and it all comes to head in a giant blaze at a cabin.First off, I think it's funny how quick these girls were to believe that this Courtney was Ali. I mean, it turned out it was but you would think after all they have been through with the lies and everything that they would have doubted it for a minute - only Aria questioned it.
Hi, I'm Hanna, and after Ali was murdered back in sixth grade, I became besties with Mona.
I'm going to need therapy, like, forever.Aria: I'm not sure why I'm even here.
I'm like, "I call godmother!"Emily: So I was in love with "Ali," who was really Courtney, for years.
ALL OF TEARS.Spencer: Are those "my two half-sisters are dead" tears, or "my parents' marriage is destroyed" tears, or "my insane half-sister jumped me in a parking lot and stuffed me in a trunk and then left me tied up in a closet with the weeks-old decaying body of my former boyfriend and then set the house on fire" tears?Melissa: BAAAAAWWWWSpencer: Yeah, I'm going to hand this one to Melissa.Aria: Sounds good.Hanna: You guys!
The second to last novel in the Pretty Little Liars series--Wanted--by Sara Shepard, tells the story of the twisted fate of four girls from a small Pennsylvania town called Rosewood.
Aria, Spencer, Emily, and Hanna lost their best friend Ali during a strange, mysterious night four years ago.
Aria, Spencer, Hanna, and Emily finally get to put that fateful night to rest, but not without finding out that much of what they thought was true really wasn’t.
Wanted deals with real teenage girl issues while addressing a problem that isn’t very common.
Wanted (Pretty Little Liars #8), Sara Shepardعنوان: تحت تعقیب؛ نویسنده: سارا شپرد؛ مترجم: شادی رستمی انجوانی؛ تهران، به پوشش، 1394؛ شابک: 9786009554539؛ در 293 ص؛
Ali's twin, Courtney, spent most of her life in various psych wards, only they're the nice, rich varieties.
Because C is crazy, although we're not really given a real diagnosis here, she acts out.Towards the start of the book, Ali's family reveals Courtney to the world via a press conferance.
Emily is given hope that Ali really does want to be with her romantically.
No real reason given."The best part of the book is the moment you realize that their Ali was never really Ali at all.
I'm still team Hannah she is my favorite Pretty Little Liar, but this entire book felt like a really juicy Lifetime movie.
The plot is riveting enough to cover that up though, this book brings an entirely new freaky brand of crazy, I loved it, and I'm finally just happy to know who A is, I zoomed through this one fairly quick, but it was worth it.
I loved the books, and the show is fantastic, I'm hopelessly addicted, and in the end all the drama, and confusion is worth the power of knowing.
and so on the day of spencers sleepover in the barn the Pll's Ali was inside while Naomi and Rileys ALi was outside.
the Naomi and rileys ali killed the Plls ali.
then ali wanted her life back but ended up with another 4 years as courtney.
ever since she brought spencer to their grandparents lake house and ripped the heads off barbies haha but then of course one every one started seeing melissa everywhere i knew sara would never make it so easy to guess who it was.
and some one once said "always leave them wanting more."
At A GlanceGenre: Young Adult; MysteryLove Triangle/Insta Love?: Love TrianglesCliff Hanger: YESRating: 4.5 stars.Score SheetAll out of tenCover: 8Plot: 8Characters: 8World Building: 8Flow: 10Series Congruity: 10Writing: 8Ending: 8Total: 8.5In DepthBest Part: So much action!
Worst Part: Unbelievable Plot Twist.
Overall Feels Felt: Seriously??; WTF; Whooo!ConclusionContinuing the Series: yesRecommending: yes!Misc.: Buddy read with Sharon Mariampillai Found HERE!Short Review: I loved this book, it was a perfect way to end most of the story lines Sara had going on.
I am beyond anxious to see where this series is gonna go now thou.
Review In GIF Form
All of these secrets belong to four Pretty Little Liars.
Aria, Spencer, Hanna, and Emily are back for another freightning adventure in Sara Shepard's 8th installment; Wanted.
In "Wanted", all of your irritable questions like, are Jenna and Ian dead, will in fact be answered.
What did Aria mean when the spirit said "Ali killed Ali?" Whats up with Spencers sister?
Last but not least Ali. Who killed her and are the Pretty Little Liars right about what they found in the last book?
I'll give you a hint Pretty Little Readers, the killer is right under your nose, and their not leaving until hell breaks loose one last time.
The book, Wanted, from the Pretty Little Liars series written by Sara Shepard, is fantabulous.
I believe Sara Shepard had good diction as well.
Some of the words that displayed good diction are "clandestine", "sleep-crusted eyes", etc.
I especially like when she used "sleep-crusted eyes".
It's a good, short description of how someone's eyes look when they first get out of bed.
I also love Sara's techniques and her writing style.
I think she has a style when she writes these.
Her style, to me, is kind of a mix of mysterious and fun.
Sara's style makes her book amazing and entertaining to read!(:
I read the others books in the series and absolutely adored all of them.
Some of the best books I've ever read.
*little tiny spoiler* The ending, kinda left me hanging with what it said on the last page but i was still very pleased with the ending.READ THIS PRETTY LITTLE LIAR FANS":Sara Shepard is coming out with four new books in the PLLs series.
But there is for sure going to be a new installment to the series.
"Twisted" will be the 9th book coming out July 5th 2011.
Check it out babes!Pretty Little Liars Rocks!
Keep it coming Sara Shepard (:
Last book in the series.
The acknowledgements thank everyone for sticking with these god awful books for 8 long "novels" now.
I see there's a PLL book 9.
And, oh, look, book 12 is coming out this year.You know, Sara Shepard.
It's great that you make gobs and gobs of money from writing these god awful plots.
It's fabulous that little Twilight fans who don't know what a good novel is eat it up like it's fucking Shakespeare.
But for fuck's sake, when you say you're going to end a series, how about you actually do it.
Let it fucking die, you moron.
So horrible that I am actually angry I read past the fourth book, which I believe was the original end of this series.
I can't imagine this shit continuing for another four books, it has gotten so contrived.
Yeah, so ranting about the eighth book in the Pretty Little Liars series is sort of like buying one of those 99 cent frozen pizzas and going "WHY DOES THIS TASTE LIKE NOTHING I DEMAND TO KNOW", but it managed to be sort of witty and relatively thrilling into even the sixth book!
(view spoiler)[Secret killer twins!
(hide spoiler)] That's so freaking bad!
This was supposed to be the last book in this series (and then it got 8 more).
I liked the ending and I would have been fine with it if this had been it.
However, I'm excited to read the next arc at some point.
Hopefully the new A will be a bit more scary before he/she reveals him/herself.
I also got spoiled on a big twist that was revealed in this arc, that might have been the reason why I thought who A was, was pretty obvious...
You'd think that w/everything these girls have experienced this far in 8 instalments that they'd learn something, anything, & show a bit of growth. There's only 1 character that's had any semblance of growth & maturity. It makes me sad. The story itself feels like it's being stretched way past it's prime just for shock value. I can't begin to fathom the fact that there are 8 books left!! How ever shall I survive? 2.75 airheads outta 5!
While the girls were now friend with the twin, whose name is Courtney, everything they did was like playing with Ali. But one day, Courtney said that she was Ali and her sister Courtney was dead instead of her being dead, but her parents didn't believe when Ali siad she was Ali because Courtney always said she was Ali. And since her parents thought she was Ali, they sent her to a mental hospital, that's why she couldn't see them or call them because they took away her phone.
The four girls got surprised and suddenly smoke was coming from the door and it smelled like something burning.
Que libro tan más perfecto, enserio, genial de principio a fin, me encantó y totalmente inesperado para mi lo que pasó en este libro Al final, no me esperaba nada de eso.
No se que pase en los otros libros pero definitivamente los leeré, tengo mi ha curiosidad por saber que pasó después se e se final algo abierto, pero a la vez miedo de que me decepcione por completo los siguientes libros, pero confiere y espero que Sara siga haciendo un buen trabajo con estos libros y no me decepcione.
a book that told me not all friends are good not all friends are bad.
not a friend that changes your personality and makes you do bad stuff.The book is about 4 Best Friends that were not popular and a girl called Alison make them do bad stuff but turned them into popular girls everyone wanted to be.The 4 girls think they have a clear image of what happened the night their BF disappeared not living anything behind in a place called Rosewood.well i learned that i should not follow a person that wants to change my personality and make me do bad stuff.
Como dije antes, Sara Shepard me volvió a volar la cabeza con este libro.Yo ya sabía el final de este libro incluso antes de empezar el primero, porque me los había spoileado, pero el tema es que yo sabía este final, y aún me quedan 8 libros. NO TENGO UNA FUCKING IDEA DE QUE PUEE LLEGAR A PASAR, TENGO MIEDO. Gracias Oceano por el ejemplar!!
Holy Crap!!!! Did not see that coming! For all you Pretty Little Liars fans out there this is a perfect conclusion to a series that has kept you on the edge of your seat since the first book. Kudos to Sarah Shepard on this one!!!!
