https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36636727-fruit-of-the-drunken-tree
What makes us different is our reaction to those feelings and the situations that brought about them.Ingrid Rojas Contreras's debut novel, "Fruit of the Drunken Tree," takes us to the South American country of Colombia during the extremely violent and turbulent 1990's when drug-lord, Pablo Escobar, instilled fear among the natives as well as the world.Drug kingpin Escobar was not the only threat Colombian residents had to live with.
She finds herself the breadwinner for the family.Petrona lives in a world of fear, death, poverty, rape, hunger and sadness.Contreras uses real events in this fictional tale.
4 stars to Fruit of the Drunken Tree! ⭐ ⭐ ⭐ ⭐ When I saw Fruit of the Drunken Tree compared to Isabel Allende and Gabriel Garcia Marquez, I knew it was a must-read for my list. Ingrid Rojas Contreras’ debut is set in Colombia in the 1990s. It is focused on the Santiago family living in Bogota in a gated community. Gates are necessary because of the extreme political unrest in the country at the time. While the children are insulated from the world, just outside those protective bars are kidnappi
⭐️ ⭐️ ⭐️ ⭐️ When I saw Fruit of the Drunken Tree compared to Isabel Allende and Gabriel Garcia Marquez, I knew it was a must-read for my list.
The author was inspired by her own life in her writing of Fruit of the Drunken Tree.
Rojas Contreras uses the voices of Chula and Petrona as her narrators to capture the essence of the disparities between their lives and their means to survive.
Chula and Petrona will be forced to make incomprehensible choices in their desire to keep their families intact.
The Fruit of the Drunken Tree will be published on July 31, 2018.
They are quite isolated and play together, go to school on a bus and only shop in the few stores near their home.The mother and wife in the story, Senora Santiago, was herself from a poor family but married a man who worked for an oil company.
She felt it was her way of helping the less fortunate by trying to hire the girls from destitute families.Petrona was the newest maid she hired and is introduced at the beginning of the story.Petrona tells the novel from her perspective.
IT’S THAT TYPE OF BOOK!!!!!
AUDIOBOOK PAGE TURNING WITH MAGNETIC POWERS - the reader is willingly a captive.
It goes without saying that author Ingrid Rojas Contreras is a great storyteller....I was in knots at times - on the verge of tears so many times- completely crying at the end .
It’s THE EXPERIENCE.....not anything I write here that makes this book magnificent.
- driving through darkness- Barbie dolls - fear - more fear .....and so many heartbreaking moments: “mama, are you ok?” Mama never cried ......BUT SHE *was* crying!!You’ll meet Chula, ( youngest sister and narrator) Casandra, and their mother.
Ok truth- I added this one based on its title.
The reality is, its flower, if consumed, can make one act as silly as a drunk 😵 and eventually poison it’s victim.
In the background, the civil war rages in Columbia.
Until it moves to the forefront and the little tranquility known for this family disappears and in its place the violence becomes the norm.
A staged kidnapping which goes awry; a missing father; a traitor.Not a place I would ever visit knowing its history of civil war.
A disturbingly fictional account based on reality.A slow start but worth the patience.
Then, I saw it was about Columbia and Pablo Escobar and I immediately went to my library to grab it.
The story alternates between the young girl in the family, Chula, and their live-in also very young maid, Petrona.
Little Chula wanted to go out one day wearing her hair in a pony tail but her mother screamed at her how easy it would be for someone to grab her by her pony tail and kidnap her.
The author wrote this book, using part of what happened to her as a small child growing up in Columbia.
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestI wonder about Goodreads users sometimes. People will pile on to heap praises about one book in particular while utterly ignoring brilliant contributions to the literary canon like this. I almost didn't read this book because it was such a wild card - and I am so glad I did not do that. In many ways, FRUIT OF THE DRUNKEN TREE explores similar themes to other women-centered works of literary fiction like GIRLS BURN BRIGHTER or HOMEGOING. The
She lives in one of those shacks, called invasions, and is working to support her family in the absence of a real provider.FRUIT OF THE DRUNKEN TREE, which is another name for the Angel's Trumpet flower, navigates the rocky political landscape of a country ruled by criminals, in a time of great inequality and political upheaval.
Chula's family, on the other hand, can afford to think big picture, and her mother was in favor of the liberal politician and reformist, Luis Carlos Galán, who wanted to end the corruption and drug running.I really loved this story and thought that the author did a great job giving voice to Chula and Petrona.
Buddy read in group Reading for Pleasure, review to follow when buddy read over. 4 stars for story3 stars for prose 3.5 stars overall
Despite these misgivings I am convinced The Fruit of the Drunken Tree can hold it's own with other headlining debut novels such as In my Mad and Furious City and There There.
In a way this is a "coming of age" novel narrated in turns by 7 year old Chula and her maid Petrona, who comes from the Invasiones ( Colombias version of slums).
Chula's morbid fascination with death ( she gets particularly focused on a child's leg she witnesses' on the news ) didn't seem age appropriate at first but I came to the conclusion that it would be almost impossible to live in Colombia at this time and protect your children from this information.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/I can’t believe I’m the first of my Goodreads friends to have read this. It seems like it was everywhere for a minute. And honestly? As soon as I saw the words . . . .  I was in. What can I say? I’m a cheap sell and my husband won’t wait for me when it comes to Netflix so there’s no chance I can keep up with Narcos to get my Pablo Escobar fix. Now that I’m finished???? It wasn’t at all what I was expecting since I didn’t read the (way
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/I can’t believe I’m the first of my Goodreads friends to have read this.
I’m a cheap sell and my husband won’t wait for me when it comes to Netflix so there’s no chance I can keep up with Narcos to get my Pablo Escobar fix.
The story here focuses mainly on Chula, her life and her observations of what is going on around her with entries provided by Petrona about her life away from the estate (Petrona’s story probably would have earned 72 Stars and had me hospitalized from fangirling myself to death).
Fruit of the Drunken Tree by Ingrid Rojas Contreras delivers a vivid, profoundly engrossing coming of age story that is told through two young girls who couldn't be more different, yet, they share a connection that is unheard of given the circumstancesFruit of the Drunken Tree begins with the primary narrator, Chula, studying a photo of a young girl she once knew in Bogota.
Although Contreras writing is poetic, I couldn't stop feeling anxious for both Petrona and Chula as they navigated through the circumstances of their lives.
Before long, I couldn't tear myself away from Chula and Petrona's story.
I do not like the writing found in this book.
A book’s credibility is tied to believable prose.A mismatch between the words and the age of the person speaking them is not the only problem with the writing.
She was born and raised in Bogota, Colombia, and has received awards for her writing.
This book emphasizes drama over factual, informative content.
Happiness and sadness can be determined from words and need not be played out for listeners in a cinematic fashion.I wish to state clearly that I rate the book and its narration separately.
Both the book’s content and its narration I dislike.
This was a surprise.
The blurb doesn’t really do this book justice.
It’s not so much about the friendship of a girl and a teenage maid; it wasn’t a friendship, it was more of a desperate, awkward relationship under impossible circumstances.
“And some, I assume, are good people.” The destruction of a country, a generation, a girl and a teenaged maid was lingering and absolute.
I finished this book 12 hours ago and still feel angry and hopeless - maybe an odd reaction to a sad, subtle, and gorgeously written novel.
Maybe not.
He is an unusual inconvenience for a family that wants to go to the mall or a movie until events and the news press their way into Chula's consciousness.The book overlays a story onto a real timeline of Colombia.
I've been asked not to quote, but I found this a welcome rendering of a fascinating girl that took me back to the magical kingdom of childhood.And then it dumped me, along with Chula and Petrona and all the other characters into the confusing world of adulthood with all its cloying tragedy, but we are all still alive.The novel deals deftly with class differences and the way having enough or far too little molds children.
Thank you so much Doubleday Books for providing my free copy of FRUIT OF THE DRUNKEN TREE by Ingrid Rojas Contreras - all opinions are my own.This is a gorgeous, heart-wrenching debut that I completely devoured.
This is a coming-of-age story about two young girls from two very different worlds with an incredible bond.
Although Chula is the primary narrator, reading from Petrona’s perspective adds a level of depth to the story that I enjoyed.
The friendship between Chula and Petrona is compelling and propulsive, as their two experiences are very different and Chula’s cloistered point-of-view was almost painful to read.
This novel takes place in Colombia at the time of Pablo Escobar.
Their stories are told in alternating chapters and are set against the drama of what is happening in Colombia with the rise of the vicious drug cartels.
It is a good story about a historical period of time and place I really knew little about but it was too long and meandering.
At the end, the author’s note explains that much of the novel was based on her experiences, which probably explains why so much detail was stuffed into the book.
It’s always enlightening when you read books where you live a life you otherwise could not fathom.
Chula Santiago’s story begins when she is just 7-years-old.
Juxtaposed to Chula, is the story of Petrona Sanchez, who lives in the Las Invasiones (the shanty town on the steep slope of a mountain).
Chula and Petrona form an attachment of sorts.
The Santiagos lose their water and now have to haul it in from elsewhere.Cassandra has a habit of chewing the limbs off her Barbie dolls, but that doesn’t stop the girls from forming pretend paramilitary groups with them.
[Who needs GI Joes?] As for Petrona, she has to deal with real paramilitary groups that result in the deaths of family members.
— Ingrid Rojas Contreras, Fruit of the Drunken Tree..Ingrid Rojas Contreras’ debut novel, “Fruit of the Drunken Tree” was inspired by the author’s own personal experiences.
It’s a difficult read, there’s lot of devastating scenes that were hard to swallow; but the tone of the novel remains somewhat linear entirety of the book.
As both girls' families scramble to maintain stability amidst the extreme violence & political turmoil — car bombs, kidnapping, and assassination, Chula & Petrona forges an unexpected friendship, entangled in dangerous situations & web of secrecy.
Be warned Fruit of the Drunken Tree has a very slow start.
Fruit of the Drunken Tree is not perfect, but shows glimpses of absolute brilliance, and as this is my first book of Columbia in the era of Pablo Escobar I was fully absorbed and appalled by the history of this country.The Story: The perils of day-to-day existence in late-20th-century Colombia—a time of drug lords, guerrillas, kidnappings, and car bombs—are glimpsed through the eyes of a child and her family's teenage maid, whose relationship exposes two facets of the class divide.
DNF at 40%Sigh. I thought I would love this - instead I found myself not wanting to pick it up and not caring for the choice of the dual narrative or the pacing... or the writing style. The story had such potential, but because of the reasons listed above I found it dry and dull. Unfortunate because this was one of my most anticipated reads of the year but I don’t have the patience to see if it improves.
I added this then removed it from my TBR but then changed my mind and picked it up again.
It was a bit of a hard slog for me, I know nothing of this history of Columbia and didn't have internet access to look anything up.
The main issue I had with this was that I had to try to keep remembering that Chula was a small child and yet the writing seemed to me to be representing a much more mature teen or someone closer to young adult.
I have added a star for that.
3 stars for the book itself as I think it will stay with me for a good while.
Content Warning: Rape, Child Soldiers, Disturbing Violent Imagery, Extreme PovertyChula and Petrona are two young girls struggling to grow up in a increasingly dangerous country. Chula and Petrona meet when Petrona is hired to be a maid for Chula's family. The novel is told through Petrona and Chula's point of view. They perspectives worked well, contrasting the very different thoughts and obstacles these young girls faced to survive childhood. The novel details their experiences and the pol
Content Warning: Rape, Child Soldiers, Disturbing Violent Imagery, Extreme PovertyChula and Petrona are two young girls struggling to grow up in a increasingly dangerous country.
The novel is told through Petrona and Chula's point of view.
Many disturbing and unsettling things happen to Chula and Petrona's family and the author does a good job of describing it from a child's point of view.
The diversity and unique voices in the book kept things flowing and me engaged.
Despite the slow parts of the book, I enjoyed it overall and will continue to look for more work by this author.
Where Chula and her sister Cassandra spend their days full of mischief, harassing the local ‘witch’ and letting their wild imaginations run free, Petrona’s life is spent working for her poverty striken family, consumed with fears about her brothers and sister, all too aware of the drug lords that swallow young men, seducing the poor with food, televisions (even if they don’t work), and promises of power.
Watched over by an astute mistress, Petrona mustn’t fail, she needs every bit of her earnings to feed her family, to be the ‘head’ of the house that her brothers have failed at.Chula’s parents are rarely together, with her father away working hard.
Ingrid Rojas Contreras was born and raised in Bogotá, Colombia, and this is where her remarkable debut novel, Fruit of the Drunken Tree, takes place.In a time when Pablo Escobar, infamous drug lord and head of one of the most dangerous criminal families in the world, was at the height of his power, seven year old Chula and her family enjoy relatively safe lives.
Petrona and Chula develop an unlikely and heartfelt friendship despite their differences.Chula lives with her sister and parents who enjoy carefree lives, aside from Chula’s father often traveling for work.
SO FANTASTIC. THIS BOOK DESTROYED ME. I cannot find a single thing that was not right in the book or writing. And wow, what an excellent writer Ingrid is.Biggest book hangover. Review for another day. READ IT!!!
"Mamá always said -- the life she knew was a last-minute tsunami that could sweep away fathers, money, good, and children."Chula and her family live in Bogatá in a nice home with all the standard comforts.
Just a few miles away, their young housekeeper, Petrona, lives in a makeshift hut in the hills with the remnants of her large family and no comforts.
The story is told in two perspectives: nine-year-old Chula and fifteen-year-old Petrona, both of which are laced with an ominous expectation of something terrible looming just over the horizon.
Told in alternating perspectives of the seven-year-old daughter and the maid, the reader witnesses firsthand the physical and emotional destruction of the various para-military groups.
I won't go too far into detail, because I think the heavy subject requires an immersive reading experience, but I will point readers to the author's note.
This novel belongs to the own voices category, meaning that the author wrote this having experienced something similar herself.
Like many books with alternating perspectives, I was a bit more invested in one voice over the other.
The other perspective, that of a child, made for a more accessible reading experience on my end.
Set in Bogota, Colombia in the 1990s, Fruit of the Drunken Tree is an incredibly well crafted novel told mostly from the perspective of Chula, an upper middle class girl living a happy life with her older sister, mother, and father.
I couldn't stop reading this book, and Chula's wry and sometimes painful perspective is a key reason why.Contreras also expertly contrasts the life of a middle class family with that of Petrona's, who is forced to work to support her family from the day she gets her period.
Although I was intrigued from the moment I read the title something kept me away.
Luckily the TOB longlist came out and Fruit of the Drunkern Tree moved to the top of my TBR.
Narrated by a young girl and her maid, Fruit of the Broken Tree is a coming of age story set in the midst of war.
It draws the reader to the experiences of children during times of political unrest.
I find that the day-to-day plights of children during unrest are typically muted and glossed over in refugee literature.
Fruit of the Drunkern Tree was eye-opening and heart breaking in this regard.
and I understood I had risked everything for another woman's daughter, and nobody would do the same for me."Fruit of the Drunken Tree is a coming-of-age novel set in Escobar-era Colombia, alternating narratives between Chula who is the youngest of two sisters in an upper middle-class household and Petrona, their live-in maid, who has lost her dad and multiple brothers to violence and drugs and provides for her family in a mountainous slum neighborhood of Bogota.
Having had little background information on the political history of Colombia, I felt confused about the different political and military groups at times and did some extra reading.
