https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/363499.Devil_s_Bride
Framing her jaw, Devil lifted her face, looked down on pale cheeks, at eyes awash with tears, then he bent his head and kissed her set lips. "You'll never lose me," he whispered. "I'll never leave you." One of my favorite historicals  This is the introduction to the Cynster family (and what a family it is   ). I was actually re-reading this one, so it was kind of funny to see all those men and women who'll get their own books :) Most of the time, I was like: Oh look, that's Vane, I love his boo
Framing her jaw, Devil lifted her face, looked down on pale cheeks, at eyes awash with tears, then he bent his head and kissed her set lips.
Devil is intent on making Honoria his duchess, but she constantly refuses, she doesn't want to marry anyone, especially not a piratical autocrat (her words XD) like Devil.So basically, they work together to find Tolly's (the dead guy) murderer, the rest of the time Devil tries to convince Honoria she should marry him, and Honoria tries to seduce Devil and find out more about passion 
BUT, he can be very persuasive, and Honoria soon discovers passion and desire through Devil's kisses, and she wants more ( 

i love devil with an intensity that terrifies my husband. i can't help it.
I was then left with the excurciating task of reading about the h/h trying to figure out whodunnit through the whole book.
I hate these suspense storylines messing up a good romance.So, the romantic tension has fizzled, the suspense/mystery is non-intriguing....what's left to read about?
Which, lets face it, I LOVE the sex scenes in romance novels.
Locked together, they soared, gasped, then fractured--into a selfless void of aching peace beyond the reach of human senses."And again..."As usual, she was rushing--he set himself to slow her down, bringing her to that plane where she could appreciate his expertise, savor all he could give her, rather than fly headlong to her fate.
I usually have good instincts when it comes to stories; I can normally sense, even early on, whether I'll end up liking or disliking it.
The first few chapters were written in a way that was very similar to the traditional regency style, but this actually changed as the story progressed, becoming more modern in tone and feel halfway through it.Another thing about the writing that annoyed me was the abrupt changes in the time setting.
Chapter 18, however, didn't follow the same pattern; it fast forwarded to Honoria and Devil's wedding.
English woodsman’s cottage★★★★ (This is a review of the audiobook.) When someone wanted to do a “buddy read” (which you know I can’t resist!) of this one, I decided I’d listen this time, even though I’m not a big fan of Simon Prebble’s. (I just couldn’t get into an older man reading the love scenes to me. However, now that I’m older, he isn’t so bad. LOL!) Nevertheless, Mr. Prebble does an admirable job of this one. The old biddies of the ton are hilarious and the duke is sufficiently arrogant.
(I just couldn’t get into an older man reading the love scenes to me.
**sigh** I think it is because I’m definitely one of ‘those’ readers.
You know the kind that the marketing people just adore – who loves a duke in the story!
I love that Honoria puts herself right in the thick of the investigation.However, I love the romance, too!
Devil thinks he has his feelings all under control, but he’s in for as much of a surprise as Honoria.
The love scenes are pretty hot, especially if you haven’t read the other books.
This book is apparently a favorite of many romance readers, but I didn't get the appeal.
Sentence structure was definitely more sophisticated than most, but character development was not believable (even by romance novel standards).
Disappointingly, it is not titled Devil's Bride because it is about the bride of Satan, Lucifer, the Prince of Darkness, lord of hell and all evil, but the bride of some jerk with "Devil" as an improbable nickname.
Excessive talking about hero's chest, which could be off-putting for readers not attracted to big chested men.
Eventually became constantly nervous that hero would unexpectedly take off shirt, leading to yet another breathless description.
Regrettably, since the hero is so amenable to the match, the author then had to make the conflict come from elsewhere.
Even more regrettably, she placed the burden for almost all conflict squarely on the shoulders of the heroine, Honoria.
I got to the point where I started rolling my eyes and skimming passages every time Devil and Honoria started pawing at each other.
Er, sorry, I mean every time they began testing the limitless bonds of their love through the jungle-like sensory practice of soft hands sliding on soft skin to create a miasmic feeling of need and heat.
This story just didn’t work for me because I didn’t like the jerk alpha who needed a good shaking for a wakeup call.The story grabs your attention relatively well from the start with the heroine Honoria (what a horrible name,) the drab governess, and Devil crossing paths where a crime has been committed.
So it sounds good and it could’ve been what with the hot sex (despite the fact that the first real scene was sooooo loooonng it became tedious), tension building and generally good romance but there’s the arrogance of the hero that just never lets up and the stupid crime that needs to be solved by the Cynster clan –seemed like the regency version of the mafia which could work but just didn’t here.
*gasp* Where's my "I love you?" I never realized how important this was until I finished this book and realized our hero never says it to his heroine.
The book starts out with a bang, with the murder of Devil's cousin which Honoria happened to come across right at the end.
This was my first Cynster book and I enjoyed it all so much.
It was extremely enjoyable reading about the scion of this proud and noble family, Devil Cynster, and how he fell so hard and fast for Honoria.
Some thoughts on this novel...1) The mystery was very thinly veiled.
However, for the horny Cynster family, it seemed very appropriate!
;)3) I still can't get over the nicknames of all the Cynster cousins.
Who would chose to call themself "LUCIFER"!?!??!?!4) I can see why the book Beyond Heaving Bosoms The Smart Bitches' Guide to Romance Novels called this series "humptastic".
The Cynsters were like Enegizer bunnies!
And someone told me that the books get more humptastic as you move through the series.Overall, it was still a fun book to read.
I liked the arrogance of Devil.
5.0 "Why am I just discovering this Gem" StarsI have a new book boyfriend and his name is Devil Cynster."I’m not a gentleman, I’m a nobleman, a distinction I suspect you understand very well."DevilDevil has a reputation as a rake and seducer of women.
Devil is an unmovable force, feared and respected by the ton and he has just met the woman he wants to marry.
Why deny ourselves such innocent pleasure?"It was not the first time she'd been kissed, yet it was.Honoria is independence personified.
And there is no way in hell that she will marry that tyrant, Devil.
It was so painfully obvious, in fact, that I actually managed to convince myself that the obvious answer could not have been the killer - that this kind of painful lack of subtlety could only mean that the author was trying to throw her audience off the scent.I was wrong.
It is one thing to have her dreams cast aside - it's at least realistic from a historical standpoint - but it's quite another that she should give up on those dreams so easily and suddenly become thoroughly content with life as a baby factory.And let's be honest - I do not read romance novels for the character development or the original plots.
The book got off to a good start, with a smart, independent heroine who had unconventional but well-planned ambitions and could keep her cool in a difficult situation.
Worse, he completely dismissed the heroine's life plan as foolish (so did her brother), and in the end she never gets to fulfill her dreams.
I decided I couldn't waste any more of my life trying to read this book and did not finish it.
I did peek at the end, though, to make sure I was right about the murderer and about the heroine's apparent future as a brood mare for the hero, and sadly my expectations were fulfilled on both counts.
Very different from what I'm used to. Reminds me a lot of books I read about 20 yrs ago. Devil was so serious yet at times I just laughed at how he tried to tame Honoria. Lots of suspense and the passion was beautiful. Very sexy historical romance.
So begins the ultimate clash of will between a man unaccustomed to the word “no” and a woman determined to maintain her independence at all costs.This is my second attempt at Devil’s Bride and I’m glad that I gave it another chance.
The romance is entertaining, the characters engaging and the mystery adds spice to the story.Honoria and Devil are the perfect match.
The Bar Cynster cousins are completely incorrigible but in an endearing way and the Cynster wives/mothers provide Honoria with an incredible sense of belonging.
Nevertheless, it adds an extra layer of intensity to Honoria and Devil’s romance.All in all, a fun read and the epilogue made me smile.
July 13,2012 - just finished rereading this and I loved it as much as the first time!
I LOVE DEVIL!
In case you couldn't understand that cause I was yelling, let me say it in a calmer voice...I LOVE DEVIL!
Sorry, I just can't help the way I feel and I need to express it appropriately.Devil Cynster is arrogant, overbearing, possessive, and HOT.
Honoria is in her own right just as arrogant and possessive and stubborn as her husband.
Together they make a formidable pair.The best thing about this is that it wasn't just a good romance.
Yes, I thought it was that good :)
3.5 'Devilish' StarsYes, I gave this series a try, since one of my fav authors raved to me so much about it.
Devil really was a fantastic H - apart from his constant emphasis on his über experience in all matters sexual - and Honoria as a strong and sassy h.
Lord, the levity of this whole matter, though not the focus of the book, unavoidable spoiled my enjoyment of the book.
I couldn't let go, but like I said, still a very enjoyable HR!
4 stars.Some books inspires you to write amazing reviews and some books just leaves you with nothing to say.
How can you not love a hero named Devil?2.
The first 15% of the book.What I did not like:1.
In the first part of the book I thought I would scream if she said that she was not marrying him one more time.
She reminded me too much of Amelia in Mine Till Midnight and while I'm sure she will be an excellent character in the next books about the family I could not like her enough to route for her.
This book rather depends on you suspending disbelief a lot in order to enjoy it.
The mystery isn't really much of one (I don't think, I didn't actually get to the reveal, but you can practically hear a villain theme song start up anytime a particular character enters a scene and since the rest of the book isn't exactly subtle, I doubt it's being coy here).
And the main characters take turns being kind of stupid.
And the steam level is way past my preferences.
I made it a touch past half-way and simply lost interest.
The gold standard Regency and the Stephanie Laurens' Cynster romance that sets the bar for all the rest. Honoria is a strong minded heroine that the Devil has to convince to marry for a nice change of pace. A romantic ideal to the max, he uses any and all weapons including sexual seduction to woo Honoria.A plethora of hunky brothers and cousins are set to roll out the series. Beware, the rest are more or less pale imitations of Devil and Honoria in that the heroes are the ones doing the convincing that marriage is the ideal for the women.
This book had its issues. No I love you from the hero, she gave up on her dreams of travel pretty quickly (although, to be honest, I had to agree with Devil and her brother...waaaay too dangerous by herself), and I figured out the whodunit without breaking a sweat. Still, it was a thoroughly enjoyable romance between Honoria and Devil. It was just what I needed to pull me out of my slump!
This was my first Stephanie Laurens book and it was a fabulous surprise. Very real, kind of graphic chemistry but believable connections between the main characters. If you want HR with heat, this is where to start.
Instead it was: make-out, slip in the tiniest crumb of information about what Devil was doing to solve the murder but not enough to actually tell you anything worthwhile, sex scene, repeat.
I don't mind when a book focuses on the physical aspects of the character's relationship but this was starting to feel like the same scene, different bedroom.
That's my favourite part of a series like this - the build up and development of the rest of the characters so by the time you get to their story you have a vested interest in their lives and happiness plus you get little updates on how the previous couples are doing.
I found various things about this book super irritating and not to my taste, but the series is about a huge tightly knit family and how each member ultimately finds love AND THAT IS MY KRYPTONITE.Soooo, I'll probably read the rest.I hope they don't have "mystery" plotlines though.
Whoever could have done it?"Honoria: "I don't know but I want to help you find out because I love you all, my new family.
Humor and two very strong willed people, a murder and the little indiscretion of spending the night alone with each other make for a wonderful start to this book.
For me, this book has it all: romance, humor and a touch of mystery.Devil Cynster has decided that Honoria is to be his future wife.
He is very impressed with her and as sad as the murder of Devil's cousin Tolly is, he takes full advantage of the circumstances and appearances to attempt make Honoria bend to his will.
After losing her parents and young siblings in a tragic accident, she is not going to lose her heart to That Devil Cynster.
I have to say one thing first.
The sex scenes in this book were just out-of-this-world HOT.
I really didn't empathise much with Honoria and I really felt like hitting her on the head for half the book.
I loved Devil though.
He was a perfectly sexy hero ♥ The book is mostly about Devil convincing Honoria to marry him after they meet during a storm in the middle of nowhere.
The first half of the book was slightly repetitive and had its boring moments but the sex scenes are definitely worth reading it for.
Absolutely loved devil. Such a controled man, he is my favourite of the cynsters. I always go back to this book if I have nothing to read. Its a keeper.
Miss Honoria Anstruther-Wetherby has plans, plans for adventure and excitement, so what she doesn't need is the unwanted attention of a Duke. Especially when that Duke is a Cynster, the head of a family notorious for being wild, but Devil Cynster, Duke of St. Ives is determined to have Honoria as his bride and the more she stubbornly denies him, despite the attraction and passion between them, the more he wants her. But, he must also keep her safe, there is a murderer intent on doing harm to hi
Especially when that Duke is a Cynster, the head of a family notorious for being wild, but Devil Cynster, Duke of St. Ives is determined to have Honoria as his bride and the more she stubbornly denies him, despite the attraction and passion between them, the more he wants her.
But despite his name I hesitate to call him a bad boy, as the Duke of St Ives and the head of the Cynster family Devil has a lot of responsibility on his broad shoulders and he takes them very seriously; nothing is more important to him than his family.
19/3 - I've been reading about the Cynsters for years, now I've finally gotten a hold of a copy of the original book from the library. Can't wait to see where it all started, the book that spawned 22 further books, so far (I wouldn't be surprised to see more Cynster stories featuring the younger set's children in the future, series like that can be never-ending). To be continued... SPOILERS FROM NOW ON!!!!!! 20/3 - Tolly's (what on earth is that short for?) half brother, Charles, is looking a li
Can't wait to see where it all started, the book that spawned 22 further books, so far (I wouldn't be surprised to see more Cynster stories featuring the younger set's children in the future, series like that can be never-ending).
Disappointed because that was way too easy to work out, and triumphant because "Yay!
To be continued...24/3 - Yep, it was Charles - that was way too easy to work out - I didn't know why but it was obvious from the beginning who.
This book was a great return to the Stephanie Laurens of old (return for me as I have been reading a lot of the more recent entries in the series, which have often been disappointing).
