https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3483.Special_Topics_in_Calamity_Physics
Reviews of “Special Topics in Calamity Physics” and the Bottle of Açaí Juice I Bought for Lunch Cleverly Masked as SAT Test QuestionsChoices:(a) Special Topics in Calamity Physics(b) The bottle of açaí juice I bought for lunch(c) Both a and b(d) Neither a nor bQuestions(1) __ I had heard good things about it(2) __ I bought it on a whim(3) __ If feeling extremely charitable, I might call it “frothy”(4) __ It seemed sort of good in the beginning, but by the end I was like, “Blaahahhgajh.
By having a complex, intelligent narrator, she’s trying to say, “I’m doing it on purpose!” but it still seems indulgent and silly and, ultimately, keeps us holding her world at arm’s length.Pessl also struggles with dialogue and realistic characters - often I found myself thinking, that high school student would never say that or that gas station attendant would never say that.
Without exception, the riveting chapters were the chapters with a lot of action in them - chapters where it felt like Pessl forgot that she was a writer trying to impress people with her first novel.
Donna Tartt wrote a splendid book called The Secret History which both celebrated and skewered hyper-intellectualism as well as explored the process of interacting with a text and the pleasures of narrative devices.
Also, there's some sort of limp romantic subplot that I guess we're supposed to care about.So where The Secret History is a brilliant story of the delights and dangers of text and narrative and a wrenching depiction of a classical sort of madnesss, Special Topics in Calamity Physics is the same book shat out and frosted with irritatingly perky metaphors and the worst dialogue I've seen outside of a Harlequin pulper.
I've read other reviews and I believe the negative reviews have been written by people who didn't take time to really read the book and follow it all the way through.
There is murder, disappearances, first sexual experiences, shyness, embarassing moments of being young and tongue-tied in front of a class, but more than anything, there is the touching love of a young girl for her father, and then how she deals with some unexpected, heart wrenching blows to her life.
Throughout the book, there were dozens and dozens of laugh out loud moments excellent insights into relationships and the little things that make us tick.
It’s probably supposed to help clear up my first problem with this passage, but it only serves to remove me from the story in two really stupid ways: 1) I stop reading and go look it up, or 2) Since I’m reading a book about a high school senior who can’t possibly know all of the books and references in parentheses, I can only assume this is Marisha Pessl being an annoying smartass with this kind of crappy Authorial Intrusion.(There’s also “Visual Aids” throughout the book.
I tried with this book.
I gave it 150 pages, and at this moment in time I just can't get into it.
I held out hope for this one because I chose it for book club (sorry, friends!) and it's been on my shelf for 2+ years, so I felt like I had to conquer it.
But it's only day 3 of 2017, and I don't want to start off my year forcing myself to read a book I'm not enjoying—even if that means quitting on the first book of the year.
Now I'm on to better reads!
Yesterday it took me 5 hours to crawl through 18 pages, so I think it's safe to say I'm not really into this. I adored Night Film, so I thought I should give this a try, but it's not really my thing. Oh well!
But this book made me feel the way I did during a college lecture on Lolita, where the professor broke down Lolita by numbers, the numbers of the license plates, the hotel room numbers, etc.
And so it turned out, that not only was Nabokov churning out a literary masterpiece, but a mathematical formula as well.
Certainly not 21-year-old Me. It might be gimmicky, but these sort of books are the literary equivalent of walking while chewing gum while playing the cello - the authors are strange maestros of many art forms.
There's such a lot of time spent obfuscating, demonstrating how clever she is, developing stacked metaphors and allusions, that the story is difficult to get lost in.
You are constantly reminded that you are reading a novel by a very smart young lady.
She, most of all, has so little emotion that it's difficult to believe her on the few occasions when she freaks out; when she cries or yells, you wonder, "Where did that come from?"Also, some of my friends have complained (rightly) that the last fifty-ish pages seem to belong to a completely different book, that everything changes drastically right at the end, without ample warning.
And really, it's only her first book, so she's got lots of time to improve.
This one is going back on the pile.
I made it over 100 pages this time.
That's something, right?My problems with this book are the glacial pace and overwritten sentences.
It's like an even more wordy Donna Tartt book.
The pretentious, pompous tone of the book is also a turn-off.
Picking up the book to read it began feeling like a chore before I finally threw in the towel.I'm a man with a finite lifespan and thus a finite amount of books I'll be able to read before I reach the clearing at the end of the path.

This is a unique book in that you really won’t understand the point of anything until you finish.
What have I learned?
I've learned that apparently it's possible for a large number of fawning reviewers to confuse "pretentious" with "intelligent".
I could feel his eyes dripping down me, coursing through the folds of Jefferson's crispy black dress that resembled an upside-down shitake mushroom if you squinted at it.
The silvery-black fabric felt flimsy, as if it could stiffly peel away like tinfoil around cold fried chicken."'nuff said.
See, several years ago, I read Donna Tartt's The Secret History, a dark book about a group of preciously sophisticated, murderous wacked-out Classics majors at a small liberal arts college.
but it was about Classics majors, and they are just plain weird.)As a literature junkie, I also think I understand why these characters are always precociously smart- because former English majors and literature geeks dream them up, and it's such fun to dream up a character that lets you quote Joyce and Shakespeare nonstop.So, maybe I couldn't help but take this book with a grain of salt, and maybe the main character seemed just a bit too grown up for her years.
And that's because I've been around various people in the New York literary industry now long enough to know, that many of the decisions in that industry are made with the same immature dysfunction of a high-school Homecoming dance; that those who are chosen to become the next "Belle of the Ball" have been chosen perhaps because they're physically attractive, or popular, or are having sex with the captain of the football team, or have personality types that are easy to sell to others, or any of another thousand reasons besides that they simply deserve it.And indeed, as I started making my way this week through Marisha Pessl's Special Topics in Calamity Physics, the latest book from the literary world to be guilty of all the things mentioned above, the news didn't seem good; that for its first couple of hundred pages, the entire thing comes off as a grandly pretentious excuse for MFA holders to justify the years of their lives and tens of thousands of dollars they wasted to get that degree in the first place.
It's crammed in like a hermit crab in a too-small shell (that simile is my own (and purposefully poor), but not unlike the fifty million that litter every page of the book).Now, it does have one thing going for it: plot.
Because I certainly do want to know what happens, but damn, it's a slog.After finishing: As you can tell from the above, I initially hated this book.
And I think that figurative language should be spread out a bit, because it gets to a point that it's annoying and distracting.
In a way, I feel like Blue felt toward the end of this book; abandoned and forgotten.
So, I suppose, Special Topics in Calamity Physics was an apt novel to read during this unruly time in American politics.
Yeah, man, I couldn't have read a better (worse?) book around this time of year.Will you like Special Topics in Calamity Physics?
Dig it: The bible can be read by a hundred people and each person will have a different experience because that book is full of allegory and metaphor.
But do keep in mind that it’s a big book: over 500 pages or 21 hours of listening.
I don’t like giving up on books and I’d really enjoyed her 2014 novel  Night Film so I did try to stay with it.
At the point I gave up, Blue had already flagged another death and had introduced us to the fated lady.
The story was working its way – very slowly – the the point of her demise.
I think it’s the style as much as the pontification that got to me.
Eventually she learns that they are not worth knowing--a fact of growing up and graduating from teenagerhood.So if the Bluebloods are fascinating only due to their looks (which exert a gravitational pull on the eyes of everyone else, thereby inflating their fascination even for people like Blue who, as her dad might say, should know better), what about Hannah?
The entire novel is predicated on the premise that Hannah is worth writing/talking/freakishly obessing over.
Very early in the novel--I think it's the second time Blue meets her--Blue describes Hannah as this glowing personality whose words you just had to pay attention to, the assumption being that even if they are not particularly weighty, profound, or radiating wisdom like a nuclear reactor (ha!
This Gen-Nexter novel holds the pulse of the zeitgeist under its overachieving, overintelligent finger and lets it be known: this is the novel for our generation, for the eager me!me!&onlyme!s.
The heroine is such a brat, the reader oftens remembers past characters like these: uberegotist humanoids--selfish to the extreme, & SMILES--here is their side of the story (indeed, I know of one or two overachieving, overintelligent high schoolers which still instantly make me cringe).
That the young characters loathe and are still wholly attracted to the poor, poor teacher--that the ending is as bleak and miserable as an empty box...this is the new B.
I could easily attend a semester-long seminar about this book. Holy "coming of age with murder, suicide, conspiracy theories, and turns you don't see coming because you aren't worthy to walk in the same light as Marisha Pessl" shit, this book was great. Better than Night Film. Bravo.
***NO SPOILERS***What Special Topics in Calamity Physics is: a book about a sixteen-year-old girl and her dad living in a new town.
It’s clear her aim was to make this book as much of a character study as a knock-out mystery, and in many ways she did that.
No formulaic murder mystery would end this way, leaving me with feelings so mixed and with so much to ponder.(Tip: Re-read the introduction after finishing the book.)My Special Topics in Calamity Physics book haiku:Blue plays Nancy DrewWhen all she was planning onWas making new friends.
I found this style to be interesting, entertaining and a good fit for Blue's character, but over time it does wear, suggesting an author trying too hard to show off her cleverness.The first two-thirds of Topics reads as a coming of age story of self discovery as the intellectual and aloof Blue is drawn to the cipher of teacher Hannah Schneider and injected into the high school clique of the Bluebloods.
The main characters in The Secret History and The Likeness like Blue in Topics learn about themselves by uncovering these mysteries.
It was interesting at first - Messl has a way with words, certainly, and Blue's voice doesn't flag for the entire 514 pages - but by page 400 I was getting pretty impatient and started skimming all the asides, tangents, diversions, pit stops, drive-throughs, excursions that constitute the majority of the book.
It's that it gets so tiresome, with little happening in-between long, long pages (I know I've said "long, long pages" in previous reviews, so I guess I'm not keen on them), of introspective meanderings and quotes of Almighty Dad which just show that Blue isn't the independent free-thinker that she thinks she is.
They decide to spend her senior year of high school in one place -- Stockton, NC -- where Blue attends a prestigious private school and attracts the interest of Hannah Schneider, a beautiful and mysterious film studies teacher who mentors an exclusive clique of students, the Bluebloods.
I also love how Pessl describes the relationship between Blue and her father.
I do have some issues with the rendering of Hannah and the Bluebloods...I wanted to know more about them and their relationships with Blue but wound up just thinking rather poorly of them--which was disappointing.
Said genius high schooler (one Blue van Meer) lands her senior year--with likely prospects of Harvard--in an elite private high school where she is drawn into the spoiled richie-rich cream-of-the-crop clique of the school.
A few big holes for me were [THESE ARE FAIRLY MAJOR SO DON'T READ IF YOU WANT TO READ THIS BOOK.] (view spoiler)[How come none of the teens had cellphones throughout the entire novel?
This novel wasn't set in the 90s, every teen has a cellphone especially rich ones and it's not like there's no reception in the woods.
We are told from the beginning that Hannah dies a mysterious death and that the impact of her death is linked in Blue’s mind with making sense of her own mother’s death when she was an infant.
As Blue’s father moves nearly yearly from college to college, she grows up never experiencing any long lasting friendships or community ties and, consequently, comes to adopt her father’s mode of relying more on the lessons and ideas from books than the real world.This approach to life as one big lesson plan is a fascinating place to dwell for awhile as a reader.
The obvious similarity between the books is that both concern an elite group of young people in an academic setting (in this case, a much-admired clique known as the 'Bluebloods' in an American high school) whose friendships are torn apart by an unexpected death.
In fact, none of the characters are at all likeable - including Hannah, the supposedly charismatic teacher at the centre of the Bluebloods' friendship - although this is perhaps intentional.However, despite its imperfections, the book did draw me in.
i didn't really read this. i read about 30 pages before announcing (to the book's cover), "I HATE YOU, BOOK. SHUT UP!" anyone who wants more details as to why i despise the book that everyone else is raving about might need to buy me a drink first.
This book is a lot to take in. Unfortunately, for me it went from a solid 5-star to a lukewarm 3-star in the last 20%. Full review to come.
