https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/46114.The_Waves
The hand-written inscription in the copy I found used was worth the entire purchase anyway, read it:2/14/84Martin-I'm sure you know that you've been on my mind a great deal over the last few days.
But I do know that she was a deeply loving and strong woman, who had the grace and breadth of vision to raise a lovely, creative, and infinitely diverse family; and who was able to make me feel welcome and cared for within minutes of entering her home.Your mom's spirituality also affected me powefully.
So The Waves is the biography of six characters, all of whom speak for the other five as much as for themselves.
All six characters in The Waves experience a similar crucible childhood moment.
But they heap themselves on me; they sweep me between their great shoulders; I am turned; I am tumbled; I am stretched among these long lights, these long waves, these endless paths, with people pursuing, pursuing.”Each section depicts the next phase in the lifespan of the characters.
And in each section prevails the endless repetition of the sound and rhythm of the waves.
I begin to long for some little language such as lovers use, broken words, inarticulate words, like the shuffling of feet on the pavement.
All those hard "d"s, the rippling between "life" and "half" (deep ripples those, though I will not explore them here)…And the alliterative magic continues, bouncing like bows on taught strings, "L"'s for longing, little, language and lovers, the repetition of "words", shuffling the sentence like those feet on the pavement.
This is the tension between the beauty and craft of great prose, and the dirty, broken Truth of the World.
Yes. Never before I’ve read a book like this.
Our lives are nothing but a multitude of moments, of choices made, of friends found and lost, of replacements, of connections made, of books read, of words written, of mistakes committed, of lessons learnt, of stories told, of finding ourselves.
Sometimes we read thousands of words and not a single one of them rings true and sometimes we happen upon a book like The Waves in which every single word is conveying a truth of our being.
Woolf alternates between the main characters' perspectives in each of the novel's nine sections, focusing upon the ways in which the friends' perception of each other and their environment shifts over time, and she breaks the sections up with poetic interludes that sketch from an omniscient viewpoint a portrait of the sea at different times of the day.
Even as Woolf explores the interiority of each character, then, she frames selfhood as neither stable nor unitary, in addition to highlighting the artifice of her project.
The sun fell in sharp wedges inside the room. Whatever the light touched became dowered with a fanatical existence. A plate was like a white lake. A knife looked like a dagger of ice. Suddenly tumblers revealed themselves upheld by streaks of light. As I turn the pages of The Waves, Virginia Woolf talks to me, to my heart, my spirit and my soul, like I could not have imagined. Such splendor and beauty come to me through her words, and I feel like singing with her. She sings life, a life that be
As I turn the pages of The Waves, Virginia Woolf talks to me, to my heart, my spirit and my soul, like I could not have imagined.
Such splendor and beauty come to me through her words, and I feel like singing with her.
‘The waves fell; withdrew and fell again, like the thud of a great beast stamping.’ And I feel I am always eavesdropping on Bernard, Neville, Louis, Jinny, Susan and Rhoda, and I listen to them and journey with them from day to day.
And now I ask, “Who am I?” I have been talking of Bernard, Neville, Jinny, Susan, Rhoda and Louis.
The Waves is an absolute masterpiece: it’s an incredible novel that flows beautifully with torrents of majestic prose.  “I see nothing. We may sink and settle on the waves. The sea will drum in my ears. The white petals will be darkened with sea water. They will float for a moment and then sink. Rolling over the waves will shoulder me under. Everything falls in a tremendous shower, dissolving me.”   This is creative genius at its absolute finest within fiction. I felt like I was floating, awash
The Waves is an absolute masterpiece: it’s an incredible novel that flows beautifully with torrents of majestic prose.
It’s a profound exploration of the human soul and I lack the words to describe it as eloquently as it deserves.
In keeping this level of similarity Woolf explores identity.
Woolf explores so much of human experience here and the way she has written it is so ridiculously clever.
If anything, it’s a book about identity and how hard it can be to define it.
Then how lovely the smoke of my phrase is, rising and falling, flaunting and falling, upon red lobsters and yellow fruit, wreathing them into one beauty.And meantime, women carrying baskets And the tablecloth and its yellow stain And the recurring drop that falls.And time, says Bernard, lets fall its drop.
On the roof of my mind time, forming, lets fall its drop....This falling drop is time tapering to a point.As a drop falls from a glass heavy with some sediment, time falls.And meantime, women carrying pitchers on their headsAnd the constant naming of the days: Tuesday follows Monday: Wednesday, Tuesday.
Drop upon drop, says Bernard, silence falls.
|| But it still looks content on your skin; that color – like a sheet of fine, wet porcelain covering a tired, antique statue.
But it feels like my mind and body dissolved its hinges and fused into that of those six people who combed through life with the precision of a surgeon… || …and the flamboyance of an artist.
In the vast ocean of my life, our pulses flickered like inconsolable dreams; now made and now thrashed.
|| Well, in the suns that rise and moons that melt, we found meaning of life.
You say I stand like an antique statue?
654. The Waves, Virginia WoolfThe Waves is a 1931 novel by Virginia Woolf. It is considered her most experimental work, and consists of soliloquies spoken by the book's six characters: Bernard, Susan, Rhoda, Neville, Jinny, and Louis. Also important is Percival, the seventh character, though readers never hear him speak in his own voice. The soliloquies that span the characters' lives are broken up by nine brief third-person interludes detailing a coastal scene at varying stages in a day from su
As the six characters or "voices" speak, Woolf explores concepts of individuality, self and community.
Each character is distinct, yet together they compose (as Ida Klitgard has put it) a gestalt about a silent central consciousness.عنوانها: امواج (موج ها)؛ خیزابها ؛ ویرجینیا وولف (مهیا، صهبای دانش، افق) ادبیات؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: ماه دسامبر سال 1999 میلادیعنوان: امواج؛ اثر: ویرجینیا وولف؛ مترجم: فرشاد نجفی پور؛ تهران، محیا، 1377؛ در 248 ص؛ چاپ سوم 1388؛ شابک: 9789645577276؛ چاپ دیگر: تهران، صهبای دانش؛ 1389، شابک: 9786005692129؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان انگلیسی - سده 20 معنوان: موجها؛ اثر: ویرجینیا وولف؛ مترجم: مهدی غبرائی؛ تهران، افق، چاپ دوم 1386؛ در 398 ص؛ چاپ سوم 1387؛ چاپ چهارم 1389؛ پنجم: 1393؛ شابک: 9789643692131؛ در ادبیات انگلیس، دشوار می‌توان رمانی را یافت که بیش از موج‌ها به شعر نزدیک باشد.
Probably my favorite book ever written. The 'waves' become a compound metaphor of sheer brilliance; we are all a harmony in the chorus of life, a part of a whole but each an individual part of beauty equally beautiful in solidarity as the whole. I wish I could write a single sentence as glorious as Woolf.
Now though they pass plates of bread and butter and cups of milk at tea-time I see a crack in the earth and hot steam hisses up; and the urn roars as Ernest roared, and I am blown out hard like the pajamas,even while my teeth meet in the soft bread and butter, and I lap the sweet milk...""Since I am supposed," said Neville, "to be too delicate to go with them, since I get so easily tired then am sick, I will use this hour of solitude, this reprieve from conversation, to coast round the purlieus of the house and recover, if I can, by standing on the same stair half-way up the landing, what I felt what when I heard about the dead man through the swing-door last night when cook was shoving in and out the dampers.
If someone had told me a couple of years ago that I would actually enjoy books written in the stream-of-consciousness style, I would probably have laughed.
And Virginia Woolf is probably the most adept and poetic writer of this sort of writing.There’s no easy way for me to summarize this book.
It follows the lives of a group of friends; Bernard, Susan, Rhoda, Neville, Jinny, Louis and Percival, from childhood through adulthood.
We hear, in turn, the internal monologues of each of these characters and they help piece the story together, as well as inform us of the characters' personalities.Out of all the characters, I liked Bernard the most.
Woolf said she was writing to a rhythm and not to a plot and the novel is a series of interludes and episodes revolving around six characters Susan, Jinny, Rhoda, Bernard, Louis and Neville.
There is also Percival who does not feature in the novel, but is a focus for the others and whose early death in India has a significant effect on the others.
Woolf tends to base her characters on people she knew and The Waves is no exception.
The Waves is also Woolf’s reflection on the inexorable nature of death as Bernard sums up the whole thing in the closing pages.
Best book ever, I said when I finished before returning to the first non-italicized page to re-read phrases that this time around didn't baffle (as much).
Impressionistic, absolutely individuated, unpredictable, supremely insightful, and carefully crafted elevated language (phrases).
But this, although ~85 years old at this point, is timeless, since it's abstracted; the grains in the wood of the door, the path through the sand, the red carnation, the textures, the rhythms, and the curve of time, the "sex scene" on page 103, and of course the bands of onrushing waves are timeless.
. ." Will need to re-read multiple times of course.
"Yes, this is the eternal renewal, the incessant rise and fall and fall and rise again."- Virginia Woolf, The WavesI've read several of Woolf's books.
But I think I loved this one the most.
It makes me think of all those moments in my life that Virginia's words and phrases could make make alive and make poetic.
It is a story about narrative, life, growing old, death, friendship.
My wife isn't a fan of Virginia Woolf.
But I, I prefer Virginia Woolf.
I like seeing these men and women as pieces of Virginia Woolf.
I love how she folds them into her book.
Novelplaypoem"The Waves" is arguably the  greatest single work of literary Modernism,  superior to Woolf’s own "Mrs Dalloway" and "To the Lighthouse" and potentially to Joyce’s "Ulysses". The first two of these works are temporally much more limited in scope, the last so stylistically diverse that it can’t be said to have a singular integrity (which is not to criticize it; this criterion is quite the opposite of its design and intent). "The Waves" extends beyond one occasion and encapsulates ent
(Photo taken on my walk this morning.) Kevin Pietersen’s First Innings, The Gabba, Brisbane, 2013 – 2014 Cricket Test Match Series[As told by Virginia Woolf]I hate darkness and sleep and night, and lie longing for the day to come.
I am often in disgrace for idleness, for laughing; but even as Alastair Cook grumbles at my feather-headed carelessness, when I’m in the centre, I am here to catch sight of something moving - the red kookaburra ball – and smash it.In the middle of the wicket, I am now a boy only with a colonial accent holding my willow with my knuckles against Mitchell Johnson’s stitched leather ball.
The absolute reign of flowing chaos Jinny the glamourous Aphrodite; Susan the maternal nurturer; Rhoda the lesbian nymph; Bernard the egoless poet; Louis the class-conscious outsider; Neville the hypersensitive conservative; Percival the masculine god.
"How much better is silence; the coffee-cup, the table.
Let me sit here for ever with bare things, this coffee-cup, this knife, this fork, things in themselves, myself being myself.
There is no transcendental meaning in this absolute reign of flowing chaos, only the assurance of violent deaths as the waves broke on the shore.
I've read this book several times.
It vouches for the power of a book when the reader can be so moved by the ending after only truly paying attention to the final chapter.I love what The Waves says about being human, being flawed, the importance of small events, small moments, small thoughts, how they can infest your life, the evolution of a human being, what people mean to each other, how they try to interweave, the courage needed to live, the collective human experience.
It took a second read for me to put the whole book together and have every page count (and every page does matter).
"Is he dead?" I thought, and kissed you, with my heart jumping under my pink frock like the leaves, which go on moving, though there is nothing to move them.
Louis, stone-carved, sculpturesque; Neville, scissor-cutting, exact; Susan with eyes like lumps of crystal; Jinny dancing like a flame, febrile, hot, over dry earth; and Rhoda the nymph of the fountain always wet.As I neared the end of The Waves, I read through a conversation in an online writing group started by a writer who works as a first reader for a literary agent.
Who's got their claws in you my friend?Into your heart I'll beat again D.J. Matthews, 12/96Six classmates (3 girls and 3 boys) go through seven stages of life via a sequence of interior monologues, sprinkled with allusions to the Earth's relation to the Sun and to the moon's gravitational pull on the ocean--the tides--as time passes. This is my favorite Woolf novel; it's such a beautiful composition and an incredible feat to create the feel and sense that the characters are flowing and breaking
Who's got their claws in you my friend?Into your heart I'll beat again
D.J. Matthews, 12/96Six classmates (3 girls and 3 boys) go through seven stages of life via a sequence of interior monologues, sprinkled with allusions to the Earth's relation to the Sun and to the moon's gravitational pull on the ocean--the tides--as time passes.
She rejected plot and character conventions in favor of a narrative driven solely by voices to show, I think, that human existence, like waves, means constantly experiencing fluidity and regeneration.
Poetry in prose.Woolf writes without rules, no punctuation, no paragraphs, pure sensations, disarrayed and irrational thoughts, explosion of feelings.We see life through the eyes of six characters, three men and three women, each one strikingly different from the other but close friends and lovers, from childhood to old age.Early innocence, pure thoughts, playful games become more and more complicated when the characters grow up.
It was devastating to witness how everyday life could break the characters' dreams, how bitter disappointment and regret can be, how lonely we are all in the end.But what was more horrifying was the truth behind those words.
Life is sad, everything beautiful is ephemeral, nothing lasts even though we believe we are eternal.
Han pasado varios días desde que lo terminé y aún no encuentro las palabras para describir esta novela.Es fascinante.
Rara como un perro verde, pero un ejercicio de estilo que si te atrapa, no te suelta.
Posiblemente es un libro de extremos (o lo amas o lo odias, no creo que pueda dejar indiferente a nadie), pero tan alejado de lo corriente y tan lírico y tan devoto a su estilo (Woolf tiene muy claro en su cabeza cómo quiere escribir esta historia y lo hace hasta sus últimas consecuencias), que no puedo sino admirarlo.Y sí, es triste y melancólico, ¡pero tan bonito y poético!
This novel is without a doubt a work of art, a masterpiece, one of the best of the 20th century by, quite possibly, the greatest female writer who ever lived. The beauty, the poetry of the written word in this book is beyond description. She must have been so proud when she finished writing this, she had to know it was special. This book has my highest recommendation.
The novel blurs the lines between the individual and the collective experience, acknowledging the importance of others in constructing our sense of self, bringing out our ambitions and setting the very course of our lives.
If we say that we are like this and not like that, or we imagine that certain actions can only be taken by certain kinds of people, then we restrict ourselves to the path of expectation, and it is not until later that we realise that other paths were open to us also.Unlike a lot of experimental writing, the structure of The Waves does not get in the way.
Writing a coherent review is difficult, as the book itself is not coherent, but I'll attempt it anyway: We are presented with nine episodes from the lives of six main characters: Bernhard, Susan, Neville, Jinny, Louis and Rhoda.
There is a time jump in between each episode, so we only get glimpses of the character's lives.In dramatic monologues, supplemented here and there with "said" ("said Susan, said Bernhard") they tell us their immediate sensory experience, interspersed with glimpses of their living situation, and a lot of their inner lives.
Difficult to make a critique of The Waves, it is a text that feels but only in an absolute way.
Not only because of my resonance with the essence of what is delivered there (and the extracts I have piously relieved from it), rather by the wonder of discovering there a form of perfection in literature.
The form is released but to better vibrate and diffuse, with a richness that many current novels, boring and cold by dint of wanting stripped of constraints, have never been able to equal.
It is a dream, but the time of this dream is the essence of life that passes ...
"How then does light return to the world after the eclipse of the sun? Miraculously. Frailly. In thin stripes. It hangs like a glass cage. It is a hoop to be fractured by a tiny jar. There is a spark there. Next moment a flush of dun. Then a vapour as if earth were breathing in and out, once, twice, for the first time. Then under the dullness someone walks with a green light. Then off twists a white wraith. The woods throb blue and green, and gradually the fields drink in red, gold, brown. Sudd
Everything is a metaphor, everything is noted, everything exposed, characters announce their feelings and thoughts outright, which in the case of another writer could have been disastrous but in Woolf's words works perfectly.The six characters are all fantastic archetypes of the human spirit: Louis, the insecure, rational man; Bernard the wannabe Byron, ever trying to force beauty instead of letting it happen; Neville, emotionally distant, who I'm quite sure may be gay; Rhoda the misanthrope, scared as much of everyone as she is the world; Jinny, the uninhibited player; and Susan, who seeks solace in the beauty of calmness and nature.Why is this book about these flawed characters, these grieving men and women who cry for their charismatic, possibly great or possibly asshole-ish friend, but cry even louder for their own passions and desires or fears and pains, called 'The Waves'?
Rampant poetry that you ride, crest in and crest out of the waves of words that flow in such a way that one sentence is one of many, a social construct like the bees and the birds flocking in the sky.
One word does not exist without all the rest, and it is better to float through the sentences rather than tear them down and open into some semblance of meaning.
Reread to your pleasure until the meanings flow through without excessive force on your part, otherwise they'll drip through your fingers as fast as thought.
As Dylan Thomas was to do later (1953 to her 1931), Woolf alternates richly-worded soliloquies by a variety of different characters, sometimes only single lines, sometimes going on for pages.
This is a book that evolves, growing up as people do, gradually discovering their true personalities.This opening reveals an immediate difference from Dylan Thomas, who characterizes his much larger cast with distinct voices, and permits them to interact with one another; Woolf avoids dialogue entirely.
