https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41014420-new-york-dead
The main character in the book, Stone Barrington, is not your typical New York cop.
Stone is on medical leave recovering from a bullet to the knee when a woman, Sasha, falls from a 12-story building in front of him.
Sasha is a prominent news anchor, and the main suspects include her co-anchor and her lesbian lover.
The romantic interest is Cary, a woman who works at the news station where Sasha works.
It felt very much like a book that was written by a man, for men.
Stone definitely thinks like a guy, and some of his thoughts are ones that as a woman, I'd rather not be privy to.
However, what is set up to be a relatively open-and-shut homicide case is quickly muddied by the arrival of a freelance journalist who got footage of her at the scene showing that she was still alive when put in the ambulance, by her diary that shows that she was severely depressed at times, and then by her disappearance - no body, no crime.
Barrington's obsession with finding out the truth in this case, as opposed to just finding someone to stick with the crime, quickly puts him at odds with the rest of the department (with whom he never fit in all that well to begin with) and he soon finds himself railroaded out on a medical disability retirement.
The women in this book are shown as sex objects, greedy for power and money, under a strain weak, crying and suicidal.
The blue force is a corrupt organization that demands absolute loyalty and doesn't care about factual guilt or innocence, but its own public image.
The sensation- and ratings-driven television is again a place where everybody screws everybody for advancement, prime time and money.
There is no real loyalty, friendship and trust, almost everyone is calculating and scheming.Despite its flaws this book is quite an enjoyable read, and you could always hope that the series would improve with the next instalment.
I have been reading Stuart Woods books for a long time.
I especially like the Stone Barrington series but not necessarily in order.
I started Son of Stone and didn't like it at all but I had to finish it when I found that in order to make a later book make sense I had to find out what happened to Arrington.
What I have had a problem with is the dialogue.
"Hello, Dino." "Hello, Stone." But I loved this book.
The dialogue seemed to flow more naturally - mixing it in with the narrative.
I'll keep reading these books, but by far this is the best.
When I thought I had it down on who the killer was and what happened to SN I was wrong!The book is very fast paced from the very beginning when a news reporter falls to what is thought to be her death.
It is soon discovered that she is not dead but alive and still breathing.
Soon the ambulance car and the woman go missing!
Even detective Stone Barrington's love interest has a major secret of her own...
How disgusting!I can't wait to read the second book & see what new case Detective Barrington has to crack!
New York dead by Stuart Woods is the first Stone Barrington novel. The body of Sash Nijinsky, television anchorwoman, falls from the penthouse of a high rise apartment in front of Stone Barrington setting in motion a series of events that change the course of his life. A terrific start to a series, this book sets up nicely the events that lead to Stone Barringtons career as an attorney and investigator. It was full of action and suspense and Stone was always in the middle of it all. I'm looking forward to the next book.
This was my first by Woods. I was really impressed with the quick, easy, and enjoyable reading. Glad I found a new author with an extensive list.

So, I read this book with my father as I'm trying to get him into reading more and I know he likes this author.
Also, I figured I could learn what kinds of books he does like.
Which I get, as my dad says "sets up the next 10 books" but I wanted to enjoy this one, not be set up to enjoy the next ten, because dear stars I will not be reading them.
I also thought the mystery was too easily figured out...I couldn't connect to the characters, because I just didn't like them.
Stone is kind of pretentious and is led around by his dick, while honestly no other characters are even worth mentioning.
Smart detective. Integrity and good looks. New York City. Seems like a recipe for a great series. Pretty good read with some twists but I kept wanting more... since it’s a popular, longtime series, I’m hopeful it gets better. One thing I noticed... even though it was set in early 90s (maybe even late 80s), the lack of technology wasn’t nearly as obvious as it can be in other crime procedurals. That’s a good thing.Barrington isn’t Bosch but I think I’d like to get to know him a little better, just the same.
So I did and read the first in the series.
It was an easy read, with a lot of dialogue and a good story line.
The story revolves around the missing of a up and coming anchorwomen Sasha Nijinsky.
Who is involved?
Why are so many men and women involved in the missing or death of this women?
I guess you must read to find out.
The story moves along well, with many characters and a few twist especially about three quarters through and in the end.
The Barrington series starts off pretty solid.
In this book, Stone was still a police detective and hadn't adopted the smug wealthy lifestyle which becomes the consummate profile of later Stone books.
He actually experienced a brief look at financial disaster, and entered the book wearing ordinary clothing.
His adoption of expensive clothing and absorbing the finer lifestyle was fine for this novel since it exhibited character development in reaction to other characters and plot movement.
The character development of Stone in later books has all but ceased, along with strong suspense plots.Cary Hilliard was a landmark character for Stone's reference.The book fits the formulated 300 page size of nearly all Stuart Woods books.
I don’t have a great first impression of Stone Barrington, based on this first book in the series.
Casual sex seems to be Stone’s modus operandi, but when I thought the “love-interest” was out of the picture, I started to like Stone a little better; but wait, here she comes again - and hey, maybe he might consider marrying her after a month or two!
The “mystery” seemed silly, and the one thing I was thankful for was that the author at least had the sense to put an end to the ridiculous puppy love for Stone, as he didn’t seem capable of it himself.
What a Piece of Shit! From the name of the protagonist to his character description.... this book REALLY sucks! I tried to be fair and give it a shot, but I can not and will not waste another minute of my life reading this crap. I am amazed so many people like this book. If anyone would care to explain how they can read it all the way through and enjoy it, I would appreciate it.
If the rest of the series is like New York Dead, I'm very happy to have been turned on to Stuart Woods. The last 6 chapters held me, and I couldn't put it down, even though we were late meeting friends for dinner.
I read a few of the later Stone Barrington novels and found the writing to be good, but the story lines somewhat bland and over the top.
I though it was worth finding out if the first novels were better and read this first effort.
Are the early novels better?
We meet Stone's partner Dino, who appears in later books.The level of mystery, danger and tension is far more interesting than the later "Lifestyles of the Rich and Famous" novels.
If there is a complaint, it is that too many pivotal events in Stone's life are packed into this book.
When I started this series I didn't know that it was part of a series so I jumped around but today I thought it would be a good idea to start this series from the beginning and because my son keeps telling me that this was a really good crime and I needed to start the Stone Barrington series right from the beginning.
Well just like the others I love Stone but now I know why he became a lawyer instead of staying a cop but also how his mind works.
Now I can continue in the right order and have some fun with Stone and his crimes because even though he's a lawyer doesn't mean that it stops him from being the good cop.
I’m not sure what I thought of this book 🤔The actual detective part of it wasn’t bad ...but...there has to be a but...When you get...and I quote ‘Later, when they fell asleep, exhausted, it was with his soft penis in her hand, he liked sleeping that way,’ unquote  😳😳...just 😳😳😳....that has to be the most vomit inducing turgid drivel I have ever read. How on earth did the author or his proof readers allow such complete bullshit get into a book.I’m still shuddering 😳
One of the rare books I just couldn't get through. Main plot was fairly good but the sexist, ignorant detectives language was horribly off-putting. And the sex scenes were poorly written. Maybe it was a book of its time but it's not a time (or culture, really) I long for.
Everyone is always telling Stone Barrington that he's too smart to be a cop, but it's pure luck that places him on the streets in the dead of night, just in time to witness the horrifying incident that turns his life inside out.
Suddenly he's on the front page of every New York newspaper, and his life is hopelessly entwined in the increasingly shocking life (and perhaps death) of Sasha Nijinsky, the country's hottest and most beautiful television anchorwoman.
I think with a different vocal actor this would have been a better offering but this one did rate 3 stars.Mr Woods isn't quite like Patterson or Baldacci...
I was drawn in immediately to this novel and enjoyed the characters. I will follow Stone in his journey with #2.
So why is it that this is a five star review where so many other detective books fall below the mark?The answer is simple.
One of the key gripes I have about this genre is the lack of change from one book to the next.
That change being said, this is still a detective novel and as anyone with experience in the genre will tell you, it's very hard not to be predictable.
Every time I thought I had him pegged as to where he would go he went in another direction and this led to a lot of the change I liked so much in the novel.
April 2017 This book should be mandatory reading for devotees of Woods and Barrington.
Although not a "rags to riches" tale, It is certainly a tale from negative cash flow to billionaire or near that status.
Still 5 stars!5-9-2015 Amazingly, I haven't read this book and it is this book that has so much of the Stone back story that runs throughout the 50+ other books.
This is because of the retarding force known as air resistance.
Air resistance exists because air molecules collide into a falling body creating an upward force opposite gravity."Of course, it might not stop you enough to not die from a 12 story fall.
Book one of the Stone Barrington Series; I thought it was an excellent start to a series.
Stone starts out as a detective on the NY police force with a Law Degree.
Cops are definitely on display as fallible, they sometimes make wrong choices due to political pressures which at times is in conflict with what's morally right.
Doesn’t have the intensity of thriller though it does have its moments, this book is definitely a mystery with fallible characters and looks to be a promising premise and cast.
I plan to continue the series; it was definitely worth the read.
Solid mystery.
It was an easy read with nice short chapters.
Easier to handle just one more chapter before falling asleep.This is Stone Barrington's first appearance in a series written by Stuart Woods.
He gets caught up in a mystery involving a celebrity news anchor when he sees her plunge from the roof.Nothing is as it seems.
While Barrington is trying to find out who was in her flat with her at the top of the building, she is picked up by an ambulance.
People die, and she is missing.The twists continue and will certainly surprise you all the way to the end.
I often read mention of the events in later books, but it was nice to finally read the whole story and I can see that Stone has not changed his habits in later books.
When Stone was walking home when off duty he witnesses the fall from a high balcony of prominent news woman.
Stone, a blue blood in a workingman's profession and often at odds with his blue collar fellow officers , is draws the lead detective job in the case.
With pressure from above and few clues he is at odds with the higher ups which eventually leads to his going from cop to lawyer.
Everyone tells Detective Second Class Stone Barrington that he’s not a good match with the New York Police Department.
He’s too smart to be a cop and his background from old money is resented by other members on the force.
But even with his law school background he thinks that being a detective is one thing he does well.
As it turns out he’s right---being a detective is something he’s really good at and he gets to the bottom of the crimes even though it costs him his job and almost his life in a convoluted but well executed crime story.
Nothing else about the book made me want to continue.
The characters were extremely shallow.
This includes the main character.
There is very little to admire about any of the characters.
There is nothing here to learn in this book.
Police procedure was inconsistent and unbelievable.
Though it takes place in NYC, you will learn nothing about NYC.
Though there are scenes in TV production studios and hospitals, you will learn nothing about how they work.
Very shallow and unbelievable.
Unless I see evidence that the author can do better, I will not be reading any more of his books.
Had heard about the Stone Barrington books, but, hadn't read on.
Got the Books on CD version of this one and really enjoyed it.
I didn't know that it starts out with him as a cop.
But, it's a good find and I'll read more of them.
Already have one more on Books on CD ready to go, Worst Fears Realized.
Sadly, my library doesn't have them all on CD, but, they do have several.
This one sounds like it will do nicely.The characters are all believable and well fleshed out.
All in all, a good, well written book.
Even liked the narrator.
An average murder mystery, not the best I've read, but not the worst either. I liked the setting of New York City and Stone being a NYC cop. The plot was entertaining, but at times unbelievable. The mystery was really good, and I liked how there was a different element, where the cops didn't know if the victim was alive or dead. A decent read that would work well as a mystery beach read or as a mindless read.
