https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18081809-landline
I've loved all Rainbow Rowell's other books, but this one just didn't do it for me.
The premise was ridiculous and I hated pretty much every character except Heather.
Especially Neal, GOD I hated Neal, what an awful, miserable person.
I'm really confused as to how he's supposed to be an appealing character since he's not even described with any redeeming qualities really - a short, fat guy who never laughs, smiles or expresses his feelings in any way, apart from just silently projecting misery and resentment at his wife without ever actually bringing up the fact that anything is wrong.
Updated September 6, 2014: Ugh, trying to write about each successive Rainbow Rowell novel gets more and more difficult.
But there's just something about the way Rainbow Rowell writes about emotions that makes me instantly think YES I RECOGNIZE THAT.
It's like her books are the story versions of falling in love or making an instant connection with a person.
WHY IS SHE SO GOOD AT WRITING BOOKS I LOVE.
Full review later.June 2013: This doesn't sound like something I would necessarily pick up on my own, but I will read anything Rainbow Rowell writes, regardless of topic or genre.
As always, I like the author's narrative voice, but as a character sketch of a marriage, this wasn't quite sharp enough or funny enough or emotional enough for my taste.
I also find Georgie's profession rather jarring, in that it was rather unrealistically portrayed in both the details and in Georgie's character.
Had I never read Liane Moriarty, who writes excellent books that humorously dissect marriages and relationships, and had I never worked in entertainment, I might've liked this one better.Oh!
And the only thing more tedious than being forced into phone conversations with young kids you don't have a relationship with is having to read about them.
Georgie & Neal's relationship never fails to get my all up in my feels (both Emotionally™ and CHRISTMAS...LY).
I just read this book for the first time while in a serious relationship and I have to say: I love it more than ever before.
The dynamic between Georgie and Neal feels even more real to me now that I have more ~experience~ and I just love this book so damn much and for some reason I'm crying?????????
Like da fuck I've never cried reading this book before excuse me while I'm all up in my feels D;Re-read 12/8/15: Still loved this so, so much.
Since this book hasn't been released yet (MWAHAHA I READ IT BEFORE EVERYONE!) I'm not going to say too much here, but I will be mentioning it on my channel closer to the release date.
For now, here is a little blurb of my thoughts:This was a really different read, and I realized when finishing it that a big part of that is because it is NOT Young Adult.
The characters were complex and unique and real, and their relationships where layered and difficult and full of history.
"You don't know when you're twenty-three.You don't know what it really means to crawl into someone else's life and stay there. You can't see all the ways you're going to get tangled, how you're going to bond skin to skin. How the idea of separating will feel in five years, in ten -- in fifteen...She didn't know it at twenty-three."  This book guys. THIS BOOK. I finished this book in a handful amount of hours in  one sitting.  Now I know why everybody seems to praise Rainbow Rowell so much. She
I honestly wonder how in the world the ratings for Landline aren't much higher!I always wondered what I would do when put in a similar situation as Georgie where I had to choose between my career or my family.
Every book, every movie, or every show that models the same predicament debating which is of more importance (career or family), always seems to propose an either-or solution.
But then again, if Georgie and Neal thought of a compromising solution at that time, this book wouldn't have came into existence so I won't complain much further.
It was sooooo 'fair' that when I saw that my overdrive library had it available, too, - I thought it might be better as an audio -- afterall - the name of the book is called "Landline".Well- reading it - or listening to it - I enjoyed this conversation ( the story), for about as long as I do many phone conversations: Enjoyable for awhile - nice connecting with my friends - even up to two hours is 'great'....
Even if .....'if'.......( and that won't be me ), a reader gave it 5 stars -- did they really believe this was the best fiction of the year?
even though her books tend to be a hit or near miss for me, i think its very neat how, across four books, she has managed to effortlessly capture what it means to live during four different stages of life - high school, college, working/dating young adult, and working/married adult.
so whilst her writing was really refreshing to read again, i think the story fell a little short with its protagonist.
also, there were quite a few loose ends towards the end of this which is a little of of character for rowells books.overall, i did think this had a good message.
or Fate, Time, Television and True LoveThe funny thing with  Landline  is that I didn’t even fully mean to reread it, I just started the first few pages and then bang I was flying through it in true Rainbow Rowell fashion (see: Why I Fangirl over Rainbow Rowell’s Fangirl (Spoilers: Levi)). I felt like I was at an all-you-can-eat buffet, filling myself with one more page, one more... SourceAs far as time machines go, a magic telephone is pretty useless.TV writer Georgie McCool can’t actually vis
. Does Georgie want to start over?A heart-wrenching—and hilarious—take on fate, time, television and true love, Landline asks if two people are ever really on the same path, or whether love just means finding someone who will keep meeting you halfway.Also funny is the fact when I first read 
I save things I don’t want to lose track of.”This right here hits the core on why I write such extensive notes during my reading.• Georgie's office scenes with Seth (and Scotty) reminded me then why I had such a hard reading this book the first time.
IMPORTANT NOTE: if you don't want to be spoiled for the TV show lost, hold off on reading this book until you are done watching it. ~*~PSA OVER~*~I really enjoyed this book a lot. It may be more of a 4.5...I'll have to sit on it. It's heartbreaking and wonderful and full of feels, but still not my favorite Rowell book I don't think. Pretty great nonetheless!
Not quite three stars but almost there.^^  Oh wow! I never thought I’d say this of a Rainbow Rowell novel but my reading experience with this one bordered between a little “meh” and sort of “like”. It’s interesting because it’s a story about an old yellow landline that magically lets 2013 Georgie talk to her husband, Neal, in his 1998 version. It’s a little “meh” because after more than 310 pages, nothing big really happened.  Georgie and Neal’s marriage is at the brink of falling off the cliff
It’s interesting because it’s a story about an old yellow landline that magically lets 2013 Georgie talk to her husband, Neal, in his 1998 version.
Georgie clearly knows the cause but she still lets Neal and her two wonderful little girls go off to Omaha for their supposedly family Christmas break without her because of her job.
It’s appealing because the author has this inherent writing ability to make any story easy to read but a little disappointing because for a story that is supposed to be magical, there wasn’t any real spark about the characters and their relationships.
Landline = Lame. Seriously, this won goodreads best fiction book in 2014? I beg to differ. This was predictable and boring. A landline to the past Georgie uses to contact her current husband who has decided to spend Christmas with his 2 daughters at his family's home in Omaha. Why? Because Georgie is a comedy writer and has to work on a show. I don't get the hype around this one - wasn't worth the read and I'm glad I didn't purchase it.
Accidental damage protection.”3.5/5 starsAfter reading Fangirl, Rainbow Rowell had a safe and warm place in my booklover's heart.
Big plus Mrs. Rowell, very big plus!It was easy and nice reading Landline, but the plot was weak, to be frank.
I wondered where this was going, and it wasn't going anywhere really.But I believe Rainbow Rowell tries to tell you something important.
To let people love whoever they want to love.I always have a hard time rating Rowell's books.
Which is why keep rounding the rating up to 4 stars.In a nutshell: I liked Landline.
You are such a geek, Mrs. Rowell!Find more of my books on Instagram
Everything about this was exactly perfect.... I can't wait to own a copy. Full review to come soon
3.5*I really enjoyed this! Georgie was a bit of a frustrating character at times but overall it was a really cute read! Video review to come!
Meow! Ah, Rainbow Rowell, you have stolen my heart yet again. Another beautiful, heartfelt, emotionally rewarding, and insanely hilarious novel from start to finish. This book made me smile. Rowell's novels are like comfort food. They always make you feel warm and happy inside. Georgie McCool, you're one crazy nut, and Neal, you're the coolest little hobbit I ever did know. lol I enjoyed reading about Georgie and Neal's backstory as a couple. Rowell's various characters are relatable, quirky, sincere, and always a joy to read. Enjoy, fellow goodreaders! P.S. Now where can I get myself a magic telephone??? lol
It has a bit of a fairy-tale quality to it, so have to go into it with an open mind, but it's a wonderfully romantic journey that makes you stop and remember why you chose this life for yourself in the first place.
I definitely don't agree with every decision Georgie did - she can be selfish, especially when it comes to her relationship with Seth, but Rowell does make us understand why it's hard for her to let go.
4.5 starsLove love loved it! I would've given it 5, but it ended too soon!!
I need this book now. Everything Rowell touches turns to gold. Love all her books. How can you not? Lincoln, Park and Levi. Need I say more??!
Ele toca num dos medos que sempre tive e que no momento em q estou vivendo agora, isso é ainda mais evidente.
Só que depois de anos num relacionamento estável, morando juntos, chegando perto dos 30, vem aquelas questões: casamento?
E esse livro trata muito dessas mudanças e desses medos.
Do medo de se perder ao construir uma família, se acomodar, esquecer dos sonhos, ou focar tanto neles que vc abandona o resto.
Enfim, gostei demais, mas acredito que são dramas mais adultos (ou malucos no meu caso) talvez e nem todo mundo vai se identificar.
“Fitting together is something you work at. It’s something you make happen—because you love each other.  There are reasons that this book resonates with me. It hits home on so many of my own fears and hopes and dreams. Not so much the magic telephone part of it because I came from a time when rotary phones weren’t just a novelty item but the I’ve been with the same person for so long that sometimes I forget we are two individual people instead of just one entity. You don't know what it really
Every character that she incorporated into her story seemed to belong there and have a solid place in Georgie’s life.Besides Neal who was almost a saint like husband to Georgie, some of my favorite characters were her family.
I Loved the writing even if I only liked the story.I always want a little more at the end of RR books but that is kind of her signature leave off point.
I almost thought that the same thing could have been done with love letters she found in the attic or maybe reading through some of her old college works from The Spoon and remembering her time there.
I sort of fell in love with this one.When it comes to audiobooks, it is nearly impossible to sort out what is good simply because the writing was good and what was good because the narrator was good.
This is the second audiobook that I've listened to from Rainbow Rowell, the first being Attachments, and both narrators were amazing.
Though this book is dealing with a fairly serious topic, it is also, at the same time, really light.
The ending was a touch anticlimactic, but still pretty epic in a romantic holiday movie kind of way.
Like the author came up with a great idea for a book but wasn't able to write down a story up to the standards of that idea.That's what I feel that happened with 'Landline'.
The way Rowell spun her story around this idea was not so.A thirty seven year-old woman named Georgie McCool chooses her work as a sitcom writer (or whatever Georgie does for a living) over spending Christmas in Omaha with her husband Neal and their two daughters Alice and Noomi (whose real name is actually Naomi).
Adorei que eles obviamente não era perfeitos um para o outro (afinal tinha o Seth para exemplificar que teria um outro par "melhor" para ela), mas que quando nos apaixonamos por alguém e sentimos o potencial de uma vida juntos, o esforço para que dê certo é meramente uma consequência natural desse amor que brota.Vale a pena mencionar a aproximação da Georgie e da sua irmã Heather durante o livro.
Sim, ela tinha mais culpa no cartório que ele, mas se tivesse falado antes a sua insatisfação com a dedicação eterna dela ao trabalho, talvez as coisas não tivessem chegado ao ponto que chegaram.Eu consumi esse livro em menos de três dias.
Meu Deus do céu.
A única opinião que consigo formar.Esse livro foi incrível e apaixonante do começo ao fim.
Me senti preso desde a primeira página, me apeguei aos personagens com uma velocidade surpreendente e meu coração simplesmente se entregou à leitura.
Me vi muito na protagonista, e isso foi bacana...
me fez pegar uma empatia muito forte por ela.
É bem possível que Georgie tenha se tornado uma das minhas personagens favoritas.
Sério, apesar de ter ouvido todos os tipos de comentários, esse livro me surpreendeu.Não tenho muito o que dizer além de que estou morrendo de amores.
The storyline is interesting.....Dad plays Mr. Mom with two cute kids and breadwinner Mom chooses work over family during the holidays that puts further strain on the marriage (no spoiler here).......but the dialogue (on and off the magic time-traveling phone) was just a bit too contrived, and at times, even pointless and corny.....but hey, do not listen to me.
This novel won the 2014 GR Best Fiction Award after all and by more than 14,000 votes over second place!
I'm sorry to say though, it just didn't quite gel for me.
But is it worth it?While separated from her husband and children, Georgie contemplates her marriage and how she and Neal went from deeply in love to a shockingly tense relationship.
Alas, Target does not sell it.On the surface, Landline would appear to be a romance novel with science fictional elements added thanks to the magical phone, but it’s really way more than that, but also none of that at the same time.
At the time she marries Neal, she’s in her early 20s and feels like everything will work out because she has this deep love for her husband and he for her.
I loved this book! I really loved it so much - the characters were all so real and so likable despite their flaws, and I felt every emotion in the book so fully. It made me laugh, it made me worry, and it really made me take a good long look at my own life/relationship to make sure I'm working as hard as I can from each and every point onward. It left me feeling so happy and hopeful and I really couldn't put it down the whole time I was reading it. Highly recommended.
3.5 starsAs always, Rainbow created another great, realistic cast of characters. But this plot I felt was a little bit dry and in the end, it was anticlimactic and there were several loose ends. My least favorite by Rowell, as expected.
People do speak to each other this way, and it's refreshing to read a story where I'm not rolling my eyes every other page and thinking, "Who says shit like that out loud?!"I'll also admit that the main reason I wasn't that enthused about this book was because the premise made me think there wasn't going to be any of the thrills of a budding new relationship.
The amazing thing about Rowell's characterization is that Neal managed to make me swoon even though he's not the kind of guy I could ever find myself falling for.
