https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/439173.Frindle
Although the obvious theme of the importance of language was there but, the one thing that stood out to me as I finished this book, was the beauty and intricacy of the relationship between a teacher and a student.
I had come from South Korea where respect was foremost in learning, but this book challenged this idea and gave so many reasons as to why the act of challenging authority does not always point to disobedience, but rather, allows the potential for a student to flourish to strive to prove a teacher wrong, in a meaningful way.
When I saw this book on the course list, I recognized the cover and figured my brother must have read it when we were kids, but I knew I never had.
If I tried this book, I probably wouldn't have liked it just because reading wasn't really my thing yet so I'm so happy I read it now when I love and appreciate words.
I just love how this book shows kids all the power that words have.
Buy it for all the kids in your life, but you should read it, too, because it will warm your heart like no other.
"When I saw the book Frindle, I said, "I'm not reading this." But I did anyway.
The stuff I really liked was that the main character was a kid named Nick and I really like this part: Nick was watching a show and a bird would peep really loud when something bad would happen.
I think you should read this book.
Nick is like my friend David.
Also I think Nick is smart like my friend Charly.
So I am saying that Nick is like all of my friends.
Can you be like Nick?
He ends up creating a new word for "pen" - "frindle" and gaining national attention.
The plot here is similar to "Nothing but the Truth," a young adult novel by AVI, about a boy who similarly wants to annoy his teacher, by singing along to the national anthem when it is played over the PA system.
"Frindle" is much more upbeat and fun, and it ends on a happy note, while "Nothing but the Truth," is more tension filled and the ending is not really "happy." This could be do to the intended target age for these books - the happier, simpler "Frindle" was written for younger readers, with a positive message about potential and creativity.
Basically, Nick is a very popular kid, who wants to have fun while learning at school.The other protagonist of the story is:Mrs. Granger,the stern Language teacher who handles the entire fifth-grade single-handedly.Basically, Mrs. Granger with her no-nonsense attitude is too smart to fall for tricksters like Nick.And the main protagonist of the book, the one that gives the book its title is:FrindleBasically, a frindle is just..
I can't even imagine how much kids would enjoy it!Also, Mrs. Granger looks like a spitting image of the incredible English Language teacher I had in Second standard!The book portrays the student-teacher relationship so beautifully, that towards the end I just could not wipe that smile off my face, and it left me feeling all warm and fuzzy inside!
I thought it was pretty good, until the very end, which was fantastic and I couldn't help but shed a tear or five.
Mimi said, "oh there goes Mommy crying again..." I can't help it!
For me it wavered between a 3 and 4 for 90% of the story, and finished with a big five star ending.
But the kids were loving it from start to finish, and it is they who are the target audience, so we have agreed on a five star rating.
And like Mimi says, any book that makes Mommy break down in tears probably deserves 5 stars.
This book is incredibly clever. No matter how old a reader is, they will enjoy this.Check out my BookTube video on "Frindle":https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=obdva...
But I don't think I'm wrong in saying that Frindle is the most popular of all these titles, strong as they may be (and I say this as someone who loves both The Thief and A View from Saturday, and who credits The Moorchild with her love of fey and changeling stories).Frindle is real - and warm - and funny - and wise.
I love rereading books and finding out how well they hold up, and I love it more when I can simultaneously appreciate them as an adult and remember how important they were to me as a kid.

A curious fifth grader named Nick Allen loves to waste time in class.
While asking a question to waste time in class, he realized that the only reason that words mean what they mean is because we say they do.
Before Nick knows it, the whole community is consumed in his idea, and it then proceeds to change his town, his country, and his life.I thought that this book was a fun read.
It had nice character development, because the author told a lot of back story about the main character, Nick.I really liked how the author showed the change in the character Mrs. Granger, and it was very effective.
I had forgotten what a cute little book this was.
Nick Allen is a prankster who has the art of sidetracking teachers down to a science.
However, Mrs. Granger, his fifth grade English teacher, isn't so easy to manipulate.
The first time he tries to get her to forget to give out homework, she assigns him extra homework.
Thus starts the battle of the frindle.I loved both Nick and Mrs. Granger.
Their battle over the word "frindle" that Nick made up to replace the word "pen" shows how adaptable the English language is and brings a new appreciation for the good old dictionary.
nick was the kind of kid i wanted to be (note: i say this in the past tense)my 9-year-old self would have proclaimed him, in lesser words, the chillest smartass with nerf guns to ever exist.
x-ray vision was casually mentioned at least thrice.nick manages to infuse chaos with the concept of frindle, and it becomes a world-wide revolution.
i still don’t know how i managed to make any friends that year.however, i did end up antagonizing my English teacher, who was the dearest 60-year-old thing in the world (quite the badass, though- she became a certified scuba diver that year and had travelled to 5 continents.
On the surface, Frindle is a cute children's book about a creative kid who makes up a new word right out of the blue, and causes quite a stir in school and in his community by getting a lot of other kids to use it--and provoking opposition from his teacher Mrs. Granger, who stands by the letter of the law of the dictionary.
I do not mean to suggest that there is no value in creative experimentation or that there is never a reason to reinvent terms, but this little book treads on that ground carelessly, without suggesting that we carry our historical understandings of ourselves--practically our lives--in our hands when we do this.Still, Frindle is entertaining and could be used to spark interesting discussion with middle school readers.
This was a really stellar story, one that encourages children to ask questions about their world.
Don't just accept whatever it is that adults tell them.
Our protagonist Nick does just that when an innocent prank hatched to tick off his teacher eventually evolves into a school wide campaign to create a brand new word.
The story sounds sort of simplistic, but Frindle is an effective, entertaining study of authority and power as it exists in a school and within our society.
Clements is not interested in turning Nick's teacher into a traditional villain, and I appreciated that.
hiiiiiiiiii!!!!!!My book is called FRINDLE!!!!!!!!!!Have you read it?its a really good book.HAHA. good book good reads!
My first introduction to the writing of Andrew Clements was Things Not Seen, which I highly recommend.
Reading Frindle, I couldn't help but remember my own language project to eliminate the descriptor "Handicapped" (otherwise known as "the H-word") in reference to people with disabilities.
Just like Nick, when my letter to the editor was published in our local newspaper, it got responses such as: "show more respect for the dictionary", "stop trying to change our language", "there is no valid reason" etc.
I applaud Andrew Clements for showing that we do indeed create our language, that our language changes and IT'S OKAY!
My mom has raved about this book for a while and so I finally read it. It's a children's book that is both a compelling and imaginative story about a child discovering the power of words and the power of one person to make a big difference in the world.
I rate this book 2 stars because it is somewhat funny but mostly boring because it's just about a boy that calls a pen, a frindle.
I read this for a research paper in a linguistics class, determining whether or not the manner in which the word enters the lexicon as it does in Frindle is realistic.
Some excerpts from the aforementioned paper, because hours of work probably deserve to be read by more than one person, plus I'm just haughty or something:"While seemingly nothing more than a children's book on the surface, Andrew Clement's Frindle deals directly with the idea of introducing a new word into the lexicon.
Nick's prank results in the word becoming a widespread phenomenon, eventually taking its place in the dictionary by the end of the book.
At the recommendation of some fellow teachers, I was excited to check this particular book out.
As an adult, I can't fathom why teachers would recommend this book.
I could not see myself encouraging my students to make up stupid, meaningless words.However, there was part of the story I liked and that is the way Nicholas is able to think outside of the box.
As a teacher, I want to be encouraging to my future students and their pursuits to think outside the box and solve problems.
But I will not incorporate this into my classroom and would not recommend this book.
When 4th grader Nick Allen gets bored of plain old word pen he comes up with a new word for it FRINDLE!
The word was already around the country he's only ten what should he do?!
Well nick was now an aficiall word he could not do anything about it but the word was helpfull.This book was really good book but I will only give it three stars because how would a forth grader boy who's teacher isn't excited one bit about him making a word.
My teachers would probrably be excited.I would recomend this book for people who read slow.
It was great i wish I was nick!!
1. This book would fall under the category of a junior book, contemporary realism.2. What is a frindle? It’s a made up word, of course! This book takes you into a fifth grade classroom where Nick dares to take on that teacher – you know, the one who lets nothing get by her. Nick has always had great ideas and a charisma about him that makes his friends follow his lead. He takes the learning from the classroom and applies it to his life. 3. critique  a. The outstanding quality of this book is the
This enables the reader to see things that Nick would not be privy to, but are absolutely necessary to tell the story.
If the narrator was completely omniscient, the reader would know exactly what the letter said and the story would have no plot.
By having limited omniscience, the reader could know what Nick was thinking, what his motivation was, but still know what was going on to other characters in the story.
The most amazing part of this book is the way the main character connects his lessons from the classroom to his everyday life.
Spicuiri din recenzia finala care se gaseste pe blogul meu ..........................................Gândiţi-vă acum că cineva se hotărăşte să inventeze un nou cuvânt. Cam cât de greu îi va fi lui Nick Allen, căci despre el este vorba, să îi facă pe ceilalţi să înţeleagă şi să utilizeze un cuvânt precum… să zicem…„frindel“ şi asta fără a pomeni sinonimul pe care acesta vrea să îl înlocuiască! Gândiţi-vă cât de dezorientaţi vor fi colegii săi sau vânzătorii de la prăvălie când el va indica spre u
Cam cât de greu îi va fi lui Nick Allen, căci despre el este vorba, să îi facă pe ceilalţi să înţeleagă şi să utilizeze un cuvânt precum… să zicem…„frindel“ şi asta fără a pomeni sinonimul pe care acesta vrea să îl înlocuiască!
Iar dacă cineva din vechime a putut face asta, de ce nu ar putea oricine să o facă, mai ales dacă are la îndemână un cuvânt atât de bun precum „frindel“.
Still a wonderful read!
4.25 stars.I was not expecting to enjoy this as much as I did. In fact, I wish this was the book I did a unit on for my college Children's Lit class. It was simple, fun, and heart-warming. I'll definitely be looking at reading more of Clements books in the future.
O carte plină de umor şi idei inteligente.Încercând să tragă de timp în timpul orei de engleză, pentru a scăpa de temă, Nicholas se alege cu o temă care îi va schimba viața. Fără să realizeze, el schimbă o lecție plictisitoare despre cuvinte într-o lecție de neuitat.Cu siguranță se va afla pe lista cu lecturi obligatorii a elevilor din clasa a III-a.
Ed. class.
I loved the book so much after reading it, that I read it as a teacher-read-aloud, then a whole class read my first few years of teaching 4th grade.
Every student was given their own copy of Frindle with a reading challenge of reading one chapter a night.
Younger students could have someone read the chapter out loud to them at home.
I just finished reading Frindle again and I forgot how much I love this book.
It is an extremely quick read with such a powerful message.
If you haven’t read Frindle yet, definitely add it to your “to read” list.
My third grader told me to read this one. Awesome story about responsibility, ingenuity, imperfection and the power of words.
How did I not read this until I was well into my 30s??? Fantastic. I got teary at the end and I'm not even a teacher.
