https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/400354.Men_at_Arms
A really good pair of leather boots cost fifty dollars.
A man who could afford fifty dollars had a pair of boots that'd still be keeping his feet dry in ten years' time, while the poor man who could only afford cheap boots would have spent a hundred dollars on boots in the same time and would still have wet feet.This was the Captain Samuel Vimes 'Boots' theory of socioeconomic unfairness.” Things like this aren't the only reason I love Terry Pratchett, but they're one of the main reasons.
What's more, it's obvious to me reading now that Pratchett has multi-book plans for the central characters: Carrot, Vimes, and Angua.
Detrius also has a pretty strong secondary arc in this one, and we see the begining of some of Pratchett's Troll Vs. Dwarf discussions that come to beautiful fruition in Thud.Carrot still a focal character here, and he's interesting, charming, all that.
He's the Batman to Carrot's Superman.Given that comparison, it's not surprising that Vimes keeps our attention more.
And this book has so much more than most.
And this book has so much more than most.
I could find funny books (Snicket) and I could find books with good worldbuilding (Pullman) and I could find books with clever pacing and plotting (Rowling).What I couldn’t find was a series that had both amusing text AND engaging characters.
Yet, they became irresistible.Good tension in books is based, in my opinion, on making the reader care about the characters.
And, Terry is obviously a very good craftsman, with excellent pacing beyond his character drama.So, anyway, it’s a fine book.
If you, like me, have been living in a hole and ignoring Pratchett, then this is a good one with which to start.
In Ankh-Morpork, a multi-cultural, pluralistic, metropolitan city if ever there was one, humans live together with trolls, dwarfs and any number of other kinds of folk and Pratchett waxes poetic about the strengths of diversity but at the barstool rather than the pulpit.We also get to know The Patrician better and really a winning element of this book is Pratchett’s mature and qualitative characterization.
I had forgotten that THIS was that novel.Vimes was great, but who really stole the show was Carrot.
I'll love Vimes a lot more in the future, but for now, Carrot is KING.Or not.
That's a matter of perception and some small debate, all of which Carrot himself will probably have the right precedent and moral outlook and word to set right.Other than that, this novel deals with racial prejudice in a big way.
I don't think there's any part of the novel I disliked.
Wolves and dogs and romance and bringing back the old monarchy kinda reverberated with a previous novel, of course, but I didn't mind.
This was a reread - the last time I read it was so long ago I don't remember:) Such a good book!
This man only wrote good books and he is much missed.
Men at Arms has to be a hit with me because it contains so many of my favourite characters.
There is Corporal Carrot who was adopted as a child by dwarves but is probably the disinherited King of Ankh-Morpork.
And then of course there is Death, one of Pratchett's greatest ever characters.
I love it and could easily read the whole series again.
In fact I probably will!!!
For a career copper, you can imagine what that prospect means.Moreover, the Night Watch has increased its ranks slightly thanks to the Patrician's inclusion initiative so we have Detritus the troll, Cuddy the dwarf and Angua who is a human female (most of the time) reinforcing Sgts.
Colon, Nobby and Carrot.When there is a string of murders, the Patrician explicitly forbids Vimes from investigating, starting some awesome police work, wonderful etymological history lessons and character studies as dark as a moonless night (please don't argue that moonless nights aren't all that dark thanks to the stars, Captain Vimes already had that discussion).
Vimes smiled.
Someone was trying to kill him, and that made him feel more alive than he had done in days.And they were also slightly less intelligent than he was.
This is a quality you should always pray for in your would-be murderer.Murders are rare in Ankh-Morpork.
Suicides and assassinations...well, they're a dime a dozen, but genuine murders are pretty darned rare.
But DEATH has been busier than usual lately, and it's up to Carrot and Vimes of the Night Watch to figure out what the heck is going on.This is a most excellent entry in the Discworld series.
Oook!
Oook!Did I enjoy this book?Does a dragon explode in the woods?
I'll keep this short.
If I had to describe what I think about this story in one sentence it would be as if I need more reasons to love the Watch.
At least, I enjoyed finding out that particular thing in the book itself.I loved it.I rarely listen to audiobooks, but Men at Arms has an excellent narrator (Nigel Planer, but I checked the other one too and he too is pretty good).
Everyone has a distinct voice - from trolls to werewolves.As if I needed another reason to love the Watch.
The Discworld books sometimes have series within the overall series that follow a group of characters.
This book is the 2nd in what I call the "Guards" series, following the Night Watch of Ankh-Morpork which is led by Sam Vimes.
Affirmative action of a sort has come to the Watch, and the new hires include trolls, dwarves, and werewolves, among others.
Sam Vimes is planning on retiring from the Watch after his upcoming wedding, and a series of mysterious murders is occuring with an apparently new type of weapon, which fires metal pellets through the air.
The characters in this novel were superb, the plot and its ending was wholesome but not idealistic, and the narration was hilarious. I'm not sentimental about the series yet, but I bet I'll get there eventually. Man, Pratchett is something else. I can't think of an author I've read last that was able to comment on society, provide fleshed-out characters and a good plot, and present it all neatly with great humor. Maybe I just haven't been reading enough?
The Night Watch has new recruits, a troll, a dwarf (even though Carrot is one too :)), and a very pretty young woman, Constable Angua (who happens to have another special qualification), all part of an affirmative action plan, initiated by the Patrician.
From the Discworld books I’ve read so far (not so many as yet), Guards Guards was among my favourites, and this one I enjoyed even more so.
As far as Vimes went, I felt the Patrician’s plan ended up backfiring a little.
8.5/10I'm going to say that to date this is the best Discworld novel I've read.
The layers to this novel were quite something, on the surface this is a murder plot but underneath it is littered with politics, racism, the influence a gun/gonne has over a person when in their possession, and the techniques of profiling suspects by the Police/Watch.
It's a Discworld novel so it flows really well and the style of writing is whimsical often littered with jokes and humorous interactions.
“The Librarian considered matters for a while.
So…a dwarf and a troll.
He preferred both species to humans.
For one thing, neither of them were great readers.
The Librarian was, of course, very much in favor of reading in general, but readers in particular got on his nerves.
There was something, well, sacrilegious about the way they kept taking books off the shelves and wearing out the words by reading them.
He liked people who loved and respected books, and the best way to do that, in the Librarian’s opinion, was to leave them on the shelves where Nature intended them to be.”
2013 July 4Pratchett can write a novel about integration and politics and gun control that keeps one amused and engrossed and thoroughly engaged the whole time.
And although are both compelling stories, I don't suggest you read his books to find out what happens.
Without being at all precious or lyrical, the important thing about a Pratchett book is that you are being told a story.
In the way that some actors could bring drama to the a reading of the phone book, Pratchett brings humor and insight to everything he writes, probably including his grocery lists.
The second City Watch story in the Discworld series sees an influx of new recruits to the Night Watch, which includes Cuddy (a dwarf), Detritus (a troll) Trolls and Angua (a women) as part of a diversity drive.The problem is on Discworld is that trolls and dwarfs don’t tend to get along...Pratchett’s clever multilayered story tackles racism in Ankh-Morpork, whilst giving the reader a murder mystery as a spate of dead bodies start appearing across the city.The interaction between all the characters drive the story along and theirs plenty of surprises along the way!
I liked this one better than the first book, Guards!
I like Carrot quite a bit, and we see a lot of him in this book.
So far he’s been a pretty morose character, quick to sink into despair and self-pity.
He cares, I’ll give him that, but I prefer reading about characters like Carrot who care more effectively and less self-destructively.
Carrot is a bit too perfect, actually, but I don’t mind because he’s fun to read about.
Most of the Discworld characters are pretty over-the-top anyway, in one way or another, so he fits right in.
Dar sokaklarda ve tekinsiz mahallelerdeki bitmek bilmeyen kovalamacalar, hakiki kimliğini bir türlü ele vermeyen cani katiller, görevinden uzaklaştırılmaya bir adım kalmış şekilde yaşayan asi polis memurları, çaylak ama yürekli ve hevesli gece bekçileri… Tüm bunlar, polisiye edebiyatın ve sinemanın olmazsa olmaz unsurları.
Ve Diskdünya’nın belki de ilk seri katili, hem de elinde tüfenkle, sokaklarda fink atıyor.Basitçe böyle bir konusu var Asayiş Berkemal’in.
Diğer Diskdünya romanlarına oranla daha karanlık ve depresif olan kitap, aynı zamanda bir Diskdünya romanının sahip olabileceği en büyük ciddiyete de sahip.
Ama ebette bunlar onun aslen bir mizah ve parodi romanı olduğunu unutturacak değil.
Kad Pračet dobije četvorku, to ne znači ništa drugo do da sam ja baksuz. I da me nervira Kerot. Elem, Pračet je mudar, hrabar i ludo vozi, svesve. I ovaj deo je, pored nepresušnog izvora dovitljivosti (stvarno, kako? kako toliko??), karakteristično pračetovski inteligentna i promišljena meditacija na temu rasizma, nasilja, vlasti i ljudskosti. Jednom rečju (u svetu u kom je fraza reč), roman je nepopravljivo human. Ali premalo Vajmsa. Previše Kerota. A ja baksuz. 4++
The Nightwatch Returns13 February 2014 Terry Pratchett is now taking aim at the detective fiction in his gonne sights in one of the most amusing Discworld books that I have read to date (though that is a bit of an exaggeration, but this book does sit up there with the best of the series). We now return to the antics of the nightwatch and discover that there have been some promotions (though poor Noddy is not among the ones who have been promoted). The Patrician has also decided to embrace the id
The Patrician has also decided to embrace the idea of affirmative action, so he encourages the watch to bring in some new recruits, including Detritus the Troll (who is famous for being the bouncer at the Broken Drum), Cuddy the dwarf, and Angua, though we are not sure if it is because she is a woman (view spoiler)[or a werewolf (hide spoiler)].
However Detritus and Cuddy are forced to put aside their differences and work together (which they end up doing quite successfully because they are no longer a dwarf and a troll but members of the watch).
Barely a year has passed since the last idiot in Ankh-Morpork thought they could unleash an unholy hell to help them overthrow the great tyrant ruler of their city state only to find themselves meeting the grinning face of the feline loving Death of the Disc sooner than anticipated and somebody is at it again, only this time with the help of a 'gonne.' Vimes is off getting married and Carrot is inheriting a watch embracing equal opportunities, including the evolution of Detritus the troll in to series regular and a rather lovely female with whom Carrot would like to go for long walks around the city, plus of course there are assorted Librarians, wonder dogs, clowns, assasins, dwarfs, Nobbys, trolls and gargoyles.
Carrot and a bunch of new recruits set out to solve the mystery and retrieve the weapon before all hell breaks loose.In Men at Arms, Pratchett sets aside the puns (for the most part) to work on world building and fleshing out his characters.
Ankh-Morpork begins to feel like a believable working (as well as it ever does) city.
It was one of the best mysteries I've read this year with enough clues to get me close to solving it but still tricky enough for some surprises.
Uvek imam problem sa knjigama o Noćnoj straži Ank-Morporka, suviše su mi stvarne, kao da se uopšte ne trudi da bude satiričan, nego sipa li sipa politiku i nekorektnost, dok ne poteče i iz gargojlinih ušiju.Najneradije ih čitam, ali ne zato što su manje dobre. Prosto, stavljaju 'dobrost' iznad 'zabavnosti', što ne očekujem posle usputnog čitanja priča o vešticama ili čarobnjacima Disksveta.
Oh I liked Angua: smart, pretty, with a 'mysterious' monthly affliction AND all-around dangerous aura; basically the epitome of a kick-ass heroine.Thinking back on it, I'm guessing that I was also missing half of the big picture.
In any case, I can't wait to find out more about the Watch's resident weirdo.Another thing that I loved about this book, were the numerous one-liners.
Carrot says I don’t have any sex while I’m on duty.’To the background of Nobby’s frantic coughing, Colon said, very quickly, ‘What I mean is, lance-constable, young Carrot’s got krisma.
set the scene for the Ankh Morpork City Watch, establishing how the police would work in such a world and some of the central characters.
That's a lot of weight to put on one book, but even so, it feels effortless in its execution.Notable is the introduction of Angua and her relationship with Carrot and the return of Detritus and Gaspode with Detritus in particular getting some excellent characterization.
I'm a little less thrilled about this as the origin of Angua and Carrot's long-running relationship and both Gaspode's perspective on it as well as the message that is Big Fido's character.Overall it holds up well to a reading in the modern day.
People often die in Ankh-Morpork, mostly from suicide (walking along some of the city streets after dark is definitely suicidal), but now a series of murders have been committed.
Guards!, Sergeant Colon and Corporal Nobby, offer the readers multiple opportunities to giggle and snicker at their silly antics and amusing dialog.
The new recruits, Cuddy, the dwarf, and Detritus, the troll, represent the progressive policies of the Watch – to reflect the ethnic makeup of the city.
Once in a while, there comes a book where a secondary character steals the show as soon as he appears on the page.
Men at Arms is Terry Pratchett's fifteenth ...woah, really?
Pratchett has a ton of fun with this concept, playing both sides by skewering the idea of affirmative action in employment while simultaneously lampooning people who are biased against other races without even really being aware of it.Of course, that's not all.
Speaking of which, Men at Arms gets bonus points for including Gaspode the Wonder Dog, the talking mongrel who is only survives his many diseases (including Lickey End, which you only get if you're a pregnant sheep) because "the little buggers are too busy fighting among themselves."All in all, another great book in one of my favorite settings with some of my favorite characters.
I love love love this book. The way we get to learn more about the characters in the watch and also the Patrician is amazing. I feel like a broken record, but read these books!
3,5/5¿Por qué no puede salir Vimes TODO EL TIEMPO?*******Muy fan de Detritus**********
Men at Arms, the first[1] book in Pratchett's City Watch subseries, makes for a wonderful introduction to the characters and world of Discworld.
It can also be safely skipped in favour of Feet of Clay and Jingo, the next two books in the series.The story takes place in the colorful, polluted, wild, cynical city-state of Anhk Morpork, cheerful center of crime of the civilized world.
If you want to move straight to the best stuff, though, you can skip directly to Feet of Clay.[1]I am potentially alone in considering this to be the start of the City Watch subseries of Pratchett's Discworld.
