https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25812109-the-female-of-the-species
This is how I kill someone.And I don’t feel bad about it. BRUTAL. That's how I would describe this book. It sits there all unassuming with its cute yellow cover and pictures of animals, but underneath it has some serious fangs. Rather like the female of the species, I suppose.Quick warning: this book may not be suitable to those sensitive to rape and/or animal cruelty. Make no mistake, it's a nasty book. At times it's absolutely disgustingly awful. But it's a very sharp and effective look at se
The Female of the Species is told from the perspective of three different characters - Alex, whose sister was raped and murdered; Jack, the popular guy who desperately wants to get to know Alex; and Peekay, the preacher's kid whose ex-boyfriend ditched her for the beautiful Branley, and who now works at the animal shelter with Alex.Alex is haunted by her sister's murder.
There's a lot of examples like that in this book - the fine line between what we know we should do and what we really feel.So many interesting tidbits about human nature are woven into the story.

But boys will be boys, our favorite phrase that excuses so many things, while the only thing we have for the opposite gender is women, said with disdain and punctuated with an eye roll.There are a few things you have to accept for the purposes of the story, the biggest of which is a logistical issue (view spoiler)[namely, that physically, it's not that easy to do the things Alex did to Comstock (hide spoiler)].
However, I liked that Alex didn't judge Jack or other girls for his past, I liked the way a real obstacle came between them (view spoiler)[that is, that he had a real problem absorbing the disturbing information she revealed to him; too many books let the BF/GF give the MC a pass (hide spoiler)], and I liked the fantastic way the story ended.
Be preparedI just wasn't going to read this book.
I loved Alex Craft.
This story is about Alex, Peekay (Preacher's Kid, real name, Claire) and Jack.
There are some other people in the book, their friends, but it's mainly about them.
Alex and Peekay work at the animal shelter together and they become friends.
Alex takes care of the animals with a tender heart.
I love that they can put all of the things aside and just be friends.
I love that Alex is so tough and never backs down from taking up for her friends.
Just read it. I'm not sure what else to say. There are so many great quotes from "But boys will be boys, our favorite phrase that excuses so many things, while the only thing we have for the opposite gender is women, said with disdains and punctuated with an eye roll"to"I live in a world where not being molested as a child is considered luck."A tough but important read.
it's a gritty whipcrack of a book that has strong characters and story, but is also peppered with frank depictions about all the insidious ways rape culture manifests in the day-to-day, and about gender, behavior, teen sexualization, peer pressure, slut-shaming, jealousy, sexting, and female rage.i will likely reference this movie a lot in the course of this review.
She said that everything would change and I would look at them differently, assess their bodies and their words, the way their eyes moved when they talked to me.
It is familiar because there is high school drama and boy drama and thirsty, disgusting boys who can’t keep it in their pants and simply must jump on everything that moves.But then there’s Alex Craft who fights, quite violently, to stop the normalization of rape (‘‘boys will be boys’’) that becomes more and more prevalent every time someone fails to denounce it.
While I agree that it is not an easy read and, of course, unpredictable from start to finish (impossible for it not to be when you have a character like Alex Craft), it’s also somewhat quiet… and slow.
Mostly because it effortlessly balances (A) excellent moral questions, (B) commentates on how rape-culture and how disgusting our society is with it's apatheticness to it, (C) is completely morally-grey, (D) STABBINESS, and (E) has some of the most complex and amazing characters I've ever read.
She looks at you to long, she isn't emotional, she's very factual, and she talks like a book because she reads more than peoples.
She's like a person, not just this plastic prom queen, and even though SHE'S ABSOLUTELY HORRIBLE AT TIMES, the book said "hey everyone is human.
And I feel like this book is going to stay with me for a long time.
My emotions are all over the place.😢
So weird but so good
Opportunity is what matters, nothing else.”I wanted to read the Female of the Species ever since I first saw it on Goodreads, which must've been more than a year ago.
As it should happen, I was to read Mindy's newest release This Darkness Mine before I could finally dive into TFOTS.
Staying silent helps no one, least of all yourself.I love that the YA book community, is so demanding it what it wants to read.
And Mindy is one of the most promising authors when it comes to writing multi-layered characters and stories that matter.I couldn't recommend this book more.
I loved that this took place in 3 different perspectives because they all added something different to the story that by the end of the book tied together so well.
I feel like the impact would be a lot more stark if she stuck to the fact that a lot of sexual assault happens to people you're friends with or people you know.
This way, the ending wouldn't feel so.....
Idk. I think from that angle, it could have added a lot more impact.Regardless, I think this book packs a punch and I read it in less than 12 hours.
It's different than most YA contemporary that you'll read.
When I started reading this book this morning I wasn't expecting to finish it the same day... It was supremely weird, but also interesting, and I couldn't put it down!
This was INCREDIBLE
Let’s talk about some of them.ONE: Bringing in negative elements of rape culture without fully condemning or resolving themThere’s a sh*t ton of girl hate in this book.
I literally do not even do the readings in that class.)THREE: Rape culture is just here forever, intrinsically part of society, and there are no solutions ever at all sorry!!Speaking of things that are an intrinsic part of societal examinations that are full-on not included in this book: We are offered no solutions.
Everyone thinks if you fix a male dog it will lower his aggression, but most of the biters are female. It’s basic instinct to protect their womb. You see it in all animals - the female of the species is more deadly than the male.  The Female of the Species is a bit harder to review because of how important a book it is. It’s a story exploring rape culture, the effects of sexual assault, over-sexualization of teenagers, gender issues, sexual objectification, and slut-shaming. Set in Ohio with al
You see it in all animals - the female of the species is more deadly than the male.
It’s a story exploring rape culture, the effects of sexual assault, over-sexualization of teenagers, gender issues, sexual objectification, and slut-shaming.
Alex refuses to let that happen and gets away with her crime.
He wants so badly to get to know Alex.Peekay is the preacher’s kid who was recently dumped for Branley leading to plenty of slut-shaming moments.
I found myself envious of Alex, not because she was a vigilante but because she did something about it.I cannot recommend this book enough for the relevance of it’s message.
(hide spoiler)]But even so, The Female of the Species would not simply be “just another book that talks about rape”; it does examine rape culture, yes, but it also explores friendships, and loyalty, it talks about morals, courage, love, and it shines a light on feminism, and so many other issues that contemporaries should shine a light on, but unfortunately rarely do.
But it is also honest, hopeful, and filled with love, and compassion.I have read my fair share of books dealing with rape, a few of which I already deemed immensely well-written, but this one … I feel like it carved out a hole in my chest, and left behind an emptiness that I don’t know how to fill, and I don’t know if I will ever stop hurting from it.Blog ¦ Bloglovin’ ¦ Tumblr ¦ Instagram
This book was brutal, dark, raw, and reel.....Violence begets violence...
Alex has always had a little something...
a little spark of anger in her....
until her sister was raped and murdered....
she also felt as though she would never be normal......
she felt as though perhaps she had a chance...
a chance to live a normal life.....
BUT as we all know in life bad things happen....This book made a very strong statement about rape, girls, and slut shaming....
It's a small town."Alex Craft's life was turned upside down three years earlier when her older sister Anna was murdered.
Alex takes matters into her own hands, and the killer was found brutally tortured and murdered.
She's known as the girl with the murdered sister, and she keeps herself occupied by reading and running.
She tries as hard as she can, but her need to avenge mistreatment, violence, wrongdoing by taking matters into her own hands always wins out.
Yet no character is like Alex Craft.
This is book with tremendous heart and emotion, suspense, and some violence which might be troubling for some.
Anger makes you tired, but guilt keeps you from falling asleep. An enormously ferocious book. More importantly, a fabulously feminist one.I mean what do I want in a book?► I want intriguing characters with interesting lives dealing with complicated issues, there were more than one of those in this. ► I want good writing that’s not slipped into pretentious zone, this one has that in spade.► I want emotions, I got emotionsss.► I want chemistry: tensions and big fireworks not just dim sparks I hav
An enormously ferocious book.
More importantly, a fabulously feminist one.I mean what do I want in a book?► I want intriguing characters with interesting lives dealing with complicated issues, there were more than one of those in this.
► I want good writing that’s not slipped into pretentious zone, this one has that in spade.► I want emotions, I got emotionsss.► I want chemistry: tensions and big fireworks not just dim sparks I have to squint to see, this book got that so so surprising well.
And it is fabulously feminist.The most surprising thing is I found myself really charmed by Jack.
It was too heartbreaking for this tender-heart bird.Which brings up another dilemma of mine: why did the talk of animals being killed hurt more than the idea of some of the other topics in this book?
When I have talked to some of the other people who have read this book, they all felt the same way I did.
Even if you took out the romance in this book, the friendship between Alex and Peekay is worth the read.
One of the best and most important YA books you'll ever read. So so so so dark, but holy crap it is so powerful. It will stay with you LONG after you finish.
It's the wish fulfillment of avenging sex crimes.There are 3 points of view in this book:There's Alex, the girl who takes revenge.
Who doesn't think much about taking drinks from strangers.While it might seem at first that this book is kind of crass, or slut-shaming, I quickly came to realize that we had to see those examples in order for the book to start making points about them.
The way that each of these characters learn from each other was a really beautiful thing.There are many examinations of what separates human-nature from animal-nature, the difference in violent thought versus violent behavior, and what makes something right or wrong?
WOW!!! Don't let the title fool you. The Female of the Species is dark, brutal, & deadly. Mindy McGinnis weaves a tale of teenage angst, vigilante justice, & the pervasiveness of rape culture. I read this book with a knot the size of a fist in my stomach. I have a feeling I'll be thinking about the book for a long time. I recommend this book to all my fellow females & anyone who knows a female.
I wish I could tell you all about this book and how it’s intense and heartbreaking, but I’m still in a daze and my heart isn’t quite ready to process it all.
Nothing I write here will ever do this book justice. Just read it.
She stealthily plants ideas into your psyche that slowly start to change your perception until, without notice or permission, you're presented with a horrifying reality that makes you question everything you've ever been taught and have taught to the girls and young women in your life.This book is required reading for teen girls and the people responsible for their well-being.
I think the most profound lesson in this story is that girls have a voice and it's important to use it, to stand up when you see or experience something that makes you uncomfortable.
I am utterly speechless.This book was so incredibly profound I cannot form words.
This story messed with my head man...
it messed with me like crazy and it was dark as hell and I cannot even comprehend what...
I hate to keep doing this, but since I'm knee deep in the Booktube-A-Thon right now I can't take the time to write a proper review.
I will for sure be doing this once I'm done reeling from this entire thing.
Holy shit...
please just read this freaking book.
I'll try to convince you more in my full review soon.
After reading, I discovered that this novel is actually a well illustrated criticism of society's dismissive attitude toward women's issues, rape & rape culture in particular.I wasn't prepared for such an encompassing story to be present in a such a small book.
As the story unfolded, however, I quickly reversed my opinion.I was taken aback by how realistic the characters became by the end of the book, each with their own tendencies, preferences, & insecurities.
It feels like the situation was a bit contrived, and I had my hopes pointed in a different direction than the story ended up going.
Mindy McGinnis is very talented.It's so fascinating how she's able to actually write differently for every point of view. You do not have to check who's pov you're currently reading because you'll know just by how they are thinking, speaking and acting. Most books I read that have more than one pov were not able to do that, especially not as GOOD as this one is doing it!
