https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13269.The_Poetics_of_Space
Bachelard is trying to understand the "happy mind" - the mind making itself a home everywhere, no matter how hostile the environment.
But like Claude Levi-Strauss or Rene Girard, Bachelard also leaves you with a form, a process that you can use to think about how you think.
And no matter how unhappy we are, our mind's are all trying to be happy (happy meaning at times, unfortunately, unhappy, but then maybe the "happiness" Bachelard is talking about is only movement and life, the happiness of the seed).As domestic a book as Anna Karenina, as accordion-expansive as Walden, as razor sharp as Candide.
Places creating the spaces of reverie, oneiric experiences through which a self attains harmony; the house in which you live and which lives within you, those drawers and chests which are abode to memories to which you return again and again, the corner which stands as a retreat for solitude.In the words of William Wordsworth, “We are less forlorn in a world which we meet with our imagination”.The reveries of mind cumulate into creating those images which bring harmony in the existence.
It has been lived in, not in its positivity, but with all the partiality of the imagination.” -Bachelard“A house that stands in my heartMy cathedral of silenceEvery morning recaptured in dreamEvery evening abandonedA house covered with dawnOpen to the winds of my youth.” -Jean LaRoche, Memoires d'ete”...the unlimited solitude that makes a lifetime of each day, toward a communion with the universe, in a word, space, the invisible space that man can live in nevertheless, and which surrounds him with countless presences.” -Rilke, LettresIt is my inclination to compose this entire piece on Bachelard with citations from his book and the fragments of poems he collects; little needs to be said or can be said on the subject of intimate, poetic, personalized space that is not touched upon in his phenomenological study of the oneiric life, The Poetics of Space, and it is certainly beyond my capabilities to improve on such distilled, pure imaginative discourse.
This is less a work of systematic philosophy than a daydreamer's scrapbook with lovely poetry snippets pasted in.Bachelard applies the philosophy of phenomenology to architecture, stating that a house or home is not just a physical thing, but also a place where our memories or thoughts make an impression on it, and shape it even further.
He takes further and begins to investigate the meanings of little details in houses, like dressers, corners, and the metaphor of a home as a 'nest' or 'shell'.
Of course, because such a work is built entire on subjective musings, no reader will totally agree with Bachelard's conclusions.
You know - the one you lived in as an infant.
Why, for Pete’s sake?Much later, I was reminded by my Mom that we had lived in Big Sur when I was one year old, where my Dad worked as a biologist at Hopkins Marine Station.
And of course, she always wanted me to have a good grounding in classical music.
Please read Geoff's fabulous review of the print version within these GR comments - he has put an ENORMOUS amount of work into it, and done a much finer job than I could ever do.And then, if you can - buy or borrow the book!
Bachelard offers nothing, and I mean nothing, new in terms of philosophical insight or logical exposition, in ‘Poetics’.
Clearly this is my personal phenomenological (heh heh) interpretation of this book, and others who have not come across the concept of a house/dwelling/physical space acquiring anthropomorphic features and functioning as an extension of, or a repository of, stream of consciousness, memory and image memes, might be tickled pink into this beginners bible on the subject.
Each line he writes is filled with the wonder of a man who stops to smell the flowers and rediscovers the meaning in life in that infinitely small gesture.
[W]e are never real historians, but always near poets, and our emotion is perhaps nothing but an expression of a poetry that was lost.
The Poetics of Space is not some rigorous discussion of the concept of home or the distinction between inside and outside.
Bachelard prefers "daydream".
As one reads, one takes shorthand from the philosopher's imagination.
The citations refer to the poetic, not the philosophical.
I suspect that is political.Borrowing Bachelard's seminal point of contact, his Poetics remains half-open.
I loved the sections on nests and wardrobes, each dizzying with references to Rimbaud and insularity.
I simply felt the wider thrust of the book abandoned the thesis of the Home.
هل صحيحٌ ما أوردته الفلسفات الميتافيزيقية ، أن الإنسان ( مقذوفٌ في العالم ) ، مخذول ، متروك للتساؤل في عالمٍ صريح في عدائيته ؟ أم أن ما نسمّيه ( الوجود – هناك ) ليس كابوسياً كما يُصوّر لنا بقدر ما هو مشروع لانفتاح الداخل على الخارج ، لاحتواء العالم عوضاً عن التشظي فيه ؟إن غاستون باشلار ، كما يتبدى جلياً من خلال الاقتباس السابق يعارض بقوّة ما تضخه الفلسفات الوجودية حول عدائية المكان ، و حتى انفصالية المكان ، حيثُ ” أنا المكان الذي أوجد فيه ” ( نويل آرنو ) ، و حيثُ ” المكان في لا مكان ، إنه في الداخل ، مثل العسل في الخلية ” ( جو بوسكوي ) ..
He whispers to you everything you've always known, intimate knowledge that we all share wordlessly, yet he increases its mystery by speaking about it in a hush of clarity that does not defile the subject matter as psychologists, philosophers, or psychoanalysts do.
More specifically, the poet's image, which arises purely, in a realm before thought or language, springing forth without history or context or reason.
The image is Bachelard's tool for studying the essence of safe places in which (and for which) daydreaming takes place, like the house, the drawer, and the shell.
The phenomenologist, like the poet, is interested entirely in the 

إن كنت سأتحدّث عن هذا الكتاب، عليّ أولاً: أن أقوم بعدَّ المرّات التي انتشيت فيها.
كانت البداية مبهمة، لأنّه يحتاج إلى قليلاً من الجهد حتّى تستطيع استيعاب ما يحاول قوله، لكن هذا في البداية فقط، مع الفصول يتماهى هذا الشعور!
ويبدأ الاستمتاع عندما يتخلل بفلسفته إلى كلّ رواية، قصيدة، رسالة ويوميّات.
قلت مرّة: بأن قراءتي لن تكون مثل ما كانت عليه بعد أن قرأت " جماليات المكان " وحدث هذا فعلاً.
باشلار بجانب كلّ الفلسفة التي يرمي بها إليّك يهبك نظرة أخرى اتجاه الأشياء، وكما يقولها ريلكه: رفيقاتنا في الوجود، ويهب الحياة حياة!
خودی زمانمند برآمده از گذشته و پیش رونده به آینده.پیکره ی اصلی مطالعات باشلار شعر است زیرا باشلار ناب ترین تصاویر را در اشعار اصیل شاعران و در نظام کلامی جستجو میکند و نسبت به دیگر هنرها آشنایی کمتری دارد.
باشلار بیش از اینکه بر هر هنری تاکید کند بر خودِ تخیل تاکید میکند و دستاورد پژوهشهای خود را به دیگرهنرها قابل تعمیم میداند زیرا همه ی اینها داری سرشتی واحدند البته باشلار نسبت به نقاشی بی توجه نبوده است.
مثلا در فصل پایانی که میخواهد به پدیدارشناسی ِ گردی بپردازد در کنار یاسپرس ِ فیلسوف و لافونتن ِ شاعر ونگوگ نقاش را هم قرار می¬دهد.پدیدار شناسی تخیل موضوع اصلی مطالعات پدیدارشناسانه ی باشلار محسوب میشود.
مع أول كتاب أقرأه لباشلار، أجد نفسي في عالم قرائي فلسفي فكريّ جديد، أتعرف عليه للمرة الأولى ويجذبني إليه، وإن استعصى عليّ إدراك كل أركانه ومحتوياته...وأبحث عن مزيد من كتبه ومقولاته وأفكاره وآرائه...وأقرأ أكثر عن الظاهراتيّة ومفهومها عند باشلار، وكيف أسقطها على ما يحيط به، وعلى المكان تحديدا في هذا الكتابيعد باشلار واحداً من أهم الفلاسفة الفرنسيين ، وهناك من يقول أنه أعظم فيلسوف ظاهراتي ، فقد مثلت أفكاره إضافات مهمة للمنجز الفلسفي الظاهراتي، ولاسيما في حدود انشغاله بالمكان وتكشفاته القيمية والجمالية.
إن بداية الظاهراتية الفلسفية للأعشاش تكون في قدرتنا على توضيح الاهتمام الذي نطالع به ألبومًا يحتوي على صور الأعشاش، أو بشكل أكثر وضوحًا، قدرتنا على استعادة الدهشة الساذجة التي كنا نشعر بها حين نجد عشًا.
In this book he approached space, as in the places that surround us and that we occupy.
These are not esoteric overly metaphysical spaces.I read this book while en route to Las Vegas for a family gathering.
Las Vegas is a space I hate with unspeakable disgust- yet, I remember reading the Poetic of Space in this environment and it made the whole incident even more surreal- I copied many passages from the book into my notebook.
Bachelard brings together philosophers and writers and whole host of dreamers to unfold complicated concepts into an elegant reading moment.
“…great dreamers possess intimacy with the world.”- Bachelard
Bachelard begins the book by laying out his theory of the poetic image.
Unlike metaphor, which is merely an intellectual comparison, the true poetic image causes a deep resonance in the reader.
As such, Bachelard's favorite word in the book is "daydreaming" - the course that your mind is set on after reading a particularly resonant image.
The rest of the book is an application of this theory to various poetic images - mostly relating, in some way, to the home.
The vast majority of the book is spent in this image analysis, and is pretty hit and miss.
Bachelard claims to, and in most cases succeeds in, examining the "dialectical shadings" of all manner of things associated with home: cabinets, shelves, nooks, crannies, dressers and more.
My main beef with the book lies in what Bachelard seems to neglect: what about experiences of place that are marked by trauma?
Not all of our associations with small spaces need be pleasant and nurturing in their "wombiness." I'm glad Bachelard had a nice childhood, but I wonder how those who have experienced abuse or violence in the home would psychologically experience a box or enclosed image differently.
My hopes for an intelligent reading of intimate and public spaces were squashed by Bachelard's constant quoting of Rilke and endless pages about snails in their shells. The constant comparisons between psychology, psychoanalysis and phenomenology became tedious as soon as I realized phenomenology would always win. I know this is a classic, but it read like a drunk man monopolizing conversation at dinner.
Though I've read this book a few times to capture the nuances of Bachelard's analyses, I still can't say I have a good grasp on the content to write a wholesome review worthy of its content.All I can say as a layman, is that this book has helped me dismantle the topology of quite a few poems over the years.
Topoanalysis has become a seminal aspect of my reading as well as my writing.
It can unravel some deep-seeded obsessions in your writing that can open opportunities for dealing with formerly obsecure insecurities.a truly inspiring work of Psychology/Philosophy that I'll be re-reading endlessly.
Nope.It wasn't Bachelard's preoccupation with psychoanalysis, although that hasn't aged very well -- the nattering on about psychoanalytical approaches to phenomenology sounded silly and smelled moldy, and was about as engaging as reading about phrenological approaches (actually, that might have been more interesting).
After about four chapters, I could no longer see any point continuing on -- I had winnowed out everything there was for me to get from the book, and it wasn't much.He does have a style that I supposed could be appreciated on purely aesthetic grounds, but serious engagement with psychoanalytical theory takes the joy out of that kind of reading.
للأسف قاومت مللي منه وإملاله لي فما استطعتحاولتفما نجحتوحسبي أن تعرفت على علم جديد من الفلسفةوهي الفلسفة الظاهراتيةلعلي في قابل الأيام إذا مدّ ربي في عمري أن أقرأ مثل هذه الكتب بشغف أكثر مما أنا عليه
Forgive me if that sounds either lazy or willfully ignorant, but I don't feel the need to pretend I can wrap my head around everything he said, especially in translation, and I think that the book is strengthened, not weakened, by the fact that the most beautiful and elegant things he has to say stand on their own so completely.What I love most is the way that he manages to get under the skin of a whole set of feelings -- the kind of evocative aura of childhood spaces, of the home of the heart, of the house snug against the storm, of nooks and crannies and shelves.
To inhabit oneirically the house we were born in means more than to inhabit it in memory; it means living in this house that is gone, the way we used to dream in it.”I have been waiting for years to read this little book.
In this charming and surprisingly readable text, the French philosopher Gaston Bachelard talks about the intersection between poetry, imagination, and buildings — and does it in such a way that makes you want to constantly scope your surroundings for hidden meaning.
For we have in our memories micro-films that can only be read if they are lighted by the bright light of the imagination.”
I thought this was an interesting book which started off well but I sort of lost interest in it near the end.
Certainly worth a read as it’s not a massive book at all.
The book is about space and the philosophy of it.
As the book notes some of our fondest memories as with all things are placed in a physical space.
If you feel nostalgic and think back to your days of youth there will often be a physical location or space that you associate with that memory.

I've never really decided how I really feel about this text. Part of me knows it's total bullshit but another part of me wants to believe in it and enjoy the ridiculous, quasi-academic frenchitude. Maybe they're not mutually exclusive ;)
Quite simply, this book purports to be a work of philosophy (apparently one of phenomenology, though its metaphysics owe a far greater debt to Bergson than to Husserl or Brentano), but is best described as a meditation on poetry, and the connection between language and private spaces.
There are many passages of lyrical beauty - describing the formation of a snail shell, or meditating on a blade of grass.
Bachelard's intention, then, is to create a poetics of metaphysics, abandoning logical preconceptions and prioritising experience: the attic, the nest, a blade of grass, a forest.
A life changing book. "Does there exist a single dreamer of words who does not respond to the word wardrobe?"
"A phenomenologist...takes the image just as is, just as the poet created it, and tries to make it his own, to feed on this rare fruit. He brings the image to the very limit of what he is able to imagine. However far from being a poet he may be, he tries to repeat its creation for himself and, if possible, continue its exaggeration." This book should be taken and appreciated and feasted on in a similar fashion.
This book, despite its popularity with architects, is just what it says on the label: it is about the experience of poetic images of place.
It is also a very French book, and not just all of France even, as it doesn't really deal with the sea or the coast, but rather with the plain and forest and the city.
This book is an incomplete catalog of images of place.
The book's meat doesn't really start until after the introduction (which is wordy and self-important and not nearly as good as what follows) when the discussion of poetic images begin.
”But we still have books, and they give our daydreams countless dwelling places.”Though at times I felt completely inspired by Bachelard’s poetic interpretation of the imagination and the memories that inspire and move us to creative expression, I will say that this book as a whole is pretty abstract and long-winded.
Let us go forth and examine the significant moments and images that make up our corner of the world, and let us keep those things alive through the power of our dreams.
”It is on the plane of the daydream and not on that of facts that childhood remains alive and poetically useful within us.”
إن النقطة الأساسية التي ينطلق منها باشلار هي أن البيت القديم، بيت الطفولة، هو مكان الألفة، و مركز تكييف الخيال.
و عندنا نبتعد عنه نظل دائمًا مستعيد ذكراه، و نسقط على الكثير من مظاهر الحياة المادية ذلك الإحساس بالحماية و الأمن اللذين كان يوفّرهما لنا البيت.
إننا نعيش لحظات البيت من خلال الأدراج و الصناديق و الخزائن التي يسميها باشلار " بيت الأشياء " العشّ، يبعث إحساسنا بالبيت لأنه يجعلنا نضع أنفسنا في أصل منبع الثقة بالعالم.- هل كان العصفور يبني عشّه لو لم يكن يملك غرزة الثقة بالعالم؟ القوقعة تجسّد انطواء الإنسان داخل المكان، في الزوايا و الأركان، لأن فعل الانطواء ينتمي إلى ظاهراتيّة فعل ( يسكن ).
This book is a distillation of how our imaginations are formed and extended along the lines of the spaces we inhabit.
I loved the passage on shelters, the way they keep us warm and safe and encourage imaginative growth.
Bachelard notes that we are warm and toasty in our homes because it's cold outside.
You enjoy the warmth because you know it's cold!
He talks about resonance, reverberations, and all the sorts of ways nooks and crannies, locks, shells(home for turtles and snails), attics, and cottages and castles and all these aspects of our spaces give us imaginative relief.
اتسهوتني فلسفة باشلار كثيرا.. أو بالأحرى أعجبني اسلوب طرحه للأفكار الجمالية كثيرا، كون الكاتب يسرد كتابه بأسلوب ظاهراتي لم أقرأ له مثيل من قبل وجعلني استميل لقراءة كتبه الأخرى بكل تاكيد!
I'd read parts before, and had a somewhat more negative opinion. Despite the many, many assumptions that Bachelard goes into the book with, it remains valuable. First off, he spatializes Bergsonian ideas, which helps to organize a spatial narrative. Second, he unifies philosophy and poetics, yielding a dual method that proves more effective than either individually. If you choose to read the book as a subjective experience rather than as a comprehensive, philosophical work, than it turns out to be a very strange and altogether enjoyable text.
“Daydream transports the dreamer outside the immediate world to a world that bears the mark of infinity.”This book made me love poetry (I cannot say all the more), as Bachelard analyzed the subtleties of the human imagination in the creation of a poetic image, or as he calls it "a reverberation of the soul".
This was done through the use of a phenomenological technique, combined with a deeply critical psychoanalytic review of the human mind on the comprehension of objects in space.
Each is viewed from a different perspective (shown through poetry) and connotated with explanations relating to our deeply set Freudian admiration or fear of the object/location.
ـ"اننا نريح أنفسنا من خلال ان نعايش مرة اخرى ذكريات الحماية...لسنا مؤرخين، بل نحن أقرب إلى الشعراء، وقد تكون انفعالاتنا ليست إلا تعبير عن الشعر الذي فقدناه""إن أماكن لحظات عزلتنا الماضية، والأماكن التي عانينا فبها من الوحدة، والتي تألفنا مع الوحدة فيها، تظل راسخة في داخلنا، لأننا نرغب في ان تبقئ كذلك"غاستون باشلارد
A bit twee. You can't be this sentimental and take yourself this seriously. Even when I appreciated his insights, Bachelard's voice had me slightly annoyed. I have to return this to the library soon. For God's sake, stop nattering on about tablecloths.
Inspired, meaningful ruminations on dwellings, spaces. Illuminates how profoundly homes and spaces impart themselves on our imaginations, memories, experiences, daydreams ... a path to understanding, evolving.
To understand silence, to understand space is to understand the emergent infinite plane.
These intimate spaces, the house, the cellar, the basement etc.
affect our psyche in hitherto unexplored ways.
The poets throughout time have used these images of intimate spaces in order to evoke differing feelings in the reader.
Within this extraordinary philosopher's reflections on the poetics of space you might find some symbols of the images found within dreams.
Reflecting alongside the symbolic thoughts of Gaston Bachelard might reacquaint you with the very keys to understanding your mind deeply.I highly recommend this great book.

To localize a memory in time is merely a matter for the biographer and only corresponds to a sort of external history, for external use, to be communicated to others."I think this, and his larger point, is best expressed in the following quote: "In short, the house we were born in has engraved within us the hierarchy of the various functions of inhabiting." Or, more plainly, the ways in which we respond physically and emotionally to buildings in adult life are often reflections of how we related to our first home.
As an adult pairing to my favorite childhood book "The Little Princess," by Frances Hodgson Burnett, this book similarly relishes its own reveries as rich ends unto themselves while also examining the important inversions of the poetic image as sustenance.
Which is a strong assumption at the foundation of this book, giving it a whimsical and almost quaint, but also charming feel--that the imagination is the seat of comfort, pleasure, and interior enjoyment.
As he quotes from Van Gogh, "Life is round." And if we can perceive this roundness, we can call on it in ourselves as a means of nourishment, which is what little Sarah Crewe does after becoming a poor, mistreated, and starving orphan.
I don't know much about phenomenology, but how Bachelard talked about interior spaces (which are the focus of the work) was really engaging.
The work was digressive, but not difficult to follow.
In particular, I enjoyed the chapters about houses.
I also appreciated the importance he attributed to poetry.“The poet speaks on the threshold of being” (xii).And all the spaces of our past moments of solitude, the space in which we have suffered from solitude, enjoyed, desired and compromised solitude, remain indelible within us, and precisely because the human being wants them to remain so.
There has been more chaos happening in my personal life over the past few months than I care to discuss, but this book has given me a nice periodic retreat into contemplation and a soothing outlook on more permanent things.The Poetics of Space was my introduction to phenomenology, which took some getting used to.
A continuum can imply some sort of progression, but it may be better to think of these responses as simply different, if even that.But back to the book itself-- it's a consideration of the phenomenology of types of space that surround us, types of space that are often defined and meditated upon in poetry and other literature with and without reference to each other.
و لكنه في الحقيقة كتاب فلسفي محض يختص في تحليل العبارات الشعرية التي تتعرض للأمكنة و تفسير هذه الكتابات كنوع من أحلام اليقظة ( الخيال ) التي تحرضها أرواح الامكنة و الذكريات و التركيز على مكامن الالفة و الدفء فيها بالاضافة الى تفاعل القراء معها ...
الحياة المدورة الكتاب يحوي عدة اضاءات مهمة جميلة أعجبتني ك ( البيوت صاحبة الجذور – جمالية الكوخ – بعض الوصف عن العش - الانفصال و التماهي مع العالم – الدرج - الفلاسفة يسكنون الطابق الارضي لانه منطقي بينما الشعراء يطيرون الى السقيفة ويغوصون في القبو – المنحني و الزاوية - مصباح المساء ....
كذلك احتوى الكتاب على 3 مقدمات طولة جدا ...
