https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/66522.The_Seventh_Sinner

Dr. Scoville, father of Andy, one of the students could have been the prototype for another famous fictional archaeologist from Indiana.
The story is set in Rome and, while perhaps a little dated -- it was written in 1972 -- is very enjoyable nevertheless.
It unfolds through the eyes of Jean Stuttman, one of seven -- a number that ostensibly has great significance to the murder - - art/archaeology students studying at Rome's famous Institute of Art and Archaeology.
I absolutely love Elizabeth Peters' Amelia Peabody series so I thought I'd give her earlier work a try what a mistake.
Nope not even the main character, Jacqueline Kirby.
The seven semi-friends meet every morning at the local cafe for coffee and feel compelled to include a disagreeable fellow who refuses to get lost.
The book really starts when said fellow winds up dead at a party at one of the seven friends houses (to which he was not invited).
There was too much history and/or religious background for my tastes that it almost eclipsed the mystery itself.
All in all a good mystery but a terrible accounting.
I picked this book up at a book sale because I am a huge fan of Elizabeth Peters Amelia Peabody series.
There can be something that could be really interesting about switching the POV from the normal "detective" of the novel to the "victim" so to speak, but it robs the reader of the ability to solve the mystery before all is revealed at the end.
However, I am interested in how the next novel is structured as the synopsis makes it seem as if the POV will be following Jacqueline Kirby.
(Heck, I'm probably the only one in my library that thinks it's funny that our IT department named our network drive Marian.) Or by the continual allusions to her being sensible, though there is "more to her than meets the eye".But did Elizabeth Peters really just introduce us to Jacqueline by using the Porn Movie Librarian Stereo-type?!?!?
I was asked to invest in caring about characters that I don't think continue on into the next book while being denied the chance to really care about what happens to Jacqueline.
Because I know what Elizabeth Peters is capable of in her story writing is the only reason I might give the 2nd book a chance.
Elizabeth Peters's novel The Murders of Richard III impressed me as being just the thing for reading when in need of light entertainment and amusement.
And it did.Featuring librarian-sleuth Jacqueline Kirby again, this novel is set in Rome, among a small group of young research fellows and other advanced foreign students at an international institute for the study of art and architecture.
In the Amelia Peabody series, Ms. Peters' characters just come to life and are very three-dimensional.
We never get a sense of any of the characters, they are all fairly one-dimensional, and the narration is not even from Jacqueline's POV, but Jean, a character who probably will not even be in the next book.
But the book is an important stepping stone in Ms. Peters career if it helped her evolve into the writer which produced such a wonderful series as Amelia Peabody.
I'll probably only read the second Jacqueline Kirby book if I find it at a library sale or on a clearance shelf.
I have the cassettes, not the CDs. I can't believe I'm categorizing this as a period piece since I was alive then but it is written in the 1970s and so does have dialogue from that time period, "Right on" and calling cops the "Fuzz".
As I was alive during that time period, I can safely say no one in my impoverished, crime riddled neighborhood in the Bay Area of California called the police the "Fuzz".
So, I'm thinking at the time she wrote this, Elizabeth Peters wanted to appear up to date on all of the current slang and that is why she threw it in.
Jacqueline Kirby sweeps in on the young Jean and her childish graduate student friends, who are students at an Institute for Architecture and Art in Rome.
Peters set several books in Rome and I hope she got to take a trip there off her taxes because she certainly uses the setting to great effect, although this one is a teensy bit travelogue-y at the expense of character development.
Jean is narrating and she’s an annoying vaguely naive and insipid everywoman common in Peters’ books of the era, despite her realistic response to finding a body.
That may be why I much prefer Vicky Bliss and Amelia Peabody to the Jacqueline Kirby books.
We learn she is free of obligations and her apparent goal is to fully indulge her freedom in any way that entertains her, and with a parade of men who catch her fancy, but never do we see more than that.
She is heady with the freedom, but her measure of well-spent time seems, at least where people are concerned, what will entertain her the most in the most unique and idiosyncratic way.
I admit though that I did not guess who did it until 2/3 of the way through (late for me), and the why was a surprise I never saw coming.
She is kept in the background and all the other characters are better drawn.
This is one the first of Peters published books in the mystery genre and it was a little un even.
But I do like the location ,the history and the interesting trips into catacombs, old churches as a search for a murderer spreads out .
A very unlikeable character is murdered leaving a written clue of seven in the dust beside his body.
We get to learn about seven saints, seven churches, seven hills of Rome and more.
The liberal use of google images really added to the enjoyment of the book.
This is the first book of the Jacqueline Kirby series although not shown as such above...I think I have found my next mystery writer.
I am not sure why this mystery is classified as fiction.
The book could be non-fiction with the amount of ancient Roman history that Ms. Peters wove around her mystery.
The mystery was almost secondary, but she presented it in such a way that I didn't mind at all.
Jacqueline Kirby is a librarian and is the detective of this series.
Of course, I am partial to librarians so that probably accounts for me liking the story in spite of all of the history details.

This one was not as good as Peter's Amelia Peabody stories. One of the main characters, Jacqueline, was strange and the narrator was not the best choice for the story. However, the setting of ancient Rome gave it the historical/archaeological feel that Peters tends to have in her stories. Also, the idea of the main characters as modern scholars studying various aspects of the ancient city was interesting, but I felt that the listener/reader would have understood the ending of the story better if he/she had once been a graduate student too.
I loved the scholarly atmosphere of this one. I was a bit disappointed to discover that I must have read this once way back when - I didn't even remember whodunit (though I put the clues together much quicker than usual, presumably because I unconsciously remember who the perpetrator was) but I did remember the seven students and their gathering. Regardless, it was a fun and quick little mystery.
I LOVE the Amelia Peabody and Vicky Bliss series by Elizabeth Peters. I tried real hard to like this one but couldn't get in to it. I don't even think I am going to try the rest of the series it was just so uninteresting and disconnected. I didn't like any of the characters, particularly the lead Jacqueline Kirby, the crime didn't make sense, the scenery was boring. I really hated to hate this since I love her other books so much. :(
Yes, another Elizabeth Peter's series. This one is the first in the Jacqueline Kirby mystery series. Jacqueline is a querky American librarian who falls into hillarious mysteries. How could you not adore her adventures???
I've been a fan of Elizabeth Peters for years, and have read many of her series. This however was not one of her best. The plot dragged, the characters were flat ... I will not go back for another Jacqueline Kirby.
Had high expectations after the Amelia Peabody series... but I hated this one. The characters were tedious, and I wasn't surprised at the ending.
Elizabeth Peters wrote three series, the best known of which revolves around Amelia Peabody's adventures.
When I finished that series, I decided to try the Jacqueline Kirby series.In this, the first, Jacqueline is drawn into the orb of seven fellows at an archaeology institute in Rome.
The group meets regularly for coffee and those discussions that so enthrall academicians and spends weekends exploring Rome's sites.During a visit to a basilica, and the underlying temples, one of the group's hanger-ons is found dying, an apparent suicide.
But Jacqueline distrusts that facile explanation and the accidents that follow.
Reluctantly, Jacqueline associates with the too-young-for-words students.Not the best of Peters' books but good enough to try the second in the series.
First, I'm a long-time Elizabeth Peters fan.
However, I was very disappointed during reading and after finishing this book.
I've read all the Amelia Peabody books and many of the Vicky Bliss ones, and this isn't remotely up to the standards of either of those series.
Though I enjoyed the descriptions of Rome, those were the only real highlights of the book for me.
The characters came across as contrived, and the main character didn't draw me in and make me want to follow her in another book.
I wouldn't recommend this book to anyone.
A group of seven students are studying in Rome. They meet a fascinating woman that rather adopts them who is a librarian. They spend quite a bit of their time visiting catacombs and churches---when suddenly a disliked tag along is murdered. It is listed by the police as a suicide, but Jean and Jake don't believe that.A bit more of a romance than I usually read, but pretty good. I'd actually give it a 3.5.
I LOVE the Amelia Peabody series but sadly this one fell flat for me. Like some have mentioned, I have no idea why this was written in the POV that it was when the series is about Jacquline? Plus, there we’re times when so many people were talking and it just got a bit confusing (as this was an audiobook read for me). Probably because the characters just weren’t distinct to me. At the end of the day, I still love Elizabeth Peters and it won’t stop me from reading more of her. This just fell flat for me.
I am in love with Elizabeth Peters' Amelia Peabody series, reading and re-reading them often, so I thought that I'd give her Jacqueline Kirby series a try. It was...fine, I guess. But I'm probably not going to bother with the rest of the series. I didn't like any of the characters. I wasn't engaged in the story. It just fell a little flat with me.
I discovered Elizabeth Peters years ago when I fell in love with her Amelia Peabody series. When I saw this earlier book at the library, I thought I would enjoy it as well but I was wrong. This story did not hold my attention at all. I found it slow and there was not a single character that I liked. This one was just not for me.
A nice little murder mystery set in Rome. I love a cast of graduate student characters. I love that San Clemente was the site of the murder. I’m knocking off a star because there was one female character who is just slut shamed and maligned throughout the whole book, which seemed pretty old fashioned. Otherwise it was a great Peters mystery with heavy Agatha Christie influence.
Classic. The clues are reminiscent of Christie’s Death on the Nile.Kirby appears to be good in a group setting as I’m seeing in the follow up novel. The companionship between Jean and Jacqueline was refreshing.
Reread.I love Jacqueline Kirby :)
Laughable bad.
This is the first non-Amelia Peabody book of Elizabeth Peters that I have read (listened to) and I really enjoyed it.
