https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13584236-fifty-shades-trilogy
Maybe then you would see why female characters like Bella and Ana aren't just ridiculous, they are also harmful to impressionable girls who read it and think they should emulate the pathetic behaviors of these two characters in order to snare a man) The writer describes Christian as someone who has not matured beyond the age of 15.
Nothing makes me care for a character less than reading about some nut who needs major psychiatric help because he is so crippled by life that he chooses to fuck women that look like his mommy.
My reaction whenever someone tells me they love these books:(view spoiler)[  (hide spoiler)]Fifty Shades of Bad Writing (my fourth review of this cultural clusterfuck)["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
It is that bad.*This is Twilight fan fiction.
It is not original fiction.
It is an affront to the romance genre and everyone who reads real romance novels.*Real erotica is not this badly written.*This has nothing to do with BDSM.
It is an insult to the lifestyle and everyone who participates in it.*The relationship depicted is abusive.
They are not in a BDSM relationship.
He tells her he wants to beat the shit out of her.
*I am embarrassed and disgusted by the free world for supporting this pilfered, terribly written tripe.Go read some real books by real authors.
I will not address quality, as many other books I have read and reviewed, have been of a much poorer quality than this particular series, and yet the storylines have been interesting.Erotic Adult Fiction: Erotic adult fiction is now a female driven genre both as a reader and an author.
Yes, there are times when a soft-line is pushed, but it is addressed throughout the story.Now to backtrack slightly-this series is NOT about BDSM.
Within the context of The Fifty Shades trilogy, a NDA (a non-disclosure agreement) and a Dom/Sub contract is a major premise that is addressed throughout the storyline.The Fifty Shades series is about a man with demons buried so deep he turns to BDSM for control.
Christian really proved his feelings for Ana through his words and actions throughout the entire book.
I must say, the look into Christian's mind at the end of book 3 was AMAZING.
I see the sweet element of his need to control Ana while also understanding that it's not healthy for either party.I secretly hoped for a smidge of a love triangle including Ethan, but then I realized that Christian would KILL Ethan and I decided against it.Overall, this is a highly addicting series- a grown-up version of Twilight, but with a much more realistic plot.
I love that Christian and Ana were based from Edward and Bella.
E.L. JAMES: ME:E.L.! HEY! High-five, giirrrrrl!Whoa. I missed.You'll probably want to ice that.Yeah! SO! I am so glad I ran into you! What a coincidence! This is only the fourth building I’ve tried, and I mean… I’ve only been riding the elevators for what, two? Three hours?E.L. JAMES: ME:You know what? DOESN’T matter.So listen… about the casting for the “Fifty Shades of Grey” movie? Yeah, I was just wondering if you received the six or seventeen audition tapes I sent over to all three of your ho
I missed.You'll probably want to ice that.Yeah!
Yeah, I was just wondering if you received the six or seventeen audition tapes I sent over to all three of your houses?E.L. JAMES:
ME:Because, and only very privileged people know this about me but uhh… I was really popular with the acting scene at my high school.
And my mom told me that I was THE best “Girl Holding Sword #4” she’s ever seen.
Not that I’m bragging or anything.E.L. JAMES:
ME:Also, you probably should cast Henry Cavill for Christian.
I just finished watching his “Man of Steel” movie… and he very literally told me that.
ME:I know, right?So. Yeah.
Book One: 2/51.So, this is what all the fuss was about.2.He says, Laters, baby *snort*3.Is it me or do they both sound English?4.I’m this close to smacking Ana silly with all her deep (but not really deep) asides re her Inner Goddess.
8.Can anyone get this Inner Goddess to shut up?9.When she went, “Well, you are one fucked-up son of a bitch.” I'm all, 'Why, yes, he is.'10.
Obviously, there’s a whole lot of sex.
I went into this knowing a good deal of what was going to take place (view spoiler)[(still though, period sex?
...these are all eloquent things you'll hear Ana say many times (many, many, many times) in her head throughout the books.
Ana and Christian fight, make up, have kinky sex.
Or...have kinky sex, fight, make up, make love.
And for about fifty pages (no pun intended), there's an actual story line.
There's definitely a damsel in distress/ white knight element to the trilogy, which is what I think kept me intrigued.
I think it really only deserves 2 stars.Oh!
Update: I kept looking at my original 3 star rating and thinking "that's too many!", so I've changed it to two...really only deserves 1.
Reading this novel was a bittersweet experience. I couldn’t get enough; I wanted to rush through this entire novel and absorb it all as quickly as possible. On the other hand, I wanted to take my sweet time and drag things out because I never wanted it to end. I’m devastated that this series wrapped up, and I have hopes (fingers crossed) that this won’t be the last we see of Christian Grey. I could read about Christian and Ana forever. (Christian may be the perfect man to star in a never-ending series. He seems to have enough issues.
Erotic love story....as reviewed possibly Mommy Porn.
I am a prude and do not share my bedroom things,etc....This book had an underlying story of two people learning to be a couple and not be independent.
He a past of a terrible early childhood, being adopted by a loving family, him being seduced at a young age, and then became a dominant sex gamer.
They both end up learning about themselves through each other and making it work!
Naturally I was intrigued and upon reading reviews was led to believe they were pure filth.
There is a lot more to the plot and to the characters.
They are brilliantly written that you get so involved and empathise with each of the main characters amazingly well!
Given the gist of the novels from other people I should have hated Christian Grey but by mid book 1 I loved him as much as Anastasia did!
All 3 were a marvellous, cannot-put-it-down, who-cares-if-I'm-late-for-work-this-is-more-important kind of read!
Highly recommended and to be fair I'd like to see a man read that without being effected at all.
I loved them :)
My mind has a completely different opinion of this series than my emotions, but the truth is that what really prevails for me here when I think about Fifty Shades are my emotions, not my mind.At this point I don't care about all the bad press, the good or bad reviews, the bad quality of the writing, that it shows an unhealthy relationship, that it can't really be called BDSM, that some people could misinterpret it and degrade woman because of it, that has too much or too little sex, or yada, yada, yada.
And then, if you're like me, you're wishing you didn't even have to read the third one, but you must (MUST!) because you have to believe that something--ANYTHING--good can come out of this mess of bad language, boring sex stories, and cardboard characters.
For one thing, the bad writing was so distracting it was difficult for me to hold onto what the story is actually ABOUT--which according to most fans of the series, is the love and healing that occurs between Anastasia and Christian.
After the interview, she just can't stop thinking of him and his "wry smile," but no matter because he shows up the next day at the hardware store where she works, ordering everyday things like yards of twine and axes.
So, living at the mansion, she now never sees her friends or family any more as they are too busy having S/M sex approximately 12 times a day but also because Christian is a total control freak and won't let her out of his sight.
But, there's something "different" about Ana, Christian feels.
I'm really not surprised that no matter how many times I read this books (5), I always get the same intense feelings and it just makes me love it more and more.
Since there has been enough said about this books I'll just do a few gifs that better describe my feelings about the Fifty Shades of Grey trilogy...Every time I'm going to start re-reading this books I get giddy...
Every time I read about my beloved Christian I get Goosebumps and totally flustered...
And finally for all of you who also love Christian Grey...
I not-so-secretly enjoyed them...The bad: These books are horribly written.
Besides the fact that writing is awful and I literally laughed out loud or blushed at times (and not at the sex...at the horrific dialouge), the plot (if you can call it that) is all over the place--James clearly isn't aware of a subplot works, how to seriously work out conflicts or find a climax (no pun intended).
And what this is really about--a good trashy read.
And yes, the woman goes from being a clumsy plain Jane to a high powered sex goddess (I won't even mention how James totally ripped off Meyer's Twilight b/c I think she's pretty honest in that regard admitting that this did start as fan fiction).
In that regard, I must give E.L. James credit, because she literally held nothing back, and I was certainly entertained, if not a bit flabbergasted by the level of f*cking that took place in this novel without the benefits of those little blue pills.Setting aside the teenage fantasy bit for a minute, the relationship between Christian Grey and Anastasia Steele was actually believable and intriguing, yet based on Christian’s propensity for subs and lack of ability to love, I did find it a bit comical that she broke up with him after three weeks or so because he wasn’t willing to profess his undying love and affection.
No way.""I shake my head, remembering my body bowed and wanting beneath his expert hands.""I shake my head in disbelief.""I shake my head at the screen, but figure I cannot continue to argue with him over e-mail.""I shake my head to reassure him.""I shake my head and stare out my window at the gray Seattle day, feeling forlorn.""I shake my head as I realize I need to start communicating.""I shake my head and clutch José’s hand.""I shake my head and clamber unsteadily to my feet.""I shake my head at him—he’s actually being serious?""I shake my head thinking about my mythical father."From Fifty Shades Freed:"I shake my head slowly, deliberately, trying to look as serious as possible.
Mostly though, I left the books feeling sad and angry that they've become so popular.
Sad and angry that so many women think the books are fantastic.
Sad and angry that the media is pimping them out as a way to bring sex back into marriages.
It's because these books portray a controlling, abusive relationship as one of love, and NO ONE IS TALKING ABOUT IT.
This is not a healthy, loving relationship, and I am sad and angry that we seem to have elevated it to the height of romance and allure.
After reading all three of the series I thought they were quite entertaining. If some minds think this erotica is "dirty" they do not have very advertureous minds.
I heard the controversy and to be honest you need to read it before you judge because it's all BS!It was HOT and had me cry twice in book two and fall for the characters- all of them)Christian is a broken man from a terrible childhood and Ana is an young woman who helps him grow and mend.
I can understand how much of America would have a difficult time with these books being sexually repressed as a society, but I found it very interesting to watch Ana grow into a woman in this series as an inexperienced woman yet not submissive as many may think. She experiences and stands her ground. She is open minded and explores where she sets her boundaries. It's a wonderful love story as well.
But listen, this is a fantasy, fiction where anything is possible..there is no impossibilities here..so if you are 27, gorgeous, rich…no a billionaire, you fly helicopters, gliders, feed the poor in Africa, wears the most incredible designer clothes, a body to die for, a sex fiend in bed – he’s smoldering..fabulicious never ending sex and in one go too, beyond fabulous gray eyes, a loving family, hot hot cars, owns an empire where he still finds lots of time to chase the woman he wants and write tons of emails to her, how can any woman in her right mind not want him!!!!!!!!
The characters were very one dimensional and the plot of the story was extremely weak.
Ana going from an innocent level headed virgin to a needy sex maniac in the space of a few days was totally unbelievable, and i felt very let down that her character turned out to be just another weak idiotic Bella type!
He is a controlling sick twisted jekyll and Hyde and i found it hard to be entertained by reading about a man who wants to anal fist, dominate or isolate a woman!
However, I think reading this trilogy was a waste of two weeks for me.
But without the “smut” it wouldn’t have been as exciting, or irresistible as it was - it just wouldn’t have been my Fifty Shades of fucked up (one of my favourite descriptors used by Ana the main female character).Because this is a compilation review of all three books, I am going to break down my review into small paragraphs about each book, and then my overall thoughts.Fifty Shades of Grey: I was a bit unsure about how I felt about this book at first.
But with Fifty Shades you want to know what happens in the end, you wish and hope that everything works out for the best and reading about Ana and Christians seductive journey is the best part!
As I also said about the character Anastasia, "Think Bella with a butt plug." This series really lowered the stretch bar (pun intended.) In my defense, when I wrote my review on Amo, I didn't know "50" was supposed to be fanfic.
Further in my defense, now that I know it's fanfic, it still sucks big bags.
I know she was actually comparing "his love of music" to his "beautiful but damaged soul, nope he's not really a psycho", which she is absolutely spot-on and freakin' hilarious, but the books (the one and a half that I was able to get down), did have an 80's, American Psycho feel for me.
One day said imaginary daughter will be old enough to choose her own books.
If on that day I catch her reading this crap I will take it away and ground her for life.
Its even worse because she acknowledges that he is a STALKER but its ok in the end because he is protecting her from other stalkers/crazies/big bad things and because he is secretly wounded but her love will cure him.I know the big controversy with this book is about the descriptions of BDSM.
I'm just happy I didn't spend any money to read these books.
Poorly written, corny and repetitive. Yet, I found myself hooked and finished all three books in less than three days. Guess, Cinderella story never gets old, huh? And mixed with erotica, the combination is quite a page turner, and not too mention arousing (if only the main woman character is not so frail, annoying and nagging). It's no Anais Nin or Erica Jong, but works as light escapism. Hot escapism.
LOVE, LOVE these books! I would love to find me my own Christian Grey! :)
Christian Grey es un villano memorable, repugnante y encantador a la vez, que por méritos propios merece un lugar en el Olimpo de los malvados literarios, junto a los mencionados Bateman, Lecter y otros tantos como Dracula, Mr. Hyde, Dorian Grey o el infame Profesor Moriarty.Tras 50 Sombras de Grey, ardo en deseos de conocer cual será la próxima joya que E.L. James traerá al mundo.
