https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/63689.The_Great_Railway_Bazaar
fucking waaaaah!Get over it, Paul.
(the answer probably has something to do with the fact that you're a Dickens fan, actually, but I digress).I can't believe that The Great Railway Bazaar -- this piece of excruciating chauvinistic, Cold War, holier-than-thou trash -- is one of the essential works of travel literature.
Silly me for thinking that travel literature was supposed to be about the the joy of flirting with something beyond my experience, enjoying other people enjoying life, but what do I know?
Maybe the whole world does suck, just as you say, and the only good travel literature is that which is misanthropic.If that's the case, Mr. Theroux...YOU are the master.
In the end curiosity got the better of me and I grabbed an audio copy of perhaps his best known book.Set in 1973 (but released in 1975) it tells the story of his travels to and across Asia.
There is a secondary purpose to the travel as he eludes to a number of lectures he delivers in various cities along the way, though no background to or coverage of these events is included.The train journeys are mostly long affairs and he has booked sleeping cars which he’s usually required to share with a mixed bag of companions.
The section of the journey I enjoyed most was his travel through India, which takes up the central part of the book.
oh dear, yes, he's observant and turns a pretty phrase on every page, makes you laugh, etc.
but he's so contemptuous of everyone he comes across i lost interest.
skipped all the trains between india and the soviet union.
he really loses it at the end and addresses all the russians he meets on the trans siberian railway as monkeys.
granted, i have now been in a similar situation, far from home in bleak surroundings at christmastime, like theroux on the trans siberian, homesick and irritated by everything and everyone, even contemptuous, but i can't imagine writing as theroux does, with no apology or introspection.
Mas como tenho um fraquinho por comboios, e muitos dos livros do Paul Theroux têm comboios nas capas, decidi escolher um para experimentar: O Grande Bazar Ferroviário que foi o primeiro relato de viagens de Theroux.
Não visita os locais turísticos, e quase todo o relato paisagístico é sobre o que vê das janelas do comboio e nas estações onde faz o transbordo.
A grande riqueza desta viagem assenta nos diálogos que Theroux estabelece com as dezenas de pessoas com que se cruza; os habitantes dos locais e outros passageiros.
Trinta anos depois, Theroux faz a mesma viagem, relatada em Comboio Fantasma para o Oriente.
But the author himself comes across as a stupid, rude and horrible person who abuses random people, makes snide remarks, plays practical jokes on helpful locals, and in general appears quite slap-worthy.
American excuses for the Vietnam war, obvious disgust with hippies, anti-Russian sentiment, implying that Japanese politicians strive to be like Churchill but would never achieve it, are more examples of the author's stupidity.
Why should a Japanese politician aspire to be like Churchill anyway?The author's ridiculous behaviour spoilt what could have been a great novel.
At the very least, he could have made some effort to keep his disgusting behaviour out of the book.
So yes, I was full of happy anticipation as I sat down to read The Great Railway Bazaar, this book sure to be full of just the kinds of things I wanted to read about.
Also, the travails of the constant traveller are instructive, sometimes humorous, such as his never-ending search for food in a world that seems bent on making it difficult.
This book ends up being much less about the railway bazaar itself and much more about the narrator.
If I have to spend a few hundred pages crammed in a railway compartment with a fellow traveler, can't I expect him to be a little more pleasant?
In fact he seemed rather uninterested in talking to anyone who wasn't already like him, but only wrote about the people who weren't!
He does mention why trains are perfect settings for conversations with strangers:"The conversation, like many others I had with people on trains, derived an easy candor from the shared journey, the comfort of the dining car, and the certain knowledge that neither of us would see each other again.
This is in 1973, and a lot of political upheaval has happened since then, so I'm still looking forward to reading Ghost Train to the Eastern Star where he revisits the same journey 30 years later.
I really want to take this exact 1975 series of train journeys - I mean who wouldn't -  The Orient Express , The Golden Arrow ,  The Trans-Siberian  but I can't even make it out of France with this obnoxious, Eurocentric, Chablis swilling, ..... I know its a travel classic but its terribly pretentious. Abandoned for Bill Bryson.
In this 1975 bestseller, Paul Theroux, an American author, recounts his four-month journey by train in 1973 from London through Europe, the Middle East, the Indian subcontinent, Southeast Asia, ending in the Soviet Union.
He mentions taking detailed notes in his journal, but there are so many vivid details about all the sights and sounds and especially the people he sees and talks to along the way that he must have enjoyed indulging in some fiction writing practices based on longstanding travel writing traditions, starting with Herodotus, and including countless others such as Dickens and Mark Twain, both of which Theroux mentions.
And although Theroux seems to enjoy very few of his stopovers, he feels compelled to travel and to sample these places.
And as the book progresses, you feel the main aspect of the book change from a simple travel book to a more sophisticated portrait of a man with a weird obsession and a hankering for home.Theroux's writing is always humorous and littered with snappy insights and literary interludes.
But he never strays too far from the paradox of this book; Theroux has travelled so he could write the book, and written the book so that he could travel.
In theory nothing is more romantic than a long voyage aboard a train.
The biggest complaint from others I noticed with this book is apparent negativity and rudeness displayed by the author as he traverses through Central and East Asia to Japan, and making a return trip through Russia.
Some of his stories are comical (like his endeavors to ditch a strange train companion in Russia), and some are tragic (the vignettes of futile attempts by Vietnamese government to attract tourism at the end of the war).
I find Theroux a little cynical, yet sensitive to his surroundings, and more at ease with solitude than his fellow man.
Set in 1973, the colonial hangover comes along as an undertone for the entire journey, though his connections do open doors, leading to some not-so-easily-accessible sights and experiences.
As a travel freak myself, this book was much anticipated, given that it's near the top on many a list for travel books.
While I wouldn't say I was let down badly, the book could have been awesome with some sensible and sensitive guidance from the editor.
I'm not too taken with Theroux the person, if this book is anything to go by, though Theroux the writer is still good enough for me to chance some of his later works (by when he's hopefully become a little more world-wise).
But his selectiveness is somewhat disturbing, especially in the short shrift he gives to all of the (then) Soviet Union, a 6000-mile train trip that earns a scant 40 pages in a book of nearly 350.
He will take on no obligation to guide you through the lands he visits.As I have noted before in a review of a Theroux travel book, he is a rather discontented traveler, not at all what one would call the cheerful transient.
It shows all the effort, the trouble, the fear, the discomfort, the cost, the worry - all the unpleasantness about travel - but at the same time shows why people want to travel despite it all.
Not that I would travel like Paul Theroux traveled to write this book.
It's not even what you would think of as a travel book, since most of the time he sees very little of the countries he travels through.
I think if I tried to read it now I wouldn't read it cover to cover - I'd just flip though the chapters looking for differences!
Um mundo em movimento e parado ao mesmo tempo, como uma viagem de combóio.
Foi uma experiência rica ler tanta cultura, daquela cultura que se sente nos pormenores.Este não é um livro sobre países nem paisagens, antes um livro sobre pessoas, sobre o modo como vivem e o modo como são escritas e descritas.
Alimenta a alma e sobretudo o desejo de ler sobre a mesma viagem que fez 30 anos depois e está escrita sob "combóio-fantasma para o Oriente".

While there are many varieties of travel narratives, Paul Theroux in The Great Railway Bazaar takes the reader in a somewhat different direction, for this author's travel books are in many ways more self-reflective than they are descriptive of the places he is passing through.
Rather, his vantage point is always that the journey is the goal, not the destination, not the specific conveyance (other than by train of course) & not necessarily the intersections with memorable folks met along the way, unless of course they are famous authors or people who just happen to be reading one of his books.
great tale
Written in 1975, Theroux traveled for four months by train from London across Europe, the Middle East, India, Southeast Asia to Japan, and then back to London along the 6000 mile Trans Siberian Railway.
Theroux managed by luck to be in Iran just before the Shah fall, in South Vietnam within months of it finally falling to the north after the US had left.
That said, he remains a judgmental person who dismisses places and people for sometimes arbitrary reasons, but this book is an incredibly engaging read, and he captures the fatigue of traveling in the humid subcontinent and on the unending trip back across the Soviet Union.
It took me over 40 days to complete this book and I was so glad when it ended.
Also, because I was frustrated I was taking so much time and I hadn't finished any book in 2016.
I loved the India and Vietnam chapters, they were a treat to read.
Overall, this travelogue was amazing and a special one because I love train journeys as well.
This makes taking so much time worth it (almost).
And what made this even more special was that I ended it right before I stepped off the train.
Not seldom have I read a book that made me want to go new places.But, Theroux impersonates the saying that "the journey is the destination" in a way that almost urges me to catch the first train to wherever.He is taking you on a train-acid-trip that is hard to topple, harshly distilling the stops between London and Japan via Sri Lanka to anecdotes and observations.
A great read -- no review here, but will comment when I've read (soon) Ghost Train..., which is The Great Railway Bazaar redux, 30 years later.
The complaints have ranged from the lighting and cooling in the trains – it’s always either too bright or too dark; the weather outside – it’s either too sunny and hot or too rainy and cold; to the food – there’s never any food, when there is food it tastes bad, he doesn’t get alcohol in the dining cars in Muslim countries and has to eat local food (fried birds) in a tiny station in Burma; to authorities – being asked for his passport at immigration or any other questions about his travel he sees as an unnecessary invasion into his God-given right to travel wherever he pleases, as does having to pay bribes to do what are otherwise illegal things; and fellow-passengers – most of the men are generally described as obnoxious, most of the women as beautiful but brainless.Which brings me to the second point – white male shitfuckeryA year ago, I stopped reading white male authors.
Poi aereo fino al Giappone e da lì di nuovo treno, con la Transiberiana per il gran finale.
Il libro è una dichiarazione d'amore per il treno, unico mezzo di trasporto che consente di conoscere luoghi e persone.
Paul Theroux è molto simpatico e ironico, non ci nasconde i suoi momenti di scoramento e gli incontri anche sgraditi, le pagine scorrono piacevoli e mai noiose.Ho letto questo libro quasi tutto in treno, peccato che il mio tragitto sia molto meno poetico e molto più ripetitivo.
Kiedy patrzę na datę rozpoczęcia czytania przeze mnie tej ksiązki (czerwiec 2017), nie dziwię się, czemu zajęło mi to tyle czasu. Książka napisana jest w taki sposób, że po niespełna rocznej przerwie, otwieram ją w połowie i mogę czytać dalej. Jest ciekawym doświadczeniem, bo opowiada urywki historii poznanych w podróży koleją współpasażerów, na niczym szczególnym się jednak nie skupiając. To pamiętnik z podróży, choź brakujw mi tu głębszych refleksji autora, po których mogłabym obdarzyć go większą sympatią. Autora nie jestem w stanie polubić przez całą książkę, doceniam jednak jego szczerość i prawdziwość, z jaką dzieli się przemyśleniami.
I thus interrupted my current naval reading theme with the quick read of a famous and excellent travel book: The Great Railway Bazaar: by train through Asia by Paul Theroux (ISBN-10: 0618658947, originally published in 1975).My husband and I have a work trip to Bangalore later this month so the description of train travel in India was particularly of interest; however, Theroux's chapters about travelling in Viet Nam in 1973 just before America withdrew were fascinating and sadly in line with current events.
"Phương Đông lướt ngoài cửa sổ", với tôi, là một trải nghiệm đọc khó khăn, một cá tính mà tôi mất rất nhiều tâm sức để chấp nhận và đi đến trang cuối.
Ngay cả những mẩu hội thoại trên tàu, dù trên bề mặt rất êm xuôi, nhưng trong lòng, ông chưa bao giờ tìm được sự gắn kết thực sự.Dù óc quan sát và ngòi bút miêu tả khiến cho cảnh vật sinh động, tôi vẫn thấy tác phẩm thiếu mất phần tình.
Imagine cruising from London through Paris, Turkey, Iran, Afghanistan, Pakistan, India, Thailand, Japan, Siberia and back to London on nothing but trains for commute - long journeys punctuated with local food, local people, local culture and local weather - only to be bored to death while Theroux keeps on heaping loads of details without any insight save some common (sometimes aptly true) stereotypes.Terse, dry and disinterested in tone, the book left me absolutely cold - series of abrupt, sketchy descriptions of peoples, places, anecdotes and observations that never go beyond a stereotypical crystallization of narrow experiences blended with the common perception held across the globe.Essentially, Theroux said he wanted to travel by train, not by plane - so that he could leisurely enjoy the journey - my bad that I did not take it seriously.
Show Dont Tell. There are descriptions instead of conversations, there is scorn (and racism maybe) instead of understanding, acidic snobbery instead of empathy and a lot of whining.Even Naipaul was harsh in his criticism, but here the criticism extends to making fun of people's appearance too. Surprisingly, the author undertook the same journey around 35 years later and I have read that book Ghost Train to the Eastern Star and liked it very much. Maybe he improved later but then "The Great Railway Bazaar" is considered a classic ! A White Man's Classic maybe.
The vast majority of travel writing is bullshit, unreadable trash written by pretentious windbags about their supposedly "unique" experiences...But Paul Theroux pulls it off. Perhaps it's shitty of me to say this, but he does an awfully good job of vocalizing my own misanthropic perspective better than I ever could. I suppose that makes me no better than a Rush Limbaugh listener, but oh well, it's cathartic, especially when one is moping around through Thailand and Burma. It's also good to know that backpackers were just as obnoxious in the mid-70s as now.
