https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/783128.The_7_Habits_of_Highly_Effective_Families
He is one of those rare people -- I have known two or three in my life -- with the facility of clear thinking, who intuitively understand cause and effect, and therefore act in such a way as to produce the desired outcome.
it's not because we want to hurt ourselves and those around us, it's because we don't understand how to 'begin with the end in mind', to think clearly about where we want to go and chalk out our flight plan to get there.
If you're a confused mortal wondering why nothing works out the way you want it to, read this book!
but you'll still get enough out of the book to make you glad you read it.
Written using the same principles that were introduced in the bestselling "The Seven Habits of Highly Effective People," Stephen Covey applies The Seven Habits to the family using personal, family, and others' experiences to illustrate each concept.
I've only read a chapter or two of the first Seven Habits book, and so I enjoyed not only learning about the Seven Habits, but how they apply to the family.
I loved the illustrating stories and the personal insights that Dr. Covey, his wife, his family, and others shared to help the reader learn how to apply the principles.
From my vantage the real value of the book comes in the first few chapters when Covey explores the stimulus-pause-response cycle.
He spends a good amount of time on the family business plan: putting together a real document that outlines a family’s core principles, priorities, and goals.
I was impressed that Covey stresses that this is not something that is to be churned out in a weekend by dad – it’s not a rule book.
He cautions that everyone in the family must be able to take the time they need to think hard about how they and their desires fit into the family.
When I do a reread, as I should, I will read the paper or e-version.That said, it was a sound book with a lot of good suggestions.
We are actively working on our family dynamics so that we can bring our a-game in anticipation of another child, and this book gave my husband and I a lot of good talking points.
I think that's the key to any self-help book like this: you're not going to change just from reading them, but you'll walk away with ideas and things to discuss with your partner, and that's where the change slowly seeps in.
I really liked 7 Habits of Highly Effective People, and in the context of families it makes even more sense.
7 Habits:1: Use your agency/be proactive.
Use the pause button to use 4 gifts.2: Begin with the end in mind (personal, spouse, family motto/creed).3: Put first things first (one-on-one time, family nights).4.
Seek first to understand, then to be understood.5.
He has taken certain practices/principles of the LDS church and made them available to a general audience and made a fortune.My favorite take away: the Emotional Bank Account; every interaction with a member of your family can either be a deposit or a withdrawal.
Not because the content was bad, just because it was very...dense.
I think, honestly, it could've done with quite a few less stories and examples, and there were definitely times I felt like though something was quite interesting, it wasn't really necessary.
Making the important (not urgent) a priority in our life.I would definitely recommend this book to anyone that is a part of a family, wants to have a family, or interacts with people.
Definitely worth having in your tool bag.(P.S. I like how for our premarital counseling we were required to read several books that were no where near the quality of this.
This book is the same content as The Seven Habits of Highly Effective People, but with a particular emphasis and examples relating to families.
I loved how it taught about teaching your children resposibility and how a parent can help most effectively while still letting your children learn.
I am glad I read this book now as a fairly new parent because it has already made several things easier and I feel like a much better parent.
Although Thom did not read this specific book, he has read The Seven Habits of Highly Effective People and so we have had many good discussions on parenting techniques and what works for us.
I liked the overall message in this, but with me being such a raging cynic, I struggled with execution. I listened to the audio and it turned me off. It felt like a "let's hold hands - kumbaya fest". I don't know what it is, but that kind of thing gets my hackles up. However, in spite of the cynic within, I did find that this book has some practical applications for strengthening families and how to keep things on a positive note. Keeping the end result in mind, was something I wholeheartedly agree with....particularly when it comes to discipline.
I don't know how this book got on my kindle, but I am glad that I took the time to read it.
I really like how this book starts out by talking about how we are off course 90% of the time in the family, and we must constantly work to get things back on track.
This is a great reference book and one that I want to get my hands on so that I can write in it, highlight it, and make notes.
I highly recommend this book to everyone, single, married or otherwise.
The 7 Habits are the same, don't change. He just adapts the concepts to family life. The idea is to build a Highly effective family culture. I really enjoyed it and found some great concepts to implement at home right away.
Excellent! This is the book that inspired us to write our family mission statement.
There is some good stuff here about adapting the habits to family life, but the book has three large flaws.
I understand the thing about people needing to hear things seven times to get it but this doesn't work well in a book.
Second, Covey has very clear biases in favor of the traditional model where the wife stays home and the husband works (and of course same-sex couples don't exist in this world).
In a world where most mothers work, he gives no attention to how that changed a family.
The mom had a miscarriage while they were home alone but she subverted her feelings when her daughter found her in the bathroom.
I'm very impressed with this book and anticipate that it will have a positive impact on the culture of my young family.
I purchased the book after having a discussion with my husband about family mission statements.
Our son was a year old at the time, and we felt compelled to approach our young family with deliberateness and intentionality.
Mostly I'm excited for when we sit down and write our Family Mission Statement which will determine the culture in which our children live.
Covey targeted several troubled areas families face having children, and, or struggles with personal growth and positive productively with focus on ideas of mediated hope, inspiration, and faith pursuing all that which is granted to those who strive for healthy relationships.
A task that takes little effort, and plenty rewards.I recommend this book for prospective parents, parents, guardians, caretakers of children, or anyone who cares enough about our young people who may struggle with peer pressure, abuse, self identify, drugs, alcohol, unruly behavior, rebelliousness, and other obstacles that can obstruct them from becoming productive members of self first.
To summarize, the 7 habits are as follows: (1) Be proactive rather than reactive; (2) Establish a written family mission statement and written family values; (3) Make family your top priority; (4) Try to create "win-win" scenarios; (5) Seek first to understand, then to be understood; (6) "Synergize", or put all of these together; and (7) "Sharpen the saw", or continually renew yourself and your family physically, mentally, socially, and emotionally.
Numerous anecdotes throughout the book, which are shared by Covey, his family members, and others, provide excellent illustration of the 7 habits.
I think the book has some really good information in it and lots of helpful stories.
However, in the books defense, I had previously read parts and pieces of the book, which helped make the material less useful.
Also, I believe Dale Carnegies book covers much of the same material in far fewer words.
That said, it is a good book with many useful family specific stories and the information truly is powerful and potentiall life changing personally and for a family.
I would guess that many would find it useful and would recommend anyone to read it if you're interesting in keeping your marriage strong, family strong, and all the individual relationships.
I definitely want the type of family he describes and am excited to start a plan with my hubby to make it happen.
To me they give specific examples of how I can apply the 7 habits in my life...which is often lacking in self-help books that are too general.I recommend that every person who is part of a family read this book!!
(you'll want to read this one too.
My husband started the audio version and even though it says it's unabridged...it doesn't have everything the book has, which to me, is abridged).
The things that stands out to me the most in this book is the bit written by Covey's wife, talking about finally "getting" what is important about family life as she is breastfeeding their 8th child, and examples of how they addressed various family crises and decisions with their kids.They must have been so busy, with 8 kids and him on the road, yet they kept in mind the importance of balance between family, me time, their marriage and his career.Really liked the toolkit as he explains for what worked for them and how to apply it.The "family meetings" are a good concept in theory but would be difficult / ?
But in terms of laying out a formula for maintaining balance within the busy-ness of family life, well worth a read and to refer back to.
This book should be entitled "The applications of the 7 habits of highly effective people to families", but then it would not have become a top-seller.
In general it would be easier for individuals who have mastered or trying to master the 7 habits to apply them to domestic matters.
A man / woman / father/ mother that boasts positive outlook will most likely increase the happiness of a house.
Having said that, it contains valuable lessons from harmonious families across generations.
Like any other self-help techniques, however, significant effort and perseverance is to be spent to develop these habits.
Will re-read this book later on.
Covey makes a good argument for taking courage to change important things in our lives, and gives great direction in how to implement his 7 habits.
If you've also read his other 7 Habits book, don't be deceived into thinking you know all there is to know about the subject.
This book takes a different approach and is very much focused on the family.
However, it takes the commitment of an individual to make a change.
It's truly a life changing event to read and consider this book.
This was a great book!
I've (Kim) read The 7 Habits Of Highly Effective People as well, so I think my expectations of the book were maybe a little different than what the book actually was.
However, we both loved this book!
We're one step closer to building our family the way we would like for it to be.
This book had lots of great ideas and examples.
In fact, Trent and I were so inspired, we sat down and wrote our family mission statement.
We had a great time doing it, and we are going to frame it and have it hanging in our home.
Again, another great book from Stephen Covey.
It took me a while to read, as I'd have to stop and think about what was just said, and ponder on how I'm doing with my family.
Lots of great examples and stories to illustrate the principles of the 7 Habits, and suggestions on how to use each chapter with your family.
The focus on the family is foundational to improving society in general, and the principles shown in this book will help you work with your family in creating this change.
about having family traditions and really listening to family members (aka kids)very good, easy to read, learn and applyLike a step by step strength training for families that we can adapt and grow with as our family changes.
Definitely easier to digest than the 7 Habits for Highly Effective People...love the teen and kid versions too.
Opens good conversations with our children, so we can all grow a healthy family together.Now I understand why/how Thoughts lead to Feelings,Feelings lead to Beliefs,Beliefs lead to Actions,Actions lead to Results,Results lead to Thoughts,and Thoughts again lead to Feelings,etc...interesting cycle in the stories of our lives.
Stephen Covey can take something like "paying attention to your children is a good idea," and end up taking credit for inventing the notion, or make it sound like it's something that only church-goers can do properly. I could not get past the Covey family's faith-based smarmy tone, and much of the data in this book is now outdated. There were a couple interesting facts, like the bit about how the home and work have switched places as far as venues for adult relaxation, and a scenario that might work for getting kids to take on responsibility for yard-maintenance.
It only took me two years to finish this book since I got stuck on page 97. But once I started reading again in late June 2014; I understood WHY this book and Stephen Covey's more notable one, The 7 Habits of Highly Effective People, is well-cited in business and parenting circles. Covey's principles are applicable today. This is not a light read but this will be a reference I will definitely return to time and time again.
For those who read The 7 habits for highly effective people, this is much more extracted version for members in family. The book is full of different stories and examples, which for some reason was killing the wonderful experience I got from "People" book. Yet Stephen R. Covey is one of the best authors in this area of human development globally.I hope if Covey could create much more briefed version!
For those who read The 7 habits for highly effective people, this is much more extracted version for members in family. The book is full of different stories and examples, which for some reason was killing the wonderful experience I got from "People" book. Yet Stephen R. Covey is one of the best authors in this area of human development globally.I hope if Covey could create much more briefed version!
7 Habits of Highly Effective families follows the same principals as the Highly Effective people. I think it's a great book even if you read it as a refresher motivator to keep your home life functional and happy.
I re-read it after 6 years and surprised to find updates. I guess I missed to understand few of the concepts which I found as i re-read.. or may be i forgot those... it was a nice experience and the reading was very fast...
Good general advise, but way too short.
