https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/104191.Please_Understand_Me
If you wonder WHY not HOW, examine those middle modalities.The book was instructive in some ways, despite these flaws; in particular, I found the sections on temperaments in childhood and development very useful and accurate relative to my own observations and conclusions.
I changed my assessments of various people's types based on these two sections, and I feel I now have a better understand of the modalities themselves, as well as how they combine.My next goal is to pursue the earlier, Jungian analysis in formal textual detail, because I suspect I will find that much more useful and illuminating.
The follow-up, Please Understand Me II, is the big seller, but this one is almost the same thing.
But it is PROFOUNDLY SATISFYING (especially after a rough time) to look up your own profile and that of others around you and figure out why you are the way you are.
You'll be exclaiming, "It's SO TRUE!!" over and over again.I recommend it to everyone on the planet - even if you only look at your own combination of drives and tendencies, you'll have a much more comprehensive understanding of the smaller society in which you live.
The cognitive function approach to personality allows for greater flexibility and complexity, and I think that makes it more useful.There is one section in this book that I recommend: Temperament in Children.
I think it may be helpful to parents, teachers, and anyone else who works with children.
The temperament approach makes sense for children because cognitive functions usually do not become clear until an older age, but different temperaments can be recognized at an early age.Skip the section on "Mating and Temperament"; it is drivel, and clearly dates this work with its stereotyped notion of gender.
I'm good enough, I'm smart enough, and doggone it, people like me!*****"INFJs can intuit good and evil in others, although they seldom can tell how they came to know. Subsequent events tend to bear them out, however.""[INFJs:] are masters of the metaphor, and both their verbal and written communications tend to be elegant and complex."
Favourite of 2018 so far. I especially enjoyed the "Temperament in Children" and "Temperament in Leading" sections which covered the learning, teaching, and managerial styles of the various temperaments. I found it helpful that the temperaments were grouped in 4 categories: SP, SJ, NT, and NF--that really stuck with me, whereas dominant vs. auxiliary functions never did. If you have an interest in MBTI, give this a gander.
Being incredibly creative with a rich and mystical inner life, we have trouble connecting with people on a personal level, and even figuring ourselves out.
Being private people, we are sociable and talkative, but very rarely express our true thoughts and feelings.
This book provides a wonderful analysis into the sixteen personality archetypes, and offers a guide to how each function in various aspects of life, work, and love.
I do, however, wish it did provide a deeper look into the arch types and focused more heavily on the possible interactions and interpersonal relationships.
I first read it in the late 80s, and it has remained one of the most influential books in my life.
I've found very few areas of life where it does not apply.
It has been most helpful & interesting in interpersonal relationships, professional situations, & understanding a lot of religious & political differences & phenomena among individuals who otherwise share families, cultures, geographic spaces, goals, or interests.
It's fascinating.
I never tire of discussing it, although I've tired many others by discussing it.
In fact, one can see temperaments express themselves in their different responses to the book's ideas & how they are presented.
This book is wonderful! Take the quiz at the front of the book at find out which "type" you are. I'm an INFJ. I have a bad habit of labeling people based on this book... I should probably stop doing that, but it is helpful when trying to understand someone who isn't like you. The book has also helped me recognize some of my own strengths and weaknesses.
Personality is one dimension of psychology that is both interesting and practical. In the classic book “Please Understand Me” by Keirsey and Bates, there is support for the research conducted by Myers-Briggs. One immediate gain you will get is a self-test (non-computerized) that is easy to grade. Once your ‘type’ is identified, you can read about your tendencies and preferences.This book is recommended for:• Improving family relationships • Getting along better with the opposite sex • For sales
In the classic book “Please Understand Me” by Keirsey and Bates, there is support for the research conducted by Myers-Briggs.
Once your ‘type’ is identified, you can read about your tendencies and preferences.This book is recommended for:•	Improving family relationships •	Getting along better with the opposite sex •	For sales / business people who would like to learn how to influence others This is the book that popularized the term “extrovert and introvert.” Most people believe that an Extrovert can be identified as a social person.
A great application of “Please Understand Me” is taking the Myers-Briggs personality test and comparing types.
They were joking (sort of self-referentially, since there were a couple of this type at the dinner table) about the impractical geniuses that seem pretty over-represented in th field.
These are the ones that are called "nerds" in the schools and they often develop their intellectual skills at the expense of social and practical skills because that's the only way they see of coping in the school system.
And social and practical skills don't seem all that important to them, anyway.They AREN'T the same as the ones who recite the facts and quote authorities, necessarily.
No, this book celebrates our personality differences and how we all contribute something unique to our families, workplaces, and society.I've taken the Myers-Briggs at least 3 times over the course of my life (all in school situations), and my type has remained firmly fixed.
On a personal level, I find these temperament types most applicable to work situations, and I wish all workplaces would offer this test to those who want to take it and then have a discussion about the results, particularly as I feel it encourages more understanding and acceptance among the different types.
This is my go-to book on how to learn and cope with all kinds of people. Very helpful for educators, parents, and people who just don't GET various personality aspects of others. I have read it at least 2.5 times and have several copies. I have taught a course on personality types at work and have used the testing matrix in the front of the book to have course participants gain a better understanding of who they are. One of the best NF books I've ever read!
Very interesting and insightful. It relies on the Myers-Briggs typing. It will help me to understand others. I am INTJ. I have always known that I am an introvert, but I wasn't aware of the NTJ part. The book goes into a lot of detail such as mating and temperaments, children in temperament, and temperament in leading. I would recommend this book for people wanting to understand why people behave as they do.
For anyone who is familiar with the Myers-Briggs tests this book helps to become more self-aware and to understand people around you. After you answer the questions and count your scores there are Four main Temperaments based on Ancient Greek Mythology and 16th Types that based on four pairs of Preferences. You read your description and the end result is amazing.
This is my go to book whenever I have difficulty understanding peoples differences. Myself being an INFP. It delves into how we can work together and see where our weaknesses are as well as are strengths.I have seen people turn their lives around once they seen that their is nothing "wrong" with themselves , their just different (variety is the spice of life).
ENFJ here to say that this book is extraordinary. It's like someone read my deepest most personal unexplainable thoughts and was able to put them into words. I know am able to understand how I get myself into these awful situations (not that I'm going to be able to change it) and why I never like to be alone. I am actually a 100% extrovert and I have to say this book is all around fantastic.
A wonderful book on understanding and accepting people. He helps explain what makes different personalities tick, and does so in a clear, common sense way.
I can't believe that I have never added this to my Goodreads list.
I read it around 1990, and it became such a part of me that I think I stopped thinking of it as a book!
This book changed how I thought of myself and others.
It has probably helped me with self-acceptance more than any other book simply because it gave me a ways to talk about how I never seemed to fit with my parents.
I love the Meyers-Briggs Type indicator and this book started it all for me!
My mother is a people person.
As a kid, I was just as happy staying home on weekends to read my books as I was playing outside with my best friends.
Maybe I was having troubles with friends?
She finally spoke to my best friend's mother about her observations, and this book and a fond smile were the answers she got.
Turns out my mother and I have about as different personalities as you can get.
But since the introduction of Please Understand Me (which is aptly named), my mother stopped worrying about it and allowed me to grow into my own person.
People are too complex to fit into a box.
I can literally identity with all of the "personalities" at different times of my life.
Sometimes I like being around people, sometimes I want space.
People's personalities are not so simple they can fit into sixteen types.
To believe so, really limits us.
I use to believe solidly in this book, only to grow older and realize how much I change, even in a single day!
And through that knowledge, I realize, these are just silly tests to box people into groups when really there can be much, much more to a person!
Learned SO much about the differences in temperaments -- it gives me a whole new language to communicate with regarding MBTI. I enjoyed learning about the temperaments in leading and in childhood, a great juxtaposition of how the temperaments display themselves throughout life. If you're interested in using MBTI as a foundational language to understand those you lead, parent, or work with, I highly recommend this book.
I admit, I've read this book more often than a person should ever read a book. I have to say, it was really a lifeline when I was younger; my personality was very confusing to me (and everyone else) and it was really amazing to have a little sense made of it. This book just has to be taken with a grain of salt. No one perfectly fits every description in this book... it is simply a springboard to understanding who you are and understanding those around you.
Very much like the Myers-Briggs and the Enneagram testing and profiles.I answered the questions, added up my numbers, looked up my type and was of course stunned at how accurate the results are - once again confirming who I am in the world. I read the whole book and found myself guessing at which of my friends and associates were which combination of types. The teaching and learning sections were really interesting. I'm an INFP by the way.
First read 36 years ago. Was mind bending then. I found it in my mother's small book collection. Typed myself and was fascinated with self discovery ever since. Found my new spouse were exact opposites! Typed all family members with questionnaire, others I met, on airplanes, etc, by questions I came up with, and used to hire employees. Successfully to form dynamic top producing teams. Go back to it occasionally and always get new insights. Jung is the man!
A dear friend reintroduced this to me years after I first heard of the Keirsey Temperament Sorter. Once my interest had been re-piqued, I took the quiz and read the book in one weekend. Introvert or Extrovert? Ruled by iNtuition or Senses? A Thinker or a Feeler? Judger or Perceiver? As an ENFJ, nothing is more gratifying than self discovery. Maybe that's why I love LOVED this book.
XNTJ - what's your sign?Fun book, one I initially read in a corporate team building class. Another thing, woman love this stuff. If a woman has taken thistest, you've got a great conversation starter, you don't have tohope she's a Leo, and it may neverend. For some reason they are fascinated with the categorizationof people.
I think this is a great book in trying to understand where others are coming from. To understand WHY we have hard times communicating with some people and not others and how we can adjust to their styles. Highly recommend
Reading this for work--need those learning points
I recall that the first time I took an MBTI exam was during in high school, where each of the personalities were divided into different fruits.
Ultimately, we are just different from each other.Keirsey concludes that once we accept that certain people are fundamentally different from each other, we no longer have a compulsion to change them to our image and likeness.
I can't make others in my image and likeness, and it is only in my maturity (high time, as I'm approaching 30) that I realized, I really don't want to.
If you are a person that is good with plots and don't have a clue about people and characters, this book could help fill out characters, but overall this book is written more for employees, employees and parents to help understand other people.
I think it could work in fiction but, maybe it's the year it was published in but some of the things seemed more of a stretch when it comes to reality.
Come to think of it, when searching for fictional characters, an astrology book might be just the place to look.
