https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/38568.A_Quick_Bite
This was a pretty good read for the first book in the series. A little slow, I started to get a little bored a few times but over all enjoyable.
PROS: - A few solid ideas (like the anemia thing in the beginning).- Great opening.CONS: - Cringe-worthy writing.- Hasn't been proofread/edited enough; too many errors.- Terrible at foreshadowing; Chekhov's gun much?- Thesaurus abuse and neglect.- Very little "showing" and too much "telling".- After page 13, the story dipped.- Poor character development and male protagonist is a moron.- Too many useless minor characters.- Story was as bland as the characters.- Trying too hard.- Obvious villain was obvious.- No chemistry between Greg and Lissianna (love interest and protag respectively).- Misogynistic, sexist, and objectifying.- Cringe-worthy dialogue.COMMENTS: Let me preface this by saying that I love porn, smut, and sex.
I think I read this one a looong time ago. GRINLynsay
Concerned about her future, her mother Marguerite decides to give Lissi "the best birthday gift ever": Dr. Greg Hewitt, a 35-year-old psychologist who specializes in phobias.
Marguerite is sure he'll be able to cure Lissi's phobia so she can leave a "normal" vampire life.From the awkward moment they meet, Greg and Lissi feel attracted to each other, but nothing good can come out of it because (1) she's a vampire, (2) he's a mere mortal and (3) he'll have his memory erased as soon as he cures her phobia.
It’s not the worst of phobias, you’d think, but Lissi is a vampire, so this phobia makes her life extremely difficult.
Vampires don’t feed the old-fashioned way anymore, they use bagged blood.
Though the origin of the vampires is very interesting and unique, I expected more from the story: more humor, more steam, more action, and a much better developed romance: true life mates – oh, come on… haven’t we heard this enough?
Of course, this book was published more than ten years ago, and by now the destined mate thing has got old.
All in all, it’s not bad, but I don’t think I’ll continue the series for now.
I know I may talk a little more than is healthy normal about the coming robot apocalypse.
It's just that I don't think people are taking this whole robots-are-going-to-kill-us-all thing seriously enough.
Because this vampire world has the best explanation for the existence ever - nano robots in their bloodstream.
It's part of the master plan that all robots have!I knew it!!!So, although the romance was okay, but a little bland because the two main characters were about as exciting as milk (NOT chocolate milk).
I loved the world where tiny micro-robots were the real killers.I also loved the Argeneau family and their dynamics, so I will continue this series happily.
The robots have gotten to me.
I have so many new series to read cos of developing a love for yet another romance genre, but I have to say this will be one of my favourite series if they are all the same as this.
I am completely new to this genre and it's all fantasy/paranormal/romance to me anyway, so if the book is entertaining and keeps me reading I'm not too hung up on the details of their 'world' as it's all make-believe anyway.
I thought the whole phobia thing was hilarious, but would have liked to have seen it resolved (not sure if it is in upcoming books??).
A Quick Bite was a quick read.
Fun enough, but not exactly “fang-tastic”.I have wanted to take a bite out of this series (wink, wink) for years.
And while I thought that Lissianna’s bulb was sometimes too dim - her attempted murderer was the most obvious suspect in the history of obviousness - I did like how she was alternately shy and protective of Greg.
For PNR fans, this is $1.99 at Amazon (1-28-2015):http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000...I can't do it. Maybe I'll try a re-read in the future, but I have too many books on my TBR list to force myself to get through this. If you are just getting into paranormal romance and "paranormal chick-lit," you might like it. I think I have just outgrown this kind of stuff for the most part. I need something a little more complicated than the typical formulaic romance story.
A Quick Bite is the first installment in Lynsay Sands's vampire paranormal romance series titled Argeneau.
It was too easy to put the book down while reading and I kind of had a "take it or leave it" outlook.
But I stuck it out...I mean have you seen how many books are in this series?????
I should note there were things I did like about A Quick Bite: I liked the fact that the female lead is the vampire while the male lead is the mortal.
I finished the book but didn't like it enough to continue the series.
4.5 Quick Fun stars :)  A one-time read.Though I did throughly enjoy reading the book and its characters. Looking forward to reading the rest.
By the end of the happily ever after, there were still 60 pages left and then I remembered the very minor sub plot they'd been building throughout the book that I think was supposed to be funny but fell a little flat.
Maybe it was because from the first moment it was introduced it was obvious what it was, maybe it felt a little forced, like it was added in to give the story more conflict or maybe it was because I just didn't think it was funny.
Who knows?I think that I would have liked this book with less of her giggling cousins and a more integrated sub plot, I don't know.
First of all I didn’t like this book AT ALL.
The story was utterly boring, the main characters were irritating and the rest of the secondary ones seemed like they were added just to take up some space in the book.
The author tried (maybe too hard) to make everyone likeable but she didn’t succeed.
The hero and heroine have no chemistry, and all the hot and sweaty scenes just left me cold.More than once I thought of just deleting the damn book and picking on something better.
I won’t even touch the rest of the series unless someone I trust recommends it to me.
I know it is hard to introduce your own fantasy world but putting 15 family members in this book was way too much for me, aunts, uncles, cousins, siblings, one big happy vampire family.I was extremely disappointed that the hero/heroine got very few minutes together without the family constantly interfering, I mean they walked in 2ce when Lissi was kissing Greg, when she was feeding of him, when they were having sex, and the person interrupting it is not like "oops sorry" and closing the door, no he marches in and starts up conversation.
The description of the book describes the main character Lissianna as a vampire with a tendency to faint at the site of blood.
Lissianna comes from a family of vampires.
She's had some bad luck finding some good food, and arrives early at her mothers for her birthday party.
Vampire birthday party.
The party winds down later and Lissianna and her friends and family are downstairs.
The vampires then all gather around asking what do you do at a pajama party.
Perhaps the story gets better and less ...ridiculous later but I couldn't really stomach any more after that.
I liked Greg, but did not love him.
Safety gang safeThere might be little nits that people do not like that I will list below, but this is a safe book.(view spoiler)[Lissiana does bite men for blood.
They agree to not bite OM or OW after he is turned.Greg has a few thoughts about how beautiful her cousins are, just did not like the entire scene, however, I can see that it was funny to most people.Neither are virgins.
No info on her history and he has not has sex in a year and that was a ONS.
2.5 starsOkay story. Really liked the romance, but the beginning was painfully repetitive and slow. Luciana had to be a pretty dim bulb to miss the identity of the bad guy! So frustrating. Wouldn't really recommend the audio. I did enjoy the narrator's voice, but in parts the cadence seems so very slow. Also, I'm not sure what was up with some of the really long pauses out of the blue. ??I did get this on sale on audible so I guess I can't really complain too much. :/
3,5/5☆Un inico de serie muy buena y entretenida. Aunque el principio se me hizo un poco lento poco a poco me fue enganchando.Se le puede llamar un libro bastante introductorio.
I picked this up expecting a fairly light and funny read along the lines of Katie MacAlister's Dark Ones series and I have to say for the first couple of chapters I thought that was exactly what I had got but unfortunately the humour got old very fast and I ended up hating most of the characters.Lissianna is a 200 year old vampire but along with her cousins (some of whom are even older than she is!) she acts like a 12 year old tween most of the time.
[image error] This was a sweet little vampire read. A little different than any I've read before. Definitely a light and mildly amusing story, with a touching romance to keep you guessing just how this story would end.The Argeneau's, are a very close knit Canadian family of vampires that huddle around each other worrying and caring for each other. The story starts out as the family is celebrating the two hundred and second birthday of Lissianna Argeneau. She is one of the younger siblings of the
This was a sweet little vampire read.
A little different than any I've read before.
Definitely a light and mildly amusing story, with a touching romance to keep you guessing just how this story would end.The Argeneau's, are a very close knit Canadian family of vampires that huddle around each other worrying and caring for each other.
The story starts out as the family is celebrating the two hundred and second birthday of Lissianna Argeneau.
This story was definitely a little different than I am used to.
I liked the characters Lissi was very loving and protective, not only of Greg but of everyone she encountered...including her victims!
I know people will laugh when I say this, but it didn't feel very believable....I know, I know.
It's a story about vampires, but they are trying to claim some advanced science from the time of Atlantis made these vampires.
He is kidnapped but doesn't mind so much because he thinks Lissi is hot?That Lissi faints at the sight of blood just seemed silly instead of ironic like I think it could have been.
I had a lot of other problems with this book, but I don't really want to go into all of them.I am hoping that since this was the first in the series that maybe they get better as you go.
Seems like I never enjoy these as much as I think I will; I keep hoping for another The Accidental Vampire but no luck so far.This started out pretty well, with psychologist Greg being kidnapped to be vampire Lissianna's "birthday gift" from her mom.
It all kind of petered out though, and Lissianna is just Too Stupid to Be Undead -- what 202 year old vampire wouldn’t be suspicious of garlic and crosses suddenly showing up where she works, for crying out loud?
(Okay, they're not actually dead/undead in Sand's mythology, but I couldn't resist the joke.) I didn't mind the flaws as much as the general dullness.
2.5🌟
Lissi is a vampire with a strange condition, she faints at the sight of blood.
So, for her birthday, her mom "kidnaps" a psychologist to cure her of her condition.
When Lissianna sees Greg tied up on her bed, she things he might be a birthday present of the snacking kind and hilarious hijinks ensue.While the "who done it" in this book was pretty obvious from the get go, it was still highly entertaining and there were enough twists and turns to keep me wrapped up in it.
I also appreciated Sands original twist on the creation of vampires and their lives.
Guilty pleasure read.Quite predictable and slow at the beginning but enjoyable. There's nothing original about Lissi and Greg's story but if you want to read something light with a small portion of smut, go for it.
Lissianna Argeneau is a vampire with a problem. Every time she sees blood she faints. She has to feed "the old ways" by biting her victim and afterwards make him forget he ever saw her. But vampire council has decided to protect their race from discovery and feeding is only allowed with blood of special blood banks (execpt for emergency situations). Lissis familiy is very concerned about her hemaphobia and wants to help her. On her birthday her mother has the great idea to kidnap Dr. Greg Hewitt
On her birthday her mother has the great idea to kidnap Dr. Greg Hewitt a psychologist who just wanted to go on vacation and to "persuade" him (tied to Lissi´s bed by the way) to treat Lissi against her phobia.
Although Greg would like to help Lissi and they are instantly attracted to each other he is really pissed off at being kidnapped and wants to leave...I never thought I would enjoy so much reading about this exceptional vampire family.
Just the scene when Lissi and Greg escaped her family and their dog on a pink bicycle was worth the money.
It was smoothly written, with some potentially good ideas that could have made Quick Bite into a pretty decent read.
Quick Bite has been, however, very popular among para fans, which, after having read it, leaves me more than puzzled.
What I did like about this book was the fact that it was filled with potentially (that word again)hilarious ideas.
When I first added this book to my shelves I thought, sure, give it a go - it looks funny, cute, original; maybe even thrilling.I'd be happy to put a check to funny, to cute too; but as for it being original and thrilling...
I'd say you should give it a go if you're after something relaxing, but if you want something thrilling, I'd recommend you leave it for another time.There were some great parts - funny, endearing (the romance was pretty good, as were some of the family aspects); but there were also others (like the team "six & a half" cousins and what not going all "I want to...
I really think this is the worst book I have ever read!Why can't I give it ZERO stars?I had to make myself finish it.The plot was silly, the writing was baaaad (someone get her a thesaurus!), the characters were stupid and the bad guy was...
I think Father Joseph was the worst!!A priest who hasn't had enough sleep so he's gotten into a state of delusion and wants to stake a real person so he can prove she's not a vampire...
and he does 'cause God has given him a mision!Greg, a psychologist who's so smart that he can defeat the bad guys with his wit and knowledge!And finally, Lissi...
A nice, light, humorous, quirky read about vampires.A fresh take on the vampire genre, nothing too d
