https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/42389.Band_of_Brothers
The living memory of World War II is fading fast, and it is due to the efforts of historians, biographers, and researchers like Stephen Ambrose that we will have so many incredible stories, even after that generation has passed into memory.
In Easy Company of the 506th Regiment of the 101st Airborne, he has an incredible subject: an elite group of soldiers who – like the mythical platoon of Samuel Fuller’s The Big Red One – find themselves in just about every important operation in the European Theater, from D-Day to VE-Day. The problem, though, is that Ambrose is no Walter Lord, and he’s no Cornelius Ryan.
Ambrose's Band of Brothers.After watching the television miniseries a couple times through and really enjoying it for its humanity, I thought it was time I gave the book a go.
It's not a lot of extra detail - the stories of a few soldiers that had to be passed over for brevity's sake, as well as further personal details of the soldiers mainly focused upon - but if you're a big fan of the show, you're a candidate to read Band of Brothers, an admirably penned work that squeezes what good it can out of some dark days indeed.
How many historians does it take to write a bad book that translates into a great TV series ?While the deeds on Easy Company, encompassing the most famous American battles in the ETO, are a goldmine, mr.
The heat of battle, ironically, is only felt in the icy cold of an Ardennes winter: "they got through the Bulge because they had become a band of brothers"  What it has instead in abundance is an overkill of American gung-ho.
Only great people within a generation that took part in a large war.
And all the losers and assholes great people share every generation with as well as a draft.
This was so good!
Two thumbs up and a booya.
I saw the HBO series and loved it so I decided to read the book.
The book was great too because it gave more information on the war and the men involved.
If you have not seen the series, watch it.
The really great thing about the show and the book is that it is not all about war.
It is the (very accurately) true story about the men of E company and the bonds they formed, and I'm not even all about forming bonds with dudes.
The last few chapters were truly unbearable in their intensity.
War - a devastating but eerily beautiful thing that is an embodiment of the worst of mankind but still brings out the best in men.So much better than the TV series.
No timeline tricks, no visual trickery to distract you, but the pure unbridled horror of war and thrill of danger and strategy.
The book manages to take you into the thick of the action, into the ditches and the gun fire better than the show.
Paratroopers of Easy Company, in the square of Sainte-Marie-du-Mont, Normandy (June 7, 1944)Let me be frank right at the start: Ambrose's deficiencies on display as both a writer and historian are truly baffling to behold, and become glaringly obvious once one manages to detach these from the admittedly inspiring nature of the subject treated.
The only thing that does somewhat "save" this book IS the subject: the story of the elite military outfit -exclusively composed of volunteers - of Easy Company, which played such a crucial part in the Western European theatre of war.
Back to the Pop history for Patriots on page 191 we then get that "it was all a question of timing" because ".....Monty, commanding the forces (all American) on the Northern shoulder of the bulge, stalled and shivered and made excuses, so it did not happen" Contradictory statements and a poor delivery are making this one of the worst books I have ever read.
Ambrose's "Band of Brothers" is probably the best ever true WW2 novel I have ever read.
It makes an excellent vacation read for those who enjoy this genre.
It deals with the individual men of Easy Company, 506 PIR, 101st Airbourne Division.
Through Ambrose's portrayal of the men's lives and ordeals he shows how a group of men become not just pals, but brothers.
we see the formation of the company through training then on to D-Day, Holland, Bastogne, Germany and Austria.
The ending of the novel (Not to give too much away) is possably, for some, a very emotional and powerful closing to the book.
(Though he states that the book is "very much a group effort" with the men from E Company, so how much of that credit goes to them is anybody's guess, and some events were anonymised and possibly left out to protect people.)Whenever he attempts military analysis of the actual way/battles, his thoughtless "MURRIKA!" propaganda grates like hell.
Not a hint of applying the same critical measurement to all sides.Ambrose nicely feathers his wooden, lacklustre account with liberal quotes from a number of decent to good military historians who are far more insightful than he is (such as Keegan).Overall, the show does a great job putting all this on the screen, so you can skip the book.
AMAZING. I was cold when they were cold, tired with them, hungry with them, and relieved when they left the front lines. I felt like I was there the entire time and could not stop turning the pages. A historical, true, and educational book. Very insightful as to war and the minds of soldiers. Lots of specific military movements, language, and actions. And, of course, violent, bloody, and most everyone dies either in war or in old age.
First of all, I think it is impossible to review this book completely separate from its miniseries. Especially, because I loved that series so much, and that led to me reading the book. Also, reading this book was a refreshing experience as I do not read history book as often as I would like.  Band of Brothers the book is a very accessible history book if you would ask me. Ambrose’s writing style is straightforward and merely describes Easy Company’s history as he understood it through facts and
Also, reading this book was a refreshing experience as I do not read history book as often as I would like.
Ambrose’s writing style is straightforward and merely describes Easy Company’s history as he understood it through facts and interviews.
Yet, because of this ‘cleanliness’ in his writing style the book lacks the charm that is so clearly present in the series.
Because of this I did not make the same emotional connection to the book and its characters as I did with the miniseries.
It was sufficient, I have immense respect for what Easy Company (and all others) went through, but it simply was not written captivating enough to live up to my expectations.
Though, you should be warned that Ambrose editorializes quite a bit throughout the book, e.g., "because we were a democracy, we had better trained soliders and won the war..." and so forth.
Statements like that smack a bit of triumphalism to me.It's also very coarse prose--no elegantly written passages in Band of Brothers.
In fact, there are quite a few typos--glaring typos in some instances.
You'd think after all the books Ambrose authored, and the fact that he's a high-profile historian/author, that he'd have a halfway decent editor and proofreader.
Might be it is, but for the annoying comments of Ambrose at every chapter, reminding the reader that they (US) won because the "democratic soldier" had the moral superiority over the German (Nazi) soldier.
So, it is difficult to rate it properly.To win a war or a battle has nothing to do with moral righteousness.The book will be among the best on WWI if you skip Ambrose's comments on every chapter.
They mostly keep to the spectator the right to decide and judge and made any moral conclusions, skipping every bit of Ambrose's comments.Incidentally, in the book The Scientist as Rebel by Freeman Dyson, he puts it quite clear, when writes about the WWII.
Book on CD read by Collin SmithThe subtitle is all the synopsis anyone needs: E Company, 506th Regiment, 101st Airborne from Normandy to Hitler’s Eagle’s Nest.Ambrose chose one unit and followed the men of that unit through their years of training, and combat during World War II.
He profiles the officers and enlisted men alike, showing their reactions to training, to the regimented lifestyle the military requires, to combat, and to each other.
One final footnote: In the last year of his life, Ambrose was accused of plagiarizing several passages in his book The Wild Blue.
Band of Brothers tells the story of Easy Company of the 101 first airborne, of men in their own words, idiots who jump out of a perfectly good airplane.
Stephen Ambrose collected stories from many surviving Easy Company men and wrote an extraordinary book about extraordinary men who fought an extraordinary battle and yet, when the war was over, came back home and quietly got on with their lives.
I don't think an event such as WW2 can be fully described by a book or a tv series, but Band of Brothers is as good as it gets.
For a history book Band of Brothers is very well written.
It is easy for a non-military buff to understand and Ambrose does a great job of bringing the men of Easy to life.
It's difficult for me to rate the book impartially because I have already fallen in love with the mini-series.
Parts of the book were probably easier to understand because I had the series as a background.
The one complaint I had was that, when describing military position and combat details, Ambrose often slips into a slightly boring, history professor style of writing.
Just so you know, this author was accused of plagiarism. It's important that you know this.Slate Article.And not possibly made a mistake type either (see Fareed Zakaria. Ambrose did it more than once.Knowing that fact is important, regardless of how you view the book.
Stephen Ambrose, the author of this book, “The Band of Brothers,” was also fascinated with World War 2, having heard the legends and stories growing up, he ended up doing 40 years of traveling, interviewing and research.
Even writing this, feeling the pain, remembering the story of a group of soldiers who took part in one of the most horrifying world-wide tragedies in the history of humanity, I want to close my eyes.
If anyone knows pain, hell on earth, mental anguish, the darkest sides of life, it’s a veteran of war.
Swithered between 3 and 4 stars for this.
Subject matter was enthralling and these guys really were heroes several times over.
I did find the last chapter on what they did post war particularly interesting and not something that you typically get in a WW2 book.However, I've opted for 3 stars as I was bit disappointed as I had such high expectations for this - found the writing not as great as it could have been with too much detail in some cases and not enough in others.
I think many if not most will be familiar with this book as it's not only been around a while, sold well and gotten a lot of notice it's also the inspiration behind a TV edition.
it's a highly interesting book giving the story/history of the outfit along with a "slice" of the "everyday war".
The men, the officers from training through the end of the war.
The men who were killed, the replacements, the survivors who went from the unit's inception to the very end.History buff?
Interested in the military?
One of my favorite tv shows and books. I had this book on my tbr stack and decided to get reading it. I have always been interested in the band of brothers and their story. This book was really good and nothing I write will do it justice.
Namun untuk buku dan film tentang Easy Company 2/506th Regiment, 101st Airborne ini bisa dibilang saling melengkapi.Ambilah cerita tentang pertempuran merebut meriam Jerman di Brécourt Manor setelah Letnan Winters berhasil menggabungkan diri dengan markas batalyon dan memimpin sekelompok kecil pasukan.
Ketika kepemimpinan di Easy Company lowong karena figur yang sepantasnya menempatkan diri tidak ada, sebelum mereka kembali menemukan sosok pemimpin saat Letnan Speirs menjadi komandan selapas kemelut, ada figur lain yang mengisi kekosongan itu.
Under what circumstances would you give your life for someone else?These men made that ultimate sacrifice for one another in some cases. They also made that sacrifice for all the generations that have gone after them.Is that relevant today or just ancient history as we give up the United States to people that could care less about how this great country (and don't let them tell you otherwise) was founded and preserved.Should be required reading.
A diligent researcher, Ambrose sifted through historical evidence and spoke with family members and, when still possible, the troops themselves--which is an invaluable addition to the book--to humanize the story and tell it as accurately as possible.
Reading this book will, if anything, help you appreciate that it's not all about you.
N.B.: The HBO mini-series is incredible, too - just don't watch it until a) you've read the book and b) you can devote at least 10 hours to sitting in front of the TV uninterrupted, because you'll want to watch them in one sitting, one after the next, until you're done.
Habría sido perfecto si el autor no hubiera intercalado opiniones personales sobre algunas operaciones de la guerra, a mi parecer, rompen un poco con el espíritu de la crónica. De resto, excelente.
Besides, he is an historian who can actually write) -- but a recognition of that jingoism doesn't take away from the sheer mind-blowing impressiveness of what Easy Company accomplished in WWII -- and their too good to be true, Hollywood style amazingness is best summed up in the career of Major Richard "Dick" Winters.
The men of Easy Company believed in their leadership, and that leadership was embodied by Major Richard Winters.
(It was worth a few eye-rolls though.) He doesn't give a wide-spread overview of the war, which again, I wasn't really expecting anything different.
On the other hand, the book also fails to give an intimate view into the lives of the men of Easy Company, which leaves the reader with a somewhat muddled account of things.
The bits and pieces from the letters home and the accounts of the men themselves were the most interesting; I think it was when Ambrose had to fill in the gaps between that things fell flat.
Amazing. This book details an Paratrooper division that was involved in many key battles during WWII in Europe. It gave an outstanding account of the hardship these soldiers suffered. It was sufficiently graphic to realistically explain the horrors of war; but was not over the top. Sometimes I had a hard time following where the men were and what they were doing. I also didn't understand all the army acronyms used in this book to describe the chain of command.
A classic due to the mini TV-series based on this book. Having seen the TV-series first and not having read up on the differences between them (TV-series contains more material) I expected this one to be more detailed than it was. However it is still an interesting book and worth the read.
The book is full of grimy details that serve to anchor the horrific reality of war into the minds of civilians far removed from conflict.Ambrose is largely unconcerned with many of the questions historians ask.
It was as if Ambrose turned the real-life cinema of WWII into a book.I especially appreciated Ambrose's willingness to expose many of these men's faults alongside of their heroics.
Borrowing heavily from Glen Gray's "The Warriors: Reflections on Men in Battle" Ambrose effectively attaches both the 'secret attractions' and horrors of war to the historical men who made up Easy Company.I warmly recommend this entertaining read as a small part of a reader's study and consideration of WWII.
