https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1633.Getting_Things_Done

This approach to maximizing productivity is popular among the nerdegalian, probably because of its minimum bullshit approach to actually processing, classifying, and executing what the author David Allen calls "stuff to do." This book discusses the GTD system in its entirety and, more importantly, teaches you how to put it in place.What I really liked about Allen's work is that it's very straight forward and focused on implementation.
I bought this book, and I read some of it.
It sat on a shelf unfinished.
I read some more.
It sat in my car unfinished.
I think this is self-explanatory.[Later...]Now I'm reading 26 Reasons Not to Use GTD, and it does a good job of articulating the "ehhhh"ness that I felt while reading this.[Even later...]And if you think GTD's followers are a little cult-like (see, for instance, the comments on this review), check this out: When David Allen says in the acknowledgments "deepest thanks go to my spiritual coach, J-R", he's talking about a man named John-Roger "the Mystical Traveler", who believes he is a reincarnation of Jesus, St. Francis of Assisi, and Abraham Lincoln.
I'm a big geek, and here's proof (if you needed it). I learned about GTD from Merlin Mann's 43 Folders site, and became an instant convert. Because I love folders, lists, diagrams, flow charts, of course, but most of all because with GTD, you have to have a labeller. I love my labeller. I love making labels for my files, and admiring them in their serried ranks, all neat and labelly.And I do actually seem to be getting more done, even when I factor in all the time I spend labelling.
لذلك قررت أن أكتب هنا عن هذا الكتاب باختصار, وان اضيف المراجعة المفصلة لا حقا في مدونتي.في البداية دعوني أنبّه أن للكتاب ترجمة عربية بعنوان ( كيفية إنجاز الأشياء ) وللأسف لا أستطيع ان اوصي بها لأني لم أطلع عليها, لكني أظن أنها من إصدرات جرير, وإصدرات جرير عموما ليست سيئة للحد الذي لا تفهم فيه شيئا مما تقرأ, وليست جيدة للحد الذي يسمح لك بالقراءة من دون معاناة سد ثغرات الترجمة ..
في الواقع, أنت لن تجد في الكتاب أي شيء بخصوص ترتيب هذه الأشياء, لكنك سوف تتعلم طريقة ديفيد ألين على النطاق الواسع ( وهو إنجاز المهام اليومية ) ومن ثم سوف تجد انك تستطيع تطبيقها على الكثير من المجالات حولك.
If you find yourself turning a little moist and your pulse quickening with pleasure when you read words and phrases such as:-High-performance workflow management-Family commitments-Priority factors-The ability to be successful, relaxed, and in control during these fertile but turbulent times demands new ways of thinking and working-key work tool-assembly-line modality-workforce-values thinking-desired results-ups the ante in the game-deal effectively with the complexity of life in the twenty-first centuryas well as quotes around "colloquial" phrases, such as "ringing your bell" (which I think he uses incorrectly, at least according to MY understanding of a what a "bell" is and what it means to "ring" it)then not only is this the book for you, this is also the society and era for you, because these things are inescapable and even more so in this book.
With first-chapter allusions to martial arts, "flow,""mind like water," and other concepts borrowed from the East (and usually mangled), you'd almost think this self-helper from David Allen should have been called Zen and the Art of Schedule Maintenance./ Not quite.
It's commonsense advice so obvious that most of us completely overlook it, much to our detriment; Allen excels at dispensing such wisdom in this useful, if somewhat belabored, self-improver aimed at everyone from CEOs to soccer moms (who we all know are more organized than most CEOs to start with).
This book should have been a 3,000-word article. It was full of useless details (e.g. listing the types of materials out of which an inbox might be made), redundant to the point of making me crazy, and overflowing with multi-step systems for this, that, and the other (seriously, keeping the 3- or 4- or 6-step filters straight would require flashcards).While it had some useful tips, I can't imagine anyone having the free time to implement the system fully. Clearly, though, I am wrong in this, just google "getting things done" or "gtd" and check out the millions of results.
David Allen's smirking white male face on the cover of this book may convince that he's successful...but the man should reserve his smirk for one on one business dealings. The biggest issue with this book is, I couldn't get it done.  Getting Things Done  is written for a non-existent audience: a procrastinator with enough motivation to actually plow through Allen's dry instruction manual.
Probably the best self-help book I ever read - in any case the one I most adapted to the organization of my life. It does not have an annoying religious aura to it like 7 Habits or the selfish haberdashery spirit of How to Win Friends and Influence People, but is down to earth and highly practical. I was able to get to Inbox Zero and have held on to that principal for years now. If folks are interested, I can repost here my own adaptation of the techniques. Still for me a reference!
So for anyone who doesn't know much about it, I'd like to summarize the book and at the same time show how beneficial Allen's method has been for me.First of all, GTD is not a top-down approach.
GTD has equipped me to better deal with my responsibilities, and in some cases gave me some trick that helped make all the difference.The second problem I've had with productivity books is more complex.
As I've implemented Allen's method, I've found myself able to mentally relax and in general am feeling a lot more creative again.
I'm listening to this because I need to get a grip on my life. I can't even focus enough to listen about how to get my life together, much less do it.
2.65 stars.I've used a mutated version of this for years, but thought I'd try the original text. I was disappointed. I felt it gave equal weight to parts of GTD that are a cakewalk (emptying your mind onto a page) with parts that sound easy but are complex (deciding on next actions).Also I thought the weekly/quarterly review needed more focus. Allen talks about the 20,000/50,000 foot view, but without enough detail on how to accomplish these.I'd recommend reading through a summary instead of the whole book. There are people who explain Allen's system better than Allen.
I'm really glad my wife and I read this book together.
It's already been very helpful in getting us to look at the reason so many things never get done on time or sometimes not at all.
(That sounds like a description of a scone or something.) We're still working on getting our system set up (I mean filing cabinets for reference material) so I might need to add more to this in a month's time.
Read, go!Update: one month later, I can say that I do feel less stressed about things, and I'm getting things done like never before.
nicely done & read - wish he'd bring out an updated edition ...
And of course everything in this book is best suited to someone with a secretary or personal assistant.But there are some practical bits and pieces to take away, I've found it useful to not just write a to-do list but also to write by each item what I'm waiting on or what has to be done next to progress the item and the book inspired me to use the email calender feature to pop up reminders of things to do and people to chase.Beware however, just because you can deal with something within two minutes doesn't mean that you should do so!For an absolutely different vision of how a business can work its worth reading Toyota Production System Beyond Large-Scale Production or anything by W.
If you're the kind of person who has a hard time focusing on creative work because less-important undone projects are nagging at you, this is a great system.I usually dislike business books for exactly the reasons above.
Right now I'm taking the time to write a review of this book because I feel on top of all the other things in my life.
I'll get to them when it's time.In short, if you're a creative person who has any kind of outside commitments (i.e., you don't get to lounge about all day writing or painting or watching the stars), then GTD may be a way to give yourself a clean mental slate when you want to do personal creative work.
Recall the last time you went on a significant vacation from work: before you left you cleared all your to-dos, emptied your inbox, tied all the loose ends, and organized the things you'd tackle when you came back.
then organize them out into Projects, Next Actions, Someday/Maybe projects, Read and Review, and more if you want.
The chapter on organizing your email and keeping your inbox empty is BRILLIANT!
If you want to see this book in action, I'll show you my email and desk.
I recommend this book to just about everyone.Read the first chapter.
A bit too detailed for my taste, but there are some magnificent principles involved here. I learned a lot.
I decided to investigate further a little while back, and finally picked up the book two weeks ago.
I may revise my rating at that time.The things that irritate me in this book are exactly the things I expected might irritate me.
But at the same time, there is something I didn't really expect: very concrete advice about organizational tricks and tactics, introduced with the words "let me assure you that a lot of the value people get from this material is good 'tricks.'" Recognizable meat!
Tried the print and the audio and just couldn't grasp the system which would enable me to get lots and lots of stuff done in an easy manner without struggle. I guess once you get through the book, nothing else seems like as much of a struggle. I should have known it wasn’t for me, when the author said “stop making to-do lists.” I mean, really, what would I do with all the cute sticky note pads I have?
خیلی خوشم اومد. از اون کتابایی بود که میگفتم کاش زودتر میخوندم.ایدهی کتاب رو چند روزیاه شروع کردم به پیادهسازی و واقعا دنیا شفافتر(: و سادهتر شده. ذهنم راحتتر شده و سریعتر کارها رو انجام میدم.البته ایدهی کتاب خیلی فضایی و جادویی نیست. صرفا میگه که همه چیزها رو بنویسیم. همه کارهایی که قراره بکنیم، همه اونایی که قرار بوده انجام بدیم و ندادیم(حتی مثلا ۱۰ ساله هی بعضا میاد تو ذهنمون که انجام بدیم) و همه اون کارایی که شاید یه روزی انجام بدیم.همهی اینا باید تو سیستمی باشه که مطمئن باشیم بهش سر میزنیم
ذهنم راحت‌تر شده و سریع‌تر کارها رو انجام میدم.البته‌ ایده‌ی کتاب خیلی فضایی و جادویی نیست.
اگه چک نکنیم، ذهن ما می‌فهمه که این نوشتن‌ها بازی‌ای بیش نبوده و باز سعی می‌کنه همه چی رو خودش حفظ کنه و نگه داره.در حالیکه اگه تو یه سیستم مطمئن(مثلا رو کاغذهایی که سر می‌زنیم، رو یه نرم‌افزار) بنویسیم و چک کنیم، مغز ما می‌فهمه که لازم نیست وظیفه‌ی انبار بودن رو هم انجام بده.
چون می‌دونه یه جایی لیست کارایی که فردا صبح باید انجام بده هست.راحت‌تر هم به تفریحش می‌رسه.
یعنی مشخص باشند چه کاری فیزیکی‌ای باید انجام بشه.
This recommendation came at a time when I was feeling particularly overwhelmed and overloaded at work, so I figured I would try to see if there was anything here that I could adopt so as to better inform my client about how it works while engaging in my own self-improvement.According to David Allen, we feel overwhelmed and distracted because we have too many commitments on our minds rather than taking action on them and/or filing them away in a system where we can revisit them as needed.
It started with just a blank sheet as I would use in college, but then I added daily to-dos, and most recently I added a schedule and weekly to-dos (less specific than the dailies).So for my part, I really like the system he outlines and have made efforts to incorporate it into my own workday and outside-of-work calendar.
Outside of work, I'm not sure that my life is busy enough to warrant organizing "next actions" by any further granularity - I just use a small planner for my personal life - though this could be because I haven't captured everything.
Set reminders for the actions you need to take.NotesA New Practice for a New Reality“[M]ost of the stress people experience comes from inappropriately managed commitments they make or accept.”“Things rarely get stuck because of lack of time.
Putting things that don’t have to be done that day is distracting and demoralizing.Use the Weekly Review to “clean house.” Don’t try to stay “squeaky clean” all the time, as it distracts from work at hand.5 Phases of PlanningWhen a project is stuck, think of your purpose.
Decide on the next action.The “why” of a project: Ask “why” to understand the purpose of what you’re doing.
If you have a hint of what you're doing, he is quite vague with no actual hands-on tips.Here are his main ideas:-- Your mind is always keeping a running to-do list in the background while you're doing other things.
Shut out the running to-do list and you can focus on one thing at a time.-- So, empty your head of every to-do, every thought and keep it all in one place.
The whole thing reads like an advert for his consulting business because he gives you just enough information to feel like you don't know what you're doing but not enough concrete tasks to actually get to work.
If posting your colonoscopy video on social media was a thing, I could really prove to you how much I got done by reading this book.
Not satisfied, I checked out the dead-tree copy of the newly revised 2015 version of the book.
I only managed to skim and review a few sections, and it seems a bit more relevant, but this guy still loves his paper folders and label makers.
The library book has to go back, but I might revisit this again.2016 reading challenge checks the box for 13.
I need all the help I can get!
I'm sure this would work for many but it is not something that would work for me.
Since it might take less than two minutes to write this review, I'll just do it now...
The two-minute rule is one of the only things I remember from this book (which I read more than five years ago).
I generally like the rule, but have found it problematic when something else also comes to mind, and I forget what that was within two minutes =) By the time I came to read this, I had already learned many productivity strategies from other books and programs.
Perhaps I might have walked away with much more if this were one of the first/only books I've read.
