https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/263501.The_Last_Ship
First and foremost I must say that Brinkley was truly ambitious in his attempt at writing a very modern story in the voice of a very old world sea captain.
At times I found myself backtracking to re-read whole chapters in order to maintain a grasp of where and when I was in the story.
One could safely say that his editor deserved to be keelhauled.In spite of his writing style (or perhaps because of it) you should persevere.
But you have to want to read this book in order to make it to the last page.
The chief factor in enjoying or hating The Last Ship is your ability to go along with Brinkley’s writing style.
To me, the real downside to The Last Ship is Brinkley’s choice to utilize a first-person narrator.
It’s hard to tell whether the softly patronizing tenor of the narration is supposed to be one of the captain’s character traits (the old patriarchal sea dog) or runs much deeper.
Up until the sex, Brinkley’s prose styling is imitative of Melville and the King James Bible.
This says something, because post-nuclear war novels fall pretty far down her list of things she wants to listen to.
Oh my Lord, is the author long-winded.
There are very few books that I need to stop reading.
The author takes 2 pages to cover what should be covered in 1/2 page.
Yes, it is that long winded.
Give it a rest, man -- we just want to read something for fun.
If you are spending 10-15 years in the can for B&E and need a long winded book, grab this masterpiece.
If you want to enjoy your free moments in life, then run the F@ away and grab something else.
The idea that we should take these embodiments - harbors, repositories - of all that is gentle and of final value in life, and God and Nature's chosen instrument for the species' very survival, and place them where they would be caught up in the ancient rough-and-tumble of shipboard existence, where peril was one's daily bread, indeed where they might be maimed or slaughtered, and this act based on the concept that equality consisted in women doing exactly what men do: this seemed to me wicked to the point of malignancy, an abomination in the sight of the Lord and of pure reason, and a consummate fraud pulled off on half the human race by their own kind, abetted by a number of men masquerading as their champions.
The Last Ship by William Brinkley is a post-nuclear-apocalyptic novel which focuses on the survival of the crew of the destroyer Nathan James.
See the last quote, chosen because it was actually a typical sentence.) There was also a rather graphic sex scene late in the novel that felt like an unnecessary addition and was totally out of place.
You might enjoy The Last Ship if you like post-apocalyptic fiction and at the same time are not intimidated by an author's excessive use of a large vocabulary (not always correctly used), and pages of complicated sentences.Recommended for the plot, so-so for the author's writing
Reading shouldn't be painful, should it?* * *Damn, just as I was about give up on this, the author takes us back to before the nuclear war and to the Arctic sea and for a chapter I was spellbound by the intensity of his ability to describe a tumultuous, raging storm in that terrible place and then to contrast that wildness of nature with the slow, deliberate discipline required when their orders to launch are received.
He was a naval captain in a different era, so he clearly knows his stuff, but is projecting this knowledge forward to a time and very different situation (nuclear warships and women aboard).
I really, really wanted to like this book.Post-apocalyptic survival story aboard a U.S. Navy guided missile destroyer, right up my alley; however, I just couldn't get into the writing style.Pros:The author knows his stuff when it comes to the U.S. Navy and personnel.
A warship navigating a post-nuclear war: encountering remote islands, scavenging wasteland coasts, survivalist, modern warships, etc.Cons:Writing style: Lengthy chapters without a single bit of dialogue.
Literally, you can't move a single chapter without the point being made that there were women serving on the ship.
Brinkley gets the narrator Captain's thought processes perfect.
In its own way, it answers a lot of questions about "what if" with basic and central ideas as to "what happens now?" should the final war ever happen.
All of this is answered in sensitive and well thought out ways.
This book screamed for a sequel, which was not published before Brinkley's death in 1993.
I own my own copy of this book and I find myself rereading it every other year or so.
It can still be found in some libraries and used book stores, and I found a copy at Amazon.com for a gift to a retired Navy friend a few years ago.
Lots of things happen in this book. The problem is that they occur with no build up, are related in as mind numbingly tedious a parade of pretentious twaddle as I've ever read, and then are over before they have a chance to start. Then, it's on to the next event, which will be equally devoid of any excitement, wit, charm or relatable characters. Repeat until the author just gets bored and decides to stop (there is no real conclusion).One of, if not *the* worst book I've ever read. Avoid.
It took me a while to become invested in this book because much of the first third of the story contains information dumps on naval procedures and protocol that didn't interest me.
By the end of the book, I was fully engrossed in what was happening and wanted the story to continue.On a side note: Brinkley has an odd author quirk of using the word 'brutal' to describe everything.
are all variously described as brutal, and the author uses the word hundreds of times throughout the book.
If you drank a shot each time you came across the word 'brutal' you'd never make it through to the last page.
I just wanted them all to die so this book would finally be over.
The Nathan James, the seemingly only ship besides a Russian submarine, the Pushkin, to survive a nuclear holocause, takes an understandingly painful and torurous journey in an attempt to find a new home admist the now contaminated world of hydrogen radiation.
This is a good work as a testement to the ultimate holocaust, as between Selman's, the captain's uility science officer, with his cold and calculating, and yet not impersonal readings of radiation levels, to the challenges and burden the women find themselves in in facing their part in either continuing the human race, or being instruments in its extinction, to the Jesuits and even the captains struggles and philosophical/spiritual conflicts of facing the uncertain and un-varifiable possibility that they and a crew of about a hundred Russian sailors may be the only ones left on the planet.
Perhaps that is one of the reasons I did not read THE LAST SHIP until now.The premise of the book is that a war of "mutually assured destruction" leaves the world in an apocalyptic state.
The "Nathan James" needs nuclear fuel, the "Pushkin" needs food and the crews of both need a place live.
The 600+ pages of this book tells what happens to the crew members of the two ships over a two year span.
The Captain of the "Nathan James" waxes philosophic for pages on end to the detriment of the story.It is not a book that I can recommend except to devout readers of naval fiction.
Being an old sailor I thought I would really enjoy this book. It seems like a modern day cross between Nevil Shute "On the Beach" and David Graham's "Down to a Sunless Sea". The story isn't bad but the main character rambles and complains for pages upon pages. The book could easily be cut by 1/2. Not recommended
I've also really enjoyed The Destroyermen series by Taylor Anderson and was looking forward to another book about this seemingly singular breed.Having scanned the reviews already posted i've found that many have had the same experience i had.
When that character seems to spend almost the entire of the first section in painful introspection, to have swallowed a thesaurus and to be seemingly incapable of thinking in short sentences then i have a real problem.
Because we don't know the crew, or the issues they have faced and i simply did not feel that my empathy had been earned and had little patience with mostly of the overblown introspection that felt simply self-indulgent.
This leads me to the other big problem with the novel.
This can be explained as the narrators skewed perspective of his crew, but that's small comfort when you are reading through the 99th speech about how amazing "Navy Men" are.
At a certain point, you can only assume that Brinkley himself really believes the crap that his leading man is spewing.The narrator is continuously following rambling philosophical tangents, wherein Brinkley tries to make him sound intellectual, but this never works.
The only way I made it through the book was by learning how to find the few sentences per page that actually matter, and skimming over everything else.
The confrontation becomes a mission of understanding and cooperation rather than a tragic end to finish the dystopian story in one hail of missiles and to big explosions resulting the the final destruction of those who destroyed the planet in the first missile exchange.
And so the story goes, Nathan James finding more and worse contamination in Southeast Asia and the Russian sub, the Pushkin, begin their separate missions of discovery and hopefully finding the wherewithal to satisfy the needs of both ships and their crews.
It is similar in many ways to "On the Beach" and other doomsday books I have read.
I guess SOME of that would be expected when going through what the crew went through in this book.
ONE reviewer even mentioned having read the book before and deciding to do it, again.
I did not like the way the book started in the middle, went back to the beginning and then back to the middle.
The narrator, aside from his psychotic tendencies, as mentioned above, is just WEIRD about women.
The fact that he could write a book that still reads relatively current from almost 30 years ago is pretty good.
Written from the point of view of the nameless captain (a deep, interesting but sometimes excessively wordy and introspective person), Brinkley's book gets a lot of mileage (618 pp.) out of a stark situation.
It compares on a couple of levels with Brinkley's "The Ninety and Nine," a World War II era novel about the crew of an LST.
For life from the point of view of a captain, I prefer Nicholas Monsarrat or Jan De Hartog--or even Joseph Conrad--but the book held my attention in somewhat the same way that "Swiss Family Robinson" once did.
But it's Swiss Family Robinson with nuclear warheads.
Message to author: I don't think nuclear fallout works the way you think it works.Good concept - nuclear war erupts on Earth, a US Navy Destroyer spends time searching the aftermath for a place they can survive.Unfortunately, the narrator is the Captain of the ship, and the Captain is a dink.
But how he arrives there....ugh.The one really thought provoking bit to come out of this - there's one interesting section of dialogue where the Captain speaks with a Russian sub commander, and they both share that prior to the war, they both viewed it as inevitable.
This book lingered in my mind for weeks after I read it. I sometimes still flash on it. It is the story of the men on a warship after global thermonuclear war. They travel around the oceans and every time you think something is going to go right for them, something worse happens. Gives you a lot to think about. Well worth the read if you like lots of characters and huge books and post apocalytic fiction.
I cant believe I didn't catch this post apocalyptic book in the early 90's. It was great. The only part I didn't like was the detailing of the relationship between the captain and a woman. It was a little too graphic for my taste so I skipped paragraphs as needed. A mention was made at the end of the book about a tale for another book. I'll have to see if Brinkley wrote one. I didn't care for Don't Go Near the Water by Brinkley but this was so different and just the genre I like.
This is a compelling post-apocalyptic novel on par with Nevil Shute's classic On The Beach.How does a warship whose male crew outnumber the female survive after the world ends?Although Brinkley's story is interesting, it is not flawless. The narrator, Capt. Tom Chandler, talks like he swallowed a thesaurus. The reader should be spared the litany of $9 words.And for those expecting the high-octane action of Michael Bay's TV adaptation, they will be disappointed.
Read Alas Babylon instead. Poorly and densely written, replete with anachronistic depictions of male-female relations, and some joltingly unexpected graphic sex. Very difficult to get through.
Just persevere. Not an easy book to read, but the story is worth it. I cannot believe I only discovered this book this year.
The crew experiences a number of unforeseen challenges, and since the book is narrated by the ship’s captain in past tense we get a very nice top-down perspective on the strategies, pitfalls, and generally widespread effects of the events as they play out.
Author used lots of foreshadowing and some symbolism to shape the plot and atmosphere.Some reviews complain about the writer’s style being long winded and boring, but it could be that not everyone can appreciate a navy captain’s perspective nor enjoy reading about the necessary decisions one would have to make and the reasoning behind them.
To me it was a riveting book and I really enjoyed this read.
I took a chance on this one after getting stuck in a reading funk.
Nothing sounded good and I kept wanting to DNF my favorite authors, so I decided to read form a genre that's not typically my go-to.
The plot was good and it makes the book worth reading, but I was really dragging my feet over the writing.
Don't get me wrong, the narrator was good, but the book was written in a style not particularly suited to narration.
Hence why it took me nearly 5 months to finish this dang book.
Lots of technical details on seamanship, war scenarios and nuclear firepower; very engaging storytelling which helps a lot on some slow parts. Overall is a great read.
Ok but I wish there was a sequel.
In this case, I did not feel at all that the author's use of long sentences and big words was great writing and just not my style.
I read a review on Amazon which said that the bad reviews of the writing in this book had to be by people who did not have the intellectual capacity to understand writing "of another time," and that that was what you get when you feed McDonald's eaters a gourmet meal.
END SPOILER All of that criticism aside, I actually liked the story, and thought the way it played out was actually reasonably realistic, although I think the science was off.
