https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/385811.Figures_of_Earth
Mundus vult decipi - the world wants to be deceived - and the happier man is one whose desires remain unfulfilled inform all of Cabell's writing. As the chroniclers write of Poictesme's redemption:  "For although this was a very heroic war, with a parade of every sort of high moral principle, and with the most sonorous language employed upon both sides, it somehow failed to bring about either the reformation or the ruin of humankind: and after the conclusion of the murdering and general breakage
Mundus vult decipi - the world wants to be deceived - and the happier man is one whose desires remain unfulfilled inform all of Cabell's writing.
And, above all, Cabell's acceptance that things aren't all that bleak despite people's foolishness and the futility of desire:
This is the most enjoyable of Cabell's work I've read so far, but I hesitate to recommend him only because he's such an idiosyncratic writer - I've never read anyone quite like Cabell, though I would encourage anyone to try him.
Figures of Earth is a good place to start, but Jurgen or The Silver Stallion are also representative and readable examples of his work.
If I were to guess, I would have said that Cabell was hammering some nails into the coffin of Victorian idealism: first published in 1921, I don't know if Figures of Earth was early or late to the wake, but it seemed to me Cabell was saying, 'Romantic love is a lot of rubbish, and happiness is ephemeral.' That he does so in a charming and pleasant way saves his story from being a downer though it is a bit melancholy near the end.
My thought was to read the Poictesme stories in chronological order rather than in published order, which I will probably still continue, though I don't know if it matters all that much--the point of these books is less the advancement of plot and more the skewering of certain ways of thinking.
Early on, I thought that that Cabell was simply trying to repeat himself and failing, frankly even falling into self-parody, and lacking the brilliance of the earlier book.Then I hit the final third and everything almost made sense to me.
You know, each to their own.I still think Jurgen is not just more accessible and more enjoyable, but also a genuinely better novel than this sequel.
Published in 1921. Delightfully cynical and cynically delightful, and wickedly ironic. It's about the great heroic figure Manuel the Redeemer of the mythical land of Poictesme, and the very unheroic truth about him. Very funny.
A month of days thus spent pass as years for Manuel, so that in due course his young love Niafer, returned sans ageing from the pagan paradise, is presented with a much older-looking and -thinking and -acting Manuel..."Well, well, dear snip," said Manuel, the first thing of all, "now it is certainly a comfort to have you back again."Niafer, even in the rapture of her happiness, found this anunimpassioned greeting from one who had gone to unusual lengths to recover her companionship.
[...] Then, after a moment's consideration of this tall gray stranger, Niafer also looked graver and older."But, while Niafer is dismayed, one of Manuel's political allies is "delighted by the change in Manuel's looks, and said that experience and maturity were fine things to be suggested by the appearance of a nobleman in Manuel's position."Enough written.
Cabell points out in his forward (one of them — he kept writing new ones) that “Figures of Earth” was not an attempt to 'rewrite “Jurgen.”' Which is not to say there are not many similarities.
Not in any hateful manner, but in too much willingness to assign stereotypical roles and character traits.As for Manuel, the protagonist of “Figures,” he lacks both the cleverness and self-doubts of Jurgen and is either “a very wise person or a very unmitigated fool.” He is uncertain which himself.As ever with Cabell, the book is full of inventive detail and a great number of sly references and symbols.
Actually, this is a first edition, but I don't think I can add that to the database.This was a book I'd forgotten I owned, an old, battered hard back which belonged to my father. Kind of hard to rate, because I'm not sure how much the reaction I had was too the book itself. Like all of Cabell's works, it's both well written and depressing. This one is about youthful dreams and the misery of aging. Now I have to re-read Jurgen, because I'd somehow conflated them in memory. A very similar theme, I believe.
Very interesting and unique. I never expected it to be so good.
James Branch Cabell has a clean and clear style that entertains and enlivens.
The humour is mostly very very dry, so much so that I wasn’t even sure it was intentional until coming across passages like this:One day, toward autumn, as Manuel was sitting in this place, and looking into the deep still water, a stranger came, and he wore a fierce long sword that interfered deplorably with his walking.Once I had settled into the writing style I thoroughly enjoyed this book; quirky and humorous but at the same time moralistic.
As I say a moralistic story but somehow never judgemental.Although I did enjoy it, I’m not sure I’m inspired to search out more from Cabell.
In the introduction to Figures of Earth, written to Sinclair Lewis (another early 20th-century writer with whose work I'd like to get better acquainted this year), James Branch Cabell provides an explanation of his own writing that's rather...un-Cabellian.
However, this is complicated by the second issue:2) It's very, very similar to Jurgen.Figures of Earth is ostensibly the biography of Dom Manuel, a character who appears frequently in the shared history of Cabell's Poictesme, but his journey is similar enough to Jurgen's (down to the trio of magical babes he loves and leaves and the picaresque encounters with gods and monsters) to verge on self-plagiarism.
A companion masterpiece to Jurgen, this is rather different because of a rather more serious protagonist.
Though the theme (lost youth) is the same, Manuel's approach is quite different, and his stoic, accidental heroism is a contrast to Jurgen's vainglory.
Also like Jurgen, it is a book where you might well want cliff-notes or some sort of glossary by your side (also, one time when a Kindle's search function would be very welcome!).
I also thought that in the classic fantasy format of the story of a legendary hero and the less-heroic truth of some of his deeds, that it is the direct ancestor of lauded modern works like The Name of the Wind (rather than the epic-quest tradition of J.R.R. Tolkien).
Who influences the influencers - according to many fantasy and satirists alike it was Cabell who's fantasy and wit is wry and dryer than the Mojave. I can definitely see where many of the greats appreciated his craft at the time from Twin, Heinlein, Leiber, Gaiman and Pratchett, but those masters took the craft to another dimension entirely. Read at the risk of curing your insomnia.
Like Jurgen, this is one of the greatest fantasy novels, all the better for being funny (and wise).
really interesting take on high fantasy... I could see why Neil Gaiman lists this as one of his influences. Both humorous and poking fun at the genre and classically high fantastical happenings.
*note to self. Copy from A.
