https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/299947.X_Men
Outstanding story!!! This is a graphic novel in the sense that it’s not a TPB collecting comic book issues previously published separately but it has been always published as a whole book. Also, this particular edition includes sketches by Neal Adams who was intended to be the original illustrator for the book, moreover, some interviews with the creative team.Creative Team:Writer: Chris ClaremontIllustrator: Brent AndersonColors: Steve Oliff DEUTERONOMY 17:2-5  Why?  Because you have no right t
In this graphic novel the X-Men team is: Cyclops, Storm, Wolverine (in his brown suit, yes!), Colossus, Nightcrawler and Kitty Pryde (that she was using the “Ariel” codename at that moment), along the Professor Charles Xavier and Illyana Rasputin (Colossus’ sister but before she’d get her “Magik” appearance, so she isn’t a member of the X-Men but just a student in Xavier’s School).But the X-Men will get an unexpected ally in this story……Magneto!Since, they all are facing a common enemy, and both sides sweared to protect mutantkind.Each side has used different methods to uphold that vow, but after abrupt developments in the cruel conflict, their ways begin to blend in worrisome outcomes.The role of Kitty Pryde in this story has double impact, since she isn’t only a mutant, but she is Jew, so she knows about dealing with hatred without motives… ...and without limits.God help us all.
This graphic novel from 1982 is a great example of that, and it’s an extremely adult storyline that came out several years before Watchmen and The Dark Knight Returns got released and credited with making comics ‘mature’.A religious leader named Stryker has launched a national campaign against mutants.
However, his brutal tactics have brought about a temporary truce between Magneto and the X-Men as they work together to save the Professor and stop Stryker.The storyline here is surprisingly sophisticated and dark for it’s time with the book beginning with the vicious murders of a couple of mutant children.
From the opening panel itself, you'd know this one is NOT going to be a child's play. * Racism, (or Speciesism?)  * Hunting mutants, * Religious blasphemy, * Satanism, * Murdering children, * Genocide, * Fear.This one got it all.The story takes place in US of A where couple of terrorists with mutant powers exists and have carried out some attacks. People are getting scared and they turn to a dangerous man: William Stryker, A religious fanatic who pretty much shouts at the camera about how they n
* Racism, (or Speciesism?) 	* Hunting mutants,	* Religious blasphemy,	* Satanism,	* Murdering children,	* Genocide,	* Fear.This one got it all.The story takes place in US of A where couple of terrorists with mutant powers exists and have carried out some attacks.
People are getting scared and they turn to a dangerous man: William Stryker, A religious fanatic who pretty much shouts at the camera about how they need to stop the mutant kind as they are Satan's tools for Armageddon.
The repeated religious texture of the plot kind of gets a bit boring towards the end.
That's how I choose to view them and since I don't live in America and can't understand the nuances or feel the aftermath of the Africa-American civil rights movement, I can't make criticisms concerning whether or not God Loves, Man Kills gave it a dignified portrayal or not.What I can give a more informed opinion of is the treatment of religious groups for this comic book specifically with Reverend Stryker.
He has witnessed and experienced first-hand (and in the most gruesome way during this comic book) the evil that men like Stryker can inflict on their kind so he might have been convinced just a little bit that now is the time for some of that Might that Magneto has been advocating from the beginning.
5.5 stars!!!  Early Thoughts:  Lately, I have been reading many “X-Men” comics, especially the ones from the 70s and 80s and I have stumbled upon this unique little story. Since I had heard so many good things about this story, I decided to check it out myself and what I got was probably the darkest, most disturbing, most engaging and most brilliant piece of work I have ever read from any comic! This story is called “God Loves Man Kills” and it was an “X-Men” story written by Chris Claremont al
This story is called “God Loves Man Kills” and it was an “X-Men” story written by Chris Claremont along with artwork by Brent Anderson, which was created without the constraints of the comic industry.
Even though this idea has always been the norm for the “X-Men,” Chris Claremont had made this story truly memorable as it was one of the few “X-Men” stories to actually capture the realistic and harsh view of racism and prejudice in our society in a very compelling way.
I also loved the way that Chris Claremont had written the villain William Stryker.
As Stryker prepares for his Nuremberg-rally-esque speech at Madison Square Garden, he manages to capture the Professor and use his psychic powers to nullify the rest of the X-Men.God Loves, Man Kills is an embarrassing early 80s effort from Marvel as they allegedly attempt to address racism in this book.
Also if you're a fan of Astro City, Anderson's style isn't as accomplished there as it is here (though to be honest I'm not a fan of his work in AC either).God Loves, Man Kills is a really overrated book that's hopelessly dated, badly written, poorly conceived and executed, and does nothing to memorably or intelligently talk about racism ("it's bad" is about as deep as it gets).
It's also a bit about Magneto and Charles' different views on how to handle that struggle.
He's not a one note antagonist for the X-Men. In some ways, they have the same goals but Erik just goes about it differently.
Claremont expects me to forgive the use of that word because he's trying to make a point about mutant discrimination being similar to that of racism.
A lot could be said about his character and extremists that exist today.
This was not a particularly great character study for any X-Man. As I said, I loved Magneto the most here but no one was really memorable to me.
In this tale a religious minister with secrets of his own gets the masses to rise up against the mutants while the mutants somewhat ironically try to approach the problem with reason.
As one can expect the affair gets out of hand and superhero tactics ensue.
A lot of this was above average to somewhat good in story elements.
Some of the superheroes had that whole thinking of what I'm going to do while doing it which slows everything down.
ARTWORK: C plus; STORY/PLOTTING: B minus; CHARACTERS/DIALOGUE: B minus; WHEN READ: mid January 2012; OVERALL GRADE: B minus.
Rather, it is a commentary on the influence of religion, especially Evangelical Christianity, on society, juxtaposed with the race struggle as depicted in X-Men comics.This is an influential story, if only that it served as the inspiration for the second X-Men movie and the best critically received of the trilogy.
This is a story that has aged well, as its concerns are still relevant in this days of suicide bombings, Arab Spring uprising and American Conservative revival.Why this book for a Halloween reading?
In this edition, the art has been reduced to comics sized when the original pages were designed for a magazine sized page.
I think whenever someone tells me that they support Trump, I'm going to hand them this book and say, "This is you. These people in this book are you. Look at your life. Look at your choices." It's a very gripping, chilling, and real story about a reverend who has all the power in the world and wants to use it to wipe out mutantkind because they "aren't human beings". The scariest part is how many people support him in his crusade against these people. Horrifying.Check it out, definitely worth the read.
I just couldn't really get into this much.
I get what it's going for, and I know how important it is to talk about racism and address it, but this just didn't work for me.
Maybe it's a product of its time but it felt very...hamfisted?
Best way I can probably describe it.
It starts off interesting enough.
This is kind of, and I really mean KIND OF, a blueprint for X2 but I think X2 is way better.
Good: The themes and the start are solid.
I know people LOVE this story but this didn't do ANYTHING for me.
Throughout we see the classic X-lineup of Cyclops, Storm, Colossus, Nightcrawler, Wolverine and Kitty Pryde (herein called Ariel) shockingly allied with Magneto (who had primarily just been a cackling supervillain up to this point in comics history) rise to the challenges posed by deranged televangelist William Stryker, the origins of whose hateful motivations are revealed in a few shocking panels.Ultimately, though, -and as the panels below showing the aftermath of an altercation between Kitty and a mutant-hating fellow student- what really struck me about this classic X-Men story reading it for the first time in 2017 was how sadly topical it's central metaphor about intolerance and media manipulation remains today, 35 years later.Love is love, people are people, God is a personal choice.
This is the first X Man book I've read. I knew what it was about going in but hearing it and seeing it is so different. This was such a tense book. The first few pages are something you can never unsee. It's heartbreaking. This story is still relevant today and that's such a sad, sad thing.
incrível como essa história continua atual e ainda precisa ser aprendida.
This story of an out-of-control evangelical minister whose goal is to eradicate mutants from the planet seems really relevant to today's political climate. My only complaint is that there are several fake-out deaths. The first time is cheesy, but when it happens again later in the book, it feels like emotional manipulation. However, the message that we should accept those who are different from us is what kept me interested in this book.
Perfect. I’m not sure I ever said that before but it was a perfect book. Also had a great into and interviews at the end too. The prologue stands out as being particularly well done. 5 stars.
God Loves, Man Kills breaks the monthly comic format and delivers an extended mediatation on what it means to be one of societies outsiders via the well known X-Men mutant metaphor and it does it with style and power.A bold statement because there are no enemies here except society itself and Claremont doesn't avoid controversy when he points his finger at the door of either religious intolerance or self-imaging and advertising.
One of the strongest moments in the novel occurs when Charles Xavier goes on TV to face-off in debate against the villain of the piece, William Stryker who believes that mutants are a religious abomination and should be wiped out, cleansed from the earth.
But William Stryker is a great character -- most other anti-mutant demagogues or fundamentalists in comics aren't this fully humanized -- and Claremont of course has a firm grasp on the X-Men. It's also readable without knowing anything about the X-men, and encapsulates the themes, character elements, and superhero elements that have made it an enduring property.
And although I noted that the writing can be obvious, one thing that's struck me about these older comics is that you're never lost.
Pick any issue at random, and you'll be told not only who the characters are and what they can do, but through captions and thought balloons you get what's important to them and what they're struggling with.
Fairly good story. Self-contained, but beefed up the mythos well. Some parts seemed overly dramatic and somewhat stereotypical. The basis of self acceptance and self trust was well played.One shocker for me, being a first time reader, was the use of the Twin Towers as a torture spot...almost a little too close to home. I so miss those beautiful buildings.
This was a really great story. A lot of people call Watchmen required reading, and it definitely is another great comic, but if there was only one comic I could recommend to someone, I would choose this over the Watchmen anyday. Especially with our currently political and religious climate (at least in the US), this is still poignant and necessary. If people really wanted to make america great again, they'd do well to listen to what this book is saying, ijs.
X would be so easily mindwashed or be ready to abandon his convictions at the end of the book.Overall, there was no character development but I did notice a few similarities with the 1st movie.The use of a religious zealot as the villain was pretty cliché and gives a bad rap to religion overall.And I don't remember what the mentality of it was 30 years ago, but I did cring at Kat using the "N-word".Also, she needs to learn that whoever throws the first punch is the bad guy, as much as the guy shooting his mouth out deserved it.
I think the dialogue in comic books (or graphic novels, whatever) suffers more from dating because it's a bit more down-to-earth and colloquial, which makes the language mutations (see what I did there?) more noticeable.Also, a lot of self-explanation in the dialogue occurs, which can be a bit annoying.
And, just as bad, people are still doing stupid ass stuff inspired by religion, thinking of anyone that doesn't agree entirely with them as enemies, and will be doing so as long religion as we know it keeps on existing.But I'd get off-topic if I start going down that road and it's not like I would say anything that we don't already know.Being an X-Men story, this one has a lot of example metaphors for what we do to rationalize our own discrimination.
Hated by humanity because they look different and act different, mutants remain loyal to those who would kill them if they could, and try to talk peace to them.
Because of this, it is easy to see so many different types of bigotry in use: if you want links to the racial civl rights movement, they're there.
Likewise, if you want to see the gay or women's rights movements, they're there as well.
Instead of slogging through thousands of X-Men comics to see all of this, God Loves, Man Kills, is a quick, moving read.
I heard and read a lot about this story and although it was alright, it kind of dissapoints.
I did like the portrayal of Magneto.
I also liked the way Stryker recited biblical passages in the "appropriate" situations.
I didn't like how Professor X was portrayed.
What I did like here was that Cyclops reminded the Professor what the X-Men had gone throug, the sacrifices they made.
I only recommend this to X-Men fans and people who are interested in a standalone story about the X-Men, with situations reminiscent of the persecution by the Nazi's in WW II.
Now this is what an X-Men graphic novel should be! Such an excellent read with an outstanding story and good illustrations. A big thank you to Gianfranco for recommending it!
My first X-Men graphic novel.I raged, I cried, I thought about religion.
Harsh read but still rings trueGod loves, Man kills was done in the 80s and paints a bleak picture of our intolerance whether it's of other races, other creeds, or in this case mutants...well done..sad not much has changed since then.
This was attached to “Days of future past”. The art and tone in Days was dated and cartoonish. Here was opposite: dark, mature themes and violent. William Stryker is crazy dangerous preacher hunting down mutants. Great read.
THE definitive X-Men story. Also Reverend Stryker and his murderous intolerance disguised as righteousness is unfortunately super relevant for our current moment.
The X-Men - caught in the middle - fight to create a world where the two group can live in peace with each other.I’m currently reading the entire Uncanny X-Men comic book series, from the very first issue released in 1963.
When they started releasing new stories again in 1975, Chris Claremont was brought on board.Claremont, who worked on the Uncanny X-Men series for almost 20 years after, literally revived X-Men: raising it from lackluster to one of Marvel’s most popular titles.
