https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/43780.Vampire_Chronicles
"Interview with the Vampire" is its own beast, while the other two go hand to hand as Lestat's answer to Louis' chronicle.
While "Interview with the Vampire" is the better known of all the Vampire Chronicles, and the story is very good, Louis' bleak and whiny vision of the world drags down the reading experience.
Lestat, on the other hand, enhances his own story, making it a very fun read.
Best of the three would be the last one, "The Queen of the Damned", but you do need to read the other two to really enjoy it, else you will be lost.
Anne Rice, you are the queen of vampire stories.
Done with Interview with the Vampire!
I'd read it so long ago that I had forgotten a great deal of it, which left me with the same feeling of satisfaction you get when reading a new book.
Now, on to the Lestat novel!Update- Done with The Vampire Lestat.
Not bad, but I have to say it wasn't quite as satisfying as the previous book was.
There are a lot more things going on in this story, but it somehow doesn't feel as cohesive as Interview with the Vampire did.
Not a bad book, but not as good as the first one in the series.
The rest of the chronicles I'm afraid are centered in the character's old past dwellings and in case that you like lestat -who becomes this super-marysue-laughable character, btw-, or fancied any of the other characters, these are the three books you *want to read*Absolutely a must if you like vampire novels.
Even when the author has grown to be a hated character, she redefined the genre and gave to this monster the human quality that persists today (Buffy, twilight, true blood etc, wouldn't be here if it wasn't for this trilogy).I've read this three books so many times and I still adore each and every one of them!
While the first one is definitely the best, they all deserve 5 stars from me. I love Anne Rice's dark, mystical, romantic style. Great great stories.
Just copying my reviews on the individual books here:I've actually never read this before!
The movie has been stuck in my mind since I was a little girl, so it was WAY overdue that I read it.
I have no idea what the next books are about, so I'll get started on that!A very interesting read!
All the different POVs might slow it down a little bit, but it didn't really bother me.
Lestat's POV later in the book isn't very exciting though.I'm going to give the movie a shot, just because I'm curious about how they made it.
I am looking forward to reading the rest of it.The Vampire Lestat: I actually enjoyed this sequel quite a bit - mostly because I grew to like the characters of the first book so much and while they were not all featured here, the material was all new.
But, I admit to being a bit less eager to read the third volume in the series.Queen of the Damned: I enjoyed this one much more than The Vampire Lestat.
He goes on and talks about his adventure with his pet dogs into the woods to hunt a few wolves that keep attacking the village.
His mother and father order him to go and slay the creatures, so they send him off wit a mare and a nice, powerful gun.
He also suffers a great loss, he loses his dogs and mare.
Lestat stays locked in his room and relaxes with his new dogs that his mother bought him.I gave it five stars because it is a very interesting book, and there is never a dull moment.
Interview with a Vampire- I really liked this book it was as it was described on the back horrible in places but extremely compelling.
I didnt find Louis melancholy to draining.
But I suppose that you can understand the torture of seeing time passing and you remaining the same but i am so glad that we find out that Louis is ok and Gabrielle is still around.The Queen of the Damned- Not a bad read a bit painsful at times considering it dances around from different peoples perspectives but i liked it.
Fine. . .I admit it. I read all three. And they weren't that bad. Except for Queen of the Damned, which i likened to a snowball rolling down a mountain, gradually gaining in size and speed until it destroys a peaceful village below. Only the snowball is made of vampires. And it sucks. Lestat was the best of the three. There. I finally said it. Wow, that's a massive weight off my shoulders.
I got this book for Christmas and I only recently got into it. I have read Interview with a Vampire and enjoyed it very much. I'm about a 1/4 of the way through The Vampire Lestat and am enjoying that very much. It's good to get some foundation on Ann Rice's Vampire Chronicles since I have read several of her other books before these 3. It's taking me so long to finish it because it is a bulky volume and not easy to lug around when traveling.
I am currently only on page 62 of Interview with the Vampire. Already, I can say that this is a compelling read with a lot of philosophical and ethical pondering. It has certainly made me stop reading from time to time and examine my own ethics and philosophies. Already I can see how immortality gives Vampires an eternity to ponder things, and the conclusions they come to ring true even in mortality.
Annie Rice's Vampire is one of lust and Romance. She brings in the era of the Vampire, a new craze that brings about the likes of Twilight Series and the Vampire Diaries. She gave the vampires a face and really shows the true life of a vampire. A fantasy world that is fun to read and without teen drama. Great read and wonderful stories!
Interview with the Vampire was a twisted and disturbing book and I almost did not read on. Since I bought the trilogy all in the same book, I felt like I had to finish the whole thing otherwise I'd be giving up mid-book. I'm so glad I read on because The Vampire Lestat is a much better story and so far I am enjoying The Queen of the Damned.
My family could tell you some stories about me reading these books, but I have to put them on my list because they did profoundly affect me at the time I read them, although it wasn't necessarily for good. I can't deny though that Anne Rice is a very gifted writer and establishes very, very interesting, fascinating characters and stories.
I love Anne Rice and the entire Vampire Chronicles. Interview with the Vampire movie is one of my favorite movies. These books are captivating, dark, and beautiful. I fell in love with some of the characters.
<3Words can't describe how much I loved these three books (put into one simple convenient package!) My favorite of all of them has to be The Vampire Lestat. It completely repainted my image of him from the villian he was in the first book into this deep intriguing epitome of everything human.
Anne Rice is my all time fave writer. The Vampire Chronicles was awesome even if the movies sucked. Read also The Mayfair Witches chronicles and the Taltos chronicles, she truly is an amazing writer.
I love almost every Anne Rice I have layed eyes upon. The Vampire Lestat is still my favourite. oui oui.
Okay, I like vampires... What can I say?
Anne Rice is amazing. At first, I had a hatred for vampires till I read the series and I had a compassion and love for them.
I really enjoyed having all 3 books in one book. Took me a while to get through all 3 of them and I'm not a huge fan of the middle one but overall an awesome set of novels.
I loved these books and couldnt put down "Vampire Lestat", it was a real page turner. These were the first vampire books I read so they hold a special place in my heart. :)
The book is very well written, I love Lestat would have to be my FAVOURITE vampires ever. I recomend this book to everyone becuase of the way it was written.
After realizing that they seem to now be the only vampires living in America, Claudia desires to travel to Europe with Louis and seek out "Old World" vampires.As Louis and Claudia prepare to flee to Europe, Lestat appears, having survived and recovered from Claudia's attack, and attacks them in turn.
There Maharet tells the story of Akasha and the red-haired twins (who are, in fact, Maharet and her sister, Mekare) to Pandora, Jesse, Marius, Santino, Eric, Armand, Daniel, Louis and Gabrielle.
The Vampire Chronicles!Three books starting with my interest on the Interview with the Vampire which had caught my attention 10 years ago, when already it was a classic.The first book was only the beginning, it was kind of like a pilot episode where the actors have yet to find their characters' moods, quirks and lines that we get to love later on as we familiarize ourselves with them.The second book, The Vampire Lestat, was a completely different tone from the first one.
I actually liked that he gained these powers quite early.From the others, I enjoyed to know the psychology in which their characters were created.
I've heard so much about Anne Rice's vampire books and I've seen the movies, but I'm disappointed with the three books in this volume.
On the other hand, all three books were very compelling and I became invested in the characters and their well-being.
I HAD to continue reading to find out what happened to them even though I really didn't want to finish the volume.3 starsDisclaimer – I received this book as a gift from my grandmother-in-law.
I am not paid or compensated in any way, shape or form for this honest review.
I will not change or alter this review for any reason unless at my discretion.
I grew up reading Anne Rice, even though it was far from age appropriate.
But I read too much to not pick up my mother's well-worn paperbacks of Anne Rice and Stephen King.
I could easily see these books remaining my favorites for the rest of my life.While Interview with the Vampire is amazing--Louis's sorrow really sucks you in--I think that The Vampire Lestat might be my favorite of the three.
It really helps to give a better perspective of what's happening and, while it breaks from the other two books that are told exclusively by first Louis, then Lestat, it has to be exactly as it is to tell the story properly.
First of all, I only read the first one. It was kind of beautiful. Disturbing too, but I found myself really caring about the charcters and thinking deeply about life, death, and violence. That makes it a 5 star book in mind.
See individual reviews.
