https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/753243.The_Soul_of_The_Apostolate
Later we read, ‘Our Heavenly Father, “who devotes Himself more to the direction of a soul in which He reigns, than to the natural government of the whole universe and to the civil government of all empires,” looks for this harmony in our zeal.’ Of course prayer (faith) without works would be dead as St. James tells us and Dom Chautard answers, ‘Active works must begin and end in the interior life, and in it find their means.’  In other words, our prayer should lead us to lives of service and commitment to help others convince us of our utter dependence on God. Would that many would read this great classic today.
This book is amazing. If you feel like your a "good" person who's not bad enough to go to Hell, this book will set the flames under your seat and really make you realize how much more you can do to be loved and to love God back.
One of my absolute favorite reads. Absolute wisdom. I highly suggest this to all seeking to live a life pleasing to the Lord.
Took me a while to read and soak this one in, but it's definitely worth it! Dom Chautard's own interior life shines through the words in his work, making it evident that to bear any fruit we must cling to the Vine Himself
This book changed my life. You will read it again from the start after having it :))
This book is so rich it must be read slowy and carefully, a paragraph at a time almost. I keep it next to my bed and am continually going back to reread a certain page or even sentence.
Great book about why and how we need to pray.
In the process, he learned that hard work and determination, things that we often hold in high esteem, in fact are useless in the Christian life without a solid spiritual life.
Why would one say that the spiritual life is more important than hard work in the ministry?
But if he does not keep a good spiritual life, his cause will become meaningless and his work less than futile.
Do you wish to be effective in bringing Christ to others?
Read this book!How many good Christians throw themselves into the busy work of the apostolate without recognising that the key to effectiveness in God's Kingdom is a deep and thriving interior life?
Dom Chautard lays out the principles of the interior life and gives convincing arguments about its absolute necessity and priority in relation to the active apostolate.This book should be read by every Christian who takes the Great Commission seriously (that ought to be every Christian!) and its message put into practice.
After several attempts over the years, I will again try to read Soul of the Apostolate during Lent. Previously, I found it difficult to connect with the author despite the clarity with which others talk about the book.
Recommended by James Schall in Another Sort of Learning, Chapter 16, as one of Eleven Books on Prayer, Belief, and Reflection.Included in the "Spiritual Reading" section of Fr. John McCloskey's 100-book Catholic Lifetime Reading Plan.
The handbook for missionary/Catholic Christian life...
Full of thought provoking and spiritually enlivening insight and advice.
A must-read!
an amazing work for anyone.
Long detailed sentences with high level vocabulary, this is not a light, quick read, but one that must be read slowly, prayerfully, with attention and focus.I was repeatedly amazed how a book written in the mid 1940s could sound like it was written in modern early 21st century times.
References to hectic lifestyles just made my laugh out loud sometimes -- how much more hectic lives are now than they were then!Really, this book brings to the forefront the importance of prayer and connection with God -- always.
A modern spiritual classicWhile I would not recommend this as the first spiritual book one reads (that honor goes to Introduction to the Devout Life), this is the book for anyone who desires to enter more deeply into the devout life. A must-read for seminarians, deacons, and priests, and highly recommended for all those who want a richer prayer life and union with God.
This book is a little hard to read because of the older writing style (and maybe because it was translated from French, not sure). It seems to be written mostly for priests and religious but many of the lessons are applicable to the "laity" too.The key concept is that we must have an interior life focused on God so that through His graces we can achieved that which He wills for our lives.
Incredible and increasingly important in today's culture of constant action.
Read this over a retreat last year and it helped me to remember that if I'm not with Christ my ministry is worthless.
This book has a lot of MEAT. More people should savour the juicy thickness of this meat. It takes you by the hand from technical comparisons between active work without interior life and active work imbued with interior life, to the contemplation of the core of the interior life itself.
One of my all-time favorites. This is an important read. It never ceases to remind me that a strong exterior life begins with a strong interior one. Otherwise, I'm not doing anything for Christ, just spinning my wheels. This book is best read slowly, prayed through even. I've used it off and on for morning prayer time for years.
The book was an intentionally slow read. It is too rich to rush through. A very worthwhile read as our Church continues to struggle with an active life properly motivated by a praying heart. I have an old hard bound, hand size edition translated and published by Our Lady of Gethsemani Monastery in 1946.
I absolutely love this book. It is filled with so many gems that one can never tire of re-reading this book. I am a teacher and this book has taught me well to successfully mix the active life while keeping it grounded in God and contemplation. For one who desires peace of soul this is the book to read. Make sure you have a pen and page markers!
Rigorous. Strong. A must-read for any Catholic serious about practicing the Faith. Should be read more than once through, studied and deeply understood. Keenly addresses the problem of shallow "doing good" actions versus the true prayerful response of faith.
An exposition (eloquent, a bit dated, practical, hard-hitting) of the need for all our active works (apostolates) to be founded in our interior life, that is, our continued relationship with Jesus Christ. Worth the read. Good for daily reading before work, I would think.
A must read for priests. Great material for retreat reading.
For those who wish to grow Spiritually, the best book I have found to truly understand what it means to undertake the Apostolate.
at the end there are some exercises which are totally awesome. They involve visualizing yourself burning in hell and meditating on what you would have changed in your life.
http://aspenglow24.blogspot.com/2016/...
