https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/350864.The_White_Witch_of_Rosehall
I first read Orlando Patterson's Children of Sisyphus, which is one of the best novels that I have read, and now Herbert De Lisser's "The White Witch of Rosehall".
His use of the language and descriptions of the island are a pleasure to read, and the novel is well structured and interesting at all times.However, the plot seems dated.
I also found Annie's background very interesting: from her Irish ancestors to her initiation in the occult in Haiti and the legend she becomes in Jamaica.De Lisser's novel is very different than Patterson's, for the "Children of Sisyphus" is a novel as raw and eye openeing as it is realistic.
I think what I actually had read was literature from the Rosehall Plantation and I just thought I had read this book.
. But I hadn't been here a day before I was making love to a woman I knew nothing about, and I hadn't been here a week before I was philandering with one of the native girls, and drinking lots of Jamaica rum, and neglecting my work, and beginning to ruin my constitution .
. I am only a rash, impulsive fool, after all, not the paragon I imagined myself to be." So, the lesson to be learned is if you go to Jamaica, be prudent.
This was written in 1929 and some of the language reflects that time.
I enjoyed the book, it was a fun read.
But I could never figure out why two completely different women would fall in love SO QUICKLY with this semi-interesting guy (main character).
And, could never understand his feelings for Annie (the White Witch), because she was so awful to him, and to everyone around her.
Why would two of the men in the story be so in love with her?
These things didn't make sense to me, so I didn't invest a lot of hope that the book would be very good.
It was fun to read though.
this historical novel by a well respected caribbean author gave me a real sense of the colonial history of jamaica. it also highlights the infamous story of anne palmer, the reputed witch of rose hall. (the rose hall building still stands, restored and owned by a resort, and it is reputed to be haunted.) the book truly took me back in time. it is atmospheric, and i loved envisioning familiar locales hundreds of years ago, and getting a deeper sense of the history of jamaica. this book is a keeper that i re-read on steamy summer days.
Growing up in Jamaican, and having lived in the general area, I have driven past the plantation numerous times and I have been exposed to the story of Annie Palmer and Rosehall from a very young age.
Due to explicit implications of curses and hauntings whenever the legend was told, I was always very fearful of the Annie Palmer story and had actively avoided reading it for some time.
As a result of ALL that build up I felt let down because it turned out to be more of a love story than anything else.It's hard for me to say how someone who doesn't know anything about the legend of Annie Palmer would experience the story.
He instantly falls in love with the mistress of the house, Annie Palmer, who has been married 3 times before.
Slowly but surely, Robert starts realizing that there might be some truth behind the town gossip and personally sees how it is that such a fragile woman could go about committing these murders.
I'll leave you with that, so you can read the rest of the book and figure out what Annie is up to.
The protagonist, Robert, is very bland; I ended up liking Rider more than any of the other characters.
Annie Palmer was a very creepy and sadistic character.
I read this book because we went to the Rose Hall plantation in Jamaica. It was interesting to learn more about Annie Palmer and a little history of Jamaica. I am sure a lot of the story is not factual but it was an easy interesting read.
Wrote my thesis on this novel.
This is not really comparable to authors such as Anthony Winkler or Andrea Levy who can deliver us to Jamaica with only their words.
A better story than I had hoped.
The author de Lisser relates events on a Jamaican sugarcane plantation of Rosehall, run by Annie Palmer, a woman who controls others through their fear of her obeah powers, and the overseer Ashman.
The background around 1830-31 provides further ominous activity as the Baptist War associated with the Sam Sharpe rebellion brings the visceral sounds of drumbeats from surrounding estates and the looming stoppage of fieldwork.
The author's powers of description proved a joy to read, in my opinion, capturing both the beautiful scenery and the Islanders' exuberant expressiveness.
Some people say that the legend of infamous Rosehall started with this novel of historical fiction.
Read this for classI liked the plot. The characters were solid. Wasn't the ending I was expecting however it was a good ending.
Could not finish, and I usually never give up on a book!
A ten-star novel. One of the best I have read. Interesting and fascinating until the very end. An exotic Gothic setting and an interesting plot. I definitely recommend it!
Oh, the drama.
Interesting historical read. What's even more interesting is how much of the narrative has been adapted as fact into the Rosehall tour on Jamaica itself.
Great read. I wanted to know more after visiting the Rose Hall House in Jamaica. This was an easy read. Enjoy!
I enjoyed the supernatural element most of all in the novel. I actually wish that there was a lot more of it. Then there is the love triangle started off interesting but then kind of fizzled away I think. I don't even think love is the right word that any of them feel for each other.
One of the things I loved about the story is that it takes place on the Caribbean island of Jamaica during the late 1800's - early 1900's, an important transition time where the world was advancing in modern ways, and tales of black magic and ghosts were slowly being forgotten.The antagonist is a young widow who owns a sugar cane plantation, and she is both wealthy and beautiful, but runs her slave workers with an iron fist.
Originally published in 1929, "a very striking and curious story," as promised in the frontispiece,"founded on fact, of the West Indies of the early nineteenth century." The author was editor of a West Indian daily newspaper, "The Gleaner" and author of 3 other books, some of which were praised by Somerset Maugham.Like most old books--as separate from "classic" authors--the book is very characteristic, in its tone and attitudes of a particular time and place.
I love that about old books, but they are not great art and great ideas, so I'm not sure this will be to everyone's taste.
I bought this book in Jamaica at Rosehall after the "Bewitching" tour and found it to be a book I enjoyed reading quite a bit which to be quite honest, surprised me.
My only problem is, now that I have completed the book I want to go back to Rosehall again as I feel I "know" the place!
The author details everything so explicitly and in such great description, I feel I "know" the place and it's history much better and want to revisit the plantation I have conjured up in my mind's eye
I was glad to pick this up at the Rose Hall in Jamaica as a fun fictional take on the actual story. And it was that, and somewhat enjoyable. But didn't really carry itself well, lacked substance, and basically I hated both the main characters for very different reasons than I was supposed to. So, I'm glad I read it, but I wouldn't give it many stars. I'm still glad to have it on my shelf as a souvenir of a great trip! The Rose Hall itself was a great place to visit and i recommend it to everyone!
This is the book that is in every tourist spot in Jamaica. Written in 1958 about the slavery, plantation life and voodoo practices of the West Indies in the early 1900's. It is a story based on fact and is about one of the wonderful estates near Montego Bay. H L Mencken said that it was "extremely readable". It is definitely dated but should be on the reading list of everyone that has been to Jamaica.
Not really a story interesting enough to warrant an entire book, but it was okay. Initially, I just couldn't resist a book about a woman who had murdered her 3 husbands. Really was fascinated after visiting Rosehall in Jamaica. The books gets a bit mundane at times with a lot of descriptions of the scenery. A couple chapters seemed liked "filler". Don't read this unless you really LOVE historical fiction.
This was potentially one of the worst books I've ever read. It's so trite and jam-packed with superfluous descriptors that I would believe you if you told me that a 13 year old got a thesaurus for her birthday, decided to participate in NaNoWriMo, and this was the result. It's incredibly jumbled, and the inconsistencies in the characters make them seem less real, not more. I don't recommend this at all. Not even a little bit.
For being a required reading book for my LIT2010 class, it wasn't bad at all. If I were going through the library, I wouldn't pick out this book because it isn't a genre that interests me. But it is definitely a good book and worth reading if you like weird witchery and novels based in the Caribbean.
Read by barbs recommendation. Was really drawn out. Went on forever about stuff that didn't seem important, rather than more actions and in depth "feelings" from the main characters. The characters fall in love so quickly it seemed confusing and silly. Did like the end when if 1 choice was made differently than the outcome would have been way different (someone would have lived and not died).
I got this book at the airport in Montego Bay Jamaica on the recommendation of the shopkeeper. The story is set in Montego Bay in the 1800's. I thought the story was ok and was probably better because I was able to picture the country in my head.
Picked this book up in Jamaica at the Rosehall Plantation - great read. Has a lot of slang, and several spelling/print errors due to the time in which it was written, but the story is fascinating. Very eye opening as to the history of Jamaica. Loved it!
I first heard about the haunted plantation house that once belonged to Annie Palmer when I passed by it in a Taxi in Jamaica. The story intrigued me and I immediately had to find this book to read! This novel by De Lisser did not disappoint! It was a nice quick read that I could not put down!
I wasn't too sure about this book at first, but I believe there's a lot to be gleaned from its pages in terms of gender politics within the time-scape of the end of slavery in Jamaica. Lisser has written a rich book when it comes to wider analysis on this topic.
