https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/333296.The_Major_Works
While an authour is yet living we estimate his powers by his worst performance, and when he is dead we rate them by his best. By the time you put down Boswell’s Life of Samuel Johnson, you are left with a very peculiar portrait of the man. Boswell’s Johnson is a bull, who tramples bystanders in a stampede of wit. He is arrogant, overbearing, stubborn, and delightfully epigrammatic—the kind of man you would like to overhear, but would not wish to talk to. So cartoonish, in fact, did Johnson appe
One frequently comes across singe-sentence paragraphs where, without any appearance of labor, Johnson manages to capture a thought that would have taken most other writers three or four busy paragraphs to express half so fully, and a third so well.All joy or sorrow for the happiness or calamities of others is produced by an act of the imagination, that realizes the event however fictitious, or approximates it however remote, by placing us, for a time, in the condition of him whose fortune we contemplate; so that we feel, while the deception lasts, whatever motions would be excited by the same good or evil happening to ourselves.The portrait Johnson paints of himself is quite different from Boswell’s.
I can't say that I love Johnson; but I feel, for better or for worse, that he is a part of me now.The following sub-reviews concern what I deem to be the most important works in this collection, and were written at various points during my reading.The Vanity of Human Wishes: 4/5I had to read this a few times (over the span of several months) to realize that it is a great poem.
Worth reading in conjunction with Johnson's other works, but not so much on its own.Prefaces, Biographical and Critical, to the Works of the English Poets: 3/5If these pieces afford any interest to the modern reader, it is in regards to the criticism, not the biography.
I have an unaccountable affinity for Samuel Johnson, that giant of the 18th century, whose work is often considered ponderous and dated these days.
This is probably the best single-volume collection of Johnson's work.
My favorites are the best of the essays from The Rambler, The Idler, and The Adventurer (three magazines for which Johnson provided weekly essays), Rasselas, and three of his poems, the long poems "London" and "The Vanity of Human Wishes," and the biting, satirical "To Sir John Lade, on His Coming of Age."
Johnson is the greatest critic in the language; not least because he writes for the common reader and because he is at pains to illuminate the texts he examines and not complicate them (cf. any number of modern critics).
Because of the influence of Harold Bloom and Michael Wenzl, I have become a Johnsonian reader (to say that I am a Johnsonian critic is perhaps going too far and overtly flattering myself), and I am consistently amazed by my conversations with people who have no basis for analyzing or evaluating human creativity beyond, "duh, I don't know, I just liked it." Aesthetic pleasure as a critical paradigm is fine, but please learn to enunciate that, people. You might start in the training of your brain by reading Johnson.
Sermon 5 was the only reason I bought the book. It had some good points in it. I realized that Samuel Johnson was opposed to the American Revolution (of course! He was British!) but for reasons that seem to contradict the rest of his thinking. Interesting thoughts but very worldly.
Pretty good - included his Ramblers, and Idlers, the lovely story Rasselas & how much Johnson hates Shakespeare
My intention was to read only "Rasselas" and "The Vanity of Human Wishes" but I ended up reading all of the essays and poems and samples of several other pieces.
I could have read a hundred more essays but the very 'Inside Baseball' biographical sketches and criticisms of the poets put the brakes on my fascination with Johnson, even though I've read Milton and Pope, and was thus familiar with his subjects.My reading of Johnson coincided with the 2016 US presidential election.
Is that relevant?
Brilliant. Highly quotable. A justly honored essayist and wit of English letters. "Many of the books which now crowd the world may be justly suspected to be written for the sake of some invisible order of beings, for surely they are of no use to any of the corporeal inhabitants of the world." ---from Johnson's 1757 "Review Of Soame Jenyns."
Recommended for students of literary history, linguistics (chapter about development of the first English language dictionary) and social customs of 18th century England (essays and letters). Not my cup of tea.
A nice, (and concise) reference book if you like Johnson's work.
He had lots of smart things to say. Of course the quicker way to find out what they were is to google "Samuel Johnson quotes."
Likely the greatest prose writer in English. Clear, to the point, and with forceful eloquence; one of the few writers where your main thought is: "I wish I could write this well"
Read parts of this for my Neoclassicism seminar with Bruce Rose at BJU.
