https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/91479.Death_Masks
I mostly like this series. However, I'm certainly not a die hard "Dresdenite" from the Church of Harry. Dresden is NOT my literary BFF and, truth be told, spends far more time languishing under the heading OAA (Occasionally Annoying Acquaintance). I like the stories (so far), but that enjoyment comes with some mondo qualifications and some serious groans. However, before I rail against the main character's penchant for lame cheesy-flavored popCORNY, I'm going to begin with what I think are the
However, before I rail against the main character's penchant for lame cheesy-flavored popCORNY, I'm going to begin with what I think are the real bright spots of this book, and the series.
Like the worldbuilding, Harry's spells, wards and magical abilities are pretty well “grounded” and explained, and this gives them enough realism to make their presence a compelling part of the series.Again, for this aspect of the book and the series, I would say 5 STARS ALL THE WAY.
Unfortunately, my biggest gripe with the book, and the series, has to do with good old Harry himself, beginning with the “dialogue” exception I mentioned above.
What I noticed right away after reading the first few chapters would be that the series has a routine.
It starts of with Harry complaining about his broke life, then a lover appears or a new villain.
Harry Dresden himself is obviously unforgettable, but I'll need more than one to really enjoy the novel.
Murphy and Michael are also old favorites, but I need new ones.
I'm not fond of the Harry-Susan love team.
I didn't like that this novel focused more on their relationship too, aside from the duels Harry had.
Susan has this pretentious vibe that I never really liked right from the start.
This is my favourite Dresden File to date because for the very first time reading this series, I actually felt emotional resonance.
As I have alluded to in quite a few of my other reviews, emotional investment a significant factor in determining whether the book is merely good or great, for me.
I'll end this short review by saying that this was also the first time I felt like starting on the next volume immediately after finishing one of the Dresden Files.
That alone probably indicated how much I enjoyed Death Masks.This review can also be found at Booknest
3ish stars. To anyone who still isn't convinced that Harry is a chauvinistic, narcissistic douchebag:  "My blasting rod thumped against my leg rhythmically."  Blasting rod, eh? Someone's cocky (pun intended?).  "I gathered in my will and settled my grip on my blasting rod.""I jerked the tip of the blasting rod up and away from the girl, releasing the gathered energy."  Wow, Harry. First of all ew. Second, woman, not girl, that's demeaning- and to think you consider yourself chivalrous. Third, en
3ish stars.
To anyone who still isn't convinced that Harry is a chauvinistic, narcissistic douchebag:
"My blasting rod thumped against my leg rhythmically."
Blasting rod, eh?
Someone's cocky (pun intended?).
"I gathered in my will and settled my grip on my blasting rod.""I jerked the tip of the blasting rod up and away from the girl, releasing the gathered energy."
Wow, Harry.
Second, woman, not girl, that's demeaning- and to think you consider yourself chivalrous.
Third, enough with the" blasting rod" talk, a little humility would do you some good.
"She frowned at me until I coaxed the blue beetle to life and pulled out."
Harry has no choice but to accept, and almost no hope of winning the duel.
A catholic priest - who doesn't believe in magic - needs Harry's help in finding the Shroud of Turin, which stolen by a trio of thieves, on of which has turned up very dead.
Jim Butcher cleverly twists religious history and the occult, and builds on events from the previous books without you needing to have read them.
I hope there is less war and more investigations into creepy magical beings in the future books.
Poor Harry Dresden.You sweet, oddly sexy, powerful wizard. You just CAN'T catch a break! I adore this series and I adore listening to it on audio. I think James Marsters just keeps getting better and better. I can hear a wider range of voices in this one than in the previous books, and he is so SO DAMN PERFECT as Harry Dresden. I could listen to these books all day, every day. Interestingly, a lot is left hanging at the end of this book. I can't wait to see where the next few books take me!
Harry Dresden can't catch a break...
This changed things a lot." pg 28In case you haven't read the first four entries in this series: Harry Dresden is a wizard for hire.
Surely not." pg 110If I was a male wizard, I think I'd be something like Harry.
He protects children and holds the door for women.He likes to drink, wears a leather duster and can't seem to sleep even when he's exhausted.Aren't we all, in some ways, Harry Dresden?
I am a fan of The Dresden Files despite the fact that it can seem formulaic.
I think Harry Dresden is worth the read.Thanks for reading!
[4.5 Stars]The best one yet!
Things seem to be going pretty well...till a major Red Court vamp noble shows up as another guest (known to the world as a debunker of paranormal beliefs of course, not a vampire).We'll not go into the damage done when Harry loses a bit of emotional control.One of the other guests is a representative from the Vatican.
"Father Vincent" also debunks the paranormal.The priest and the Vampire are not really in town to appear on Larry Fowler of course (big surprise, right?)..and the real reasons they are in town have to do with Harry (well, if they didn't we wouldn't have a book).
Reasons to read this book.1.
Harry Dresden is a believable character.
He learns, he grows, but he does not gain a new power every book.
In fact, he doesn't seem to gain any power in any of the books.
He gains awareness and knowledge.
2. Susan is cool, but flawed like Harry.
Love her.3.
Godfather with a helicopter.4.
One of the best love/sex scenes I have ever read.
Butcher could write a good romance novel.5.
Good female detective who has smarts.6.
Butcher knows his myth, legends, and religion.8.
A woman who knows how to make armor.10.
A good cat.11.
Anyone with a holy sword and Crusader Armor is interesting in my book.Molly - The Fourteen year old daughter of the Fist of God. She was hilarious, a little bit of a romantic and full of enough teenage rebellion to be interesting but not annoying she was one of my favorite new additions.“Ohhhh,” Molly said wisely.
I haven’t fallen in love with Harry’s character enough yet to want to plow through 15 books before I move onto something else like has happened to me with a few of the other series I really love.Still Harry is a good dude to hang out with and go on a ride into crazytown.
I can see that there was genuine love between them, and I can't help hoping that works out in the future.I think that Harry gains a lot of personal growth in this book, acquiring new allies along the way, and realizing that there are people who really do believe the best of him and trust him to do the right thing.
I think that even though Harry has some really obvious flaws, he's a good guy that I'm very fond of and I always look forward to spending time with him.Like most of the books in this series, the secondary characters are great.
I did remember some parts of the book from the first time I read the story but I had forgotten most of the details.
It has been about a year and half since I listened to the last book in this series and I really enjoyed spending a little bit of time with Harry Dresden once again.
One thing that I love about reading a series like this is how well you get to know each of the characters.
I do think it is also a lot of fun to re-read a longer series like this because the groundwork for future events is being laid.
Best one yet, what a great ride! :D
I'm only two months behind on the series read.Another great outing from Harry Dresden.
I think her development makes sense and I do hope she appears again in later novels.One of the delights of this series is that Dresden really can count on his friends and that his friends are there for him.
Even if this sometimes leads to sadness and heartbreak.Harry survived for another adventure.
Dresden can be pretty sneaky when he needs to be to find things out and the reveal about Marcone definitely put him in a new light.I'll definitely be continuing with this series.
Pretty good stuff right here, but damn it, I wish Harry would stop being so helpless and foolish 80% of the time ;__; He's been "weak" in comparison to the challenges he has faced (at least he outsmarts them in other areas, and he has friends and connections to help him), so I've been hoping he could finally have a bloody level-up.
4.5 stars I read the first few chapters then switched to audio. James Marsters' narration is perfect and definitely kicked the story up a notch for me.Knocked off 1/2 a star because I really can't stand the sexual tension between Harry and Susan. Is it truly love, or just lust? Had we had more relationship development between the two in earlier books maybe I wouldn't question it. Otherwise, never a dull moment and some interesting new characters on the scene.
It's ok. I like Harry enough now to continue reading. Book 4 was definitely better.
But there was just so much stuff in here that has later relevance, and I didn't care about ANY OF IT the first time through.Stuff that happens in this book:•A priest hires Harry to find the Shroud of Turin, yes THE Shroud of Turin, after it was stolen by a group of thieves.•A man is found dead with evidence showing he was killed by multiple fast-acting diseases at the same time, many of them (like the Black Death) long gone from the world.•Susan shows back up to collect her things and quit her job, and to say goodbye to Harry in a more permanent fashion.•One of Johnny Marcone's thugs tries to kill Harry outside of a television studio.•Harry is challenged to a duel by a Red Court vampire.
URGGG TEARS.Here is a list of stuff that takes on way more significance now that I've read the whole series:•I really didn't like the Denarians the first time through.
That Nicodemius is one tricksy Demon! Good to see the three Knights working together in the story. We meet Butters,a significant addition in books to come. Harry and Susan manage to hang out for a while. A duel is fought. Marcone’s secret is out. Harry wins to fight another day. Another book down in my reread campaign, killing time until the next book is published. Soon I hope!
https://poseidons99.wordpress.com/201...
Good pace, interesting plot elements, new nasties along with some old ones, and great audio narration by James Masters.
But at the same time, a wizard still has to eat and pay bills, so when the Vatican shows up with a job for Harry offering real money (rather than the customary burning at the stake) our wizard for hire finds himself on the hunt for an artifact that will see him cross paths with things a whole lot worse than vampires.So why is this 3 stars instead of the customary 4?
But the side story takes up a lot of the book, and it involves some interesting new characters like Kincaid and the Archive, but it just never services the main story!
I love Harry Dresden. He cracks me up! This guy is definitely a lovable loser. Everybody wants to kill him, and he's pretty much accepted that as his definition of normal. "I get more threats before nine a.m. than most people get all day."...the risk of imminent death just didn't hit me the same way it used to...Susan asked, "Do you really think you can win?""Yeah. Hell, Ortega is only the third or fourth most disturbing thing I've tangled with today.""But even if you do win, what does it change
So, in this book Harry is trying to find the stolen Shroud of Turin.
But, get in line, Death-Prophecy, there are a bunch of vampires who wanted to kill Harry first!
And they have sent one of their war lords to offer Harry a deal: have a duel to the death with him and the matter is settled.
That's not going to go well.The good news is that he will probably die way before duel day because of all of the demons who are trying to kill him.As for Harry's (non-existent) love-life, we get Susan showing back up to give him the "it's not you, it's me" speech.
In my opinion, the best book so far in the Harry Dresden series.
It feels to me like Butcher has found his stride and as a result that Harry has found his centre.
Although the vampires get things rolling in this book, the Harry-Red Court conflict gets pushed to the side as he deals with bigger issues.
Awesome use of Judas’ thirty pieces of silver!One of the things I appreciate most about this series?
Too bad that she can’t stay—she would provide a good balance to Harry.
Okay, I think I am ready to board the Dresden bandwagon.
Due to characters growth and alliances I recommend that this series be read in order.We spend time with Michael, his family and other Knights of the Cross as Harry finds himself dealing with a vampire of the Red Court who wants a duel and a priest who wants Harry to find a lost object for him.
It seems others want it as well and are even willing to kill for it.In the meantime, Harry's old girlfriend Susan shows up and things get mighty interesting.
With each book we see Harry go through growth and this remains true in Death Masks.
Previously I was just a casual Dresden Files-fan, I really liked the earlier books (Summer Knight, Grave Peril, Fool Moon, Storm Front), but I didn't outright loved them...
The book was action-packed, hair-raising thrilling, nailbitingly suspenseful, wildly humorous with mindblowing twists-turns and a GREAT villain.
And what can I say about Harry Dresden, the ultimate wisecrackin' Badass that hadn't been said already?
Yeah, you just can't help but love the guy.
Anyway, all in all, this was a fantastic thrillride through the magical, deadly, beautiful, funny and LOVABLE universe of Harry Blackstone Copperfield Dresden.
7/10This was a reread of sorts for me, the little lady was at this point in the series is doing them on audiobook and we had a journey up to Edinburgh so decided to do it together.
I was keen to hear James Marsters narrate and when I originally read this book I was on holiday in New England and my reading concentration was way down.The story is interesting enough but it's not up in the top reaches of the series, in fact due to the stellar stories in this series this could be seen as one of the weakest.
EDIT: Enjoyed it way more this time as I knew how subtly Butcher dropped clues about Harry's past and future here and there.3.5Fifth book of the series.
So Harry’s journey covers a dual challenge from vampire Ortega (red court battle), finding the stolen shroud (case), return of his half-vampire girlfriend Susan (surprise) and his fight with supernatural creatures (his usual stuff).Michael made his came back in the book with other two knights.
The base of the story was finding the stolen shroud.
Gentleman John Marcone’s appearance in the book was the other surprise and him helping Harry in retrieving the Shroud was even more fascinating.
Harry Dresden, Chicago's practicing wizard and private detective has finally scraped up another case.
Also on the scene is the love of Harry's life, ex-girlfriend and partial vampire, Susan.
Oh yes, there is also a headless armless corpse that Officer Murphy needs help with, the ongoing war between the wizards and the red vampires, 3 Knights of God (one of whoms wife still dislikes Harry a great deal), and Marcone, the local mob boss , gunning for him.
Did I mention the duel to the death with a vampire mediated by a little girl?
When does this man sleep?I love this series.
All you can do is keep on keeping on, and try to believe that tomorrow will be what it should be- even if it isn't what you expected."- Jim Butcher, Death Masks.That mostly sums up the story.
I hope good things are yet to come, and when they come, they will be like a continuous wave of excitement.
I liked the actions on Death Masks.
And all things worked out pretty well to sum up a nice blend of storytelling.I liked it.
And if you are a fan of Dresden universe, you would like it too.
