https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/93722.The_Boy_Next_Door
Well it is almost 1 o'clock and I just finished this book.
But despite those 2 things it was just a really fun easy read which I am all about there is enough crap in this crazy world I would rather read a feel good love story.
I loved it also because it is was so different from other books.
It is written all in e-mails, which you think might not carry the story very well but it did.
I keep thinking ok one more e-mail and I'm going to bed.
I can't wait to read the next book in this series.
When I'm asked what my favorite book is, this always comes into my head because I was just so entertained. I don't know how Meg Cabot did an all-email book and make it so amazing. She is definitely a talented author!
This was so much fun. I mean, I saw the ending coming from a mile away and it was mega cheesy, but still, SO FUN. I can't believe I waited so long to start this series. Meg Cabot is my queen
What I particularly enjoyed about this book is the originality of the writing style. The book is written in a modern epistolary fashion, it develops through the emails the various characters exchange.The story is witty, there is a little bit of a mystery to solve, which I always enjoy, and the book overall is light and refreshing.
She really likes her neighbor Mrs. Friedlander and feels bad for her 2 cats and dog (a great dane named Paco - who has a Great Dane in NY City?!?!) so Mel takes care of the animals while Mrs. Friedlander lays in a coma.
Walking the dog every morning before work causes Mel to be late ALOT and finally her friend's Nadine and Dolly help her track down Mrs. Friedlander's only living relative - her nephew Max Friedlander.
The neighbor is Mel and she is a sweet little Red-head (Be still his heart) and she is super nice and she seems to like him too.
Though, the Hertzogs are just as amusing but a lot more dysfunctional-and that’s saying something since Daddy Trent is in jail.I think the style that this book is written in-emails, notes, phone messages, etc.
I often wonder if I would’ve like her vampire series better if it had been written in this style, because there is really something perfectly done that most authors never can get right but Meg Cabot does.Yes, there are the typical Cabot tropes that are used throughout the book.
After I was halfway through, though, the book began to drag quite a bit and I was annoyed with most of the characters.
The magic of the cute romance faded for me as well because even if it was cute, when it came to the romance, the e-mail format of this book failed for me because it was too much telling-not-showing and I thus felt pretty detached from the characters at some point.Nevertheless, this was a fun brain candy read, which even if it started to disappoint me after the awesome beginning, was still an okay read that took my mind off of things.
I wasn't sure I was going to be able to finish this one because, while there were some things I genuinely liked about the email format in which it was written, the format overall left me wanting.
After a little while, I found myself engrossed, wanting desperately to find out who attacked the neighbor and whether or not Mel and John would get together (OK, so admittedly I knew this was an inevitability since it's a romance novel, but it's still nice reading about those moments).
I even found myself liking the main character, even though I had very little in common with her.Mel was cool.
Yup. Are you starting to understand my embarrassment in reading this book?So there’s several problems with this book, most of which can be summed up by the statement that another reader scrawled on the title page of the copy I read from the public library: “This book is stupid.” Meg Cabot has written many young adult novels, some of which I’ve enjoyed in the same fluffy, don’t make me think kind of way that I had hoped to enjoy this one.
The real problem with The Boy Next Door (aside from the obvious fact that it is written in the whole email format!) is that the characters behave like teenagers.
Let’s face it – what girl would not love a guy (and such a guy, too – and I don’t mean (view spoiler)[the riches, I mean the whole ‘taking care while sick, doing the dishes’ thing (hide spoiler)]) to fall for her this hard?
I hated it, because I thought it meant abusing her trust and taking things much too far, (hide spoiler)] and I am deducting half a star for it.All in all, this book is loads of fun, and it goes straight to my comfort read shelf.MTA: Still loving this.
I was so freaking hesitant to try another series by Meg Cabot..
I felt like after the half way point I was just skimming (or I wanted to at that point) through the pages because it seemed so freaking slow!
The characters were annoying for more than half of the book as well - which is why I mentioned earlier that they were forgettable to me.Mel and John, the forgettable characters, were boring.
Again, it had some funny parts in the first half of the book but then you will get easily annoyed with everything that's happening in this book.
I friggin' love Meg Cabot.
Not only did The Princess Diaries teach me more about adolescence (and New York) than my mum I would argue this book kicked off my obsession with romance novels.
Evil guy Max Friedlander is terribly hilariously awful and Dolly?
A decade on The Boy Next Door is as funny and relevant as it was when I first read it.
It works like HELL because no one does first person narrative like Meg Cabot (see The Princess Diaries).
Okay, I'm gonna stop now before I have a love attack but seriously, I adorethis book so much
Cabot's hilarious humor in a book filled with emails?I'm not a big fan of chick-lit, but what can I say? Meg Cabot always knows how to make me laugh out loud and move me ♥To : jerrylives@freemail.comFrom : Mel Fuller Subject : How about this one?I knowPrincess Leia, Return of the JediMel
A delightful frothy romance written entirely in emails to and from our heroine and her friends, love interest, coworkers, family, and acquaintances.
It is well-written and engaging.
The protagonists are likable, even endearing.
I didn't think anything could be lighter than Sophie Kinsella, but apparently Meg Cabot has managed to make her adult novels even lighter (if this is representative) and just as fun.
It is utterly predictable and I usually do like more depth and emotion, but I couldn't resist the charm.
I can't resist going on to another one immediately.
It was like a love/hate relationship with the email concept.Overall rating: Pretty original concept.
This is the first book I've ever read in all emails, so it was like going through my inbox.
It was a really good thing to read while answering phones at work.
Is it not possible to have a relationship in today's society without sleeping with everyone you date?I used to really enjoy the format of letters and emails in novels, but I've realised that this stops authors from showing their full literary potential, and makes the novel incredibly easy to read.
I prefer something which I have to concentrate on.Overall, it was a pretty easy, fluffy read, but not the sort of thing I'd be desperate to read again.
Reread and this time my rating is 4 stars, previous rating: 5 stars You just cannot go wrong with Meg Cabot (at least all the ones I've read so far)!I gobble up her chiclits like cookie-dough ice cream -> fun fact, I actually did this simultaneously in this case lol.Not much to review with this really, so yeah - if you need easy to read escapism, here you go.
8%, and I can't take the email format. I love dialogue, character interaction, the author interjecting snarky observations about what's happening. Email is... so cold. But this is just me, and so far the writing is funny and colourful.
Ok, I'm not gonna lie...I didn't even finish this book, but that's because it was so absolutely boring that I couldn't even force myself to continue. Which is sad because the last book I read by this author was really good. This entire book is made up of email conversations between people so I felt no connection to the characters. Plus it was just like random conversation and I couldn't really follow much of a storyline....I'm not usually one to not finish a book, but reading 50 pages of this was too grueling!!!
I’ve read this book a few times but it’s been years this time around. Some things didn’t age well but it was still such a fun read.
Diary format is fine, but letters and emails are just hard for me to get into.
I gave this one a chance, though, because last time I felt hesitant about a letter book and read it anyway (Feeling Sorry for Celia) I ended up liking it a lot.Unfortunately, this wasn't the case here.
It wasn't a TERRIBLE read, but it didn't grip my attention like Feeling Sorry for Celia did.
Even in letter or diary format that's fine, because maybe the character doesn't want to cross it out or rewrite it.
3. I didn't feel like I got to know any of the characters that well.
The plot Mel Fuller, the female lead writes the page 10 celebrity gossip column for the NY Journal. She is late to work again for around the 50th day in a row because she found her neighbor, Mrs. Friedlander unconscious with her dog barking like crazy. Feeling bad for her neighbor's pets she takes care of them while Mrs. Friedlander lays in a coma. Walking the dog every morning before work causes Mel to be late A LOT and finally with a help of her coworkers/friends she tracks down Mrs. Friedlan
She is late to work again for around the 50th day in a row because she found her neighbor, Mrs. Friedlander unconscious with her dog barking like crazy.
Walking the dog every morning before work causes Mel to be late A LOT and finally with a help of her coworkers/friends she tracks down Mrs. Friedlander's only next of kin, her nephew Max Friedlander.
Max Friedlander, a photographer is a self centered egotistical pig does not want to come back to NY City to take care of his old witch Aunt's animals.
So John agrees to pretend to be Max and to look after the 2 cats and the dog.
The wonderful Kat Conway gifted me this kindle book for a sick day read.
It was DELIGHTFULLY bad - all told through email correspondence, but in that magical time when people had email but not general web access.
Literally all the problems in this book could have been solved by an internet search or two.
It's Cabot's first "adult" book, but it reads like it's still written for teens, too.
There's really no reason it couldn't be middle grade/YA.
In short, this book cures illness with laughter, I love you Kat.Edited to add the detail that the lack of date/time stamps on the emails REALLY BOTHERED ME for some reason.
4.5 stars Boy Next Door is a novel told through email exchanges that really made my day.
The characters were amazingly shown with distinct traits, but jived perfectly together.
The humor was just too good, the attraction between John and Mel was wonderfully set, and the friendship over Mel and Nadine and her relationship with her workmates is entertaining.
Not to mention that I do enjoy this kind of novel telling.
I didn't like everything that happened but this is just what I need today - the Sophie Kinsella vibe  that I haven't felt for a while.
And just like that, my Monday is better now.
Dnf at 15%. It's in emails and all the characters are OTT. Not for me .
Ya veremos.CUESTIÓN QUE ESTE LIBRO ES SUPER TIERNO Y SUPER LINDO Y SÚPER RARO.Reseña express en puntitos hasta que pueda escribir algo bien:-Soy la fan #1 de las novelas escritas de otra forma que no sea la prosa común.
apresurado como por así decirlo (view spoiler)[ Mel estaba recontra enojada por lo que había pasado, escribe una COLUMNA ARRUINÁNDOLE LA VIDA, se pasa un montón de semanas a punto de arrancarle la cara, entonces ahí la cuñada de John le manda los mails de él hablando re baboso de lo mucho que la quiere (!!!!!!!!!!!!) y pufffff, ya se le pasó todo.
Honestly, this was my first Meg Cabot novel that I've read (though I am very much aware that she wrote the Princess Diaries series that I've been meaning to read when I was still in High School--and now that I'm almost in one year Sabbath since I have graduated from College, I am planning on reading it one of these days) so I don't have much idea how her writing style is--but oh boy, I liked how she cleverly and creatively presented this one: in e-mail form.
Actually all this book has such a feminist tone, I just love how I could see on this re-read how much Meg Cabot influenced on my way of thinking when I was growing up with her heroines without me ever noticing, just flawless.The romance is just as cute as I remembered.
At first I wasn't so sure I could read a whole book based on emails back and forth.
The funny thing is, its all tied up together so I was never lost or confused by any of the emails.
But in the end, when she found out John wasn't really Max she wouldn't even give him the time of day.
I saw her as the office tramp, lol!You could tell Max was a total jerk and what happened to him in the end was so what he deserved!!!
I almost forgot to mention another person in the story I totally loved besides John...his sister-in-law Stacy.
This is one of Meg Cabot's Boy Series books (Every Boy's Got One and Boy Meets Girl) which are written in 21st Century epistolary style, this particular book in all email messages.Melissa Fuller lives in New York at a small newspaper and lives next door to an older woman who has an "accident", forcing Mel to tend to her neighbor's three pets.
Mel suspects foul play while the police hunt down the neighbor's only living relative, a nephew named Max. Max is too busy vacationing with a supermodel to return to the Big City to tend to the situation, so he calls in a favor from his old friend, John.
