https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/365854.The_Gap_in_the_Curtain
Whether The Gap in the Curtain is a supernatural tale, or science fiction, or horror, is difficult to say.
A brilliant but possibly slightly unbalanced scientist discovers a means of lifting the curtain for a moment and gaining a glimpse of the future.
This discovery allows six people to see, for a brief instant of time, a page from a newspaper from one year in the future.
The book then follows the life of each of the six people up to that date a year in the future, and examines the way they deal with the knowledge they have gained.
It has John Buchan's usual wonderful style which makes for such a pleasant read, with his soothing descriptions of Britain's comforts and countryside and his skilful characterisation.
I especially enjoyed the chapters on the ramblings through southern Africa, the increasingly stifling Cortal family (and Reggie Daker's wonderful escape!), and the very last, which vaporises into such Hope.Other chapters were less enjoyable due to the political setting.
I very much appreciated the starting point he assumed; as noted in the Introduction, this book is "a meditation on free will and predestination , with "time" being substituted for "God", written by an author deeply imbued with Calvinist thinking."The Introduction was appreciated (I don't think I would have read the book otherwise), and the book likely one to ponder.
John Buchan was an author, a lawyer, an historian, and a politician (including being Governor General of Canada in the last years of his life).
His work sometimes drifted into the borders of fantasy, and The Gap in the Curtain follows a simple premise to an interesting conclusion.
Led by an Einsteinian professor, five characters are able to see a copy of The London Times one year in the future.
Through the eyes of the narrator, we follow the resultant reactions of each of the five.
Followers of Downton Abbey may find this book especially interesting.
A fascinating tale about five men who get a glimpse of The Times newspaper a year in the future, and how what they read there affects their lives. As usual Buchan's prose is spare yet evocative, and the final chapter moved me immensely.
The pivotal question of the book is, to me, that of determinism – can fate be changed or “prevented”.
Certainly the ending of the book, which meets the question head on, is the best Buchan ending I have ever read (and I have read quite a few...) Three quotes:{Almost Jane Austin style dinner parties}There is a species of bêtise, which I believe at Cambridge is named after some don, and which consists in missing completely the point of a metaphor or a joke, in setting the heavy heel of literalness on some trivial flower of fancy.
Wonderful concept and a really interesting look at what happens when you try to focus on the future instead of on the present but large sections were very heavy and slow going.
A well written and entertaining tale about the anguish of knowing your future in advance.
No Idea what that was about.
A fascinating piece of writing on a paranormal subject. It was basically looking at the mind over matter issue, or matter over mind. Quite good.
Enjoyable up to the descent into historical British politics. Not for me
The book is mainly narrative and the first chapter was a bit tedious but the book grew on me as I read more. It was only when I finished the book that I read the introduction and found out that Buchan was inspired to write it by the debate between Fate deciding a person's life (or what God wills) versus Free Will where the individual can do things to improve their lot in life.It's educational, humorous and sad, and laced with Buchan's comments on political and social life.One for the shelf.
