https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/196262.Mindswap
I see that some reviewers here object to Sheckley's style and dialogue, but to me it seemed clear that he was mostly parodying SF and other genre fiction - I found it very amusing.In this book, you travel the Galaxy by swapping minds with alien beings on other planets.
So the hero of the book may start a chapter with his mind suddenly occupying the body of a mole-like creature burrowing in pitch darkness miles under the surface of an alien planet; after a few pages, the panzaism has set in, and he just feels that he's a commuter on his way to work.As artists are always reminding us, the world is far more bizarre, dramatic and interesting than we think.
This hardcover copy is signed by Robert Sheckley.

Their horizontal distance speaks to us of our transcendence; their vertical declivity reminds us unalterably of the imminence of failure, the sureness of death.
We build, construct, fabricate; but death is the supreme architect, who shapes heights only that there may be depths.”Things are always go from bad to worse so his valiant heroes are happy to just exist…“Analogy assures us that this is like that; it forms a bridge between the accepted known and the unacceptable unknown.
It attaches the one to the other, imbuing the intolerable unknown with a desirable familiarity.”Mindswap is simply a reliable visionary bridge to the great unknown…
an interesting, and outrageously imaginative book, that i must admit i didn't find funny. i know that i'm supposed to find it funny, and a great many other people will no doubt double over with laughter, but i just don't laugh at this kind of book. as others have noted, it is in the same vein hitchhikers guide to the galaxy, and sort of reminded me of the one terry pratchett book i read. if you are mad for these authors, mindswap would more than suit your tastes, and should definitely be sought out.
I've read this book three or four times. It still holds up as funny and acerbic. I keep seeing phrases and sections that'd I'd plagiarize if I thought I could get away with it.
Pa Pustinjak koji govori u stihovima, pa Lutalica ali definitivno meni omiljeno Mjesto za cekanje ( na zalost pre kratko traje, kao i njegov odnos sa Keti).
Sheckleya sam prvi put citao davno u kombinaciji sa Zelaznyem, i sta god sam od njega uzeo citat imalo je dosta humora, pa mi je bio onako ne bas omiljeni, sve dok nisam procitao njegovu kratku pricu Trgovina Svjetovima, koja me bas dojmila.
Ova knjiga ima i doze humora, i poprilicnu dozu filozofije i stvarno mi se svidjela."Nista u zivotu nije trajno, osim mojih iluzija"
Marvin Flynn, un terrícola que quiere escapar de su tediosa vida, responde a un anuncio en el periódico y transfiere su mente al cuerpo de un marciano.
Así empieza la epopeya de Marvin Flynn, entre absurda y trascendente, a lo largo y ancho del universo.Trueque mental es un libro de los de ceja en estado de alerta, media sonrisa y consultar bibliografía al final, porque quieres otro libro que te lo haga pasar tan bien.
There's a quote from Douglas Adams on the front that reads, "Robert Sheckley is one of the great funny writers".
I've read all of Douglas Adams' books, and this is like a teenage fan-fic of Hitchhiker's.
The first few chapters were great, but from chapter 16 onwards - about halfway through the book - it was like being stuck in the Improbability Drive; before the last chapter, the Drive turned up to Infinity, and the book lost any claims it had to making sense.
Nor did it attempt to explain its basic premise - that minds can be swapped between bodies - with even the basest pseudo-science.
It didn't even explain how the bodies were obtained for the protagonist's mind to constantly swap between.
Douglas Adams once told me that Sheckley was his favorite science fiction humorist. Mine, too. Hilarious tale of interstellar comedic mishaps.
Before Arthur Dent had to worry about the destruction of the Earth, Marvin Flynn found himself missing his body.Marvin, bored with his life on Earth, decides to travel and see the Universe through mind transfer. Things don't go well. But they go strange.Including a very fun Dumas parody. I expected Daffy Duck to arrive as the Scarlet Pumpernickel.(Listening to Audible.com version, and the narrator is very good as well. He has many accents to keep up with.)
I really hope Sheckley stays in print for decades to come. Douglas Adams gets all the credit for sci-fi satire, but Sheckley did it before and did it better. This book might be very loosely compared to a grail-quest - or maybe Kerouac's On The Road - but with brain transplants. Hilarious and wonderful.
Le doy un 3,5/5. Tengo que reconocer que la deformación metafórica ha estado a punto de poder conmigo. Hay un momento que te quedas con cara de tonto y cuando terminas el libro te das cuenta de como el autor ha jugado contigo. Pronto reseña en el blog con sus pros y sus contras.
One of the funniest books I've ever read.
Books like these are the reason I read.Mindswap evoked a familiar, Lem or Douglas Adams feel, but this is one rare weird sci fi gem with a combination of meta realism and humour so unique of its own.Marvin Flynn, a casual vacationer from hinterlands of Earth with innate small-town conservatism goes all wanderlust and decides to see the vastness of cosmos at minimal disposal of funds.
Mindswap is basically Bester's Jaunting without the body or a docile version of Matrix's Agent Smith bodyswap or maybe little bloody Third Bithday possession.But Marvin had to let go of the Martian body and swap along a series of near sorry situations all long the universe in bodies of various intelligent species, thanks to an Intergalactic body snatching criminal called Kraggosh.
Things go wrong almost immediately.Put me on the side of people who really enjoyed the humour in this book.
It benefits from being written before 'Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy' and I would argue it is probably a more timeless book than Adams' work - which seems much more locked in the 80s than Sheckley's 60s work.Under the humour is the serious intent to investigate how we know anything.
A comedy of a hapless man careening through the universe - or to put it another way a totally realistic novel about the human condition.You could argue that instead of a failed novelist Sheckley suffers (in some reader's eyes) from being too ambitious, almost experimental.
-Humor surrealista de ritmo endiablado.-Género. Ciencia ficción.Lo que nos cuenta. Marvin Flinn desea viajar fuera de la Tierra pero sus ingresos no lo permiten, por lo que decide aceptar una oferta de trueque mental con un marciano que desea hacer turismo en nuestro planeta. Tras firmar los correspondientes documentos, la transferencia se lleva a cabo y Marvin se encuentra en Marte con un nuevo cuerpo alienígena, pero las cosas no saldrán como estaban previstas.¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers? Visite:http://librosdeolethros.blogspot.com/...
This book was unlike anything I've ever read. There is no genre or cliché that is safe from being stretched beyond anything it ever should have become. You should be able to look up "absurdism" and see "Read Mindswap by Robert Sheckley." The only way this could be a film is if you brought Gene Wilder, Mark Strong, Humphrey Bogart, and Mel Brooks to the 1970's and have Paul Bartel direct. Spider Robinson said that Mindswap would turn your mind into chunky peanut butter."Hi, my name is Peter Pan. Do you know of a decent plastic jar for rent?"
Very bizarre book. Sheckley is hilarious. Rent your body out while your mind is on vacation. Great stuff.
A wonderfully eccentric absurdist sci-fi novel by a master of the genre who died in obscurity in his own country. My favorite sentence is "Day succeeded night, which succeeded in making a perfect fool of itself." It reminds me of "But, luckily, he kept his wits and his purple crayon" from Crockett Johnson's Harold and the Purple Crayon, which my daughter read at age 5.
I used to like this type of sci-fi, but my tastes have changed. I didn't appreciate the homophobia in chapter 13. I feel like if the author couldn't solve a plot problem, he just made things up, instead of trying to make it believable. I know sheckley meant it to be humorous; I found it unfunny.
Since it is very hard to find Sheckley's work, this was a shock when I happened to find it at the local Half Price Books. Loved this read! Great book!
Lamentablemente, a mitad del libro al autor se le va la pinza totalmente y empieza una sucesión sin fin de personajes de nombres rimbombantes salidos de la nada, cuyo origen o presencia en el relato no tiene sentido.
Las últimas páginas del libro volvieron a tener el interés de las primeras, pero tras la parte central de la historia, que no tiene ni pies ni cabeza, ya no podía hacerse nada por salvarla.
Это нечто мозговыносительное!
"Обмен разумов".Простой американский парень Марвин Флинн из простого американского будущего тяготится своей ничем не примечательной жизнью и жаждет приключений.
На мой вкус это "Алиса в Стране Чудес" для взрослых.
И хотя, на мой взгляд, эту книгу к научной фантастике можно отнести с огромным трудом (хотя, безусловно, сюжет фантастический), я теперь понимаю почему Шекли относят к элите фантастов и почему расцвет научной фантастики связан в том числе и с его именем.
Это глубокая многоплановая вещь.
Со множеством подтекстов, скрывающая за тоннами абсурда серьёзные размышления о человеке.
Он есть, но это скорее острая сатира.
Остро, злободневно, но смех сквозь глубокие размышления...
В Шекли влюбилась.
Inside the front-cover were written: Anne G...
Anne G was likely my age, or perhaps a pal of my older brother.
My Dad suggested I might have bought the book in a church bazaar.
Anne had added the same details on the upper left of the first loose-leaf.
a reservation at the time that prevented me from really liking the book.I read the book over two days and found it much funnier than I had remembered but also clever.
What were my reservations the first time?
I understand now why Anne had written her name twice: this is a cool book to own.

Pillad una toalla y vuestra guía de autoestopista galáctico, que nos vamos por esos universos de Dios a liarla parda!
De la mano, o la mente, de Marvin Flynn, un anodino habitante de la Tierra, nos vamos a meter de cabeza en una disparatada historia sobre intercambio de cuerpos y la levedad del ser, que tiene miga el asunto.
Esta es una de esas novelas que te gustan o no, sin término medio.

Need your intelligence insulted, again?
Here comes Sheckley!
A great example of how Sci-Fi ages like goat cheese.
Could this possibly be worse than "Status Civilization?" No, it's a hair better because it has more aliens and something that smells vaguely of plot.
Reads like Young Adult, and I mean that in a condescending and smarmy way, but it was never intended to be such.
(view spoiler)[ He should have written: Wouldn't it be cool to be an alien?
What if you could have sex as an alien?
Or maybe swap like one of those swinger mags?
(hide spoiler)]

