https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29430012-a-gentleman-in-moscow
Hotel Metropol, MoscowThis is just a snippet from the appearance of Count Alexander Ilyich Rostov before the Emergency Committee of the People’s Commissariat for Internal Affairs on 21 June 1922.
Here is an example of the Count telling us to reevaluate how we see the people we meet:”After all, what can a first impression tell us about someone we’ve just met for a minute in the lobby of the hotel?
So spend a few hours with Count Alexander Ilyich Rostov and see how to live a good life despite being made a caged bird.
Towles bestows on us a language to be treasured; a story to be remembered.This was a remarkably enchanting narrative with a charming character.
This is a man who truly separated himself from others in appreciating the simple things in life.
A man who was duly present, authentic and honourable.This is a story that should be read with a good bottle of brandy or simply with the purist adoration for a storyteller who can transcend time and magically entrance us.
Bravo, Towles.
Bravo.
Amor Towles'sleading man...."Count Rostov" ....[Alexander Ilyich Rostov]....or "Sasha", to a select few old friends, is THE MOST EXCEPTIONAL male character to come along in recent literature.
In the first few weeks of living in the Metropol Hotel-- Alexander holds himself high - has no interest in bitterness ---GOD I LOVED THIS MAN---and quietly stayed in his room, reading, and reflecting.
Over the years - three decades at Hotel Metropol--Alexander makes many friends and acquaintances.
Yet.....Out of all the people who come and go - it's Nina who has Alexander's heart the most.A time comes when she does leave the hotel - but then she comes back years later for a brief visit - a visit that will alter Alexanders life.
In the year 1922, Count Alexander Ilyich Rostov has been sentenced to House arrest at the famed Moscow Hotel Metropol.
At first, he is a once proud man who has had all of his material possessions taken away from him and has to make do with life in a room, until the day that the Count encounters nine-year-old Nina, altering the course of his life.
Towles creates a compelling cast of characters to complement the Count, none more vital to sustaining his existence than Sofia, Nina's daughter who she leaves in his care.
'A Gentleman in Moscow' tells the story of Count Alexander Rostov, who is sentenced to live out the rest of his life on "house arrest" in the Metropol hotel, following his "conviction" by a Bolshevik tribunal.
From one of the hotel's most prestigious guests, to a member of the wait staff, Count Rostov manages his fall from grace with poise and dignity.This book provided beautiful imagery and a thought-provoking dialogue on the rise of communism in Russia over a period of about 30 or so years, beginning in 1922.
Through his eyes we will experience the many changes in Russia, from Stalin to Khrushchev, as the hotel is the home for many meetings and dinners of the top ranking members of the politburo.
Words, and insights that had me putting the book down just to think about what I read.
I wish they could step out of the book so I could meet them in person.
As much as I loved his first book, I appreciated this one more.
Read it for yourself, I am sure there is something in it form you to appreciate.ARC from Netgalley.
However, I thought better and the review stays because i want it to be a warning that this social platform, which should be a place to share our opinion of books with each other in a friendly manner sometimes becomes a stress factor.
During last year I've thought about this book a lot and a negative review I read today (by Jonathan) made me decide to come clean.
My true opinion about this book is that it is neither charming or fun.
I also have to admit that O only read 60% of it.***Original review: I can define this book with one word, namely charming.
Read others reviews of this book for I cannot do it justice, but I will say I just loved it, loved the Count and his interactions with everyone, especially Nina, and later Sophia. So many times this gentleman had me laugh out loud. I would have loved to have met him!
I wanted to read this because of the wonderful story that Towles gave us in Rules of Civility, that wonderful sense of time and place - New York in the 1930's.
It is literally a window view because the Count has been placed under house arrest and is destined to spend his years in a luxury hotel, the Metropol.
There were a few times when I thought it was a little lengthy but then, then the love, the friendships and a little girl named Sofia fill the story with so much heart and humanity, I can hardly give this book any less than five stars.
Just across the square from the Kremlin, is the Metropol Hotel, where Count Alexander Ilyich Rostov has a suite of rooms, but in 1922 he is sentenced to house arrest in that very hotel, and banished to a small attic room.
He left me with that feeling you get savouring a delicious hot chocolate on a cold winter's night - warm, comforted, happy!The storyline could have become monotonous, set as it was in this one hotel, but it wasn't - it was a joy to see how Alexander adapted to his situation, but if I have one criticism it was that I found some of the narrative overly long.
This really was a special book, one which at times felt almost magical.Count Alexander Rostov was always a man who enjoyed the finer things in life.
, which also was a fantastic book (see my review), Amor Towles both reveres and satirizes the world in which this book takes place, but the love he has for his characters is a beacon above it all.While at times the book got a little too detailed with the workings of Russian government, poetry, and Bolshevik history, it always quickly got itself back on track and brought me back into the book's heart.
Artisan wines develop over a long period of time gaining flavor, you cannot rush them.
But I would ask which notes in the music score should be cut or how much less time should that Cabernet have spent in the barrel?
In wine tasting it’s all about the finish and this did not disappoint.
Certainly more of the Veuve Clicquot champagne I appreciated while reading this (I swear it did not cause me to see stars).
Then perhaps as time goes by I’ll finish with a jammy red chosen from the usual suspects.
"A gentleman can live through anything." —Oscar WildeReawakening my childhood memories of The Count of Monte Cristo, author Amor Towles pleasingly delivers a sprawling, chucklesome novel of aristocratic derring-do.The Bolsheviks have seized power in Mother Russia and Count Alexander Ilyich Rostov is placed under house arrest at Moscow's Hotel Metropol. A nobleman of impeccable manners, Rostov is billeted in an austere attic room with barely enough space to swing a Cossack, but nevertheless neve
—Oscar WildeReawakening my childhood memories of The Count of Monte Cristo, author Amor Towles pleasingly delivers a sprawling, chucklesome novel of aristocratic derring-do.The Bolsheviks have seized power in Mother Russia and Count Alexander Ilyich Rostov is placed under house arrest at Moscow's Hotel Metropol.
And I defy anyone, or anything (man, woman, cat or dog), not to fall in love with Count Alexander Ilych Rostov!
Yes, a bottle of wine was the ultimate distillation of time and place, a poetic expression of individuality itself." A cherished copy of Anna Karenina has been a constant companion of our distinguished Count, and I am sure many will appreciate the value of that sacred tome as well.
Steeped in the atmosphere of the time and place, A Gentleman in Moscow is a book not to be missed.
I prefer books that are gritty, depressing even sad, as long as they are realistic.There are lots of historical tidbits and curios to pique the reader's interest.
The reader is confined to the hotel along with the central protagonist, Count Alexander Rostov.
We and he are confined to the hotel and what we learn we are told.
A central question of the novel is what Count Rostov makes of his life, a life confined to one hotel!
Little is said simply; that is not the style of the book.
Words such as wonderful and beautiful come to mind.
The count, who has never worked a day in his life, had been living in luxury at the hotel when he was sentenced to house arrest.
He continues to maintain his schedule and even entertains quests in his attic room.This book spans decades and shows how one man can build a life for himself no matter where he lives.
The Count was able to build close and meaningful relationships with the staff and others living at the Hotel.
I really didn't see this book coming.
Despite being fundamentally against privilege and elitism, they obviously appreciate the majesty of the hotel’s ballrooms and refined meal service for their business sessions: The soldiers of the common man may toss the banners of the old regime on the victory pyre, but soon enough trumpets will blare and pomp will take its place at the side of the throne, having once again secured its dominion over history and kings.His stewardship of Nina’s development is rewarded years later when she is forced to leave her daughter Sasha as a toddler in his care, and unforeseen circumstances leads him to assume the role of raising her as a father.
A charming, sophisticated and deeply moving book - it took me a really long time to read because it required my utmost concentration.
I loved the book and oh, how I loved Count Rostov!
He is the very definition of the word "gentleman."I encourage you to set aside the time to read this elegant novel thoroughly and let it sink into your heart and bones.
My only hesitation on giving this a 5 is that I think it was much too long, but on the other hand, it was a lovely world to linger in.A 4.5 for me.
“Fate would not have the reputation it has if it simply did what it seemed it would do.”And then Nina arrives, a nine year-old breath of fresh air, bringing challenges and delight into the life of a man who, at the age of forty-six, has become a creature of habit, a man who was previously unencumbered now custodian to this lovely child, who is, after all, still a child.
The Count contributes music, lovely music, literature, and wisdom.
I didn't know how to review this book. I think the style of the writing, with its miniature microcosm approach was 90% the reason why I gave A Gentleman in Moscow 5 stars. If you want a glimpse proper into the ramifications of the Great War then I urge you to read the non-fiction books, some of which are excellent. The bolshevik revolution is just a backdrop in this story. The ease, education, class, and silence of the main character was a delight to read. I think it's not fine literature. I would disagree with whomever said the contrary.
How To Be CharmingAn old saw, from some unknown source buried in my sub-conscious, has it that ‘Charm is that personal characteristic which generates the response ‘Yes’ before a request is even made.’ Towles’s Count Rostov is the epitome of a man with this kind of charm.
Rostov even charms the KGB into letting him live, in reduced but habitable circumstances, within the confines of the best hotel in Moscow.
But when confronted with breaches in expected behaviour, charm does not censure, it considers the reasons and possible benefits of not just an exception to the rule but of the rejecting the rule entirely in order to promote a superior social harmony.
First I have to to admit I had not intended to read this book as I had decided some time ago after reading a Goodread friends 5 star review and realising all the elements of the story that she loved were going to be the reasons I might not enjoy it as much.
Russian history from this period is far from charming and while the book does provide snippets of historical detail it just didn't satisfy me.So many of my Goodread friends have loved this book and I have read and enjoyed many of their reviews and I do think this would make a great discussion book as bookclub read.
I guess charm is like humor. The same material doesn't work for everyone. There are parts of this book that I enjoyed, but I wasn't charmed. It reminded most of a children's story about playing in an old house on a rainy day when you can't go outside. Complete with a woman to scold for the damage that you did to your clothes while playing. His friends seemed as much imagined as real.I was grateful that he grew up in the course the book. But, it's still much a fairytale about an aristocrat in the Soviet era.
I loved everything about this book – the characters, their various and separate yet closely woven storylines, and how it all unfolds.There was not one moment while reading this book where I was not completely uplifted into the time and place of the story.
I felt tense every time “the Bishop” came onto the scene and I also felt the sense of camaraderie that Alexander shared with his friends.How I admired that Count Alexander made the choices that he did – and that the people around him each played their part in those choices – just by being themselves.This is a novel that spans many decades, and does it so smoothly.
It was perfect.Count Alexander Rostov is one of those characters who lives on long after you have finished the book.
Yet Rostov not only does not give up, he actually makes a wonderful life for himself and enjoys every day.
I loved him for his kindness, his optimism, his practicality and eventually for his incredible smartness and cunning in making his break for freedom.At the end (which was magical) I still wanted more.
What happened next?
What happened to Sophia?
I want more please Mr. Towles!I listened to this book on audio which was delightful.
I loved this lovely and slightly whimsical historic fiction novel, set in Moscow in the early to mid 1900s.In 1913 a Russian aristocrat, Count Alexander Ilyich Rostov, publishes a poem called "Where Is It Now?," a call for political change.
A Gentleman in Moscow explores friendship, love, enmity and life in general, with compassion, insight and a frequently droll sense of humor."What is it exactly that you do as an officer of the Party?” “Let’s just say that I am charged with keeping track of certain men of interest.” “Ah. Well, I imagine that becomes rather easy to achieve when you place them under house arrest.” “Actually,” corrected Glebnikov, “it is easier to achieve when you place them in the ground.
And although the first 50 pages or so were a bit sluggish, once I got into the novel I was able to read whole chunks of it at a time.
However, I prefer historical fiction where the time period informs the story but does not go out of it's way to educate.
I like to read historical fiction and learn things here or there through osmosis but not be instructed on what was happening at the time in such a direct way.
It's totally a personal preference thing, which is why I don't think it's a negative aspect of the book.
What I really enjoyed was the interactions that Count Rostov had with the people he encountered and lived with as well as his surroundings at the Metropol Hotel.
You need peace and quiet to really appreciate this book.A GENTLEMAN IN MOSCOW by AMOR TOWLES is a charming and memorable story that was filled with so much personal wisdom from a Gentleman that was under house arrest in a luxury hotel named the Metropol Hotel that was ran with a standard of excellence.
Count Alexander Rostov was cultured, kind-hearted, canny, charming, dignified, respectful, and an old-fashioned gentleman who was also a great conversationalist.
Towles’ writing style is so comfortable, his command of the subject so complete, his humor so subtle and charming, that I could have read on and on.In 1922, Count Alexander Rostov, an aristocrat who is saved from being shot by having written a significant poem in favor of the people, is sentenced to house arrest at the Metropol Hotel.
His life might appear to be over, but life is strange, particularly in Russian novels and neither Rostov nor the reader could imagine the life that is in store for our hero.The novel is a mixture of War and Peace, Dr. Zhivago and John le Carre.
As virtually everyone else has said this is a novel of immense charm.
What if, for example, Sophie had been taken from the Count and put into an orphanage?
The count is never really tested in this novel.
That’s how he’s able to sustain his impeccable manners, his relentless charm.
It creates the kind of world you would like your young children to believe in.
It’s a beautifully hermetically sealed novel.
It’s also a feel-good novel and yes I loved it but will I still remember it a year from now?
