https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1120372.The_Complete_Tolkien_Companion
I'm pretty fond of this book.
It's an encyclopedia of words, places, families, and histories from the writings of JRR Tolkien.
I'm interested in both useless knowledge and world-building, so this was right up my ally.
Plus, of course, I really enjoyed reading the Lord of the Rings books when I was a little girl.With this book I traced family lines and saw that Arwyn and Aragorn were direct cousins (ew).
I read "lost" poems.
everyone has to draw a line somewhere.In short, this little tome put me, for a little while, back into a comfortable old book-world from my childhood.
This is the ultimate one that I recommend.
David Day has a good one as well but it's not as all encompassing as this faithful companion.
This book is seriously the forgotten member of the Fellowship.
😂📖This book is an alphabetic encyclopedia of every person, place, event, and lore-tidbit Tolkien mentions in any work based in Middle-earth and his other stuff.
An absolute must for forgetful Tolkien fanatics.
Other series that deserve guidebooks?
I'd love ones for Harry Potter, Witcher, and Nevernight!
Those series have fascinating backstories, lots of characters and locations that I'd benefit from looking up in a book.
A must have book for those who enjoy reading and collecting the works of Tolkien.It is a guide to Tolkien's Middle Earth legends, history, languages, and peoples.The Companion contains every known fact, name, date, and etymological allusion from Middle Earth.... a must have.
A "must" for any Tolkien fan, this reference book covers nearly all of the people, places, creatures, etc., found in Tolkien's works. I have found it especially helpful as I plow through The Silmarillion...
Exceptionally helpful. I would recommend this book to any Tolkien fan. You could always use wikipedia, but isn't a physical reference just so much more preferable?
Encyclopedic knowledge about all things Arda. More as a reference than something to read cover-to-cover.
Basically a massive appendix to Tolkien's fictional universe. If you're a huge Tolkien fan you'll love this, if not skip this one.
Excellent Tolkien companion! Delightful. :)
Dear LOTR fans, you must have this book!
This book is the pinnacle of Tolkien information.
It contains so much Lore and background information it's almost a must for every reader of Tolkien's Middle-Earth adventures.
As a lover of Lore this book quenches and reignites my lust for knowledge again and again.This is a fairly advanced version of the Companion that goes from the fact that you at least read the books and there aren't many alternatives to this book but for smaller children or people who get frustrated by the many references that will have you leaf though and through this book over and over again -> Tolkien: A Dictionary by David Day is a little more user friendly but also a little less informative.
Not going to count this toward my reading goal, since it is not a book that I read cover to cover. It is in dictionary style and to be used as a reference while reading Tolkien's works . It is a guide to all the lands, legends, languages, people, etc...in Tolkien's world. It is absolutely fabulous, and thorough and a must for any Tolkien Nerd :)
exhaustive
While it's certainly very helpful to refresh your memory, sometimes the tone sounds less than objective (e.g. the entry of Maeglin). There are also some misplaced descriptions here and there (Nienna does not dwell in the Gardens of Lorien, for one -- the description belongs to Este), but over-all, it is a good enough guide to Tolkien's universe.
One is probably not intended to read this encyclopedic work cover to cover, but I did. I learned a lot about the details and history of Middle Earth before the War of the Ring through the constant repetition of things. In any case, this would be an excellent reference for anyone studying the other books.
Love this book! One of the most valuable books on my bookshelf, it has ended many an argument! I can't express how valuable this book was to me the first time I read the series, I found myself flipping through just enjoying reading all the character background stories. So thankful that this book was written!
A nice adjunct to reading Tolkien's books. If you have questions, the answers have been prepared and are easy to find...what happened to Sam after LOTR, the names of his children and when he went west after Frodo...etc. For those with packrat minds.
Absolutely invaluable for a dedicated Tolkienite (yes, I just made that word up). A complete wealth of information that allows a reader to keep track of the endless expanses of Tolkien's world. A must-have for fans of Tolkien's work!
A must-have reference to the many flora and fauna of middle earth.
There is no Tolkien resource quite like it. It's the best one I've ever found.
I absolutely love this book.
...
