https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10822858-the-keeper-of-lost-causes
(B+) 78% | GoodNotes: Characters gush ad nauseam about the victim's beauty, I suppose, to make her victimization seem all the more tragic.
Morck is ‘promoted’ to be in charge of the new Department Q and sent down to a basement office.At first, Morck is happy to be left alone in the basement where he can smoke all he wants and play computer solitaire all day, but when he learns that the department is using the money allotted for Department Q to beef up the homicide division, he demands a piece of the action including a department car, getting the basement fixed up and his own assistant to make the coffee and do the shit work.
The Morck character and the set-up of him being exiled to Department Q was an interesting idea, and I really liked this grumpy guilt-ridden detective with a messy personal life.
When the government insists the Copenhagen police department form a cold case department the Chief of Detectives jumps at the chance to assign Carl to that department which also happens to be in the basement...way...way...away from the rest of the detectives.
Adler-Olsen didn’t really explore that in depth, but it does make me wonder if part of their attraction for Carl is their unattainability or maybe he is attracted to older women more likely to be married.
The book switches between Merete before 2007 and Carl investigating her cold case in 2007.
Book one in a series set in Denmark featuring Detective Inspector Carl Morck, a man who believes he has exhausted his interest in his job and just wants to sit out the remaining years to his retirement.
A series of events puts him in charge of a newly established cold case department, he gets an extremely interesting assistant, he finds a case which does interest him and things go from there.I enjoyed it enormously!
I so wanted to take a quick peek at the final pages to settle my nerves but I restrained myself and just read faster!So - a good story, lots of interesting police work, great characters, humour, suspense - what more could I ask for?
He is about as wounded and psychologically messed up as a crime fiction protagonist can be, and that seems to be a prerequisite for such characters in the dark world of Nordic Noir.Add to this that Morck is a particularly abrasive and unlikeable person to begin with and that helps to explain Morck’s surprise when he is promoted to head up a new crime unit, devoted to solving cold cases.
Half the time, especially in the dreary sub-plot about his home life, I wanted to go Vito Corleone on his whiney ass, slap him, and tell him to ACT LIKE A MAN!Adler-Olsen used a narrative structure where he switched perspectives between Morck and the victim in a crime case and following the victim was more appealing than Morck’s detective work.

Hey look! Another gruff male detective with a "crazy" ex. I wonder if he's experienced some prior trauma in the line of duty. Oh, he has. I wonder if he's an outcast in his department? Oh, he is. I wonder if he flouts protocol and pushes boundaries? Oh, he does. I wonder if all the female characters are repeatedly defined by their physical appearance or presumed sexuality. Oh, they are. Fantastic! Now I've got something I can recommend to readers who are interested in cliches, sexism and misogyny.
Perfect✨’
I don’t think I’ve run into a better detective duo than Carl, a policeman of many years experience, and his sidekick Assad, who he supposedly hired to clean the office.
Assad says he’s an emigrant from Syria where he used to be a taxi driver but he seems to have skills that not many cabbies could claim.
He’s able to get documents examined and deciphered with the help of friends with special skills but no names.
The funniest parts are when Carl underestimates Assad though it’s understandable because of Assad’s mad skills at coming across as a hapless charmer with a wide toothed grin.
I don't know how much of this is attributable to the translation, but it needs work.
A lot of it.Second, the protagonist is an asshole.
And not a likeable asshole.
He's a sad-sack asshole (what are you even still doing married to your wife and paying for her shit?
The man is completely unrelateable and he doesn't even have the edge of brilliance to push him over into grudging respect territory.
Don't try to make this some sort of edge-of-your-seat type thing if you are going to spell out the mystery like this is some sort of elementary school mystery book.
After dealing with a vicious attack on his team that left one team member dead and the other paralyzed, Carl is returning to the homicide department.
Conveniently timed is a political ploy to solve more cold cases within the Danish police department.
Soon Carl is given Assad, a political refugee allegedly from Syria.
Carl is at first resistant to any type of help,but soon he and Assad find their first intriguing case.
I loved grumpy Carl with his chaotic life and especially enjoyed the relationship between Assad and Carl.Pulse pounding action and a very intriguing case make for some exciting reading.
And it was well worth it.Carl Mørck is the head of this new department, a bit of a grudging head, since it comes on the heels of a disastrous last homicide case in which one of his close fellow officers was killed, another severely wounded and he luckily survived less severe wounds.
Well sort of alone in his basement office except for this strange fellow Assad, who is quite literally a jack of all trades.The plot here follows two threads, one following the cold case from its inception, and the second following the new investigation as well as Carl's life and attempts to work out all that has happened to him.
This longish Nordic thriller/mystery delivers a very satisfying read, for the most part.
I sometimes wondered if the translation to English added more words.
The lead character is the world-weary but brilliant detective Carl Morck who gets relegated to a basement office (Department Q) where he's given one offbeat assistant, Assad.
The funny and personable interactions between Carl and Assad are the most interesting parts of the cop narrative.
The main plot of the top Danish government official's kidnapping which they're trying to solve is serviceable enough.
I haven't read further into the series, but I suspect Carl and Assad will collude again to crack other major cases.
When the government decides to fund a nationwide cold-case investigation unit that will be based out of Copenhagen, Marcus decides to "promote" Carl to a new position as the head of Department Q - while managing to keep most of government appropriated funds for his homicide dept.Carl finds himself in a basement office with a stack of files he doesn't intend to touch.
I managed to hold myself back and am happy that I did so because it made the reading that much better - whatever the outcome.Reading as Carl re-emerges as the very competent police detective he'd once been and his interactions with the very interesting Assad (which were often funny) was a delight.
Highbrow literature, even when excellent, often bores me with its cold glitter.”So, now you know, gentle reader, why I assigned this novel 4 stars despite the too slow start and plot holes!The Danish author writes originally in Danish, and I am an English-speaking reader, thus this is a translated book for me.
It takes a long time for the two plots to intersect, but when it does, the book becomes impossible to set down (view spoiler)[ because even though I guessed who was behind the kidnapping by the middle of the story, it has a VERY thrilling conclusion!
Except for the novels of Norwegian Karin Fossum, I hadn’t read any of the Scandinavian crime fiction that’s all the rage.
For that reason, I really can’t compare Jussi Adler-Olsen’s The Keeper of Lost Causes to other Scandinavian crime novels.
Are their protagonists as curmudgeonly as Adler-Olsen’s Carl Mørck, a police deputy superintendent whose lost whatever little joy he had in life when one partner was killed and the other paralyzed during an ambush.
I enjoyed The Keeper of Lost Causes much more than I thought I would, and I got to really appreciate both curmudgeon Carl and the under-estimated Assad.
My agenda political wise is firstly to criticize regardless of what is to criticize, and no matter what the basis of view is, and secondly to appeal to the politicians in power that they should understand that they are our servants and not our masters, and that they first and foremost on their fields of activity should learn to acknowledge mistakes and to evaluate their own actions."Through his protagonist Carl MØrck, a lone detective absconded to the basement of police headquarters, heading a cold case department of one, and for all the world a detective ostracized for his unsociable and arrogant manner we bump head-on into the political machinations of Denmark's finest if not the corruption of a government beyond.
What easier that promoting Morck and make him head of this department and pocket the money.
The department ends up being somewhere in the basement and it suits Morck who has no real interest in really working.
Only she is not permitted to do so until she gets killed.Carl Morck & Assad will have to do their best to find the politician who they do not even know is alive but the more they look into her disappearance the less really makes sense.
The birth of an interesting team.The book does not solve all the questions about Morck and his shooting and neither does it give the answers about Assad.
pitko, zanimljivo i zabavno.Jussi odlično piše, glavni inspektor Carl ima svoj obvezni teret prošlosti što ga čini malo puknutim no tu je i galerija likova koji opuštaju napetost počevši od vrlo neobičnog (i tajnovitog) asistena, Sirijske izbjeglice Assada (naravno, Hafez el-Assad kako bi bilo zanimljivije) to Carlovih podstanara i šašave žene koja ne bi živjela s njim no ne želi ni rastavu.Zaplet (i rasplet) prvog romana serijala je OK, ništa komplicirano no Jussi drži konce od početka i vrlo dinamično bez ikakvih skretanja vodi radnju tako da se knjiga čita vrlo brzo.Jaka trojka - skoro pa četvorka i preporuka žanroljupcima.
Re-visit autumn 2018: Description: Carl Morck, a troubled detective, is assigned to the newly created 'Department Q', a basement-bound job filing cold cases. He is allocated an assistant, Assad, and between them they review the case files to determine which ones can be closed. Always one to go against orders, Morck throws them headlong into the mystery of a politician's disappearance during a ferry crossing five years earlier.Based on the first of Jussi Adler-Olsen's 'Department Q' series of novels.In Danish with English subtitles(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books
 (hide spoiler)]
This was my April Book Pal's choice and it was a good one! I really enjoyed this book! Carl and Assad are a great pair. Assad is a character I want to know more about. I liked that part of the story was told from Merete's point of view. This was my first book by Jussi Adler-Olsen and I'm looking forward to more.
It seems he no longer cares.His superiors try to solve the Mørck problem by moving him sideways into a new department – Department Q – intended to deal with cold cases.
Some material held back for the next book?The file they end up working on, their first case, concerns a politician who disappeared from a ferry in 2002.
(Although Lynggaard is a politician and the book is set in Denmark, readers should not expect the same level of political intrigue as in the Danish TV series, The Killing.)The question is who has kidnapped Lynggaard and why?
Ich entdecke Reihen ja auch gerne erst später für mich, denn das bedeutet, dass man erstmal viel Lesestoff hat und nicht ewig auf die Folgebände warten muss.
Zusammen mit seinem Assistenten vertiefen sie sich in die Fallakten und stoßen so natürlich auf kleine Details, die zuvor übersehen wurden.
Es waren zwar keine offensichtlichen Dinge, jedoch sollte man schon meinen, dass bei der Polizeiarbeit gründlicher vorgegangen wird?Die Geschichte machte auch besonders viel Freude, weil beide Ermittler einfach sehr sympathisch waren.
Man bekam ein wenig Hintergrundinformationen zu Carl Mørck und warum ausgerechnet er diese unliebsame Aufgabe bekam.Ich werde die Reihe auf jeden Fall weiterverfolgen und freue mich schon auf die nächsten Fälle.
NOTE: My edition is titled 'Mercy', but this book also appears under the title of 'The Keeper of Lost Causes'.Danish Detective Inspector Carl Morck is a cynical, disillusioned officer who is suffering from a form of PTSD.
He's given an "office" in the basement and a quirky Arab assistant named Assad, whose behaviour disconcerts the moody Morck.They are given a stack of cold cases to investigate and the first they look into is that of Merete Lynggaard, a prominent, beautiful politican who disappeared after apparently falling off a ferry on a trip to Germany.
For me the most engaging character was Mr Assad, who brought so much vitality and unintended humour to the story and to Morck's glum personality.5★s
The first chapter had me hooked on the case and the second chapter had me fascinated with the main character, Copenhagen detective Carl Morck.
His Syrian assistant, Assad, is both comic relief and a very intriguing character as he demonstrates great insight into detective work and has amazing contacts and capabilities which provoke interest in his mysterious past.
Carl and Assad make a great team, their opposing characters bounce off each other as each gains great respect for the other.The case was fabulous!
The point of view alternates between the present with Carl investigating the disappearance and with the past as we watch what happened to the victim unfold until the years meet up with the present.
(The back story of this sister and brother is a whole novel in itself.) Carl's job is to take a second look at the case, and yes he finds holes everywhere.
(Suffice to say the original investigation was a slipshod, botch job.) As he maneuvers his own personal issues and learns to get along (and appreciate) his only assistant, Assad from Syria, Carl slowly, meticulously, and methodically solves the case.Now I also figured it out about two-thirds in, but I've read a zillion mysteries.
This mystery has it all.I am going to read all Mr. Adler-Olsen's books.
I really enjoyed this one! Loved Carl Morck and his right-hand man, Assad. Not much was revealed about Assad, hopefully will learn more in future books. I had quite a few laugh out loud moments with these two characters. This is a very gripping story about the disappearance (five years prior) of a very popular woman in Demark politics. The case was never solved. Carl Morck is the police officer assigned to head the new Department Q, which looks into cold cases. This is their first case. Looking forward to reading all of these!
3stars....a good enough danish detective debut....interesting characters and mystery BUT weighed down by predictability and waaaaaay too many cliches...I will try the second in the series at some point.
Dugo nisam čitala knjige poput ove, i mislim da sam očekivala više!To, i prevod koji mi se iskreno nije baš preterano dopao (doduše, sada više ni ne znam da li je zaista do prevoda ili je knjiga pisana upravo na taj način) su doprineli tome da ocena ne bude veća.Mislim da sam želela da vidim više "žene u kavezu", a manje namćorastog inspektora ali onda sam shvatila da knjiga ima još nastavaka, i da je ovo verovatno serija o "namćorastom inspektoru" i da je ovo bio samo jedan od njegovih slučajeva.Sve vreme se nisam mogla oteti utisku da knjiga kao da je pisana da bi postala jedna od onih kriminalističkih televizijskih mini serija.
A dark, but not completely overwhelmingly so, Danish mystery. The Nordic nations do seem to excel at writing the suffering into a crime novel. It certainly makes them more intense. As I often find, the unlikely sidekick is the star of the show. The main investigator started out pretty interesting and became a little less so, instead of more so, as the book progressed. I figured out who-and-why dunnit around the middle of the book, but that didn't spoil it for me. Plenty of suspense, along with some life-interest in the principal characters.
