https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5962205-after-the-fireworks
And if you appreciate his subtlety, his impeccable skill at crafting characters by virtue of their actions and thoughts, his consistency and his love of phrasing --- if you can laugh at Miles & Pam and admit your own complicity, existence, in their stories ---if you believe, for a split second, that there's something deeper that the two of them are desperately ignoring, can't quite articulate, that comes to a head then fizzles to nothing ---if you trust that Huxley is among the greats and let him spin his magic ---then this will, in fact, be fireworks.
Ομολογώ, είχα μια διαφορετική εικόνα στο μυαλό μου για τον Χάξλεϊ διαβάζοντας το Brave new world, Δηλαδή δεν μπορούσα να τον φανταστώ να γράφει κάτι άλλο παρεκτός από φαντασία - δυστοπία.
Κι' όμως , μου άρεσε ο τρόπος της αφήγησης του σε αυτή τη νουβέλα , η οποία πραγματεύεται αυτό που δηλώνει και ο τίτλος της , σε δυο επίπεδα.
Ήξερε από την αρχή ο πενηντάχρονος συγγραφέας- ήρωας της νουβέλας, εν ονόματι Μάιλς , τι θα συνέβαινε αν υπέκυπτε στο πάθος της 20χρονης Παμέλας...
Μου άρεσε, αλλά δεν με συντάραξε και συθέμελα.
After the Fireworks was originally published in the 1930s and is supposed to be satirical, but I didn't really get the satire in it.The story follows a well-known, middle-aged, womanising novelist and a 21 year-old fan who meets up with him in Rome.
He takes her around Rome trying to educate her while trying to resist her advances, even though he's interested in her.There is some philosophical discussion throughout, which is sometimes interesting and sometimes a little tedious.
Beautifully depressing but oddly disatisfying. I don't care about the egocentric Miles or the essentially narcissistic Pamela so their ultimate predicament didn't move me the way I felt it should. Still, an accurate description of the emotions when you realise you've fallen out of love with someone.
Tough read. Thankfully short. I enjoyed the intro by Fay Weldon more than the book, and she convinced me I'd liked it more than I thought I had!
Fanning is interested in Pamela because of her youth, beauty and their shared interest of animal metaphors, and she, for his insight and ability to make her feel at ease.The book begins humorously, with Fanning scolded by a friend who lends him his home at Rome for a few months.
Though he knew that Pamela did not love him, but an image she created of him, he fell into the temptation of youth and lost himself.
The book is deeply powerful in that it makes the reader question whether we, like Pamela, are crafting the image of other people by the way we want them to be.
Middle-aged-landia. That place.
Not recommended.
Another reviewer aptly said "I don't care about the egocentric Miles or the essentially narcissistic Pamela so their ultimate predicament didn't move me the way I felt it should." I didn't understand at all the satire, which is perhaps an indictment on me but as a reasonably intelligent and well-read human being I'm not fussed by such pretension.
There was one idea that I did like, however, namely:"That's the definition of culture - knowing and thinking about things that have absolutely nothing to do with us.
[...] Get to know those people; [i]they'll[/i] make you see the point of culture.
Just as the Sahara'll make you see the point of water."
ორივე მოთხრობაში მწერალი გვიჩვენებს სიყვარულის უძლურებას იმ არსებული პირობების ფონზე: განსხვავება ასაკს, ინტერესებს შორის, გამორიცხავს წყვილის ხანგრძლივ ბედნიერებას.მომეწონა მწერლის ენა და განსაკუთრებით ფინალები.
