https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/53418.The_Winners
Cortázar has chosen his actors well, drawing from the lower, middle, and upper classes and achieving a near split between conservative and liberal inclinations; a microcosm of Argentina recreated afloat the southern Atlantic Ocean.After the lucky shipmates have gathered at a local café for pre-boarding, things take a rather inauspicious turn when, under cover of a Buenos Aires' eventide, they are quickly ushered by State officials and police into an unmarked black bus and whisked away to a secluded port, where they are informed that a last-minute change of plans has resulted in their boarding a different ship - the Malcolm - a partial freighter, and one with a curious crew that, as becomes quickly apparent, has closed off the stern portion of the vessel to their prize-claiming guests.
Le basta con dejar a sus personajes expresarse, comunicarse, dar sus impresiones y en el caso de uno de ellos en particular (Persio), interpolar filosóficos soliloquios entre los capítulos, algo de lo que Cortázar se disculpa con aquellos lectores que prefieren “divertirse en línea recta”, es decir, con la novela tradicional sin necesidad de interrupciones, algo que definitivamente explotaría al máximo tres años después en obra maestra, o sea, “Rayuela”.
Aunque se podría decir algo parecido de muchas obras literarias de cualquier género o época, en este caso la idea cobra un sentido más completo: leer ‘Los premios’ es como observar a los personajes a través de un agujerito desde la habitación de al lado, contemplar las escenas desde dentro como un espectador presente e invisible.La presencia constante de un misterio u otro es el hilo conductor de todos los acontecimientos.
El propio barco mantiene su secreto: tienen prohibido el acceso a la popa, lo que despierta inquietud o indiferencia en algunos de los pasajeros y un ansia irreprimible de aventuras en otros.Reseña completa y mi versión de la portada en http://sidumbledorefueralibrero.com/2...

The winners of a lottery, a bunch of sundry people thrown together by pure chance, have received tickets for a mysterious luxury cruise.
But once on board and out of port they are isolated and quarantined ostensibly to eschew a contagious disease.
So they sail to a destination unknown and to an unknown destiny.“And it is as if in the disorder of rapid thought and in the fluctuation of his blood, a law is slowly coagulating, the law which is the mother of the future and the beginning of an inexorable route.”And the ship becomes a model of the world and the passengers turn into a replica of society with its own conformists and rebels, sympathies and enmities, those who wield power and those who obey…Thus already in his first novel Julio Cortázar showed his deep understanding of human relationships.
Neste “Os Prémios”, Julio Cortázar leva-nos a participar num thriller eletrizante que nos deixa sem respiração que nos faz prisioneiros da sua leitura desde a primeira página.
Um grupo constituído por cerca de quinze pessoas, heterogéneo nas suas personalidades, idades, oriundo dos mais diversos escalões sócio culturais, recebe um prémio que consiste numa viagem num transatlântico de luxo, fruto de uma espécie de rifas vendidas a dez pesos cada.
Entretanto, ficamos todos mais tranquilos pois chega o momento do embarque, a viagem será mesmo uma realidade mas … daqui para a frente, só lendo.O que se pode dizer sem retirar o suspense da narrativa?
Това е първата дума, която се появява в мен, щом си спомня за тази книга.
Това само засили удоволствието.Става въпрос за някаква лотария, която на случаен принцип избира екипаж за корабен круиз.
Неговите глави представят романа през една по-специфична гледна точка, която прочита действията на останалите герои през по-метафизична призма и която свързва едно глобално, над-човешко вглеждане в ситуацията на кораба, с едно вътрешно проникване в мислите и душите на героите.Заглавието в множество небългарски преводи, а и оригиналното, всъщност е "Победителите".
А може и да не го направи и да се остави още малко в малкия свят на круизния кораб и загадъчните неща, които се случват там.Романът е невероятно изживяване и за мен остава един от шедьоврите на ХХ век.
Winners of a lottery embark upon a mysterious cruise-ship to unknown location. Since the passengers make up a determined microcosm of society, the more urgent instances of intrigue tend to be subsumed in metaphysical socio-political allegory on how people accept or rebel against the unknown and arbitrary, but both parallel levels are handled pretty well, though not so elegantly as in some like the later 62: A Model Kit. Honestly, I could have stood for more immersion in mystery than philosophical conversation, but this is worthwhile either way.
The story understands it's a story.
And his sentences and dialog sometimes allow gaps to be left as words can do.
He'll describe things and then also say things the vague way we've come to understand them spoken.
His writing is almost like a Godard film, where he would intentionally add messy edits that reminded you that it's a movie.
I didn't like how many characters there were at first.
And they aren't introduced in a way that makes them at first indistinguishable.
As if we enter in on them on dialog that's not important more than being just 'banter'.
The one-star rating is not related to the quality of the novel as such; I guess it is a good piece of literature if most people say so. I am, however, blinded by the deep dislike I developed for this book and its characters. I felt detached from the story, the conversations felt forced and unnatural and every so often I found myself thinking: 'Yeah right!'.
es la primera vez que me quedo hasta las 6 a.m. leyendoInesperado, como espero de cada pieza cortaziana
It was a bit engaging and humorous at the beginning , but for some reason I was hoping it would maintain that same vein during the whole thing and it didn't.
I couldn't possibly think of any more useless characters than Felipe and Raúl.Well, this goes to show that the second you like an author, you don't have to love each work of theirs with the same passion, an unquestionable support which is near to fanatism.
I think it went on for too long.
Hopscotch was much better in my eyes, but I know it's unfair not to mention that it was the product of a lot of previous work.
قراءة خوليو كورتاثار في رواية ( الرابحون - 475 صفحة ) تحتاج إلى صبر ماراثوني، إلى وضع الأصبع في البداية، ثم اليد.
لا مجال للتقشف في هذه الرواية، فإما أن تعترف بكسلك، وتسلم نفسك إلى روايات الاستمناء الذهني، أو تكون قارئاً صبوراً، وتلعب اللعبة مع كورتاثار، الذي لا يبدو مستاء، وهو يلمح إلى أن سفينة الشحن مالكولم تشبه إلى حد ما سفينة الموت، التي أبحرت بالركاب من دون طاقم، في قصة كان قد قرأها من قبل، وبالتالي، فإنه لن ينتظر " ابو العرّيف " بعد قراءة الرواية، ليتحذلق برأسه قائلاً، هناك تناص بينك وبين قصة لسوتون فان يا عزيزي كورتاثار !
«Los Premios» es la primera novela publicada de Julio Cortázar, en ella narra la historia de un grupo de hombres y de mujeres quienes representan a la sociedad porteña de la época y ganan en la lotería un pasaje para un crucero sin destino conocido.
Una vez a bordo los pasajeros van a tener que lidiar con un enigmático suceso que está dado por el hecho de no poder ingresar en la popa, que dará lugar a diferentes reacciones en los distintos personajes.
Es una novela muy interesante y entretenida no sólo porque te deja expectante queriendo saber qué es lo que sucede en la popa sino también por los vínculos que se forman y la riqueza y profundidad de algunos personajes.
كانت المحاولة الثانية لقراءة خوليو كورتاثار ..وللأسف لم تكتمل مثل سابقتها ..شعرت أنني وسط ثرثرة لا تنتهي ،وحوار لم أدرك إلي أين يتجه !!! للأسف لم استطع أن أكملها ،ولكني لن اقيمها من محاولة القراءة الأولي ،بالتأكيد سأعطيها فرصة أخري قريبا ...
Throughout the book, I would ask myself ''How good is it so far?'' and the answer was quite surprising.In the beginning, when the characters are introduced in the bar, the atmosphere set by Cortazar is amazing: the sounds, the smoke, the people drinking and talking, yelling and laughing, almost makes you feel like you're also part of the journey they're about to make.
You could get past this, but then the things that made me give the book this rating makes place: metaphysical descriptions.
But then, all the characters seem to get drugged and talk in metaphysical terms.
Poate ca prietena mea are dreptate si nu pot eu sa ma bucur de naratiune cand nu face nici un sens pentru mine dar cine accepta sa porneasca intr o croaziera castigata din senin pe un vas de croaziera care numai a vas de croaziera nu semana, intampinati de niste oameni mega suspiciosi?!!
Macar de ar fii fost actiunea ceva palpitant dar mai plictisitor de atat nu stiu daca se putea si ma intalnesc cu destule personaje banale care se plang toata ziua la servici ca sa vreau sa mai citesc despre ele si in carti.
Noroc cu Paula, Raul si alte cateva personaje care au mai salvat aparentele.
Lo único que le quitaría sería las últimas páginas que contienen algo así como una explicación del proceso creativo, que a mi humilde parecer sobran y le restan belleza al resto del trabajo.Este fue el libro que yo leí (Aclaro que yo no le dibujé esas horrorosas rayas.
Ya venía así cuando llegó a mis manos)Aquí, al final de la página 69, una de las frases que me han acompañado toda la vida.
Pues fue aquí, y hace muchos años ya: "El paso de la dicha a la costumbre es una de las mejores armas de la muerte"Aquí viene un ejemplo de por qué Cortázar es un grande entre los grandes.
Many of the romantic scenes have an air of "Strangers on a Train" or the like, as the Antonioni connection is not incidental; Cortázar was a cinephile who adored and cited many American and European films and actors in his work, including this one.
Hopscotch is a favorite of mine.
It's dreamlike, funny, and moving by turns, and it's all cut-up and Bohemian and shit.
I guess that sets the bar pretty high.We get glimpses of Cortázar's later work in this early volume.
It tries to generate a sense of alienation and absurdity, but it's not written with enough force to be convincing in the way that Beckett and Ballard can be when they're writing about absurd situations.
Oh, and there are way too many characters.
I get glimpses of them, and they MIGHT be interesting, but unlike the glittering cast of Hopscotch, they are mere shadows.
Interesante, la dinámica del misterio y el encierro siempre son atractivas, y si le sumamos buenos personajes, relaciones humanas en toda su complejidad y contradicción, una sutil crítica social, el resultado es una novela inesperadamente adictiva, algo diferente a las otras de Cortázar por ser aparentemente más "light", pero es sólo la apariencia.
Siempre el trasfondo son los vínculos, las dinámicas que se dan entre las personas, con sus miserias y sus virtudes, de forma más o menos explícita.
Quizás uno que otro diálogo un poco forzado (no todos nos explayamos en profundas conversaciones metafísicas con alguien que recién conocemos), pero en resumen una excelente novela.
Un crucero insólito de 3 días que parecía duraría hasta el infinito.Si a Cortázar le sirvió para “… alzar una especie de biombo que me aislara lo más posible de la afabilidad que aquejaba a los pasajeros de tercera clase del Claude Bernard (ida) y del Conte Grande (vuelta)”, a mí me sirvió para mascarar esperas en consultorios y miradas indiscretas en los viajes. Pasamos el verano juntos y casi junto con el verano, se terminó.http://arch190.com/2009/09/14/los-pre...En español.
Прочетох "Лотарията" на Кортасар. Трудно ми е да я опиша. Нещо като тридневен Биг Брадър на един кораб, но разказан с големия талант на писателя. Лашках се между епизоди, които ме сграбчваха здраво и такива на досада. Казват, че тази книга предшества най-доброто му произведение - "Игра на дама", която мисля също да започна скоро.
Бъбривостта на Кортасар ми действа като шапка от непоносимо тежка сметана. Най-доброто в книгата са пасажите в курсив.
استطيع اختصار الـ 470 بيج بكلمه واحده (مُمِلـــَهَ)
كورتاثار يخلق عالماً ممتلئاً شعراً، نفسك يهبط ويتسارع في كلّ الاتجاهات، ستحبّ وتكره وتتعاطف، وتدخّن وتسكر، وستتألم كثيراًوسترى في النهاية صورة ما لما يبدو كالحقيقة دون ثقة كبيرة أنّه كذلك
It took few chapters to realise the quality of Cortazar ‘s writing in this ambitious project about a group of Argentinian citizens who have gathered together for a free cruise won in a state lottery.
Like the game show, both the restrictive set-up and melting pot of personalities, serve for interesting social dynamics amongst the various passengers which on the whole, Cortazar skilfully conveys (a group I assume is a quintessential microcosm of Argentinian society at the time of writing).
Fallé garrafalmente: en efecto no son el mismo, en la novela no tiene la fantasía traicionera de sus cuentos, donde juega y reta al lector, sin embargo, se permite ser mucho más honesto, más abierto; en sus narraciones cortas deja que su mente cree juegos espectaculares, en la novela deja a los sentimientos escupir la intimidad.
Los premios resultó ser más que una grata sorpresa, se volvió mi no puedo dejar de leer, ver a los personajes desenvolverse de principio a fin en este drama fue simplemente exquisito, tan natural y tan trágico.
Mi único reproche es que Julio no haya querido desarrollar más el drama entre Raúl y Felipe, muy bonito, delicado, terrible, patético, natural, pero ni él mismo sabía a dónde iba esto.
To the last sentence, I did not know where this book was taking me, just like the characters had no idea where the cruise ship they embarked on was taking them.
There are so many levels, none of them concluding, one can begin to reflect about this book.
Are the chosen characters prototypes for the human categories labeled as misfits by our society?
Is it a book about death and about our individual journey to it?
Does it mean anything that the only human sacrifice comes from the one character who has finally found peace with himself?
Es una novela muy interesante desde el punto de vista narrativo y por la construcción de los personajes. Aunque hay una gran variedad de tipos sociales, un buen número de ellos no están presentados de forma tan plana como habitualmente se trata este tipo de personajes, sino que se nos permite conocer sus pensamientos y sentimientos, sus contradicciones internas y sus miedos a través del estilo indirecto libre de la voz narradora. La trama mantiene en al lector envuelto en una absurda y pesada atmósfera de incertidumbre y misterio.
