https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34605.The_Damnation_Game
Since then, we have seen similar things happen in horror novels, but at the time, other than King and maybe a couple others, I don't recall books like this.
There are many characters besides the villain: an aging billionaire, his heroin-addicted daughter, an obese pedophile serial killer, an ex-convict.I felt that some parts were a little over-long, but overall, I enjoyed it.
Breer, the obese rotting serial killer was probably the grossest thing I have read in quite awhile.
Like I said, some of this is probably now not groundbreaking or original, but at the time, I think it was.
The Damnation Game bleeds the dark, sensual eroticism and morbid imagination that has become the Barker signature.
Barker has sown the seeds of a fantastical world within the pages of this book, where the reader is truly gripped by the imagination Clive has unleashed within.
It is a masterpiece of a disturbing atmospheric darkness and the storyline's suspense and plot development are outstanding.
It's very hard to put this book down and you will honestly find yourselves immersed within the novel within seconds of picking it up.I strongly recommend this masterpiece of dark fantasy horror to anyone and everyone.
This is, hands down, the scariest book I have ever read.
Since I only had a couple of days to read this and another book (716 pages in 2 days!), I stayed up till about 2 am reading this.
BAD IDEA!!
I started out reading it in the lounge, but moved into my room at some point.
And that was when the trouble started.
At some point I needed a bathroom break.
I was afraid the bad man from the story would be out there.
I'd like to take this moment to point out that I was 27 when I read this.
No matter how much graphic violence on dead dogs or how much rotting meat crawling with maggots and oozing with puss is shown, a horror story demands a little more.
His "hero" here, Marty, a semi-parolee, is a nuanced character who learns as he goes, expanding his internal horizons even as the horror slowly mounts.
Indeed, all the characters are full, contradictory human beings, with the chemical-industry titan, Whitehead, able to alternate convincingly between unleavened arrogance and small-minded fear.
Because, unlike King, Barker maintains an authorial distance from his characters – as though watching a lab experiment unfold – that, at least to my mind, dampens the immediacy of the horror.
4.5 stars.Let me first say that Clive Barker’s writing and use of language is impeccable.
I loved this story quite a lot, and I grew connected to the main character in this book more than I have in any book in quite a while.
My main problems with this book lay with the antagonist: while Mammoulian is an intriguing character I still don’t entirely understand his motivations.
I can definitely tell this was Barker’s debut novel, and his transition from the shorter medium to his first full length is apparent, yet The Damnation Game is still worth any horror reader’s time.
This debut novel by Clive Barker appeared on the horror scene after he established himself as the next “big thing” After Stephen King.
I think like many people King thought Barker was a great short story author but not as good at the novels.
There was a time when he was my favorite author.When Damnation game came out Barker had a mountain climb.
Coldheart Canyon is Barker's most straight forward Horror tale, better than most give it credit for, but it is still 100 pages to long in this reader's opinion.So Damnation Game, the structure of the novel holds up well.
What was somewhat interesting at first, quickly reveals being incredibly shallow and from that point on the book becomes utterly boring til the end.At about the halfway point The Damnation Game switches gears and spends most of its length repeatedly trying to gross you out (and not very convincingly, actually) in what seems like a checklist of sickening depictions and unnecessarily detailed descriptions.
This trope works quite well when it's done once (and well), not when every other scene past the halfway point is like "hey, here's some gross stuff I arbitrarily picked from this list!".The writing is all over the place, at times it's surprisingly good, but most of the time it just seems to go out of the way to try to be unnecessarily descriptive about irrelevant things.
Barker's "The Great and Secret Show" is one of my favorite books of all time, so admittedly, I have a rather high bar that I expect from him.
Despite my expectations, this piece of shit book simply will not do.
The book continues plodding through the mercilessly trite and mundane plot, even going so far as to reveal that Mamoulian, the antagonist, is not the Devil, or indeed, even a devil, but merely a human who had mysteriously gained powers via an enigmatic monk.
This decision seemed to be Barker's way of misleading the reader from the predictable, yet wholly more interesting, revelation of Mamoulian being some sort of an agent of Satan.
Clive Barker is a talented storyteller who writes with some of the darkest creativity. This is a good story of a game where some characters get into people's minds and see their thoughts and can control them. There is a man set on revenge and the power of resurrecting the dead. Barker has created characters that perpetrate the most henious acts. He brings to the table a unique writing style where he immerses us into to other dimensions of fear.
As for the story, learning after the fact that this is Clive Barker's first novel, I must say I am impressed.
I'd read his Books of Blood before this, as well as Cabal (love BTW), and bits of other books I intend to finish soon.
I was disappointed in Marty's (or was it Martin?) character.
The rest of the characters are fantastic.
I loved Whitehead's vulnerability and Creys' power yet dependency.
For a story built around duality and life over death, or death over life, I feel the conclusion came to a satisfying end.
I've started this review several times now, and can't quite decide on it.I have a long standing love hate relationship with Mr Barker, I have learned, through long experience that he is either astounding or awful, and there doesn't appear to be a middle ground, but even when his stories are awful his prose is beautiful, it's worth it just for the language.So, the damnation game, his first novel, published just after the Books of Blood but before the hellbound heart.Chronologically that puts it in between a lot of his best work, and this is his most "pure" horror novel.
This was an interesting audio book, I don't know who the narrators were but they were excellent, they performed each character and I loved it as well as the background music. Maybe I would have perceived the book differently had I read it, I don't really know, but it was a very entertaining read. This was my first Clive Barker book and I'm already listening the next one: Cabal and I find this one begins even better! I think I have found a new favorite author to explore in my future reads.
a beautifully written - blood filled/terror ride - this book gave nightmares - Clive Barker is at once restrained and deadly with words - he is excellent at simply writing clean - beautiful language with the talent Hemingway lacked for creating images that are not easily erased.
4.5 όλα δικά του και το μισό που χάνει είναι απλά γιατί νομίζω πως η φλυαρία του αφαίρεσε την απόλυτη λάμψη της δόξας του.
Με τον Barker ξέρεις ότι αυτό που θα διαβάσεις δεν είναι ένα απλό θρίλερ.
Οι περιγραφές και οι παραλληλισμοί του γεννάνε κόσμους απίθανους μα και τρομακτικους συνάμα, που συνειδητά τους αφήνεις να σε στοιχειώσουν.
Συμπαθείς φιγούρα ο Γουαιτχεντ, θα τον ήθελα με λίγο πιο πολλές δεξιότητες.
Λατρεία ο Μαμούλιαν και οι κολασμενες ψευδαισθήσεις που δημιουργούσε τόσο μα τόσο ζωντανές που τις βλέπεις μπροστά σου.
Για τον Στράους και την Καρις δεν θα αναφερθώ καθόλου, μου είμαι ακόμη λίγο αδιασαφήνιστοι.
The Damnation game has it's merits, the mystery and buildup are engrossing and dangerously tantalizing, the release however needs some work and heavy editing, considering that this was the authors first long novel all is forgiven because this is a good read, I'm glad I got to experience it even though it dragged a bit and was too light and relied on too many reader interpretations to rise to the top.I had the pleasure of reading the newest reprint of this with a new introduction by the author himself which was very nice, whatever critique I give to the book is nothing in comparison to what it takes to write a book, this is his baby, his work of art and I'm happy to say I got to read it even if it wasn't perfect to my taste.
What kept me reading was Clive Barker's lovely prose (The Damnation Game is, from a technical standpoint, very well written) and the knowledge that this story's pay off would probably be worth my trudging onward.
I know Barker's later novels are more expansive and fantastical, and I'm super eager to get to them.
I'd rather read a novel in which Barker fully employs the potential of his imagination, instead of trying to scare me (and I must admit this book did chill me a time or two).
As I said, this novel is very predictable (which is so frustrating — I know Clive Barker is better than this!).
I have my mother to thank for this read.
All I’d asked for was a couple of her old Stephen King books but the next thing I knew she had given me King, Koontz, Herbert, Barker, and all her other suspense masters.
Needless to say, the books will be devoured.For a while there have been a couple of Barker books on my to-read list but this was never one of them.
After reading this it seems as though I have found another author to eat up my money.Whilst the story itself was not quite what I had been expecting, once I got into it I came to really love where things were going.
I don’t know what it is about Barker.
Barker has an uncanny ability to fuse the horrendous with the ethereal, the sublime and the profane.
This book is definitely not for everyone, as it deals with some very horrific elements that sometimes skirt the line of literary decency (to give you an example, one of the minor characters is a razor-eating pedophilic child murderer who’s corrupt soul is mirrored by his slowly decaying body), but in the end I can’t help but recommend it to readers with a strong stomach on the merits of its often poetic language and the interesting metaphysical questions it address.
Uzun zamandır beni bu kadar içine çeken sürükleyici ve de edebi bir eser okumamıştım.
Clive Barker’ın yıllar önce Kan Kitapları -2 adlı öykü derlemesiyle Kabal adındaki romanını okumuş, beğenmiş fakat içeriğindeki aşırı şiddet ve cinsellik sahneleri yüzünden yazarın başka bir kitabını elime almamıştım.
Ta ki Lanetlenme Oyunu’na dek.
İki günde 488 sayfalık kitabı bitirdim.
Bu kitapta da oldukça fazla mide kaldıran dehşet sahneleri vardı.
(Ki dehşet sahnelerini severim, gerektiği yerde.
Ama Clive Barker sanki şeytanın kendisiymişçesine yazıyor bazı sahneleri, aşırının aşırısı)Yine de okuduğuma çok mutluyum.
Konusu, anlatımı, çevirisiyle harika bir korku romanıydı.
Korku romanı sevenler, hatta geniş anlamıyla fantastik roman severler bunu okuyabilir.
Absolutely excellent book.
The Damnation Game was my introduction into the mind of Clive Barker and I now realize why he has received such unwavering praise and adoration from readers.
I am also inclined to agree with those aforementioned readers.
This novel was terrific.
It hooked me in from the first few pages and I found myself eagerly anticipating the rest of the story.
It contained many twisted images of the macabre that Barker has come to be associated with.
The end is satisfying and the plot is engrossing from page one.
I would highly recommend this book.
Pure raw horrorMarty Strauss, a gambling addict, has just been released from prison when he gets hired as a personal bodyguard of Joseph Whitehead, one of the richest men on earth.
When the mansion gets invaded by a devilish man named Mamoulian, it becomes clear that a simple gun won't help against his powers.The Damnation Game is the first novel by Clive Barker, directly written after he published his first trilogy of highly renowned Books of Blood.
Although it is actually his debut, all the strong characteristics of his later works can be found in this Faustian story.
What a smart, dazzling, gleefully obscene work of horror fiction!
I've slowly grown bored with most contemporary "literary" novels, and so have been slumming it up with authors like Clive Barker -- his Books of Blood is so good I don't ever want it to end -- and Clark Ashton Smith.
I swear, the last third of this book had some of the most riveting action I've read in a long time.
(How a writer can make hallucinated shit-monsters emerging from a gaping toilet poetic is beyond me.) Barker writes gorgeous Grand Guignol set-pieces that make most of today's horror authors look mild.
Clive Barker's mind is a terrifying, brilliant place. This is a very dark book, but the visions are engrossing. It unfolds slowly, and then, as only Clive Barker can do, it descends into dark fantasy and grotesque horror. It is a masterclass in horror, and for me, a nostalgic nod to old school horror, and great, childlike storytelling--around a campfire. This book reads like watching a movie you shouldn't watch so young. And then, in the same space, remembering the time you watched the movie. Stunning darkness.
Barker's first and still one of his best. Masterful stuff. In my great Clive Barker reread, I saved this for last. Now I get to read The Scarlet Gospels.
Barker logra convencerme con su primera novela.
Cuando parecía que hacia el final decaía, remonta bastante con un final que me deja muy buen sabor de boca.
Además tiene todo lo mejor del terror que se escribía en aquella época y de la impronta de las ideas originales de un novato Barker en estado de creatividad: realidades paralelas, seres mezcla de dioses y demonios, resurreción de la carne putrefacta, todo sumado a un relato fáustico bastante atractivo...
algunas imágenes y escenas bastante potentes, que hacen que se lea sin distracciones hasta el final.
Para ser su primera novela, me parece un logro.
Preporucujem...odlicna!
The self-indulgent protagonist who sets out to live a hedonistic life and reaches a point where nothing excites or pleases anymore...so he begins to indulge in perversities.
This of course gets more and more....well, perverse.This book is (as Barker points out) the writer's take on Faust, only, who's Faust here?
Is it the "self" or is there a "devil" (or Devil)behind the scene?Barker likes the gross out a little more than I do and I found this book almost wholly lacking in terror, or psychological horror.
He even points out that he benefited from Mr. King's arrival on the scene.
Am I right?) Anyway, a few years later, Barker's full-length novel was translated to Swedish and readily available for me for real.I think I loved it before I read it actually, and when I read it, I still loved it.
A couple of re-reads later I still think it's a great book, even if I now know the nostalgia-infusion does a lot for it.
Maybe Barker did better in the short format (he fell off my map and I haven't read much more since, actually), I don't know.
But in the same manner that a horror fan should watch the original "Hellraiser", I think one ought to read this book as well.
It's probably the worst book I've actually finished, so I did at least make it to the end, I'm not sure why.
I was quite interested in the characters, but he did not take me with him on his suspension of belief, when the supernatural stuff started up.
I just thought it was ridiculous, and uninteresting.
Just a few examples:"He tried to stand but his lower limbs were traitorous: they buckled beneath him, and he fell again, feeling every bruise on impact.""Marty hadn't realized how pleasurable the experience of travel had been a passenger of pure thought - until he plunged into Mamoulian's body".
