https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/858513.Chrysanthemum
And no, I am certainly not trying to excuse Chrysanthemum's behaviour as being in any way praiseworthy, but I can and do much understand and actually even rather appreciate it on a personal and emotional level (and think that Victoria more than richly deserves being mildly teased, as one reaps what one has sown, and a dose of one's own bitter medicine might actually and in fact be a healthy tonic for Victoria).And now finally, and as much as I appreciate and even oh so much love Kevin Henkes' narrative, I do not really find his accompanying illustrations equally visually attractive and evocative (although I do consider the pictures bright, fun and sweetly descriptive, and a more than decent accompaniment to the presented, the featured text).
“Chrysanthemum” is a truly heartwarming story that children will easily enjoy for many years.Kevin Henkes has done an excellent job at both writing and illustrating this book.
Kevin Henkes’ story about how Chrysanthemum starts to loathe her name because some kids teased her about her name is easily relatable to children who have also been teased about their names.
Also, the story does a great job at describing how much Chrysanthemum loves her name and even though she was teased about her name, she learns to accept her name and many children will learn that they should not let other kids tease them about their names and that they should accept who they are no matter what.
I loved the subplot, told only in the pictures, wherein the father consults archaic psychological texts in order to understand his daughter's distress.
Having saddled my eldest with a somewhat unusual name, I used to read this book to him frequently in the hopes that he would absorb the message that an unusual name is something you can be proud of.
I can't say for sure whether this story made a difference, but he likes his name and has never let anyone's teasing change his mind.
Chrysanthemum is so much fun to read.
I do wish that the epilogue was just a little different.
It ends the story on a slightly sour note that keeps the book from being absolutely perfect.
I enjoyed this book and reading the discussion about it.
For example, the books Dad was reading or the chalkboard with words.
I will have to share this book with Kaylee and her cousin Max when they are old enough to read.
As for the story itself, I agree with all points made in the discussion group here on goodreads in the Children's Picture Book Club.
That isn't something I want my daughter to think is okay.I loved Mrs. Twinkle and her interesting dress.
Not sure I could have rocked that dress when I was pregnant, but she sure did!
As a parent, I can surely relate to the teasing that children can dish out.
My son was much like Chysanthemum, confident in himself and excited about going to school.
But he had to deal with being teased too - as son many kids are.
And soon, the other kids wanted to be more like her.The illustrations were a little too cutesy for me, given the theme of bullying and teasing.
But I imagine for children, it might help draw them into the story and make the bullying feel less threatening.
Very cute illustrations and a sweet portrayal of a loving, happy family soften a realistic portrayal of how mean and xenophobic children can be, and how easily a child can be excluded and made to feel abnormal.
Chrysanthemum loves her name, her parents picked just the right one...that is, until she goes to school and all the kids laugh at her name and tease her.
"She's named after a flower...her name doesn't fit on a nametag...", etc.
Chrysanthemum is depressed and disappointed when she gets home from school, but her parents bolster up her self-esteem.
The other kids don't see the light, though, until a very thoughtful, insightful teacher comes to her rescue and saves the day!
Chrysanthemum is a great read-aloud for bullying education...since bullying comes in many forms and in many ways.
Love the water color illustrations.
I absolutely love reading this book with Catherine.
I love the cadence of "Chrysanthemum Chrysanthemum Chrysanthemum" over and over.
I love her outfits.
I love how loving her parents are (and can we talk about her dad's excellent vocabulary and supportive reading habits?) I love how the mean girls get their due in the end and want a little share of Chrysanthemum's unique and magical spirit.
Maybe...just maybe I would like to be Chrysanthemum when I grow up.
In the mean time, if someone finds a dress with seven pockets for my secret treasures couldya help a sister out?
For a basically sweet book, I think it’s a tad too mean at the end, unnecessarily so. But, it can be a helpful book for young kids who have unusual names or get teased for their names, or teased for any other reason. Good also for kids who tease others or those who have witnessed other kids being teased. In other words, just about every young child.
Chrysanthemum is an award-winning picture book written and illustrated by Kevin Henkes.
Eventually with the help of her teacher, Chrysanthemum is able proudly love her name again.
This a great book to introduce to a classroom because the emotions that Chrysanthemum experiences can easily relate to each student.
For younger readers, the illustrations help express Chrysanthemum’s emotions and tell her story.
Unfortunately, many times this ending happens in classrooms and helps classify the story into realistic fiction.
Kevin Henkes has written a series of Mouse Books that are all perfect for the classroom.
Great lesson on self-acceptance and anti-bullying.
Cute story with a wonderful message. I use it to teach kindness, that it is okay to be different, and to love who you are no matter what others say.
I'm not in the habit of rating the dozens and dozens of children's books I read to my kids, but I had to review this one.
Basically, it's about a girl named Chrysanthemum who doesn't like her name, because she gets teased and bullied for it (her friends have 'normal' names).
Suddenly, Chrysanthemum loves her name because her teacher says it's an awesome name.
I hope parents look beyond the books popularity and critically think about what it's message is to young kids.
It's completely beyond me why this book is on must-read lists for young children.
However, I truly believe this book could have been better if her parents engaged a conversation with Chrysanthemum about her feelings.
A typical five years old child is capable of having a conversation to her parents where understanding,talking, and asking questions can be allowed.
I think if Chrysanthemum's parents asked her to defend her name to her classmates; she would have done it.My learning experience:1.
Introduce the word bullying and it's consequences by asking how Chrysanthemum feels every time her classmates teased her about her name.2.
Ask my classroom how and what they can do to help Chrysanthemum to feel better through play acting.
A little white mouse named Chrysanthemum LOVES her moniker, that is until she begins school. That is until an adored teacher named Delphinium helps her and her classmates think of her name in a flattering way.This story is a little long for pre-school age children and perhaps a little out of their experience but it is wonderful for K - 3.
Looking back on books that I read as a child, this was definitely one that made me the reader I am now. I made my mom read this to me over and over again because I loved the story so much. Definitely one of the books that reminds me why I want to work in publishing so badly.
Really cute book! Its one of the only books that i enjoy reading to my one year old sister!*sigh of pleasure*
However, a pregnant music teacher (Mrs. Delphinium Twinkle) defends her, saying how a lot of people have long names and that even she's named after a flower, too.
At the end of the story, Mrs. Twinkle gives birth to a girl and decides to name her Chrysanthemum.Evaluation: I really enjoy reading this story to my students.
This book has won a NCB award and is a staple read for younger children.Teaching Idea: This book would be great to use when teaching students about finding the moral of the story.
One Word Review Game/Challenge: Chrysanthemum - this repetition was used pretty frequently.My Review: There was a lot of repetition used throughout the book - specifically mostly with "Chrysanthemum" - and I think it makes a good book for children. There are some children books that I don't necessarily enjoy, or think make good ones for children, but I did enjoy this one, and it was one of my go-to's when I was younger, for sure. I still do enjoy it, and it's a good read.
Chrysanthemum is coming into your own story about a little girl named Chrysanthemum who just loves her long and beautiful name.
When she starts school a few of her classmates begin to make fun of her name and how long it is.
Chrysanthemum begins to lose the affection that she once held for her long and perfect name.
Mrs. Twinkle, her pregnant music teacher, reveals that she also has a long name and is named after a flower.
This is an encouraging story on how to deal with bullies and how to love yourself no matter what others may think about you.
What an adorable book for children beginning school!
Chrysanthemum is a little mouse who believes her name is as special as she is......until she begins school and all of her classmates taunt her for it.
She allows them to break her spirit despite several attempts from her parents to lift her up.
One day Chrysanthemum's class goes to music class where they meet their new music teacher: Mrs. Twinkle.
When Mrs. Twinkle overhears the students mocking Chrysanthemum's name she divulged to them that her name is Delphinium.
At that moment Chrysanthemum realizes she is extremely special and so is her name!(Illustrator project book)
This is just a fantastic book! I've loved this one for years. I feel it'll be used and loved in classrooms for many years to come. It's a great tale of acceptance, among many other things, and I just thoroughly enjoy sharing this tale each year. It's always a book that is constantly found in the hands of my students.
Inspiring tale about self acceptance and learning to embrace who you are! This story came along at just the right time in my life—a time where I was plagued with extreme self doubt. But if Chrysanthemum can learn to love her self, so can I.
Frachelmartinez
Relatable children's book about being teased for your name
This book has such a powerful message. It is a great book to discuss being proud of who you are and to show teachers how to handle similar situations.
Masinuta Crizantemei are forma de pisica? Tablouri cubiste pe pereti? Victoria e cu stea in frunte. La final apare curcubeul pe strada Crizantemei. In traducerea in romana pe profesoara de muzica vad ca o cheama Margareta, pe aici vad ca in engleza ar fi Delphinium, deci problema nu ar fi chiar atat numele de floare, cat terminatia ciudata a cuvantului.
it was ok
A classic Henkes picture book I enjoyed as a child and now deeply appreciate as an adult who can pick up on his witticisms and who is the mother to a daughter named Zinnia.
