https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/586995.The_Loom_of_Language
This book is a product of its time.
The author's purpose was to aid people to be able to communicate with each other so that understanding between people would contribute to the prevention of future wars.The book contains essays about the Latin and Greek origins of European words.
His argument is that if a person learned the Latin and Greek vocabulary lists and all of the 500 word vocabulary lists of all of the languages he provides that a person could understand and make himself understood anywhere in Europe.There are criticisms of this book by professional linguists.
As such, the book covers Swedish, Danish, Dutch, and German in the Teutonic track and French, Spanish, Portuguese, and Italian in the Romance track, not to mention plenty of discussion of parent languages like Latin and Old English.The Loom of Language shares much information and spirit with The Seven Sieves.
The only annoyance is that the huge tables in Part IV aren't available online somewhere as spreadsheets (the book was written in the '40s) so one could import them into a spaced repetition system like Anki for efficient learning.
If you're interested in a broad overview of languages, not just in studying one of them, then you're going to come across this treasure trove of a book at some stage in your travels.Despite being a bit dated at this stage, it has a modern feel to it due to its practical, no-nonsense approach - Bodmer constantly encourages you to learn short-cuts or heuristics to capitalise on the family resemblances among the different language groups, which many language books fail to do.
In fact they rarely acknowledge other languages, treating their subject as if it was the only language in the world.
Which makes no sense whatsoever.
Well suited for older people and laymen who are interested in languages and linguistics, but certainly not very technical or scientific. So for me it was nice to have some looks in, but it's not too useful, I'd say.
To be brief, this is an excellent over view of language, specifically the Germanic and Romance groups of the Indo European family.
The book is a bit dated and exceptionally Eurocentric in terms of language used and general subject matter, but it is still admirably progressive is certain aspects.
It straddles the line between instruction and archive.
One final note- the final section of the book has extensive word lists for the previously mentioned groups, as well as Greek roots used in scientific terminology.
His section alone might be worth adding this to your collection.
This is one of my favorite books.
I come back to this book year after year to read new chapters and refresh myself on those I've already read.
It's hard to say.The only complaint I have about this wonderful book is that it is old and out of date.
Almost all of the practical language-learning material is still fresh, but the terminology used is a bit dated and a lot of the scholarship lacks details and revisions made more recently.
It's still worth more than ten average books on the topic, in my opinion.
Anyone who loves languages simply has to read this book cover to cover. Bodmer manages to present many of the more interesting anecdotes of linguistic lore in a truly accessible fashion, which alone is worth the time of working through this sizable volume.Anyone who loves learning languages will certainly benefit from his practical advice on how to focus on a combination of important vocabulary and how to triangulate from what you already know into a mastery of virtually every major language in Europe.
A wonderfully compelling book, when I read it cover to cover in high school. Easy to read, packed with comparative information. Although I've gone much farther in my study of languages and of linguistics, this book will remain dear to my heart forever.
This is too awesome not to own. I guess this is the text that set Sun Ra on his whole freaky language trip? Anyways it's not the kind of book I can't read cover to cover but even a partial reading gives you a much better and more holistic sense of how language works.
I have learned alot from this book, mainly how to go about learning other languages as an adult. It has some awesome tables that compare romance languages & teutonic languages side by side. Definitely a good read if you are a language nerd.
One of those I can't read all at once. Really good, but is really a very dense, term-heavy text book about the structure of language. Honestly, is probably used for language studies majors. Skimmable if you're interested in the topic, so don't let that deter you.
One of my favorite books EVER on comparative linguistics!
Awesome overview of the worlds languages and writing, and how they interconnect (and sometimes dont)
Awesome overview of the worlds languages and writing, and how they interconnect (and sometimes don´t)
Wow! This book is a fascinating exploration into the history of language and speech. I bought it only yesterday and I am halfway through this 692 page tome.
