https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12609.The_Spirit_Catches_You_and_You_Fall_Down
For a variety of reasons (both spiritual and practical), the Lees did not follow the treatment plan, and Lia didn't receive the specific care her doctors ordered.
By the time the final seizure came for Lia Lee, her family actively distrusted the people working at the Merced Community Medical Center.
Fadiman intercuts her narrative of Lia Lee’s care with sections on the history of the Hmong in general and the journey of the Lees in particular.
I knew a little about this case, and before I read the book, I was certain I’d feel infuriated with the Hmong family and feel nothing but disrespect for them, and would side with the American side, even though I have my issues with the western medical establishment as well.
My culture is definitely that of an American (well, a subculture anyway, as there are obviously many cultures within America!) and I am fairly wedded to it, but I really appreciated this look into a culture so different from my own.Anne Fadiman does a remarkable job of communicating both sides of this story; it’s probably one of the best examples of cross-cultural understanding that I’ve ever read.
It is intended to be an ethnography, describing two different cultural approaches to Lia's sickness: her Hmong parents' and her American doctors'.Don't read any further unless you don't mind knowing the basic story told in this book (there are no spoilers, since this is not a book with a surprise ending, but if you want to keep a completely open mind, stop now) ...
When Lia ends up brain dead, your heart just hurts for everyone involved.There are a couple of reasons I finally settled on four stars: (1) While the historical background provided in the book is excellent, it drags the story down.
A book like this one should be required reading for anyone who lives in a community of multicultural members, and nowadays that's probably just about everyone.
Sadly, and not surprisingly, those who would probably most benefit from a book like this would probably be the ones least likely to read it.It's an eye-opener on cross-cultural issues, especially those in the medical field, but also in the religious, as the Hmong don't distinguish between the two.
This was recommended to me in a cultural literacy course and it certainly delivered.
The issue is the clash of cultures and the confusing and heartbreaking results.
And the takeaway lesson is in how to conduct your life once you realize that you really have no idea what underpins most other people's framework of reality and have no claims on the truth.
It makes you want to beat a hasty retreat from judgment and be a better person.
It makes you want to listen more, forgive more, learn more about people, and allow for more realities.
Highly recommended.
In Hmong culture they revere their children so much, it is wonderful. This little girl was her parent's favorite and they believed her epilepsy was a special gift that made her more in tune with the spirit world. Many of the spirit healers in Hmong society have epilepsy.More largely, this is the story of a clash between western and eastern cultures, a communication lapse that ultimately ended up hurting the parents of this little girl very profoundly.
Western medicine seems to not only classify problems into different aspects of the overall human – physical, mental, emotional and spiritual, it tends to also over-categorize – different physicians for different organs or diseases, specialization etc.
On the other hand, according to Fadiman, the Hmong don’t even bother with the separation of these different aspects; they do not even have a concept of ‘organs’ making up a human body.
By categorizing people according to gender, class and race we try to assign people different roles and duties, further illustrating society’s desire to control individual lives - to maintain ‘order’.
Having just learned that Lia, the subject of the book, passed away within the last week I'd like to express sheer admiration to her family, and especially her parents, for loving and caring for her for so many years.
Along with a large influx of Hmong, Lia lived in Merced, CA when she experienced her first seizures.
I found it a fascinating read, clearly written.
It is heartening to learn that this book is being used in educational settings.
A must read for anyone who works in a field involving interaction with peoples of various cultures as well as lay readers.
While I consider myself a culturally sensitive individual, having been raised in a family of doctors and nurses, I have long held the conviction that the world's best doctors (whether imported or native) tread on American soil.
What she found was that the doctors' orders, prescribed medications, hospital care, etc., were all based on a number of Western assumptions that did not take the family's (and child's) best interests into consideration.
If there is a moral to Fadiman's work, it may be this: The best doctors are not those who know the most, but rather those who admit what they do not know, and try to understand the full picture.
The epilepsy was less of a problem for them, because epileptic people have a special place in their society, and many Hmong people with epilepsy go on to becomes healers and shamans.Much of the rest of the book—I don’t want to ruin it for you—is the story of how caring California doctors failed to tune in to the Lees’ interpretation of their daughter’s epilepsy.
(The US medical curriculum has other gaps: it doesn’t include other common causes of illness, such as urinating on a rock that looks like a tiger and failing to ejaculate completely during sexual intercourse.)I first read this book about 10 years ago.
i read this book for a class i am taking called "human behavior and the social environment." it tells the story of a Hmong family in california with a little girl who has epilepsy.
at their wit's end the doctors have the little girl removed from the home and placed into foster care.
anyone going into the medical/social work/psychology field should read this book.what could be lost in the story is the background the author gives to the story of the Hmong, a culture and people that have been continuously marginalized and persecuted in every society they have lived in.
(I now feel like lending/recommending a book proves friendship...)I didn't know anything about Hmong culture and now I do.
It would have been a good book for me to read when I was in Japan, too, because it kind of opened me up to the idea that people of other cultures can really be sooo different.
This book brings up those questions and doesn't pose solutions but does give ideas at least to open up your mind and eyes to it all.
I'm glad I read it and I hope I keep it in mind when I encounter those from other cultures and have difficulties with how I may feel about them.
An interesting story that highlights the many cultural differences between Americans and our immigrants (in this case the Hmong culture).
Lia Lee is a Hmong child with severe epilepsy and the American doctors trying to treat her clash over her entire life with her parents, who are also trying to treat her condition.
medicine and a family's right to choose between them for a minor child especially, and to a lesser degree, a prejudice towards immigrants that live off of our health care and tax dollars without contributing to the national coffers.
Then you have the people in between -- the sympathetic and aggressively advocating social worker (resented by the doctors) who came from the American point of view but aligned with the family; Lia's temporary foster family who ended up forming an apparently close relationship with her birth family; and the author herself, who unpacked this story with all its layers and recognized the profound questions it elicited, such as: What’s preferable from a doctor’s point of view – a lower standard of care with a higher probability of compliance from the family, or a higher standard of care with a lower probability of compliance from the family?When a child is involved, who's the boss -- the doctor, or the parents?Why are we Americans so intolerant of those who do not wish to assimilate into our culture?
It was especially interesting reading it right after Hitchen's God Is Not Great, because, theoretically, had there been no religion involved there wouldn't have been a real culture clash, and Lia could have grown up as an epileptic but functioning girl.
It's been over ten years since the book came out, and I would love to have some kind of update as to how the Lee family is doing - especially how Lia is doing - and if there has been any real progress made in solving culture collisions in Mercer.
4.25-ishLOVED
We all need to make further strides in understanding the Other, whether living in the dominant culture or not--Fadiman explicates the assumptions of the medical community as well as she strives (I'm sure her understanding only begins to approach the worldview of the Hmong, no matter how hard she tried) to get at traditional societies.
Yet, the Hmong asked for no more--some land of their own and the ability to go on living as they too believe.
They did not come here because of American opportunities, but because they had nowhere else to go as a result of our policies.
Others come as a result of American policies abroad.
Still, the frequency and severity of the seizures worried Foua and Nao Kao enough that they took Lia to the Merced County Medical Center Emergency Room.
Perhaps Fadiman believed that the reader needed considerable repetition to get the message (and she may be right about that), but I really didn’t’ need to be told – again – that the Lees believed a spirit was the cause of Lia’s problems, or that they believe the medicine made her worse, or that the doctors thought the Lees were difficult or poor parents.
In my work with people with developmental disabilities and epilepsy, I've seen a lot of examples of the disconnect between doctor and patient -- and that's even when both speak a common language and have a common cultural understanding of their roles.
This book tells the story of an extreme example, in which the patient's parents neither understood the doctors nor trusted them, and the medical system held a reciprocal inability to understand where the family was coming from.
In telling this one story, the author also goes into the history and culture of the Hmong people both in Laos and the US.
The life of a young woman is at stake.The book is well written, well researched, and Fadiman's heart seems to be in the right place.
That would be less of a problem if she did not want to come across as "objective." A touch of theory and a bit of world history might have been enough to take Fadiman from a book that is quite good to one that is a contribution to our understanding of others.
I recommend this book as an example of how close one can come to understanding and still miss it.
Is it terrible that I found myself sympathizing with the doctors and that the family was getting in the way of treating their childs illness?
“It is well known that involuntary migrants, no matter what pot they are thrown into, tend not to melt.” In 1981, after relocating to Merced, California, Lia Lee was born to a Hmong refugee family, from Laos..
She quickly developed severe epilepsy.
By 1988, she was living at home, brain-dead.
Of course, the book goes much deeper, as Fadiman becomes involved with this family, exploring all angles for some answers.
This is a demanding and an emotional read, but the narrative flows with strength and confidence.
It is a real eye-opener and a must read, especially for all medical students.
Lia quickly became well known at the medical center where she was taken each time she was sick; but the medical community is hugely different from the Hmong culture with a different set of beliefs and rules and expectations.
Every culture feels they know best, that their practices are the most appropriate, that everything else is sub-par.I had to read this book slowly, in small chunks, because I would find myself frustrated with the Lee family the same way the physicians were frustrated with them - I found myself saying, "If you just gave Lia the medication the way the doctors told you, she wouldn't be so sick...", and then immediately I would feel disgust at myself.
Having now finished the book, I know Lia's fate.
No spoilers here!It is important to note that this book should be read by those not only interested in anthropology and how medical practices could/should be improved, but also those wanting to learn more about the Silent War in Laos.
So many have been written about the war in Vietnam and so few about that in Laos.How do you teach doctors to feel empathy and love for their patients?
My own fears/experiences clearly augment my empathy for Lia. Nevertheless, this is a book that needs to be read by everyone.
English may have no word that does justice to the Hmong concept.How the family belief system and their desire to help their daughter results in a terrible clash with the medical doctors in the U.S. is examined by Ms. Fadiman in an exacting and compassionate way.
The doctors feel like the family is non-compliant and the family feels that they much adhere to their spiritual belief system and treat their daughter in a way much differently than recommended by her physicians.I can't imagine anyone not loving this book, not being able to relate to some experience where they felt that their belief system was not understood by another for any reason.
The Hmong are mostly from Laos, but they are in other parts of Asia as well, including in Yunnan province where we just went on China Alive!
The author explains the beliefs of the Hmong through the case of a Hmong baby girl in Merced, California, named Lia. She has severe epilepsy as a baby and her parents seek treatment though the medical community in Merced.
When they do understand, they disagree with how Lia should be treated, particularly with the huge amount of medication that the doctors prescribe for her.
Lia's parents and doctors all do their absolute best to help her and are impacted by her condition in so many ways.
"The parents of one small boy emptied his intravenous bottle refilling it with a green slime of undetermined ingredients- herbal home brew made by the Hmong parents for ages.
Hmong patients made a lot of noise in the hospital which annoyed their American counterparts.
They sometimes wanted to slaughter animals in the parking lot or hospital room of a sick relative.
One resident recalls" they would bang the crap out of some musical instrument while visiting sick relations and the American patients close-by would complain.
The customs they were expected to follow were so numerous and seemed so peculiar, rules and regulations were hard to learn, many Hmong were simply overwhelmed.
I had to read this for my Cultures & Madness class and write a book report (that I still haven't done).
I don't know how she did it but, by the time I finished the book I was all teary.
Sure, it could be that I haven't slept in days (finals) but I think it's because of how the story of this little Hmong girl touched me so deeply that it broke my heart to finish this book.
This book teaches us to be human and to keep empathy in the front of our minds and hearts whenever we encounter someone of a different culture.
My dad told me to read this book 2 years ago but I never mange to read it.
The main character in the book, Lia, also have several epilepsy which lead her to vegetable stage.
However, they tried their best for Lia. For Nao and Foua, Lia was the special one among their 16 children.The author wrote the real struggle about being an immigrants.
During my time in US, my first year was a struggle.
It was a good book that I could not let go easily and Lia will be in my heart forever.
If you like non-fiction just ignore my lack of stars.
This is a really interesting story, well told.
I learned all kinds of stuff.
It made me mad when the author wanted me to be mad and it made me sad when she wanted me to be sad.
She exposed the massive cultural divide between Hmong and Western medicine while telling a sweet and heartbreaking story.
She made me think and explore my own cultural bias.
It's not you, non-fiction-books-with-never-ending-titles, it's me.
I've learned a lot from you and I have no regrets.
We both know you're better off without me.
I even know a perfect reader for you.
