https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30013.Prelude_to_Foundation
In the realm of science fiction, Isaac Asimov’s stories have always been my woobie.  This rings especially true for his Robot and Foundation series. For me, they’re a literary panic room where I can escape the stress storms and never-ending deadlines of the day-to-day ruckus into a much simpler time where the ambient happy is always turned way up. Yes…yes…before you say it, I'll acknowledge your gripes about Asimov and even concede to some of them. Asimov wasn't as skilled a wordsmith as, say, J
THOUGHTS:Uh…It’s goodIt’s fun…It’s comforting…Flaws aside, the Foundation Trilogy was the first science fiction story I ever read and it began my love affair with the genre that continues to this day.
Thus, these stories will always hold a special place for me and I don't believe I'll ever discontinue to view them fondly.And with good reason, I think.Asimov was a master at the big idea.
Still, I was a tad bummed by the lack in this area.Oh well, I enjoyed myself and I loved that the story filled in gaps in both the Foundation series and the Robot novels.
THAT twist.
If you are critical of the use of psychohistory in the original trilogy I don’t know if Prelude to Foundation will change your mind, personally, I never minded Asimov’s concept to begin with.
It is, however, divided into hundreds of sectors with around 50 million people in each.• Asimov did not invent Psychohistory but he did popularize it.• As I mentioned earlier, if you have never read the Foundation series before, I recommend starting with the original trilogy from the 50s.
In particular, I'm not sure that I would recommend reading it prior to the other Foundation novels despite the fact that it's a prequel.It's not spoiling anything to briefly explain why this is.
In "Foundation," which is really more a shorts collection than a novel despite the fact that the stories do flow very well together, Hari Seldon is already an old man.
He is, from page one, a legend.Prelude to Foundation attempts to chronicle Hari's invention of psychohistory as a young man.
Also, and probably more frustrating for me, was how the protagonist, a supposedly brilliant mathematician (we are never privy as to why’s or how’s of his brilliance) develops psychohistory, the (in my opinion) unfortunately-named new science that is supposed to save the Galactic empire.
If something so complicated and so important is to be developed by someone so brilliant, I wanted to see the work – the sweat, the long hours poured into research and calculations over burning candle at midnight in the Mycogen sector, and I wanted to see the pieces of this powerful science falling into place with some greater tightly-wrought logic.
مجموعهٔ بنیاد نام مجموعهای ۷ جلدی از آیزاک آسیموف است که مشهورترین مجموعهٔ علمی-تخیلی خوانده شدهاست. داستان این مجموعه به ترتیب زمان انتشار پیش نمیرود، بلکه آسیموف ابتدا جلدهای سوم (بنیاد)، چهارم(بنیاد و امپراطوری) و پنجم (بنیاد دوم) را نوشت و سپس با وقفهای طولانی مدت و بر اثر اصرار خوانندگان جلدهای ششم (لبه بنیاد) و هفتم (بنیاد و زمین) را به آن افزود. پس از آن با وقفهای نسبتا طولانی جلد اول مجموعه (سرآغاز بنیاد) و در نهایت نیز اندکی پیش از مرگش جلد دوم (پیشبرد بنیاد) را نوشتهاست. ترتیب نگارش ای
داستان این مجموعه به ترتیب زمان انتشار پیش نمی‌رود، بلکه آسیموف ابتدا جلدهای سوم (بنیاد)، چهارم(بنیاد و امپراطوری) و پنجم (بنیاد دوم) را نوشت و سپس با وقفه‌ای طولانی مدت و بر اثر اصرار خوانندگان جلدهای ششم (لبه بنیاد) و هفتم (بنیاد و زمین) را به آن افزود.
پس از آن با وقفه‌ای نسبتا طولانی جلد اول مجموعه (سرآغاز بنیاد) و در نهایت نیز اندکی پیش از مرگش جلد دوم (پیشبرد بنیاد) را نوشته‌است.
آسیموف در این مجموعه امپراتوری را به تصویر کشیده که دوازده هزار سال است پا بر جاست و از بیست و پنج میلیون سیاره مسکونی تشکیل شده‌است.
سه‌گانه شامل کتابهای بنیاد، بنیاد و امپراتوری و بنیاد دوم است.
What probably happened is that Asimov realised that he could link up all the books he'd previously written (for the Foundation series and for his robot stuff) into one big series, spanning thousands of years and the entire galaxy, but still essentially linked.
Also, while he's pretty good at the political/economic stuff, he's appallingly bad at the anthropological side of things.
The definite low point of the book was the sojourn in the Mycogen sector of Trantor, during which I spent most of the time feeling both appalled and insulted.The real thing that made Foundation great was that it left so much unsaid - it treated the reader intelligently, allowing them to make their own connections, instead of explaining every minute detail of a plot development whose existence any observant person would have guessed fifty or so pages earlier.
Hari Seldon esboza las bases de la psicohistoria y queda atrapado en una competencia política por obtener sus conocimientos.- Forward the Foundation (Hacia la Fundación) .
Hari Seldon continúa el desarrollo de la psicohistoria, tanto desde su despacho en la universidad como desde el gobierno imperial.- Foundation (Fundación).
Primera novela sobre La Fundación.
Segunda novela sobre La Fundación.
Cuenta la colisión del Imperio con la Fundación y su posterior caída y muerte.- Second Foundation (Segunda Fundación) (1953).
Lo que comienza siendo una búsqueda del planeta Tierra lleva a un descubrimiento increíble.- Foundation and Earth (Fundación y Tierra) (1983).
Última novela sobre la Fundación que finaliza la serie.
Donaldson and Elmore Leonard, for different things.Where Donaldson loves to write pages and pages and pages of dialogue where characters are consistently frustrated because they need answers to questions--and Donaldson actually has them mull the precise questions over in their minds but never verbalize them--then become angry when they can't find the answers they seek, despite talking around the real question but somehow never getting to it.
Asimov, on the other hand, writes the driest, most uninspired, overly-logical, overly-factual dialogue you'll find this side of a first time author's unedited self-published book.
Finally!
After all these years!
I have finished the first book of Foundation.
What exactly took me so long, I will never know...
I really enjoyed this work, it's high-quality SF, with all the societal elements inserted in it, all the questions about humanity posed and all of the wonders of the possible future bestowed on the reader.
Brilliant for someone who loves the genre - and I most certainly am in love with science fiction, it sparks the imagination in a completely different way than any other literary endeavour.
I can't wait to read the next books.
Great book character, annoying little shit.
Was there anything more exciting in life than seeking answers?"(Note: As with other reviews in this series, spoilers to follow.)After five novels spanning as many centuries, one might have supposed Asimov's stepwise tinkering with his Foundation universe had come to an end.
Following a close encounter in which Seldon's reckless actions nearly get him killed, Hummin relocates Seldon and Dors to Mycogen Sector, an underground society on Trantor proper that is believed to possess some of the oldest records in the Galaxy.
Raych, Dors and Seldon all end up in Wye—a sector at Trantor's south pole—whose mayor (Rashelle) has been biding her time as she plots the usurpation of Emperor Cleon's throne.
I did the unthinkable when it comes to reading the Foundation series and started with Prelude (I recently also finished Forward the Foundation and have started reading Foundation).
The twists towards the end were exciting and while I partly expected one of them, it still didn't take away from the "oh my goodness" nature of the moment.A small drawback: I felt like the Seldon character (the protagonist) lacked personality.
That's just a personal quibble though, and I would still wholeheartedly recommend this book.As far as starting the series with Prelude is concerned, only time will tell if I end up feeling robbed by the time I finish the original series.
I'm working on reading the Foundation-related books in internal chronological order.
I've worked through the Robots and Empire books, and now I'm moving on to the Foundation books.
I imagine that somebody who's read Foundation would have a totally different reaction.
For me, it was my first exposure to psychohistory, so it worked to see what I guess you could call the birth of the idea.
Ok, sure, they're interesting, but not enough to keep the book moving.
Honestly, I wasn't expecting as much out of this book as I had gotten out of some of the other connected books.

Asimov ha recomendado leer su saga en orden cronológico, pero "yo soy rebelde porque los libros me han hecho así"...
jaaaa yo recomendaría leer definitivamente primero la Trilogía aaaantes de leer la precuela.
El motivo es que siento que apreciarás mejor algunas referencias que se verán realidad en la Trilogía.
Bueno es solo una impresión de alguien que recién se adentra al mundo de Asimov XD.
Durante varias partes de la novela, sentí que las acciones de los personajes carecían de sentido...
Contiene también referencias a la saga de los robots (Que aún no he leído), pero que me ha hecho querer leerlo.
دنیای «بنیاد» آسیموف شباهت زیادی به دنیای «تلماسه» فرانک هربرت دارد ، حتی شیوه آغاز هر فصل و نقل قول از دایره المعارف تخیلی کهکشانی و در مقابلش در کناب تلماسه نقل قول از کتابهای پرنسس«آیرولان» ، حتی بین جهاد «باتلری» و نابودی روبوتها توسط انسان در کتاب بنیاد هم شباهتهای زیادیست ، همچنین شباهت ادویه اسپایس به طعم و چاشنی های سیاره «ترانتور» ، گمان می کنم ایزاک آسیموف نیم نگاهی به آثار فرانک هربرت داشته است البته با حفظ ویژگی های روایت خودش از جهان آینده .متاسفانه ادبیات علمی و تخیلی در هیچ کجای ج
دنیای «بنیاد» آسیموف شباهت زیادی به دنیای «تل‌ماسه» فرانک هربرت دارد ، حتی شیوه آغاز هر فصل و نقل قو
Some day I'm going to read the novels of Asimov's future history in story order...1 The End of Eternity (stand-alone) 19552 I, Robot (short stories) 19503 The Caves of Steel (Robot) 19544 The Naked Sun (Robot) 19575 The Robots of Dawn (Robot) 19836 Robots and Empire (Robot) 19857 The Stars, Like Dust (Empire) 19518 The Currents of Space (Empire) 19529 Pebble In The Sky (Empire) 195010 Prelude to Foundation (Foundation Prequel) 198811 Forward the Foundation (Foundation Prequel) 199112 Foundation
Some day I'm going to read the novels of Asimov's future history in story order...1 The End of Eternity (stand-alone) 19552 I, Robot (short stories) 19503 The Caves of Steel (Robot) 19544 The Naked Sun	(Robot) 19575 The Robots of Dawn (Robot) 19836 Robots and Empire (Robot) 19857 The Stars, Like Dust (Empire) 19518 The Currents of Space	(Empire) 19529 Pebble In The Sky (Empire) 195010 Prelude to Foundation (Foundation Prequel) 198811 Forward the Foundation (Foundation Prequel) 199112 Foundation (Foundation) 195113 Foundation and Empire (Foundation) 195214 Second Foundation (Foundation) 195315 Foundation's Edge (Foundation Sequel) 198216 Foundation and Earth	)Foundation Sequel) 1986Meanwhile though, I've already read the robot, empire, and foundation books, so am aware enough to understand the place of this novel as a bridge between the three originally unrelated sub-series.

بالاخره یک کتاب از آسیموف رو تموم کردم!یادمه اولین باری هم که کتابِ ادبیات گمانه‌زن خوندم، کتابِ آسیموف بود که چون چهارم دبستان بودم گذاشتمش کنار و برگشتم سرِ به من بگو چراها و در جهان ریاضیات و نجوم و تاریخ و بدن انسان و فیزیک و اینا، این کتاب بزرگایی که پر از عکس بود.
فک کنم سه تا قانون روباتیکِ آسیموف هم توی این کتاب برای اولین بار اومده و خب طبیعیه که خیلی ذوق زده شدم از خوندنش.احتمالاً همه بنیادها رو بخونم.
نمی‌دونم ایراد به کتاب وارده یا به خاطرِ این بوده که زمانی که آسیموف این رو می‌نوشته، نمی‌شده بیشتر از این توضیح داد، اما یه جاهایی برام شیوه عملکرد جهان‌ها و در کُل خودِ روان-تاریخ گنگ بود
Tek kelime yazıp gidiyorum : OHA!
Prelude to Foundation, written toward the end of Asimov's life, is a prequel that tells Hari's back-story.It's a Hollywood movie-like adventure that has Hari on the run from the Galactic Emperor who wants to use Hari's promising psychohistorical ideas to prop-up his troubled regime through selective prediction (stick with the Emperor and everything will go great!) Hari's flight takes him all over the Capital world of Trantor which houses a universe worth of unique societies.
The story moves smoothly, the character are reasonably well-drawn and there's even a clever twist or two (view spoiler)[This novel is the only one I know of that combines Asimov's two most notable themes; robots are said to have been lost to humanity long ago, but perhaps there are still a few around.
Contrary to what seems to be the popular consensus, I actually thoroughly enjoyed this book for what it was.
I first read these books out of order.
I had never read the robot books, prelude/forward/empire novels.
So I have been doing this.Having already read the original trilogy and two sequels (as well as The Complete Robot, 4 robot novels, 3 empire novels...
), I thoroughly enjoyed Prelude to Foundation.
Furthermore, I enjoyed how this book showed that the building blocks to any great revolution do not rest solely on the mind of one individual.
no se porque nunca fui de tomar uno y ponerme a leerlos, ya quiero terminarlos TODOS!Leí primero el libro de la Fundación y me pareció súper interesante toda la idea de Hari Seldon y la Psicohistoria, pero en vez de ir en orden cronológico de publicación, (a sugerencia de mi papa) inicie a leer este libro, Preludio a la Fundación, donde inicia la historia de Hari Seldon quien en el futuro sería referido casi como una deidad, pero aquí solo es Hari, un matemático con una ambiciosa y muy codiciada idea...Aunque no es un libro de mucha acción, es un libro muy emocionante donde las "peleas" son sumamente intelectuales..En fin, me gusta muchísimo la ciencia ficción y este señor es el PADRE de este genero y con muchísima razón...
su manera de visualizar mundos lejanos y distintos, y hacernos verlos como si fuera algo natural es impresionante!Ya quiero seguir con el siguiente y siguiente, así como los de la serie de los robots...
Even though written later than the original books in the Foundation series, I decided to read it first because it is in chronological order of the story.
I will never know whether or not this was the right thing to do and I can see from other readers' comments that many Asimov fans found this book to be disappointing.
So in a way it is good that I read this Foundation book first because things will get even better!
It's probably a 3-1/2 star, but I gave it four because it definitely hooked me to want to read the rest of the series.
Finito il sesto dei 7 tasselli del ciclo della Fondazione e sempre più mi convinco che Asimov sia la fantascienza.
Insieme ad un altro maestro del genere, Philip K.
Dick, unico che secondo me può competere con la maestosità letteraria di Asimov (ovviamente è una mia opinione ristretta a ciò che ho letto finora)."Trantor...
Capitale del Primo Impero Galattico...
Sotto Cleon I, conobbe il suo .
Stando alle apparenze, era allora all'apice...
La popolazione ammontava a 40 miliardi di abitanti...
chi viveva su Trantor indubbiamente era ancora convinto che quello fosse il leggendario Mondo Eterno e non si aspettava che un giorno...
Začiatky Hariho Seldona, trošku pomalé, onanujúce nad vlastnou chytrosťou, ale so super zvratom.
First Asimov book for me.
I loved the dynamics and the different cultures exploration.
I couldn't leave the book from the beginning until the end.
!!!SPOILERS!!!On the other side, I felt like I missed thoughts and reasoning while Hari was trying to find ways to create psychohistory- it just felt flat the way that the solution came to him, we weren't part of the process of thinking.
And something I especially didn't like: all the physical remarks about women.
The introduction of every woman starts with sexualized physical description 'full lips, slim body...'.
And the love story takes away from the book in my opinion.
:D At the same time these different cultures allow Harry and Dors to compare their own to them which gives the book scope for moral debate which it does brilliantly showing us and our characters some insights into which way society on the Imperial World could go as well as the wider humanity!
:D) and this gives the booka feel of almost documentary style to many of the events that allows the book to take another perspective on the events that are happening to Dors and Harry as the story progresses giving the tone of events an epic quality you can almost imagine the ring of pontentious events with every action that they take and the book does this brilliantly emphasising events at every juncture!
Prelude to Foundation is the first prequel to the classic Sci-Fi saga, Foundation, written by Isaac Asimov.This book starts before all the science that explains the Universe of the original Trilogy is fully developed.We are drawn into a world where knowledge is on a constant state of decay, as the Empire itself.After thousands of years, the Empire is so big and has extended so much, that several problems started to arise.
I read this when I was about 13 or 14 and loved it.
Asimov was such a genius, writing in the 1940's with a prophetic political and technological imagination.
(Granted, this was written in the 1980's as a prequel to the books written in the 40's).
He writes the dialogue with a clinical edge that really makes you feel you're hearing people from an entirely different society speaking.
When I read this book at 13 I don't think I was aware that it would be part of my inspiration to be a sociologist or would turn me into a hard core sci-fi freak!
'Prelude to Foundation' by Isaac Asimov is an excellent prequel to Foundation – whereas that book was more like a collection of three stories, this one is a straightforward romp of a novel!Read my full review on my blog:http://www.50ayear.com/2016/03/25/11-...
