https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/112074.Checkmate
Understandably so, seeing as most of the people he cared deeply about had been removed from the board of these deadly chess games with human pawns we have witnessed in five sprawling volumes.
Dunnett has been merciless with her main character, foiling one ambitious plan after another, removing everybody he trusted from his anturage, practically blackmailing Lymond into acting like a puppett (a pawn at last) in a game of kings.
The best epitaph I could come up with is another quote from the book describing Francis Crawford of Lymond, the heroic figure around whom everything else revolves: No one, once they met him, could remain the same.
Not a new theme; it’s been there since the first book, when Lymond loses the first of his men in service and the first of his women.
There are so many good friends fallen and dear characters missing, unfairness left unpunished, mistakes that can’t be righted but accepted, needless sacrifices that could’ve been avoided, and Francis Crawford of Lymond and Sevigny still carries the wounds on his body, and his mind will need adjusting after over fifteen years of reckless adventures.
*tears, tears* The best historical fiction series I read. Beautiful, beautiful. Don't mind my sobs. I am happy. My heart is full. *sob, sob*
I promise you, if you accept the challenge, and wade into the depths of 16th century Europe with Lymond, his brother Richard, his mother Sybilla, his fellow armsmen, his women, and finally his love - you will not be disappointed.
I join the ranks of people who say, 'Oh, I love these books,' and sigh with poignant regret that they are now read.I will be rereading them, that is without doubt.
I feel sorry for the book that I'll be reading next because nothing will be as rich and rewarding as what I've just experienced.I'm buying the companion book so that I can reread all six books and hopefully understand all the references and languages that were so equivocal to my uneducated mind.Favorite lines:"You might, without my crediting it, fall deeply in love and forever, with some warped hunchback whelped in the gutter.
"Very seldom," he said."Or artless?
"Is that why you keep recoiling as if I was a line of armed calvary?"He was not smiling.
He said, "I beg your pardon.
A wonderfully satisfying conclusion to an extremely convoluted and well plotted historical series The main character Francis Lymond was a tortured soul, an enigma but who lived by his own code of honour.
In fact the whole cast of characters whether heroes or villains were so well drawn.One had to wonder after following Francis Lymond through all of his trials and political intrigue and across so many continents if he would ever find peace or the answers that he sought.
In this final installment all is revealed and makes for very satisfying if exhausting reading.In summation of the final installment, the series...fabulous,....absolutely fabulous.
There is, I think, a line in one of Jane Austen's pieces of juvenilia which reads something like:It was too pathetic for the feelings of Sophia and myself—we fainted alternately upon a sofa.Yeah, that about sums it up.
Many characters are emotionally manipulated but none more than Philippa who receives both physical and mental trauma and Lymond who has been paying the price for his identity issues throughout the whole series.
I think it's safe to say that Lymond will remain one of my favourite characters of all time, warts and all.An epic series that I'll re-read after a healthy distance to discover clear answers to some questions that evade me for now, especially those concerning parental ambiguity that destroyed me at the end of Pawn in Frankincense and Checkmate.
So instead I'll just plot summarize a bit: This book finds Lymond back in France after the events of book five.
I missed your stupidity Jerrott!) Marthe!
In this last book Phillipa continues delving into the mystery of Lymond's birth until the whole thing unravels and blows up in their faces.
As with all the books, there are a number of TERRIBLE THINGS that happen.
I'll miss the Crawfords and Phillipa and everyone.
I'll miss Francis Crawford of Lymond, who has become possibly my favorite fictional character.
Checkmate is a rare book, a unique book. It's the only romance novel (come on, don't deny it. You know it's at heart a romance novel!) that has thousands of pages of character development in the form of the previous 5 books in the series. So the feels when everything comes together in Checkmate...The feels...
Early in this book, Lymond is cornered in the streets of Lyon by various people intent on murdering him.
With his companion Philippa Somerville he embarks on a high-speed chase through the streets and over the rooftops, involving extreme physical danger, courage, agility and a healthy measure of quick-witted verbal assaults on his attackers.It's a throwback to a similar episode in "Queens' Play", but it's also a fair metaphor for the whole Lymond series.
Oh, I LOVE this series! And also hate it so much. I never ever finish one of these books without coming away completely wrung out and gasping for air... In the best possible way. So of course they must be read over and over again. Each time I find new things; or find I've forgotten things, so that events continue to strike me like a smack in the head... In the best possible way. :)
(I think we've all agreed that Pawn was.) However, to devotees of the books it will seem like the best, because it's the one with the (relatively) Happy Ending.
It doesn't matter because it's Dunnett, and because, if you've made it this far, you're already so in love with the characters that you're willing to sacrifice anything in order to see them happy.
Dunnett is at her best when she has Gabriel to throw Lymond up against.
When Lymond is just struggling with Gabriel's shadow, the plot is less knife-like.
This is a great ending, and Dunnett's gift to her loyal readers.
Another thing that Dunnett crafts extremely well are her characters, and I would like to call attention specifically to two sides of that -- her female characters are strong and well developed, despite being set in a time period where it would be all too easy to denigrate them to the background, and she writes about her supporting characters in a way that makes you care about their fates.
Dunnett maintains an iron discipline and focus on her plot and her end-goals, which Mr. Martin especially in AFFC has seemed to wander from.
Some other reviewers have complained about the melodramatic nature of this episode, but in truth I think the whole series is high melodrama, (in the first chapter of the first book, for goodness sake, there was a drunk pig and Lymond sets fire to his mother).
Philippa comes to France to serve as lady in waiting to the young Mary Queen of Scotts, and continues her investigation into who actually parented Lymond and Marthe, as Lymond starts his own separate inquiry into his parentage.
The story unfolds amidst the pageantry of the French Court as it prepares for the wedding of Queen Mary to the Dauphin of France, and Philippa and Lymond struggle to deny the love they have come to feel for each other.
The Lymond Chronicles books are quite possibly my all-time favorite books, or at least as an adult.
Along the way, he tangles with epic figures, both real and fictitious while confronting the darker side of both his own and his family's history.One warning: the first two books of the series are a bit slow in comparison to the remaining four, but it is definitely worth the time to get through them.
I also recommend getting a copy of Elspeth Morrison's The Dorothy Dunnett Companion, which annotates the myriad historic and literary references that are woven throughout the books.
The final book of the Lymond Chronicles, by far DD's greatest book, and the best book I have ever read.This is Lymond and Phillipa's love story.
All that, a war in France, the marriage of a spoiled Scottish princess, and Nostradamus.Phillipa is unbelievable - a woman of strength and ingenuity.
A woman willing to sacrifice her pride, her heart, her self so totally that I started to feel uncomfortable.
And yet I loved her for it.Lymond is...
Lymond.
Books don't come better than this one.
This book works because of the previous five)
I read Pawn in Frankincense, The Ringed Castle, and Checkmate back to back, and by the time I got to Checkmate, I was reading all hours of the day and night, completely ignoring work, because I simply had to know how this amazing series would resolve.
From PiF through to the last line of Checkmate, Dorothy Dunnett wrapped her writer's fist around my stomach, and at times the level of sacrifice and suffering asked of the characters had me quite depressed.
Dorothy Dunnett has done something really amazing with her books and if she didn't totally succeed on all counts, well, she deserves points for at least attempting what most writers wouldn't put the time and effort into doing.
Reading her books is the next best thing to riding a time machine back to the 16th century.
Everything from what the characters are reading, to how they dress, to how they relate to one another socially is spot on.
With Dorothy Dunnett, you know there won't be any weird period anachronisms - like characters riding in a carriage centuries before carriages were invented.
The Lymond Chronicles are the most intricately plotted novels I have read by any author, ever.
Lymond is as enigmatic and infuriating as a hero can come.
The villains aren't just cardboard bad guys, they are really human and they are even scarier because of that.I really don't remember the individual books well enough to say that this one deserves five stars and that one deserves four.
Unfortunately, her books didn't get made into movies or TV series, which seems to be required for an author to be a "success" these days.
But Dunnett definitely deserves to be remembered.
When I finished reading "Checkmate" I had a hard time letting go of these complicated, intense and very real characters.Lymond did all that he could to get back to Russia and somehow pick up the pieces of his shattered dream and live his life there.
With the interference of those who wanted to salvage what was left of his soul and humanity, they did all that was possible to keep him from Russia.
In fact, I have started a re-read because of the depth of story line and characters, I will see what I missed the first time around!
Number : 14Read 8/30/06-2/11/07, 2/16-2/20/05Checkmate finishes the amazing tale of Francis Crawfordof Lymond in breath-taking, stunning and wonderous fashion.The book is set in France and almost anything else I couldpossibly say plot-wise would be a spoiler.
Instead, I'll just rave and say that in a series of books where each one rated a 10, this one was perhaps the best.
Lymond is the most fascinating of characters, surrounded by other intricately drawn characters.
I know there's vast amounts of nuance I've missed.
It's sad to finish the series but at least I know I can comeback to this magnificient world.
So I was in a strange position of knowing the Big Events, but having forgotten all the smaller details that embroidered those big events, and led up to them and led away from them, neither wholly new to me nor wholly known, which might be why I was alternately engrossed and frustrated by the book.I loved so many things about it, including the amazing scene where Lymond tells Philippa that he loves her, and later, that he cannot lie about that one good thing; I also loved (in a sobbing into my kerchief way) the moment when he is dying and remembers all his dead, last of all the little boy he could not save in Istanbul.What I didn't love were Richard, once again acting like an ass to Lymond, and imputing horrible, venal motives to his brother after, time and time again, having it shoved in his face that Lymond wasn't the selfish hedonist he appeared to be (and man, what is with Richard's prurient interest in Lymond's sex life?
Well, almost, I did sleep fitfully for 3 hours.Thank God that:1) Warning, this is a HUGE SPOILER: (view spoiler)[ Francis and Philippa get to be together FULLY!
I think I'd still be crying if he had died, sooo close to having that joyous reunion with Philippa.
Although I would run out right now and read the next one if it magically appeared, I am quite relieved that I don't have that option.
It was such an amazing ride and I will be re-reading these.3) there are some discussion threads online for this series; so much to process and dissect!
When I read it, I couldn't put a finger on what exactly about Marthe's ending - besides the obvious - made my mouth shrivel like a prune, but now I think I've got it.
And then the reader puts down the book, blows out a breath that ruffles the bangs on her forehead, picks the book back up, and blithely forgets ALL ABOUT MARTHE when she returns to reading roughly twenty pages of Philippa and Lymond sexing in their blessed matrimonial bed.As another review sniped, seeing a friend die horribly and graphically in front of you is a surefire way to make any rape victim horny again, I can tell you that.
I am completely exhausted after reading all six books of the Lymond Chronicles.
In this volume, Lymond is at the height of his military career in France, and at the point of despair of salvaging his mysterious heritage and his complicated personal life.
The action is swift and compelling, with descriptive details of the French countryside, her cities, dazzling court scenes, a royal wedding, military battles and excursions, treason, attempts at murder, the devotion of Lymond's comrades to their commander.
I think it might help now to read the Dunnett Companion to gain some of the author's mindset on these complicated plots, before starting again to read this series, All six books beg to be re-read.
This book took me forever to read - months and months and month.
Because, though I've read it multiple times before and knew how it ended, I knew what I had to get through and my anxiety levels just couldn't stay that high for long.
I've probably said it in every review I've written for her, but Dorothy Dunnett is a genius and the satisfaction in reading her stories cannot be overstated.
This book lived up to all of the promise of the Lymond chronicles.
This book, I think, managed to combine compelling plots, suspense and tension with considerable growth of already very complex characters, beautiful prose and a hopeful ending.
The finer and deeper points are brought out of many of the characters - Lymond and Philippa, but also Marthe, Jerott, Sybilla and even poor Austin - without falling into the easy trap of assigning each to "good" or "evil".
This is the book of the series that may most benefit from re-reading and discussion.
What did Marthe really want?
Francis Crawford of Lymond is perhaps one of the most seductive, unreal (and I actually mean totally implausable), brilliant 'hero' I have perhaps ever read.
I'm not sure I can imagine how much research Mrs. Dunnett had to put into writing this series but I felt that I had ridden headlong through 16th century Europe and the Ottoman empire and come out battle scarred, terrified and absolutely raving.
The cast of characters was immense but the true story is the history and the societies Crawford drags us through.
This series dominated a huge chunk of my life and has left its mark.
