https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/350271.Axel_s_Castle
Edmund Wilson is unique for me among early 20th century critics in that he sounds almost exactly up-to-date, and I don't think opinions of Valery or Eliot or Proust have really changed all that much since he wrote this critical assessment.
Wilson's own writing is exacting without being fussy, and contemporary without being modish.The exciting thing about this book is seeing Proust and Joyce and Yeats before there was a unified critical opinion as to their value.
Anyway, Wilson prefers the fiery revolutionary Yeats, while finding his theories on history and his metaphysics to be rotten caricatures.It is striking and rare to read someone with such nominal opinions of major early 20th-century writers express them in a voice that's so familiar yet inventive.
Somewhere in the previous Wilson I recently read, the critic states that one of his favorite times in life is when he's able to describe a book to someone unfamiliar with such.
I truly wish I had read this book 30 years ago.
It was probably the number of poets within which discouraged me at that time.
Wilson cites the advent of Symbolism as the movement which brought to the fore Joyce, Proust and Stein.
The effect of the Great War also appears nebulous in this reasoning.
There was also a great deal of plot description.
This effect of indefiniteness was produced not merely by the confusion… between the imaginary… and the real [as in Nerval]; but also by means of a further confusion between the perceptions of the different senses.”	Comme de longs échos qui de loin se confondent…	Les parfums, les couleurs et les sons se respondent (Baudelaire)One of the best expressions of Symbolism turns out to be Paul Valéry, who did not write much, but who dedicated himself (ultimately through his notebooks) to the “study of oneself for its own sake, the comprehension of that attention itself and the desire to trace clearly for oneself the nature of one’s own existence”.
The Qabalistic Palimpsest of Axel’s CastleSylvia Plath’s boyfriend, Gordon Lameyer, gave Plath the book Axel’s Castle: A Study in the Imaginative Literature of 1870-1930, by Edmund Wilson, to read while recovering at McLean after her attempted suicide in 1953.
Here, I’ll review the chapters that I know interested Plath: Yeats, Eliot, and Joyce, as well as the introduction and conclusion.In Chapter One, Symbolism, Wilson discusses how this school of literature begins with Romanticism, where the writer becomes a part of the story.
Wilson is also said to be one of the first to review Joyce’s ‘Ulysses.’ Joyce was 13 years his elder.The essays here are often pleasurably lucid, though at times perhaps a bit too deferential, and best when hewing closest to biography and text, as opposed to the grander literary-historical theorizing prominent in the concluding chapter.
A lot of the connections that Wilson draws seem somewhat obvious now, but I have to think that this was truly revolutionary criticism at the time it was written. The tie between the narrative of the author's life and their conceptions, as well as between symbolism and everything that followed is now Lit 101, but it's still interesting to revisit this idea in its earliest incubation, especially with as charming a guide as Edmund Wilson. It doesn't compare to To the Finland Station, but it's still worth your while.
An excellent, if dated, introduction to many of the century's greatest writers, including G. Stein, Joyce and Proust.
I am, virtually without qualification, a huge fan of Edmund Wilson’s essays, if less so of his fiction. While perhaps not at the level of a Macaulay, a Montaigne, a Johnson, a Benjamin, an Emerson, or even an H. L. Mencken, Wilson has written both eloquently and persuasively on a variety of topics.  The Triple Thinkers  and  To the Finland Station  come immediately and memorably to mind, even though I read both some thirty years ago.I can’t express anything like the same kudos for  Axel’s Castle
Wilson covers the gamut of interesting personalities and writers (Yeats; Valéry; Eliot; Proust; Joyce; Stein; and Rimbaud – not to mention the Symbolist Movement in general) – but either I lack the necessary enthusiasm for this Movement and these writers or Wilson has simply failed to convince me they’re worth reading.God knows, Proust and Joyce both have their share of devotees.
I’ve never read Proust.
I’ve never even attempted 
And yes, I’ve read much of the poetry of Yeats and T.
But would I feel the same degree of enthusiasm either for Gertrude Stein or for Paul Valéry?
It is so refreshing to read literary criticism where the writing is concise and to the point.
More than one literary criticism, see Eugen Weber’s work on France: Fin de Siècle, has suffered from this overblown technique of proving your educational worth by talking down to the reader.
I realize that I myself was guilty of this technique when I was writing critical papers in graduate school.
Another issue I have with some contemporary criticism goes like this: “What the author said was…..
My hat is off to Edmund Wilson for the effort and result that went into this work.
Thus Wilson finds Gertrude Stein to be "a literary personality of unmistakable originality and distinction" who possesses a "masterly grasp of...human personalities," but at the same time he finds much of her writing "boring," repetitive, or "unintelligible," so that "the reader is all too soon in a state, not to follow the slow becoming of life, but simply to fall asleep." He similarly praises the creative genius of Joyce and the intricate layers of Ulysses but points out there are too many; Joyce "elaborated Ulysses too much" and ultimately "a hundred and sixty-one more or less deliberately tedious pages are too heavy a dead weight for even the brilliant flights" of the rest.
A very important critical commentary on the modernist movement written just after the height of modernist dominance in 1931, this is a book that will help you not to say a bunch of dumb things about the writers discussed.
This book has great things to say about Yeats, Eliot, Joyce and others: it might finally get me to read Proust, for instance, though I've already resigned myself to never being able to pronounce his name in literate society.
I also need to report that even the sympathetic criticism of a careful enthusiast like Wilson makes me even less likely to try to read Gertrude Stein seriously.
What's that, Dr. Williams?
Unkind, Dr. Williams.
I first read it in the late seventies, as part of my "alien minds" project--to try to see through the eyes of minds utterly unlike mine, but with one sharing point (after I made an attempt with the Marquis de Sade, and was just repulsed, but I do not like horror).
Yet they were trying experiments, which I wanted to understand, even if I couldn't appreciate the effect.Yeats I did come to value in later years; what Wilson gave me was a key to understanding, and appreciating, James Joyce.
Axel's Castle: A Study in the Imaginative Literature of 1870-1930 is a 1931 book of literary criticism by Edmund Wilson on the Symbolist movement in literature. It includes a brief overview of the movement's origins and chapters on W. B. Yeats, Paul Valéry, T. S. Eliot, Marcel Proust, James Joyce, and Gertrude Stein. The book's title refers to Axël, a prose poem by Auguste Villiers de l'Isle-Adam which is discussed along with the works of Arthur Rimbaud in the concluding chapter. Axel's Castle, truly should be considered one of the formative critical texts of American literary criticism.
Oh well, this kind of stuff is way too smart for a country boy like myself. I got something from the chapters on Eliot and Joyce, very little from the chapter on Yeats, and the whole argument about the importance of Symbolism as a unifying influence on the whole gang sailed right over my head. Even Mary Gordon's enthusiastic introduction didn't help.Giltinan reaches the limitations of his frazzled intellect and beats his wings in frustration, pawing at the ground and snorting. (yes, I'm Pegasus, what did you think?)
Hard to imagine so lucid and commonsensical a critical stance brought to bear on difficult art with so little middlebrow condescension. Wilson accepts the challenging rationales of the modernist masters, yet calls them out -- and convincingly so -- when their inscrutability lacks aesthetic justification.
This book is a classic of literary criticism written more than 85 years ago.
The final section of that chapter offers a cautious, but informed prognosis of the future of literature in which Wilson hopes for a synthesis of Symbolism with the movement it rebelled against, Naturalism.
Only in the case of Stein does the negative outweigh the positive, but Wilson nevertheless considers her, too, a significant writer.I’m sure I consulted this many years ago for a paper for a lit course, which always made me think, when I saw it sitting on my shelf, I had read it.
dated in some respects, and it gives Stein relatively short space, but useful and interesting in others - particularly Proust and Joyce’s “Ulysses”
In this 1931 work, Wilson focuses on the Symbolist movement in literature, particularly the works of Yeats, Valéry, Eliot, Proust, Joyce, and Gertrude Stein.
Wilson's writing is crystalline clear (though his use of huge block quotes is sometimes awkward), and it's refreshing to read a contemporary's thoughts on Yeats, Proust, Joyce and Eliot.
Because I am reading Remembance of Things Past now, I particularly enjoyed the chapter on Proust, and found insights on the structure which blew me away.
"Axel's Castle" provides a good introduction to modern literature and its sources in the Symbolist movement.
It is clear that Wilson views Joyce and Proust as the two most significant modern writers, and the two chapters dealing with them are accordingly the most insightful of the book (and worth the price of the entire volume).
If you are at all interested in any of these authors or the Symbolist movement, this book is essential as Wilson is one of the foremost literary critics of the century, and this is perhaps his most representative and greatest work.
Published in 1931, Wilson takes a look at some of his writer contemporaries (Yeats, T.S. Eliot, Valery, Stein, Proust, and Joyce) and draws out how their works uses Symbolist theories. It is a good introduction to these writers and the techniques they employ. Since I am also quite interested in the Symbolists, I found some enlightening perspectives, such as how the Symbolists differ from the Romantics and bridge over to the Modernists, how the Symbolists turn away from the outside world to focus on the subjective and internal world. Here's a good link for a review contemporaneous to the book:http://www.nytimes.com/books/97/11/23...
Lots to muse over in this work of literary criticism.
Is French Symbolism in some measure the French equivalent of the poetic practices of Shakespeare and the Metaphysical Poets?
Bet that never occurred to you.
The book begins with an introductory essay laying out an argument for what precisely Symbolism is and why it occurred and then goes on the explore its' influence on Valery, Proust, Joyce, Yeats, Eliot and Stein.
Wilson is a very good writer and the book is not remotely dry.
I've read it several times over the years and get more out of it with each reading.
Classic contemporary survey of high modernism as seen through the prism of Yeats, Valery, Eliot, Joyce, Proust, Stein. Sees modernism as fusion of symbolism and naturalism. Limited and slightly dated, but interesting and well written accounts of individual authors, particularly Joyce. Also astute criticism of symbolism's more solipsistic tendencies, and a hilarious diss of Valery's prose (amidst more general praise).
Clear and concise overview of "symbolist" literature, including Yeats, Valery, T.S. Eliot, Proust, Joyce, Gertrude Stein, and Rimbaud. I've read "Ulysses" and "In Search of Lost Time," and really don't expect to do that more than once, and Wilson gives a very clear overall picture of both works.
I still can't say I understand the French "Symbolist" movement much better, but Wilson does an excellent job of deepening one's appreciation for Proust's "Remembrance of Things Past." [I read this primarily for the connection with Debussy].
Really wonderful display of criticism. Lucid; succinct; well-rounded. All the more hard to fathom how Roger Ebert can dare to cite this intellectual as a 'mentor'.
this is everything it's hyped to be.
Prophetic. If you care about this sort of thing, I imagine you'll find something to chew on if not admire.
Fantastically insightful look into six modernists.
I need to re-read this. I remember it from undergrad days in the early 70's.
