https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6348045-halt-s-peril
Unfortunately, there really isn't anything in Halt's Peril to excite particular interest in a positive or negative way.It is a good installment, and fairly suspensful, though its ending is easy to guess.
Mr. Flanagan isn't an Author who allows permanent evil to befall main characters.
I am also pleased to report that Flanagan does not try to tackle any battles, but a few minor skirmishes.
He can do that, and I must admit that his avoidance of trying to write a real battle improves the books considerably.Still, I wish he wasn't writing any more books in the Ranger's Apprentice series.
Will, Horace, and Halt travel from Hibernia to Picta to Araluen, chasing down a band of murderous wolves in sheep's clothing.
They must destroy this treacherous cult once and for all, but contending with ice-cold assassins (Sicilian-style) nearly costs them everything, as the title suggests.
(Chillingly vivid portrayals of Genovesan assassins at work).Another fast-paced and somewhat heartwarming tale of courage, strategy, and friendship.
It was nice to see some old friends from a few prior books — great secondary characters.
I felt the scenes where Halt was in deadly peril were detailed and credible.
I am so disappointed only by the fact that I only have 1 book left + the lost stories.
In this edition Halt, Will & Horace pick up the chase that was left off in the previous book.
And as halt gets caught into a battle for life and death, Will goes and brings back an old friend from books 5 & 6 Malcolm.
Horace has gone from a simply faithful side kick, to a fearsome partner and offers many humerous antecdotes to give some levity to the story.My only disappointment again is that it seems as with all good things this series to must someday end!
Very good.
As always, this is Ranger's Apprentice. Love it. :)
I really did like this book.
I feel as though the book never truly adds anything new to the table, plot wise.
I have also seen reviews bashing the book for just that.
However this wasn't a book intended to add anything new.
Halt's Peril wasn't great at adding new elements into the mix of Ranger's Apprentice, but it stirs the pot of characters a little.
All-in-all I'd say it is great at tying up the loose ends caused by previous books and hinting at things yet to come.
I hope book 10 is as good as this one.
3,5*
The middle of this book dragged on a lot, because you already expects how it will end, but it does not happen and the ending felt too easy. I still really liked the relationships between the characters. Horace and Will are definitely friendship goals!
If I could give this no stars and have it count as a reading, I would.I fell in love with the Ranger's Apprentice series hard in middle school.
So I did as I do with any series I loved the first book of, and checked out as many as the library would lend me.
To make a long story short, I didn't sleep much Friday or Saturday night, just read, and I fell in love.
I wished the series would stop, wished for John Flanagan to end this misery.He didn't.
Halt's Peril came out around a month after I read book one.
I never want the stories to end.That being said, I didn't think Halt's Peril was the best book of the series so far.
I enjoyed seeing the story of the last book get wrapped up, but I especially loved that it wasn't easy.
But I enjoyed that we got to see Halt fail a little bit.
They got hurt, they got sick, and they had to change their plans numerous times.Because of this though, we got a lot more character development rather then action.
I love these three characters - Halt, Will and Horace - so very much.
If Halt had died, I would cry myself to sleep overnight.
I simply cannot even.Update: Page 201 features a meaningful bro hugAnd I still cannot even.
I'm closing in on the end of the series … or at least the so far published books.This one I enjoyed a bit more again than the last books. The character interactions were more fun and there wasn't any problematic depiction of different people (that's always a relief).I still think Flanagan doesn't write female characters well (or at all in this book) and he sucks at romantic relationships since I'm still not sure where they all came from. But well. This one was really quick and mostly fun without anything to annoy me too much.
I'm not the type of person who cries over books or characters dying. The first time I read this, I cried. This time, I was still close to tears. I think that said, is enough.
Vairs kaut kā nešķiet tik aizrautīgi. Varbūt tāpēc ka šī jau ir 9. grāmata sērijā un viss sāk palikt nedaudz apnicīgi, tie paši varoņi, līdzīgas situācijas, utt.
There are also a variety of countries and cultures which makes it more interesting because you don’t see the mix of social structure usually in old-fashioned type books.After the first book, the rest of the series pretty much develops the social structure, the characters and their relationships, and all as they go on adventures to support good and defeat evil!
Because each book does refer back to events in previous books, the skip in timeline makes it a bit weird.
The bantering between Halt, Horace, and Will was great, and I loved the action sequences, but the plot seemed a little disjointed.
(I think this is because it was that book that made me realize how much I loved the series since I was so worried and heart-sick over Will!)I also like the realization that Halt is getting older.
I love Halt and would hate to continue the series without him.
All romance talk aside, the strength in these books is, and always has been, Flanagan's gift with action sequences and the strong bonds between men.
Horace is a broad shouldered knight who is a experienced sword fighter who looks to Halt and Will as family.
They are a religious cult that may look good on the outside but really are attacking people.They chase them through mountains but are attacked by hired assassins called genovesians.
Will will get Malcolm to Halt in time or will Halt die before Will can reach him.
You don't want to put the book down from beginning to end.
the end and beginning are exciting the whole time making this book great the whole way through.
That is why I gave this book a five star.
Halt, Horace and Will are on the trail of Tennyson & his followers.
Will has defeated one of Tennyson's Genovesan assassins in Clonmel -but there are two left alive.
or is Will's mentor facing his last battle?(less)Halt's Peril (Ranger's Apprentice #9) by John Flanagan continues the action of The Kings of Clonmel as Halt, Will & Horace race to catch Tennyson & his band.
This is mostly straight forward action and suspense, with some very tension filled, emotional moments.
There is the usual humor and male bonding interspursed, and we discover a bit more about how Halt feels about Will & Horace.
The Ranger's Apprentice series has been one of my favorites as I've watched the characters develop and when it arrived in at school on Friday, I grabbed it for my weekend read.
While Halt's Peril was a good read, I feel that book 8, The Kings of Clonmel and Halt's Peril could have been combined into one tighter story.
Readers already know that Rangers are skilled at concealment and very intelligent, that Horace is a dependable friend and knight.
150 pages passed before the plot advanced.
I'll have to pass it on to others interested in the series and see what they think.
this one was suspenceful, you think for most of the book that he is going to die.so this one makes up for the last one again.10 books in to the series and there are only 2 books that had less then 4 stars.i will be reading the last 2 and this series will be one of my favas from now on.
👏👏👏👏👏
As clever, witty, and suspenseful as the rest of the series.
This is a delightful series and even though this is the ninth book I still enjoyed it very much.
In this episode Halt is injured when an enemy shoots a crossbow at him.
Even though it appears to be only a scratch the injury fails to heal, becomes infected and Halt's personality begins to change.
He becomes confused, collapses, sleeps a great deal and often raves when he is awake.
Young Will is devastated, cannot sleep, and sits by his mentor caring for him.
Can Halt recover?
The plot was different from other books in the series but so very well done that I recommend reading it.
Another enjoyable installment to the Ranger's Apprentice!! It moved slow at times, and I have my peeves with Flanagan's writing style, but this was a good book! The twist on Halt shocked me (in a good way!), bringing Malcolm back into the picture was a lot of fun, and Will's gift at the end was so sweet. The climax blew me away, as always, and the wrap-up ending... ALL THE FEELS.However, two people I know told me that books 10 and 11 are boring. What do you guys say to that?
My personal favourite in the series, and one of the greatest installments in the series, this book has the perfect amount of suspense scenes to make the reader become an emotional wreck. It is extremely exciting and teaches great lessons. I personally loved it, and would read it a million times more.
This was a great continuum of the Ranger's Apprentice series. Tense, mystical, but with Flanagan (and Halt's!) traditionally dry sarcasm/humor (even though Halt claims that sarcasm isn't wit at all). Definitely a wonderful addition to this world renowned series.
As always, I'm in love with the characters in this series!! Oh what a trio, and the support characters have real personalities.
The story was a good continuation of the Kings of Clonmel and kept my attention.
Goede afsluiting van het verhaal over Tennyson. Will en Arnaut zijn nu echt volwaardige jagers/strijders.
