https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/243427.Diary_of_Saint_Maria_Faustina_Kowalska
To even spend a few minutes reading or listening to her words and pondering this great mystery can awaken one to the reality of our complete nothingness in relation to God and yet His absolute passion for and delight in each little soul.
This is what made this text so rich and such a wellspring for heart-to-heart with our Creator-Savior-Sancitifier God.I purchased the audio version of the book and have used it often these past few months for meditation/prayer purposes.
The diary is read as a dialogue between Sr. Faustina and Jesus with a few words also from the Blessed Mother.
Her strong relationship with God was based exactly on these sufferings people were not aware of.
In her narration, we learn about the great love God has for each of us and we are encouraged to have deep faith and trust in Him at all times.
It definitely takes time to get through the book and meditate about it.
It might serve as a basis for prayer or spiritual exercise.I recommend this book to all people regardless of their denomination.
It is one of those books that can be read over and over again, always finding something new.
If you want to know what it means to be in mystical union with Christ while on earth and in recent history, 1930s, this book will teach you.
We can choose to do only the first two.Catholic contemplative prayer is not meant only for the monastery and cloister.
On pages 106-107 of The Fire Within, St. Theresa of Avila explains that she simultaneously was in mystical union with Christ while she conducted the daily business of administering and founding monasteries, and being a spiritual adviser to a bishop, priests and her brother.
This book really transcends all other books. Saint Faustina brings the truth of God's mercy to life. It brought me closer to my faith and still gives me hope. "Jesus I Trust in You."
I am still reading this book, as it takes sometime to fully comprehend the magnificent power and love of God. I am amazed at all Saint Faustina had to go through, and I am thankful to God that we could have such a wonderful soul who lived amongst us.
Amazing diary from a great Saint of the church. Great insight into the unfathomable mercy of Jesus Christ.
Para 1354Jesus: Oh, how painful it is to Me that souls so seldom unite themselves to Me in Holy Communion.
Para 1447Jesus: Write, speak of My mercy.
Para 1448Jesus: Listen, My daughter, although all the works that come into being by My will are exposed to great sufferings, consider whether any of them has been subject to greater difficulties than that work which is directly Mine – the work of Redemption.
I answered, “O my Love, when I have You I have everything.” And the Lord answered, if souls would put themselves completely in my care, I Myself would undertake the task of sanctifying them, and I would lavish even greater graces on them.
The book details Faustina's doubt and fear as well as the resistance she encounters and her many, many daily revelations.Jesus taught her the Devine Mercy Chaplet, which she said frequently for dying souls, many of whom asked her to pray for them (even though they were miles away).Today the image that was painted is the Image of Devine Mercy  Sunday, the Sunday after Easter.From the book: On one occasion, I heard these words: My daughter, tell the whole world about My Inconceivable mercy.
The soul that will go to Confession and receive Holy Communion shall obtain complete forgiveness of sins and punishment.* [our emphasis] On that day all the divine floodgates through which grace flow are opened.
Saint Faustina was a woman of obvious spiritual depth, and her visions of Christ and the spiritual world were excellent lessons for the spiritual growth of Catholics.So why did I give this book only 3 stars?
The profound teachings that St. Faustina discusses in this book are too important to be written off in this way.Overall, I would recommend this book to believing Catholics who are willing to struggle with the lack of structure and difficult prose of this book in order to mine the diamonds from this mine full of quartz.
For people who are not deeply involved in Catholic theology, and especially for non-believers, I would not recommend this book.
A frank and at times terrifying and at others so warm and loving, this book is an accounting of the few short years of Sr. Faustina's life, one that eventually led to sainthood.
It was actually easier to listen to the first time , at least that is how I did it with them using very authentic accents.
when I read the book afterwards, the prose actually jumped to life with the voices from the CD.
You can also use it as a page a day and let St. Faustina's book open on just the right page for you everyday.
I read an earlier printing of this book. Intense read..I love reading about her conversations with Jesus. The intimacy of her friendship with Him is something I find enormously consoling - because I know how much He desires this same intimacy with all of us.
I'm learning what God can do if we leave our lives into His hands, I'm totally loving this book.
Lenkės vienuolės dienoraštis, kurį jai liepė rašyti jos dvasinis vadovas po to, kai Faustina pasakė, kad matė Jėzų. Šis dienoraštis tai Jėzaus žinia perpinta asmeniniais vienuolės išgyvenimais ir pamastymais. Faustina Marija Kowalska buvo oficialiai Katalikų Bažnyčios paskelbta šventaja, o pačio Jėzaus paveikslas, kurį Jėzus jos prašė nutapyti buvo nutapytas Vilniuje ir dabar kabo Vilniaus Dievo Gailestingumo šventovėje. Daugelį vizijų Faustina regėjo taip pat Vilniuje, todėl Lietuvos katalikams tai ypatinga knyga. Subalansuota krikščionims, bet manau būtų puikus skaitinys ir psichiatrui. O tikinčiajam psichiatrui iš viso perlas.
Anyone who's Catholic should read this book as it contains the integral mystery of God revealed-namely it focuses on One of Two of His Most powerful Characteristics, His Mercy.
Jesus Himself gives insights into the Confessional [people who read this will gain a deeper understanding to this Sacrament, more peace and how The Lord Himself comes to meet us through the man of the Priest].
It's along the lines of: the Confessional is where "our misery meets God's Mercy] Never will God refuse a contrite soul.
God wanted this book to be read by ALL!
Jesus wants you to come to Him in confidence and trust.
Because I wanted to have a “quick” reference to all the golden information in the unabridged “Diary”, when I finished reading the book I spent seven hours copying the “to save” passages I had marked with “yellow stickies” during my reading time. I finished this task at 8 p.m. on August 8, 2014. I plan on meditating on this “Mini-Diary” regularly in the hope that it will bring me closer to my Faith and my God and that it will guide me to “where He wants me” for the remainder of my life here on earth.

When I decided to read this during the Jubilee Year of Mercy, I had no idea what I was committing to.
I knew the outcome of the book (Feast of Mercy, Chaplet, etc.) but had no idea how long it was or what the content would be like.
Reading Faustina's diary was an incredible six-month journey.
Though she and I have very little in common, I found her to be such an inspiration to grow in holiness.
It was hard to get into the Diary at first, but by the end I was truly enjoying the time reading it and was sorry to see it come to an end.
This book changed my life on how I trust in Jesus and forgiveness.
The beautiful thing about it is that it is a diary and you can read a bit at a time and soak it all in.
It is wonderful to take to Adoration of the Blessed Sacrament and meditate on what St Faustina has to say and what Jesus said to her.
This book is a precious gift!
The funny thing is when I read this a lot of times something in my life occures that coincides with what I have read with the diary.
St.Faustina is my homegirl so to read her personal Diary was a great dip into her pysche. It's nuts. It's nothing like you've ever read OR anything you've ever read before. But I must warn, it's super intense. She had personal conversation with Christ, like I'm talkin' one on one convo's with the Son of God like it was nothing and this is all recorded verbatim in the book. 50 burritos.
Wonderful book, teaches you about God's eternal mercy!
This book is amazing. What a blessing, then Sister Faustina, received to be able to communicate with our Lord and our Mother in the way that she did. When u read stories about our Lord and Mary appearing to people throughout the centuries I'm saddened by the fact so many people today, especially those outside of the Catholic Church, don't even know these instances have occurred.I read this a second time and got so much more out of it. I’m going to reread a few other books.
I would give this 10 stars if I could. Actually, it is beyond a start rating. Approved by the Catholic Church and writen by St. Faustina, this exploration of Christ's Mercy is a must read for every Catholic, especially for any with a devotion to the Sacred Heart.
I am reading this in bits and pieces. Incredible. I am amazed again and again at how God uses humble servants to transmit such profound and lasting messages. Some of the passages are almost scriptural in their beauty and spirituality. Its not about us; its about Him.
I am reading this in bits and pieces. Incredible. I am amazed again and again at how God uses humble servants to transmit such profound and lasting messages. Some of the passages are almost scriptural in their beauty and spirituality. It´s not about us; it´s about Him.
I picked up a copy of this book at the St. Meinrad Archabbey book store after a friend recommended it. He was right, it's an excellent read. The simple phrase, "Jesus, I trust in you" takes on new depth when you read the story of St. Faustina.
The book that will change your life forever
This book and my bible are part of my personal daily prayers.
Beautiful Book, I learned more about Theology from this book than many of my seminary classes. Really enjoyed reading Sr. Faustynka's writing in Polish.
LOVED IT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! very inspiring and insightful look into the life a mystic....and developing a profound devotion to divine mercy of GOD! :)
Enlightening and beautiful. What a wonderful message of Mercy and Love.
This is the kind of book you can read again and again and always learn something new!
