https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/71840.Fool_on_the_Hill
A few of my thoughts on the author, having read only this, his debut effort:Matt Ruff is smart.
In fact, maybe he's not quite so smart after all.Matt Ruff has read a few books.
In fact, this all looks more like namedropping than anything else.Matt Ruff is young.
Good thing the story is set on a college campus, where at least most of the world actually is an undergraduate.
It's too bad that his biggest "don't forget that there is a person writing this story that you're reading" effort comes writing himself in as God. And as the hero.
this book started off with so much potential.
I actually thought that it may be similar to Jitterbug Perfume, the only book that intertwines stories like ingredients to a wonderful ramen broth.
Well fool on the hill had no such seamless elegance.
and at times I wish I was reading something more captivating.
why did you have to just start so high and then slowly deflate like a helium balloon whose smiley face turns into a sad face on day 4?
and since we are on the topic of time..
why whY wHY WHY did this book drag on and on and on and ON?!?
It's immature, maybe, but sincere.I love the way this story makes use of the fantasy elements to craft a more transcendent literary tale.
Ruff nimbly sidesteps the pit of Predictability with skillful use of Foreshadowing and Inevitability, so even when the outcome of a scene is fully projected, the reader can focus on the muscular power of the tale without looking for a flashy plot twist.I don't expect that this 20-year-old novel is going to be widely read these days, even though I hope Ruff becomes more popular as The Mirage gains new fans.
I had a hard time even finding Fool on the Hill the first time I tried to do so, several years ago, spurred by the "Also by Matt Ruff" list in his brilliant later novel Set This House In Order (which you really should read—and I should reread, for that matter).
Its central human character is an improbably successful young author named S.T. George (yep, he does eventually have to face a Dragon, too) who's at Cornell to teach.
Rich, fun, inventive, imaginative, borrowing from everyone but owing to no one. Matt Ruff is an amazingly frantic writer who can take a story in fifteen different directions at once, but somehow tie them all back together in the most creative of ways. Fool on the Hill takes place at Cornell University, but a Cornell that is just outside of our own. His vivid details will leave you walking the campus, looking around and trying to see the world that created on top of this one.
Guter Unterhaltungsroman. Wie so vieles, das gut ist, wäre der Roman sehr gut geworden, wäre er gekürzt worden.
George is too much of a dork to accomplish any of these things by himself, so we get to see the god Apollo manipulate events in his life into the shape of a story.Fortunately, the side characters – and the prose itself – are good enough to make up for a bland leading man and love interest.
As a writer, I’m quite familiar with the manipulations that Ruff/Apollo undergoes to get characters in the right places so that coincidences can happen.
This book was first lent to me by a coworker and fellow Cornell alum who said, "I don't know quite how to describe this book.
It's kind of out there, with fairies and talking dogs, but it's set at Cornell and somehow I just know you will like it." She had me at talking dogs.
It's a treasure trove for fans of literature, mixing quest sagas, fairy tales, Greek mythology, Shakespeare, Tolkien, Richard Adams, not to mention cinematic Westerns, epic battles, zombie-like attacks, and motorcycle mayhem.
Place that all in a setting I know and love dearly, in roughly the same era as my own college experience, and I couldn't help but adore this book.
I described it to my son, as he asked what my book was about - "There is this old, eternal man who is writing a story which brings the people, animals and sprites of Cornell together to fight an epic battle with words, fairy tales,swords and magic" Cool, he said.Yep - it's a good one!
I hesitate to use this comparison because the content and tone of the two men's work share no similarities, but Ruff wields total command of previous books and literary conventions the way Quentin Tarantino does with genre cinema.
He masterfully intertwines multiple moving love stories, fantasy elements like talking allegorical cats & dogs, and a community of sprites, all of whom have their own riveting tales to tell.
I honestly want to make a pilgrimage to the campus to see the canvas on which this tale is painted because Ruff has caused me to believe that it may be the most magical place on earth.
Ruff is a post-modern writer, using irony liberally and I previously read The Public Works Trilogy which was much more successful.
Supposed to be a modern day fairy tale incorporating different cliques of students, fairies, and talking canines and felines, each with a sort of quest but the cast of characters is vast and it gets really murky -- like the Canterbury Tales meets One Hundred and One Dalmatians -- although all the ends don't really line up well at the end.
I'd say if you are not a fan skip and read the later utility/trilogy book.
Ein Autor mit viel Phantasie und die Geschichte ist durchaus "positiv anders". Aber das Buch hat Längen, es fehlt lange an Spannung, die einen zum Weiterlesen treibt. Und schon wieder der alte Kritikpunkt - das Schreiben selbst ist Thema im Buch. So bleiben nur 3 Strerne...
This is easily one of my favorite books of all time. I've read it three or four times and love it more each time. This is the story of a man looking for love, truth and dragons to slay, and as corny as that may sound, it's an amazing book.
Mostly, this book seems to be just "stuff happening," and not particularly interesting stuff, either.
A story (or Story, as Ruff would have it) holds a reader's interest by making her want to know what happens next.
I had hopes that creativity, humor, originality, or brilliance would make up for that, but alas, it didn't happen.
What I have wondered from the moment I started to read it is why I delayed picking it up for so long.As a Cornell alumna, I was drawn immediately to the book because it was set in Cornell, though a Cornell that was decidedly fictional, despite the presence of many familiar names and places (Risley, the Arts Quad, West Campus, and McGraw Tower are just a few that are mentioned).
What Matt Ruff was able to do was bring the magic to the forefront.Ruff effortlessly toys with the act of storytelling.
By the end I realized I could not care less what happened and just wanted to finish it because I was almost done.I cringed during the opening chapter in which we learn the protagonist is a writer and god is a writer and writers are the only ones with immortality and..
But it picked up over the next few chapters and I got into it.Then the laziness kicks in and the three plots (sprites, humans, dogs) never meaningfully intertwine or even conclude.
You know how Tim Gunn is always telling the people on Project Runway that they need to edit?
It's about 100 pages too long, and there are at least one or two too many story lines.
I would like to be able to summarize what the book is about, but I just don't think that I can.
It started out like gang-busters.
So creative, really liked the characters, was intrigued to see how the story would unfold.
Then it just started to drag.
Fool is definitely well written, and it's creative for sure, I just think it's a bit too long and complicated for itself.
I LOVE THIS BOOK.
It's so elaborate and exciting and trippy...
But most of all, it's got quite a bit of deep philosophy in it.
Moving, exciting, imaginative, intense....
It screams fun and games and Ruff delights the reader by flicking through half a century of literary allusions with an extra punch of magic to keep it enticing.
I loved every word of it and I was sincerely sorry that it ended, because it was one of the best books I've ever read.
BRAVO, MATT RUFF!!!
He deserves an extra-large round of applause.
I loved Lovecraft Country by Matt Ruff, so I thought that I'd give this book a try.
The writing style and story structure is completely different in this book.
That alone is not necessarily bad, of course.
The book starts out with a bunch of crazy characters and situations.
I was intrigued.
But by the time I reached page 162 out of 396, I finally lost interest and stopped reading.
There had been some interesting story fragments and a "slice of life" feel, but but there was still no overriding sense of what this story was all about.
Also, I didn't care about most of the characters by that time either.
I read Matt Ruff's "Sewer Gas and Electric" before I read this book, but he wrote this one first. It's much more romantic and optimistic than "Sewer Gas and Electric."The story focuses on Steven Titus George, a writer who has the ability to control the wind. It's a bit hard to explain in detail, but there are talking dogs and cats, an infinite number of monkeys typing at typewriters, a muse, roving bands of bohemians, sprites, anthropomorphized rats, and romance.Definitely worth checking out.
Matt Ruff's first book. Reading it again now, it's not actually five star good, but I read it the summer after my freshman year in college and it has been one of my favorite books ever since. Ruff writes a lot like Tom Robbins, except a little lighter on the political and spiritual messages, and a little heavier on the three-dimensional characters you can actually care about. Oddly, the stories are also a little easier to believe in, despite the fact that he uses a lot of magical realism.
A modern take on a classic fable, with multiple characters and plots resolving themselves. Sometimes a good story that is well told is all we need. I read a lot of post modern, non linear Literature, so reading Ruff's debut was a bit of a breath of fresh air. No politics. No super fancy prose. No hidden meanings. No research necessary. Just a well written STORY with believable characters in an unbelievable setting. A bunch of fun.
My favourite re-imagining of a myth. St. George slays his dragon and wins his princess with the help of a meddler, lazy monkeys, magic and love.
My alltime favorite book.
I first discovered him with Bad Monkeys and more recently with Lovecraft Country.
This book reads like a undergraduate’s Creative Writing Class fart.
Don’t judge him based on this and for the love of all that holy, don’t make this the first book you read by him.
It never comes together and instead of a fantasy kaleidoscope of cool it’s more like an overhyped roller coaster that climbs and climbs (for way too long) then shoots straight into a corkscrew before you get the chance to raise up your hands and enjoy it.
Read Bad Monkeys and/or Lovecraft Country.
This book is absolutely fantastic, and it’s all the more impressive once you find it that the author wrote it as his senior thesis project in College.
I bought a copy of this book after reading Lovecraft Country by the same author, and I think I like this one even more.
While the plot is good, what made me really enjoy this book was the sheer force of storytelling behind it.
Despite the numerous characters, you end up loving each and every one.
If you like a good tale with a fine sprinkling of the fantastical, don’t miss this one!
mongrel dogs playing out an allegory for racism while they search out spiritual answers, you've got a community of sprites battling an evil rat thing named Grub, and you've got a writer who's constantly being messed with by an ancient Greek storyteller standing in for God. Moves along pretty quickly.That said, I'm not sure the book aged well.
The "oo, we're so weird and diverse because we dye our hair purple and ride horses on campus" didn't go over, the racism message was heavy-handed, and the charmed writer hero Stephen George was *supposed* to be a fool, but as a hero his lack of depth was annoying.
Can't believe Matt wrote this as a young, first time novelist.
Very intricate.
Very funny.The protagonist, presumably Matt himself (I think), is an English teacher and novelist resident in Ithaca New York, home of Cornell, where he went to school.
There is a god like figure overseeing his work, Mr. Sunshine, maybe his old English professor?
So many sub plots that I can't begin to focus what this book was really about.
Probably needs another reading sometime.
Except that I never read a book twice.Okay, it's about a story teller, overseen by another story teller, who falls in love with a girl.
Wacky, intricate, smart, entertaining.
I should lead in with the fact that I do like Ruff's work.
I read other books by him and enjoyed them quite a lot, which is why I was interested to read this - what I understand to be his first novel.
I must say, had this been my introduction to him, I likely wouldn't have read anything more.
This book *could* have been set anywhere, so why all the specific comments and locations other than the author having a deep love for his alma mater?
Honestly, had it not been the only book I had with me on a business trip, I likely wouldn't have finished it

