https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/150222.Self_Portrait_in_a_Convex_Mirror
(Particularly since Dana says that the first time she read this book -- at my age -- she sensed something very profound was happening but couldn't get a handle on what it was.
And I'm all OH YEAH TOTALLY GOT THIS NO PROBS GUYS.)Still, Ashbery seems to be saying something authentic about the experience of being human--looking around at all the beauty, all the time, the most pedestrian obvious kind of beauty, the relentless surge of the physical world: dragonflies and tidepools and dirigibles and Queen Anne's Lace, all the time--and feeling suffocated.
"You bad birds,But God shall not punish you, youShall be with us in heaven, though lessConscious of your happiness, perhaps than we."

I feel some trepidation.What has finally given me permission to say I don't like it is listening to the august Poetry Magazine's podcast in which they defend Ashbery, saying the work is bricolage.
Well, I hate bricolage, so hooray!
Every so often there is some fantastic line or image and I try to seize it and connect it to something.
But nothing is connected to anything.
I, too, find incoherent juxtaposition very entertaining when I do it myself, but I don't expect to inflict the results on others.Clearly lots of people like Ashbery: God speed to you all etc.
After all, he is the head of the epistemological revolution in American poetry (says T. Hoagland) and after all he is a so & so whatever fellow with an apartment on rails to prove it and didn't he live in Paris for a while like a good little J.A. He's laughing at us for loving him. I just know he's holding these flowers and he gets it. He gets us this big piece of the cake and we nibble it on the fat couch.
I don't know if I'm poetry-deaf or what, but this just seems like a bunch of words strung together for no reason other than to befuddle.
But the centerKeeps collapsing and re-forming.The couple at a picnic table (butIt's too early in the season for picnics)Are traipsed across by the river'sUnknowing knowledge of its workingsTo avoid possible boredom and the stainOf too much intuition the whole sceneIs walled behind glass.
"Too early,"She says, "In the season." A hawk drifts by."Send everybody back to the city."The first six lines are fairly accessible.
Abstract, but I think I get it.After that, we get a picnicking couple, a glass wall, and a directive to go back to the city.
If anyone can explain this book to me, I'm all ears.
I haven't responded to poetry in this way in so long!
I don't remember much of anything, and I understand probably even less, but I want to read this book and these poems again and again and again!
I found a podcast of Ashbery reading from the title poem for about 20 minutes, and this seemed a really productive inroad for me.
The title poem makes me want to weep, it's so fucking beautiful, so indelible.
I'd start citing, but I'd probably transcribe the poem's entirety.
The children Still at their games, clouds that arise with a swift Impatience in the afternoon sky, then dissipate As limpid, dense twilight comes.Only in that tooting of a hornDown there, for a moment, I thoughtThe great, formal affair was beginning, orchestrated,Its colors concentrated in a glance, a balladeThat takes in the whole world, now, but lightly,Still lightly, but with wide authority and tact.The prevalence of those gray flakes falling?They are sun motes.
In 1967 the Beatles released Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band and in 1975 John Ashbery published Self-Portrait in a Convex Mirror.
I suppose it is unremarkable that every song on Sgt. Pepper is a memorable one, as almost every Beatle album had that distinction.
Yet, it is worthy to note that, unlike most books of poetry, almost every poem in Self-Portrait has an enduring life of its own, that the whole work fits together as seemlessly as Sgt. Pepper, and that it has as much cultural resonance as the Beatles' unique masterpiece.
Although Ashbery is a notoriously academic (i.e. difficult) poet to read, once you really start to immerse yourself in these poems they are quite extraordinary. A touch of surrealism here, and a smidge of classicism there really add a dichotomy to this collection in which Ashbery paradoxically takes his reader to the center of things by continuously circumventing it. The lines read more like free flowing (seemingly disjointed) thoughts building off one another than they do pretentious poetic contrivances.
You can see that just by scrolling through the wildly divergent reactions to this collection.
It's challenging, vaporous, reflective in a highfalutin way that can feel distant and a little cold.
The flatness of his delivery works weirdly well, grounding the abstract observations in a way the voice in my head wouldn't.
I don't know that this will end up being a collection I value and revisit as much as, say, Adrienne Rich or Jack Gilbert, but I also suspect its own singular richness will grow for me as I age.
My favorite poem in this book so far is "Lithuanian Dance Band," possibly because the voice in it reminds me of the voice of Ashbery's poet-friend Frank O'Hara, whom I love; however, there are many more echoes of T.
S. Eliot than of Frank O'Hara in this book, as far as my untrained ear can make out.I think most people would argue that Ashbery is a greater poet than O'Hara, but my heart prefers O'Hara nonetheless.
Many of O'Hara's poems are written in the voice of this persona, a persona that the reader who is a hopeless romantic can easily relate to; this adds an element of heartwarming familiarity to O'Hara's poetry, but it also limits his versatility somewhat.
Ashbery and O’Hara, in particular, were avid moviegoers, and the great sensory shift that comes from abandoning yourself to the darkness of a movie theater seems ingrained in the New York School aesthetic — it loses none of its joy in the translation from one medium to the other.John Ashbery, perhaps the most revered American poet living today, has won the Pulitzer Prize and the National Book Award in poetry, and has collected numerous other laurels.
The first time I read through the book, I didn't start understanding the poems at all until about half way through the book, yet still liked them.
When I read the book again, I understood it a lot more (but not totally) and really liked the poems.
I am looking forward to reading more Ashbery books to find out!My favorite poems in this book (While I was looking for poems online, I found out that you can get Ashbery ringtones!):City AfternoonFear of DeathForties Flick (half way down the page)Mixed Feelings
It takes several reads of each poem to learn how to follow its threads, but Ashbery must have known that, because the collection's sequencing, moving from shorter poems and building to the longer ones, helps the reader find entry into each piece.
This is not a collection you can pick up and access quickly, but that's its gift: like the moments it explores, it forces the reader to slow down and follow our thoughts, bringing us into a very modern now, the way poetry has always sought out to do.
Self Portrait in a Convex Mirror is def my favorite poem.
It is a long poem about standing in a museum and looking at a drawing from 1524 by Parmigianino.
The depths Ashbery reaches to deal with this artwork, though.
Ashbery clearly came to know this work by Parmigianino until it became a channel revealing or reflecting things about life to the poet.
God how I hope to come to know a work I love like this one day.
Perhaps his best, and his most accessible.
His legacy is the embedded radical surprise(s) in a poem.
The swift and yet appropriate turn of thought, from line to line.
He's lived and published long enough to be able to enjoy his reputation--like Adrienne Rich, perhaps.
Although he is New York School, Stephen Burt's Elliptical Poets owe him much--what he leaves out of a poem, the sharp and sensible jumps.
The appreciation of syntax--here is a poet finding the poetry of the American idiom, as William Carlos Williams wanted.
Send ups, pastiches, and homages to/of conversational forms and formats--speeches, advertisements, scripts, etc.

This one won a Pulitzer Prize, with the famous poem, "Foreboding" and the great title poem.
I have the mass-market-sized Penguin paperback, yellow with age.
This book has always been an inspiring one for me, I've used it for cut-ups for ages, because the lines are so intricately constructed.
The best place to start, I think, for people who never read Ashbery before.
Love the twists and turns, and it is around this time that Ashbery settles in to writing the kind of work he is so famous for.
Always surprising, Ashbery takes the reader to places one never knew existed.
Great read.
I have tried so hard to relish Ashbery, but I don't get it. He doesn't have any music, he's perhaps the most prosaic poet I've ever read. He doesn't do narrative; whenever he starts to tell a story he gets distracted and piles on different ideas that I find distracting, and not in a good way. Unpicking the loony personal experience that Pound offers in The Cantos is really rewarding and interesting compared to this. And he won't shut up. Prolix. Unengaging. Dull. "Affirmation that doesn't affirm anything."
My second "Ashbury," and things are going along the lines of the first ("Houseboat Days"). An early WTF moment from the poem Absolute Clearance:In the vague hotel roomThe linear blotches when duskLifted them up were days and nightsAnd out over the oceanThe wish persisted to be a dream at homeCloud or bird asleep in a troughOf discursive waters.I don't know if I'll finish it or not. I read difficult poetry all the time, but this stuff... It's both beautiful and, for me at least, utterly meaningless. Maybe that's the point.
i wore an outfit a blue and a green a dark kind of them that matched the cover of the first edition nick owns. it was glorious to read during the thunder outside. it was glorious. it was. i adore you john. let's make ham and vegannaise sandwiches together.
i just let him toss and turn me wherever he darn well pleases.dense as all heck, though.
I feel as though,Somebody had just brought me an equation.I say, I can't answer this--I knowThat it's true, please believe me...
At other times these poems, for all their glimmer, are actually quite plainspoken, like this passage on the maddening instability of our perception in "Grand Gallop":Too bad, I mean, that getting to know each just for a fleeting secondMust be replaced by imperfect knowledge of the featureless whole,Like some pocket history of the world, so generalAs to constitute a sob or a wail unrelatedTo any attempt at definition.
And then we have these wonderful last few pages of the volume, in the second half of the title poem.
While Ashbery is certainly an interesting writer, I'm afraid I find his work curiously lacking in affect.
Mind you, there are certainly some memorable lines in these poems, and I love the titles of many of them ("Tenth Symphony," "Märchenbilder," etc.), but overall the writing seems lacking in affect.
I'm glad I read these, and as I said, there are some lines I'll be tempted to quote again, but I fear I am unlikely to go on an Ashbery reading binge based on my experience here.
I finished "Mirror" in a long afternoon, taking breaks to digest each poem.
And I must say, Ashbery was thoroughly disappointing.
The poems present some interesting images, but none of them can cohesively wrap themselves around a central theme or idea.
They are seemingly about nothing.
Some start interestingly enough, but then they devolve into thoughts about enigmas or other lofty concepts.
When the poems touch on the concrete, they're often just obscure metaphors - oceans, art, mirrors, the emptiness of a day or night, and none of them are imbued with the undercurrent of profound meaning found in some of Ashbery's modern day contemporaries.
Leí la traducción al español de Javier Marías de este excepcional poema de largo aliento en el que John Ashbery reflexiona sobre la pintura del mismo título, hecha por Parmigianino en 1542 y que el poeta vio por primera vez en Viena. Al leerla tuve la impresión de que había un traspaso directo de la experiencia de Ashbery a los versos. Era impresionante sentir que ese caudal de palabras, bellamente elegidas, eran -al mismo tiempo- desborde y contención.
قراءة جون آشبري تحتاج إلى صبر و أناة ، مهما حاولت أن تتأمل بنية القصيدة و كيف ينسجها ( كقصيدة تجريبية ) ، تظل توّاقا للمعنى الذي ينشده . قرأت لآشبري باللغة الانجليزية القصيدة الرئيسة في هذه المجموعة الشعرية ( صورة ذاتية في مرآة محدبة) يبدو لي أن المترجم غسان الخنيزي قد جعل فهم آشبري أمرا ممكنا .أحببت مقدمة المترجم التي تناول فيها رحلة ترجمته لهذه المختارات و تتبعه للتسجيلات الصوتية و آلاف الصفحات من شعر آشبري حتى وٰلد هذا الكتاب .
