https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/453084.The_New_York_Stories_of_Edith_Wharton
This New York Review Books edition collects twenty classic Edith Wharton (1862-1937) short stories spanning the entire range of her writing career and also includes a most informative twenty-two page Introduction by Roxana Robinson, providing biographical detail and extensive social and cultural context for her fiction.
MANSTEY'S VIEW“The view from Mrs. Manstey’s window was not a striking one, but to her at least it was full of interest and beauty.” So begins this tale, the very first Edith Wharton short story to appear in print.
(hide spoiler)]* “The very qualities which had made her a perfect mistress… made her… a perfect wife for a man cut off from everything but the contemplation of his own end.”* “He knew no more how to prepare for the return to life than he had for the leaving of it.”* “She was a woman for a sentimental parenthesis, not for the pitiless continuity of marriage.”Pomegranate Seed, 4*The final twist puts it in a different genre (think of pomegranate seeds in Greek myth).
"There are two ways of spreading light: to be the candle or the mirror that reflects it." — Edith WhartonIn this collection of short stories, Edith Wharton ploughs a furrow through the milieu of high society in early twentieth century New York. I must confess that I didn’t immediately warm to her ornamented, yet judicious, prose and at the onset likened her writing style to Oscar Wilde with the brakes on.Happily, fickle fool that I am, I quickly became attuned to the tempo of her penmanship and
— Edith WhartonIn this collection of short stories, Edith Wharton ploughs a furrow through the milieu of high society in early twentieth century New York.
Wharton writes with precision and aplomb.
The only misgiving I have is that there isn’t much here in the way of variety (this is not the Heinz 57 of short stories).
It does become somewhat repetitive after a while.But, with writing this good, how could I award it anything but five stars?Thank you, @Laysee, for introducing me to Edith Wharton!
Themes touch on the world of artists/writers (idealism versus pragmatism); the complexities of love and pain; marriage, adultery, and the consequences of divorce (a social expunction of sorts); the plight of women both privileged and impoverished; the struggles between nobility and hypocrisy.
We were told that "these two ladies visualized each other, each through the wrong end of her little telescope." Mrs. Slade has an old score to settle with Mrs. Ashley whom she thinks was once in love with her fiancé and later husband.
To Mrs. Jaspar’s dinner invitations, Warley’s scornful response is "Mr Warley declines the boredom." How do old folks maintain social respectability when health and wealth have failed them?
No-it was always the same thing, over and over and over again-the same vague gush of adjectives, the same incorrigible tendency to estimate his effort according to each writer’s personal preferences, instead of regarding it as a work of art, a thing to be measured by fixed standards!So goes another of my reviews….This is an interesting collection of 20 short stories from Edith Wharton, spanning a long period from 1893 to 1934.
Those themes would probably have been more relevant at the time.where for a moment one can abandon one’s self to the illusion that New York humanity is a shade less unstable than its bricks and mortar.The stories are all set in New York.
This will be good for people who love Wharton & are interested in the development of her craft. Some of the stories presented here are rather uneven & disappointing; I love her best when she dwells on searing emotional pain, as in Autres Temps..., which I like best out of this collection. Several of the others here are also fine enough, but more than a few smack too much of an O. Henryish kind of predictability and pat ending. As a collection, it isn't outstanding, but I didn't want to give it a 3, somehow.
I love reading Edith Wharton. I have said before that I consider her one of the great American writers, on a level with Fitzgerald and Hemingway. I like her novels better than her short stories but there are some good ones in this book. She was at her best when writing about New York as she does here with these stories.
Anthologies of stories are always going to be somewhat patchy - not every story is as much to one's taste as the others, but this set of stories had quite a few that really struck me, and in general, I really like the way that Wharton writes - definitely will be seeking out her novels soon.That said, her style is definitely not going to be good for everyone - in the introduction, Roxana Robinson describes uses the phrase 'crystalline brilliance', which tells you most of what you need to know.
While the quality of these stories varies (sometimes the dialogue seems completely stilted, but perhaps this just a 21st century ear listening to a voice from the 19th), Wharton is generally fantastic at depicting the psychology of her characters, and how little they know of themselves and their companions.
She is particularly good at drawing out the roles of money and class and gender in New York society, which can rarely be spoken of but are hanging ever present over the characters, like evil weather.
There's no joy here, but if you enjoy chagrin, woe, and remorse, as I do, you are in for an extremely reserved but quietly furious good time.
Always love a trip to Wharton or James' New York... short stories are easy for a short read, or longer if you have a morning to kill. Love the twist Wharton always has to her stories. The last line of this collection is a good one.
I love Edith Wharton but many of the stories in here didn't seem like her best work. Favorites were: A Cup of Cold Water, The Quicksand, The Rembrandt, After Holbein, Pomegranate Seed, and Roman Fever.
Wharton was a bit of a badass for her time.
I love Edith Wharton and her spy glass into the souls of the '400' in 19th - early 20th c. New York. Just finished 'New Years Day' in an old edition that first in your hand and has larger than average type. What a joy to read...Instead of glamorizing the already splendid lives and environments of these rich folks, she meticulously describes their difficult relationships, affairs and tragedies all caught in a web of restrictive behavioral norms - societal/financial and romantic. Her language is beautiful, simple and devastating.
While I have read all of her novels, I have come to realize that her greatest strength may well be her short stories.
In my opinion, Wharton is one of the masters of the short story genre; she grabs you in a page or two, and doesn't let go.
If you read only a sample of Wharton shorts, read Autre Temps, Pomegranate Seed, and Roman Fever.
This is an excellent representation of Wharton's short stories, and I highly recommend it.

This was an interesting book to read, as the stories are arranged in the order they were written.
I sensed her maturation as a reader, both in terms of her subject matter and the plots of the stories.
I loved the stories that engaged with visual art.
She also, of course, is always fascinated by class and gender.
The early stories have a kind of O'Henry feel to the them.
The later stories are more sophisticated.
Some of the stories are quite long.
There was actually a kind of ghost story later in the book, which surprised me.Glad I read these stories.
Oh snap! Miss Jones will teach you a thing or two about class, society, and what it means to be a woman. And her New York is possibly the most romantic New York of all time. If you can, try to read each story in the neighborhoods in which it's set. Better yet, throw on a bustle, huff on a little ether, and horse-and-buggy yourself around in character(s)! What a delight.
I want to kiss Wharton for having written this stuff when she did. And we thought free thinking females were an invention of the 60s... She understands people. She's not afraid to write from a male pov. She's so good at making you enter the world of her characters. A different New York, but in some ways, the same one.
I hate this star system; never liked grading students either...EW a master of prose and such a clear, insightful social lens. The good stories are riveting and profound; a few did not compel me at all...but that's how it should be. Supern Intro by the wonderful contemporary novelist, Roxana Robinson.
Edith Wharton led a pretty troubled life and these stories were written in the midst of it all. They're poignant, darkly humorous, and nearly always suspenseful, in a drawing-room-drama type of way. I laughed, I cried, I felt transported to Gilded Age New York City.
Beautifully written, as all of Wharton's work. The stories rage from middle of the road to astonishing- Roman fever has to be one of the best short stories ever written. I finished it and went back to the beginning to start it again.
I love Edith Wharton, and I needed more of her in my life after moving to New York, so I read about half of these over the span of a few months. It's time to part for now, but I'm sure I'll return to them.
Wow, Edith Wharton's writing is incisive, rich, and ominous. Of course the writing is old-fashioned, which can sometimes be hard to wrap my brain around, but many of the short stories consist of flawed, nuanced characters and a very delectable, dark, twisted ending.
Really good. A variety of stories, I like that she does not write the same thing again and again. My favorite story had to be Roman Fever. I felt it had a different level, different purpose. I love New York and here is a newyork from the very early 1900's. Enjoy.
The later stories surprised me. I didn't expect so much would hang on the plot. Made for very entertaining reading - lots of irony, mystery and surprise, in addition to the development of character and scene. O Henry and EW have some things in common - though not their literary reputations.
I had this vision that I was going to read this in Washington Square Park and imagine being in Olde New York. But it's rained the whole time I was reading it, so a no go there. I love Edith Wharton and I love New York, but if you don't, this will probably be a bit tiring.
Elegant writing and a brutal contemporary assessment of turn of the Century New York and Parisian society of the belle epoch. Short stories that rival Anton Chekov both in their brevity and in their power to engage and enthrall.
Edith Wharton's wit and piercing insight is still as relevant and perceptive as it must have been when she wrote. Gorgeous, unusual and sometimes darkly unexpected. Love her work!
I've read a lot of books over the years. This is the first time I've read a short story collection cover to cover. Edith Wharton is a magnificent writer.
A great collection of stories from Edith Wharton. A good variety of different subjects, characters, and settings. Not all just upper class New York society stories.
