https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1823.Them
What is the Bilderberg Group? Is it a self-interested but vaguely benevolent private club composed of international movers & shakers who come together annually to discuss "government and politics, finance, industry, labour, education and communications"? Or is it a nefarious group of power brokers and nation breakers - the Secret Rulers of the World?Who is David Icke? Goofy New Age conspiracy nut who believes our leaders actually belong to 1 of 16 sinister alien-reptile species? Or a misund
the kind of hopelessly naive person who pretends that no one is truly capable of enacting evil - after all, you just gotta look under the surface and we're all just silly, harmless humans who couldn't hurt a fly, right?
This collection of anecdotes focusing on the "human elements" of various controversial figures and groups - with a brief but poignant (and ultimately infuriating) stop-off into the world of Ruby Ridge - is fast-paced and consistently amusing.
In an engagingly sardonic and self-effacing style, the book reveals who the assholes are and how fucked up governments are and points out the hypocrisy of certain extremists - fun stuff.
(Most extremists and conspiracy theorists have a strong hatred and fear of Jews or 12' shape-shifting lizards - which are possibly the same thing).
What is quite interesting is that there is some truth in all the conspiracy theories but the extremists are so off-base they miss it completely.
If you've ever wanted to know about conspiracy theories, if you want to know if there really is a ruling elite and if you wonder that my comment about 12' shape-shifting lizards was a bit off-base, then get hold of the book and read the last few chapters.
So yes that is all true, but even someone who is normally a rational beacon of truth like David Icke misses out on the real root of the problem, all of these groups of men and lizards are really controlled by miniature little people who live on the moon and who (like black helicopters) can fly into your ear if they want and make you do anything they want, and their own raison d'etre, is to personally fuck up MY life.
They are funny little people and they live on the moon, but can teleport anywhere they want instantly.
So my Jon Ronson binge read carries on as they ae an easy and engaging read when you are busy.
This volume, one of Jon's earlier books, sees him hanging out with various extremists.
Is it anything new to read now?
The book didn't alter any of my opinions at all.
This volume seems cheaper and flimsier than his later books (not physically).
But maybe it is just me hitting the end of a binge and the novelty is wearing off.
But still a fun read, just not as good as his later stuff.
This book was full of answers(1) to questions I can't bear to admit I've asked myself.
Ronson interviews, hangs out, and even lightly conspires with different sectors of the population who see themselves as victims of 'Them'.
The details of the world conspiracy differ.
Think Burning Man with Henry Kissinger.
I think he did us a service by writing about 'Them' because 'Them' are out there driving around, buying burgers, waiting for those moments when they know they are in the right company so they can remove their human suits and go lizard.
I mean, duh, we all know the Bilderberg isn't running the world (as Wikileaks has proved by publishing their most boring meeting recordings ever), but then who is?
Why is there no data of China's military spending?
How come the average age in Russia is so much higher than the rest of the world?
Is Glenn Beck a lizard?
Who's controlling the chupacabra?
Is Hollywood a Jewish conspiracy?
Is that why Michael Bay keeps doing sequels?
Is the Transformer actually a symbol of satanic worship?
Is he actually a prop by Obama to divert our attention from Area 51?
This is a fabulous romp through various extremist groups.
Ronson writes with flair about his encounters with various Islamic, right-wing, and left-wing whackos.
The most humorous are his encounter with David Icke, the UFO conspiracist.
David Icke thinks that the world has been taken over by shape-shifting reptilian aliens.
The Anti-defamation League thought that it was code for Jews.
Icke gets detained by Canadian border officials, when he tried to enter the country to attend a UFO conference.
The officials interrogate him to determine if he is an Anti-semite or not.
They conclude that when he says shape-shifting aliens, shape-shifting aliens is what he meant and let him go.
My god, this fucking guy.)And at some point, someone (probably Wonkette) mentioned that once upon a time, Jon Ronson, whom I love, wrote a book about hanging out with Alex Jones, whom I despise, and well, I ordered it so fast my computer spun.About the book itself: Unfortunately it's not all that great.
Like, watching Jon buddy up with Ku Klux Klanners, and express his distrust of the Anti-Defamation League, and hang out laughingly with former dictators, and joke around with conspiracy theorists like David Icke and, yup, Alex Jones...
So my respect for Jon is undiminished by this book, and my schadenfreudian contempt for Alex Jones is too.
Maybe it was just the surroundings I was in, and maybe even the fact I had read The Boy on the Bridge just before this book, but I couldn’t seem to focus my attention on this.Don’t get me wrong, the plot was really interesting and I did learn lots of new things about conspiracy theories that I hadn’t know before.
My mum did say to me that she felt this was his weakest book, so I’ve got more to look forward to with his other work… of which I will be giving a shot!
I really enjoyed The Psychopath Test: A Journey Through the Madness Industry, but sadly did not feel the same about Them. I thought the first chapter was funny, but it quickly went downhill from there. The connections felt forced and convoluted. Maybe I'm just not paranoid enough?
"One thing you quickly learn about the extremists is that they really don't like being called extremists. In fact they often tell me that we are the real extremists. They say that the Western liberal cosmopolitan establishment is itself a fanatical, depraved belief system. I like it when they say this because it makes me feel as if I have a belief system." Džon Ronson je podjednako lud koliko je i hrabar. Napisano sa strašnim smislom za humor, Ronson ovde „izveštava“ kako je pričao sa neo-nacis
"One thing you quickly learn about the extremists is that they really don't like being called extremists.
They say that the Western liberal cosmopolitan establishment is itself a fanatical, depraved belief system.
I like it when they say this because it makes me feel as if I have a belief system."
Džon Ronson je podjednako lud koliko je i hrabar.
Napisano sa strašnim smislom za humor, Ronson ovde „izveštava“ kako je pričao sa neo-nacistima, islamskim ekstremistima, ljudima koji veruju u guštere vanzemaljce itd itd, i uočio da svi oni veruju u jednu malu kliku ljudi koji odredjuju planetarne sudbe iz jedne male zamračene prostorije u sred ničeg.
Jon Ronson hangs out with various people who have one thing in common - they believe that the world is controlled by a shadowy cabal of powerful people (many of them Jews) who decide the fate of the world.
According to this grand conspiracy theory, the "secret rulers" engineer the elections of heads of state, start and end wars, have people assassinated, etc.The title Them has a dual meaning.
It refers to the people who believe in this world conspiracy and those who supposedly are its members.
As for the owl thing, it is pretty bizarre, but it mainly seems like a gathering for aging frat boys.
I truly enjoyed reading this book. I heard about it from Coast to Coast AM when Mr. Ronson was interviewed by George Noory. He described the incident from the book where he ended up at an extremist camp surrounded by Islamic extremists working toward the Islamification of Britain. When they discover he is Jewish the response is intriguing. The whole book is well worth a read. I still pick it up to read random chapters even now!
Published back in 2001, it’s Ronson’s first book, and some of the chapters - particularly those researched and written before 9/11 - seem to come from a halcyon and innocent time.
Jon goes around with the late Jim Tucker, who at the time was dismissed by many as a crackpot because of his obssession with outing the shady group of hyper-powerful individuals who met each year in a secret location and pulled all kinds of internationl strings.
Now the group seems to be pretty much out in the open, but (and this would have Jim Tucker turning in his grave) apparently no-one gives a damn.
"Them" consists of journalist Jon Ronson's encounters with extremists of various stripes - a British Muslim extremist, a KKK leader, several believers of complex conspiracies and others.
Most of the extremists are egotistical and yet many are also quite concerned that they appear in a 'good light' to Ronson, and therefore the public.
It never fails though that the seemingly 'genial' extremist will burst into racist diatribe or in some other way reveal their true nature.In the beginning of this book, I had to check a couple of times to make sure that it was really non-fiction, as Jon Ronson's tales of extremists have some almost unbelievable passages.
This will probably be my last foray into the writer's work.I have been for years interested in conspiracy theories.
I've had arguments with at least one that I had to leave at "well, we'll just have to agree to disagree." as this person believes so strongly in well, what they believe.The problem here is that Mr. Ronson's approach to book writing and reporting (basically following subjects around, recording what they do and say and what is done and said around them) doesn't boil down to anything here.
He meets and interacts with several individuals and groups all of whom believe strongly in (or at least say they do) different conspiracies.
His subjects include Islamic fundamentalists, racist groups like the KKK and Aryan Nations, Bilderberg crusaders like Jim Tucker, paranoid talk radio personalities, and even a man convinced that the rulers of the world are truly giant lizards in disguise.THE TRUTH IS OUT THERE.I thought Them was frequently clever and often ironic, but never laugh-out-loud funny.
Jim Tucker, labeled as a conspiracy theorist, was actually on to something with his Bilderberg crusade – but the extreme, even anti-Semitic viewpoints of the paper he published in undermined his credibility.
David Icke, the man who believes the world is run by giant lizards, is unfairly branded as an anti-Semite – he really does believe in exactly what he preaches.
Very twisty book as the author spends time with a Muslim Extremist, Ruby Ridge survivors, at Waco, with Alex Jones, the Klan, Aryan Nation, the IRA, and a few others getting into their headspace & ideas.
Read by the author on audio which I fully recommend.Side Note: This book was published not long before 9/11, I often found myself wondered as I listened to it if his focus would have been different or if he would have even attempted this after 9/11.
This book would have been a lot more amusing if I'd read it when it came out rather than this year, when it seems the conspiracy theorists are gaining the upper hand. That said, it's a fascinating look at the ways in which extremist thought intersects across the political spectrum. Or is that what 'they' want us to think? Hmm.Anyway, I'm glad I read this, but I think I need something really grounding to read today. Like, I don't know, The Lord of the Rings or something.
('Oh no, there's no conspiracy, no cover-up, no suppression, ladies and gentlemen of the world.') Note the similarity between Icke's thinking and the garden-variety religious fanatic’s: everything from a leaking tap to a power cut is a sign the believers are in the right.
The less said about Alex Jones the better, though I wish that Ronson, writing in 2001, had troubled to piss in his coffee.It might help the tabloid newspapers if they covered Bakri and co.
You can't help wondering, reading this book, that evil is more self-deluding and pathetic than diabolical.
Again @jonronson proves why he's one of my favorite writers. THEM is a fascinating journey in conspiracies--what is real and what is fantasy--and the people who believe them. Of all his books this is most draining. The dogma that the people featured in the book is depressing. It is mentality taxing to wrap your head around belief systems that more complex than the simple truth in most cases.
This book is a marvel, an eye-opener, an education.
The world he is describing is one in which one group of deranged individuals is confronted by another, equally demented group, and he is forced to confront his own inability to decide between 'Them and Them'.
At one point he says 'Thank God I didn't believe in the secret rulers of the world.
Imagine what the secret rulers of the world might do to me if I did.' My favourite quote, though, is from Islamic 'teacher' Omar Bakri: 'Be careful from homosexuality!
Listened to in audio format.Jon Ronsen is a British Journalist/Documentary maker rather like Louis Theroux.In Them: Adventures with Extremists Jon investigates the KKK, David Icke and the shadowy Bilderberg group.
David Icke who was humiliated on the Terry Wogan chat show for claiming the royal family are lizards.
The most interesting part was the paranoid conspiracy theorists he meets when trying to enter a bizarre owl ritual.Jon also spends time with hate cleric Omar Bakri Mohammed.
This was an interesting read but did not do anything to debunk or provide evidence of these conspiracies.
I read this when it was first published in 2001 (I was 17) and thought it was fantastic.
Reading it again in 2009 (aged 25), I feel a little bit different.
On the other, I feel that some of the topics covered don't sit very well with the generally humorous tone; in particular, Ronson's experiences with Muslim extremist Omar Bakri and various members of the Ku Klux Klan lead to some genuinely disturbing encounters, and I'm not sure that portraying those involved as amusing, almost farcical characters is the right approach.
I had never heard of most of the 'new world order' conspiracy stuff (or of any of these people, except Randy Weaver), and I really appreciated how the author avoided making any of his own judgments about the people he was writing about/interviewing - there's a lot of 'then this happened, and then this person said this' and I found that much more effective in highlighting the craziness than sensationalizing it and putting his own spin on it would have been (and sometimes leaves the people who are supposedly 'mainstream' look just as nutty as the conspiracy theorists).
He just lays out what happened and leaves you to think about it.The phrase that sums up the book for me was 'I believed I was right, but who knows?
This is when he is the 'cosmopolitan' self-regarding liberal trying to be fair but coming down on the side of reason in a way that sets an ideological agenda regardless of intent.The first third is good not only because he cleverly humanises a rather silly man in Omar Bakri Mohammed (rather as he points up the essential authoritarian narcissism of Ian Paisley in a later vignette) but because he takes us into the heart of the New World Order conspiracy theory.The standard response to NWO conspiracy theory is that it is the territory of half-educated half-wits and that there is no conspiracy.
My Jon Ronson journey began with one of his more recent books, So You’ve Been Publically Shamed.
An eye opening look into the lives of those who have suffered major internet backlash, So You’ve Been Publically Shamed became an instant favorite.
The book felt eye opening.
We see their “extreme” views as making them less than human; worthy of our scorn, our hatred, and whatever justified violence comes their way.At the time Jon wrote this book we had barely seen the tip of the “us vs them” iceberg that we are faced with today.
Hopefully my next Jon Ronson book will be more satisfying!
What links all these people (and others) is the belief that a 'World Order' of important people meet up and shape all our destinies.
Even so, Ronson's attempts to penetrate these gatherings is itself both funny in its mild incompetence and rather scary.A good book then, very readable, and a real incite into the way that so many of these fringe people are inspired by the same conspiracy paranoia - but not quite Ronson's best.
Travelling light, I bring along one book for the flight in, intending it as a gift for one of these hosts, purchase one or more books for the flight out, and confine myself to reading their books while visiting.Them is from Michael's library, the most peculiarly interesting collection I've ever known to be in human hands.
Thanks to him and decades of friendship, I've become a bit of a lay expert in all of these areas, except, of course, the crossdressing materials which are still too scary to contemplate.Jon Ronsom's Them is a tongue in cheek, rather haphazard overview of a number of diverse conspiracy theorists.
interesting to say the least.It reads like fiction, and the ideas put forward are so ridiculous that you can't help but think that it is, indeed, fiction.First off, the author is a Jew. Not such a big deal until you discover that he hangs out with the Ku Klux Clan, Neo-Nazis, and goes to a Jihad training camp, just to name a few.It is eye opening to see that the people that Ronson writes about aren't serious all the time.
