https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/774032.A_Fan_s_Notes
A Fan's Notes is the odyssey of one man’s unending heartbreak and retreat into an inner world of fantasy and dreams, a retreat, by his own account and language, punctuated by alcoholism and trips to the madhouse; or, put another way, an autobiographical novel about Fredrick Exley’s longtime failure in the years prior to when he finally staked his claim to fame by writing a memoir about his aching, painful life.First off, let me say bellying up to a bar, drinking, smoking, commiserating, cheering for a sports team while watching a game is not me, which is understatement.
Reasons I should have liked this book:»   It’s meant to be open, soul-searching and literary while at the same time appealing to my gender – the coarse one, that is.»   It’s a somewhat fictionalized memoir by a die-hard NY Giants fan.
»   It won the 1968 William Faulkner Foundation Award for notable first novel and was a National Book Award finalist.Reasons I didn’t:»   Its subtitle is A Fictional Memoir, but according to Wikipedia it follows the real events of Exley’s troubled, booze-sodden life pretty much to a tee.
»   Exley’s writing talent has been praised, often by Exley himself, but I found a fair amount of it clunky and overcooked.
Frederick Exley belongs among those champions who after ruining one’s life spends years trying to climb out of shit and for this strenuous endeavour is considered to be a valiant and sagacious hero…He was an incorrigible dreamer, romantic visionary.
He believed the world couldn’t wait to throw its arms around him…I was willfully acting in such a way as to alienate myself.
It is very wearing to be honest, no matter how naïve or misreckoned that honesty is, and continue to be spurned for it.
But Frederick Exley is an honest writer and his truth is full of squalor and pain.
This book is about sports like Macbeth is about witches. Which is to say, it's just a vehicle for the real action, which is all internal. A gorgeous, eloquent song to despair and alcoholism and redemption.
Another reviewer writes, "Exley is basically an east coast Bukowski with the expected enhanced neuroses and over educated self obsession." If that sentence excites you, or if it turns you off, that just about does it in a sense for this one-hit sixties wonder (his other books truly are mediocre).
It was this act that gave me some retroactive sympathy for Exley's disgusting on-page persona, although during the book his blithering and self-loathing seemed subtle enough in congruence with my own I wrote it up to an idea that that is how all American males are.
Then he’ll talk about his childhood and a hundred pages or so later, he gets around to telling about the events that lead up to being committed.My biggest issue with the book is that while Exley, like Bukowski, did have a troubled life filled with a lot of pain, he comes across as an asshole most of the time and that just doesn’t lend itself to feeling very sympathetic towards him.
Page after page, a reader approaches the end of a sentence expecting one phrase and finding another.Here's my favorite sentence from A Fan's Notes (though there are at least nine others I like about as well):By the time of contact it was getting light, very cold, with that glacial, white world spread all about one on the lonely road; and one didn't dare look down in fear of seeing a half-dressed, broken-bra'ed, bedraggled, pimply, snot-nosed, shivery-assed creature feigning her conscience-inducing sleep, trying not to moan, as if indeed a scarcely erect, zipper-scraped, partially raw instrument could induce even tremors, not to mention ecstatic moans (in all truth it occurs to me now that if one girl had, on her parents' night at the Avon, taken me into her bedroom, taken off her clothes, and taken me into bed with her, I would have married her, got a job as a brakeman on the New York Central, raised eleven children, and lived happily ever after on pork chops and Genesee 12-Horse Ale).And no apology follows.
If you don't know who Frederick Exley is -- and I didn't till I found it among Thomas' books (or was it a recommendation from him...?
Frederick Exley, as his friend Jonathan Yardley said, had one brilliant book in him -- and tore himself apart to get it out of himself.
One REAL..., one good book -- and you've paid your debt.
In full.Exley, imo, is paid up....
It is not fear of self-scrutiny which typically causes me to dislike books about a character's dissolution.
True, there are moments where the book sags and other times where it seems that Exley is writing what I should have said in some confrontation.
Second in the way Exley weaves in literary allusions.
The book weaves back and forth through the protagonist's life.
There is humor and self-awareness enough to render the alcoholism not so much an ending but just the drug that it is, to still a mental fatigue as a man fights so hard not to be Prufrock.
I just want to say, from a guy like me, who has never watched a football game all the way through or cared to, who hasn't born the cross of alcoholism or done time on the funny farm, who has never been in an honest-to-god fist fight, who's never had much of anything to recommend his manliness, whose life is not necessarily in shambles, that this life, the life of Fred Exley, is one all peoples should read and recognize as their own.That is to say, I get it.
Exley turns an uncomfortably unflinching gaze on the abyss of depression & madness he passed thru & transforms it into the most breathtakingly beautiful art imaginable in the form of this book, a triumphant testament to one man's resilience and relentless pursuit of the writing craft.
A fictionalized memoir, A Fan's Notes takes us from Exley's childhood in the shadow of a father who was a local hero to his misadventures in advertising, alcoholism, and his multiple trips to the madhouse in some of the most absolutely amazing prose I've ever encountered.
Exley's frankness in confronting his shortcomings and failures would be reason enough to celebrate this book, but his absolute mastery of form and language takes it to the highest possible level.
During the course of reading this book, I discovered that my father, one of my best friends, and my mother all thought it was one of the best books of all time.
If I hadn't discovered this, I probably would have put it down after a hundred pages.
But what a great first hundred pages!
As long as Exley talks about being insane/the New York Giants, this book is a piece of demented genius.
Unfortunately, Exley isn't particularly smart about his many unsuccessful relationships with women, and because these take up a good three chapters - the weakest in the book - long stretches of absolutely rancid misogyny make it hard to slog through the middle.
Holy moly you guys this is hell of bananas good. I accidentally started being in love with my neighbor and so it took me forever to finish but given more normal circumstances I'd've zipped through it like a regular greased kitten. A real roast beef hoagie of a book, slaaaam bangin.
I'm probably falling for the same that people who read Kerouac suffer -- and Exley is of the same imitable Beat cloth -- but I'll accept the punch-drunkeness of this book and give it a high endorsement nonetheless.
Not only did I long for it, I suffered myself the singular notion that fame was an heirloom passed on from my father.""Unlike some men I had never drunk for boldness or charm or wit; I had used alcohol for precisely what it was, a depressant to check the mental exhilaration produced by entended sobriety.""After that unremitting spring of beer, pasta, Tia Maria, and futility, I found my body thirty pounds overweight, my cerebrum as dopey as a eunuch's dong."
A FAN'S NOTES is a very readable coming-of-age novel about hero worship.
The difficulty most contemporary readers have is the object of his hero's worship: Frank Gifford.
Among coming-of-age novels, its closest analogue is probably Plath's THE BELL JAR; both books are part of a 60s-era tradition that depicts electroshock therapy as a metaphor for the social pressure to conform to normality.
How much a reader enjoys the book probably has as much to do with how familiar one is with the conventions of the coming-of-age novel; if you know THE CATCHER IN THE RYE and THE BELL JAR, it's hard to connect with this one emotionally.

Never once did I detect in a saloon, as I had begun to detect in the Village, the dark, brooding silhouette of a man apart, a man caught up and held in awe by the singularity of his vision.In Chicago Exley meets and becomes obsessed with a young (yellow-haired) woman named Bunny Sue Allorgee, who takes him home to spend a weekend with her parents, who live in a scary dystopia:The Allorgees lived in a suburb of a suburb, their particular little suburb being Heritage Heights.
It was my fate, my destiny, my end, to be a fan." In short, he saw himself in Gifford, to the point of actually thinking he was him.
For example, Doctor Pah-nee actually dresses up as Exley, reads "A Fan's Notes" in order to be "in character", so that his patient can have what they both acknowledge he needs- to bring Exley to his father laying in the hospital.
Brock Clarke's interpretation far superior to the source, I fully liked the paired reading of these two novels!
Re-reading it now after thinking about it unbiddenly recently and seeing a funky, weird old 60's mass-marketpaperback in a used bookstore in Amherst this weekend.
I love those old covers, they're so gauche and semi-psychedelic.
I read this during a markedly fallow period in my life when "Exley"'s travails were more than sparkling in recognition.
Moving.
Preparing to sink into many varying writing projects which are and have been for far too long like magic cigarettes, smoke billowing invisibly in my mind's best intentions.
I was quietly and inexplicably and quenchingly moved.
I'd cry, I'd like to cry in fact, but I don't.
exley the narrator (though narrated in the first person by a "character" named fred exley, we learn in the foreward that this isn't entirely autobiographical) tells us early on that even in america, failure is a part of life.
here, the narrator's life is nothing but a series of failures, but his trenchant accounting of them is nothing but a triumph.
exley is a wildly successful practitioner of a sort of alternative alchemy - in this detailing of a wretched life, he turns not bronze, but shit into gold.
The first 100 pages = some of the best writing in history. Or at least some of the best writing about Frank Gifford and what it's like to be a teacher in history.The last 200 pages = what it must have been like to have to sit next to him at a bar. Exhilirating at first, depressing in the end.
It’s such a suffocating pride that even moments of good writing, humor, and intrigue are overwhelmed by it.The most recurring theme is how much Exley hates what America has become in its emptiness and vanity.
As long as people write they’re going to talk about how awful they think the world is and how it’s going to hell in a hand basket.
I don’t think that’s true, as I’m plenty cynical myself.
That goes for the cynics just as much as those people that Exley probably thinks of as “lesser” merely by virtue of the fact that they fit nicely into this world.
To avoid any more eternal suffering (if that's even possible) that I'm already due, I will, in a very vague way explain to you why you should read it; the book will speak it for itself, and ultimately, me and my review.
A friend (a note at a bookstore recommending A Fan's Notes) said of this book, "I felt cheated I have lived 24 years and have just now been introduced to Frederick Exley's A Fan's Notes." I concur.
He also smoked cigarettes and said stuff like, "motherfucker" and "shit" and was a transient and couldn't understand why people had jobs.
It's a little bit too much like being in my own head, the avoidance thereof being one of my primary motivations to read in the first place.
In the end, though, this began to feel like a homework assignment--something I was forcing myself to read.
Behold:"Oh, I had had my enthusiasms, but they were dark, the adoration of the griefs and morbidities men commit to paper in the name of literature, the homage I had paid the whole sickly aristocracy of letters."With sentences like that, how can you not at least give this book a shot?
The book as many paradoxes: funny but sad, intelligent but silly, frustrating but satisfying and compassionate but mean.
Also, the book is very carefully constructed although Exley tries hard to give the appearance of being cavalier-like a teen boy who spends hours mussing up his hair.
The book is reportedly autobiographical but Exley plays with the medium, once telling the reader that a story he has related is false, but more interesting than the sad truth of the incident.
Ultimately, the story is a horrible, but beautiful, tragedy with the publication of the book itself, only a partial vindication.
"For my heart will always be with the drunk, the poet, the prophet, the criminal, the painter, the lunatic, with all whose aims are insulated from the humdrum business of life."
Living in his father's shadow and barely measuring up to the shins.This book was at times so shocking in its raw, grotesque portrayal of reality that I felt like putting it down, or, if it were a movie, turning away -- but as with life I could not.
It was at times so offensive that it caused me to confront those things in myself, rather than blame the author/narrator/protagonist (though I also did.)All in all, in some way this book left its mark on me.Full disclosure, the sports analogies and descriptions of games and technicalities had me in the dark, so I had no choice but to skim.
I really had a hard time getting past the misogyny and the way the protagonist, an author stand-in, treated women and talked about women.
I even read a biography of the writer to try to figure out his appeal to Brock and others, but he seemed like a pretty reprehensible, pathetic human being as a whole.
I guess I can see how his posturing could be appealing to a white guy of a certain class, region, and time period, but that’s not me, and Exley made no efforts to relate to anyone who wasn’t just like him.
When he wasn’t talking to or about women, I liked the sentences.
Unlike me and the protagonist of most every drunken loser epic, though, Exley's Exley is self-aware, so much so that he (Exely the author) did not even feign the distance of writing a book of fiction about someone else.
This might be a book about football, particularly about loving football, micro-particularly about idolizing Frank Gifford.
I wonder if Frank Gifford ever read this book, or did Kathy Lee, or even better, did Regis Philbin, having been longtime co-host with the prize wife of the book's central idol?
I think an audiobook should be made with Regis' mad voice maddeningly voicing the Everymadman sucking up all the air in this book.
Exley presents a maudlin account of his glorified failures, his failure to come to terms with the great drama, the American life.
He saunters from mental asylums to almost every bar which his eyes would have caught a glance, and in the process presents his helplessness to get even with his life with brute honesty and pity.
Exley explores the meaninglessness that the great American dream comes to signify, and he does so with humour when suddenly walking along the description one finds that he has come too far,where it's all but hope, only a dark patch of glue from which there's no escape.There is no use reading this book, neither aesthetical, nor literary.
