https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14026.The_Scarlet_Gang_of_Asakusa
Asakusa had perhaps been for him (Kawabata) as it was for me – a place that allowed anonymity, freedom, where life flowed on no matter what, where you could pick up pleasure, and where small rooms with paper flowers were rented by the hour.
The human flow aggressive in survival and passionate in expression pulsates throughout my cerebral silence bringing Asakusa alive within the spiritless walls of my room; an absurd persuasion enticing me to seize the floating moon amid the nimble watery ripples.
Kawabata's The Scarlet Gang of Asakusa is supposed to be a work of "modernism" and "New Perceptionist" blah blah.
Donald Richie (I've some of his books at home to read and I'm pretty psyched) wrote an awesome foreward about the history of Asakusa, Kawabata as a young student and budding new school thinker.
I feel Kawabata did more here than make strokes in written history about that short wick place.
It's just knowing people and feeling something.
(Damn, where was it in this book that Japanese didn't dress up in costumes in Ginza but it was becoming common in Asakusa?
For me, the most fascinating area of Tokyo is Asakusa.
Yasunari Kawabara in his novel "The Scarlet Gang of Asakusa" captures the essence of the place, but with sketch like descriptions of women, places and desires.
Originally written as a newspaper column or serial, it reads like a feverish dream, and in essence it reminds me of John Dos Passos' "The U.S. Trilogy" in that it captures moments by signage, impressions, and the sensual aspect of the location that is Asakusa.
Also the book is illustrated by the original images that were in the Japanese edition.
1920s Tokyo was really something, and that "it" quality happened in Asakusa.
This novel is distinctly different from what Kawabata would go on to write.
It's very modern in that it avoids plot and the real character of this novel is Asakusa.
More than any of the humans followed in the novel, more even than the narrator, what this novel is about is Asakusa.It's a much more playful novel than what would bring him international fame and recognition, but I quite liked it.
It feels distinctly western while his later novels are much more japanese in style and content.He built Asakusa and it comes alive on every page.
một cuốn sách thử nghiệm giai đoạn còn trẻ của Kawabata, học theo chủ nghĩa hiện đại, cụ thể là Joyce và Ulysses.
phá vỡ cốt truyện, trình tự tuyến tính về thời gian, nhập nhòe giữa hư cấu và phi hư cấu, chính vì thế rất khó đọc và rất khó theo dõi vì tất cả trở thành phân mảnh.
rất may là Kawabata đã khôn mà vứt bỏ kiểu học Tây này để quay về lối viết truyền thống và chỉ tích hợp một vài yếu tố Tây vào mà thôi.
nói chung là thú vị vì hiểu thêm về tác giả này.
For any westerner living in Tokyo, this novel is incredibly interesting for the way it captures 1929-1930 Asakusa.
It shows the (relatively) innocent underbelly of society through a cast of quirky and likable characters.
The time line's a mess, there are a million characters and connections to keep track of, the narrator may or may not have been the author and/or the antagonist, it's not always immediately clear who's speaking, etc.
With the choppy narrative and quick pace, we can almost feel what life for these characters must have been like.
I can't imagine a more conventional style capturing this in quite the same way.
Termino una novela que no parece de Kawabata y que, aún así, es tan Kawabata como lo Bello y Lo Triste o el Maestro de Go. Maravillosa novela sobre la ciudad, novela de la ciudad y de las prácticas urbanas. Bellísimo ejercicio etnográfico, un ejemplo a seguir. 5/5
Very difficult to follow & for mine a curio of Kawabata’s work. You can see the themes in his later work appearing, but the mixed voices, narrative style & cast of 100’s don’t make for an easy read. Worthwhile to explore Kawabata’s oeuvre but not one I’d get people to start with.
(This book, actually)"Scarlet Gang" is one of those books where I try and try to elucidate why it's so goddamn good and I just sit here shaking my head, wondering what to say and not say.
And it's all handed to you in a back alley where girls play pianos and red laundry bleeds down onto the gravel, with all its full luster and weird urban eroticism.A book many might hate for its lack of real, cohesive storylines, but it's there, you just have to think and feel a little deeper than you normally would.
Colpa della sinossi.
Letta la sinossi ho pensato: ecco, finalmente “l’orientale” che fa per me.
Non è andata così.
Non sono riuscita a sprofondare nel libro.
O meglio l'ho fatto a tratti per rincorrere funamboli, attori, ballerine, prostitute, vagabondi perché mi raccontassero le loro storie.
Ho ascoltato, a volte ammaliata, altre annoiata.
Caro Kawabata, premio Nobel per la letteratura 1968, non volermene.
Non so se m’è piaciuto questo viaggio.
Ho provato varie volte il desiderio di interromperlo.
Lo dico con onestà, perché è giusto così.
Sono io ad avere un problema con gli scrittori orientali in generale.
I first encountered Kawabata through the Tokyo section - more a glorified literature course than anything comprehensive, we spent the vast majority of the semester reading about Tokyo's carnival district, Asakusa.
(I say carnival as opposed to entertainment because the primary allure of the neighborhood was carnal in nature, and the atmosphere as described in Kawabata's novel decidedly festive and bacchanalian.) While the style of this particular novel didn't resonate with me, the subject matter so intrigued me that I made a point to visit it when I was in Japan last summer.

A self-consciously modern novel about Tokyo's Asakusa district in interwar Japan. The plot alternates between frenetic activity and long descriptive passages of Asakusa and its inhabitants--juvenile gang members, prostitutes, beggars, actresses and revue dancers, famous writers--all conveyed in Kawabata's strong, clear prose.I especially enjoyed Kawabata's explorations of gender, which feel surprisingly fresh even after eighty years.
Kawabata traça um perfil de Asakusa, um distrito de Tóquio, a partir de uma mistura peculiar de ficção e não-ficção.
É interessante acompanhar a movimentação de Asakusa em seu período áureo (nos anos 20/30), quando era o principal lugar de entretenimento em Tóquio (após ser bombardeado na Segunda Guerra, outros lugares da cidade ultrapassaram Asakusa como destinos para diversão).
Como os textos compilados aqui foram originalmente publicados de forma episódica para um jornal, são bastante fragmentados e bem diferentes dos outros textos do autor.
Senti falta de ter um fio narrativo condutor mais forte, mas ainda assim Kawabata traça retratos magníficos dos mendigos, prostitutas e gangues do bairro.
Ha sido una lectura un poco extraña.
El retrato de Asakusa no me ha llegado del todo, o no como yo esperaba.
No sé, quizá no la he leído en el mejor momento, pero no me ha impresionado, y esperaba que fuera al contrario.
Sin embargo Kawabata escribe muy bien pese a que se habrán perdido muchos matices al ser una traducción de otra traducción (en este caso, del inglés).
Menos mal que Tusquets, sello que también pertenece a Planeta, sí dispone de traductores para el japones que se ocupan de autores como Murakami y Yoshimoto.
Pero es una decisión poco acertada, a mi parecer.
Seguramente habrá quien dice que "esto no parece Kawabata".
Él mismo condenó esta novela, su primer folletín en publicarse, como una pieza secundaria.
Pero ¿quién dice que un autor debe ser uno, mismo y siempre el mismo?
Hay mucho más Kawabata aquí de lo que podríamos soportar si pensáramos que nunca existió un Kawabata vanguardista; tengamos en cuenta esta historia fue un suceso y un amplio éxito entre los mismos habitantes del 'distrito rojo' de Tokio (y no precisamente entre la élite literaria, que de todas maneras la recibió con candor).
Dejando cuestiones como su popularidad o la validez de sus artefactos textuales de lado, esta novela es una delicia y, sinceramente, da gusto leerla porque da la sensación de estar viva ¿qué más le podríamos pedir?
a whir of naughty nightlife in the 20s. is this the same kawabata who gave us the sound of the mountain? barely. the genius is there, but using a modernist technique. i'm really glad kawabata abandoned modernism after this. i like him when he goes slower and takes his time.it was like reading the new yorker without all the stuckuptitude. fashion forward.
Por ello, encontrarme con “La pandilla de Asakusa” (Seix Barral) ha sido una grata sorpresa. Texto experimental, fruto de la admiración y curiosidad de Kawabata por el modernismo, la historia que sobre Asakusa y Seguir leyendo
Not what I was expecting. I don't know what I was expecting, but this wasn't it. More fun, for one thing.
Yasunari Kawabata , on his birthday June 11 Tragedies of loneliness and sadness, empty desires and uncommunicable loves, dangerous illusions and madness; yet written with voluptuous, gorgeous language, like refined and spare haiku prose-poems; the works of Yasunari Kawabata are a last stand of meaning and elegance in a world robbed of its significance.
Of his Great Books there are many; Snow Country, The Scarlet Gang of Asakusa, The Old Capitol, Thousand Cranes, The Master of Go, Beauty and Sadness, and Dandelions.
Beauty and Sadness, a meditation on aesthetics and love, can be read as a coda on his works and presents his philosophy in the clearest of terms.
As is often the case with translated fiction, and especially from Japanese, this book left me frustrated because neither the publisher nor the translator bothered to put it in context or provide enough notes to illuminate the myriad allusions embedded in the text.
Roughly speaking, the first half revolves around a young girl called Yumiko and her suicide onboard a barge on the river Sumida.
After the climax of Yumiko's theatrical suicide, the author reverts to a lighter style and concentrates on a variety of more or less colorful characters in the underworld of Asakusa.
Was her suicide attempt faked?
Qui tutto viene alla luce così com'è, senza artifici.
E' una grande corrente in cui si mescolano alla rinfusa tutte le classi e le razze.
E' una corrente di insondabile profondità che fluisce senza posa, giorno e notte.
E' un crogiolo che fonde di continuo le vecchie cose e dà loro nuova forma.(pagina 29 - Qui Kawabata cita Soeda Azenbo)Il fischietto del vigile urbano, la campanella dello strillone, il clangore delle catene delle gru, il motore dei battelli a vapore, i geta che pestano l'asfalto, l'eco delle automobili e dei tram, l'armonica di questa ragazza, la campana del tram, il suono della porta dell'ascensore, clacson di automobili, rumori di sottofondo in lontananza...
Mi abbandono a quell'onda si suoni, come se fosse una ninna nanna.(pagina 89)
El libro que voy a reseñar a continuación, La pandilla de Asakusa, es un buen ejemplo de cómo a veces es difícil captar todos los matices de una narración de una cultura distinta.
De hecho a mitad del libro ya era consciente de que iba a perderme muchos detalles que el premio Nobel nipón iba plantando en cada línea.
No obstante enseguida puedes darte cuenta de que es una buena obra, pues a pesar de que no comprendes todo continúas adelante.Es una novela que capta el ambiente de los burdeles, los teatros, los artistas, los vagabundos y los cines destartalados de un barrrio que representaba para Tokio lo que Montmartre representaba en París.Me he quedado con la sensación de que es un buen libro que seguramente gane muchísimos enteros con una segunda lectura.
Es de esos libros que hace falta leer dos veces.
La primera vez es difícil, la narración es liosa, con muchos cambios de punto de vista, historias y personajes; y es que esto es una oda al barrio de Asakusa y sus gentes.
El hecho es que no terminé de adaptarme al estilo hasta que llevaba dos tercios del libro, a partir de entonces todo fue simplemente genial.
Ahora sé que si me lo leo de nuevo lo voy a disfrutar más porque ya le he pillado el ‘tranquillo’.Por cierto, tanto el prólogo y el epílogo de Donald Richie son buenísimos y ayudan mucho a situarse en la época y el lugar.
lo que más me gustó fue la forma sutil del autor para mostrar situaciones muy crudas, sin quitarles fuerza.
Kawabata's attempt at a Western Modernist style. It was too "stream of consciousness" for me, and, therefore, seemed to go nowhere. There just seems to be no point to any of the narration.
Scrittura scomposta, tipica della corrente a cui appartiene, ma per quanto ne abbia apprezzato le descrizioni e alcuni personaggi, non è il mio genere
Quizás nunca fue de esa manera, pero ahora, destruida, fijada en las páginas de aquel libro, ya nunca más podrá ser otra cosa.
Para alguien con los años del escritor en aquel tiempo, no podía ser más que la promesa de algo.
Con deleite, va recogiendo historias, lugares, espacios, va construyendo para nosotros (como si intuyera que todo estaba condenado a desaparecer, una vez más) todo el distrito.
Lo sólido y lo etéreo, lo concreto y lo vago.Kawabata es consciente de que con la destrucción de aquello que está construido (y solo es necesario el paso del tiempo para ello), no quedarán ruinas, sino un vacío que no podrá ser llenado, tan solo imaginado.
Like nothing else Kawabata has written, historically interesting yet really fragmented. I enjoyed this book though I am not sure how to rate it ?
With equal parts disdain, unfettered love, lamentations and impartial observations, Kawabata's characters act as mouthpiece for his own historical knowledge, and personal affections and distaste.The real beauty of this story, however, lies with where Kawabata was when he wrote it.
You can feel Kawabata's heart breaking sentence by sentence.Truly remarkable work.
Fans of Kawabata will find his most personal work.This is definitely not his most refined work (Kawabata himself would later turn his back on his early modernist leanings and this story itself—much like Aldous Huxley's Brave New World—with Asakusa Matsuri).
