https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/456.Leviathan
It was one of those cryptic, two-paragraph stories they bury in the middle of the paper, but I happened to catch it in The New York Times while I was eating lunch that afternoon.
Almost inevitably, I began to think about Benjamin Sachs....Immensely intriguing book.Great writing.I'm a fan of Paul Auster.
Masterful, virtuoso.This is the story outline:The explosion that detonates the narrative of Paul Auster's remarkable novel also ends the life of its hero, Benjamin Sachs, and bring two FBI agents to the house of his oldest friend, the writer Peter Aaron.
—LeviathanThrough his own investigations, the narrator attempts to answer questions as to who the man was who blew himself up, why he was found with a homemade bomb, and what circumstances brought him to a violent end.عنوانها: هیولای دریایی؛ هیولا؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: ماه نوامبر سال 2005 میلادیعنوان: هیولای دریایی؛ نویسنده: پل آستر (اوستر)؛ مترجم: ماندانا مشایخی؛ تهران، انتشارات ماهی؛ 1383؛ در 278 ص؛ شابک: 9789647948388؛ چاپ دوم 1387؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان امریکایی - قرن 20 معنوان: هیولا؛ نویسنده: پل آستر (اوستر)؛ مترجم: خجسته کیهان؛ تهران، افق؛ 1383؛ در 335 ص؛ چاپ دیگر: 1391؛ شابک: 9789643698836؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان امریکایی - سده 20 معنوان اصلی رمان « لویاتان » است.
PAUL AUSTER: Fucking amazing, Don. Can you guys grab hold of the bungee cable?Don looks at Siri and Lydia.DON DELILLO: No.TATTOOED EX-NEW ZEALAND ALL BLACK: It’s right, I’ll pull him up.LYDIA DAVIS: I don’t suppose you could leave him hanging a bit longer?DON DELILLO: My turn next.Paul Auster climbs back over the railing, the top two buttons of his Polo shirt undone and not a hair out of place.SIRI HUSTVEDT (resuming her grip on Paul Auster, this time front on): Oh, Paul, I think it’s love at first sight.
He goes through all the details, all the meetings, all the choices that have been made and which have led to that conclusion.
A little as if life was a gigantic spider's web, and we always have the choice between several options that lead us to a definite "exit", but which could have been quite different if the choices made had been different.A book presented as a kind of thriller at the beginning, but that is not finally a thriller.
It's just the story of a guy who made choices, and the outcome that goes with it.Lisbon Book-Fair 2016.
I can't remember the last time I read a book that was so emotionally draining as Paul Auster's Leviathan.
That's a feat to behold.Auster's books are some of the most finely crafted works I have ever had the pleasure of reading.
In that case, screw him for not having to work hard when the rest of us do.But Leviathan isn't just about writing despite its revolving around two writers.
The first two thirds of the book are development of character, and the last third is a revolving door of switch-arounds of those characters that spin them, and their worlds, out of control.That, of course, is the depressing part--seeing the people you've come to love like family (how couldn't you, as much as Auster tells you about them?) lose themselves completely.
Knowing such things illuminates Auster’s reasoning behind titling his book as such.In this tale, Peter Aaron’s friend, Ben Sachs-a once-promising author-accidentally blows himself up along a rural road using a homemade bomb.
Though it’d been years since Peter had communicated with his best-friend, he takes it upon himself to tell the story of how Ben had come to such an alarming and unusual end.
Since Sachs had been working on an abandoned novel called Leviathan, Peter (and Auster) calls his book the same.
Peter Aaron – o narrador - ou Paul Auster propõe-se a escrever ou a descrever a vida de Benjamin Sachs com recurso às memórias de uma genuína amizade com quinze anos, muitas das vezes intermitente e intervalada por ausências, ora curtas ora prolongadas, associando os familiares, os amigos e os amantes, que surgem nas suas vidas e que mudaram os seus destinos, com maior ou menor complexidade ou obscuridade.
Tenho passado toda a minha vida de adulto a escrever histórias, a colocar pessoas imaginárias em situações inesperadas e muitas vezes improváveis, mas verdade é que nunca nenhuma das minhas personagens passou por uma situação tão improvável (…).
Πάλι τα ίδια Paul; Πάλι αριστοτεχνικά δομημένη πλοκή; Πάλι εκπληκτική σκιαγράφηση χαρακτήρων; Πάλι μέγιστη απόλαυση κατά την ανάγνωση κάθε σελίδας;Ποιοι στ' αλήθεια είμαστε. Ποιοι νομίζουμε ότι είμαστε. Ποιοι νομίζουν οι άλλοι ότι είμαστε. Οι πράξεις μας. Τα κίνητρα των πράξεων μας. Οι επιπτώσεις τους στον εαυτό μας και τους άλλους.Πάντως Paul, μεταξύ μας, νομίζω ότι είσαι ένας πολύ μεγάλος συγγραφέας.
I know, for a fact that I liked this book but as I slowly got deeper and deeper into Auster's world or rather his characters and the philosophy of the characters it slowly dawned on me that I felt a sort of special connection with this book that I couldn't yet explain to myself.
I don't know how to make sense of this to anyone else or explain how it makes me feel but I just really enjoyed the characters in this book and how deeply Auster explored them and the widths of human nature and behavior.
"Six days ago, a man blew himself up by the side of a road in Wisconsin."  Assim começa este Leviathan. A história é contada na primeira pessoa por Peter Aaron, um escritor, que, ao tomar conhecimento daquela notícia, imediatamente percebe que ela diz respeito ao seu melhor amigo: o também escritor Benjamin Sachs, personagem central deste romance. Começando por nos revelar um desfecho, o autor estrutura a narrativa de modo a manter o interesse do leitor relativamente aos acontecimentos e às mot
A história é contada na primeira pessoa por Peter Aaron, um escritor, que, ao tomar conhecimento daquela notícia, imediatamente percebe que ela diz respeito ao seu melhor amigo: o também escritor Benjamin Sachs, personagem central deste romance.
Começando por nos revelar um desfecho, o autor estrutura a narrativa de modo a manter o interesse do leitor relativamente aos acontecimentos e às motivações que concorreram para esse desfecho.
E este Leviathan poderá não ser uma obra-prima, mas é um daqueles livros que nos faz estar de bem com a leitura.
Големият Пол Остър пак е написал голям роман.
Пак прекрасният стил на Пол Остър и неговият простичък начин да ти каже много важни неща с малко думи, които обаче се запечатват.
Той е от онези автори, които, според мен, са най-добрите - не просто ти нашепват мъдрости, а правят така, че само да ги извлечеш чрез взаимоотношенията на героите му, които са истински хора, в една история, в която се откриваш - себе си или познати, живееш сам и то много, много интересно.Пол Остър е учебник.
И Пол Остър ми е завинаги.
ظاهرا گاهی به مشوش بودن این داستان همچون یک ایراد نگاه کرده اند، اما حداقل برای من نفس این تشویش، نسبت به نظم تصنعی، واقعیت زندگی رو بیشتر بیان می کنه - اون هم در زندگی امروزی.
اون چیزی که من در قیاس با مهسا ملک مرزبان - مترجم دیگه ی بعضی کارای استر - در خجسته کیهان ستایش می کنم تلاشش برای حداقل کردن سانسورها است - اگه با تغییر یک کلمه بشه جمله رو چاپ کرد اینکارو می کنه
Video reviewA veritable dream if you are a fan of mysterious first-person narratives about Terrible Things that Must Be Told before Something Bad Happens. You know - Call of Cthulhu to The Name of the Rose. Not that the plot is pointless - it is thrilling, and peopled with interesting characters - but this is truly more for Forbidden Book and metafictional kids.
Paul Auster is an author I feel I discovered at exactly the right time.
It isn't that I was particularly young when I started reading Auster - I first read one of his novels three years ago - but somehow I feel that I came to his writing exactly when I should have; or maybe it's just so 'me' that I'd have liked it just the same whether I'd been 15 or 50.
Review to follow.
La historia que nos cuenta Paul Auster en ‘Leviatán’ (Leviathan, 1992), empieza por el final.
Es entonces cuando Peter Aaron, también escritor y alter ego del propio Auster, decide narrarnos la historia de su amigo Sachs, y de cómo ha llegado hasta esta situación.Lo principal de la trama son sus personajes, las relaciones que se establecen entre ellos, los cambios y circunstancias por los que van pasando.
Se trata de un elenco de personajes complejo, que Auster retrata perfectamente.En esta relectura de ‘Leviatán’, he disfrutado de más detalles y matices que no había percibido la primera vez.
Gran novela de Auster.
Για μία ακόμη φορά εξαιρετικός Auster...Το βιβλίο διαβάζεται εύκολα, η πλοκή είναι ενδιαφέρουσα, αλλά το καλύτερο στοιχείο είναι οι χαρακτήρες. Από τους 2 συγγραφείς πρωταγωνιστές, μέχρι και τα δευτερεύοντα πρόσωπα, τα οποία ωστόσο παίζουν εξαιρετικά σημαντικό ρόλο.Η ουσία του έργου έγκειται στο πως κάποια εντελώς τυχαία γεγονότα που συμβαίνουν, μας αλλάζουν μια για πάντα και το πως αντιμετωπίζουμε και εμείς οι ίδιοι, αλλά και οι κοντινοί μας άνθρωποι αυτή την αλλαγή.
That's my kind of book! Beautifully given story of a man's pursuit of identity. Loved it more than I could ever love The New York Trilogy or Invisible (these are the only Paul Auster books I have read)...perhaps, it has to do with the fact that I read the English edition...perhaps, he is one of those writers I enjoy reading in English, but never in Greek!
Κορυφαίος Auster. Το τέταρτο 5άρι που του βάζω μετά την Τριλογία, τον Αόρατο και το Man in the Dark. Και το κέρδισε πολύ άνετα.
Y decide contar la historia, todo lo que sabe para que la verdad vea la luz si es que eso sucede.
Entonces sabemos el final pero no sabemos el camino, el cual es la verdadera novela, la construcción perfecta de personajes, situaciones hacen de esta una novela muy entretenida, salvo por un giro drástico que es mal aprovechado y vuelve muy poco creíble la motivación de los actos subsiguientes y la razón de haber llegado a ese momento con una bomba casera.
Una pena aunque de todas formas sea por momentos una lectura brillante y entretenida.

Sólo me faltaba un capítulo para terminar pero no he podido continuar. Lo he intentado muchas veces con este autor pero si exceptuamos la Trilogía de Nueva York y a ratos Invisible y el Libro de las ilusiones todo lo demás me ha resultado falso, superficial, incluso cursi. Siempre recordaré Leviatán como el libro que me hizo decidir no volver a leer nada más de Paul Auster.
Leviathan focuses on the interior world of a writer, Benjamin Sachs, as told by his best friend Peter Aaron (also a writer). The tale is dark, twisty and fascinating. I was in the mood for a dose of Auster and the novel delivered.
Повествованието се води от първо лице, това на Питър, който след като разбира, че непознат мъж се е взривил край магистрала в Уисконсин, започва да разказва историята на превръщането си в писател.
В романа си Пол Остър размишлява кой е мигът, в който писателят става писател и кои са моментите, които преобръщат съзнанието на пишещия.
В книгата си американецът разглежда физическото (буквално) и психическото пропадане на един писател, нищейки желанието за самоунищожение на по-чувствителните хора и неудовлетворението им от околния свят.На корицата на „Левиатан“ е Статуята на свободата, безспорен символ на Америка, отъждествяваща в себе си за целия свят думи като свобода, демокрация и равноправие.
این سومین کتابی ِ که از پل استر می خوندم... خیلی عالی شروع شده و با توجه به تجربهای که از خوندن آثار پل استر بدست آوردم کافیه طاقت آورد تا صفحات 70 اینا و بعد از اون به هیچ وجه نمیشه دیگه کتاب رو بست. به حدی مهیج میشه که گذر زمان رو نمیشه اصلا متوجه شد... به نظرم پل استر خیلی عالی تونسته تمام شخصیتها رو بهم ربط بده و خیلی زیبا موقعیتهای پیچیده رو توصیف کرده...
این سومین کتابی ِ که از پل استر می خوندم... خیلی عالی شروع شده و با توجه به تجربه‌ای که از خوندن آثار پل استر بدست آوردم کافیه طاقت آورد تا صفحات 70 اینا و بعد از اون به هیچ وجه نمیشه دیگه کتاب رو بست. به حدی مهیج میشه که گذر زمان رو نمیشه اصلا متوجه شد... به نظرم پل استر خیلی عالی تونسته تمام شخصیت‌ها رو بهم ربط بده و خیلی زیبا موقعیت‌های پیچیده رو توصیف کرده...
but it is at least purpose?...3) this reaction to the void is what has always drawn me to read him again, starting with the twice-read ‘the new york trilogy’, in which the narrator adopts various disguises but truly becomes a sort of literary private investigator who is summoned by mistaken identity and, in a postmodern way, must inevitably fail to solve the case of language, of trauma, despite certain work and certain accidents that could help him.
Cuando te metes entre pecho y espalda una buena cantidad de libros de este señor en poco tiempo comienzas a ver patrones, personajes y temas recurrentes. En este libro están todos los que abraza y abrazará el señor Auster. Un muy buen retrato coral de una sociedad que ha perdido su brújula.
สนุก ชวนติดตาม ปมปัญหาคอยๆ ขยายตัวออกอยางนิมนวลตัวละครแตละตัวเมือถูกเอยถึง กแสดงใหเหนถึงจิตใจของตัวละคร คิด วิเคราะห บางตัวลึกซึงเกินกวาเราจะเขาใจวาอะไรคือเหตุผลและแรงจูงใจในการกระทำของตัวละคร
สนุก ชวนติดตาม ปมปัญหาค่อยๆ ขยายตัวออกอย่างนิ่มนวลตัวละครแต่ละตัวเมื่อถูกเอ่ยถึง ก็แสดงให้เห็นถึงจิตใจของตัวละคร คิด วิเคราะห์ บางตัวลึกซึ้งเกินกว่าเราจะเข้าใจว่าอะไรคือเหตุผลและแรงจูงใจในการกระทำของตัวละคร
Relationships, a thriller, political comment (written 20 years ago and warning of US decay) and a very lovely twist at the end.AND finally I was up at 5am to catch the 7am to Sydney and came back at 10pm but had to update this.I would NOT recommend this as the first Auster, but I'm addicted now....
Dear Paul....,It's no What I Loved but for originality and writing it completely satisfies.
(If you insist on complete plot perfection and don't like coincidence then give it a miss.)Sorry- had to fix a couple of typos, most notably NOT the first Auster to cut your teeth on - so far that would be Brooklyn Follies
Is the narrator Peter Aaron the novelist Paul Auster and is it important to the story?
The book talks a great deal about identity and stories and whether Aaron's recreation of Sachs' life is true and how far does truth go when told by another in a memoir.
Is Aaron a reliable reporter of his friend's motivations and life?
Do I need to read Hobbes Leviathan to find out?
Other Auster books I liked better were Moon Palace, City of Glass.Favorite quote: Books are born out of ignorance and if they go on living after they are written, it's only to the degree that they cannot be understood.
Paul Auster falha, uma vez mais, em entrar para a lista dos meus autores preferidos. Uma vez mais, não consegui entusiasmar-me com esta história e tudo o que nela acontece acabou por me ser um bocado indiferente. Nem as personagens me conseguiram cativar.Auster até pode ser um autor bastante interessante mas, depois de quatro livros lidos dele, acho que já posso dizer que não é para mim.
Es una lectura muy amena y ocasiones me parece que es una obra brillante.
Y no es precisamente por la temática o por el contenido de la misma, sino por la forma de contarlas.
Creo que la forma que tiene de entender la ficción está muy alejada de la mía y eso hace que a veces me haga pensar que estoy leyendo muy malo, una especie de libelo.
Supongo que es una impresión errónea, puesto que en otras ocasiones soy capaz de discernir la calidad de la lectura que propone pero, insisto, siempre me deja un poco frío.
Un amigo me dijo hace tiempo que Paul Auster hacía las historias más simples del mundo y que de ahí su éxito.
Este es el segundo libro suyo que devoro y no estoy de acuerdo.
Creo que en este en concreto, su gran mérito es crear una historia muy compleja (más incluso en la creación de personajes que en situaciones) y hacer que parezca sencilla.
Crear unos personajes tan peculiares, hacerlos creíbles, forzar situaciones para describirnos sus vidas hacia un rumbo ya anunciado pero bastante inexplicable pasadas 100 páginas, no es nada fácil.Me ha gustado mucho y me ha dejado con ganas de más Paul Auster.
Libro difícil de clasificar. Pero entendamos que una clasificación para esta historia es innecesaria y , tal vez, absurda. La vida de Benjamin Sachs es fascinante, la vida de Peter Aaron es fascinante y los detalles maravillosos de cada uno de los personajes es fascinante. Una novela llena de humor, de misterio, de absurdos y de relaciones entre la literatura y su papel en la vida social. Grande Auster, ¡enorme!
Esta es la cuarta novela que leo de Paul Auster y para mí queda en un segundo nivel junto a 'La trilogía de Nueva York'.
Al menos esta es mi visión a día de hoy acerca de su obra.Pero en cualquier caso en 'Leviatán' también están las constantes habituales de su estilo y es una novela que no defraudará a sus seguidores.
en definitiva ese universo tan metareferencial que se le da tan bien y que es un sello inconfundible del de Nueva Jersey.Me gustaría aprovechar también esta reseña para reivindicar un poco la figura de Paul Auster o al menos la importancia que ha tenido y tiene en mi recorrido literario.
I do remember reading an advance copy of this that I pulled off the shelves of the publisher I worked for at the time.
By chance, the day I placed it back on the shelf, the publisher gave it & that Sun & Moon Press book The Art of Hunger to one of the staff members to review.
I read it because I knew I was going to have to be dealing with Auster for the press very soon to that day, and I liked what I had read at that point a whole lot.
One of those books that made me live through it the entire time I was reading it.
He knows he is just buying some time, but for him , however small that time is, he has something important to do before the man's identity is out in the open."It's not that I want to defend what he did, but since he is no longer in a position to defend himself, the least I can do is explain who he was and give the true story of how he happened to be on that road in northern Wisconsin."What follows is a brilliant narration of Paul's friendship with Sachs.
I imagine people generally mean that his work is an interesting, literary variation on the sorts of tight, complex narratives typical of crime fiction.
But I wonder if it might not be better to say he uses devices of postmodernism in order todo what popular trade press authors do--write what Naipaul disparagingly called "puzzles." I can't imagine a reason for reading another of his books.
Had to read it for a book club I go, but in all honesty, I couldn't get into the book. Slow, tedious, uninteresting. Didn't enjoy the prose or the characters.Ended up flipping pages and finally stoppes reading almost at half the book.Definitely, not for me.
เปนภาพชีวิตแสดงทีมา จากปัญญาชนใฝสันติ ทีมุงสูการเปนนักกอวินาศกรรม สนุกตรงการประกอบสรางจากชินสวนตางๆ ทีประกอบเปนชีวิตมีเลือดเนือจิตใจของนักเขียน ดวยบุคลิกทีเปียมเสนห รางสูงใหญ แตงตัวไมเปน ไวเครารกเรือ และเขียนนิยายอันทะเยอทะยานประกอบกันเหตุการณในชีวิตทีเปนความโกลาหลบังเอิญอยางวิปลาส อยางที มิลาน คุนเดอรา เขียนถึงในเลม อมตะหนังสือบอกเรากลายๆ วา ฝายซายมีจุดจบแบบนีแหละ ไมวินาสดวยเรืองเซกสและครอบครัว กวินาสดวยการลงเอยดวยการทำลายตัวเอง.. ฝายซายไมมีวันชนะ เพราะทันทีทีชนะเขาจะกลายเปนขวา
เป็นภาพชีวิตแสดงที่มา จากปัญญาชนใฝ่สันติ ที่มุ่งสู่การเป็นนักก่อวินาศกรรม สนุกตรงการประกอบสร้างจากชิ้นส่วนต่างๆ ที่ประกอบเป็นชีวิตมีเลือดเนื้อจิตใจของนักเขียน ด้วยบุคลิกที่เปี่ยมเสน่ห์ ร่างสูงใหญ่ แต่งตัวไม่เป็น ไว้เครารกเรื้อ และเขียนนิยายอันทะเยอทะยานประกอบกันเหตุการณ์ในชีวิตที่เป็นความโกลาหลบังเอิญอย่างวิปลาส อย่างที่ มิลาน คุนเดอรา เขียนถึงในเล่ม อมตะหนังสือบอกเรากลายๆ ว่า ฝ่ายซ้ายมีจุดจบแบบนี้แหละ ไม่วินาสด้วยเรื่องเซ็กส์และครอบครัว ก็วินาสด้วยการลงเอยด้วยการทำลายตัวเอง.. ฝ่ายซ้ายไม่มีวันชนะ เพราะทันทีที่ชนะเขาจะกลายเป็นขวา
I just love Paul Auster. And to think, I discovered him in the Denver airport, when I needed a book to read on the next leg of a flight.Auster’s novels are like Matryoshka dolls, & are best read in as few sittings as possible. He casts a spell, & you don’t want to break it.Here, he tells the unraveling of a man from novelist & husband to roaming terrorist, from his best friend’s perspective over 20 years. You can’t put it down. So go pick it up.
Opening lines:'Six days ago, a man blew himself up by the side of a road in northern Wisconsin . . .' This was my 1st book written by Paul Auster and I really liked it.
No logro conectar ni con el estilo del autor ni con ninguno de sus personajes, todo parece demasiado construído, excesivo, superficial.
Todo tiene que conectarse por producto de la casualidad y resulta cansino soportar semejante rompecabezas de improbabilidades.
Tal vez vuelva a intentarlo con otra de sus obras pero no será pronto.
(view spoiler)[>Sachs estaba realmente mal de la cabeza, inspirarse en el tipo que mató a un muchacho a sangre fría sin razón alguna para tomar la decisión de hacer algo en nombre de la libertad y la democracia, no tiene sentido.
След мистериозното изчезване на Сакс не остават никакви дири, ако не се брои ръкописът на неговия роман, озаглавен „Левиатан“:Колкото повече напредва книгата, толкова по-хаотична става – пълна с непредсказуеми асоциации и отклонения, белязана от все по-бързо променящ се тон на наратива – и така се стига до един момент, в който имаш усещането, че всичко започва да левитира, да се вдига тежко-тежко от земята като гигантски метеорологически балон.
Тъкмо в „Левиатан“ е запечатана най-важната среща в живота на писателя – тази със съпругата му Сири Хуствет, не по-малко почитана от него като романист.
La primera novela que leí de Paul Auster, conseguida por casualidad pues había escuchado su nombre en una recomendación pero no recordaba el título (que era "El Palacio de la Luna").
La historia me pareció sencilla al principio: un escritor confesando los secretos de la enigmática vida de su mejor amigo, el mismo que acababa de estallar en pedazos en medio de un parque.
Sin embargo, fue cuando Auster empezó a desarrollar sus personajes que empecé a preocuparme por ellos y a sentirme cercana a los mismos.
Magnifica novela de historias cruzadas en un escenario totalmente verosímil pero con una unión casi fantasiosa.
