https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7346.The_Book_of_Lost_Tales_Part_Two
While it always remained the case that Tolkien envisioned his Middle-Earth stories to be tales about the earliest, unknown histories of our own world as opposed to stories set on some completely alien fantasy world, the two Book of Lost Tales volumes really point out just how strongly Tolkien initially envisioned this link to be.
Interestingly in some early versions of the tale as presented here Eärendel is sometimes either unable to make his way to Valinor or finds that his journey there proved unnecessary and ultimately this is another case where Tolkien’s later development of the tale proved to be more satisfying than what we initially find, but it is still an intriguing (and more importantly a fuller) glimpse into what would otherwise be little more than some bare bones references in later works.
Finished at last! While I'm Tolkien/Middle Earth enthusiast, and this book is generally pretty insightful about the creation and mythology of the Elder Days, I found it a bit of a slog, honestly.However, this book is (almost) redeeemed by the bits on the Fall of Gondolin (which is pretty compelling stuff!) and the Nauglarung (Necklace of the Dwarves.)I'm hoping my enthusiam for the series stays high, overall; I'm diving right into Book 3 ,but if that's a slog, too, a break may be in order after that.
The gold turns the heart to greed, lust and violence and works in the people to tragic ends (like Sauron’s ring).The Tale of Earendale:Earendale becomes a major part of the history but Tolkien write scattered pieces about him.
The stories have awakened a slumbering love and passion for the fantastic.“If we find ourselves with a desire that nothing in this world can satisfy, the most probable explanation is that we were made for another world.” -C.S. Lewis (close friend of Tolkien)The Tale of Turambar and The Fall of Gondolin almost broke me to tears.
Most of the essential plot points are the same, or similar, though there are a few major differences (such a Turin and the outlaws' encounter with Mim the Dwarf and his sons); but the edited published version is a much better read.* The Fall of Gondolin--this, now, is a masterpiece, and a shame it's not as widely known as some of the Professor's other works.
If you have not read or did not enjoy The Silmarillion, do not even bother reading The Book of Lost Tales.
I would actually recommend reading The Silmarillion a couple of times before reading these books.
The Book of Lost Tales seems to be a first draft of The Silmarillion.
Also I felt the tale of Eriol and "The Cottage of Lost Play" was a bit irrelevant.I kept The Silmarillion with me for reference as I read due to the name differences.
Many of the names in Lost Tales are significantly different than those in The Silmarillion.
As with Part One lots depth and early development of what would eventually become the Silmarillion, from brainstorming to outlines, to early and discarded drafts & entirely reworked ideas, all researched and expertly presented by Christopher Tolkien. As always great history into Middle Earth, but even more so into the writing process and the writer’s working evolution as they craft their unique story.
But the downside to this is that it isn't very fun to read.
You can only read yet another version of Beren and Luthien so many times before you're tired of seeing the miniscule changes from one version to the next.So, overall, I slogged through this over about a year.
I'd say it was worth it in the end for someone like me who loves Tolkien and his entire created world of Arda (and Ea in general).
But I'll never re-read them.
They come off too much as seeming like Christopher Tolkien just bundled every scrap of paper he could find, rather than thinning them down into a logical consistency.
The Book of Lost Tales, Part Two (The History of Middle-Earth #2), J.R.R. Tolkien, Christopher Tolkien (Editor)
1) Beren and Luthien (4/5)I have read this Story over and over again in “The Silmarillion”, “Beren & Luthien” and now in “The Lost Tales”.
A sorrowful tale, linking The Tale of Beren and Luthien with the Tale of Earendel, giving a full picture of the History of Gnomes and Dwarves on Middle Earth.
A Battle that remains to be one of the most important one in Middle Earth.
We’ve lost a tale that might have been the Core Link between the History of Middle earth and The Lord of the Rings.
I really tried to get through this. In all honesty, all of these “lost and unfinished” tales books have all the same stories in them. The tales of Turin or Beren and Luthien are all great stories, but I don’t need to read them five times.
It's a tough nut to crack, and some of the later stories, where we have less and less structure to work with, can be mind-numbing with the effort they require to read.But two tales in particular linger in my mind with fondness as I shut this book.
Here's a good way to go with Tolkien's books:Read The Hobbit.
I'm a sucker for punishment, so I'm going on to The Unfinished Tales next, and hopefully I'll read Lost Tales Part 1 someday.I think one particular reason why I appreciate reading a tough Tolkien book is the mental exercise it requires.
:-)The story that I wanted to read is actually the Nauglafring (Necklace of the Dwarves).
But it was interesting as well to read a more thorough version (at least from the version told in The Silmarillion) of Beren-Luthien's and Turin Turambar's stories.
Tolkien at his best.And then came the story of Nauglafring.
The weirdest part from the book to me is not the scholarly remarks and analysis given by Christopher Tolkien on various subjects from etymology of names to different versions of poems, but it was the fact that Elves became fairies.
And a different version still it the one found in The Silmarillion, but more on that book.I think, on the whole, I like the stories in this book better than the stories in part I.
At least you get a very different persepctive on the tales of part II, if you haven't read part I.I think the most interesting stories in part II is the ones that aren't written.
The last two tales that is, they're mostly notes and outlines and plans of Tolkien's for stories he wanted to write.
And thus, reading these books has made me want to reread The Silmarillion, but that probably is a way off.
Luthien being the biggest badass ever, no matter how many ways Tolkien writes it (she's the best character he's ever written- fight me if you think otherwise lol)2.
Turin and his family making the worst possible life choices (along with a reminder of why I lol every time someone says that Tolkien is 'too tame' or 'too PG' for them).The Fall of Gondolin is my favourite piece that Tolkien has written.
Cringe worthy terrible, TBH.I legitimately love these books because there's no way to totally make out Tolkien canon, which means that I can just kind of choose things I love the most and go with that.
Heroics of a young authorAs the narrative frame of The Cottage of Lost Play continues from the first volume, it is time to “listen” to the tales of the big heroes of the First Age. Far more naive and chaotic, while at the same time more enthralling and sparkling than the  Silmarillion’s  mature storytelling, this earlier account of the known legends sheds a light on Tolkien’s working process and allows a different perspective of some those famous characters. Aside from the studious dive into the

Though I liked the first Book of Lost Tales better, this one was still amazing. The stories in it not only give depth to the Silmarillion and The Lord of the Rings, but also as JRR Tolkien himself AND what being a human and an artist really means. Some of the work of both prose and poetry in this volume is equal in beauty to the most wonderfully beautiful pieces Tolkien himself published. Anyone who enjoys writing in any form should read these tales.
In this the second, we see the first sketches of the stories which would become the three great tales of mortal men in the First Age of Middle-earth, Beren, Túrin, and Tuor—and through the son of that last man, the second from the Elder Days to marry an elf princess, of Eärendil and his voyage to the Undying West.This volume also includes, as its last section, “The History of Eriol or Ælfwine and the End of the Tales.” Unlike the tales of the other men, no great revised version of this part made it into The Silmarillion.
The earliest conception of the story is quite interesting; Beren is an Elf and Sauron (here known as Tevildo) is a giant evil cat!The second tale is Turambar and the Foaloke and is the earliest version of the Turin saga, and again very interesting in its early conception.The Fall of Gondolin is really the most interesting part of the Lost Tales as it is the only full length version of this story Tolkien ever wrote.
He did begin a revised version that was subsequently published in Unfinished Tales, but this was only completed to the point where Tuor comes to Gondolin.
Es algo parecido a lo que me pasó con el primero; pero mientras los cuentos del primer tomo los disfruté por sí mismos, estos me han costado un poco más.
No quiere decir que no sean disfrutables, pero las versiones definitivas que se publicaron en El Silmarillion, Los hijos de Húrin...
Lo cuál es lógico: como he dicho, son las PRIMERAS versiones, lo que significa que aún les quedaba pasar por todo ese proceso de revisión y cambios que Tolkien aplicaba a sus obras antes de darles el visto bueno.Aun así, no hay que complicarse la vida: el objetivo principal de estos libros es analizar las ideas originales del universo de Tolkien, motivo por el que están llenos de comentarios de su hijo Christopher (de hecho, creo que hay más páginas de notas y comentarios que de narración).

If part one of The Book of Lost Tales was dedicated to Valar and to the World creation concepts, second part is dedicated to 6 pivotal stories for The Silmarillion substance.
I enjoyed in the first version of the story of Beren and Luthien, where Sauron is mentioned for the first time, but in form of demon Tevildo - prince of cats.
Also, tale about Turin is slightly different than the one in final version.
Also, full version of the creation of the Nauglafring (i.e. Nauglamir) is present in this book, as well as slaying of king Tinwelint (Thingol), that is different than the one in final version, and more logical and consecutive.
I want to once again point you to Corey Olsen (The Tolkien Professor) and his podcast that walked me through this book (in 2 or 4 hour long lectures for each chapter).I am constantly amazed at how thorough Christopher Tolkien's analysis of his father's work is.
It's hard to imagine anyone being as complete and meticulous as him -- he may even have surpassed his father!The Fall of Gondolin was fascinating.
The different conceptions of Elves, Dwarfs, and Humans is fascinating.
And it was fun to watch JRR Tolkien play with the idea of making Tol Eressëa into England, or the other way around.Next up (after a break): The Unfinished Tales!
I bought this book because I like LOTR, and I wanted to have a better understanding of Middle Earth history. You will get that in this book. However, the style is closer to Old English, so it's very boring to the average reader. So, if you enjoy Old English literature or are a hardcore fan of LOTR, I recommend this book. If you don't like Old English and only like LOTR for its fantasy elements, don't bother.
Mah.Francamente questo "corpus tolkeniano" si poteva tranquillamente evitare. Posso capire il senso di voler dare uno sfondo a tutte le vicende de Il signore degli Anelli, ma pubblicare anche le bozze scritte da Tolkien (il padre) e dargli una veste grafica da romanzo finito è semplicemente una operazione commerciale.
As with Part I, this book has several incomplete tales with only bare sketches to finish it off, but that can be ignored due to the wealth of information about his world that Tolkien reveals. For this reason it is a must read for Tolkien fans, especially for fans of Legolas Greenleaf as this contains his first appearance in Middle Earth.
Included within this two volume edition of early manuscripts is a poem called "The Song of Eriol", which I have long counted as a personal favorite. The writings within this compilation while often more academic than literary, still provide both insight and enjoyable reading for both the long time Tolkien aficionado, and fiction fan in general.
Utterly fascinating. The tales in this book are so much more complete and real then the summaries you get in the Silmarillion. There’s a ton of information given by Chris but all of it just adds these layers of complexity to the creative process.
This covers the work Tolkien did to create the mythology and history of Middle Earth. While it is interesting, informative, and does enhance one's understand of LOR, I don't think this book is for everyone.
in this book i read about so many heartbreaking moments, and it's dear to my heart just like the silmarillion. I think that the best part of this book is the strong relationship between Beleg and Turin, if you love this characters you should really read this book.
52 Books in 52 Weeks #45 A Book already in your bookcase
