https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10235.Mountains_Beyond_Mountains
Dr. Paul Farmer is many things, world expert on AIDS and Tuberculosis, patient-care physician extraordinaire, founder of a ground-breaking health care facility in Haiti, consultant to Anti-TB programs in Peru and Russia, author of several books and countless articles, husband, father, and, maybe, saint.
Kidder traces Farmer, as a professional and as a person, illuminating the path Farmer followed from the eccentric life his family led when he was growing up to his medical education, discovery of Haiti and growth as a professional.
It is an inspirational tale, one that every cynic should read.What remains an unsolved mystery is what it is that made Paul Farmer the person he is.
Sheer eloquence I know...I am sure that this appeals to many a PCV out there and particularly Health Volunteers because it advocates and condones what we feel every time we run into Djeneba who is sick with Sumaya or Traore Chekoroba who's got Amoebic dysentery,that "wish I could ease your suffering feeling", part of it can very well be empathy, because I know a great deal of us have been in similar situations while in country.
But it always seems to me,empathy never gets us anywhere with out the proper training or funds to make a true difference in people's lives (I imagine Dr. Farmer would probably say that that feeling was half an accomplishment, the rest comes later :) ).
Update... this is another book that I read before I joined Goodreads. I still own it and it’s a treasure. It’s a Kindle special $1.99 today. I’m only mentioning it because sometimes people are looking for one of those great books that they’ve missed....at a great price to boot: this is one of them! EXCELLENT........(read it along time ago —it inspired me!!!)
For anyone who yearns to "make a difference" but feels overwhelmed at where to start, this book will inspire you, maybe even shock you.
Doctor Paul Farmer decided at the age of 23 to devote his life to treating the poor.
My suspicion is they're not getting a lot of sex, because they spend a lot of time screwing the poor"Farmer allows one to believe that one can "follow one's heart" AND be effective.
He still makes house calls to the poor in Haiti, trekking for hours up and down mountains.
Farmer has done that and it's really, really worked.
in my opinion our construction of heroes in this world leaves a lot to be desired. and while paul farmer might indeed being doing incredible work with an incredible attitude/perspective, i tired quickly of this book's idolation and unquestioning worship. this is *not* how we will create more heroes among ourselves and others. this is precisely how people like dr. king have been removed from the people and pedastalized to the detriment of our movements and our visions for change.get a grip tracy kidder and drop the holier than thou personifications.
Paul Farmer, who managed to commute to the clinic he was running in rural Haiti while in medical school.
This is absolutely what I want to do, but I reached the half-way point in this book (You know, the point at which this tiny three-person-single-man-funded-non-profit takes on multi-drug resistant TB in Peru.) totally discouraged.
Honestly, I don't even want to be that person.That isn't what the book is saying, obviously, but that's absolutely what I was reading.
Paul Farmer, the subject of this book's adoration, spoke at Columbia's commencement ceremony this past May. At that time, I had never heard of him.
If I had known, I would have gone and been able to see first-hand who he is."Mountains Beyond Mountains" is neither biography nor non-fiction, but is more a commentary on the author's time spent with Dr. Paul Farmer.
I wish I could know what he is really like, because people like the man idolized by this book don't exist.Perhaps I should have read this by choice instead of because it was assigned.
Mountains Beyond Mountains is a biography of Dr. Paul Farmer, a Harvard educated physician who, in the face of seemingly insurmountable odds, set out to bring life-saving, 'first-world' medical practices to the desperately poor in rural Haiti.
Later, he had the good fortune to meet a Boston millionaire who, over the course of a couple decades, has given nearly his whole savings to Farmer to use in Haiti and various other countries where Farmer's organization, Partners in Health (PIH), sponsors community medical projects.
This was no easy task, but PIH proved to the world that it is possible to successfully provide the poor with quality medical care.The book is painfully long but, I think, ultimately worth the struggle.
One person can make a difference. Kidder finds another superb subject for examination. Should be a great book for discussion. Dr. Farmer is not one-dimensional, but he is almost mono-maniacal in his dedication. Kidder is not afraid to give us enough to consider whether the ends justify the means. A well told story that, with luck, will inspire others to similar dedication.
A brief glance at the titles of a few of Dr. Farmer's books gives you a sense of his worldview - and his penchant for pithy alliteration - AIDS and Accusation: Haiti and the Geography of Blame; Infections and Inequalities: The Modern Plagues; Pathologies of Power: Health, Human Rights, and the New War on the Poor; Haiti After the Earthquake.This is a man who believes with all his heart that the "idea that some lives matter less is the root of all that is wrong with the world" and that "a social justice approach should be central to medicine and utilized to be central to public health....the well should take care of the sick." Kidder spent a great deal of time with Farmer.
And, if you don’t actually feel immersed, because the words and details on the page are basically deliberately arrhythmic, Kidder and Farmer will give you the steady “are-you-stupid” stare—you don’t get it, do you, because you’re not smart enough to get it, you will never be able to truly understand and get the inner workings of Farmer’s mind and soul.Actually, Kidder addresses this in his book.
It doesn’t smack you over the head with itself: for most of the book, I was still struggling between what it is that Farmer and Kidder were trying to make me feel, and to believe in the feasibility of Farmer’s vision, not only as a reader believes in a book’s world but as a frustrated individual believes in the vision’s place in our real world.
Dr. Paul Farmer has remained an incredibly influential figure in my life as I continue towards a career in global health in the future. However, Kidder's portrayal of Farmer as a man worthy of incessant awe and praise seemed unexplained and confused me throughout the duration of this book. I really struggled to get into his narrative and felt as though I was reading more about Kidder's personal idolization of Farmer than the truth of Farmer's personality and his work abroad.
Just remember “If Paul is the standard, we are all fucked.” Farmer is a doctor working in rural Haiti, a land that many have forgotten and others are willfully ignoring.
Tracy Kidder is a journalist who runs across Farmer while on assignment covering the political turmoil of Haiti in 1994.
“Fuck You.”	Paul Farmer did not set out to change the world.
He lets us know its okay to feel annoyed at Farmer for his disregard for the norms.
He lets us know its okay to feel guilty for not being able to dedicate our lives so fully to the poor.
If you would like to feel like you are self-centered and haven't accomplished much, read about Doctor Paul. I was going to try to cure Africa of TB, but I just haven't had time lately. I need to meet this guy, if only to hear more stories about growing up on a bus. This book unfolds in a grabbing way, and reads easily despite a telling of facts and events.
Also, I was fully prepared for the idea that I wouldn't necessarily like Dr. Paul Farmer.That's two to me.Being broke is tough.
Since then he has done astounding work in multi-drug resistant TB treatment and AIDs treatment among the poorest peoples in the world.
Everyone should have such a caring and creative doctor.And yes, sometimes he is annoying because he has eidetic memory, and only needs to sleep four hours a night, and he is banging his head against stupid bureaucracy, and poor logic, and the worst kind of social injustice, every single day.He is, I think, a kind of living saint, a man who has thrown himself entirely and completely into looking after the sick, the poor, the imprisoned.
I wish there were more people in this world like Paul Farmer, a doctor who specializes in medical anthropology and infectious diseases.
Tracy Kidder followed him around the world for parts of three years to research this book.
Paul Farmer brought treatment for TB, AIDS and Malaria to thousands of people in Haiti, Russia, and Peru.
He would hike for seven hours to remote areas in Haiti to treat people.
His philosophy was "the only real nation is humanity." This book was published in 2003 and the epilogue in the copy I have was from 2009.
This book was amazing. Dr. Paul Farmer is my hero. This story really gives you a new perspective, it is very inspiring.
(And it was, but I was also younger and had less perspective.) I wound up leaving that job and going back to the book store world because there are no book emergencies and that was greatly appealing to me.For the past eight years I've worked in a hospital, but not with direct patient care.
Dr. Paul Farmer recognized that and for him, it wasn't about providing medical attention and making money off of it.
As far as I can tell from Kidder's book, Farmer has gotten to where he is without stepping on people on the way.
How to rate a mind-numbingly long, adulating, repetitive book about an inspiring, dedicated, and apparently effective foot soldier and general in the fight to improve public health world-wide?
I read very quickly, finishing most non-fiction books in about 3 days.
Determined to read it to the end, wanting to understand more about the subject and his passions, it took me weeks to plow through this book.
Do I judge him to be and exceptionally effective change agent for international public health?
Does the overall subject interest me?
Were I looking for someone to tell his story, would I have [having read it] chosen Tracy Kidder?
What I got out of this book was that, basically, if you weren't helping the sick in Haiti, then you suck.
I felt like Tracy Kidder didn't appreciate the valuable work of anyone else in any other field - or, honestly, anybody but Dr. Farmer.
Then Dr. Farmer came to speak to my school, and I hated the book even more after being forced to listen to him.
I rarely hate books, but Kidder's uncritical praise of Farmer made me see Farmer as an egotistical jackass.
Helpful in the grand scheme of things, sure, but I don't want to hear about him.
Whether it was from the frequent long & arduous treks in the countryside to see a patient, or the jetting to another country for a 2 hour meeting and then jetting back, all the while not using flying time for sleeping but for working.There is much one could focus on in the book, but I will just highlight a couple of things.Farmer had an experience in Haiti during his college years which changed the course of his life and world view.
I find it difficult to describe this book.
There is a line in it that says something to the effect of: Don't let perfect get in the way of good.
The good that this doctor has brought about and continues to bring about, and the good that the book has brought about by publicizing this, is hard to overestimate.
While there are mistakes made by those who are working to bring about good, when we criticize their mistakes and hide our own guilt behind that criticism, we are the hypocrites.
This book makes me re-evaluate my life's purpose and what I am doing to help others.
Read the book.
It's life-changing.
Paul Farmer doesn't believe in protocol OR collateral damage.
Paul Farmer operates on that level every single second of every single day, except his house is the third world and his favorite people are the world's poor.
If you read this and think oh, this book must be just a tremendous guilt trip for the rest of first world humanity - you're right.
It's hard to separate Tracy Kidder's work from the story itself - Paul Farmer is a fascinating character and the work he's done in places like Haiti, in Russian prisons, in Peru is amazing and most health organizations think the work he has done is impossible to replicate.
I often find it redundant after a while and like other NF reads, I felt inertia build to read through to the end since there was no bigger narrative that made me wonder "how will this turn out?" "What is the resolve of this story".
Though he felt for other others he had treated, this case hit him harder since his wife had just given birth.
He felt selfish for essentially "feeling" more towards someone who shared experiences like his rather than just feeling towards everyone equally since they are all part of the human condition.
Tracy Kidder dos an amazing job of chronicling his time spent with Farmer, traveling back and forth to Haiti and all over the globe.
Farmer has been working in Haiti for over 30 years, since before he started medical school, and as Kidder writes in his book, "Farmer is like a compass-one leg swinging all over the world, and one firmly planted in Haiti.
Farmer's mission is to help as many people as possible, medically, and then help them in any way to make their lives a bit more comfortable.
Kidder's account of Farmers work, makes the reader want to do something, anything to help those who are less fortunate.
Though I am sure that Dr. Paul Farmer has flaws like the rest of us, he does have something that makes him stand apart, a powerful dedication to others.
Dr. Paul is living the Higher Morality that we all should aspire, and maybe him and people like him will help usher in a new global morality built on compassion.
A day may come many years from now when future generations will look back, after they have cleaned up our messes, and be shocked by the shear apathy of our and previous generations.
If Compassion ever becomes the norm in the future how will history judge our time?
And what kind of person is capable of that level of commitment and sacrifice (although he would hasten to downplay such a description of his efforts and incredible achievements)?
And how many people are out there applying equal intelligence and ambition to their corporate careers rather than effecting the kind of positive change that Farmer has?
Kidder does a good job of showing Farmer's fierce intelligence, drive, and empathy while never portraying him as a saint (in fact, I sometimes wondered if Kidder really liked Farmer, or just admired him); so, while it's a humbling experience to read about someone who has done such good in the world, you also feel like you're reading about a real person, albeit one far more complex and extraordinary than I've ever met!
I was told to read this book and put it off for a month or two.
I just wanted to know how things turned out.Conviction is what Dr. paul Farmer has.
Conviction is something we all need.
Most of us can't work or live like him but what I take away is his kindness to those many who have so little and need so much.
Kidder doesn't portray Farmer as a saint, but he does makes you believe that there is hope for our cynical world with conviction like Farmer ( even if Farmer seems a little cynical).
Haiti is a complex nation with a heroic history often sullied and distorted by former colonial powers.
Kidder's book is as much a profile of the struggling communities of Haiti's central plateau as it is a biography of the tireless Doktè Paul Farmer.Kidder offers a balanced view of Farmer's astonishing work for the reader to honor, question, criticize, and admire without didactic hand-holding.
Following the doctor's relentless travel schedule, Kidder describes the powerful contrast of Farmer's time spent among international policymakers with the days and weeks he spends serving the people of Haiti.Farmer's dedication to "Areas of Moral Clarity" and bulletproof idealism are an inspiration to a post-industrial world mired in the inertia of relativism.
If I were to judge the content of this book by the actions of the main subject, Dr. Paul Farmer, I would naturally award it 5 stars.
This is an amazing individual - one gets tired just reading about him as the travels the world - Haiti, Peru, Russia - aiding the impoverished by treating infectious diseases like TB and AIDs. How he ever finds time to write, publish, and address conventions is beyond me.
Still, a book worth reading if only for learning some Haitian history, the operation of the Cuban health care system and the sad state of the medical care to which the world's impoverished masses are subject.
