https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/26247008-truly-madly-guilty
Maybe I'm just spoiled by domestic thriller authors like Gillian Flynn and Megan Abbott, maybe I want all the wrong things from Moriarty, but whatever the reason, her books never pull me in.
This is the third of her books that I've tried and once again I’m overcome by the slowness, the lack of pull… the sheer dullness of the characters.Perhaps I do expect the wrong things, but I don't think that's completely my fault.
I genuinely want to get on the Moriarty fanwagon, but I think it's time I admit her style is not one that draws me in, even if her titles and premises do.
I'm a big fan of Liane Moriarty, but not only was this book about 200 pages too long, the storyline was weak, I didn't like any of the characters, and the "big reveal/secret" Moriarty usually puts in her books was a big letdown.
That's part of the point of many of her stories I know..bad things happen to normal people living in the burbs...but this group is more blah than usual.
The rest is a back and forth between the characters that was still very slow to unfold and pretty predictable.

TrulyMadlyBoring
Whether this book works for the reader depends on patience, patience because it takes quite awhile before, we find out what happened.
So easy to read, flows right along, the two little girls providing a great deal of humor and the observations of people and marriages that can only be described as insightful.
Easy to relate to because I know people like some of these in this book.
I haven't liked all her books as much as her last two but she has the knack of taking and exaggerating human foibles to put together amazing stories.
We spend 250 pages reading characters saying to themselves and to each other, “If only I hadn’t gone to that barbecue” or “Nothing’s been the same since that barbecue.” She’d cut the alternating chapters off at odd points in an attempt to build in mini-cliffhangers, so you never knew what chapter would eventually reveal the big secret.
She points out the different ways that characters feel about the same things as a way of demonstrating that we might not really know the people in our lives we claim to be closest to.
I think that this could have been a four- or five-star read for me if Moriarty had just reined herself in a bit.
Instead of displaying disgust, the little boy climbed to the top of the pile and began digging.“What are you doing?” the psychiatrist asked.“With all this s**t” the little boy replied, beaming, “there must be a pony in here somewhere!”That’s how I felt about reading this latest from Moriarty.
I’m not comparing the book to a pile of manure, I’m just saying I ‘dug’ through a lot of pages and never found the pony.
And I should point out I really, really like her books, I’ve read four out of the last six.
Her books seem right up my alley, how could I have not read Big Little Lies, or The Husband's Secret?
However, this means that I came into reading Truly Madly Guilty with an unbiased perspective, and will hopefully give you a run down about what I liked and didn't like about it as a Moriarty novice!Something happened at the BBQ that day.
This story is gritty, raw and deep.Moriarty creates an amazingly charged atmosphere in the first half of the book without actually revealing what happened at the BBQ!
Well, shoot. This was a strangely unsatisfying read for me. The long tease about what happened at that dang backyard barbecue just wasn't quite worth the wait. Looked good, smelled good, but upon tasting it, I wanted more salt and pepper.
The epitome of a page turner.Like I said in my review of Big Little Lies, Moriarty is great at crafting complex characters.
The 6 adults, and even the 3 children, in this story or so well developed and interesting.
I love the little nuggets of wisdom she drops here and there.
They stick out like little gems that you want to collect and treasure.
I have a feeling she's going to become one of my favorite authors and a go-to recommendation for people who don't know what to read next.
I enjoyed this very much but you do have to be patient!
We all know something happens at the barbecue but the reader is not let into the secret until half way through the book which is a long time to wait!
The problem with such a build up is whether the event, when it materialises, will be as bad as we are expecting or will it be an anti climax.
Fortunately Moriarty picks the kind of event which terrifies us all and which totally lives up to expectations.
The rest of the book is a study of three separate marriages and the intricacies of friendship.
They are neighbours of Erica and Oliver.The scenario here is that the three couples and their children have recently attended a barbeque at Vid and Tiffany’s house.
We initially pick up the period shortly after the event but as we move through the book these passages are interspersed with a fractured but detailed breakdown of the fateful day itself.There is less humour here than in some of the author’s books, but the individual stories of the three couples keep the interest alive and the dialogue is as sharp and true as ever.
In fact, the main events of the barbeque are declared quite early on and it’s the ramifications and side-stories that maintain the interest thereafter.It is an enjoyable tale and it does have some real depth to it.
4 stars! I enjoyed this book! Liane Moriarty does a great job of grabbing your attention from chapter one. She throws multiple characters' perspectives of an "unknown dramatic event" at you throughout the first half of the book. She pulls the reader along, feeding their curiosity with just enough detail to keep them reading "one more chapter" to find out more. Even when you do find out what the "event" was (at about the halfway point), you need to continue reading to the end of the novel to find out the full outcome of this event on each character involved.
By the time Liane Moriarty unveils the secret, you'll be just over halfway done with the book.I feel I should warn you though: Please don't expect the twist to be overly shocking, twisted or scandalous.
I did have that expectation, merely because the topic was built up so much and was cleverly avoided.
It kept me turning the page in anticipation, only to feel anti-climactic.That's ok, all is forgiven because the writing is superb.
Liane Moriarty is quite skillful at weaving deep epiphanies, innermost feelings, etc.
into her books, and yet you won't get confused or lost in the shuffle.
★★★If you have read any reviews for Liane Moriarty's Truly Madly Guilty, you already know that it all seems to be about something that happened at a barbecue. Be forewarned, it's much too easy to get sucked into the mystery of what happened...afterall, the hush hush event is brought up over and over and over again and appears to be something horrendously taboo based on how the characters continue to refer to it. But I beg you, for your own enjoyment, ignore these traps. Instead, meet the charact
★★★½If you have read any reviews for Liane Moriarty's Truly Madly Guilty, you already know that it all seems to be about something that happened at a barbecue.
Be forewarned, it's much too easy to get sucked into the mystery of what happened...afterall, the hush hush event is brought up over and over and over again and appears to be something horrendously taboo based on how the characters continue to refer to it.
In my opinion, her continued reminders of the mysterious barbecue incident were incredibly distracting and did a horrendous disservice to her story.
The first half of the book is slow as molasses and sometimes I had to refrain myself from reading ahead and skimming to the juicy parts.We get to know of the characters' past while the book is building up to this big reveal.
I thought the book was so austere, strict in its format, and sometimes bland that I couldn't see myself give it 4 stars or write an interesting review (the bane of the review writer).I had read Big Little Lies recently and thought that I would enjoy this one just as much, but it was not to be.
The author displays her mercurial talent here, just as in Big Little Lies.
You could jump so much higher when you had somewhere safe to fall.
3 starsHmm. I was originally going to give this 3.5 stars, but thinking about it, I can’t find enough positives to warrant the extra half star.
This was my first Liane Moriarty novel and while I found it engaging enough, it didn’t blow me away.
The twists themselves were good, I think I expected more of a thriller than a family drama - which I guess is my fault for not doing my research before reading.
Decent enough read - but not one I’d go back to I don’t think.
Another enjoyable read but I found it a little slow getting to what actually happened at the barbecue. I do have to confess though that I was getting a little bit impatient at what transpired at the barbecue so I did read ahead. It didn't really spoil anything for me as I guessed that it had to be something like that. It was a fast and easy read. I really do like this author.
However, by 30% I became accustomed to the unusual style of this author finding that I enjoyed the way the writing made me think a little more, adding to the suspenseful nature and I became completely engaged and intuitive to the writing clues that established the time frame.
The third person narrative toggles between the present and the past event of the BBQ providing a full all round perspective and visual of each character’s thoughts, feelings and actions ensuring every element of the story is revealed by the end of the novel providing a very satisfying feeling to the reader.
Having Tiffany and Vid’s larger than life personalities there will be a welcome respite.Two months later, it won’t stop raining, and Clementine and Sam can’t stop asking themselves the question: What if we hadn’t gone?In Truly Madly Guilty, Liane Moriarty takes on the foundations of our lives: marriage, sex, parenthood, and friendship.
Not only did the comments fascinate me endlessly, they also enticed me into other book reviews and discussions, where I read heartfelt, amazing life stories thrown in as part of the reviews, and about four hours later I remembered that I actually wanted to write a review, first and foremost!
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/I arrived late to the Liane Moriarty party, but after reading both What Alice Forgot and Big Little Lies this year I’ve been declaring to anyone who would listen . . . .  Moriarty took the artistform formerly known as “Chick Lit” to a whole new level with likeable bitches as main characters and stories where skeletons fall out of pert near everyone’s closets. I put myself on the waiting list for Truly Madly Guilty at both libraries as
Moriarty took the artistform formerly known as “Chick Lit” to a whole new level with likeable bitches as main characters and stories where skeletons fall out of pert near everyone’s closets.
I put myself on the waiting list for Truly Madly Guilty at both libraries as soon as I finished my first Moriarty book, and I’m still 71st in line at the main branch if that is any indication on how popular this author has become.
From the three books I’ve now read, Moriarty seems to have developed a nearly trademarked formula when it comes to her storytelling.
What I've enjoy most about Moriartys novels is how easy it is for me to relate to her characters. They're perfectly imperfect, yet always redeemable. Enjoyed this a lot...
I knew that it had been nominated for best fiction of 2016 on Goodreads (which is why I bought it), but I did not know the author and I did not know much about the story.
At several points I was amazed at the authors' sense of details and how these details really brought the story to life.
It is beautifully written and structured, and it was such a delight to have these characters in my life for a couple of days - characters that I'm most definitely going to miss and reflect back on in the upcoming weeks.
First off you need to be very patient with this book, something that I am not great at I am afraid so unfortunately this did effect my review.
Six adults, three kids and a small dog at a barbeque, sounds like a wonderful afternoon but oh my what can go wrong.
What does go wrong takes till well over the half the book to happen, in between we receive back story into the other characters and their lives.
I have read other Liane Moriarty's books and thoroughly enjoyed them, this one not so much due to the drawn out story, just wasn't for me.
She explored those serious topics exceptionally well.When the seven episode series for Big Little Lies came out on HBO, two of the gals from said book club invited me to meet with them over lunch every other week to binge-watch a couple of episodes each time.
A few of the various articles said that they had also optioned Truly Madly Guilty because the writing bowled them over.That was all I needed to read.
The book length is a bit hefty, but as in Big Little Lies, I knew that the various revelations would not come until the very end.
Then I was able to muster up a little sympathy, or at least understanding, for a few of the characters, while others still left me feeling cold, all of which made the book feel overlong, causing me to experience impatience, and frustration, on more than one occasion, which is something you never want a reader to feel.
While the book has its moments of flair and clarity, the momentum was off, and the usual sweaty palm suspense lost its edge, which has me torn on how to rate this one.
Each novel has its own quirks.Another thing I like about Moriarty's writing is how the plots will go in unexpected ways — I have constantly been surprised at how a storyline will zig when I thought it was going to zag — and I love the way she wraps up a story, sometimes giving the reader who makes it to the end a juicy bit of info that ties the whole novel together.
I'll also make a plug for the marvelous audiobook narrator Caroline Lee, who has beautifully performed the three Moriarty books I've read, and I love her work so much I plan to download her other audiobooks just because she's the narrator.
A wonderfully written story. You care about each character as their lives mingle. I don't think I want togo to a backyard barbecue for a while. Much enjoyed!
Big mistake. I listened to the audio. The narrator had a grating voice that was not pleasant. I am a big fan of Moriarty's Big Little Lies - best chic lit I ever read and I don't read many. This one wasn't as good.3 out of 5 stars
