https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/65327.People_Skills
گاهی پذیرفتن اینکه در کجای زندگی و رابطههایت ضعف داری، کار خیلی سختی است. سختتر از اینکه بهت بگویند ماه را بشکافی و یا تا نوک اورست بروی و برگردی. تا وقتی که تمام دنیایت را تنهایی یکدستی پوشانده باشد و در حاشیهای امن به زندگیات مشغول باشی، اتفاقی نمیافتد. خطری تهدیدت نمیکند. فقط امواج سکوت است که گاهی مثل نویز آزاردهندهای در وجودت ویزویز میکند. اما همینکه آدمهای دیگر، نزدیک، آشنا، تازه وارد زندگیات بشوند، از حاشیهی امن ناگهان پرت میشوی به طوفان حوادث و آنوقت میفهمی که چقدر عیب در تو بوده و میخوا
از کتاب‌هایی که مدام دستورالعمل می‌دهند و راه‌های خوشبخت شدن را دیکته می‌کنند بیزارم بنابراین کاملاً با احتیاط سراغ این کتاب رفته‌ام و هنوز هم احساس می‌کنم ضعف‌هایم سرجای‌شان هستند ولی خواندنش باعث شد بعضی چیزهای کوچک و ریز برایم روشن شود.همیشه از این‌که کسی -به هر شیوه‌ای- قدم به حریم شخصی‌ام بگذارد آن‌چنان مثل ببری وحشی خشمگین می‌شوم که نمی‌توانم به شکل منطقی فکر کنم.
آدم‌هایی مثل من که مدام به تمام جنبه‌های یک رابطه می‌اندیشند و مدام در پی بهبود روابط و یا از بین بردن تعارض‌ها هستند و می‌خواهند رابطه کاملاً پاکیزه و عاری از کدورت باشد، می‌توانند با این کتاب کمی برای خود دلگرمی فراهم کنند.
In fact it is probably one of the most used books in my collection (I even have the paperback version covered in plastic and it’s never far from my desk).
It’s a book where you might read a chapter that relates to one of your underused skills (such as assertion) for your own development, or when you are faced with a difficult situation (such as managing a critical conflict).
“People Skills” covers all the essential communication skills such as reflective listening, assertion and conflict management.
Described by the publisher as a “communication skills handbook”, “People Skills” should be essential reading for every manager.
apparently the 80's is when all the good psych books were written. i've tried to apply the practical skills found in this book to my daily life, rephrasing what people say to assure understanding, keeping a watchful eye on my emotional space to protect it from intruders, etc. 2 weeks later and i still have friends, so the book can't be all bad.
DNFing. It was a really helpful and insightful read but god it is boring and i just cant be bothered picking it back up. So no more for me.sigh.
. .3) Silence4) Reflective Listening to the other's defensive response (hostility, questions, side-stepping debates, tears, withdrawal) -- tends to reduce defensiveness5) Recycling steps 2 through 4 as often as necessary (i.e., reassert)6) Focusing on a solution (good assertion messages allow the other person to come up with his/her own solution rather than you forcing a solution on the other): - make sure it meets your needs- paraphrase solution back to the other- say thanks- arrange a time to check with each other to make sure solution is workingChapter 11: Increasing Your Assertive Options (for after you've mastered the Three-Part Assertion Message)1) Natural Assertions (not following a particular method)2) Self-Disclosure: (sharing feelings)3) Descriptive Recognition (not flattery or evaluative praise of person's character, but letting the other person know you value a specific behavior of that person and perhaps telling him/her how it's had a positive effect on you, e.g., "When you .
I'm honestly confused how so many people found this book to be useful.
Personally I found it to be a collection of ineffective, formulaic techniques.
All of the example scenarios were contrived and hyperbolic, completely ignoring all the subtleties that contribute to real world communication issues.
Likewise, all of the success stories were anorexic, essentially comprising of nothing more than "Sally had trouble communicating with her boss/friend/partner, but then she used these techniques and now everything is great!"The only positive I can give is that this book is well structured.
Update 2: Have read it several times. still good. (2018)Update: Re-reading it every two years. Still good. (2013)Original Review: This book is so full of good stuff, it's hard to get through. I started reading every page twice. I feel like I need to read it once a year or something.I agree with everything this guy says and the book has prompted me to think that telling the truth all the time is okay. And to tell people when I don't like what they're doing, etc.
If you want to learn how to better communicate with EVERYONE in your life, read this book!
It was an excruciating thing to read, but its content is great. It is written in a very humane, warm manner and it does not try to teach you "tricks" like most of its brothers do. Being didactic makes it difficult to concentrate but at the same time, it hammers its points on you so you are unlikely to forget them. It is a nice bundle of information about how we relate to other people and how we can do it better.
I found this book as I was looking for a quick fix to help with some communication issues that were impacting on a friendship.
It became quite apparent half way through the first Chapter that the issue I had identified were just the tip of the iceberg and that there isn't a quick fix.
It you want to explore the different aspects of having good people skills, this book will deliver on that. Good examples and scenarios to support the techniques shared. It did sometimes drag out with listing and describing elements of people skills, but the practical advice was enough to not be overly bothered by the "theory." I would refer back to this book for advice.
I was recommended this book by my counsellor to help resolve non-communication conflicts with my non-confrontational partner as we never seemed to resolve differences rather just bury them. This is definitely a working tool to dip on and out of, helped me tremendously to be more subtle in my need to 'talk' things through and employ my listening skills.
Great book on communication. The best advice on effectively listening (reflectively listening) I've ever read. The parts about being assertive and resolving conflict are a little redundant and also unrealistic. There are also some really good chapters at the end on basic attitudes involved in effective communication.
Eye opening to say the least. The only negative thing about it, just like with any other self-help book, you start to see everything wrong with the relationships you have, a negative attitude takes over and you begin to feel resentment for those that don't see what they are doing "wrong". It's an amazing book, it just requires a positive mind set.
A must read for therapists new or seasoned or just for anyone wanting to improve their communication skills. Many references to famous therapists and their philosophies. Will be a recommended book for my Counseling Procedures course.
i refer to this book all the time, as a teacher, counselor, administrator, and person.
Helpful book in many areas, but a little dense to wade through. It provides a very nice overview on interpersonal skills and covers assertiveness, active listening and problem solving skills.
i learned a lot
then he explored Listening skills.
Listening is not a single skill, but it genuinely practised involves a number of skill areas, which are below:1.
Reflective responsesAssertiveness skills: The whole point of assertion statements is to produce change without invading the other person's space.
Conflict prevention and control: As the old saying goes: " A problem well defined is a problem half solved" "people skills" has been around for 30+ years because the book rests on a strong intellectual foundation and it sticks to the fundamentals - three vital, learnable skills: Listening, asserting, and resolving the conflict.
This book had excellent advice on communication and the techniques for interacting with people. The author's style was very readable and I liked the examples and commentary throughout the book. While awareness of issues makes a significant improvement, some the techniques really require practice to master. The author even suggests admitting to people that you are going to practice your communication techniques on them. When others know you are trying to use the techniques it makes them work better.
A good read for anyone that not only wants to improve their listening skills but also improve their ability to assert themselves thru effective communication. I read this after reading Unconditional Parenting so it was interesting to compare where the philosophies intersected and where they differed. Now the hard part will be to practice the skills I’ve learned and incorporate them into my daily interactions. Would recommend for anyone wanting to improve not only their communication skills but also their personal relationships.
The title attracted me to the reading.
However, I was quite bored with all the psychologist jargon, or their sayings, such as Carl Jung, Sigmund Freud, to name a couple mentioned.
There was other things I am quite familiar with such as paying attention to facial gestures, nonverbal cues, vocal cues, etc.
I skimmed through parts and couldn't bare to finish.
I did want to learn the basics or more about how to face/deal with all types of people.
I am learning more where I currently work at and how to manage my own attitude, or thought process time to time.
Leisure read 2018
Great book about communicating with people. I was surprised how many ideas are in here that are explained so well, with examples of scenarios and discussions about how to put the ideas into everyday use. I've heard so many podcast guests parroting the concepts that originate from Robert Bolton's work.I read it alongside Daniel Goleman's emotional intelligence - great pairing! Where EI gives the science and explains why the science is relevant, people skills gives you the next level of application for even the most emotionally deficient among us.
Lugesin selle raamatu teist korda läbi, kuna see oli nüüd ühes aines kohustuslikuks kirjanduseks. Ma olen seda kuskil kümme aastat tagasi lugenud ja täitsa vahel mõelnud, et võiks uuesti lugeda. On hea raamat. Olen seda ka soovitanud inimestele, kes suhtlemisoskuste kohta rohkem teada tahavad. Üsna sujuv ja kerge lugemine on ka.
This is an excellent book on learning how to communicate and respond to others. I highly recommend it to anyone who is having difficulties in their marriage, business relations, friendships and so on. Each chapter offers new, valuable insights.
Excellent resource for anyone in the helping professions but also great for anyone working in a difficult team environment or someone experiencing unsatisfactory social relations. Clear, direct and smart advice delivered in a very readable manner-recommended.
A little too wordy and philosophical for me.
You really aren't going to learn anything from reading this book. More a compendium of people skills, never really highlights anyway to self-sufficiently gain any soft skills
This was a bit long and a bit redundant, but there were a few helpful strategies to improve communication. Namely listening, but also being assertive, rather than agressive.
It was written with more personal examples than work relationship examples, but I think the main idea was that the skills could and should be used regularly.The book certainly had some great ideas and I believe it works in the kind of conversations I have when I’m at work.
Being able to break down what they are saying by listening well, rephrasing their needs, and then work on a way to make them happy is an important skill for me to have.However, it’s in my personal life that I feel a bit more skeptical about the “power” of this book.
I’m a skeptical person who doesn’t read self improvement books, but I do enjoy learning and hearing people out.
