https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17143.Go_Tell_It_on_the_Mountain
It is neither, rather it is a complicated mess of feelings that cannot be untied into good or bad.If you understand how complex things are in the real world, it is hard not to feel empathy for those who must live it.
And that his heart might know a little joy before the long bitterness descended.SPOILER ALERT:For those who criticize the end of the book for its convenience/believability: I think what Baldwin is getting at here is that the conversion is not a willful choice.
“There are people in the world for whom "coming along" is a perpetual process, people who are destined never to arrive.” ― James Baldwin, Go Tell It on the MountainThis was a slow read.
In terms of pages and words it was a small book, but the river was deep and fierce.
THIS book is why I read fiction.
How else, besides brilliant narrative fiction, am I going to understand anything about being black or being a black pentecostal WITHOUT reading Baldwin?
I haven't read recently (other than Moby-Dick) a novel that appears to be made, brick-by-brick, with more King James Bible pieces than Go Tell It on the Mountain.
While depriving poor people of the power to claim their rights, religion offers an idea of a last judgment speaking for them after they have struggled through life without support or security.Christianity takes away pleasure and dignity and holds them as carrots in front of the believers who keep running after them in the hope of catching them, until they collapse in exhaustion after a long run on a narrow path of suffering in silence.I can't help hoping for something else, though, to set these characters free and to save them.
A thought experiment: what would happen to Christianity if we took away the sin from any consensual sex between grown-ups?Gabriel wouldn't have had to fall back on preaching and beating his way through life to prove he is "saved".
It's John's 14th birthday....his family would forget without his mentioning it.
It's a Sunday.
Every Sunday the Grimes family walks to church where his father is deacon.
It's not the biggest or largest church, but John was brought up to believe it was the holiest and best.
"Everyone had always said John would be a preacher when he grew up, just like his father"......[the abusive preacher 'stepfather' we soon learn].It's New York during the depression for this African American family.
We see how religion plays a positive and negative role in the lives of everyone in John's family.
Baldwin makes you consider perspective, that simulacrum of life, because if life is really about design, then our individually created spaces are really what we call life, making the concepts of love, faith, hope, and education simply tools for each existing space.
This means that at some point, we will all consider life, our portraits, as the characters do in this book, and when we do, we will most likely wonder whether we've made the most use of our faith, education, love, and more.
Hell seemed closer than one’s own family; and it had far more patience.The only way to avoid Hell was to get ‘laid low’ by the Lord, to give up entirely - one’s ambition, one’s desires, one’s personality - in order to become saved.
When the family lived in the South, there was at least hope of escape from the legacy of their slave-parents.
The rest - his father, mother, extended family, fellow congregants - didn’t know it, but he did: the Lord had freed him...
More mystical & readable than the other biggie of Harlem literature, "Invisible Man", the tale told here is like a prism that breaks up into different lights, different lives filled to the brim with hardship.
The Grimes family is led by the patriarch who is a fanatic.
Members of the family struggle to find their own religion by their own means.
Baldwin knows how to TERRIFY by bombarding his prose with religious motifs--- this writer is serious, these characters are serious, & so is religion.
In prose that I can almost see flaming over tympany and trumpets, at times lyrical, at others Biblically poetic in painting John's internal struggles and Gabriel's inner demons, and even casting literary spells with verses from African-American hymns and spiritual songs, such as the eponymous song, and epideictic language of the evangelical church.The novel moved me to recall myself as a 14-, 15-, 16-year old who went to what would now be called an "evangelical" church, and being haunted by the constant, rutilant fears, spurred by ministrations, of an eternal damnation that to me seemed unavoidable by the very nature of growing into manhood: my burning yearnings for girls, the Pavlovian prurience that persisted no matter my prayers, and my chronic corneous condition owing to my carnally cluttered consciousness.*Écouter de la musique belle et montagneuse d'un maestro.“His mind was like the sea itself: troubled, and too deep for the bravest man's descent, throwing up now and again, for the naked eye to wonder at, treasure and debris long forgotten on the bottom—bones and jewels, fantastic shells, jelly that had once been flesh, pearls that had once been eyes.
Go tell it on the Mountain encapsulates the journey that every young person born in the faith will have to take and the road he will tread whether that may be leading to spiritual maturity or secular awakening.
John and Roy are young boys filled with hatred for their father, a reverend, and his moralistic and authoritarian way of raising them.
It is a practice that only pushes young people, like John and Roy, away from the church.
A study in 2007 pioneered by several concerned Protestant sects determined that about 70% of the Christian church’s young people in America will leave their faith by the time they reach university or after they graduate high school.
I didn’t know until after I read this that he was in a similar position as 14-year old John in this tale set in depression era New York City, a true believer who sought to become a preacher like his stepfather.
Most of the secondary characters have had a hard life but find much hope and succor in the community of the storefront evangelical church John’s father ministers to.
As his father makes a ruckus over some trouble his brother gets in, his mother okays him to go away, and he begins his own mild version of “Ferris Bueller’s Day Off”:In Central Park the snow had not yet melted on his favorite hill.
Absolute genius epic sage of a black family 1900-1950 about how good & bad vie within each of us, secular & religious alike. Intelligent, compassionate, & bold. Writing is amazing. Audiobook narrator does it wonderful justice...
This novel is partially autobiographical and tells the story of a day in the life of 14 year old John Grimes and his preacher stepfather (Gabriel), his mother and his aunt with plenty of flashbacks to build the scene.
Baldwin evokes 1930s New York and the sights and feel of the city and John’s relationship to it; this is John in Central Park;“He did not know why, but there arose in him an exultation and a sense of power, and he ran up the hill like an engine, or a madman, willing to throw himself headlong into the city that glowed before him.
“Ah, that son of Noah’s had been cursed, down to the present groaning generation: A servant of servants shall he be unto his brethren. Then the ironic voice, terrified, it seemed, of no depth, no darkness, demanded of John, scornfully, if he believed that he was cursed. All niggers had been cursed, the ironic voice reminded him, all niggers had come from this most undutiful of Noah’s sons." Chinua Achebe in his postscript to his collection of essays, ‘Hopes and Impediments’, says of James Baldw
Chinua Achebe in his postscript to his collection of essays, ‘Hopes and Impediments’, says of James Baldwin, “how easy it was to make Jimmy smile; and how the world he was doomed to inhabit would remorselessly deny him that simple benediction.” The very fact of being a colored person in a racist time, the difficult relations with his abusive father, the breaking away from a faith (he was deeply religious to start with) which would have him feel guilty for his natural instincts and getting criticism from his own Black community when he touched themes of homosexuality ensured a sad life for him.
James Baldwin's body of writing and published work includes essays, plays, poetry, and six novels, of which Go Tell It on the Mountain was the first (1953).
Baldwin uses the voice of one of his characters to make this point."There was not, after all, a great difference between the world of the North and that of the South.
There was only this difference: the North promised more.
Religion is a major theme of the book, both the good and bad influences it had, as it did also with a young James Baldwin in Harlem.
The position of this novel as a classic in modern American literature is secure.
Like the previous Baldwin books I've read, this book is charged with a deep sense of longing and discovery.
Set in the first half of the 20th century, mostly in New York and with parts in America's South, Baldwin narrates with great eloquence of the struggle of life and the role of Faith in it.I believe great books, like this one, disrobe us, in the way that Baldwin himself once said: “You think your pain and your heartbreak are unprecedented in the history of the world, but then you read.
It was books that taught me that the things that tormented me most were the very things that connected me with all the people who were alive, who had ever been alive.”And with each book of Baldwin's I've read, these words still resonate.
The book is divided into three sections: "The Seventh Day," which focuses on John Grimes, our 14-year-old protagonist, and his decision to turn away from his father's religion; "The Prayers of the Saints," which takes place during a revival style church service and includes the prayers, pasts, and current experiences of John's aunt Florence, his father Gabriel, and his mother Elizabeth; and "The Threshing-Floor," in which John is taken by the spirit and is saved.Baldwin's use of religion in this novel reveals the ways in which religious experience and ideology can make a life in this oppressive world even worse.
Reading this, years ago, I was struck by something I didn't think I'd be struck with.Recognition!I was reaised religious, not in anything close to the kind of religiostity he describes- visceral, pummeling, hyperintense- but pretty far-reaching and existential in my own right, if I do say so myself.Anyway, I was throttled by the sheer force and passion and earnestness of the writing here.
Baldwin might have been going for or accomplished something utterly different than what I took away from it, but somehow I doubt it.If I missed the boat, why would I still be here writing this about a book I read several years ago?It's strange and wonderful to connect like this.
A great coming-of-age depicting 14 year old John's journey to conversion. The book has a strong Christian setting, with quite a few good sermons and biblical language scattered throughout it. I detested Gabriel, John's father, a hypocritical, womanizing, abusive preacher with no redeeming qualities whatsoever.
But,Can the salvation of the descendants free their ancestors from their sins?...Can the fathers seek redemption through their accursed sons who inherited their fathers’ sins?Baldwin takes this poor family of a preacher Gabriel, who under the guilt-love for his dying mother, forced himself to surrender to the god, as he was mortified by his involuntary sins.
Will his fire be baptized?If I say that James had tried to tell the story on a religious mountain covered with snow of faith and shrouded in cloud of sins (always ready to descend upon and surround it), wishing to reach the sky of the God, It would not be less…Disclaimer: This being a religious book, talking about it without mentioning about some religious terms would be meaningless.
At a time when I was spirialing in self-doubt and slight depression, when I was trying to figure out life and find myself, I found this book while browsing the shelves at the San Frnacisco public librry and lived these lives with such passion and clarity I was brought back into the realm of sensousness and divinity. I read this book and felt saved. Saved from the torture of having to live life alone, from the limp mass-market suspense thrillers that were mere diversions of the soul, saved from my ego. I loved this book. I still do.
Go Tell It on the Mountain is such a powerful classic, a story of a boy trying to find his place in the world but unsure what that place is.
Ich habe mich aber auch sehr auf die Lektüre gefreut, wusste ich doch, nachdem ich den Film „I am not your Negro“ gesehen habe, dass es eine Begegnung mit einem großen Schriftsteller wird.Der Zeitpunkt dieser Gruppenlektüre schien zunächst schlecht gewählt, denn ich habe gerade begonnen, mich durch Romane über Irland und Dublin zu graben.
Ambivalent ist ohnehin alles in diesem Roman – es gibt zutiefst unsympathische Figuren, die Schlimmes und Verwerfliches tun und die wir doch auch in Momenten höchster Not sehen und dann mit ihnen fühlen.
Weil sie denken, dem christlichen Ansprüchen nicht zu genügen, weil Stolz eine Sünde ist, aber auch weil sie schwarz sind.
Dennoch ist es gerade die religiös gefärbte Sprache, die mir den Roman am Ende gründlich verleidet hat.
Mir schlafen schon die Füße ein, wenn ich zufällig mal einen Fernsehgottesdienst länger als fünf Minuten ertragen muss.
Noch schlimmer finde ich nur die ekstatischen Veranstaltungen evangelikaler Prägung, die zwar im Gegensatz dazu äußerst lebhaft verlaufen, aber auf mich eine gleichermaßen ermüdende Wirkung erzielen.
So gesehen sind das grundlegend ungünstige Voraussetzungen für einen Roman, der wesentlich von seinen bibelhaften Stilmitteln lebt.
Der Zauber von Baldwins Sprache verfängt leider bei mir nicht, so bleibt letztlich nur die von Armut und Zerrissenheit gekennzeichnete Familiengeschichte übrig, zu wenig um meine Aufmerksamkeit über eine längere Strecke zu fesseln.
The obvious conclusion is that I need to read more Baldwin, but while hhis search for truth is unadulterated by any bullshit, the truth he finds is grim.
I like Baldwin for this dark view, where I despise Edith Wharton and Thomas Hardy for producing the same.
Edith Wharton and Thomas Hardy looked down from the upper and lower upper class respectively, and decided that life was hopeless down there.
They didn't know about the little joys that the common people know, the passing on of tales, the moments of shared suffering, the hope offered in little victories.
I feel this one just wasn't for me. I didn't engage with this novel at all. I must say that it is written very well (obviously, it's Baldwin) but the overall story and characters didn't do much for me. I'm kinda disappointed tbh, this is Baldwin's most popular novel according to Goodreads but I personally think that Giovanni's Room blows this one out of the water.
I revisited this novel for the first time in more than two decades and I am so glad that I did.
When I first read the book years ago, I was struck by the intensity of the narrative, the distinctive characters and the psychological suspense of each of the stories (John's, Gabriel's, Elizabeth's & Florence's).
If you're one of those readers, I urge you to consider a revisit.
And if you've never read Baldwin's first novel before, you're in for a rare literary treat.
A book is excellently written, but the story is frightening, it pushes you off and in the end you don’t know, if you should judge the book by the literary value or by the degree of reading pleasure, somehow both are diametrically opposed.
The book is very well written and the structure, almost like a liturgy: entry in the church, reading, singing, prayers, sin confession, preaching.
I liked best the first third with John as protagonist, his observations in the family and in the city as well as his first impressions in the church.
I'm very impressed with how self-assured and commanding Baldwin's first novel is, especially in its structure, and its gritty and poetic prose.The author's empathy for his characters, even an extremely hypocritical one, is strong too.
The difficulty of the adult characters' pasts was most compelling to me, as they can't help but look backward even as they try to forget.
The bitterness of the main character's mother, on a day when she might be happy, is subtle and understandable after you know her back story.
In the end, I can't say I like this story.I feel a bit badly for James Baldwin as this is supposedly an autobiographical novel.
The father in this story is the type of preacher I run away from: the kind who wants to be forgiven from their own sins and beat their helpless & innocent offspring as a means of accomplishing this, in the guise of "saving them".
The child pays for the sin of the father but believes that the punishment means that he is bad, unworthy and badly flawed by sin.
This is a hard story.
Yes, the darkness hummed with murder: the body in the water, the body in the fire, the body on the tree.
John looked down the line of these armies of darkness, army upon army, and his soul whispered: Who are these?
I am ashamed I wasn't aware of it, though I must have read about in Zinn.
I am also ashamed that such remains what and who we are.Baldwin employs ubiquitous ambulance siren to remind the denizens of their peril, much like the drone of the airplane in Woolf’s Dalloway or the police helicopter in Singleton’s Boyz n The Hood (1991).
