https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15803059-ordinary-grace
I feel bad for the next book I plan to read, because Ordinary Grace is a very hard act to follow.This book is very different from the author’s Cork O’Connor mystery series.
The narrator of Ordinary Grace is Frank Drum, who is 13 years old; he tells the story as an adult, 40 years later.
Frank and 11-year-old Jake grew up quickly that summer.
I must comment on the time and setting of Ordinary Grace.
This makes me sad.Ordinary Grace.
If you are looking for a powerfully moving 5-star read this summer, find a copy of Ordinary Grace.
It's a summer that will change his life forever, and his story, told from Frank's perspective forty years later, will resonate with readers for a very long time.Ordinary Grace is a stand-alone from William Kent Krueger, an author best known for his Cork O'Connor mystery series.
Each of the members of Frank's family will react in different ways to the events of the summer, as will the other members of the community.Krueger has vividly recreated the time and place in which this story is set--an obviously simpler and much more trusting age, and he has populated it with a cast of deftly-drawn characters each of whom is totally believable and engaging.
We are told on the very first page that “It was a summer in which death, in visitation, assumed many forms.” But, this book is about much more than just the mystery; it is a story about friendship, brotherhood, family dynamics and bonds, death, faith, and “the awful grace of God”.Thirteen year old Frank Drum, our narrator, bums around in the summer of 1961 with his younger brother, Jake.
Frank relates this story forty years after the summer the events of this book occurred; so we learn his perspective as an adult looking back at his own reflections of his youth and his brief introduction to manhood once tragedy is thrust into the midst of his family.
4.5 starsOrdinary Grace by William Kent Krueger, is a beautifully written hard to put down novel full of twists and turns.
This book is narrated by Frank Drum, 40 years after a fateful summer when he was thirteen years old in New Bremen, Minnesota.
This novel is a coming of age novel yet at the same time it is a mystery and deals with deaths that rocked the small community.
This book is a look at tragic loss and how it affects not only families but the community as a whole.
This book also examines how the members of Frank's family deals with loss.
There is a quote in the book where it talks about the “awful Grace of God”.The meaning of ‘awful’ as an adjective:1.
That is what this book inspired in me – awe.
And its tone, through all the sadness and sorrow in the story, is reverential.Although this story is told in the first person from the point of view of a 13 year old boy, it is told by a much older man named Frank – likely in his early 50’s – who is remembering a particular summer in his life when he was 13.
And what solace is there in the ordinary grace of the world?When tragedy unexpectedly comes to call on his family, which includes his Methodist minister father, his passionate, artistic mother, Juilliard-bound older sister, and wise-beyond-his years kid brother, Frank finds himself thrust into an adult world full of secrets, lies, adultery, and betrayal.
Told from Frank's perspective 40 years later, Ordinary Grace is a moving account of a boy standing at the door of his young manhood, trying to understand a world that seems to be falling apart around him.
A beautifully told story of a family living in New Bremen during 1961 experiencing some good times along with heartaches that somehow appear unexpectedly on the door step of most individuals.
Told from the perspective of a young boy Frank Drum, 13 years old, who has much on his shoulders as he strives to do the right thing, but not always succeeding.
Frank loves many things in his life including his younger brother Jake who stutters most of time and he tries his best to protect him from the bullying of others.
5.0 STARS! Warning:  Reader discretion is advised. This book contains sweet, sirenically addictive prose that can warm your heart, flood your eyes with tears and induce a deeply meditative state in which the reader ignores time and place to ponder nostalgically the enchanting, soothing, carefree days of youth. Various psychiatric studies have determined that literature of this nature can result in higher levels of affective empathy, compassion, understanding, emotional perception, prosocial beha
Or is our notion of the past anything but rigid, more fluid, more variable, like weaving in and out of the bright sunshine and dark shadows of a tree lined trail on a warm summer day, as we look backwards through the prism of our life’s experiences and influences?That being said, I had such a difficult time crafting this review.
Compassionate, reserved, understanding, down to earth and willing to come to the aid of anyone in need, Nathan presides over the funerals of those lost that summer, often times with Frank and Jake by his side.Ruth never signed on to be a minister’s wife.
An amazing, bittersweet and poignant coming of age novel.
Beautifully written with wonderful thoughts on loss, forgiveness and the "awful grace of God".Update - I'm re-reading this for a book club.
I had borrowed a kindle edition the first time I rad this and was able to highlight passages.
Come to find out, all the passages I'm writing down are the same as those previously highlighted.
This books is hitting me just as hard the second time as the first time I read it.
Can't wait for our church book club discussion as so much of this book deals with God and faith.
Ordinary Grace was an extraordinary read. It is set in the deep heat of the summer in 1961, in a small town of New Bremen, Minnesota where the story takes place for Frank and his family. It's a summer of death and darkness but also one of miracles and love. This is a story of relationships, of heartache and heartbreak. It is also about what happens when a family is pulled apart and is healed through the 'awful grace of God'. What an understated read with so many powerful messages. 5 stars.
Recommended by a Goodreads friend, Ordinary Grace is like the roots of a tree, silently and solely burying in the soil to find treasure.
Like the leaves stretching out to find the golden sun's rays.I've gotten a bit tired of the murder victim in my book be a girl.
Maybe if the girl had survived, her recollections would have been so vivid and quirky, if not detached, that the book couldn't have been called Ordinary Grace.I kind of get it why the book was thus titled.
Ordinary Grace is a very good book, very satisfying, very rewarding.
A Brilliant coming-of-age story set in Minnesota in the 1960s. Ordinary Grace is a story of family and community, tragedy and secrets, compassion and forgiveness. A wonderful story of life experiences written in beautiful prose. Most enjoyable is that it's told from the narrator's perspective 40 years later.A must read.5 out of 5 stars.
A book that is to be savoured and really pleasantly enjoyed and meandered through and not rushed doesn’t quite suit me.
This is quite a story, a summer that should be full of innocence and outdoor play, turns into an alarmingly sad tale of murder, suicide and twisted endings.
I have not read any books by this author, and I think I would like to read more of his work.
It’s a wonderful story of a tragic summer of loss for the family of a Methodist minister, I loved all of the characters, particularly young Jake and Frank, who were wise beyond their years.
I woke up in the middle of the night a week after finishing this story with a single word.
I didn't write it down and try as I may, I can't quite get it back.
Having read my friends' reviews already, I feel there is little I can add and for that reason I will keep my review very brief.This is a gorgeous story of discovery, both tangible and intangible, told in a languid manner that is reminiscent of the days that it describes.
Another great story about memory; the importance of and unreliability of what we remember; how it shapes us and carries us along in life.
So pleased I did because this is a beautiful book.I love the easy, gentle characters that Krueger brings to his books.
I so enjoyed the many times in the story when the boys are in trouble and they actually go to trusted adults for help instead of digging themselves further into difficulty, which would be the norm for contemporary literature.I liked the easy pace of the book, not too fast so there was plenty of time to enjoy the scenery and not so slow that it ever felt boring.
And there was plenty of emotion - the tissues came out for the scene involving the title of the book for sure!A lovely book.
I won’t bore you by analyzing this to death (view spoiler)[and there’s lot of death in this book –1 murder just forgotten and left unsolved… (hide spoiler)] Worth reading and a solid 3 stars, ordinary rather than extraordinary.Circa 1960’s told through the eyes of 13 yr old Frank Drum a series of deaths disrupt the lives of everyone in a small town in Minnesota.It has its strengths The dynamics between Frank, a kid with a bad habit of eavesdropping and his younger brother Jake who struggles with a debilitating stutter - great.
The narrator of this story is Frank Drum, a 13-year-old boy who lives in a small Minnesota town with his family: younger brother Jake, who has a severe stutter; older sister Ariel, a talented musician destined for Julliard; father Nathan, an earnest Methodist pastor; and mother Ruth, choir director and superb singer who thought she was marrying a future lawyer and is not happy with her husband's vocation.
This naturally get the boys thinking about death, and God, and heaven - sentiments apparently reinforced by regularly attending three church services every Sunday where their father preaches, their mother conducts the choir, and their sister plays the organ.Soon afterwards the Drums experiences a personal tragedy that rocks their world, tests the faith of some family members, and starts to tear the family apart.
I FULLY enjoyed this glorious reading experience!!! Frank's narration captures this entire page-turning-mystery-novel profoundly intimate. Irresistible!!!! I loved it -- I loved it -- I loved it!!
I was drawn into this story right away and my feelings never changed.
It is a wonderful, but sad, coming of age story narrated 40 or so years after the events take place.
And with all that was about to occur, that guilt over my silence would finally come near to crushing me.""Loss, once it becomes a certainty, is like a rock you hold in your hand.
You can use it to beat yourself or you can throw it away." "There is no such thing as a true event.
The answer: I'd like you to read this book and yet I wonder if I'm going to entice you.Can an experienced, older narrator view the past with more wisdom than he might have possessed forty years earlier the summer he was thirteen?
Ordinary Grace and another book I recently read Last Summer of the Camperdowns both study long ago events in childhood from the adult perspective.
Frank, said narrator of Ordinary Grace takes us back to that Minnesota summer of '61 that begins with the death of a boy.
Ordinary Grace is at it's core about faith, It is a story about family, love, loss, hate, fear and forgiveness.
There are thousands of reviews on this site, so I’ll limit my comments to my views on my experience of listening to the audiobook, which was superbly read by Rich Orlow.The first thing I’d say is that it started really slowly and for quite a while I really didn’t think I’d like it.
And the book became one I wanted to listen to just for the sheer pleasure of being absorbed into the lives of these people.For me the whole thing had a feel of The Waltons - no bad thing as it’s a show I grew up with and loved, watching with my own brothers and parents.
Frank recounts a fateful summer at age 16, when a set of deaths befell their small town and his family, and he stepped up to the plate to assume risks like a man in order to elucidate causes and seek justice.
His father is a Methodist minister and a pillar of the community, but Frank is more like his mother in not trusting that all human outcomes are part of God’s plan.
Their father Nathan eventually proves himself worthy of their trust and helps them understand several of the damaged souls in their community and learn not to jump to premature conclusions about their guilt, as others in the town are prone to.
Told from Franks perspective forty years after that fateful summer.I have to be honest what drew me to this novel in the first place was the beautiful cover and having read the blurb I eager to get my hands on this book and was so happy when the hardback edition popped through my letterbox as this is a book I want on my bookshelf.This is a very well written and eloquent novel and yet the story is told in a simple and quiet manner.
I really loved the sense of time and place and was totally drawn back to the 1960s.I think this would make a great discussion book and a great summer read.
Set in 1961, this story's narrator is a thirteen-year-old boy, Frank Drum, on the cusp of adulthood.
It is retold from the memories of Frank forty years later.
In the summer of 1961, Frank will experience love, loss (death), friendship, prejudice and faith.
He will learn about the different lies we tell ourselves and we tell others.
Frank will discover the effects of gossip.
He will also experience forgiveness of self and of others.
It touched me with the narrative and the description.
The first-person narrative is from a thirteen-year-old boy with reflections from the 53-year-old man.
We get the coming-of-age story with the wisdom of maturity.
Young Jake is wise beyond his years, but he must suffer the town bullies making fun of his speech impediment (he stutters).The town of New Bremen comes alive under the pen of Mr. Krueger, nostalgically evoking the charms of a beautiful childhood, the close knit community, the colourful small family shops and the appeal of the wild places surrounding the town - the Minnesota river, an abandoned quarry, a horse farm, a beautiful garden on the outskirts.
"Ordinary Grace" was EXTRAordinary!I was at once immersed into the small town of New Bremen, MN, in the summer of 1961!
I really felt for the two brothers as they set about investigating several of the tragic events that threatened to tear their family and town apart.
And that:"In a small town, nothing is private.
Word spreads with the incomprehensibility of magic and the speed of plague."Frank had to grow up fast in the face of all that was happening and because of some ordinary graces, he became older and wiser.
Excellent read and I give "Ordinary Grace" 5 Stars!!!
5 Highly Deserving Stars!"The dead are never far from us. They're in our hearts and on our minds and in the end all that separates us from them is a single breath, one final puff of air."William Kent Krueger has written an outstanding story that has depth of character, lessons to be learned and a message that will stay with you for a very long time. Highly recommend!
I really enjoyed this book from beginning to end!!! Loved the preacher, his family, and his friend Gus. Loved the relationship between the brothers of this family.I was kept wondering throughout what the ending would be....very good...
Ordinary Grace is a coming of age book about a twelve-year-old boy named Frank who's curiosity for life and the happenings around him exposes the nastiness in the world to him a little too soon.Because I just made a big move and have had my head in boxes for the past two weeks, I unfortunately have not been able to enjoy reading a book as I usually do.
I like to be surprised.The third thing that kind of ruined it for me was that I figured out early on who was responsible for what happened to this murdered person before they were killed (I'm trying to say this without having to hide for spoilers).
There are deaths in his small town of New Bremen, Minnesota, over the course of this summer, and one of them hits particularly close to home.
The river of emotions flows deep and wide in this story, especially as Frank begins to understand more of what he's observing within his own family and friends.
It was a point of no return for us, as we shed our wholesomeness and family values for a different set of standards.
It's over with, and that's what makes it sad because it's books like this that help illuminate the ugly writing on the wall.
