https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/150236.The_Dream_Songs
There sat down, once, a thing on Henry's heart so heavy, if he had a hundred years & more, & weeping, sleepless, in all them timeHenry could not make good.
This is not for tears;thinking.But never did Harry, as he thought he did, end anyone and hacks her body upand hide the pieces, where they may be found.He knows: he went over everyone, & nobody's missing.
Learned & otherelse, upon the ruinsHow is it faith finds ever matters rough?My honey must flow off in the great rains,as all the parts thereto do thereto belongha, and we are picked toward the last love,the last dream, the last song dreamsong 137The moment when you wake up.
mid-way through i wrote:i am deep into The Dream Songs, John Berryman's book of 385 poems published in 1969, such that i found myself wondering last night whether i can continue to relate to people who haven't read them.
amidst topics like society, adultery, religion, poetry, travel and fame, Berryman writes repeatedly and with varying degrees of explicitness about his father's suicide, the death's of friends and his own ambivalence about continuing to live, and my heart breaks for him and with his.i'm inclined to go on, quote my favorites, explain, but this is not a freshman english paper, and these songs might be things that one just needs to seek out for oneself.
Luckily for us, Berryman happens to be a pretty fulsome and dramatic reader of his own work: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fGIr7f...This one has a little interview snippet in the beginning, dig his tombstone beard and angular glasses and his fine, thin, fluttering, childlike hands: http://www.youtube.com/watch?NR=1&amp...I think the two readings are from the same night, or at least the same era, when Berryman received a MacArthur grant or a Guggenheim or whatever the hell to travel and live and work in Ireland for awhile.
He might be bombed, he might just be getting emotional over his own work, but he also might be totally bombed....It's already a little late in the game library-wise...it's due in a couple days and I have a bust schedule of chaos at this point in my life.The honest, spitty, rabble-rousing voice is so...refreshing.
Once you adjust to his roughhewn whittles, unrhymed & clattery & yet always hinting of a better rhythm just beyond the poem's hide -- once you adjust, you're reminded at once: the word "sonnet" comes from the Italian for "song." Then too, while the dreams getting sung here tend to be nightmares, they play out w/ an undeniable comedy, some of the greatest wiseacre one- & two-liners in American poetry.
Most of these SONGS, after all, depend on some some bitter-wit patter out of Mr. Bones, the vaudeville interlocutor, & he's always too sharp for the poet's stand-in "Henry," a figure never quite certain what he's doing on stage.
I knew too that he was considered a brilliant and impenetrable poet, an impression that was confirmed by my first casual glance into an edition of 77 Dream Songs on the shelf of my boss’s office in Cambridge.These were not like other poems: within their consistent 16-line armature they were turbulent, mad, feverish, cryptic, an unruly union of boppy jive-talk, and thorny quasi-Elizabethan diction.
Berryman was by all accounts a vicious drunk and an entirely unlikable person, and these poems seem to reflect that; there's not much here to make you fall sunny in love with the text in front of you.
Still, there are these snatches every two pages or so that keep you reading, and there are some parts that are really lovely.
A note: there's a troubling use of faked "blackface" minstrel dialogue all throughout the first section of this book.
I could, but barely, and only because I read Berryman's explanatory note and thought I understood it.
I had to read these in Poetry School.Almost everything else there I liked--but not these.
I just didn't get it.Pretty hard to read.
Just kind of grating, off-putting.Also...You ever read "Cat's Cradle" ?How they say "No damned cat.
No damned cradle."I thought that here.Where's the dreams?
Where's the song?(And I've even heard some good explanations, too--about this stuff.)That Dreamsongs from some ancient / older culture --that b/4 dying, get some message or something.Heard Joe Wenderoth give a speech: that when faced with the Poetic Moment,kind of horrifying--and mortality--overwhelming, kind of a nightmare,it makes sense that even your language is disrupted, disjointed...And I still don't like them that much.

John Berryman's sweeping anti-epic joins Eliot's "The Wasteland" and Tennyson's "In Memoriam" as one of the greatest poetic series ever crafted. Berryman's influences are as panoramic as the scope of his avatar Henry's transgressions. He draws from Freudian theory and Daddy Rice's Minstrel Shows, from Apocrypha to his father's suicide, from Relativity Theory to the untimely deaths of his fellow poets. Berryman's writing is painful and visceral, ethereal and transcendent, fantasy and disturbingly real.
O antologie scurtă, din păcate. Însă bilingvă, destul de rar pe la noi, pentru că majoritatea traducătorilor nu au curajul să pună originalul pe pagina din stânga. E important că a apărut un volum de Berryman la noi şi Henry devine personaj de largă audienţă şi nu doar unul la mesele poeţilor. Ici, colo, aş fi modificat traducerea.
Reading THE DREAM SONGS by John Berryman is difficult, especially if you’ve seen him reading the poems on YouTube, drunk with an overgrown beard.
He looks like a nut and he sounds like one, too.
Maybe like a homeless guy you slow down to listen to as you pass on the street, who could be a brilliant mind or have a slowly bleeding hole in his brain.
And yet throughout I was held captive by the sounds of the words, like the songs of the title, and dreamlike too, in their collection of a life both lived and imagined.
I know, however, that these poems are heavily admired and I did not want to give up; I wanted to understand why the heck people like this uninviting book!
Some of them were more narrative (like the ones about deaths of friends or fellow poets, or the one about his father's suicide--chilling!) And the ones that were not more narrative started to sink into me also--I deeply felt the terror, the indignation at the world's absurdities and atrocities, the deep, dark, lonely depression and rage.
The songs in the second collection (His Toy, His Dream, His Rest) are both more numerous and less successful than those in the first, but I don't agree with the high-handed critical line (see Donald Hall & co.) that they shouldn't have been written at all.
But there are many other gems as well, including one of my favorites, #19, which mutates effortlessly from another lament for Berryman's lost manhood into some of the most mordant lines of political verse ever written:Collect in the cold depths barracuda.
I needed a break because I find Berryman's work to essentially reveal a world-weary, at times cynical, sadness that is hard to embrace.
Hard, because I see his style and voice as a function more of his alcoholism than a deeper investigation of that sadness.
I try to put it in the context of the times: late 40s and 50s New York intellectuals struggling with the madness as best they could, with the tools they had (including booze), and trying to find their own generational voice (for poets, in the wake of the early modernist turn--e.g., Pound, Eliot and the Imagists).
I had not read John Berryman for many years. But since it is his centennial year, I thought I would revisit these dark poems. I had forgotten how intense they were. In his earlier work "Homage to Mistress Bradstreet," he has Bradstreet say to her husband, if you don't want to feel my pain, you should neglect me. I think the same goes for these poems. If you don't want to feel the despair of Berryman's dark world, you should leave them alone.
I liked sad comical Henry as a kid, but find it all too personal, too inward, too confessional, too boring now.
The Dream Songs was an unusual and shifting work.
The rest of the work was confusing, lacking the force and power to make me believe that it would be anywhere worth my while to try and dissect the mystical ramblings of Henry/of Berryman/of the poem, however one chooses to think about the source of said elements.
I cannot totally condemn the work, as it did have some wise and interesting and lyrical moments, but on the whole I found it to be less than compelling and somewhat lacking in virtuosity.
There are 385 poems in this edition, which includes work previously published in both "77 Dream Songs" and "His Toy, His Dream, His Rest".
Berryman won both the Pulitzer Prize and the National Book Award for these books.
To be honest, this book of poems seems to me TOO monstrous and dense and while there are many notable lines contained within all of the songs, I would not read this again (as I frequently do with other poetry books).If you want to get just a taste of Berryman, I recommend the following songs:#14#28 Snow Line#61#89 Op. opsth.
12#105#123#140#147#149#151#153#155#171#224 Eighty#239#256#263#287#294#312#331#340#344 Herbert Park, Dublin#385
Mr. Berryman is one of my favorite poets. His language is subtle and his control is impeccable. What appeals most to me is how bizarre it is. Berryman has created three distinct voices: the speaker (mostly autobiographical), Henry, and Mr. Bones. The songs themselves muse on topic such as lust, boredom, beauty, etc. The poems can be hard to get into individually, however, read Dream Song No. 4 aloud and then tell me you don't want to read more. It probably won't happen.
Lyrical but stark style. I categorically dislike confessional poetry for the most part, but Berryman is an exception; the heavy suicide themes in particular are really well-done, and arresting considering his biography. A stellar crack at the "novel in verse" form, something that I've always been skeptical about. I feel like Henry most days, really.
just reread it and downgraded to 4 stars (almost went down to three) - it's pretty dated, with all the ephemeral political stuff and it's not as wild as I remember - still a good read, but the older me isn't as taken with it (which may have more to do with the older me than it)
There is nothing else like it in American lit. That isn't always a recommendation. This time it is. “These Songs are not meant to be understood, you understand.They are only meant to terrify & comfort.”
I don't know how many times I've read this. Several. Every once in a while I have to visit. And now 5 years later rereading it again. Somebody I read recently said they have to reread works occasionally to see what's occurred between herself and the works themselves.
reread unto death.
Especially great literature.
Dumb, unmusical maundering stuff. Self-centered without being self-illuminating, esoteric without being cultivated. Gave up half way through
This collection of poetry, for anyone who knows modern poetry, needs no review. Suffice it to say, that he was one of the most original poets of the 20th century. It shouldn't be missed.
Berryman's "Dream Songs" are problematic. Berryman's "Dream Songs" are some of the best poems ever penned. Read Kevin Young's essay on The Dream Songs.
I think this kind of poetry has a "sell-by" date and that it long ago spoiled ... at least for me.
fuck yeah, berryman. fuck yeah.
