https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1962592.Het_verboden_rijk
Deze ervaringen heeft hij ‘meegenomen’ in zijn poëzie en in zijn proza.In Het verboden rijk worden twee personages opgevoerd.
De 19e-eeuwer ziet op de manier van een deja-vu bekends in bepaalde situaties, een verstilde, schrijvende persoon, die niettemin iets onbenaderbaars heeft.
Het zal te maken hebben met de mores van de perioden waarin de hoofdpersonen optreden.Ik vind de publicatiegeschiedenis van de roman opvallend.
Het verboden rijk werd in eerste instantie aangeboden aan een redacteur van Elsevier.
du Perron met wie hij enkele jaren eerder bevriend was geraakt, en liet zijn roman in afleveringen in Forum publiceren.
One of the delights of working your way though translated fiction award lists is you become exposed to a number of small independent publishers.
“The Forbidden Kingdom” is a case in point, produced by Pushkin Press, they tell us that “this book is part of the Pushkin Collection of paperbacks, designed to be as satisfying as possible to hold and enjoy.
The paper and cover board are both acid-free and approved by the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC).”In other words, this is a beautifully presented work, small in size but the presentation itself is a joy to hold and read.
When I first saw the Best Translated Book Award shortlist this past Tuesday morning the biggest surprise to me was in the inclusion of Jan Jacob Slauerhoff’s 1932 novel The Forbidden Kingdom.
With its many independent sides forever spinning in seemingly different directions, it feels like the literary equivalent of a Rubik’s Cube.
As a reader, just when you think you’ve got one of its colored sides complete, and thus understand at least one facet of what’s occurring, Slauerhoff quickly scrambles things up, leaving you bewildered, perplexed, pissed off …and at least personally speaking… head over heels in love with his brash defiance of the conventional “rules” of storytelling.Okay, fine.
Het leven zou ik zeggen...Het boek van Slauerhoff is erg verwarrend omdat elk hoofdstuk vanuit een verschillend oogpunt beschreven is vanuit een Ik-vorm tot een Hij/zij-vorm wat niet verbonden is aan een bepaald persoon.
Ondanks dat het verhaal lastig te volgen is maakt een uitleg aan het eind van het boek veel duidelijk.
Wellicht dat ik het verhaal beter gevolgd had als ik dit eerst had gelezen, maar dat ga ik niet nog eens proberen.
Wellicht dat het tijdsverschil, dit boek stamt uit de jaren 30, ook bijdraagt aan het verhaal wat tegenwoordig niet goed te volgen is.
3.5 stars
Bit of a lost gem, at least in English.
Exciting nautical adventures, compelling co-main characters, fascinating conceit.
Elliptical, elegant, and subtle.
An attractive pageturner of a story yet simultaneously w/depth of character, formal unconventionality, and many layers.
Confident and often unpretentiously poetic language.
So why not a higher score?
Partly cuz of thinness--incredibly difficult juggling act to fit all this into a short novel, and he succeeds, but does so at a length that some elements didn't quite fully take root in me.
Still, a kickass novel that I might rate even higher if I read Dutch.
This book bears the (sometimes common) distinction of not deserving an honest review unless one has read it twice.
And this is a problem.
The tale is all over the place, but nevertheless I felt compelled to continue reading how the exiled 16th century poet would fare, even though he continued traveling to his inevitable doom.
I was equally compelled by the story of the unnamed 19th century seaman, whose story actually merges with that of the poet, but not in the way one would expect.
Still, the novel meanders unforgivingly, with subplots I could have done without and seem more like the author's afterthoughts.
This is short and always interesting but takes awhile to see what the author is driving at, modernism and all. I picked this up as recommended among the Best Translated Book Award (it was written in Dutch in the 1930s), yet another new prize I've discovered discussed among the book blogs that furnish all sorts of stuff to read that I would likely near have heard (like The Independent Foreign Fiction Prize and the Folio Prize, which George Saunders just won and is supposed to be a more literary Man Book Prize). Good start.
This is a peculiar book: There is love, adventure, battles.
And yet you feel that nothing much is really happening.
The book is even quite boring, but you can't really stop reading because it fascinates.
It was written in the 1930ies, so a few racist or definitely not woman-friendly passages which really grated on my nerves have to be put down to that.
Also, I read it in German translation, so I may have lost a few nuances one could find in the original.
I'm still undecided about it and might have to give it another go in a few years....
I found it very confusing and boring at some times. Some parts interested me, but those were a minority...
KOBOBOOKS
Dropped
