https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/862249.Liberty_or_Love_
Clearly Desnos was a master at tapping into his subconscious at will (as the detailed account of introduction attests), its mysteriousness and urgency setting this easily above Benjamin Peret's boundless, but somewhat limittingly absurd, inventions.
Anyway, it's unexpurgated here, and in the tradition of transgressive literature, it's abuses are arguably more about a general freeing the strange machines of human (albeit here mostly male) desire to candid discussion, than an actual manifesto.
Nonetheless, I should hope that Desnos had chance to revise his feelings on love somewhat before his death a Buchenwald at the end of WWII, grim repayment for his years in the French resistance.
this is what i thought of said book:true love never regrets, it never holds resentments, it believes in the eternal flux of life, it knows that everything, everywhere, into infinity and out changes- that nothing is ever the same, therefore nothing can remain except that which has never remained before.yes, i understand.one of my favorite activities to perform nowadays is that of 'staring into space', and i would do it all the more if it wasn't for the public who condemn such things as 'wastefull'.
(Pero nada que ver)Lo quise leer principalmente porque me dejé llevar por la intrigante vida de Robert Desnos; Los años veintes en París, su participación en el movimiento surrealista, su infortunio en el campo de concentración, sus influencias y amistades, su trágica muerte...También influyó la foto de la hermosa mujer que aparece en la portada (mercadotecnia).
Las primeras y últimas dos hojas son de un papel negro, muy misterioso, que incluyen una fotografía de Robert Desnos, de cuando tenía unos veintitantos años, en la que pareciera estar drogado o poseído por algo.
Hmm. Trippy.
A bit iffy in the s/m'ier parts - fully-realized fantasies of whipping entire boarding schools of teenage girls.
Desnos was part of Andre Breton's Surrealist crew in 1920s Paris (he died just after his release from Buchenwald) so it's recommended if you like passages like this: "She passes.
A trapper approaches her, loaded with sealskins.
He asks her if she knows Mathilde, but she does not.
He gives her a homing-pigeon and each of them follow divergent paths.
In the laboratory of celestial ideas, a pseudo-Soloman of Cos puts the finishing touches to his plans for a perpetual motion machine.
Pasaje psicodelico hacia la interioridad del amor, aventura y Bibedum. La editorial Cabaret Voltaire consistentemente ha lanzado traducciones excelentes de los textos surrealistas y dadaistas y la noval de Desnos no es excepcion.
Probably the best French surrealist novel that I've read.
I believe the most beautiful text of surrealism.
