https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1169073.My_Life_in_the_Bush_of_Ghosts
This old edition uses the insulting word 'primitive', but almost as a form of praise.
This is a sort of Bildungsroman where a young boy flees bands of slave-traders and hides in the African bush.
The land is populated by strange ghosts (here meaning spirits, not only the deceased), with freakish forms and unknown motives.
Their names, too, are strange - 'Skulls', 'Give and Take', 'H.M. The King of the Bush of Ghosts'.
He is mistaken for a ghosts' dead father, he grows eyes and becomes a god.
It might be 'fantasy', but that too is a limiting word for it.
The ferocious dead babies crawling on the road to the "Dead's Town" meet their match in the "Burglar-ghost" here: (view spoiler)[ It's a kind of ghost who enters a pregnant woman's womb & is delivered by her as her own child & who, after charming that family with his rapid growth, remains sickly throughout so that the family would spend a lot of money & goods as offerings to placate the gods, but the burglar baby would use his supernatural powers to stash away those offerings in a secret place & when the family is financially ruined, it would pretend to be dead & after burial would retrieve all that loot & be on his merry way back to the bush of ghosts, so if you hear that "a woman is delivering babies who die always or continuously, then believe, we are those babies and all the earthly people are calling such a baby "born and die"." (P.55)  (hide spoiler)]In the mechanics of this bush of ghosts, Tutuola's imagination blends with the mythology of West African tribal life so that this ghost world is presented as an elaborate system of some parallel world.
This review has been moved to Samir's Critical Corner here.
DO NOT READ THE "Foreword" TO THIS BOOK!
While I enjoyed this unusual book very much, I found the Foreword extremely offensive.
To me the Foreword also spoiled other aspects of the book.
In my culturally conditioned world super-natural experiences are met with close-minded skepticism, but in Amos Tutuola's book they are described with an unquestioning matter-of-factness that is exciting and very interesting.
Just as the author describes a time before he was familiar with the notions of "good" and "bad", the lack of such simple discrimination, as well as a lack of moralistic preaching is wonderfully refreshing!
He is too young even to know the meanings of "good" and "evil", but escapes by accident into the human-forbidden bush of ghosts, where the spirits walk, and he will find himself pursued by fearful specters, changed in form, worshipped as a god, and taking part in strange rites.
Conveyed in the conversational tones of spoken Nigerian English and drawn from the rich, otherworldly mythology of his colliding Yoruba/Christian-upbringing, Tutuola's novel is seemingly unique in literature: a sort of effortless home-grown African surrealism, rich and memorable.
I'd really like to know how much of this is purely Tutuola's imagination versus cultural memory.
No me ha gustado. Tiene su gracia, pero a pesar de lo corto que es, se me ha hecho interminable.
Perhaps that is where you start.I've never read a book like this before.My Life in the Bush of Ghosts is a fascinating adventure through the landscape of a mysterious civilization hidden in the West African forest.
I don't think that is true of stories that settle into realism - at least not in the same way.What struck me as quite bizarre about this book was the pacing.
Before I do that, though, I'll likely read Tutuola's other work, The Palm-Wine Drinkered, and see if it, maybe, helps me understand the approach used in this book.Recommended for those interested in exploring a totally different method of story-telling.
The stories contained herein (it's essentially a novel in stories) run the gamut of funny to horrifying, and Tutuola's masterful manipulation of the English is a delight.Let me reiterate that last point.
Tutuola's masterful manipulation of the English.
Honestly, I don't know if they have a new edition yet, but the blurbs on the back of the book and the introduction make me cringe and cry and beat my chest.
It can be difficult to read, as it is heavily colored (zing!).
A must-read.
Budući da sam ovu potpuno nasumično "pokupio", pročitavši piščevu biografiju na kraju knjige, iznenadilo me što sam, bez predrasuda, počeo i dovršio čitanje iste.
Što, zapravo, predstavlja ulaz u "šumu duhova" tj.
Nakon dvadeset četiri godine, prolaska beskonačnih iskušenja i dva braka po običajima duhova iz "šume", momak na kraju čudnim spletom okolnosti dospeva pod isto ono zapis drvo gde je i ušao u "šumu" (ponovo, moja asocijacija sa završetkom Danteovog "Pakla", kada izlazi sa Vergilijem na brdašce "da gledaju zvezde") i gde ga pronalaze i odvode u roblje, kada spoznaje da, zapravo, služi sopstvenom bratu.
From the reviews of others, my initial reaction (as a Westerner) to this book seems a common one: WTF am I reading?!
Actually, the adventures of the twins Hunahpú and Xbalanqué from the Popol Vuh are probably the closest thing I've read to "My Life in the Bush of Ghosts" in terms of atmosphere.So, a seven-year-old boy escapes from soldiers and unknowingly wanders into the spirit world.
There is little in the way of plot, other than the boy's desire to return to earthly life, but it is in the reader's exposure to the surreal world of non-conscious experience that the book's power lies.
there is some contention that the author merely is transcribing Yoruba myths on his particular voice (mostly west-African spoken English) but he is simply building this fantastic quest of return...this follows the narrator through adventures in ‘the bush’, going from town to town, from monstrous and magical, when he comes to know them, lives there for apparent years then escapes to their next town, river ghosts and the marriage under the river, 20 th town of ghosts, short ghosts and their flash-eyed mother, then the ‘television-handed ghosts’...
For other books that might better suit the unadventurous Western lib arts educated dabbler and that work with the cosmological idea of a "bush of ghosts," read Helen Oyeyemi or Nnedi Okoroafor.
But I do want to address the egotistical numpties who say stupid things such as "people who like this book are only working out their colonialist guilt." Tutuola's is an unique, iconic and magical work, and no more primitive than, say, Ulysses.
And it has the great advantage that you will discover very quickly whether or not you like it, and you can always put the book down and leave it for others to enjoy.
Wanted to like this book. Didn't. The best thing about it by far is the title (which is epically great). More interesting in concept than execution. The fact that there are some who absolutely love it smacks of post-colonial guilt-inspired patronization to me: it's just not very well-written or especially engaging.Skip the book, get the album of the same name by Brian Eno and David Byrne. That really is great.
Difficult to review. Probably a lot of that is due to my comparative ignorance of African culture and lit. The whole book is so deeply steeped in African culture, beliefs, mythology that I have very little authoritative to say. Sudden, visceral. You should read this one.
"This is what hatred did."
I’ve never quite read a book like this.
The story begins with a young Nigerian boy, too young to understand concepts of “good” and “bad”, and his escape from a gang of slavers into the African bush - the forbidden bush of ghosts.
These encounters, as in mythological traditional, often coincide with the boy himself shape-shifting into a variety of forms and creatures.
These encounters that comprise the adventure in this story do not really progress linearly at all, and neither is there much character development.
Can't believe it took me so long to notice where David Byrne/Brian Eno got their album title from: My Life in the Bush of Ghosts.
It's weird and it's wild. It's the folklore of an aboriginal religion that was very nearly killed. Thanks to this book, and the tenacity of it's people many of it's values survived. This is a fascinating look into culture raised in the shadow of deep dark jungle. Reach the end, and you'll find an even deeper message about the morality of a time, and the destruction of a people.
Still, I can at least appreciate that hearsay from afar, as well as enjoy my mental wanderings down intricate pathways such as the underlying narrative similarities between this and The Journey to the West, and how this text's references to TPWD make for a more complex experience rendered strange by my own half remembered tidbits of plot and pathos.
I've already overworked my analytical appreciation more than I usually do in order to give this work a fair review, so any further rhapsodizing on themes and imagery will have to be done by another, hopefully more enthusiastic soul.I'll be honest and say that I likely won't be picking up any more of Tutola's works until I have far more relevant critical faculties at my disposal.
A series of surreal, bizarre encounters with ghosts and their towns in the bush of ghosts.
The narrator, lost in the bush of ghosts by the age of seven endures being persecuted by the Deads in myriad ways (from forced domestic servitude to being trapped and body elongated in a occult pitcher through which he is forced to eat strange meats) befriended by some (such as the "Super-Lady" he later marries) and witness to a thousand weirderies.
He meets HM, King of the Bush of Ghosts.
Part Lewis Carroll and part H.P. Lovecraft if Lovecraft were born in the Congo or Cameroon and his pantheon of ancient evils were spread and sprinkled over a thousand haunted towns.
The so-called “ungrammatical” nature of Tutuola’s writing did not bother me, but his use of repetition did, as it was not used for rhythmic effect, but simply as filler, as if he was repeating a sentence he said a paragraph ago to make sure the reader heard correctly.I did find some deeper meaning to the text, such as the fear of outsiders (apparent on 165 esp.) and it can be read as an allegory for the pain of hatred (last line), but those themes were not interesting nor present enough for me to take the work as symbolic.
A disapointing read for me. I call this type of work "and then" fiction, meaning there is little to no character or plot development, merely a series of episodes ("...then XXX happened, and then YYY happened...") told towards no discernible purpose or meaning.To the book's credit, often these episodes are impressive for the depth of imagination on display - such as when the narrator gets turned into a cow and has to find a way back to human form - but overall the whole thing just felt boring.
I had wanted to read this book for so long and it was a huge disappointment. It's like reading a child's description of a long, ridiculous dream. Approaching unreadable at times. It's essentially the same 5 pages of story on repeat with minor detail tweaks. You could call it imaginative, but I'd call it boring. Having said that I'm still glad I read it, even just to get it out of the system.
some books need to be spoken aloud, instead of spoken in the mind. this is one.
I had never been to Africa when I'd read, "My Life in the Bush of Ghosts", but I was convinced it was populated by human beings with the same basic wants, desires and beliefs in Jesus that I had.
I honestly didn't know this until I read it online five minutes ago, but the Author was condemned in his native Nigeria for reinforcing the notion that Africans were backward.
The book was written in 1950 and I think all black people were expected to speak like Sidney Potier.
Amos Tutuola, on his birthday June 20 Author of surrealist fantasies written with a musical lyricism, the whispers of a strange and subversive dreamtime, his stories highly personalized reshapings of archaic myths, in a free and Joycean prose; championed by Dylan Thomas, influencer of Wole Soyinka and indeed all subsequent anticolonialist literature, Amos Tutuola is a foundational figure of African literature and with Soyinka and Achebe one its three great masters.
His nine novels and many short stories are a stunning reimagination of traditional Yoruba mythology and Nigerian folktales, luminous, grotesque, a treasure of quirks and beautiful surprises.
An unfortunate disappointment as I had been looking forward to this book for some time. I had heard of it years ago from a source I don't recall and finally ordered it from the library. It's far too aimless which leads to a general distance and disinterest in the material. I attempted to extract a foundation for moral allegory though even that felt forced as the protagonist's adventures appear little more than purposeless, dream-like ramblings.I'm saddened to say that I just couldn't find it worth while.
Complicato, sicuramente. Leggendolo sentivo di non avere tutti i mezzi per capirlo. Sicuramente è stato difficile progredire, anche a causa dello stile singhiozzante. Sembra non seguire un filo logico, anche se si capisce che in realtà l'autore aveva in mente un percorso.Complimenti alla traduttrice, perché dev'essere stata sicuramente un'impresa difficile.
Nos cuenta la turbulenta historia de un pequeño que se pierde en la profundidad de un bosque habitado por toda clase de fantasmas y vive un sinnúmero de horrores. Cada vivencia es dedicada y bellamente descrita, haciendo que las palabras se transformen en imágenes mentales de lo que sucede durante el viaje de nuestro personaje. Es impredecible y no dejó de sorprenderme hasta el final.
Хорошая притча, не слишком сложная, но непривычная представителю западной культуры.
