https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16033842-la-v-rit-sur-l-affaire-harry-quebert
In no particular order, and with plenty of spoilers, probably - it's not as if I care- writers are NOT interesting main characters, and this one in particular takes the cherry; self-absorbed, vain, narcissistic, with every sycophantic character telling him how wonderful, talented, smart, 'Magnificent' (sic!!!) he is - and that goes for the OTHER writer in the book, Harry Québert, whose 15-year old lover seemed to have been put on this earth only to fawn over, praise and massage his ego.
You know that thing when you get your hands on the latest 600 page literary blockbuster, full of excitement and anticipation?
However, in the back of your brain you are very aware of the many international literary awards this book has clocked up, the fact that it has been translated into 32 different languages and been reviewed gushingly over and over again - so you just know that any minute now you will be gobsmacked by it’s erudite insight and finely crafted words.Soon you realize that you are 350 pages into it and the much-lauded literary merit is yet to smack you between the eyes, but perhaps the prosaic writing, two-dimensional characters, improbable plot and editorial oversights are all part of some cunning device that you are clearly not enlightened enough to understand.Then you find that you’ve finished it and there was no cunning device, just every ridiculous story twist and red herring that the author could possibly come up with.
La Vérité sur la verité sur l'affaire Harry Quebert"Reading bestsellers is like boxing, Marcus.
They can both cause brain damage."*********************************"But wait," said Gahalowood.
That's why the narrator is an author who can't write and doesn't have an idea in his head except that he wants to be a successful writer.
I'm sure it's put me off reading bestsellers for at least the next five years."Gahalowood nodded thoughtfully.
"Yes," he said.
After all, the author has written a bestseller.
"Yes," he said to his unknown interlocutor.
What else could he do but write this book?""You explain it so well!" said Gahalowood.
Thirty-three years ago a college English professor/famous author from New Hampshire fell in love with a 15-year old girl.
The younger author, the book’s main character, sets out to prove his mentor’s innocence and our mystery begins.
With both main characters being famous authors, the older mentor to the younger, we learn a lot about the writing process, creative inspiration, technique, writer’s block, etc.
Imagine if someone tries to kill you – you could add another zero to the sales figures….two if you actually die.”“As long as I die after finishing the book.”“That goes without saying.”The writing is good, not great, but, hey, it’s a mystery/detective novel.
And it's not only a crime story, it's a book about life, love, mistakes made ('Learn to love your failures Markus, because it is your failures that will make you who you are.
It's about a summer in New Hampshire, in small town Somerset, when struggling author Harry Quebert fell in love with 15-year old Nola Kellergan, a forbidden love.
Made me think of John Irving's Garp, must be because of the setting New Hampshire, but also the sports, boxing instead of wrestling, but close, and the weird set of characters.
This book is, without a doubt, the worst thing I've read in many years. The fact that it was published at all boggles the mind. Honestly...I want my money back. Christ but it's terrible. Joel Dicker should never publish another novel again. Or write anything. Even a grocery list. Or speak. He should go live in a monastery in the woods and never bother anyone again. Dear lord. Make it stop.
The Notebook then?)And for all that this is about the amazing love affair betwen Harry Quebert and Nola (SEE!
CLEVER-BOOTS??) and we're supposed to sympathize with Harry for his epic tale of love and loss, IT IS STILL ABOUT A 35 YEAR OLD MAN HAVING AN AFFAIR WITH A 15 YEAR OLD GIRL.
I'm sorry, I'm just not going to get past the fact that we're supposed to sympathize with an hebephile who thinks a teenager was the love of his life.
Even allowing for the differences between dialogue in movies and books and reality, the dlalogue is clunky and awkward at best and just down right mindbogglingly bad at worst.
Reto #50 PopSugar 2018: Un libro recomendado por alguien más que este realizando el Popsugar Reading Challenge Concuerdo plenamente con la sinopsis del libro y creo que es su mejor característica: La verdad sólo llega al final de un largo, intrincado y apasionante recorrido. A los pocos capítulos es imposible no darse cuenta que esta será de esas novelas en que la gracia es acompañar al personaje principal en el descubrimiento de pistas y más pistas que permitirán resolver el misterio, mientras
A los pocos capítulos es imposible no darse cuenta que esta será de esas novelas en que la gracia es acompañar al personaje principal en el descubrimiento de pistas y más pistas que permitirán resolver el misterio, mientras el autor, cada pocos capítulos –y con muy buen manejo de saltos en el tiempo–, desvía la atención por innumerables sospechosos.La verdad, lo he pasado en grande con este libro ya que disfruto mucho con este tipo de lecturas.
les - : Cet ouvrage, qui a tout de même reçu le prix du roman de l'académie française et goncourt des lycéens, n'a AUCUN style littéraire, je sais pas à quoi je m'attendais mais j'avoue être très déçue...
Les caractères des personnages sont peu décrits et peu travaillés.
Les descriptions sont risibles, la scène de rencontre entre Nola et Quebert pourrait sortir d'un roman de Daniel Steel...
Quoi qu' elle aurait probablement prit la peine de décrire les sentiments: ici, on sait juste que Quebert a eu le coup de foudre en voyant les remous des vagues frôler les jambes de la damoiselle...
There’s essentially three stories here: - Two men’s individual struggle to write a book- An older man’s love for a 15 year old girl- The mystery surrounding the murder of the 15 year old girlYes, they’re all linked – but it sometimes feels like a hodgepodge of styles: maybe Jonathan Franzen meets Mills and Boon, meets Agatha Christie?It’s long: over 600 pages in print and in excess of 20 hours of audio.
Marcus Goldman travels to Somerset, the New Hampshire town of his college professor, Harry Quebert, to attempt to unlock something that will enable him to write a follow–up to his first, highly successful, book.
L'histoire d'amour autour de laquelle tourne tout le roman n'est absolument pas décrite en dehors de nombreux dialogues mièvres si bien qu'il est impossible d'être touché par cette histoire.
Si l'auteur veut parler d'une histoire entre un homme de trente et une fille de quinze ans, alors qu'il prenne la peine de nous montrer comment cet homme a pu tomber amoureux d'elle autrement qu'en nous répétant que la fille en question est extraordinaire.
L'une des révélations les plus importante ne tient absolument pas la route et se base sur un malentendu grotesque, prouvant qu'aucune personnage ne réagit de façon réaliste.
I've always had a weakness for mystery books. In this story every character matters, every subplot is related, and Joel Dicker creates one of the best modern dark novels. It is more than just a Who killed Nola Kellergan? and yet, that is the question that will travel with you through all the pages. A novel that will swallow you completely. A story about sickness, love, sadness, books and hidden pasts. A victory for any writer. Well done Dicker. «Todo el mundo sabe escribir, pero no todo el mundo
Me encantan los libros donde por la primera mitad de la historia no sabes ni que jodidos esta pasando, y en las últimas páginas, absolutamente todas las piezas encajan perfecto.
Tuve la buena suerte de nacer siendo una lectora muy paciente, porque así pude disfrutar de La verdad sobre el caso Harry Quebert a mis anchas.La pluma de Joel Dicker me encanto.
Tiene una forma de narrar que hasta el pasado del personaje secundario más aburrido parecía sumamente interesante.
La historia empieza con una trama muy básica y conforme avanzas salen a la luz tantas subtramas tan interesantes que directa o indirectamente estarán ligadas con nuestro caso: QUIEN MATO A NOLA KELLERGAN?
The inhabitants of Aurora seem typical of any small village; endowed with the natural virtues and vices and small-town life; they are friendly, nosy about each other's affairs, yet understanding, even respectful, of each other's privacy (if such a privacy exists in a small village), and as is the case in any small town, and especially those described in crime novels, newcomers almost always carry a deeper past with them.Though the book is more action than description, yet the characters and the events occuring in the past are chronicled in such a way that one feels as if he was part of that fateful 1975 summer.What felt a bit unsettling, in my opinion, was that the recalling of past events did not create in me this feeling of mystery one anxiously anticipates following the deep-digging in crime novels.
Y ahora llegan los peros: Repetitivo hasta la nausea, tramposo, nos cuenta la misma trama que no avanza durante 700 páginas escritas con simpleza.
Yo misma la hubiese ahogado en el mar con sus malditas gaviotas!
Por no hablar de la trama insufrible y pretenciosa de los dos escritores inanes, los anónimos cursis que pretender infundir miedo,las lecciones de Harry que a nadie interesan...Un truño impresionante convertido por obra y gracia del tipping point en un hype que en España nadie se atreverá a criticar porque los intelectuales lo adorarán.
Casi tanto como las Sombras de Grey.
Spectacularly terrible! It's absolutely mind boggling to me that this was a runaway success and prize winner in France. From the very first pages you can tell that the dialogue is atrocious and the story cliched almost to the point of offensiveness, and it certainly doesn't get any better as the book unfolds. What on earth do people see in this book? It's not possible that it is *that* much better in the original French, right?
Como noir es terrible. Desastroso. Como lectura de camastro es triunfal. Dios santo… podría empezar a enumerar la cantidad cosas que están tan mal en este libro, pero… No, olvídenlo. Mejor sí las voy a listar. ¿Qué es lo que hace a un libro bueno? Y estoy hablando de ficción de género, no ficción literaria. En realidad, siendo totalmente objetivos, para que un libro sea ‘bueno’ tiene que exceder las expectativas en tres cosas muy pequeñas: trama, prosa y caracterización. Y nada más. No es algo t
En realidad, siendo totalmente objetivos, para que un libro sea ‘bueno’ tiene que exceder las expectativas en tres cosas muy pequeñas: trama, prosa y caracterización.
Sin embargo, Dicker tiene fallos en cada una de las tres, aunque en su favor voy a decir que donde menos tiene es en trama.
Dicker tiene una idea de pasada de la idiosincrasia gringa, y parece que está escribiendo para alimentar la idea que el europeo promedio tiene del estadounidense.
Otro error es que una de las subtramas (para no spoilear, tiene algo de psiquiátrico) es demasiado… jalada.
Toda una joya de novela negra/policial/thriller, desde el primer capítulo te atrapa en una historia llena de giros argumentales, pasión y engaños.Debo decir que nunca me había pasado que un libro me sorprendiera tanto con un final, en el que realmente no me imaginaba quien era el asesino.
Este libro se ha convertido en uno de mis favoritos este año, pero sí tuve un problema grande con el y fueron sus personajes femeninos que realmente me resultaron insulsos y cansinos, toda su vida giraba en torno a los hombres y para mi eran demasiado machistas como para conectarme y sentir un poco de empatía por ellas.
Pero, la verdad es un libro tan bueno que lo dejaré pasar por alto.
I believe this is the worst book I've ever read; granted, I don't read a lot of bad books.
If a book is terrible or if I'm just not enjoying it, I don't finish it - life is too short.
Mysteries that are more mysterious than the "mystery" at the heart of this book:Is this a terrible novel or just a terrible English translation?How did this become an international bestseller?
Europe alone produces tons of excellent crime fiction, so why did everyone lose their minds over this piece of garbage?Is the writer a misogynist or just a really bad writer?
Did anyone fact check this book?
I feel like I have been on a long journey, and this book was a journey, through red herrings, changing accounts from many different people, through a poignant friendship and an illicit love.
Writer's and writers block, the 31 things one needs to know to write an outstanding novel.
There was quite a bit of repetition as people repeated or told what they knew, from many different perspectives.
A good if long book, one needs to be patient and let it all unwrap.
I was right about only 1 1/2 things, the rest I was clueless."Books are like life, Marcus.They never really end."And so it was.
Joel Dicker is a 27-year-old Swiss writer whose "La Vérité sur L'Affaire Harry Quebert" has recently won two prestigious literary prizes and become a bestseller here in France.
Its success, I think, results from being a complex and engrossing piece of detective fiction, involving novelists no less, and being set in America, where, according to the book jacket, Dicker has traveled extensively.
Items found with her body lead to the arrest of Harry Quebert, a famous novelist.
Marcus' mother is such an overdrawn stereotype of the Jewish mother and Tamara Quinn of a ditsy small-town woman that we begin to feel we have wandered into a Monty Python movie rather than a work of gritty detective fiction.
¿Que los críticos apuntan a Nabokov, Philip Roth o Stieg Larsson (o algún otro autor de novela negra nórdica)?
Tampoco digo que sea un mal libro, pero para jugar en la 'liga de los clásicos' hacen falta otros mimbres.
El argumento me gusta, sobre todo la parte menos policiaca de la trama, aunque en mi opinión la obsesión del autor por 'cerrar círculos' hace que la conclusión luzca innecesariamente artificiosa.
Como novela policiaca, los recursos utilizados en la tercera parte me resultaron más próximos al truco de trilero que a la resolución magistral.
MANNY: Hello and welcome back to our continuing coverage of Let's Trash Joël Dicker Week.
Manny, let's hear what you think.MANNY: But I haven't got to the--MANNY: I said that's enough.
Manny, let go of me!MANNY: You were going to explain Not's feminist take on this passage.MANNY: I -- ow!!
Literature as a form of -- Jesus Christ, can't you see I'm trying to cooperate here?MANNY: A form of...?MANNY: Rape!
Okay, that's it for Let's Trash Joël Dicker Week and thank you very much for joining us.
Aún sigo tratando de asimilar todo lo que ha pasado en esta novela.Lo primero que quiero mencionar es la manera que tiene de atrapar al lector.
Yo he juzgado mal a algunos personajes de la historia y aún sigo en shock por lo enrevesado que era todo.Los personajes me han parecido bastante buenos, pero no quiero decir con eso que me cayeran bien.
En mi vida me hubiera imaginado que esta historia acabaría así y aún sigo en shock xD.Por último, sólo mencionar que recomiendo este libro a todo el mundo porque es maravilloso y que le doy 5 estrellas.
Nola tem quinze anos e apaixona-se por um homem de trinta.
Talvez seja possível...É assassinada logo no início ( e ainda bem porque, assim, não tive de a aturar muito).
Harry tem trinta anos e apaixona-se por uma miúda de quinze.
Há muito tempo que não lia uma coisa tão mal escrita.
Estou a rir-me...Resumindo - Eu devia era levar uma marretada na cabeça, por perder o meu precioso tempo a ler estas bodegas, e para aprender, de vez, a controlar o impulso de comprar livros que prometem a felicidade...
Creo que uno de los factores que forman un buen libro de misterio es lo natural, lo ordinario, es hacer creer al lector que casi nada es sospechoso, porque si todo lo es, no hay forma de sorprender.
En esta novela la totalidad de sus personajes actúan de maneras un tanto inverosímiles a fin de mantener una intriga que no se logra nunca, no realmente, porque el simple hecho de que no haya un buen balance entre confianza y sospecha la ahoga.
El lector nunca "baja la guardia" y de ese modo lo confiable deja de serlo, y así no hay modo de sorprenderlo.
🇬🇧 «Fly, you fools!»Short comment:   an intriguing beginning, second fourth indigestible, third fourth unbearable, last fourth half unbearable, half acceptable. Characters stupid, egocentric, superficial, unbearable. Unacceptable romance, insubstantial literary story, mystery that resumes in the final. A great flop.   Longer comment (possible spoilers):  Each chapter begins with a "advice" that the famous Harry Quebert gives to his pupil Marcus during his life. Each advice occupies one page. Was
Longer comment (possible spoilers):   Each chapter begins with a "advice" that the famous Harry Quebert gives to his pupil Marcus during his life.
Non c’è un minimo approfondimento del carattere dei personaggi, neanche dello stesso protagonista, CHE VUOLE SCRIVERE UNA STORIA BASATA SU UNA STORIA D’AMORE.
Ora, capisco che non si possa leggere nella mente di Harry, essendo già tutto lo scritto dal punto di vista di Marcus.
Ha scritto un libro, ha avuto successo, ha speso tutto quello che ha guadagnato e si lamenta perché, dopo due anni nel lusso, ora non ha più soldi.
¿Quien mató a Nola Kellergan ó quien se &/%$ a Nola Kellergan?Partimos de la premisa clásica de no saber quien rayos mató a determinado personaje, por momento pensamos que esto será el tema principal del libro pero de momentos esta idea se debate por quien se acostó con Nola o quien abusó de ella, lo que te deja bastante confundido la verdad.El personaje de Nola está completamente sexualizado.
Siendo menor de edad el autor se mete en aguas pantanosas en este aspecto y creo que no supo manejar esa trama específicamente.No obstante es un libro policíaco por excelencia, cumple con todos los elementos del genero y mantiene el suspense hasta el final que es totalmente inesperado.
Inoltre, le brevi frasi/insegnamenti di vita/professione che aprono ogni capitolo sono molto interessanti.Secondo punto: questa "scorrevolezza" della lettura è dovuta non solo a un linguaggio ben costruito, ironico in alcuni passaggi e non pesante, ma anche dal ritmo incalzante dato alla vicenda (cui si aggiunge anche la realizzazione ben fatta del libro nel libro).
I colpi di scena: sono tanti, alcuni anche inattesi e inaspettati, ma, ad un certo punto della narrazione, diventano troppi, si viene quasi sommersi dai fatti non spiegati, taciuti, mal interpretati, ect.… anche meno… e dove siamo?!Passando rapidamente a Marcus, il protagonista, sebbene possa non risultare simpatico (per lui quel motivetto pubblicitario "ti piace vincere facile?!" calza davvero a pennello), è sfaccettato e la sua crescita è evidente anche nel corso del libro.
"EpílogoUm bom livro, Marcus, não se mede apenas pelas últimas palavras, mas pelo efeito colectivo de todas as que as precederam.
Cerca de meio segundo depois de terminar o livro, depois de ler a última palavra, o leitor deve sentir-se dominado por um sentimento poderoso; por um instante, só deve pensar em tudo o que acaba de ler, olhar para a capa e sorrir com uma ponta de tristeza porque vai sentir a falta das personagens.
Absolutes Highlight !
