https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/292113.The_Private_Life_Of_Sherlock_Holmes
This is one of the books in Otto Penzler’s Sherlock Holmes Library, a reissue of eight previously hard to find classics from the earlier age of Sherlockiana, it was originally published in 1933.
The Real Sherlock Holmes discusses Doyle’s true-life crime investigations, a subject which has since resulted in several detailed books.
Starrett praises Arthur Wontner (one of my personal favorites) with the sentence: “Surely no better Sherlock Holmes than Arthur Wontner is likely to be seen and heard in pictures, in our time.” Fine words, indeed!
Starrett spends a great deal of time sharing his research on the Holmes canon, including the backgrounds of the stories and the timeline – if one can be established.
What he also does is provide the necessary background to each tale so that it all makes sense in the end.
They don’t seem to be in print, but they are referred to in many of the stories, including: “Upon the Distinction Between the Ashes of the Various Tobaccos,” “Upon the Tracing of Footsteps,” and “Upon the Influence of a Trade Upon the Form of the Hand.” These are only a few that are mentioned.
There is a great deal covered in this relatively short book, including a couple of quizzes and several bibliographies.
If you love Sherlock Holmes and Dr. Watson (in particular the hawk-nosed Holmes and mustachioed doctor), then this book is for you.I'd first heard of Vincent Starrett in conjunction with his poem, "221B," and this book of essays showcases the same love for Holmes and Watson that's reflected in the poem.
It was amusing to read about the time John Watson became James Watson, or how Watson's wife goes completely unmentioned for many stories when she should at least make an appearance on the sidelines.
(However, Holmes' eye-color was always consistent: grey.)Highly recommended for all Holmesians!
In good faith I gave the book 3 stars.
I really wanted to just give it two stars but I think that is mainly because I was expecting one thing from the book and got another.
My opinion was that I was going to read a book about the origins of Sherlock Holmes, the characters, cases, etc.
For Sherlock fans out there, this could be the book for you so don't let my opinion discourage you from reading.
Not all books are for everyone, and apparently that is the case with The Private Life of Sherlock Holmes for me.
Not *quite* what I expected, but still an enjoyable read. Amazingly (or not so amazingly?) I knew most of the "trivia" type stuff. I think what I most appreciated was the list of all of the cases *mentioned* but never written about, as well as a list of all of Holmes' writings (on bees, tatoos, and tobacco, to name a few).
The single best work of Sherlockian criticism -- not a pastiche, exactly, though it does include one of the two greatest short pastiches ever written, "The Adventure of the Unique Hamlet." One of the few books that should stand on the shelf next to the COMPLETE SHERLOCK HOLMES.
Flunked the fifty page test.For Holmes junkies.
I was thinking it would be something other than what it was. Still it was interesting.

This includes topics like what 221b looked like, speculations on Holmes's early history, Holmes and Watsons' routines and the teased-but-unpublished Holmes mysteries.The other aspect focuses on the non-fictional side of the story, including the inspiration behind Holmes's methods, Doyle's own detective work, fan reception to The Final Problem, and the plays, parodies and illustrations of the work.While Starrett's prose is somewhat irritatingly flowery, the book for the most part is an enjoyable read.
Holmes's fictional biography may require a bit more familiarity with the canon, but the way Starrett manages to flesh out Holmes and Watson as if they were real people makes those chapters a fascinating read.However, the topics dealing with adaptations of the work were rather uninteresting.
Starrett writes of Holmes with such care and love.
The book contains a variety of material about the Sherlock Holmes books, all beautifully written and researched.Anyone involved in any fandom will find the chapter about the Baker Street Irregulars completely charming.
I read the 1975 paperback edition which has a bit of additional material that isn't in the earlier editions, including a lovely account of Starrett's life.
The book is not particularly easy to find, but there are usually some used copies for sale on Amazon.
If you're a Sherlockian, it's well worth your effort to track down a copy of this book.
This is the 75th anniversary edition.
Some of the items removed after the initial publication have been reinstated in this version.
I read this over 25 years earlier and loved it.
Part fiction, part biography, part investigation of what makes Sherlock Holmes so beloved years after original publication, this is written by a man who loved the Canon as much as anyone alive.
If you are a true fan of the original stories or don’t know much beyond the various filmed adaptations but would like to know more, this is worth your time and money.
Charming book that every Sherlockian needs to get under their belt.
Easy, engaging read.
It was published in 1930, and I was completely tickled every time Starrett said something like "these adventures happened 35 long years ago." [paraphrasing of course] This book makes a good companion read to Baring-Gould; actually I sort of wish I had read this one first as a quick intro.
My only criticism, and it is so minor, is that I wish the edition I had featured more illustrations.
I was running to the Google every time Starrett mentioned different illustrators or actors who had portrayed Holmes.
Eh. I label this one for more die-hard Holmes fans. I like Sherlock Holmes, but I really would rather read spin-offs of the tales than the original ones. Blasphemy, I know. It was still interesting, but there were so many things I just didn't understand. The author certainly assumes that I come from his time period and have read all the Holmes stories, along with seen all the spin-off plays and various other parodies.
Wonderful book! A fascinating extension of the canonical facts written with warmth and humour. I borrowed this book from Gladstone's Library where I stayed for the weekend. I liked it so much I'm going to seek out my own copy. Incidentally, the last chapter, a new adventure for Sherlock Holmes written by Starrett himself, dovetailed nicely with the other book I read here, concerning books, book bindings and forgeries. A very bookish weekend.
The first part of the book, with the history of Sir Arthur, and some "biographical" info about Holmes was very interesting. Then the author goes on at length about parodies, theater versions, and art renderings, and this part was really boring!!!! So that's why I gave it 3 stars. I don't think Watson had 3 wives like some others have said. This author asserted he had just the one, Mary Morsten.
Interesting read for "Sherlockians"I recommend this book as a "must-read" for readers of the Sherlock Holmes stories. I was particularly fascinated by the authors view of the relationship between Holmes and his creator, Sir Arthur Conan Doyle. It would seem the author, over time, came to dislike his truly great fictional detective.
Profound bed time story.A rather mundane but at the same time peculiar take on the ACD stories, wherein it tackles Holmes's erratic habits, love for opera and his violin, the state of 221b and Watson's gift of narration.
Very good book of Holmes scholarship and analysis.
I must have read this like eight times in college. Beautiful crackfic before the invention of crackfic.
Interesting read for fans of Sherlock Holmes.
If you want to consider yourself a proper "Sherlockian" you must ensure you possess and read diligently this masterful work. Easy to get for a few dollars online and absolutely indispensable.
One of the first fan-written biographies of Sherlock, it's full of intimate details that you can see echoed through the years into modern pastiches.
After you have enjoyed the book, you must view film based on this novel and directed by Billy Wilder and starring Robert Stephens as Sherlock Holmes.
I love the ending of this book. I can say without giving anything away that the meeting with Queen Victoria is priceless.
