https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/359194.The_Lucifer_Effect
And though he never outright asks it, every page of his book prompts the impossible question: What kind of monster are you?Zimbardo spends nearly 500 pages supporting an argument that’s convincing by page two: Situations entice people to commit heroic acts and unspeakable atrocities alike.
It took thirty years before the military recognized his heroic deeds… Paradoxically, Lieutenant Calley (an orchestrator of the massacre) was treated as a hero.”Certainly people are to blame for the moral crimes they commit, and yet it seems somehow flippant to assume that all people can avoid the blameworthy road, that all people are capable of risking hardship or death to resist descending into evil--especially when submitting to situational demands is the psychologically normal (and perhaps healthy) thing to do.
Zimbardo fucked up, BIG TIME.  During the "Stanford Prison Experiment," an experiment he created, he was part of the actual testing and also became victim to the traps the other participants fell into. The idea was to separate the participants into two groups, guards and prisoners with Zimbardo taking the role of prison overseer in a monitored environment. But things quickly went from weird to damn right unethical. Instead of simply playing the roles assigned to them, everybody involved actuall
The idea was to separate the participants into two groups, guards and prisoners with Zimbardo taking the role of prison overseer in a monitored environment.
But he still used the findings of the experiment to theorise why it actually happened and considered how normal people can become violent and evil so quickly.
The men adapted to their roles all too quickly and the power given to the guards was theirs to exploit at their own will.
His assumptions on his own experiments are grounded, though he takes them much further afield and considers many violent prisons.
The author did not attempt to eliminate his personal biases (even embracing them, calling himself a "bleeding heart liberal" at one point), which really bothered me, since the book was presented as an unbiased view of social behavior as it relates to situational forces.
The subject WAS very interesting, but I'd recommend it to a limited audience - those who are schooled in social psychology and/or prison societies, who are comfortable diving into scientific literature, and who won't mind the liberal spin that Zimbardo includes.
I, after a couple of weeks, have finally finished “The Lucifer Effect.” I normally don’t dog ear books because, well, that’s almost sacrilegious, but there were points that I knew I wanted to come back to.
This is why surprise, surprise the people, who committed those “you can not believe they did that” acts against prisoners at Abu Ghraib, while responsible for their actions, aren’t solely to blame.
I’m glad that I did, because of the social implications and discoveries that you get from these chapters of basic “setup” or “premise,” it really gives you a more in depth understanding of what happens later in the book.Very interesting read although a bit tough at times.
See, I guess at some point he put together some kind of massive 26-episode series of half-hour lectures on how the mind works for public TV.
The first 200 pages of this book are given over to a description of the infamous Stanford Prison Experiment (SPE).
I suspect that very few people (or the kind of people reading this book) are unaware of the SPE, so summarizing the main findings in 20-30 pages should have been possible, instead of the 200-page account which helps inflate "The Lucifer Effect" to a bloated 550 pages.That said, I remain a fan of Doctor Zimbardo.
Providing advice for resisting situational pressure was invaluable, the sections theorizing on the make-up of heroes was a little idealistic and theoretical compared to the robustly conceptualized other sections.In total Lucifer Effect is a scary but valuable read, at around 500 pages with heavy material it is not for the faint of heart, but I am really glad Dr Zimbardo shared his story and knowledge his insights and knowledge cannot be overvalued.
This book was borne out of Philip Zimbardo's work with a U.S. army soldier, who was one of the prison guards at Abu Ghraib in Iraq.
Zimbardo is also the one who ran the infamous Stanford Prison Experiment in the 1970s.
E.g., it was the duress and egregious circumstances suffered by the participants in the Stanford Prison Experiment and at Abu Ghraib that led them to commit such heinous acts.
As one who provides therapy to Iraq veterans myself, there is much more to the roots of human evil than, "My circumstances made me do it." Want a better resource?
A classic on the subject, Zimbardo tackles in this book the longest description and explanation of his Stanford Prison Experiment, along with two other main themes: the Abu Ghraib abuses and, in the last chapter, heroism and altruism.
I love the subject, I love the writing, I find the entire theme endlessly fascinating and also - don't tell anyone - I really like Zimbardo.
I think he is a great psychologist who happened to conduct the right experiment at the right time, and his work on heroism and altruism could truly change the way we raise our children and the way our societies respond to human rights violations and other morally unjustifiable things.
The other half of the book breaks down the psychology of social dynamics in power, conformity, obedience, deindividuation, dehumanization, and the evil of inaction finishing with a very intense chapter on Abu Ghraib’s abuses of power, interrogations and tortures which is wrapped up by putting our government’s perverse, and conspiratorial system on trial as an influence for these war crimes and crimes against humanity and what can be done to prevent future abuses.At last the book ends with a chapter on resisting situational influences and celebrating heroism which brings to our attention that, although heroes seem to be few and far between just as the “bad apples” seem to be, the banality of evil shares much with the banality of heroism.
This is a horribly difficult book to read, not because Zimbardo’s writing is bad or the subject is uninteresting, but because it exposes how easily people can be manipulated into a role — and I don’t just mean the guards, but also the prisoners.
This was run, not by Stanley Milgram, as people often think, but by Philip Zimbardo, and even he became caught up in the act of it.
And not even them, but people outside it who should have seen through the illusion, like the chaplain.Both this experiment and Stanley Milgram’s experiments are kind of horrifying, because we don’t want to think it’s that easy.
The first 200 or so pages are about The Stanford Prison Experiment (1971 study involving the psychological effects of prisoners and prison guards).
Anyway, once I reached page 113 I was really wishing for a new topic, but no, it kept going and going--repeating the same subject matter and psychological findings of the Stanford study.
Once I saw the light and new subject was finally presented (maybe around page 236) I was pretty burnt out and at that point, I didn't care anymore.
I read the rest of the 300 or so pages, however I can't recall anything that I read and I don't care.
Налага се да прекратят експеримента, но той остава един от еталоните в психологията на човешкото поведение в стресови условия.По-късно Дейвид Зимбардо (въпросния психолог) става един от най-известните академични психолози в света, със стотици публикации и е експерт-свидетел в делото срещу американските войници, които бяха се гаврили със затворници в Ирак преди няколко години.Книгата е детайлно описание на експеримента, с коментари на случващото се и изводи за това какво то ни казва за човешката психика.
I had to read this for a psychology class in college.
Zimbardo, a prominent social psychologist, strongly advocates replacing this thinking with a situational explanation -- the idea that the situation is a set-up for bringing out evil qualities in any normal person, or that we should blame the "bad barrel" for creating the "bad apples" rather than the other way around.Zimbardo makes his case convincingly with a level of detail that feels overwhelming at times but is necessary in order to help the reader truly appreciate his position (his writing style also balances a scholarly and academic tone with highly personal insights, which serve to make the book more engaging).
However if I were ranking Zimbardo as an author alone, I would give it 2 stars.Despite Zimbardo's abysmal efforts as a writer, this is a fascinating book, which examines many known and unknown studies on "evil." To read this, I recommend skimming the whole section where Z describes the Stanford Prison Experiment.
Z draws on experiences with Guantanamo, Abu Ghraib, Third Reich, and all of them are fascinating and horrifying examples of what seemingly good people will do to each other when an authority tells them to.
I was, unfortunately, very disappointed with it, as it turned out to be not quite what i expected.
I thought the book was about "Understanding How Good People Turn Evil", when it was just simply "Examples of How Good People Turn Evil".
Dr. Zimbardo was excessively thorough regarding the Stanford Prison Experiment and the Abu Ghraib incident, only to the point that proves that ordinary "good" people can "turn bad" when faced with certain situations, but not why or how it can be avoided, as the title of the book claims!
I just thought a successful psychologist as himself would actually deliver what he promised.
„Ефектът Луцифер“ (изд. „Изток-Запад“, 2017; превод: Людмила Андреева) от поведенческия психолог Филип Зимбардо е безкомпромисна аутопсия на жестокостта в най-човешката ѝ форма и „твърде мрачно пътуване в сърцето и съзнанието на тъмнината”....6 дни и прекратяване предсрочно на драматичния „театър“, който доброволците на Станфордския експеримент стартират. 6 дни, в които цветята на злото избуяват до задушаване. Зимбардо проследява час по час своята machina malum.Прочетете повече: http://knijno.blogspot.bg/2017/09/o.html
um, so i decided to stop reading this book because it's not suprising to me (in the LEAST!) that a bunch of college educated, middle-class white kids would act all brutish and prison-guardesque if they didn't have to be responsibile for any of their actions, and stuff. hello, blackwater? hello, um, the u.s. army? hello, fox news network? screw situational ethics when white boys have the whole world as their prison den! also, i stopped reading this book because zimbardo (google his picture! eerie!) almost ran my sister over in his SUV back in her stanford days.
unnecessary elboration in regards to the abu graham prison incidents and the stanford prison experiment.
The book doesn't not prove a theory or give an understanding of the process of becoming evil.
that being said chapter 15, and 16 went breifly over the psychological/ behavioural factors that makes people turn bad and then also breifly how should we deal with evil people when we are faced with situation where they try to dehumanize us etc.
but then in the chapter after that he goes and gives examples of people who stood in the face of evil and they were some how punished by the society latter on!
I read this book years and years ago, and at the time I thought it was amazing. The Stanford Prison experiment was especially striking; totally changed how I thought about human behaviour. But if anyone thinks the same then I'd encourage you to read the accounts that cast doubt on it.The medium blog: The Lifespan of a LieAnd this Twitter thread: Jay Van Bavel
Zimbardo recounts having been so moved at the end of the experiment that he wanted to devote the rest of his life to curbing situational factors that cause us to do evil to our fellow human beings, and this book is his giant argument for the cause.Yet The Lucifer Effect is highly uneven.
Worse, it would suggest something about the more homogenous reactions of more affluent subjects, but a potentially radically different results-set for people of other walks of life.While the study provided several examples of common reactions (given the guards demanding prisoners sing their numbers, virtually all prisoners sang them) and thereby verified that Situationalism has some validity, it didn’t bear out that Individualism was irrelevant.
This book (page 5) "is my attempt to understand the process of transformation at work when good or ordinary people do bad or evil things.
We will deal with the fundamental question: `What makes people go wrong?'" In this book, Zimbardo goes from the prison experiment to the evil perpetrated at Abu Ghraib Prison.
Whatever one's perspective on such issues, though, Zimbardo's book forces the reader to address fundamental issues of human good and evil, and what the wellsprings of each might be.
The Lucifer Effect in many ways reads like an introductory social psychology book as Zimbardo trudges through experiments that have become staples for undergraduate psychology courses: Stanley Milgram's obedience experiment, Asch's conformity experiment, and, of course, the Stanford Prison Experiment.
Zimbardo makes a strong case for how bad systems, or "bad barrels" produce "bad apples", that atrocities are committed by regular people, often, because of situational factors.
Each of us is part of bad systems, and once inside of them, any of use are capable of great evils, or what Zimbardo refers to as the "banality of evil." Abu Ghraib.
This lead to the writing and publication of The Lucifer Effect: Understanding How Good People Turn Evil.
The fact that Abu Ghraib or Guantanamo Bay are classified as Detention Centres so they do not have to abide by the Geneva Conventions is horrifying and makes me suspect of how my country treats detainees.The Lucifer Effect is a very interesting book, I feel like I have gotten a lot out of it, although it will need to be re-read in the future.
I recommend The Lucifer Effect to everyone, it is horrifying to read how people treat others, but it is important to understand the situations and work towards building a better solution.This review orginally appeared on my blog; http://www.knowledgelost.org/book-rev...
If you've ever wondered how people get to "that" point when they can do something you consider heinous or evil, this is an interesting read. This book discusses the Stanford Prison Experiment and how the impact of a situation can have a greater impact on human behavior than we as an American society recognize. Although everyone has individual choice, we habitually underestimate the impact of the situation on the individual in both positive and negative cases. It is a fascinating and intriguing topic and will definitely make you question our treatment of guards and prisoners.
Situations matter, in 500 pages.
Other than that, ordinary humans being capable of great good or great bad, depending on the situation, isn’t a new revelation.
It isn’t a few bad apples, it is the barrel.
Not sure I buy in to his last chapter about how to resist a bad barrel.
Then again, humans have managed to create good barrels, how else would the SPE have found good kids or Abu Ghraib have had decorated men and women?
Figuring out how to get situations that keep people away from becoming monsters is a worthy endeavor.
This was a new view on good and evil and it was wonderfully done. This was definitely a long book to read. Take your time while reading this because each chapter gets deeper and the information builds upon what goes on in the world, in good people, and in the people that turned evil.
After reading this book I am feeling quite devastated. Somewhere deep inside I even wish I haven't read it at all. The book uncovers the ugly nature of human beings, the things they are capable of doing when granted authority, anonymity or when put in a group of similarly mischievous people. It contains a number of different findings on how and why "normal" and "decent" people find themselves involved in despicable acts of evil. One might get really depressed by this book, beware...
"Am I capable of evil?" is the question that I want you to consider over and over again as we journey together..." ~ ZimbardoThis book explains how "normal" people can commit atrocities.
This book would be an excellent resource or conversation starter to addressing the depravity of man or the importance of understanding issues of morality.We do not rise to the occasion...

