https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/906072.Blue_Bay_Mystery
In an interesting (I’m using the adjective loosely here) change of events, this time they know something is up because he’s happy – he’s joking with Benny, and it’s an event to be remarked on and remembered and followed closely.
Then you can divvy it up amongst yourselves based on the Alden Family Color Coding Scheme.”The most exciting part of the trip comes when they get to help Lars pack the lifeboat for the trip to the island.“OMG we LOVE TO PACK THINGS!” Jessie shouts with a maniacal gleam in her eyes.“Dry milk!
Really liked this one, it felt more like the first book in the series did.The Alden's are stranded on a tropical island.
As always Grandfather knows how his grand-kids love to fend for themselves so this time around he orchestrates a tropical getaway for them.
This book is special though because unlike the previous books this time Grandfather Alden comes along for the adventure.
After five books of the Grandfather being almost like a part time character it is exciting to have him stick it out for the whole story.
One more surprise, on this island the Alden's discover that they are not alone.
4.5/5I have to keep reminding myself these were written and published in the 1960's so there's old fashioned views of women and quite a few errors that weren't caught by the publishers but i don't know, i still love this series. i grew up on both the boxcar children and the harry potter series.
Mrs. Kampf's Reading Small Group: We loved that it was a mystery, but not too serious of a mystery, it was a lot of fun.
It gave lots of clues throughout that allowed the reader to make predictions about what was going to happen.
The clues were found in very unusual places.
There is a lot of action, such as little Benny falling into a whole!
It was definitely a five star mystery because it had a sweet and happy ending.
We really loved the setting of this book.
After all, who doesn't love a tropical island.
the boys loved it. so did i,
My love of reading started when i was young, and it gives me immense pleasure to provide books to Spread the Word Nevada, an organization that passes them on to children in the community.
Sometimes I'll find a book I remember reading when I was young and will read it again before passing it on.I don't rate these books using my normal scale, instead I give most of them three stars.
This isn't a Criticism of the book, simply my way of rating them as good for children.
The alden family go on an adventure that grandfather's friend has been to that they think is now deserted.
At first peter is like a ghost for the alden family.
And then they find out that he's a boy that was deserted on this island to and was occupied by a man and might have lost his family on the boat wreck.
And they found out that peter has the last name as benny's teacher but there not relatives.My thoughts on this book is I really liked it it was good from the start.
For those just tuning in, I am reading this classic children's series free on Kindle Unlimited.
Because this is the 1950s and it is a series for children, no one gets eaten by sharks and Lars is a good role model for the children.
The book like all books in the series emphasizes the value of hard work and independence.A little mystery and adventure and 50s family fun, though today's kids would likely still enjoy it.
I'm liking the series enough to keep reading, though I wish I'd have read them as a kid to get the full experience.
I really like the wholesomeness of this book series and the kindness, respect and politeness the characters demonstrate towards one another.
This particular book is about another one of the adventures the family goes on to what they believe to be a deserted island.
They bring some provisions but plan on using what they can find (i.e. stones for plates, etc.) during their explorations.
A few mysterious events happen which lead the family to believe they may not be alone on the island.
Benny discovers they are, in fact, not alone and the family works together to provide assistance to an individual in need.
Blue Bay MysteryGertrude Chandler WarnerThroughout this book Henry, Violet, Jessie, and little Benny go to a island.
The island has no population on it and it is a relaxing vacation.
So they thought....
Until they find out that there is more than just them on the island.
This book is exciting when, Benny finds out that there is a little boy on the island and he is standing right in front of Benny.
It is happy when Henry, Violet, Jessie, and Benny find the little boy's parents, back on the main land.
Lars, the family friend, was stranded on that island a few years ago and had a great time.
They all learn how to survive on an island have a great time exploring.
They learn from Peter he has been stuck on the island since a shipwreck 6 months ago.
His parents were also on the ship and he doesn't know whether they survived.
When the ship comes back to take them home Mr. Alden contacts the mainland and they found out the Peter's parents are alive and they will meet them when the ship docks.
Peter reunites with his parents and the Alden family head back home.
The 6th installment in the Boxcar Children series. This time Grandfather takes them on an island adventure. There appears to be a mystery, could there be someone on the island?The children continue to look for clues for the few weeks they are there until young Benny solves the mystery. These books are so neat always an adventure and never disappointed.
This is a children's book and the narration is as simple as it gets. I enjoyed the story without overthinking, just simply enjoyed with the Alden family and their vacation on an island. The story was pretty straightforward though. There also wasn't much distinction between the characters.
Wonderful Mystery BookMy 10 year old son enjoyed this mystery book! The characters were all really engaging. The plot was creative. Overall the book was great.
Grandpa takes them to an isolated island (where is this grandpa when I need him?!) and the kids find something mysterious going on... they are not alone!
It has a lot of emotionI like that it has a lot emotions and people speaking and it is one of my favorite books 📚
This is a nice story about an island adventure. This one has some of the charm of the first book.
Another Boxcar book. I wish I liked these ones as much as I liked the first...but it's just not meant to be, I don't think.
Listed to the audiobook with the kids while painting our lemonade stand.
Then when they went to a spring one day and they saw a rock shaped like a nose and Lars never saw it before.
Lars was in a shipwreck on this island 3 years ago.
Then they found a sea pool with a MANMADE rock pattern.
That ship hit a reef and went down 6 months ago.
Peter was lost at sea in the shipwreck of the Explorer 2.
He was there for 6 months and then the family and Lars came.
I would recommend this book to anyone who likes kids and mysteries.
What is it with these children and their obsession with dishes?
How grand it must be to have a rich grandfather to take you on an extended vacation with a private guide to an uninhabited island in the South Seas!
I like that this vacation brought all new, exciting adventures, and that Grandfather went along, too.
I was happy to see the children continue their schoolwork while on vacation, but it seemed awfully quaint that Grandfather was able to procure each of the kid's lessons ahead of time from their respective teachers, and somehow, those lessons came collated in personalized bound books!
This time it is a little different though as the children can't find the person but know he is there.
While having fun living on a deserted island the group find clues that there is someone else on the island and eventually meet a castaway boy.
This is a fun book in the series.
Grandfather's inclusion stunts the children's style a bit but they do get some time to go off on their own.
Children will enjoy the excitement of the castaway boy and his experiences, but I think the story would have been better served if he had been introduced earlier as we don't get enough time with him.
I always liked the Boxcar Children since there never seemed to be much of a danger even when they are facing a mystery as is often the case.
Instead the book is a good display of a strong family that sticks and works together for the better of the whole.
The book is easy to read, doesn't contain a lot of indecipherable words and is a good starting block for those who are moving from the realm of children books to chapter books.
Furthermore the characters are easy to get to know, the story contains enough interest to keep young minds and enough room to relate.
It was an enjoyable read.
I read so many Boxcar Children books when I was younger and loved them so much.
I think this book has a fun plot and it is easy to read.
Being in a series, students can get to know the characters by reading more books.
It could be read aloud to students but I think it would be better suited for independent reading.
Students can read the book at their own pace and continue on to other books in the series to get more practice with chapter books and reading on their own.
I think children would really enjoy this book.
This is a great book for kids who love stories of adventure and independence.
Because the children are on the deserted island (albeit with their grandfather and a friend), it is more similar to the original Boxcar Children in which they must forage for food and create a home for themselves.
A similarly enjoyable story is Baby Island by Carol Ryrie Brink.
I read this aloud to my 6 year old son and 4 1/2 year old daughter.
The 6 year old loved it, the 4 1/2 year old was mildly bored.
The chapters are a good length, too- not too short, not too long.
First off, I read these Boxcar Children books when I was a lot younger.
There were some that I would read over and over and others that I read once and chucked to the back of my bookcase.
Overall, though, I loved them all.
Only better, since there are no "natives" around, well, not so far that we know.
I love the children's imagination and ingenuity; how they always know how to make something of nothing.
This book is still one of my favorites, and when I have kids, I'll definitely read this one to them!
Ms. Warner does it again! Such a charming story: the children are off on another adventure, this time to an island all their own to explore on with their grandfather, Benny's friend Mike (from book 5), and their new sailor friend Lars. But they are not alone, someone else is on the island! Who could it be, how did they get there?Good clean fiction is so hard to come by, and I loved the many little lessons that author shared. These are good for any age - just a nice enjoyable "light" mystery book. :)
Mr. Alden and the kids go on an exotic adventure to an "uninhabited" island, marooned on purpose for a few weeks. With a knowledgeable guide, they are in good hands, but are perplexed by a mystery...is there someone else on the island? Our girls really enjoyed the first story in this series, so we thought we'd check out a few more. This is a fun tale and is a good book for intermediate readers. The narrative is fairly easy and there's a lot of exciting activity. We will definitely check out more books in this series.
I have always loved the Boxcar Children books ever since I was a kid. After finding out that throughout my school year I need to read a mystery novel, I was quick to choose Gertrude Chandler Warner as my author. With nineteen books, her series was so amazing that subsequent authors made more following her death. I picked up the Blue Bay Mystery and couldn't set it down. I became attached to all the characters and problem solved my way through the whole mystery. I rate this book a 5/5 for sure.
