https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/826501.Skylark_Three
Where I was anticipating a pulp adventure, I was actually getting a taste of hard science fiction.In this novel, DuQuesne goes off into space to find a counter to the superior defenses the protagonists had discovered and developed in the first story.
262)Unlike the distinguished science-fiction editor, the late Mr. Campbell, I was fascinated by the idea of building machines using the existing forces of nature (sort of a ‘30s era nanotechnology) and my only complaint was the apparent demise of a supporting character who, I believe, appears in a later story—in spite of being annihilated.
The heroes are upstanding corn-fed Americans, the enemies are dastardly conquest-fueled aliens, the day will be won with the intelligent application of SCIENCE!, and the dialogue is so corny that movie theaters can coat it in nasty ersatz butter sauce and sell it by the fattening tub.Everything you need to know about Smith's gender politics is shown in an early scene: the menfolk grapple with the fundamental forces of the universe and bend SCIENCE!
to their will, while their wives knit and eat chocolates.But Smith's sheer ernestness is enthralling.
All the qualms I had with The Skylark of Space are present in its sequel to an even greater extent. The plot is predictable and boring, the dialogue is laughable, the characters are all one-dimensional, and the author devotes way too much time developing technologies and scientific theories to keep any semblance of an interesting story. Don't waste your time with this one.
Original: I got about halfway through this one and kind of gave up on this series.
It's definitely not as good as the Lensmen series, which is little surprise since this was written first.
Nobody ever spoke like these characters.
They sound like rejects from a campy 1930's film.
I'd rather have less detail on the science fiction then this wildly inaccurate stuff.New: I just listened to this on audio book (got for free from library).
The narrator gets the style just right to capture the characters, and listening to it is a lot easier than plowing through the endless pages of scientific nonsense with my eyes.
Definitely a classic, and so very enjoyable, Skylark Three gives us another dose of unbelievable and fantastic science that is almost miraculous in it's application.
The characters are still larger than life, too perfect, and pompous sounding...
More so than in the first book the language and pseudo-science gives a dated feel to Skylark Three and seems to have been written for a younger audience.
At the same time however, it is more consistent in style and narration yet something about it makes you feel the youthful enthusiasm E.E. Smith appears to have had in writing it.
Storyline: 2/5Characters: 1/5Writing Style: 2/5World: 2/5After finishing The Skylark of Space I remarked, only partially in jest, that Smith compressed nearly all of science fiction ideas - past and future - into a single, short text.
That adventure story, however, was more coherent than in the first Skylark book.
This is a story for good ole' boys and a call back to the golden age.
It is not so much that I object to such stories or characters like this.
Hence why this is a book for the good ole' boys who want to gallivant around the universe playing hero without any concern for untoward repercussions.
Skylark Three is the second in the Skylark series, named after the third Skylark spaceship. (In  The Skylark of Space , Seaton and Crane build the Skylark and go on space adventures; on the planet of Osnome they rebuild the ship into Skylark Two.) Responding to requests for aid from the Osnomians, Seaton, Crane, their wives and Crane's Japanese man-servant Shiro head out into space where they run into a scout cruiser of the supermen of Fenachrone. These guys want to conquer the galaxy and kill e
, Seaton and Crane build the Skylark and go on space adventures; on the planet of Osnome they rebuild the ship into Skylark Two.) Responding to requests for aid from the Osnomians, Seaton, Crane, their wives and Crane's Japanese man-servant Shiro head out into space where they run into a scout cruiser of the supermen of Fenachrone.
They team up!There’s some interesting stuff here about frequencies and orders of forces, Seaton having to leave a gap in his shields at one frequency to see out.
There’s some even more interesting stuff about how the Norlaminians are so advanced as to be too pacifist to fight Fenachrone (though they build the weapons to do so).
From the first book it doesn’t seem as if Smith originally intended this to be a series, but I guess that the first book (or at least its serialisation in a magazine of the time) was successful enough to prompt a follow-up.The formula is similar, but this time the challenges are even bigger and the responses of the heroes, particularly Richard Seaton are even more superhuman.
In this book, DuQuesne is still around, but with all Seaton’s power-ups he is much less of a threat, and is effectively sidelined by the end of the book.
The book polarises into a universe of “good” (i.e willing to embrace Seaton as “overlord”) and “bad” (i.e determined to win at the expense of all others) races.
I would give it 3 stars compared to modern science fiction, but this was written in 1930.
For those with an interest in the history of science fiction this one is clearly at least a 4 star book.
You can clearly see where the ideas for things like Flash Gordon (four years later) came from.
Smoking is what men do to relax.Bottom line: If you want to read a part of science fiction history, read this and you may really like this.
However, if you just want a good science fiction story, you may be a bit disappointed.
I read it once as a child, once as a teen and again a few years ago.
Or was it simply that's how everyone (in my limited world) thought at the time and therefore it didn't catch me?But is it a rip-roaring space opera?
"Doc" Smith write about became working elements in the technologies I patented and codin methods I developed (example: "Never forget that it is a waste of time to do the same thing twice, and that if you know precisely what is to be done, you need not do it personally at all.
I listened to this from Audiovox as read by Richard Kilmer. A fun story, but it drags at times with expounding on imaginary science.Once again, the treatment of women was embarrassing, but I know that was a 1920's prevailing opinion. If I go on with the series, it will be because the next book is called Skylark Duquesne. He supposedly dies in this book, but he's too great a villain to let go.
The second of Doc Smith's Skylark novels, Richard Seaton and Martin Crane, together with their wives, are back in space on their ship Skylark Three. They end up going to the planet Osnome which is being threatened with a war by another planet, but then an even worse threat appears, the reptilian Fenachrone, which forces the erstwhile enemy planets to join forces to defeat them. A great pulp space opera read from the early 1930's.
Continuano le avvincenti avventure intergalattiche iniziate nei primi due libri; è un ciclo godibile, anche se mostra l'ingenuità degli anni in cui fu scritto, Mi ha lasciato solo un po' deluso il finale: si vede cosa farà l'antagonista, ma nessuno sguardo di come affronteranno il futuro i protagonisti.
I cannot improve on what Johnny said. I was also a big fan of John Campbell and was upset when he debunked Doc.
Reluctantly gave up on this book at the 70% mark. The story started out interestingly enough, but got bogged down in page after page of boring technology development and pseudoscience jibber jabber.
Wasn't as good as the first one in the series. It did keep my interest but was a bit slow at times.
The Osnomians are under attack from a warlike race of the Third Planet in the Green System and Seaton’s help is needed if the Osnomian race is to survive.However, the Osnomians and their enemies are forced to unite when the Skylark encounters a greater threat, the evil Fenachrone, humanoid reptilians who have a master plan to conquer the entire universe.Seaton, employing his new ‘zone of force’ to slice up the Fenachrone vessel like an interstellar salami, then captures its Captain and using his brain-recording device, learns that the Fenachrone sent a message to their home planet before it was destroyed.Seaton has only a few months to track down the older races of the Green system and learn the secrets of their technology in order to defend the galaxy against the evil Fenachrone.Duquesne and his new henchman ‘Babyface’ Rawlins are for the most part absent from this book.
This book was much better than the first Skylark book, so much so that I'm going to downgrade my rating of the first one to make enough space between the two of them. It seems like in this book, though still filled with all the insanely bad dialogue and incredibly huge coincidences of the first, Doc Smith was more into pure sci-fi imaginings, the best part of the genre, random, unique alien races, speculative science taken to extremes, etc. You can tell he had a kid's enthusiasm for his work, and it rubs off on the reader as well.
Read this some 35 years ago. Oh, and all you "college educated kids" have to tone down your patronizing, holier-than-thou, this-is-sexist/racist/dated reviews. It was written before your daddy and mommy (who paid for your college education) was born by a guy that put himself through grad school. Yes, it's dated. Move your narrow brains out of the present and try... TRY... to see it from an historical perspective. I've only given this 3 stars because I read it so long ago I can't remember much about it.
I read all of the E.E. "Doc" Smith SciFi that I could find, growing up. Now, reading Skylark Three again for the first time in perhaps 35 years, I find that it's still a whacking good story. Written at a time when particle physics was barely off the ground, I find that the science is deeply dated. The dialog is a bit repetitive and sensational. But it brings me back 35 years. That's not entirely a bad thing. And it *is* a good story, and extraordinarily progressive and imaginative for it's time.
Skylark Three actually reads much better that Book 1. Some much better narrative on the exploration of the Universe and some much more interesting dialog during first contact(s) between Seaton and several alien cultures. You can see shades of the epic scope of the universe and its inhabitants throughout very similar to the Lensman novels that Doc wrote. This also escalated the drama that will come with DuQuesne's next move to best Seaton which was foreshadowed by providing Seaton and the group of Universal Peace a new enemy.
The original space opera series. Certainly not good writing, but vigorous with entertaining 1930's attitudes, pseudo-science, and pseudo-slang."Worrying? That bird is simply pulling my cork! I'm so scared he'll kidnap Dottie that I'm running around in circles and biting myself in the small of the back."
The second book was worse than the first. Just as dated but now the supposedly heroic protagonists quite calmly commit genocide and make themselves effective rulers of the entire galaxy by force. Even for the period this was published, it is hard to see how this could have been considered in any way admirable.
This is very early Sciemce Fiction, before the term was even coined. Editorial requirements at the time were for a lot of pseudo-science, even at the expense of the story. I think that explains why this book is virtually unreadable for today's audience. Smith was capable of much better, as he proved with the Lensman series.
I read this one a LONG time ago. The Skylark series is a classic which I periodically go back and reread every decade or so. The science is outdated and the level of technology is a bit too far-fetched but it's still a classic space opera.
Going from memory here, but the stars of this book (and I might argue, the entire series) are easily the Fenachrone villains. I would write more, but I honestly don't remember a whole lot of the plot of this one. I do remember this book the most fondly, probably due to the menace of the baddies.
I just LOVE these vintage Sci-Fi epics!
An old-fashioned but enjoyable sci-fi read full of brave heroes, plucky damsels and evil villains.
See "Skylark of Space." This is as far as I got with Doc Smith, mostly because these books were a little hard to find. Maybe they've been re-issued now.
This one is more sciency and less alien-y and battle-y than the first book in the series, but still quite enjoyable.
