https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1414.The_Riverside_Shakespeare
I've had this almost 2000 page book since I was an English major in college some thirty years ago. It has everything Shakespeare wrote, excellent footnotes explaining the meaning of the words and allusions that are obscure now, and wonderfully insightful essays at the beginning of each play. If I were ever stuck alone on a desert island and had to pick five books to go with me, this would be one of them.
Need a comprehensive volume of all of Shakespeare's works?
This book is for you.How about a security system?
I guarantee any burglar you bash over the head with this book is going to have at least a concussion, if not brain damage.
What about a doorstop?
do you live in a drafty house with doors slamming all the time?
You need one of these then, any door parked behind this tome is going nowhere.Got kids?
Are they too big for a high chair but still a little too short for a regular chair?
Park one of these babies under their butt with a pillow on top.
Usé esta maravilla de libro (son las obras completas+historia+bio y demás joyitas sobre la época y el autor/es) cuando estudiaba un curso extensivo sobre este bardo (jaja traté de hacer un chiste ahí).Es lo mejor que me pasó en mi vida estudiantil/profesional y ahora duerme en mi mesa de luz, en un lugar privilegiado, lejos de los libros normales.
My Riverside Shakespeare is one of my most prized possessions.
I don't really read from it anymore - it's much easier for me to buy a $3 used edition with just one play in it; Riverside is very large.
But when I re-read Shakespeare I usually revisit the Riverside intros, which are excellent.* I should note, it's marked up with the dumbest shit.
There is a very similar subplot to All's Well whose moral runs along the lines of "If you have a wife or fiancee who you are avoiding while pursuing a virtuous maiden, don't make plans to deflower the maiden at midnight in the garden because the woman you meet will probably be your wife." Tempest: Just revisited for the first time since a production in college (cast as Miranda turned it down to play a spirit in an ugly mustard leotard...) It is surprising to me what language stuck and what didn't.
I list it as ‘new’ this year (as I did earlier with the NIV Study Bible—in its case also a different translation, something not applicable to Shakespeare) because all the scholarly apparatus is new to me: introductory essays, notes on source texts and variants, general chronology of other events during Shakespeare’s lifetime, critical surveys of performance history, etc., are new.
I tend more towards the view that Shakespeare could, on occasion, produce inferior work, that he was, in his own time and practice, at least as much a businessman (or theatre impresario) as he was an artist.
I read it side by side with the Yale edition published in 1925 and edited by John M.
Berdan and Tucker Brooke because I like how the Yale edition plays are published in individual 4" x 6" blue cloth-covered volumes that you can hold easily in your hands.
What I like about him is how I'll be reading him and there's the action, and the story all moving along, and then Blammo, his characters do something that is so completely true and right to the heart of how people think and act, and those moments are magical.
Although I've read MOST of this anthology, I cannot honestly say that I've the whole thing.But, almost all.Henry VI, Parts I, II, & III, quite frankly were too daunting. They became laborious which was exactly the OPPOSITE experience of the rest of the plays, sonnets, and scholarship in this wonderful compilation.
The copy I have used to be my mum's. It's full of annotations that she wrote down while reading Shakespeare at University.Aside from the small print, it is a good edition to use while reading the Bard.
An excellent compilation of criticism, history, and literature - a complete yet compact anthology with ample research aids and helpful bibliographies.
Shakespeare ROCKS!! Now to figure out if he really is that bumbling illiterate of Avon, or Christopher Marlow, THAT is the question!
Every word in the Shakespeare canon has been read. Fuck yeah!
I think I studied only about 4 history plays, all the tragedies, all the comedies, The Tempest, The Winter's Tale, Romeo and Juliet, Julius Caesar, Antony and Cleopatry and a couple of the "problem plays".
I love Hamlet the most from among the tragedies because he was such a sexy tragic bastard and Shakespeare was a boss with his use of the Garden of Eden metaphor in that play.
Othello was probably the precursor for many a jealous obsessive asshole Harlequin Presents hero.
And I will always have a special love for The Tempest because it's so epic !
I love Shakespeare.
I loved this version of his work as well.
I have always admired his ability to write his sonnets in iambic pentameter.
I know that, these days, many writers of poetry like to write "train of thought" style, but I can't help but feel that there is a true art and mastery in giving oneself guidelines to work within and still ending up with something spectacular.
Then there is also the beauty of the words on the page.
I also love the hidden digs, puns, plays on words, etc., one can find within his plays.
Read and studied many of the plays in Ralph Williams brilliant course at the University of Michigan.
Did this course with Mr. Blistein at Brown in the mid 1970's. We covered it all, although I think I slept through a few of the histories...
The book is heavily glossed on the page where the text in question appears, which is great as you can simply look down to find the information.
This book is my favourite by far of Shakespearean books in regard to completeness and reading aids.
The BBC set out to do all the plays, which is great because you can watch some of the lesser performed works.
I am not sure the canonical views of the BBC and this book match 100%, so a few of the plays that were previously not considered Shakespearean may not be available.
A good edition of Shakespeare, with a general introduction, textual notes, and illustrations (including coloured plates).Here's my review of Hamlet:The hero wears black, is a university student, writes poetry, studies philosophy at university.
When some of his friends tell him they've seen a ghost, he sets out to investigate, with surprising results.The play has a ghost, madness, melancholy poetry, meditations on suicide, self-reflexivity, radical doubt, political espionage and intrigue, rebellion, graveyard humor, a moment of Zen, a duel.Shakespeare had a double task here: creating the fascinating mind of the prince, and then constructing a situation equal to testing his hero's estimable capacities.
Among all of Shakespeare's characters, Hamlet is the one who would have been most capable of writing Shakesepeare's plays.
The plays I have read thus far:Histories:Richard II 3 1/2 stars My first Shakespeare play.
I liked it, but it was hard to read.
1 Henry IV  5 Stars One of my favorite Shakespeare plays.
Right mix of poetry and prose, and I love the men in it!
King Lear  3 1/2 stars It was interesting, intriguing, etc.
Romeo and Juliet  4 stars.
I felt like I had wasted my time after reading it, though.
Measure for Measure  3 stars.
I felt very dark after reading this play.
The Tempest  5 stars.
Poems:Venus and Adonis  4 stars for writing, 1 star for my preference.
Is it sad that this is what made my week?The Riverside's certainly the clearest-printed I've run across, of the dozen or so well-known versions out there - and though I wish there were a few more annotations per page as far as the more obscure Elizabethan language goes, I still think this one "feels" best, with just the right amount of spacing between lines, so that it's discernible enough to be read without a magnifying glass but just bunched together enough (on the very nice extra-wide pages) so that one can burrow down into the solilioquys without too much of that annoying page-turning business.And of course, this will remain on my "currently-reading" list for some time to come, as I don't think I've gone a week during the last year, without at least one random act.
I realize that it's lazy of me to add this instead of having to think about how the individual plays (I'm in Shakespeare for the plays, not the sonnets) stack up against each other, but I have to add this if for no other reason than that it is one of the very few books in my personal library that has survived every single one of my residential relocations since college, which I think is about 15-20 moves and a total of more than 20,000 miles.
Also, it's a book, right?
It's Shakespeare, all of Shakespeare.
I cannot fathom how someone could give it less than 5 stars, unless you're taking issue with some minor academic decision like which version from which folio is used.
For 99.9999999% of the world's English speaking population, this is the only Shakespeare you will ever need to buy, and you probably won't read it all anyways.
I studied literature and had to read, probably most of it, 60% or more.
And while some plays are better than others, Shakespeare is a mammoth of literature, the writer everyone else aspires to be.
5 f'n stars.
Not trying to show off here, but I have literally read everything that Shakespeare wrote because a) I'm an English teacher, b) I'm a theatre dork, and c)I was like a total stalker for the stuff in college and read it for fun because I'm just that lame.
Of course I like some of it better than others, but there's a reason the man is so famous.
Favorite comedies: Midsummer Night's Dream, Taming of the Shrew, The Tempest, Twelfth Night, Merchant of Venice (in that order).
Favorite tragedies: Hamlet, Macbeth, Othello.
Favorite histories: Richard III, Henry IV.
Favorite sonnets: too hard to choose.
Since junior year of college this has been my indispensable tool for reading and understanding Shakespeare.
All the plays, all the poetry, plus helpful archaism-deciphering footnotes.If there is one part of this volume I haven't valued, it's the articles preceding each play.
There may be other complete works of Shakespeare available, but this one has assured I always have a scholarly edition at hand to read and study.
Don't rely on cut and past online editions to read these plays.
Invest in volumes like this to ensure you get the most out of reading Shakespeare.
Read thus far:The Taming of the ShrewAs You Like ItTwelfth NightMeasure for MeasureRomeo and JulietJulius CeasarHamletOthelloMacbethThe TempestKing LearVarious sonnetsTo read:The Comedy of ErrorsThe Two Gentlemen of VeronaLove's Labor's LostA Midsummer Night's DreamMuch Ado About Nothing (seen)Troilus and CressidaAll's Well That Ends WellHenry VI: 1, 2, 3Richard III (seen)King JohnRichard IIHenry IV: 1, 2Henry VHenry VIIITitus AndronicusAntony and Cleopatra (seen)CoriolanusTimon of AthensPericlesCymbelineThe Winter's TaleTwo Noble KinsmenVenus and AdonisRape of Lucrecethe other Sonnets
The four-star rating is cumulative. I read this for a class at Bob Jones with Dr. Caren Silvester. We read Twelfth Night, All's Well That Ends Well, Measure for Measure, Othello, King Lear, Macbeth, Antony and Cleopatra, The Winter's Tale, The Tempest, and Troilus and Cressida.The plays I enjoyed the most were The Winter's Tale, All's Well that Ends Well, The Tempest, King Lear, and Twelfth Night. Measure for Measure and Othello were pretty good.I read The Tempest and King Lear for prelims (April 4-6, 2015).
It's all here in one big beautiful book.
It's also nice to have the complete works in one place--easy to look things up if you are a stickler for Shakespeare "trivia" or want to know if something is being done accurately.
I got this for an undergrad class and am so happy to have it (although I know mine is an earlier edition as this was published in 1997 and the class would have been earlier than that).
Finally got rid of all my little individual Shakespeare books over the years.
One downside, this is not portable--big and clunky!
A Shakespeare play is only as good as its edition. Fortunately, the Riverside Shakespeare maximizes the positive qualities of both the second (good) quarto and the first folio, borrowing the best elements from both versions of the play to create a new authoritative edition. The introductions to the plays, as well as the footnotes and endnotes, are both insightful and delightful to study. If you love Shakespeare or Shagspear, Shaksper, whatever you want to call him (he wasn't very particular), then you will love the Riverside Shakespeare.
It took me three summer vacations to read all of this, going chronologically (as best we can know) through the works and alternating with chapters of Harold Bloom's _Shakespeare: The Invention of the Human_. I read from the older 1974 edition, which lacks the Funeral Elegy (which, as it turns out, is likely by John Ford, and not by Shakespeare). This was a great experience; there are many hidden treasures among the lesser known plays, and those I was most familiar with gained by being read in proximity to the others.
Altogether too big a book to lug around and too nice a book to make notes in the margins. I prefer the Signet editions of Shakespeare's plays for both those reasons and also because the littler books are accompanied by learned essays from the most famous commentators in the 400 years since Shakespeare's death. And because text explication is included at the bottom of each page. As a person who reads footnotes I don't want to be constantly flipping to the back of the book. Too fatiguing.Looks great on the shelf, though.
