https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/286930.Machinal
Celebrity Death Match Special: Determinism versus Free Will 8, This Time It's Machinal— So what did you think of the play?— It was great!
She did such a great job of portraying that poor woman.
A true story about a woman who killed her husband.
Many people are like that.— That's no excuse.— Look, it's a Greek tragedy.
In the scene where she's at work, the rest of the typing pool is obviously the chorus.— So?— Well, that view of life has a fair track record.— I'm still not buying it.— Right, let's talk about something that actually is an undisputed Greek tragedy.
Machinal is a play by Sophie Treadwell that focuses on a Young Woman meeting her Husband, and the inevitable downspiral of her life as she knows it.
It's a surprisingly adult and progressive play for being written in the 1920's, because of its major emphasis on feminism.The Young Woman is controlled throughout the entire play.
The world of Machinal is mechanical, claustrophobic, and disconnected- much like how the Young Woman must often feel.
And that bleeds into the striking social commentary that Treadwell obviously had in mind for this story.However much I enjoyed the social commentary, there are parts where it bled through a little too obviously, but it wasn't terrible enough for me to say this play is garbage.
I loved this play. It's a fantastic display of expressionism and the episodic structure works so well. It's also eerily relevant in the current climate regarding sexual assault, especially in places of work, and just women in society in general. Absolutely beautiful and completely tragic.
Like Eugene O'Neli, Treadwell shows her talent as an expressionist writing capturing themes of alienation and individualism on a profound level.
SPOILERS!!!!
The main plot of this story involves a woman named Helen who marries her boss against her desires.
She spirals into insanity which pushes her to murder him.
The last scene in which she begs to be spared the electric chair feels extremely visceral.
Expressionism's ability to capture raw human emotions really makes you feel sympathetic for Helen and draws you into the scene.
The best aspect of this play is how Treadwell really captured the tumultuous nature of human emotion.
How unlucky was this? Having arranged to see this months ago at the Almeida, we got to hang out afterwards with S-L and her erudite visiting American friend Daniel. Daniel's a playwright and so on and so forth. You say something like 'I wanted to bang some sense into her' he says something very complicated and technical and theatrery. It was a great opportunity. If only I hadn't soundly slept through at least half the play, I could have taken advantage of it.I am curious to know if I would have liked this better if I'd seen the whole thing....
معجبتنيش النهاردة حظي وحش مع الكتب مقابلتش رفيق كويس
This is probably a play that has to be seen to be fully appreciated, because of the Expressionist sound effects, but I liked the script, as simple as it was.
It's probably hard for people to understand why the character remained so passive until the last second, but I can identify with her feelings of helplessness and that everyone is in control of your life but you.
She always had choices and multiple opportunities to take control of her life, but she couldn't see them because of her fear and passivity that had been ingrained in her by nearly all her life experiences.
That's probably the real tragedy of the play.
I saw an off-off-Broadway production of "Machinal," in which the lead character, a woman who can't find her place in this world, was played by a different actress in every scene. That worked quite nicely as the middle-class murderess at center is something of an Everywoman. Why not have many women play her? I also like how it's not just society but also the unending sounds of the city that oppress the main woman and how the set (suggested by Treadwell) is fairly unchanging except for what's revealed behind ancillary doors. The horror of the sameness of everything!
I think this has become my all time favourite play. There is so much to say and talk about. Her anxieties, her inability to connect, her freedoms, her purity. The use of language, and the chosen words are so poetic and meaningful, that from the first time Young Woman talked I was engrossed. I will be thanking my English Lectures for putting this book on the curriculum!
I would love to see this acted out.Treadwell focuses on the mechanical, repetitive, and inhuman qualities that humans often evoke. It is daunting.
A young woman tries to escape her life in the modern, mechanical world. The author’s technique of overlapping dialog becomes poetic. Read for Modern Drama class
4.5/5*This is an incredible journey with such a twisted thought process of the characters . Everybody almost sound robotic and machine like. Loved it and respect it for being a play that show women in a different place in the world.
The best part of this book is the introduction, in which I learned about Treadwell and expressionism. The play is excellent. I am officially off the wagon of depressing literature about women...I'm discontinuing my nightly routine of reading Shirley Jackson short stories (The Renegade mixed with Machinal thoroughly depressed me) and I'm going to read something more upbeat. :)I recommend Bjork's film "Dancer in the Dark" which is also thoroughly depressing and disturbing in the same way.P.S. Putting the bookcrossing label on the cover that exclaims, "I'm Free! I'm not lost!" kind of choked me up...very appropriate.
What an incredible play!
Although written in 1928, this play is still relevant today.
She is so repressed by the mechanized lives of the people that make up the world of this expressionist play that she is driven to extreme action.
The world Helen lives in is more restrictive, certainly, than that faced by women today, but the echos of that world are still haunting us and it is important to remember where we came from and how far we have traveled in the last 100 years so we don't return to a world where women or any other group, is stripped of their rights and feel trapped in their own lives.
This play is a lovely work of modern theatre with a powerful theme that is still relevant today. Sophie Treadwell writes of a young woman in a world that has no dimension or life. All the characters except the young woman are caricatures with no depth. This play is absolutely amazing. I played the Adding Clerk in my school's production of this play. It was a blast and I learned a lot.
Ok, so I'm writing a review largely because everyone else ignores the fact that her husband rapes her, and she probably suffered from post-partum after giving birth to her daughter. So yeah, before you say you don't feel sorry for her, keep those two facts in mind.
A little bit wild, and mechanical (as it is supposed to be). Treadwell shows how modern life consumes people and turns them into a series of functions. I would like to see it on stage, and was worth the hour it took to read, but not my favorite.
I read this for Theatre Arts class and thoroughly enjoyed it. The writing is phenomenal, leaving you in utter shock as the events play out. All the symbolism throughout the story was very well done, and the story itself was incredible.
I feel I could read this many times before I completely understood the play, but the sentiments of longing and entrapment are very clear. Treadwell reminds me of Chopin's The Awakening or Ibsen's A Doll's House - what choices do we give women to control their own lives?
Sophie Treadwell does her job in setting the scene of a monochrome world where the Young Woman (deliberately depersonalised) is a cog in the machine - always submitting to others, her mother, husband, friend, lover, encapsulated in the scene near the end where even her hair is taken against her will (although I liked that she took it out of the cap at the end, perhaps a last try at self expression?).
A young woman trapped, who took the only kind of freedom she thought was possible, only to find herself even more caught in the endless grinding of the machine.
For me, the pacing was too much. The feeling of the constant drumbeat of the words, the clipping. I never could let go with it. The pace and long lapse in time seemed to supersede character development.
A mediaeval Passion Play meets a German Expressionist film in 20s urban America. The use of repetitive dialogue for rhythm and audio design is effective in placing the soft Everywoman in a hard mechanistic life.
I really loved this play. It reminded of Double Jeopardy or other early 2000's thriller movies. I know it had a deeper context about gender roles and the pressure and constraint women feel as the forced submissive figures but yeah I really loved it.
The play is very well constructed and evokes the suffocation the woman feels, so much so it is rather unpleasant to read. Like having someone hit you over the head with a hammer for 45 minutes and ask "Did that evoke unpleasantness?" Yes, but not something I would recommend to my friends.
حاول الكاتب التطرق لظاهرة المكننة والتحرش الجنسي في العمل من طرف رب العمل التخوف من الطرد التعسفي ولكنه فشل في ابصال الفكرة التطرق لنزوات الشخصيات وتداخل المصالح غاص في الحيتيات فضاع المعنى
The favorite play of one of my favorite teachers. What can I say.
Read to teach and would recommend it for that, quite good, going to be an interesting discussion.
Excellent play!
2.5
Wowowow
