https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/218977.The_Pilgrim_of_Hate
This is Ellis Peters. It's Cadfael.What else is there to say?If you haven't discovered this series give it a go...
If you've had the misfortune of seeing Mystery's video, you must cleanse your mind of it.
(I noticed an unfortunate trend toward conflict and negativity as that series progressed which ran contrary to the current of Peter's series.)Cadfael series: excellent historical fiction.
Ellis Peters draws the reader into the twelfth century with modern story telling but holds us there with a richness of detail which evokes a time and place which might as well be fictional.
Though the foreground of each chronicle is a murder mystery, behind it a nation and a culture are woven in a wondrous tapestry.
Before they arrive, news comes in of a murder that took place far away, to do with the differences between the two factions, but this seems to have no connection with events at the Abbey.
The story refers back to events in two previous Cadfael books, the first one, and the Virgin in the Ice, and it does have a bit of a spoiler for the first book, so may be one should pick this one up only after reading the first.
The various pilgrims who come to the Abbey present more than one puzzle and it was fun watching Brother Cadfael work them out, and also use some of his skills from his days as a crusader.
This novel is the tenth installment in the Cadfael series and like many of the others was adapted for television.
While the TV episode was watchable it was a bit muddled in spots and I looked forward to the book clearing up those aspects.
Whether or not you saw and enjoyed the television series, I recommend the book.
Cadfael and Berringer make amiable companions and Abbot Adolfous is as always a pleasure.
This is one of the more poetic and mystical of the Cadfael stories. It twists and turns and reveals the answers with patience and skill. However, not all answers are possible. A lovely book.
They 'whodunnit' element is always complex and deeply human with all the compassion one would wish to believe common among men who have dedicated their life to their religion.This story was fascinating, with references to previous books in the series, but not leaning on previous reading too much; it is entirely possible to enjoy these books out of sequence, as I have been doing.
(Excellent books and TV series)Cadfael is a Benedictine monk, ex soldier in the Crusades who came back to find a new life in the Abbey in Shrewsbury during the wars of succession between Empress Maud and King Stephen.
Pilgrims from all over England are coming for the celebration in the hope of a miracle.Coincident with this celebration, is the murder of a knight in Winchester, during meetings there to try and stop the civil war.As always, the story is interesting, giving an excellent picture of life during the 12th Century.
What little bit of mystery there was, wasn’t hard to figure out.
It was really very sad to see the veneration and worship wasted on a long dead human, instead of being directed toward God. I know it’s a fiction book, but people did live and die trusting their eternity to such empty hope.
It’s a strange mix of legend, facts, and fiction.
Then to vindicate Cadfeal for a deception perpetrated in another book, she has this long dead and completely absent ‘saint’ pull off several ‘miracles’.
Now these ‘miracles’ have nothing to do with the mystery.
It’s just as weak as the mystery.
Another wonderful Brother Cadfael story! This one is less about the mystery itself, and more about the people it distantly touches on. By the end of the book, I was glad to learn the solution to the mystery, but was much more interested in what happened to the people. This would be a great mystery novel for folks who aren't normally fans of mysteries.
But to be honest I’m hoping this was merely a less than stellar volume because I wouldn’t mind rereading the series (and I’m always afraid to reread the faves of my youth because far too often it’s like ‘wow, what was I thinking’).If I read this (and I think maybe I had) almost none of it stuck with me.
He has taken a strange vow to walk barefoot and wear a huge galling cross the whole way, something even the pious Cadfael thinks is strange and stupid.The pilgrims command a good deal of the scenes.
"Put the crown in her hands and she may, not so much drop it, as hurl it at someone against whom she has a score to settle."During Bishop Henry's own conference to smooth over his previous affiliation with his half-brother Stephen, a knight is murdered in the act of protecting a petitioner for King Stephen.
At which, as I know, you are a very poor hand." A strange pair of pilgrims, one who has mutilated his feet in a vow to travel barefoot to Wales, and a dark silent young man of the same age come to haunt the abbey during the celebrations.
Not my favorite of the Brother Cadfael series, so more of a 3.5⭐ rounded up. I have grown to enjoy the people of the Abbey & the town of Shrewsbury. The backdrop of the Cousins War contributes to the context of time & place. I do look forward to the next one!
Not my favorite of the Brother Cadfael series, so more of a 3.5⭐️ rounded up. I have grown to enjoy the people of the Abbey & the town of Shrewsbury. The backdrop of the Cousins War contributes to the context of time & place. I do look forward to the next one!
One of her best. Very touching. I really resent the way the BBC/PBS version twisted it.
I just love Brother Cadfael! Takes place in 1140 near Wales. I recommend that you briefly go to Wikipedia to get a rough idea of the politics of King Stephen’s reign.
I didn't enjoy this book as much as some others from the Brother Cadfael series.
I thought there were several confusing subplots (e.g. the gamesters) that did come together eventually but not before some serious head-scratching about their purpose in the story.
I also found St. Winifred's 'two deaths' story confusing as told by Ellis Peters and had to look the saint up in Wikipedia to understand what was going on.
If there is such a thing as 'too much of a happy ending' then this book has it.
Not only is everything resolved in the end but a sickly and sweet joy overpowers everyone and everything.
Two young people have also come with their aunt, who has taken care of them since they were orphaned; a young woman named Melangell and her sixteen-year-old brother, Rhun, who is crippled by a withered leg, but who is uncomplaining to an extraordinary degree.As the twenty-second day of June, 1141, approaches (the feast day of their Saint), Brother Cadfael realizes that somehow, the murderer of Rainard Bossart might be one of the many pilgrims and penitents who have come to the festival; and the book takes a winding way through the maze, as the Empress Matilda sits in Winchester, calls herself “Lady of the English”, and proceeds to antagonize her supporters and the people of London.
It's the festival of St. Winifred, and as pilgrims come from all over to pray to the Saint for healing, Cadfael mulls whether the little fact that the bones in the lead-lined coffin people will be visiting aren't actually Winifred's could be a problem.
I'm giving the book five stars because, in spite of a small disappointment with the brevity of Cadfael's reunion with his old "friend," there are some really keen insights into the early church's teaching about suffering.
A Shrewsbury arrivano gli echi di questa svolta, ma tutti sono in fermento per l'arrivo dei pellegrini in occasione della traslazione di Santa Winifred.Su questo sfondo si dipana la storia di due pellegrini particolari, una giovane fanciulla bella e dolce, del suo fratello puro di cuore e storpiato nel corpo e di un personaggio che ritorna dal passato (giusto qualche libro fa).Il giallo è particolare questa volta, non c'è un antefatto nel quale conosciamo il morto, ma ci giunge la notizia dell'assassinio.
In questo libro molte cose non sono cià che sembrano è solo la mente svelta di fratello Cadfael saprà eterne sotto la giusta luce.

I'm with the readers who liked this book a lot. Yes, it is slow and the murder occurs off stage. Nevertheless, Ellis Peters tells a good story. The characters are interesting and well-rounded, the Medieval world makes sense and we understand the motivation and psychology of individuals. I savour and enjoy the prose, marvelling at the ease with which the author creates a believable and empathetic world. I am a big fan of murder mysteries, but I'd read Cadfael for my interest in medieval history and society without the mystery.
Grand as always. While I don't agree with all the theology, I find the themes of miracles, grace, and justice heartwarming. My first introduction to Cadfael, and my favorite, though to give fair warning, this mystery has spoilers about his past.
One of the best of the Brother Cadfael stories. It's important to have read The Virgin in the Ice before reading this one.
These are such easy mysteries to read and enjoy, lots of medieval atmosphere, interesting characters and character studies.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
Re-read of an old favourite.
Will admit that it took me a bit to read this book but, it was more me than the story itself.The abbey is celebrating the pilgrimage that the many members of the abbey took a few years past to bring Saint Winifred's remains to the abbey.
Only the Saint, God and Brother Cadfael know that her true remains still rest in Wales but hopefully, she will still smile down upon the many that have come to join in the celebration and pray for her blessing.
This matter is grave enough that Brother Cadfael's true son, has come to see if this young man could be one of the many who are temporarily lodging at the abbey.
There are no spoilers here but just a note that Peters continues to thread various characters and issues of previous stories into later installments of the series.
I’ve written before that there are some which do this in that there is a cadre of characters supporting the central detective.
Not only is there that central crew upon whom Cadfael relies but old friends return or their fates are updated.
Peters is allowing her creation to grow or at least allow the reader to see characters more deeply ...
We are allowed to see that Cadfael is not sprung fully formed and perfect but may also be a pilgrim on a journey ....
The murder doesn't even happen anywhere near Shrewsbury.
Brother Cadfael and Hugh Beringar don't have the luxury of investigating the murder site.
Rhun, Melangell, Matthew, and Cirian are the main characters.
Brother Cadfael gives them balms to help and things go well.
Until Cirian decides to leave unexpectedly so that his shadow, Matthew, can properly court Melangell.
Matthew is torn by the decision and follows Cirian out into the woods.
The books include chapters of the next volume, so you aren't reading the whole thing, at least I'm not.
The tales are shot and can be read relatively fast
I probably lost something in reading this one out of the context of the other volumes in the series (which I read twenty years ago).
Without the backstory, I found this fairly hard to follow.
The book does provide a fairly detailed sense of life in 12th Century England.
It seemed a lot more complex and sophisticated than I would have expected, and I have no way to gauge the historical accuracy of what one reads here.Based on other reviews, this book is fine for the dedicated Cadfael fan, but it is likely to work better if the series is read in order.
Brother Cadfael is such a delightfully human protagonist.
Despite his monastic vows of seclusion and piety, he can't keep himself from helping his fellow man.
It's what makes him such a lovely key character (beyond the fun of being a 12th century detective of course).
This book particularly highlights how Cadfael retains the most powerful two human traits: curiosity and hope.
He believes in a righteous world where people use common sense and godly love for their fellow man to do what is right.
And of course, who doesn't love the reappearance of the much beloved Olivier de Bretagne?
