https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/67999.Worlds_of_Exile_and_Illusion
I am glad I made the decision to read the Hainish cycle from the start, even though I owe this to my OCD reading style.
While each novel is entirely capable of standing alone, has very different protagonists and raises very different issues, the continuity of the world-building was satisfying.
I especially liked how protagonists from each novel became so legendary that they are mentioned much later in time in subsequent novels.
The ethical concerns become deeper and more elaborate over the course of the cycle.
To me what's most impressive is how deftly Le Guin navigates and celebrates cultural difference.
Am așteptat cu mare nerăbdare acest volum încă de când s-a anunțat că va apărea și la noi în traducere, pentru că este un ciclu ce n-a fost niciodată publicat începând cu primul volum.
Așteptarea a meritat, pentru că Urslua Le Guin creează lumi absolut fascinante în interiorul unor lumi la fel de fascinante, și asta nu în romane de mare întindere, de 500-600 de pagini, ci în trei nuvele care de-abia se întind pe 400 și ceva de pagini.
Un pic datate nuvelele, dar la fel de profunde.
They aren't given any real humanity in the book, or not that any of her viewpoint characters are exposed to.
This changes later in UKL's work, as pretty much all the characters are shown as real people, and even given sympathetic viewpoints which are nevertheless in conflict with the main characters.
UKL continues to develop as a writer, getting better and better with time.
Now on to novel 3 in this book, which is called City of Illusions.(later still) Just finished the last one, City of Illusions, and here she's getting to be a very good writer.
A novel that focuses so heavily on personal identity, memory, illusion, deception, and directly quotes the Dao De Ching, all with the backdrop of the Hainish universe is pretty much guaranteed to be a favorite for me.On a far future Earth, our protagonist (later called Falk) is found naked in the woods with no memory of his identity.
This issue is also found in Total Recall/We Can Remember It For You Wholesale, although Le Guin's treatment of the issue is a bit more subtle than Dick's - this is Ursula Le Guin after all!The plot is complicated for such a short novel and as usual with the Hainish novels, the reader gets the feeling that there's a lot more going on in the vast historical background than meets the eye, which is a necessary ingredient for any sufficiently believable universe.

Thousands of years later, the Hanish people are rediscovering their universe, and the lost colonies that have survived without them…some in very odd and interesting ways.The Basics: Rocannon’s World is really a story in two parts.
Though the journey lasts only a night, she returns to find that eight years have passed, and that her husband has since passed away.That’s the prologue.The rest of the book picks up years later, with the story of Rocannon himself, who is now living on that world, doing research on the people who live there.
These are Le Guin's first three novels, and the first three set in the Hainish universe (which also includes The Left Hand of Darkness, The Dispossessed, The Word For World is Forest, and many short stories).
These lean a little heavier towards the fantasy side of the genre; science fiction elements are at play, but the central tension in all three stories is of technology being suppressed, destroyed, or otherwise made inaccessible to mankind.
Le Guin is never anti-technology, she's more interested in seeing the balance between its benefits and abuses.
For pure enjoyment, PoE was my favorite- developed characters, a driving plot, and a great balance between the science fiction and fantasy elements of the story.
No me han gustado todas las novelas por igual, pero como la lectura va de menos a más, me quedo con la última nota. Mi primer contacto real con Le Guin, muy satisfactorio. Ahora a por sus obras más premiadas en este interesante universo.https://dreamsofelvex.blogspot.com/20...
Three Hainish Novels is an omnibus collection of UKL’s early novels Rocannon’s World, Planet of Exile and City of Illusions. Rocannon’s World:  This is the earliest and the least satisfying of the three. Rocannon is an ethnologist of the League of All Worlds (what would become the precursor of the Ekumen of later novels when Le Guin’s Hainish Cycle actually took shape) who’s intrigued by the natives of Fomalhaut II when one of its representatives visits the nearest League outpost. Coupled with h
He enlists the aid of one of the native species (the Angyar) to reach the enemy’s base and use their ansible (view spoiler)[(UKL invented the “ansible,” an instantaneous communications device that ties the Hainish worlds together; the humanities are limited to the speed of light otherwise.) (hide spoiler)] to contact the League.It’s an old-fashioned quest story and, while Rocannon is a sympathetic character, it would be an otherwise forgettable novel except that it lays the foundation for how the worlds of the League develop mindspeech, telepathy.
It's so difficult to describe Ursula LeGuin's writing style. Sometimes I feel as if she's shoved me off a cliff, and I am falling into an unfamiliar world, snatching at fragments, falling through darkness and stars and treetops. At other times it seems that she speaks from an immeasurably great distance, that I'm straining with all that's in me to hear and understand her. Such is the sharp, spare complexity of her writing. This collection was remarkable.
Next, let's look at each of these works individually and then how they carry the markers for the Hainish.Book 1 - Rocannon's World -- the longer versionIn Rocannon's World, the reader will find a small reconnaissance team from the “benevolent” side (the Hain) in an ongoing conflict between two interstellar civilizations exploring planets for their possible use for colonization and for basing construction privileges.
There are loose connections between the books' groups into the Hainish Cycle the explorers/colonizers called the Starlords in Rocannon's World are the farborn in this work Same general idea, just a different way of saying it owing to the lower level of technology on Planet of Exile rather than Rocannon's World.
Le Guin, and I also know that none of the three books contained in this omnibus are considered her finest work, up to the level of her well-known classics, but I was still happy to receive it as a gift so I could finally see what all the fuss was about.Rocannon's World is an interesting hybrid of science fiction and fantasy, taking a very traditional high fantasy setting and presenting it through the lens of an ethnologist (Rocannon), who views the creatures as alien species.
"El mundo de Rocannon" es sencillito, sin mucha profundidad ni originalidad argumental; sin embargo, entretenido y una buena novela para meterte en el universo de la Liga de Todos los Mundos, pese a que no tiene ningún tipo de continuidad con los demás.
"El planeta del exilio" es mucho mejor, una novela corta muy entretenida y con unos temas más definidos (para saber más, aquí).
LeGuin sure loves to have her heroes trek over winter landscapes, which makes for nice lonely, rainy day reading.
I was somewhat disturbed at how all the female characters are passive and secondary, most often left behind lovers of the hero who must struggle alone (across a cold landscape) against all odds to save...
something.It's when the against-all-odds battles are happening that she's strongest, and because of this I enjoyed the middle book best, which is nearly all a siege.Helpful hint; if it's in italics or labeled as an excerpt from a book, you absolutely do not have to read it, and in fact should not, because it will only slow you down.
Reading her more mature work has spoilt me.
These are good in their own right, but lack the sheer simplicity, panache and confidence that the others had to make you believe these worlds actually exist.
Too much artifice...just a little, but already too much.
These three novellas are also much less coherently and overtly political than her later books, drifting away from the kind of fiction that I had been originally searching for.
They are not even that anthropological...too much of looking from the outside in, compared to the later work.Diminishing returns is setting in...time to move on to other stuff for awhile...
Overall Rating - 4/5A collection of UKL's first three novels, and first three in the Hainish Universe, World's of Exile and Illusion does a wonderful job of showcasing LeGuin's progression as an early writer of science fiction.
If you are interested in Ursula K LeGuin and enjoy her writing style, you will probably enjoy reading this book, but don't expect another Left Hand of Darkness.Planet of Exile - 4/5This story was a clear improvement over Rocannon's World, and I enjoyed it very much.
I did not expect Le Guin's early entries in the Hainish cycle to be as interlinked as they are (at least, as interlinked as may be given the vast amounts of time and space that occurs between each of them), considering that I started with The Dispossessed, Left Hand, and The Word for World, in that order, none of which have the same kind of thematic and situational throughline that these three novels have.Of the three, I enjoyed Rocannon's World the most, I think, given its more traditional hero's journey with fantastical elements based on a science fiction premise, much in the same vein as Robert Heinlein's Glory Road.
J'ai adoré. C'est complexe, bien bâti, c'est accrocheur dès le prologue...je vais lire la suite!
Rocannon's World is a Wikipedia entry of the future.Planet of Exile is driftwood in an ocean.City of Illusions is Halloween every day.
they're not perfect. but they're real dang good.
This omnibus volume of the first three books of the Hainish Cycle is also available under the title  Worlds of Exile and Illusion . I chose to lead with the simpler, more plainly descriptive title, mainly because it happened to be this edition that I borrowed from the public library. To be sure, it's a bit of a misnomer. The first three installments in Ursula Le Guin's multiple award-winning series—titled Rocannon's World, Planet of Exile, and City of Illusions—are really more on the order of no
Adding to the confusion is the fact that two further novels published in the 1970s—The Dispossessed and The Word for World Is Forest—take place before all four books in series chronology, while the 2000 novel The Telling is the latest in both publication and canon order.
Great collection for existing fans, maybe not the absolute best introduction for new readers, simply because she has written better works, not because these have any barrier to entry or understanding.Each of the three books follows the thread and mechanism recurrent in Le Guin's work - a protagonist new or alien to the world around them.
In Le Guin's early work, men are often the viewpoint characters, though she has written some brilliant women into her work since.
It would be interesting to know what happens to the women in these stories, their tales feel even more abridged than the men we often leave prematurely, and it would be good to find out what Le Guin intended for them.
Planet of Exile was my favorite of these three.Rocannon's World: A quick read delivering what I expect from Le Guin: a fantasy/quest type plot set in a unique sci-fi setting within her broader Hainish universe.
Enjoyable, quick read overall.Planet of Exile: A lot to process here about colonialism/settlement.
Due to the short length, I feel like I just got a taste of a story, rather than the whole thing, but still engaging and thought provoking.City of Illusions: Another one of Le Guin's quest novels.
Le Guin doesn't explicitly tie together the Hainish novels often, but I thought it really worked here.
While I would still rate "The Left Hand of Darkness" and "The Dispossessed" higher (the latest and earliest in the chronology of this Universe, respectively) I've really enjoyed these and anyone looking to start with LeGuin would be fine here.
"Planet of Exile" picks up the story hundreds of years later, on a world abandoned by the League due to a war, and with the inhabitants left to fend for themselves.
And "City of Illusion" continues again hundreds of years later, showing what became of one of the League worlds, and pointing the way to the future chronology established in tLHoD.

The three together bring into clear frightening focus what an initially benign grouping like the League of All Worlds might be about 2 thousand years into the future.
High intelligence life forms may not include humans after all.
Rocannon's World begins with Rocannon himself, an ethnographer on Fomalhaut II, sent to evaluate and help prepare the HILFs for "protective entry" into the League.
Planet of Exile is occupied by Rolery and her people who are isolated, primitive, decades behind the technology of the League.
Who is human, who alien?
I liked each novel in this volume better than the last, which is how it should be.
About that one, City of Illusions, it felt as much like a mystery novel as science fiction, insofar as the main character spends the duration of the plot trying to find his lost identity through the titular illusions.
That being said, I had the same sense of foreboding I always get when I read a mystery: the choices the author makes in wrapping this up are going to determine, retrospectively, how I felt about the experience of reading everything leading up to that ending.
This one didn't disappoint, and frankly, I really liked how all three of these stories ended.
Continuing with my Le Guin marathon. This collection of three novels is subtle, brilliant, and chronically interesting. Rocannon's World is a penetrating exploration of the clash of colonizers and colonized; arrogant ignorance dominating native intelligence. The crushing brutality of violent humanity magnifies that jewel-like rarity of the intelligent, empathic, and compassionate individual who tries - against overwhelming odds - to do the right thing. Ursula K. Le Guin never ceases to amaze with her world-building and deep metaphor.
Reunidas en un solo volumen, las tres primeras novelas del ciclo del Ekumen resaltan por su espectacular percepción del futuro y de las relaciones humanas que se establecen en un paradigma tan estremecedor como el que nos presenta Úrsula K. Le Guin. Absorbente, poderosa, magnética y soberbiamente narrada, esta colección de novelas hará las delicias de los aficionados a la ciencia ficción y te proporcionará material de calidad para debatir sobre cuestiones de profundidad cósmica.
4.5 უფრო Dispossessed-ივით და Left hand-ივით მაგარი ვერ არის :დ მაგრამ სხვა მხრივ <3 სამი ნოველაა ამ გამოცემაში გაერთიანებული, ათასწლეულებით დაკავშირებული ერთმანეთთან. თემაც აერთიანებს დაახლოებით - კულტურებს შორის ურთიერთობა, განსაკუთრებით განვითარებულის და native-ს, ბოლო წიგნი კი თითქმის მთლიანად ტყუილსა და სიმართლეს 'ეძღვნება' :D და მთავარი გმირივით ტყუილ-მართალში ხარ კითხვისას და მაგასავით იტანჯები :დ overall - recommended :3
