https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1892846.Astral_Body
He very methodically combined information from a number of theosophical authors in the early part of the 20th century.
These books are a wealth of esoteric information.
However these books must be read in the following order: Etheric Double, Astral Body, Mental Body, Causal Body, and Solar System.
Although not all are mentioned in Goodreads, I recommend ordering the Quest book editions.
You can get them on Amazon or from Quest Books.First published in 1927 this book covers the astral body, its constitution and function, its use during sleep, and its use after death.
It also covers the astral plane and its inhabitants.
I read this book every so many years just to reinforce all the incredible information that is in this book.
This is the second volume in a series of five books I believe which Powell did an incredible job of compiling all the information from a large number of books written by Annie Besant and C W Leadbeater as well as occasional tidbits from Blavatsky and other authors.
It focuses solely on the Astral body, world and anything that touches on that realm though it does have occasional asides about other realms though these are kept to a minimum and are only to elucidate a point he is making.
What on this plane is a nomenon in the mind's eye, becomes a phenomenon in the astral world that is objective.
Also the author talks about how a person works out all the things they would have like to have done in the physical world, if only they had the fortitude, and resources to complete them.
If a person has over come certain character flaws, and has some knowledge of esoteric things, their stay in the astral world can be as little as 1 to 2 years, with some people by passing it altogether.
Not much to say, yet. Still digesting it :))
prodotto di un'attenta analisi della letteratura filosofica presente nei primi del '900, questo testo è il secondo di una serie di fortunati scritti di Powell. ottimo nella trattazione dei fenomeni connessi con questo corpo e semplice nella spiegazione
Interest concepts..I don't believe everything in the book but found it very interesting.
A person needs a good background in the theory of astral plane to understand it. Otherwise, it is difficult to understand what is going on.
You don't have to believe to read. Read you ever wondered what is that astral body that psychics talk about.
A must for those interested in understanding human nature at a deeper level.
