https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9201647-why-men-love-bitches

I bought it...I read it...I read it for the second time around...I've learned so many things that I can't reveal because I discovered so many things...to myself and even for the benefit of my significant other...I applied it...It worked...It was successfuuuullll...Investment...Last wordS...WORTH KEEPING!!!
I am not really into self-help books like this because I really don't give a damn about guys.
But I just couldn't make myself give a damn on whether men I know think I'm a doormat or a dream girl.
I really think this book is a must read for all the girls out there who think that the sun revolves around their boyfriends.
This book has tips on how to keep things interesting and to make guys crazy over you.I won't recommend it to guys though, because I don't want you to know our tricks.
Many of the techniques showed in the book are going to work on a large number of males, in my opinion.It is also of my opinion that the outcome of this book is disgusting.
All the prescriptive and inductive methods on how a woman should "deal" with a man are the sign a given woman has been looking for the wrong male profile.
The "dumb fox" - the archetypical woman who plays dumb to get what she wants and that is also the star role in the book - is not the woman I would look for, neither as a companion, nor as a friend.
Most of the "men" described in this book are douchebags.
Too much self-respect to put up with a man who always wants to chase me.
Too much self-respect to put up with a man who likes to play games.
I'm so tired of books that advise women to take lying as a normal part of getting to know a man.
Because I can have self-respect and love for myself without being a bitch.
I can't believe this author suggested that when your man finally calls you a bitch, you've succeeded at something.
And, most of the book's advice only pertains to losers and the women who want them.
This is the worst "self help" book I have ever read. The dumb fox theory completely negates the entire book. How are you going to prove you don't need a man around when you can't change a tire or lightbulb without him? RIDICULOUS! I'm not going to dumb myself down to make my boyfriend feel better about himself that's his insecurity issues to work on! This book basically teaches a woman how to play mind games and be passive agressive which in my opinion are NOT going to land you a healthy, long term relationship!
I solemnly swear that I am up to no good with this review Curiosity never killed anyone. Who? WHO TOLD YOU THAT?!I read this book out of curiosity and for experimental purposes. I did it for science. Besides it was either this or 7 Habits of Highly Effective People by Stephen. R. Covey. I feel effective enough as I am right now. Should've gone with the effectiveness anyway. So I spent the past few days learning about the bitch theory: How to be a bitch. The bitch lifestyle. What the bitch eats,
Bitch (noun)- A woman who won't bang her head against the wall obsessing over someone else's opinion--be it a man or anyone else in her life.
A man's guide to being the greatest jerk of a woman's life - Grow up my friends.➡ The only thing I can say concerning this book is take what you want and leave the rest, fashion it to your own use.
Women empowerment gone awry." I liked quite a few things about this book, a few hold true, but this just wasn't me.
وسبق ان تكلمت عن الاسئلة ..تحبني..مرتاح ..مب مرتاح..وغيرها وغيرهاالقاعدة الثامنة عشر:يحترم الرجل المرأة التي تطالب بما تريد بطريقة واضحه وبالمختصر المفيد لانها اللغة الوحيدة التي يفهمها الرجال..فهو لا يفهم لغة الدموع والمراوغة حول الهدف وهالشي ايضا" سبق وذكرته سابقا" في شرح احدى النقاط..القاعدة التاسعة عشرة :معظم النساء يتوقون الى الحصول على اشياء من الرجل...يجدر بهن ان يقدمنها هن لانفسهن..!!تعتقد الفتاة الضعيفة للاسف بأنها كل ما اعطت كلما حازت على رضا الرجل وكلما قدر لها الرجل ذلك.._وبالتالي تشعر بالرضا عن نفسها..فهي تجهل للاسف ان الرضا عن النفس يبدأ من الداخل_ .
Yes the title is a bit much but you get the true meaning of the word bitch when you actually read the book.
The underlying premise of the book is about having self respect, self love and maintaining control of yourself and your power as a woman.
This book is a secret weapon for women every where.
I truly felt awakened and empowered in every sense of the word after first reading this book.
It truly changed my life and I have not said that about many books.
A must read for all women!
When this book came recommended to me from a few members of a woman's group I belonged to at the time, skeptical wouldn't begin to describe what I thought.
This book can't help you find, keep or get a man, right?
After a few chapters, you realize the book is more about you as a woman and being a strong woman who can sift through the nonsense some men spew, than it is about finding, dating and keeping a relationship.
The one thing this book will teach any woman is to know that "you are all you need." Even if you already know this, it's a good thing to have confirmed.
A few years later I met my current boyfriend, and a year and half later we are both completely happy and in love living together.
The thing I realized about this book though is, that yes it works, but don't you want to fall in love with someone and be loved back for being YOU?
The book works YES, I used its tactics for several years by just not caring or having my heart invested, but really, don't you want a man that loves you for you, not bs mind games you can play?

And as Dr. Sana always concern with girls' issues, problems and relationships, she advised all the girls to read this book.
But now after I read it, I figured out that she just made a very important recommendation and MARVELOUS as well.=================Why men love bitches ?
But still since it digs up in relationships issues, you still benefit an awful lot.I really fell for this author.
She is like someone who says the awful truth in your face and when you dare to take a defensive situation she slaps that face.DEFINETLY IT'LL BECOME ONE OF MY FAVORATES!!
6 stars! A 100% honest book... Definitely worth keeping!I first picked up this book attracted by the intriguing title. So how does Sherry Argov define a bitch? Bitch (n): A woman who won’t bang her head against the wall obsessing over someone else’s opinion— be it a man or anyone else in her life. She understands that if someone does not approve of her, it’s just one person’s opinion; therefore, it’s of no real importance. She doesn't try to live up to anyone else’s standards— only her own. Beca
So how does Sherry Argov define a bitch?
Bitch (n): A woman who won’t bang her head against the wall obsessing over someone else’s opinion— be it a man or anyone else in her life.
Qualities which define a bitch:
1. The biggest variable between a bitch and a woman who is too nice is fear.
The bitch shows that she’s not afraid to be without him.2.
It's just that she feels(and I agree) that most relationship problems arise because men do not understand the worth of their partners.
And which girl would want that?
Well, play it cool girl.

3.5 StarsI picked this out of sheer curiosity and somehow it turned into a bookish detour.Non fiction is unfamiliar territory but I was pressed for time due to festive torture...ahem..I meant cleaning.Bitch (noun): A woman who won’t bang her head against the wall obsessing over someone else’s opinion— be it a man or anyone else in her life.
What is their strategy to navigate this sinister labyrinth?The major takeaway is a woman needs her own approval and is responsible for her own happiness.
Lets not turn this into a team exercise.Man woman relationship dynamics lead to endless debate and sketchy findings.
I read this on the recommendation of a friend, and it was the worst book I have ever read in my life - which is really saying something, because I read 50 Shades of Grey.If this book is by any means an accurate depiction of modern relationships - hell no.
I will gladly just stay single for the rest of my days rather than dealing with this fucking nonsense:"Whenever he does something handy around the house like putting up a shelf, praise him.
Now I know he truly does love me.'" Holy hell.
This book in my opinion Really sucks.Why?beacuse I believe anyone strategizing sooo much to not be treated like a "door mat" needs advice on self steem NOT on how to trick men.In my opinion you are trying to fix something that is not the root of the problem.
But before people pass judement on the book, the author Sherry Argov, points out from the beginning what she really means by the work 'Bitch' within the content of her book.
She says NO woman should be what most people picture when they think of a bitch: abrassive, bad attitude, ungrateful, mean, etc...
What Sherry means by the word bitch, is a woman who is independent, doesn't give up her interests or her life for anyone, doesn't compromise things that she values, stands up for herself when someone tries to take advantage of her, and doesn't take bullshit from anyone.
اهم القواعد-دعيه يلعب دور الصياد-لا تقتربي كثيرا ولا تضحي بشيء من اجله اذا كنت ثرثارة اكثر من اللزوم
There is a lot of focus on the alpha male stereotype, and throughout the book the idea that all women have the same goals in a relationship is prevalent.
Not everybody fits into the author's polar presentations of male and female.
Although the title suggests a forward thinking, liberal attitude towards relationships, this book was very conservative.Finally, what bothered me most was the "dumb fox" theory - in short, that women should pretend the men in their lives are the ones with the authority whilst achieving their own goals in a sneaky or subtle manor.
دا بالظبط زي ما علانة قالت!بس بصراحة الكتاب ينفع أكتر للناس اللي هي لسه في مرحلة التعارف والـdating يعني لو واحدة مرتبطة من فترة طويلة ممكن ما تعرفش تطبق كل اللي فيه بس برضو فيه نصايح مهمة جدًا للحفاظ على شكل العلاقة متوازن خاصة لو هي مع شخص مش متفهم أو حاسة إنها ضحية في العلاقة أو إنها نكدية وهو مكبر دماغهالكتاب يعيد تعريف كلمة Bitch اللي معناها هنا مش "عاهرة" بل معناه السيدة الواثقة من نفسها المستقلة التي تضع راحتها أولًا وتضع نفسها في المقام الأوليعني باختصار بيقول للبنت المصرية : ماتضحيش عشان حد يختي..محدش يستاهل تتعبي عشانه غير نفسك!

The book talks a lot about the excuses we make for people we care for when they don’t reciprocate- so that’s where that second star is coming from.But I’m a naturally open, brutally honest person.
And the book repeated over and over, you’re not acting secure to get a man, you’re acting secure because it’s what’s good for you- and it just so happens that’s what men want.But in so many places the author advised flat out deception and manipulation, while insisting that’s not what she was advocating.
It’s another kiss of death to show a man how much you care for him.
Yes the title is a bit much but you get the true meaning of the word bitch when you actually read the book.
The underlying premise of the book is about having self respect, self love and maintaining control of yourself and your power as a woman.
This book is a secret weapon for women every where.
I truly felt awakened and empowered in every sense of the word after first reading this book.
It truly changed my life and I have not said that about many books.
A must read for all women!
Se trata de ser enérgica y de evitar que un hombre te trate como a un tapete.
Los muchachos no quieren a una mujer que lo asfixie (¡y las mujeres sienten lo mismo con los hombres!).Además, hay muchos ejemplos, escenarios y situaciones en las que las acciones de la chica "agradable" difieren de la "perra", es por eso que los hombres aman a las "perras".
Sí, acepto muchos puntos en este libro, especialmente los que están al final, ya que se enfocó más en mejorar cómo una niña debería verse a sí misma como alguien especial para que los hombres también las vean de esa manera.
Wow, where do I start...I would never have read this book just because of the horrible title.
However, I'm glad Marsha explained the title so that I could get by the "horrible" name thing I was dealing with.
I enjoyed this book because it gave me a different insight into when nice girls do some of the things that their "mama" taught them in order to "hold a man..(i.e. food is to his heart and stuff like that)" is not the best method for gaining a mans respect.
If you are a shrewd person who knows how to get the better of other person in any relationship, by means of lies, manipulation, deception, hot/cool attitudes, and other power plays, then you are a BITCH.
The author repeatedly urges you to transition from Nice Girl to BITCH, so that you may finally have your shot at love.
Ladies and gentlemen, you don't need to read either of these 2 books to understand why SOME men love/marry bitches, I'll tell you right now: Because it TAKES ONE TO KNOW ONE, and no one else will put up with either of them
He is in MAD hearts with the queen bitch (me, unless he has some other special lady friend I don't know about.
And if he doesn't back sass i might even give him his clothes.Anyway, this book is not going to turn into some assertive, sassy, "Who the fuck do you think you're talking to.
I know you ain't talking to me." kind of girl if genetics didn't already give you a head start.
Still, this book did make me laugh and I did enjoy pretending to be offended and shocked when Mr. Angelina pointed out that I can be a little crispy.
Why Men Love Bitches is a great self-help book for women who end up putting too much of themselves into a relationship either habitually or particular to one relationship.
I do have the tendency to give my all (too much) so this book was very helpful for me.
Any good self-help book is stating common sense/the obvious, but the really excellent ones say it in a way that motivates you to make real change.
That being said, being overly-simplistic about how men and women are does not detract from the overall message of the book, which is that a woman should keep her center and some healthy boundaries at all times.
