https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/112080.Queens_Play
I bumped my initial 4-star rating to 5, since this book was still making me think, and shake my head in wonder, several days after I finished reading it.Francis Crawford of Lymond has been summoned by the Dowager Queen of Scotland, who is temporarily living in France with the 7 year old Mary Queen of Scots, to come to France to protect the young queen from an unknown person who is trying to assassinate her.
It is funny that I know that there are four more books left, and I know some history about Scotland, but I am still chewing my finger nails off anticipating the worst outcome possible. Ahhh, it must be a great a book. Dorothy Dunnet, you have an amazing writing style.
I don’t believe I’ve had a sharp turnaround of this sort before, going from having a poor opinion of a character in one book and liking the same character in the next, and if I have, it mustn’t have stayed with me for later recalling.
The atmosphere of court intrigue as opposed to the insane castle-to-fortress-to-countryside adventure route of the previous volume also helps in following the narrative with ease, for me at least, as I tend to like that setting.Those who complained about the language and foreign phrases in Game of Kings will be pleased to know that this time Dunnett doesn’t overuse this technique, and not only does the language become clearer but also flows better because of it.
The list of possible suspects is extensive: his old nemesis, Margaret Lennox is still plotting for the English side; his own ally, Mary de Guise - the Queen Mother, might be willing to throw him to the lions for confronting her, Catherine de Medicis is still young, but she is already hungry for power and she sees the de Guise family as a threat; the Scots themselves don't like to be ruled from a foreign shore and might be willing to sabotage the planned marriage between Mary and the French Dauphin; the Irish are also in the thick of it, believing the French would be more ready to support their cause if they abandon the Scots.In the first book, Dunnet used a character as a straight man to balance Francis wildness, as an apprentice and follower of the charismatic leader.
I said on twitter that I am smart enough to read Dunnett, but just barely.
She layers intrigue and action with some beautiful language but I was often forced to go back and reread several pages because i missed something vital; she doesn't hold your hand and warn you when something major is coming up.I still can't help but seeing Lymond as a historical Bugs Bunny with more at stake.
Perhaps more depth will come of his character though the seven book series.
Great series so far.
Historical Fiction is rarely my thing but I will continue working through Dunnett's.
I mean, the dude even competes brilliantly at what amounts to Renaissance parkour.All this, and he spends most of the novel drunk out of his mind, too.Lymond, in short, is the guy everybody wants on his or her side but whom nobody can be sure actually is, even when they're pretty sure he's said he would be.
As in the previous novel, he spends a lot of his time concealing his identity from everyone, including the reader, who often thinks she knows which of the novel's other characters he's impersonating in a given scene but who turns out, often, to be wrong.
It is two years since the close of The Game of Kings and someone is planning the murder of young Mary Queen of Scots, and Mary of Guise summons Francis Crawford of Lymond to France to stop the murderous plot.
Thady Boy Ballagh nee' Lymond charms the decadent French court with his wit, sarcasm and music as Dunnett slowly unpeels the layers of her tale with plot twists and surprise turns around every corner.
I didn't need to swallow this whole...
But there's a point in every book of this series where I feel like I'm strapped to the saddle of a runaway horse, hurtling helplessly toward the conclusion, with no chance of stopping or slowing until I've arrived, breathless, bleary-eyed, and shaking, at the last page.
This series is like nothing else I've ever read (which is saying something).
I want to say Queens' Play is my favorite in the series, but I remember how great the next book is, so I might find that I think that each is my favorite as I finish them.
There is such a wealth of detail that makes up the bigger picture, I’m sure that I missed things, that a second read will reveal more, but this book lived and breathed and I know that I have to read on, to find out what happens next and understand where this series of books is going.I was unsettled at first by the loss of so many characters from the first book who I thought would be of continuing importance, and I am not sure that this book – caught up with one particular quest – moved things forward too much and that means that I have to say that I couldn’t love this book as much as I loved ‘The Game of Kings.’I’m sure that it has a purpose – I think saw seeds being sown – I think I met characters who will move forward, beyond this story- and it might be that I will appreciate it more when I see its place in the series as a whole.And I think I need to stop writing and go back to reading ….
Frustrating, absorbing and intensely emotional, I can't stop thinking about this bookLymond is back, this time in France, hanging out in disguise in the most extravagant and decadent court in 16 c Europe, trying to protect the young Mary queen of scots.
Fans of the main character may be a little disappointed with the first half of the book as Lymond is deep in disguise and not quite himself.
This is a book to read slowly, to think about, keep your focus and it will reward you.
The authentic historical detail is fantastic.The plot unravels slowly, as does the still mysterious main character, you never quite know where you are with Lymond.
I miss the characters from the first book as only a few of them were present in this one.
I also miss the dynamic of Lymond and his group of ruffians.
Whilst I still loved Lymond, he was also very different in this book.
Ill pick up the next book soon and slowly make my way through the rest of the books.
I hear that book 4 is particularly heartbreaking so I am definitely interested in seeing if it effects me in that way.
I love a good dose of heartbreak in my books.
I read this book while I was studying "court culture" at university and imagine my astonishment when I realized that the over-the-top court events that Dorothy Dunnett describes in such detail actually happened.
I literally found only one error in her description of Mary Queen of Scots' wedding which is like one-tenth of the errors I usually find in historical fiction.
If you want to know what court life was like in the 16th century and don't want to slog through letters, ambassador's notes and court records, read Dorothy Dunnett.
Queens' Play, in which young Francis Crawford of Lymond continues in a much more visible manner the dramatic self-flagellation which was mostly hidden in the first book, The Game of Kings, is a highly satisfying book. Dorothy Dunnett, through her tortured too-brilliant Lymond, leaves gilded bread crumbs for us to follow through a labyrinthine plot.Part of the fun of reading Lymond is being as amazed at his language as everyone but his mother is in the book. I do not recommend reading this for the first time with a reading guide. You should be slightly mystified by Lymond, I think.
Speaking of the Richard-Lymond dynamic (notice my choice of ASCII character): I don't know if this will continue to hold throughout the series, but Lymond's proclamation that "his world is among men" and that he loves women but will never wed himself to one gets at something, some essential truth, I think, about slash fandom.
But if it is a woman, and the readers are meant to believe that here is Lymond's soulmate and all bow down before this beautiful shining romance, I don't think I can.Female leads in this series are strong-willed, shrewd, and fierce.
Bailed on this one because I've got too many books I'd rather be reading than this one!
I was expecting to like this more than I did. But it moves right along, and Frances Crawford of Lymond is quite the fellow. 3.2 stars.
Hero worship....It's the only oozing emotion I seem able to inspire.Lymond certainly does inspire for all his many talents, his swashbuckling and his wit.
It's stated by one female character that Lymond has no capacity to love but Dunnett skillfully shows in little snatches that perhaps Lymond loves too hard.
But, throughout Lymond's dangerous mission we learn the heavy burden is not without responsibility and consequence.The French court is showcased not only through politics but arts.
Still, the many twisty plots and courtly intrigue continue to surprise but it is Lymond's complex character that remains centre stage.
It's possible Lymond may become my favourite fictional character ever.
like some dental nightmare..').
I liked this complicated story very much, but not quite as much as the first in the series, which may have been in part because I had no guide.
I wish someone would hurry up and publish one, because it was difficult, and annoying, reading along knowing I was missing clever details capable of astonishing me with their clever aptness--if only some kind soul would explain them to me.
Also, there were frequently places where I didn't understand what was going on, and if the stupid character, Robin Stewart wasn't around for Lymond to explain to, I was lost.
It's strange, for me, to read a book that I don't completely understand. I think if I immersed myself in the history of Scotland, England, and France during the reign of Henry II of France, I might just get it. As that will not happen, I'm happy to sit back and enjoy the story, even if only on a superficial level. Dunnett's word choices astound me. Her ability to write, as an individual would have spoken so long ago, is at times difficult to read, but worth it.
The joy to read a book by someone who is clever and witty. Yes, the fact that the main characters address each other often in Renaissance quotes, refer to Greek and Latin and that large passages are in untranslated French do not deter me from this book. I also have to look up words which does not happen to me normally. The books bewitch me like hardly any other. Firmly living in the 16th century now.
Great way to learn history!
With all the life in her between his two palms, he slid wide his hands and quickly lifting her, swaying, like warm wine in too tender a lapping, took and laid her on the dark bed where, crudely, she had always meant to surrender.It’s also very funny in places.Crawford, in his Irish persona, when asked if he has strong religious views: “I have strong views on nothing at all, a mhic, save women and drink, and maybe money.
Lymond is, in this book, not at his best -- very intentionally on Dunnett's part, but it leads to some of his most blundersome plans, and a narrative that I find labyrinthine in a manner that's less delightful and more confusing than Dunnett's usual.
There are still so many scenes that just wreck me: Margaret Erskine finding Lymond when he's ill, Richard's return (Richard -- Richard!
For me, this is a book full of sections that are a struggle, and sections that sing; oh hey, that's kind of like Lymond's entire life.Considering Lymond, flat now on the bed in wordless communion with the ceiling, Richard spoke.
(It only took me so long because I got side-tracked by the Booker longlist last year).I wish I'd read these when I was younger, because I think I would have adored them and Lymond.
When O'LiamRoe says that he wants to make a human place on Lymond's soul, and characters think about how he needs to learn to bear the burdens of leadership, I agreed.
If he becomes a more human character in the later books, I will be more interested.
So far I find him rather annoyingly dazzling and clever and good at everything.
He's not a pixie, but a bit manic in this book, although of course that's partly because he is playing a role.
readathon17: A book that takes place before 1800RTC
Someone is not only trying to kill Mary, but Phelim too (a case of mistaken identity) and their journey is fraught with danger.The intricateness of the puzzle that is Robin Stewart over-rides the adventures and mis-adventures that happen to Lymond, and this is not resolved until the final part of the book.As usual, there are many things happening at the same time; Lymond pulling strings to get Phelim admitted at court; unknown enemy trying to trick everyone; politics and favourites mangling lives; risk-taking, dare-devil escapades; there is so much going on we are a party to that it almost unbelievable that this description of life at the French court is NORMAL.So, scenes:The way Archie Abernethy is revealed when Mary is saved from being trampled on the bridge into Rouen.
Having swallowed two of Dunnett's in a matter of weeks, some thoughts following on my review of A Game of Kings.The world-building remains spectacular, even more so in the second book than in the first.
The intrigue and carousing are universals, of course-- that's where the plot happens.Where the first book was obviously that, shaggy and unkempt, the second shows Dunnett's growth as a plotter.
There are four more Lymond books for when I want them-- and I reckon, at some point, I will.
Seven year old Mary Queen of Scots is betrothed to the Dauphin, and the political situation appears relatively stable.
However, a series of peculiar accidents make Mary's mother, the Queen Dowager of Scotland, fear for her daughter's safety.
It will take all Lymond's ingenuity to remain undetected and yet be close enough to the inner circles of the court that he can identify and expose Mary's would-be assassin.
A spy story, a murder mystery, a psychological thriller and a fast-moving and often hilarious adventure, the tone of Queen's Play picks up where The Game of Kings left off.
It is vastly more accessible; the very dense prose, polyglot quotes and unexplained references are in the main absent; the plot is rather evident; and many of the political minutiae are carefully and thoroughly explained in expository paragraphs, occasionally an explanation from Lymond to someone else, but often in the guise of some character's internal reflection.
With the decline and fall and resurrection of Robin Stewart, what price good intentions?Although the central plot deals with investigating threats to Mary, Queen of Scots, I am intrigued by the question of Lymond's motivation - is his seemingly unshakable loyalty in the face of everyone's Machiavellian scheming to the little Queen, or to Scotland as a whole, and whatever he perceives her best interests to be?
Dunnett's attention to detail is so good that I literally read the first couple of the O'LiamRoe's titles, and thought 'hey, that must mean that he's related to my clans'; the fact that he then turned out to be the Prince of the Slieve Blooms wasn't so surprising, though it still did make me shriek with glee.
The stresses are one of the ways in which you can tell whether or not an Irish speaker is a native or not, but that's such a rare thing to pick up on.Now, of course, it's just a matter of tracking down the next volume in the series.
