https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1249080.Skill_with_People
Tapi jika Anda meluangkan waktu dan perhatian Anda secara tulus kepada orang lain, rasa cinta yang Anda dapatkan pun akan berkali-kali lipat.Sederhananya, jika Anda menyayangi sesama makhluk Tuhan, maka Tuhan dan ciptaanNya pun akan mencintai Anda.
Dan hal itu akan berlaku sebaliknya jika Anda melakukan hal yang sebaliknya.Yang kompleks sebenarnya adalah bagaimana cara mengekspresikan perasaan tulus kita dengan layak dan sesuai pada tempatnya.
Bagaimanapun, apa pun yang Anda lakukan untuk bertahan hidup, jangan pernah sampai merampas kehidupan orang lain.
Buku yang sangat direkomendasikan untuk mereka yang ingin mengubah dirinya secara total, agar menjadi pribadi yang lebih tulus dan menyenangkan.
I enjoyed this book, but have one criticism. My criticism lies in the part about giving criticism. In the book, it spells out a certain method of how to critique people, with always giving praise first. This needs to be touched on a lot more than a simple method. People catch on to methods, and when they sense a certain type of praise, then they know the criticism is going to follow, making the praise mean nothing.
I found this book a tremendous followup to reading Carnegie's How to win friends and influence people.
As stated in the other reviews, this great little guide offers the universal principles of communicating with people.Carnegie's differs in that it answers the fundamental question: Why should I improve my skills with people?
Why bother?
He does this with umpteen stories threaded throughout the book.
The reader is left in no doubt as to the value of its contents.After reading Carnegie, Skill With People is an incredible, compact aide that can be left lying everywhere.
I started reading PMA and self-help books only after reading this book.I was in my 9th grade and I was given this 30 pages book.
I thought it is a piece of cake to read just 30 pages.
I started the book.
I believe the book is so compact and to the point that every word on every page matters.
That's why Mr. Giblin has also highlighted some of the words by capitalizing them.Awesome book if you want to have a good impression in front of others, make friends and influence people.
Best book I have read so far on building and keeping relations.
It's a how to and abbreviated form of how to win friends and influence people. It's great because it's brief and to the point.
Buku Skill with People membahas tentang hubungan antar individu. Penulisnya, Les Giblin, mengungkap tentang bagaimana berhubungan dengan orang lain dan mengusulkan beberapa pedoman untuk kesuksesan karir, keluarga dan kehidupan sosial. Les giblin memulai pembahasan awal dengan beberapa prosentase pemahaman manusia. Berikut ini salah satunya: Prosentase Bagaimana kita belajar (dan membeli) :83 % dengan Penglihatan11 % dengan Pendengaran3  % dengan Penciuman1  % dengan Sentuhan1 % dengan RasaSelai
Berikut ini salah satunya: Prosentase Bagaimana kita belajar (dan membeli) :83 % dengan Penglihatan11 % dengan Pendengaran3 ½ % dengan Penciuman1 ½ % dengan Sentuhan1 % dengan RasaSelain itu, dia memberitahukan trik-trik bagaimana kita harus menggunakan kata-kata “ANDA” dengan benar dalam percakapan kita untuk memperoleh suatu percakapan yang lancar dan hubungan yang baik, bagaimana seseorang begitu menyukai dirinya sendiri sehingga kita perlu memberikan perhatian khusus padanya, dan masih banyak lagi tips-tips khusus yang dia kemukakan.Buku yang singkat, tipis dan sederhana ini berisi beberapa tips yang sederhana pula, tidak mendalam, tidak terfokus, namun bersifat general.
I find Mr. Giblins tips in how to gain skill with people to be very basic and just slightly naïve. But then I also find them very self-explanatory, so maybe I already possess massive skills with people, and that's why this book didn't impress me much. ;) That being said, I can name several people around me who in my mind would gain from learning a few things from Mr. Giblin.
I read this book at least once a week. Since it is a primer of sorts on interacting with people the more often I review it the better I'm getting in having smoother social interactions. It's helped me not have as much "dead" space in conversations. I may not be the most entertaining person but at least I've learned how to maintain a conversation.
Being an introvert, I always have trouble to talk to people. Dont know how to start a conversation or keep a conversation going. This has caused lots of problems for me. Although it is a small book, Skill with People definitely opened my mind. I wish I had read this book 15 years ago. I will come back to read this book again and again.
It's the best book to read. A good guidance for better deal with people with big ego. I'd prefer the first edition of this book but I found it no where else. The revised edition is too short. Details not really shown on this book, but still I like the theme he keeps on his write. My cousin got his success in his carrier by reading this book.
I guess most of the contents have the similiarity with Dale Carnegie's How to win friends and influence people! But this one is the handy version of it, that u can enjoy reading it while standing inside the bus!
Everyone should read this book.., a few times.
A must read book! It will help you to improve your relationship with others. Very simple, but wonderful
Very short informational.
Length is good for reading on commute, lunch, or even home.
Gets the information to you in an organized, fast and effective way.The book overwhelmingly has a selling/sales feel that can apply in other places in life.
I can't say I agree with every point and sub-point, such as on being agreeable (oh, the irony), but the majority of it is exceptionally helpful at further refining you techniques interacting with others.
Again, this especially true if you are in sales.Originally printed in 1968, I am surprised this book isn't more popular as the info is relevant and can be applied in the modern day.
Great little book with powerful techniques and reasoning on why and how to apply them. It can take a person some time to master them, but it will be well worth out! I wish I would have discovered it years ago. It's a game changer for me and I believe it for you. It's a must read in this day and age of social media and anti social culture. Go out and get it and read it!
Quick Read, Practical & Useful!This was great information and every concept had practical applications connected to it. I loved how concise it was and plan to re-read often. 10 out of 10 recommend!
People's skills worth reading. It's a very nice book, which gives you some insights of people's skills which you can really create real impact in your life if you use it on daily basis and make a habit of it.
This book fulfills its promises. It says the facts directly without beating about the bushes
Amazing! Wonderful! Will read this every month!
Good and short. Most of the content is rehashed from How to win friends and influence people.
How to Win Friends and Win People condensed into 40 pages
Handbook for understanding people and Human nature.
Kind, smart, easy to follow advices.I wish I read it long time ago. I am glad I did now. I highly recommend it to anyone interested in improving social skills.
Excellent
Really simple things that we all know, but are surprisingly hard to practice consistently.
Practical guide on building relationships and communicating with people. In pithy, outline format.
Really Good!!This book is really good and helpful in dealing successfully with others. No matter your line of work out business, this book can be of major help.
A good short read with valuable and practical suggestions to improve day to day with people.
SpectacularLes has the gift of simply stating complex facts and physiology anyone can understand. Great addiction to any library. Will read it over and over...Thank you Les....
Short but sweet. Good nuggets for communicating with others.
