https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31182.The_Tin_Can_Tree
While reading her other books (I have not gotten through all of them yet - not even all of hers that I own) I find myself wondering "why did you write this?" I cannot help but be curious about her motivations.
She seems to understand things that she could not possibly have experienced - at least not all of them, though I imagine perhaps some.
You get to the end and you think, "well not much happened in that story, everyone just sat around talking...." and then you go on to wonder how on earth her method works.
I decided to give Anne Tyler a try because I wasn't sure if I had read any of her work.Maybe this wasn't the best introduction to her writing. The story didn't resonate with me.I will give her writing another chance though.
No no ho abbandonato la lettura di questo libro , pieno di discorsi forzati ed insulsi tra i protagonisti. Mi aspettavo più introspezione e sicuramente più analisi della personalità dei personaggi, invece nulla . Lascio perdere , il mio tempo è prezioso e non voglio perdere tempo con un libro poco appetibile .
I really do like Anne Tyler's books.
Her books (there are quite a few) are not so much plots, as in moving along story lines, as they are character studies.
When you carefully read her words, you feel like you know these people.
Very often her characters are sad, melancholy people doing ordinary, unexciting things, dealing with loss or disappointment.
So the story is really about how her family, and the families in the other units, deal with her death.
Maybe it's Tyler's style of writing I really like, or maybe it's because she really gets to the heart of people's actions, even if they are sad.
I like Tyler's books.
Il punto di forza dei romanzi di Anne Tyler non è mai la trama.
E questo non fa eccezione: non succede praticamente niente.
L'autrice racconta di come i vari personaggi interagiscono fra loro, affrontando la realtà e riprendosi dopo la morte della piccola Janie Rose, di soli sei anni.
Tutto qui.Ma lo fa in un modo talmente delicato e "umano" che non si può non sentirsi vicini a questi personaggi così teneri, realistici e buffi nella loro quotidianità, nel loro imbarazzo, con le loro piccole manie e debolezze.Non è un brutto romanzo, ma nemmeno uno di quelli che mi sono piaciuti di più di quest'autrice, così brava a raccontare il nulla.
Another GR reviewer commented re this book that everything he thought was going to happen didn't.
It's like reading mystery, only the mystery is life itself.
In The Tin Can Tree, as one family tries to heal from the death of one of their children, a neighbor lives under the burden of caring for his physically and mentally disabled brother, while he's in love with a woman who wants a life with him.
The small town/rural North Carolina ambiance is a treasure, as, to my mind, is this slice-of-life view into the characters' lives.
Faulkner came to mind as I read this novel.
"Bravest thing about people, Miss Joan, is how they go on loving mortal beings after finding out there's such a thing as dying."
3.5*
Most interesting to me is the young Simon, who has just lost his little sister in a farming accident and wants to run away from home because his grieving mother is paying little attention to him.
What makes Tyler interesting in all of her novels is that nearly all of her characters also have a very deeply felt point of view about life.
The lyrics "we got to get out while we're young" come to mind as Joan settles back and realizes she's not going anywhere.I've often felt that a network like HBO could serve itself well by buying the rights to all of Ms. Tyler's books and giving them the wider audience that they deserve in the most unabashed way.
This was a strong early novel for Anne Tyler.
It moved verrrry slowly, and the resolution kind of went over my head or was tacked on and artificial.
However, the characters were interesting, and the story kept me engaged.I have real problems with the character of Ansel -- was he chronically ill?
I don't really know, but as a chronically ill person, I was saddened to see yet another character who could have been a "gypsy-in-the-parlor" (a manipulative con man/woman who feigns illness to his/her own advantage).
Tyler's humanity and fondness for each of her characters comes through -- even in this early work.
The novel depicts how several people deal with their personal grief, and with each other, but particularly, the ten-year-old brother, Simon Pike, and his parents.All the central characters live in an old, three-family house.
Tyler is a master of depicting the details of how people interact; wonderful descriptions of their movements, and thoughts, as well as descriptions of the landscape, the wind, the house, the tree hung with tin cans that Janie Rose decorated.People struggle mightily in getting past their grief but, in the end, they find what is still important in their lives and come together.I am amazed that Anne Tyler was just 22 years old when she wrote this book in 1965.
This is a quick, enjoyable read and shows flashes of the genius that Anne Tyler later developed. She really captures the feel of the place and the cadence of people's lives and language. The characters didn't come as alive for me as in most of her later books, and I think that is because she tried too hard to explain them here, instead of just letting them be.
I liked this book. I miss the usual quirky character Anne Tyler usually has though as in the Accidental tourist and If morning ever comes and Dinner at the Homesick Restaurant.This is a lovely story though of a family and how they deal with the loss of a child and the 2 sets of neighbors that live in their triplex.
In her second book , Anne Tyler again squeezes out emotional power from her characters."Bravest thing about people, Miss Joan, is how they go on loving mortal beings after finding out there's such a thing as dying.”
Definitely not one of her better books. Simon and Janie are the only likeable characters. The rest of them are all so dull, depressing and frustrating that by the end I felt they were all getting what they deserved by being stuck with one another.
Not her best. Disappointing...
Typical Tyler...I came away uplifted by the ordinary...
I love Anne Tyler books but I just couldn't enjoy this one
IT was pretty boring to me
This was read in my great Read-Everything-Anne-Tyler-Ever-Wrote quest.
Where her first effort couldn't seem to decide if it was going to be plot-driven or character-driven, The Tin Can Tree sits comfortably in the second category.
Already the reader can see hints of what is to come in this author's lengthy career.
Published in 1964, it is, unsurprisingly, a bit dated (like her first effort), but in this case the simplicity of that time is so obvious now, over 50 years later, that one rather enjoys it.
Or at least this southern reader did.One interesting question concerns the title.
FIRST LINE REVIEW: "After the funeral James came straight home, to look after his brother." This is Anne Tyler's second novel and so far the weakest of hers that I've read.
She's admitted as much herself.
But I was still charmed by the characters she created, painting a picture of how they all deal with the loss of a child.
It does lack, however, the wonderful quirkiness and comic brightness of her other works, so I'm filing this one away as a "mercy read," done in order to check off another book on the long list from one of my favorite authors.
I read that Anne Tyler wanted to disown this book later on in her career. I wouldn’t go that far but I can see why she might think that. Whilst it is still a good read, totally character driven as always, it is not quite on the same level as her later work. Also it seems weird to read an Anne Tyler book that isn’t set in Baltimore!
A sad little book about a family who loses their daughter to an accident. Only mentioned the tin can tree once. Not sure why it was the title. It held my interest and kept me reading. I think I kept wanting more to happen. At least the ending turned happy.
Eén van de eerste romans van Anne Tyler: een schets van het familieleven op de buiten in het zuiden.Je voelt al wel haar talent om personages te schetsen met subtiel gesuggereerde verborgen emoties, innig mooie momentjes, maar soms ook wat te veel bla bla naast de kwestie.
A bit slow going. Strong characters.
I typically like this author, but this book was extremely boring ....
It was fun to read one of Anne Tyler's earliest (her second) book with its quirky characters and situations and to reflect on how her writing has evolved over the years.
Way too slow. And unsatisfying. Tyler doesn't give much background to the child's death that is the center of the story.
I might have to read the novel again to see what I had missed while reading it the first time.The overall plot was about characters reacting after the death of Janie Rose Pike, a six year old (who appeared to be "special") that died from a tractor accident.
There's the Pikes: Lou (mother), Simon (10 year old brother), James (the father), and Joan (the niece).
He also loves Joan, but can't express it whatsoever to her, and is almost like a "big brother" to Simon.Overall, it was a pleasure to read.
