https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6839093-chew-vol-1
nom nom nom!!why on earth did it take me so long to make my way over to this series? plenty of people were telling me to - kat stark straight-up recommended it to me with her words, and there were the passive recommendations in the form of glowing reviews from people like anne and jeff and that big bear melki! (who has read 450 books this year and that's just crazy. you have to trust a bear that reads more books than there are days in which to read them.) and then there was a crossover event be
you have to trust a bear that reads more books than there are days in which to read them.) and then there was a crossover event between this and my beloved revival series… the point is - sometimes you gotta stick a horse's face in the water before she figures out how to drink.
i've bought the next two volumes already, and i cannot wait to dive in.for those of you who haven't read this, all you need to know is that tony chu is an fda agent in a world where fda agents get the opportunity to be more badass than they do in our world.
This book was so much fun!! Winner, Winner, Chicken Dinner. Wait, you can't have chicken dinner. Because the bird flu hit three years ago and now chicken is outlawed. Tony Chu is a detective that happens to be a Cibopathic. He can get phychic readings from whatever he eats. He gets brought into the FDA special crimes units for his unique abilitles and is teamed with a fellow cibopathic. Now this gets completely gross at times. Blood, cannibalism, craziness abounds. Buckle your seat-belts and don
This book was so much fun!! Winner, Winner, Chicken Dinner.
  Wait, you can't have chicken dinner. Because the bird flu hit three years ago and now chicken is outlawed. Tony Chu is a detective that happens to be a Cibopathic. He can get phychic readings from whatever he eats.
  He gets brought into the FDA special crimes units for his unique abilitles and is teamed with a fellow cibopathic. Now this gets completely gross at times. Blood, cannibalism, craziness abounds. Buckle your seat-belts and don't plan on eating while reading this one.
Nutritive but overcooked This is a TPB edition collecting the first 5 issues of the comic book title “Chew”.Creative Team:Writer & Lettering: John LaymanIllustrator & Colors: Rob Guillory HORS-D’OUEUVRE Chew is an indy comic book title focused on the character of Tony Chu, a former cop and now an US Government of the FDA (Food and Drug Administration). Tony Chu has a very special skill, he is a cibopathic, which means that he can perceive images and getting info from anything edible tha
Now that I already read the whole first arc, I have a better picture of the comic book title.I still think that Chew is a very creative work with a vision of originality like few current comic book titles in the market have.BUT, I found several negative elements during the reading experience with this first TPB...Why only chicken is prohibited by Federal law?: I found that odd and kinda pointless.
The creative team already had a tremendous title, full of creativity, only to overfill it with mundane elements.Spoiling fifth cover: While this is a TPB collected edition, you have the arts of the original covers of each comic book issue in the arc.
re-read in December 2017SUCH A WEIRD, GREAT TIME. I’m excited to finally continue reading this series!Really fun and different from what I was expecting. I would not recommend reading this while eating food....
OH…GREAT MAKER OF SWEET, SUCCULENT, GOOEY, GOODNESS, just when I thought that all of the inventive and interesting psychic powers had been used up and tossed away like my faith in the economy, the tasty brilliance of John Layman shines like a heat lamp in fast food burger joint bringing me… In the future, after a “mysterious” and catastrophic epidemic of bird flu has killed 23 million Americans, all bird and “hoof” meat has been outlawed by the Farmland Security Amendment to the U.S. Constituti
OH…GREAT MAKER OF SWEET, SUCCULENT, GOOEY, GOODNESS, just when I thought that all of the inventive and interesting psychic powers had been used up and tossed away like my faith in the economy, the tasty brilliance of John Layman shines like a heat lamp in fast food burger joint bringing me…
The power is not something Tony can turn on and off (it is always on) and so he is unable to eat most foods as the experience is simply too traumatic for him.
Oh, and if you thought Tony’s cibopathy was the only food-related power in this tasty series, you would be wrong.
Tony is infatuated with Amelia because her ability allows him to experience foods without the side effects of his own power.
Detective Tony Chu is a cibopath, meaning he gets psychic information from everything he eats.
But his new partner, Mason Savoy, is more than he seems...I've had my eye on Chew for years and finally bit when the first volume went on sale for six bucks.
It was well worth it.As somebody who thinks about food quite a bit, the core idea behind Chew intrigued me.
Tony Chu finds himself in hot water when he's caught biting a dead suspect's face to learn the names of his victims.
Oh, and fuck Applebee, Chu's boss.John Layman's writing plays things surprisingly straight for the most part, even though some ridiculous shit happens.

Once I think it it may be tainted, it's got to go.It's Mentally Tainted Food, therefore, I can't eat it.Also, I thought Chew was just a clever title.
Har!) is one of the guys who puts his life on the line everyday to keep the world safe from contraband chicken.His partner ends up getting hit in the head with a meat cleaver in the first few pages, and to catch the bad guy...Tony eats a portion of one of his minions.Don't worry, it makes more sense in the book.When he's found at the scene cannibalizing the guy who split his partner's skull open, he gets fired and institutionalized.

Of course, it doesn't make mealtimes much fun.Mirror inverse of Chu's ability is a reporter who can describe food in such detail that her readers can actually taste it.
Both characters' abilities are increasingly fraught in a future where the FDA has more power than the FBI or police and black-market chicken is a major criminal concern.
Maybe this is just me, but if chicken were outlawed I would just eat something else.
If you think chicken is the best food ever and would risk potential death and jail time, please respond below.I also wasn't sold on the reporter's ability.
Something new for me.I really enjoy crime novels, so I was expecting to really like this.
Imagine not being able to eat anything except for beets for the rest of your life, unless you want gruesome images inside your mind.
I haven't read anything like it before so I'm expecting a lot more improvement in the next volume.
What I want to see more though would be the cibopathic ability of Chu and more crime scenes.
Too much character development, but I can't complain much though considering this is the first volume.What I liked best about this would be the artwork.
This graphic novel is really, really good!The story and the artwork are unique.
The content has a nice combination of humor, gore, and grossness.
I was drawn in immediately and look forward to the next volume.
The story has a lot similar with the iZombie series.
Not the artwork, but the story reminded me of it.
So if you are a fan of either series, and haven't tried the other, you probably should.
A great thing about enjoying this so much is that I didn't know anything about it.
I just randomly picked it up from my digital library for no reason in particular.
I was really looking forward to Chew!
I mean, there is vomit, boogers, cannibalism, bikini-clad Russian assassins, gore – what’s not to like?
Heck, the thing even won two Eisner and two Harvey Awards!
This should be fun!!
Well, it did not take long for my enthusiasm to wane.
The characters, constantly concerned with being edgy and hilarious, never came to life for me, and what is trumpeted on the back cover as “biting political satire” turned out to be little more than the usual dose of self-congratulatory cynicism.
Underneath all the hullabaloo, Chew is every bit as bland and silly, often obtrusive and dull, as your typical sitcom.
Despite its snappy title and acrimonious gore, it has no bite.
LOVED THIS!!!! HIGHLY HIGHLY HIGHLY RECOMMEND!
Gross but so good.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/It seems everyone but me is reading comic books these days. I'm even raising a tiny Sheldon Cooper with ginormous boxes full of nearly any superhero my heart could possibly desire and yet I still hesitate when it comes to that genre. Why???? I think it's because of my own personal superhero complex. You see, in my house it goes a little something like this . . .  When I saw Chew hope was restored that I too could learn to love the grap
When I saw Chew hope was restored that I too could learn to love the graphic novel.Tony Chu lives in a world quite different from ours.
After the bird flu struck the country bigtime, people were left with little choice when it came to chicken dinners .
Naaaaah.)The lack of chicken never bothered Tony, though, being as he is cibopathic - a person who receives the life history of anything he eats.
ALL HAIL JEFF GOLDBLUM!)The general populous doesn't share Tony's issue, however, and chicken has become a hot commodity on the black market so restaurants are willing to do almost anything to get it.
What if a bird flu pandemic wiped out a good part of the population and led to all poultry products being banned? Then the FDA investigators would suddenly become more important as people still tried to get their chicken fixes from somewhere. Enter investigator Tony Chu, who also happens to be a Cibopath meaning that when he eats things he gets memories off of the former living thing (he can do it off living things, too). He and his mentor are but a handful of such people in the world. What see
Enter investigator Tony Chu, who also happens to be a Cibopath meaning that when he eats things he gets memories off of the former living thing (he can do it off living things, too).
Along the way he falls in love with a food journalist who has a special power of her own in making people feel the taste of eating good (and bad) food.
There's a nice scene in the middle in which Tony's love interest uses her special powers to make some armed terrorists puke up their previous meal.
Everyday, when late afternoon rolls around, my son asks me the inevitable question, "What's for dinner?"If my answer is, "Chicken!", you can be sure it will be met by groans and hisses.
My sense of humor is rather black and crumbly (like my soul!), and I enjoyed the heck outta this sucker.Plus, I can't help loving a book that includes the line, "Evan Pepper came to you because he was threatened by a Yakuza chicken smuggling operation!" I mean, you just don't hear that one everyday...
Meet Tony Chu- he’s a Cibopath.What’s a Cibopath you ask?
Well, he eats things and gets an impression from whatever he eats.
Agent Chu is a little on the hot-headed side of things and luckily has a huge partner to help him slow his role.Meet Agent Savoy, a fellow Cibopath.
He’s pretty bad ass especially when it comes to rescuing his partner.I just love Tony Chu. He’s an underdog.
He makes bold moves that sometimes help boost his career; sometimes he gets himself into tricky situations.
But, he uses my favorite word a few times and helped bond me to him.
4.5 stars
Probably not, but nothing can stem the tide of my glowing praise for such an original story concept delivered with this much dynamic flair, humorous overtones and an underbelly of noir nastiness.
No disrespect meant to all you vegetarians out there, but I love me some chicken, okay?
In Tony Chu's world, an avian flu has killed millions of people across the globe.
Was there ever really an avian flu pandemic?
Cibopath Tony Chu is on the case with his unique talent.
I love that I have no idea where this story is heading next.
I've been reading a ton of comics lately, and Chew is the one that REALLY made me want to keep up with the series on an issue by issue basis. It's so clever and sublime and the sense of humor is right up my alley. I love the wacky cannibal world and the non-sterotypical lead. Definitely a Must Read for me!
İğrençti. Bayıldım.
Tony Chu has a very special ability: when he eats something he understands the complete history of whatever he just ate: for example in case of an apple it is which fertilizer was used on the tree, the condition under which it was picked up, etc.
Tony is recruited into FDA for his special abilities where he investigates several cases in the book.I am sorry, but the jokes in the books are not my type.
I really did not care about any of the characters at all; none of them stood up above being 2-dimensional cartoons with exactly zero development.Another nitpick: during one of the investigations Tony has to talk to some Russians.
The gross factor comes in the unconventional things Tony ends up having to eat.
I was surprised with just how imaginative this book was, and how little it leaned on the potentially disgusting possibilities of the premise.
And besides, the idea of cibopathy is pretty cool, and it isn't a major intuitive leap.
And then there's the idea of terroir, that the land a food grew on affects the taste.
Like I said, not a major leap, but it is an interesting one.
You really have to suspend disbelief that chickens would ever be prohibited as food at all, and that there would be an enormous, thriving chicken black market.
I EAT DEAD PEOPLE!Yep - Tony Chu is Cibopathic.
If the person you want to interrogate happens to be dead - no problem - just chow down on some long pork and let the good times roll down memory lane of whoever you're ingesting.
Oh, the person being dead is totally optional.With talent like that Chu doesn't stay a cop for long.
The FDA are the new Homeland Security this book.
So if you have a hankering for chicken, you have to make do with a foul alternative (Oh I'm on fire tonight)!What this also means is that chicken is the new contraband.
And he doesn't really enjoy it.I actually really liked this graphic novel.
At first, I didn't think I'd like it that much because it's just not my usual genre, but I ended up completely hooked from start to finish.
The unique art, storylines and characters all worked really well together to create lots of suspense and action.
One big downside was the sheer nastiness of the whole story concept and its vivid art details, but once I move past that, I'm sure I'll like it more and more...I recommend Chew to any and all graphic novel lovers who don't mind some very gruesome images.
Hahaha!
This is the funniest comic series I have read to date and I think that Volume 1: Taster's Choice is just an appetizer.
After reading this volume which collects the first five issues of the series, I am craving for more Chew.Meet Tony Chew, a Cibopathic detective who gets psychic impressions from whatever he eats.
Please, get over your squeamish self and read this.Taster's choice is a fitting first arc of a story.
With exposition limited to hilarious one page introductions and prologues, John Layman lets them characters play unrestrained for the rest of the story.
Not gonna lie, this was pretty cool. Can't wait to get my hands on the next issue!
