https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/63114.Poems_of_Fernando_Pessoa
Without madness what is man But a wholesome beast, Postponed corpse that begets?عظيم بيسوابكل ما يكتببكل حرف سطره في لا طمأنينة الوجودبكل لغة تُرجم إليهابكل اسم تخفى وراءهوبكل صوت تحدث على لسانهعظيم بجنونهوبعبقريتهوبتفردهوبألقهوبقيمته في نفوس معجبيهعظيم بكل شهقة انبهار صعدت من فم احدنانحن المغتربين في هذه الدنيانحن المخلدين في أرق القلقنخن المغموسين في شهد العزلةبيسوا كلماته هي سفرناوملاذناوهويتنابيسوا هو ذلك الذي جاء ليعبر عنا أخيرا... I don’t know how many souls I have. I’ve changed at every m
Without madness what is man But a wholesome beast, Postponed corpse that begets?‎عظيم بيسوابكل ما يكتببكل حرف سطره في لا طمأنينة الوجودبكل لغة تُرجم إليهابكل اسم تخفى وراءهوبكل صوت تحدث على لسانهعظيم بجنونهوبعبقريتهوبتفردهوبألقهوبقيمته في نفوس معجبيهعظيم بكل شهقة انبهار صعدت من فم احدنانحن المغتربين في هذه الدنيانحن المخلدين في أرق القلقنخن المغموسين في شهد العزلةبيسوا كلماته هي سفرناوملاذناوهويتنابيسوا هو ذلك الذي جاء ليعبر عنا أخيرا‏...‏‎ ‎I don’t know how many souls I have.
A man who has soul has no calm.
A man who feels is not who he is.‎***To be great, be whole; Exclude nothing, exaggerate nothing that is not you.
"The poet is a forger who forges so completely that he forges even the feeling he feels truly as pain."He was a thousand different persons in one, always using several literary heteronyms, and with his endless thirst to experience, he pushed his mind to the limit, questioned everything relentlessly to the point of exhaustion and then was pulled down inexorably towards the abyss of his disturbing thoughts; leaving this huge legacy, leaving his poems, on the way."I don't know how many souls I have...
Fernando Pessoa deu-lhe vida em Lisboa, mas levou-o a viver no sossego do Ribatejo trazendo-o de volta à capital para morrer tuberculoso ainda muito novo.Foi assim, simples e sem sobressaltos a vida do " meu Pessoa" favorito; poeta da natureza, da objetividade, das sensações.A sua poesia fala por si, na linguagem simples e ingénua de quem só fez a 4classe, é um louvor aos sentidos, à alegria de viver contemplando a realidade, sem pensar e sem necessidade de explicações. Apela a uma vida sem dor,

I cannot praise Pessoa enough.
The man was a poetic genius who created numerous heteronymns to write under, each with his own story and writing style.
Perhaps the most amazing thing is how emotionally invested we become, like Pessoa is a dear friend of ours and we only want the best for him.
In a world of superficiality, Pessoa was real...
HeFakes it so completely,He even fakes he's sufferingThe pain he's really feeling.And they who read his writingFully feel while readingNot that pain of his that's double,But theirs, completely fictional.So on its tracks goes round and round,To entertain the reason,That wound-up little trainWe call the heart of man.
Μέσα από 35 μικρής έκτασης ποιήματα μπορεί κανείς να αντιληφθεί την πρωτοποριακή - πολλές φορές ίσως και επαναστατική - σκέψη του Fernando Pessoa σε σχέση με την εποχή του.
Ένας από τους σημαντικότερους στοχαστές της εποχής του, μεταφέρει και αποτυπώνει την περιπλοκότητα του χαρακτήρα του στο χαρτί με εξαιρετική μαεστρία.
Ωστόσο παραμένει ένα εύκολο και ευχάριστο ανάγνωσμα.Πολύ θετικό στοιχείο της συγκεκριμένης έκδοσης θεωρώ την παράθεση των μεταφρασμένων στίχων σε παραλληλία με το αυθεντικό κείμενο.
Ακόμη κι αν δε γνωρίζει κάποιος τη γλώσσα, διευκολύνεται η άμεση κατανόηση της μελωδικότητας και του ρυθμού του κειμένου, θεμελιώδη στοιχεία της ποιητικής έκφρασης.
The poet is a faker Who's so good at his act He even fakes the pain Of pain he feels in fact.
Fernando Pessoa is all humanity compressed in one soul.
Pessoa is torn into many personalities, because he has too much to say and because he can’t say anything.
Words are smoke, love a delusion, existence a sham, truth a perception, idea a dream and the only reality is; ‘Nothingness’.
The only truth is the ineffability of emotions.
What we areCannot be transfused into word or book.Our soul from us is infinitely far.However much we give our thoughts the willTo be our soul and gesture it abroad,Our hearts are incommunicable still.In what we show ourselves we are ignored.The abyss from soul to soul cannot be bridgedBy any skill of thought or trick of seeming.Unto our very selves we are abridgedWhen we would utter to our thought our being.We are our dreams of ourselves, souls by gleams,And each to each other dreams of others' dreams.”
"Não sou nada.Nunca serei nada.Não posso querer ser nada.À parte isso, tenho em mim todos os sonhos do mundo."Stanza of Alvaro de Campos - Fernando Pessoa"Segue o teu destino,Rega as tuas plantas,Ama as tuas rosas.O resto é a sombraDe árvores alheias."Fernando PessoaO que é que me tortura?... Se até a tua face calma Só me enche de tédios e de ópios de ócios medonhos... Não sei...Eu sou um doido que estranha a sua própria alma... Eu fui amado em efígie num país para além dos sonhos...(Fernando Pessoa)
Caeiro é o poeta contemplativo, o poeta "do olhar nítido como um girassol", o poeta que vê, da sua aldeia "tudo quanto se pode ver no Universo", o poeta que não se importa com as rimas, que sonha com a sua vida como "um carro de bois", que almeja ser "o pó da estrada", que se contenta com o misticismo e que exige que, se um dia lhe quiserem oferecer, em lápide própria, uma biografia, nela gravem, apenas e unicamente, a data de nascença e a da morte, porque todos os restantes dias, aqueles que ocorreram entre uma data e outra, lhe pertencem exclusivamente a si.
Caeiro é, portanto, o heterónimo das metafísicas e da simplicidade, dos carros de bois e dos girassóis, do misticismo e da aldeia.
Não digas nadaNão digas nada! Nem mesmo a verdade Há tanta suavidade em nada se dizerE tudo se entender — Tudo metade De sentir e de ver... Não digas nada Deixa esquecer Talvez que amanhã Em outra paisagem Digas que foi vã Toda essa viagem Até onde quis Ser quem me agrada... Mas ali fui feliz Não digas nada.
Uma preciosa antologia de poemas de Fernando Pessoa e dos seus principais heterónimos Alberto Caeiro, Ricardo Reis e Álvaro de Campos.
Защото живее нависоко.***Ти, мистико, виждаш значение във всяко нещо.За теб всичко има забулен смисъл.Има нещо скрито във всяко нещо, което виждаш.Каквото виждаш винаги го виждаш за да видиш друго нещо.Пък аз, нали имам очи само за да виждам,Виждам липса на значение във всичките неща;Виждам го и се обичам, понеже да си нещо не означава нищо.Да си нещо е да не подлежиш на изтълкуване.***Ужасяващата действителност на нещатаЕ всекидневното мое откритие.Всяко нещо е каквото еИ трудно е някому да обясня колко много радва ме товаИ колко то ми стига.Достатъчно е да съществуваш, за да си всецялостен.(...)Понякога стоя и гледам някой камък.Не мисля дали той чувства.(...)Харесвам го, защото не чувства нищо,Харесвам го, защото няма родство с мен.Друг път слушам да минава вятърътИ смятам, че само за да чувам как минава вятърът струва си, че съм роден.***Смея се като поток, звучащ сред камъни.***Птицата минава и забравя; така и трябва да е.(...)Споменът предателство е към природата,Защото вчерашна природа не е природа,Каквото е било е нищо, спомняш ли си, ти не виждаш.Минавай, птицо, минавай и ме научи да мина.***Такава е човешката дейност в света.Нищо не отнемаме, нищо не добавяме; минаваме-забравяме;А всеки ден слънцето е точно.***Нощ е.
After reading the at-times bleak Book of Disquiet by Pessoa, I was not expecting such a playful sense of humor, most evident in the two long poems, "Maritime Ode" (a spoof on the wonders of the pirate life) and "Salutation to Walt Whitman" (a tongue-in-cheek salute to our--though not his--national poet).
Under his own name, Pessoa wrote a lot of interesting works but also a long stretch of poems dedicated to Portugal's maritime history and sea explorers in general.

"Todas las cartas de amor son/ ridículas./ No serían cartas de amor si no fuesen/ ridículas.Pero, al fin y al cabo,/ sólo las criaturas que nunca escribieron/ cartas de amor/ son las ridículas."Pero que personaje es Pessoa en su obra, increíbles poemas.
Never been this captived with poetry since Baudelaire. Pessoa was a great writer without a hint of a doubt.
Comprei este livro em Janeiro do ano passado e foi assim que o fui lendo, julgava até já ter devorado todos os poemas contidos neste pequeno livro.
Procuro despir-me do que aprendi, Procuro esquecer-me do modo de lembrar que me ensinaram, E raspar a tinta com que me pintaram os sentidos, Desencaixotar as minhas emoções verdadeiras, Desembrulhar-me e ser eu, não Alberto Caeiro, Mas um animal humano que a Natureza produziu.
E assim escrevo, ora bem ora mal, Ora acertando com o que quero dizer ora errando, Caindo aqui, levantando-me acolá, Mas indo sempre no meu caminho como um cego teimoso.Ainda assim, sou alguém.
Tai kol kas geriausia šiais, 2011 metais skaityta lietuvių kalba knyga. Nepaprastas minties gilumo ir išraiškos lakoniškumo bei paprastumo derinys. Pasirašinėjo savo kūrinius keliomis pavardėmis, teigdamas, kad tai visiškai skirtingi asmenys jam diktavo tuos eilėraščius. Šiam jo fenomenui Finn Skårderud knygoje "Nerimas" paskyrė visą skyrių. Labai vykęs vertimas, lenkiuosi Nijolei Simonai Pukinskaitei.Rekomenduoju susirasti Pessoa knygą knygyne, atsiversti bet kur ir paskaityti. Kas žino, gal ir Jus ji užkabins.
Why "the book of disquiet" isn't proposed in the list?
This work is undoubtedly one of most important the XX century.
Pessoa chooses the pseudonyms behind which it hides.It is a game of hide-and-seek to protect himself.
But its truth is in its poetries.
He loves Lisboa, the Tagus.I spend some times in this city to research him.
I drunk old porto at Basiliera coffee.
I took the tram to cross the oldest part of rhe town I saw the ruins of the earthquake which shocked Voltaire so much.
I hope to meet him in the street.
"The poet is a faker who's so good at his act he even fakes the pain of pain he feels in fact."Do yourselves a favor and read the unforgettable poems of the century's least acknowledged but greatest poet.
pessoa تعني " شخص " في البرتغاليّة، و قد تحدّرت من لفظة persona قناع الممثلين الرومانيين. إنه إذن قناع شخصيّة خالية، لا أحد!بالإمكان اختزال حياة پيسوا في العبور بين لا واقعيّة حياته اليومية و واقعيّة تخيّلاته. إنّ پيسوا، مثل معلم إحدى سونيتاته الهرطقيِّة، يعلمُ و يصمت!
No estoy segura de tener esta edición del libro, pero sí estoy segura de que este señor es un genio.
Hacer un poema requiere tanto de uno mismo, no sólo pensamiento, ni tiempo, ni alma.
Un poema requiere cada inhalación y exhalación del poeta, cada suspiro y cada pestañeo.
Si hacer un poema requiere tanto, ni siquiera puedo imaginar la dificultad de hacer una variedad de poemas con diferentes heterónimos.
Genio Pessoa, logró dividirse a sí mismo en diversos heterónimos, todos paganos, pero cada uno con diferentes personalidades.
Overall I liked it, most of them didn't get my attention. I liked especially the ones about death, they were amazing.
Algunos poemas son tremendamente realistas, mientras otros son emocionales; así se logra observar un poco la contradicción en la que se encuentra el autor entre la razón y las emociones. Entre los heterónimos, mis poemas favoritos son de Alberto Caeiro, no obstante 'Tabaquería' y otros poemas que no llevan nombre de Álvaro de Campos también me gustaron. Terminé el libro con esa sensación de querer leer más del autor para disfrutarlo, pero también para conocerlo un poco más.
No, I don't, nor in anything,Let Nature pour down upon my burning head...I am so intrigued by the idea of the personas he created to express different hims, or views that where perhaps not him at all.
One way to overcome self doubt is through adopting a different identity.
His poetry brings for me all sorts of questions relating to who we are, and how we represent the self.
To lack a sense of self, is not in anyway to lack a sense of meaning, or so I feel this poetry tells me.
My introduction to Pessoa was by his letters to his lover, Ophelia.
The love and the way he reflects it to his lover was so intense that he gained my admiration promptly.
Then we began talking about the world of poems and that was the moment I realized the intensity of my love to this woman and that moment made Pessoa special to me.
I always loved poems and i presume that the way i feel about these is correlated with this admiration up to a point.
The Caiero and Campos poems are quite good, sort of unaddressable really, and Pessoa's own earlier works are great, but he sort of slumped into odd mediocrity which his other splinter personalities never seemed to have experienced. Ries is included briefly, too, but he's mundane. The whole idea of the heteronym, basically an artistically productive imaginary friend, is neat. I can't count how many people who have read Pessoa who remarked that the whole enterprise was due to him being schizophrenic!
Pessoa is lovely and I am very happy I am able to read his poems in its original language, coz if you translate to any language it will loose most of its geniality and the way he plays with sound and words to create imagery. I love him to the moon and back.Example:" E tresloucadas ou casadas com o som das baladas,As fadas são belas, e as estrelasSão delas... Ei-las alheadas......E são fumos os rumos das barcas sonhadas,Nos canais fatais iguais de erradas,As barcas parcas das fadas,Das fadas aladas e hiemaisE caladas...Toadas afastadas, irreais, de baladas...Ais..."
Hayır, hiçbir şey söyleme!Ne söyleyeceğini kestiren-Kapalı ağzın-ŞimdidenDuyuyor söyleyeceklerini.Daha iyi duyuyorSenin söyleyeceğinden.Ortaya çıkmayacak ne olduğunSözlerinden ve günlerinden.Kendinden daha iyisin sen.Hiçbir şey söyleme: sade ol!Bedenin çıplak inceliğiGörünür görünmeden.
Never been this captived with poetry since Baudelaire. Pessoa was a great writer without a hint of a doubt.
