https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6134826-blue-moon
It's official...I love Ever and Damen just as much I love Bella and Edward. Seriously, folks...give the Immortals series a chance. You will not be disappointed. ***UPDATE***I have since tried to read another installment, and have found there is really no comparison to Bella and Edward. I love B & E far too much and no other characters from other series can hold a candle.
She's an inconsistent character, doing one irrational thing after the other, and yeah, sometimes characters do that, but Ever's actions were contradictory.
The girl doesn’t have enough of a brain to make the right decisions and not to trust the most obvious bad guy in the world, but she’s smart enough not to go all the way?
After hours of make-out sessions, where hormones call at you desperately, let me ask again.
bad guy, after he confessed all the bad things he has done?
No matter how desperate you are for help.
I found this thing Irrational, and it simply drove me insane.
Αυτή η σειρά έχει μια μοναδική ικανότητα να με απογειώνει στην αρχή των βιβλίων και στη συνέχεια να με κατεβάζει… κατεβάζει… κατεβάζει… ολο και περισσότερο!!Μέχρι τη μέση ήμουν να σκάσω! Γυρνούσα σαν τρελή τις σελίδες για να μάθω τι έγινε έτσι ξαφνικά!Μετά;;;;Στασιμότητα... η εξέλιξη σαν να μείωσε ρυθμό, μέχρι που έγινε ό,τι πιο χαζό μπορούσε να γίνει.Έβερ, %#^*#@$@#%^$#^&$ έλεος πια!ευτυχώς που υπάρχεις κι εσύ για να μας δείχνεις πώς να ΜΗΝ αγαπάμε το άλλο μας μισό.
Ever one-ups herself in this one, proving to be the dumbest fictional character of all time.
Seriously, the girl is dumb, the plot limp, the characters even more haphazard than they were the first time around.
I can't even count how many times I was trying to mentally will the characters into being interesting and smart, but they never failed to disappoint.
Stephenie Meyer really likes it when her characters shudder....do you know what Alyson Noel likes her characters to do?
Shrug.
Even when they're not "shrugging", they're "lifting their shoulders".
Someone please buy Alyson Noel a dictionary, a thesaurus, and perhaps a book on human body language.
I'm not sure I'm gonna write a review for this one. I still have to write one for the previous book ooops...
I didn't think anything could possibly be worse than Evermore. And my goodness, was I wrong in thinking that. DNF, BECAUSE I'D PREFER TO HAVE SOME OF MY SANITY INTACT.
I hated this book, but I can't separate my frustration over Ever's stupid decision making from my annoyance with the book, so I don't know if I hated it because of what happened in it or because it just sucks.
So, in a nutshell, the whole book is about the fact that despite falling in love with each other over and over for hundreds of years, Ever and Damen have never had a chance to erm, consummate their love because Ever has always been murdered before that could happen.

I've said it once, and I'll say it again: Ever is so stupid.Like, not just academic stupid, horror movie stupid. She's the fool who'll walk up the stairs toward the axe murderer while the front door lies wide open and the keys are waiting in the car's ignition. Sound familiar?It's funny how addictive these books are. I wanted to stop reading, but I couldn't bear to put the damn book down. I bought this one as a holiday read, and blazed through it in less than a day.
If you thought Evermore was full of suspense and unknowns, just wait until you read Blue Moon.
Noel took this novel in a direction I was never expecting, resulting in an emotional roller coaster ride that I never wanted to end.
Damen’s character was displayed on a whole new level in this novel, if you didn’t feel a connection with him in Evermore, you’ll be sure to in Blue Moon.
Not to mention the new incredibly enticing characters introduced; Roman, Romy and Rayne.Evermore was good, but Blue Moon is phenomenal.
If you’re looking for a new fantasy series that’s worth reading, be sure to check out the Immortals series.
What a strange yet exciting journey..
And by that, if I have interpreted the book correctly, I mean, "totally succeeded." Maybe this would lead to a triple score, as I really don't like the protagonists of this series and would enjoy watching someone completely out-smart them, except that he took a whole freaking book to accomplish what I - even without omnipotent powers that "immortal juice" apparently gives you sometimes - could have accomplished in like, an hour, provided I already had the plot devices of alchemy stuff (which the protagonist pretty much got simply by asking some random lady) a syringe, and a large frying pan for beating both the protagonist and her love interest over the heads until unconscious.
▪2,5▪
▪️2,5▪️
I tried.I really did.Never again.NEVER. FUCKING. AGAIN.
He can't stop being a brooding, mysterious, non-past-revealing teenager after six hundred years?
Really?) and now Ever has become clingy while being obsessed over not having sex though she thinks she wants to but she's not ready but she should be because she has always died a virgin so she needs to hurry up and get it on but she has all of eternity so what's the rush but he really wants to because he's never been able to have sex with her and she should really just give him that and I AM GOING TO SLAP HER.
I'm hoping things pick up and they stop being so incredibly irritating because, if that doesn't happen, I won't make it through the second CD.I listened to the whole thing and I will not be continuing this series.
In the first book I really loved Ever but now she became a little bit annoying.
The thing is another evil guy from the past comes and wants to destroy Damen this time.
Okay so obviously the love interest in this book is Damen.
Only good thing was that with him losing who he was basically Damen was not much present in the book.
There is also a an evil guy but just like with evil girl in book one they are not really characters but more of the probes.
The beginning was amazing!
From the beginning it grabbed my attention.
Although, towards the middle of the book its appeal left, and the plot became knotty.
However, the plot was like a roller coaster ride.
One moment you think you know what will happen next, then something thrilling happens.
This made me melt and keep reading.Alyson Noel wrote this book very entertaining, interesting, and engaging.
When you read this book you can tell that she knows what she's doing.
She has the plot all figured out.
And, even added surprises that make you demand more.I would have to have seen more of Damen, because he is one of the protagonist.
Blue Moon is one of those books that I can't just enjoy the "journey" of reading the whole story but I just want to get to the end to see what happens.
Yea, yea I know she felt something was familiar with him but still Noel fails to make me believe or see the deep-rooted love they supposedly have for each other.My second issue is the lack of developed characters.
When reading Blue Moon, it seems that Ever is the only character, the rest just making cameo appearances, and the result is a very hollow, shallow book.
This sequel picks up where the last left off and tells the continuing saga of the newly immortal Ever and her immortal soul mate Damen as they struggle with teenage inanities and an evil nemesis.
Eventually the book picks up when we, the reader, are invited on a shopping spree to Victoria’s Secret with Ever to watch her pick out the perfect pair of matching underthings that she’s going to wear as Damen finally deflowers her (oh but will he?!).
I’m just kidding about the book picking up here but not about the VS trip unfortunately.
Ever did what she does best - run around in circles while the readers wish she would do something to validate all the time they spent reading.The Immortals Series feels like it's trying very hard to be Twilight but it's just not bottling any of the lightning that made that series so memorable or such a success with certain readers.
That kind of laziness in story-telling doesn't encourage me to read on because I'll likely just get cheated out of any satisfying resolution again and again.
(hide spoiler)]I won't tell anyone else how to spend their money or time but I'm finished with the immortals series and wouldn't recommend it to anybody.
She can tell something is wrong with him.More in between sections until the "meat" of the story finally comes in.
It is from this that we get the most entertaining quote from the book:"The lions are now lunching with lambs" I almost peed from laughter.The only thing more annoying than this is the term "immortal juice" which just sounds nasty no matter how you swing it.I'm not going to rag about the plot, because honestly the plot could work if it was written better-in fact it has been written better, my real problem is the character of Ever.
Alyson Noel is doing the age old "boy gets girl, boy loses girl, boy gets girl back..." thing.
*SPOILER ALERT**I do believe that the next book will right the wrongs and get our characters back where they belong-in eachothers arms!
Crazy!-What is the deal with her believing what Roman says over the creepy twin?!
She hates him the whole book doesn't trust him for a second and all of a sudden she believes him over someone who she has no reason to disbelieve!
I had a hard time putting this book down.I did have a little gripe with this book, What happened to Ever?
Not to give anything away but the ending came out of nowhere.
Ever starts out not trusting Roman, even though everyone has fallen for him.
Then comes the end ...
she does a 180 and trusts him whole heartedly.
Out of nowhere?I've got no problems with cliff hangers, but it was so out of character for Ever to trust Roman that I had a hard time believing it.
I really really disliked the ending.Would I recommend it?
I liked the 1st book Evermore...though it may seem like a knock-off of the Twilight sagas, still the author manage to introduce new ideas and concepts like, auras, "elixir of life (from theories of alchemy), sacras, etc.
What happened?!?
I guess I'm just not used for the female protagonist to be written this way, all wrong and bad things that had happened was due to her impatience, recklessness and not using her head.Writing-wise, literary use of words were just ok, not spectacular and impressive.
Atleast, the 3rd book Shadowlands have redeemed it A LITTLE, but there's still a lot of improvement to be hoped upon.
How this series continues to amaze me.
I don't know how, and I don't know why.
It has never happened before.
Never have I believed that every book of a six book series would be two trios of stunningly beautiful books.
Well, I believe so now.
Alyson Noel is amazing.
Her writing though...
wow.
Alyson Noel has topped my top author chart.
I just love her writing, somehow it gets to me a lot.
I totally understand Ever, and I feel her frustration just through Alyson Noel's writing.
Read the immortals series.
Believe me, I think they're that good.
I rate this somewhere between a 2 and a 3.
She can even read his thoughts and see his aura now.Determined to save him, convinced it has something to do with Roman, Ever will do whatever it takes to bring back Damen - though never did she expect to be given a chance to sacrifice everything to right an old wrong.This series easily fits that publishing fad, you know the one, where when one series does exceedingly well, they eagerly put out a hundred other books just like it.
2 starsUpon finishing the first book of this series, I was unsure how this was a 6 book series. Upon finishing this book, I'm honestly still unsure. On the bright side, they make a good distraction and make me appreciate the other books I'm reading that much more, even if I spent the majority of the book wanting to just smack the MC. I need a slight break before returning for book 3.
But Alyson Noel surpassed all my expectations, and not only is Blue Moon an amazing sequel - it sets the bar for the rest of this series very, very high!
I think that Blue Moon is better than Evermore - which is saying A LOT since I loved the first one.
Another highly recommended book from Alyson Noel, I can’t wait to read more about Ever and Damen.
(And yes, I know it starts out about Ever and Damen's love life and all that, but the book doesn't focus on that-you really need to read the whole thing-it gets amazing!)
Reviewed by Sarah Bean the Green Bean Teen Queen for TeensReadToo.comEver is now an immortal, and she's eager to learn everything - from manifesting objects to visiting the paradise Summerland.Things are looking up for Ever and Damen, who can finally be together.
But Alyson Noel surpassed all my expectations, and not only is BLUE MOON an amazing sequel - it sets the bar for the rest of this series very, very high!
They added to the story but still have a lot of mystery surrounding them, so I'm eager to see how the many stories that were weaved together in BLUE MOON will play out.Another highly recommended book from Alyson Noel, I can't wait to read more about Ever and Damen.
