https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9615347-anya-s-ghost
‘’No one has the right to decide who gets to live or die.’’ I will tell you straight away that this is so much more than a comic. I thought it would be a cute tale, a whimsical ghost story and, following a discussion with my dear friend Marina, I decided to try my luck with Brosgol’s work. I was definitely in for a surprise. A bleak, haunting, and yet quirky and beautiful surprise.Anya is a young girl in high school. Having arrived to the USA from Russia before primary school, she has adopted t
A bleak, haunting, and yet quirky and beautiful surprise.Anya is a young girl in high school.
Her mother, a cheerful, loving woman, and her six-year-old brother don’t seem to help because Anya wants to fit in, influenced by the vile notion of the ‘’popular’’ student.
Her life changes drastically in ways that she couldn't have anticipated when she decided to make the 90-year-old spirit her new best friend.Yes, this comic is rich in beautiful illustrations whose palette consists of blue, white, black and grey but this is just the tip of the iceberg of excellence.
Maybe it’s different in other schools around the country, but according to my experience in Orange County circa 1990, school-based YA lit just doesn’t ring true.Generally speaking, of course.
Just not as healthy as you’d imagine.In the first place, Brosgol works hard to make Anya a character who very easily could be weird or strange or unwelcome but isn’t.
Sometimes that means shortening an obnoxiously difficult-to-pronounce last name and sometimes it means forsaking the other kid from your country who hasn’t quite overcome his eager-foreigner tendencies yet.It happens…In a lot of ways, Anya’s Ghost explores the same cultural experience Gene Yang looks at in 
I could really relate to how Anya was feeling, and I’m glad that she gradually started to accept her background and history over the course of this story.It was a quick read that I had been looking forward to for months now.But the whole story with Emily, the ghost, didn’t really move or excite me (I do have to admit that I couldn’t read this at night—Ghosts scare me!).Oh, and Anya’s beep test in gym class brought back those horrible memories of my test.It’s been years but that beep test still haunts me.3.5 stars*Note: I'm an Amazon Affiliate.
If you're interested in buying Anya's Ghost, just click on the image below to go through my link.
Wanted it to be more creepy.Full review to come!
It made me remember everything that’s possible in a graphic novel, but impossible when the story is confined to mere words.
Vera Brosgol infuses every cell with so much meaning and emotion.I think that I fell in love with Anya on about page two.
She is a curvy, sarcastic, insecure, unmotivated, smart, snarky, dark, sweet Russian girl who wishes to be everything that she’s not.
I think that a lot of young people have that insecurity, that feeling of ill-fitting discomfort, like your entire person just doesn’t quite belong anywhere.
Just to *touch* this book is a special treat. The black and white graphic photos are filled with emotion themselves.Anya is a teenage girl -in High School -in the United States ---from Russia. Yeah....'you' try fitting in! The story, photos, shape of the book, 'feel' of the book, the experience of the book is endearing, enchanting, spooky, sweet, sad, funny, .................and so delightful!
She is insecure in how she looks, she’s self-conscious about her heritage, she has a crush on a boy who has a blonde All-American girlfriend with the perfect life and she argues with her mum all the time because they don’t understand how the other one is feeling.
It’s OK not to fit in because the people who you think are living the perfect life are just as flawed as the rest of us.
People who like their heroines sarcastic, realistic, flawed and AWESOME.
People who have ever looked at someone else’s life and thought they would want to swap.
Like me, If you are afraid of ghosts, just the mere thought of them can make you go crazy, I'll suggest not the read the book in night.
This is what I did and Oh God, Don't ask me what it was like to sleep turning off the lights.If it's difficult for you to see how the characters change drastically, just in a blink of an eye, in any book, if this change troubles you, leaving you thinking how,when,why then this is the book for you.Anushka or Anya is just a normal girl we have seen in every other movies.
Still, when one is in dire need of some cheat sheets to get through life, a ghost is an excellent ally to have.Although I read my fair share of graphic novels (i.e. manga), I wouldn't know the first thing about reviewing them.
Did you think I read them for the plot, or something?!But back to Anya: the story is...
which may or may not be a good thing.
Decent art, predictable plot and an interesting character make it worth an average rating.

I just really started getting into graphic novels in the past year or so, and so far, Anya's Ghost is my favorite.I loved the drawings, I thought the story was super engrossing, and really easy to follow (which isn't always the case with graphic novels).I thought this story was really unique and surprising.
I feel like a lot of teens will be able to relate to her, in one way or another.I think ANYA'S GHOST is the perfect choice for people who are curious about graphic novels but don't know where to start!I wish I would have read this a couple of month's ago for Halloween!
I asked them today what was their favorite book so far and there were a range of answers, but by far the favorite so far overall is Anya's Ghost, and our pretty lively discussion bolstered their claims and convinced me it was better than I had rated it.
. ..Anya's Ghost is a YA (maybe grades 5-8) novel by Russian-American Brosgol.
Echoes of American Born Chinese re: wanting to fit in, being somewhat ashamed of your heritage.Then Anya falls down a hole and encounters a ghost, Emily.
When she gets out of the hole, she now has a (secret ghost) friend who helps her with grades, helps her to dress more fashionably (in order to attract the hot boy), and so on.
As if it being five o'clock on a Friday of a three day weekend isn't exciting enough, I found a blue library envelope on my doorstep this afternoon with a brand spanking new copy of Anya's Ghost inside.
She's negative and snarky, so focused on conformity she's unable to appreciate the unique aspects of her life and the good things that come with it.Anya may think her greatest wish is to go unnoticed but in reality she's just looking for someone who can understand what she's going through.
Are your wants and needs more important simply by having the distinction of being yours?As I mentioned, it's the Friday of a three day weekend so I'll keep this short, but Anya's Ghost is a real keeper.
Just a mini-review:-the art is so cute I wanna die-weird traces of girl-hating-generally just a little bit rushed?-kind of a cheesy ending-but very cute and fun and fast-paced-i liked it, hurray
Vera Brosgol’s comic tackles the familiar theme of alienation, where a teenager with a foreign background is trying to fit into American society as well as deal with the twin minefields of high school and puberty.
Just when I thought Anya’s Ghost was veering a little too close to another “teen girl haunted by a ghost” story, Faith Erin Hicks’ Friends With Boys, Brosgol takes things in an unexpectedly dark and exciting direction as Anya discovers the truth of Emily’s past.
If I’d read this before American Born Chinese, Friends With Boys, and Ms Marvel, I’m sure I’d be more enthusiastic.
Well, this was quite enjoyable and yet at the same time quite disappointing, I guess.To start off with the positives, what I really loved about Anya's Ghost is its artwork and colour scheme.
I didn't like or dislike the characters and the same goes for the story line.You know something all of us fail to realize?
Anya could have been cool and awesome if she didn't yearn to be thin like all the other popular girls and wanted all the good looking guys.
I feel like the ghost was the only character in this story that actually had some personality.
Not what I was expecting! Really enjoyed it!
4.5* I really enjoyed this. It was brilliantly creepy in all the right ways, yet it also has an underlying depth and fantastic message to it which I really enjoyed! It flowed well and I really loved the art style! Finished it in under an hour and thoroughly enjoyed it, I can't wait to read more from Vera Brosgol in the future! Such a great graphic novel!
I was happy to get up this morning because I knew I'd get to finish it over breakfast.I WAS HAPPY TO GET UP ON A MONDAY, PEOPLE.The still reasonably short review:I'm not feeling very eloquent today, so I thought I'd post a transcript of how I sounded as I read Anya's Ghost:"Oh, shoot – this is due back at the library soon.
This is getting really good.""That was pretty funny.""That was really sweet!""HOLY CARP, THAT'S THE FUNNIEST THING I'VE EVER READ.""Okay, this is getting kind of spooky...""I SO WAS NOT EXPECTING THAT.""OH HOLY NIGHT THIS IS REALLY SCARY.""Aw!
Anya's a very unique and relatable character who matures in the book.
I like how the story shows many sides to bullying- those who get bullied experience it in different levels, some better than others so there forms a hierarchy even among the bullied, while they still think about being cooler.
I love how Anya's culture and immigrant experience shapes her maturity not in an overt and explicit, in-your-face kinda way, so it's believable and really admirable in the end when she sees that she doesn't have to let what others think about her affect her cultural pride and identity.
Brief Introduction: After reading so many graphic novels that dealt with superheroes and electrifying bloody action scenes, I finally came across a graphic novel that is aimed at young adults, but actually deals with the more mundane aspects of our lives (or should I say, the more spooky and supernatural aspects of our lives). “Anya’s Ghost” is a young adult graphic novel by Russian born author Vera Brosgol and is also Vera Brosgol’s debut book and it has everything that you would enjoy from an
“Anya’s Ghost” is a young adult graphic novel by Russian born author Vera Brosgol and is also Vera Brosgol’s debut book and it has everything that you would enjoy from any young adult novel detailing a teenager’s angst of going through high school (boys, popularity and GHOSTS!)
I also loved the way that Vera Brosgol provided so much mystery surrounding the ghost girl as you have to wonder to yourself about why she is with Anya in the first place and what her purpose is for being with Anya?The artwork: Vera Brosgol’s artwork is truly creative to look at as the coloring of the artwork is mainly in black and white, which truly gives the appropriate spooky feel to the story.
ANYA'S GHOST was insightful, quick, and a bit creepy.i love how anya develops throughout the novel.
anya tried so hard to change the way she is, but girl, YOU SHOULD GO AN LOVE YOURSELF.
i felt j.biebs right there.) the whole book basically follows how anya changes and realizes that she should be proud of who she is and embrace that.the story is told an equally adorable (because of the art) and creepy (because of the GHOST) way.
i liked how short, quick, and to-the-point this book was.overall, i really enjoyed this novel!
Well this was fun! I loved the art: it was really cute and stylized and awesome. And I really loved the story line: it became creepy and dangerous and that was awesome! However, I can't give it 5 stars because I didn't like the main character.. I was hoping she would grow throughout the story, but she really didn't!I recommend this graphic novel, peeps! It honestly felt more like a cool comic book! :D
It also had a great message about how we never know and understand fully what others are thinking or what they are going through.The main character, Anya, falls into an old well that has a skeleton of a young girl from many centuries ago.
Also, it has her ghost.
Anya becomes friends with the ghost.
Anya is embarrassed by her family, self-conscious about her body, and she pretty much has given up on fitting in at school.
The ghost helps her improve all these parts of her life....
however, the ghost is not who she says she is.
Rating:  3.5 stars Why I liked this book:-The girl has a great body.*Not just skin and bones*-Plot twist.-Real problems.-There is a lesson to learn at the end of it.-Short *wink*GR's reading challenge*wink*.Yup, that is the whole review. Adios mi amigos!I'm not even Spanish.
I liked it. Quick, fun read. Nothing special about it though.
It’s still a great and creepy story with excellent artwork but it’s not 5 star material.Original review- Fresh from the pages of Anya's Ghost, I can honestly say that this book is a great read!
The story follows the daily life of a Russian girl called Anya who, after falling down a well, encounters the ghost of a young girl and turns her world upside down.
I don't want to give too much away but I honestly didn't see the plot unfolding the way it did which made a lovely change!If you like strong and humorous storytelling with amazing graphics then you'll love this; it was touching, engaging and pretty eerie too!
Anya é uma personagem muito relacionável, bem construída e me apeguei a ela mesmo em poucas páginas.
A mensagem por trás do quadrinho é demais, e quando você entende o que a autora quis, começa a ver coisas que ela inseriu na história que reforçam muito bem o ponto dela.Não é aquele quadrinho "oooh, mudou minha vida", mas não deixou de ser relevante, gostoso e rápido de ler.
Até dei uma mini choradinha no final (estou sensível ultimamente, relevem, hahahaha).
Acho que a autora poderia ter até aproveitado mais as reviravoltas e desenvolvido uma história um pouquinho mais complexa, mas mesmo assim não deixou a desejar.
Anya's Ghost I found Anya’s Ghost created by Vera Brosgol, an enchanting and entertaining graphic novel. It’s a YA magical tale that hits that sweet spot where is an appropriate read for young readers and still interesting for adults. On a completely different note, I also learned what the acronym “FOBBY” stands for (Fresh Of the Boat, in case you didn’t know either).This graphic novel is about a girl named Anya Borzakovskaya, her struggles adjusting into her life as an American teenager and of
On a completely different note, I also learned what the acronym “FOBBY” stands for (Fresh Of the Boat, in case you didn’t know either).This graphic novel is about a girl named Anya Borzakovskaya, her struggles adjusting into her life as an American teenager and of course a ghost.
I was pleased to see that in Anya’s Ghost, Ms. Brosgol seem to have escaped what, to me could have been a flaw in her depiction of Anya and the other young characters in this story.Anya is far from perfect, she smokes, is sometimes disrespectful to her mom, dishes fellow Russian immigrant Dima because he’s too “fobby” and cuts classes.
*** Review Anya's Ghost on Kati's Bookaholic Rambling Reviews ***http://katisbookaholicramblingreviews...Anya's Ghost was an absolute amazing and fantastic graphic novel that I thoroughly loved and enjoyed.
I've been wanting to read some spooky reads for the fall especially in October for Halloween, which I absolutely love reading spooky or horror books the month of October.
So I decided to check out Anya's Ghost because I heard amazing reviews about it and a lot of my book friends highly recommend this graphic novel to me.
And OMGosh I am so glad and happy I check this book out from the library, because it is one of my absolute favorite graphic novel ever.
