https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15790829-country-girl
Edna O Brian has led a fascinating life and was quite the woman.
Well 'is' quite the woman as she is still with us.
If the book had continued in the same vein as the early chapters, I would have given it 5 stars, but it develops into continuous name dropping, some of which was interesting (I liked the story of her night with Robert Mitchum) but most of which was dull, detracted from the story and was just a little tedious.
There seemed no context to it and it detracted from the rest of the book.
Deludente biografia, che, tranne nella parte iniziale in cui la scrittrice parla della sua infanzia nella campagna irlandese e del suo forte legame con la madre e poi del rapporto con il marito geloso dei suoi successi letterari, per il resto non ha suscitato in me alcuna emozione particolare.
L'elenco degli incontri con attori, registi, cantanti e personaggi del jet set internazionale, come Jackie Kennedy Onassis, può incuriosire ma, appunto, è solo un elenco e nulla più.
E' stata una scrittrice trasgressiva?
Dal libro lo si può immaginare soltanto per le feste a tema alcool e droga cui si accenna.Due stelle e mezzo, direi.
Ella estaba en cierto modo destinada a ser unas de las grandes escritoras Irlandesas y de la literatura en general a pesar de los muchos obstáculos que se fue encontrando: Unos padres que tenían reservada para ella un futuro como farmacéutica, un país de nacimiento, Irlanda, extremadamente católico donde se quemó y prohibió su novela " Las chicas de campo", siendo definida como las aventuras de dos ninfómanas irlandesas, y un marido, Ernest Gebler, que lo único que podía hacer era envidiar en secreto el talento para la escritura de su mujer.Estas Memorias vienen cargadas de recuerdos, de flashes que nos llevan de un acontecimiento a otro en la vida de Edna.
Wonderful lyricism as expected from Edna o'brien but a bit self-indulgent.
Ah, I made the decision last night to finally give up on this book. I tried and tried and tried to like it. I really did. I am not sure why it was such a difficult slog for me; I should have easily finished this thing over the weekend and just couldn't make any headway in it. No doubt my failing more than Edna's, but nonetheless I am calling it done with a hundred pages left.
I picked this book up because of the many rapturous reviews, not because I knew anything about O'Brien herself.
But whatever impulse pushed me to pick up this book did not lead me astray.
The writing is beautiful, and her musings on topics as diverse as Hollywood parties and the strife in Northern Ireland are equally wonderful to read.
She knew a lot of people (and criticism of her "name-dropping" seems unfair and possibly sexist - rarely is Hemingway hassled for writing about Fitzgerald, Dos Passos, and Stein) and her portraits of these famous people are quite incisive and interesting.
Fascinating read. Provides insight into the complex, febrile mind of the author. While there was much too much name-dropping throughout, the book was very moving in places, especially when one realises the author has spent her whole life searching for the great love of her life. And at 82 years of age, she searches still.
A quote on the back of the edition I read says "Flashes of prodigious beauty and power." Yes, I agree. But the flashes were few and far between. I just don't 'get' her as a writer. This book was all over the place, and the last few chapters, I had to force myself through and mostly skimmed them.
One night in their [her sons'] bedroom with all their clutter and paraphernalia, painted soldiers laid out on trays for battle yet to be, Paul McCartney entered.This is just one of the wonderful examples of understated prose found in Edna O'Brien's memoir The Country Girl, published last year.
Separated from her children, she finds herself portrayed in a custody battle as a harlot, the writer of obnoxious and obscene literature and an uncaring mother.Country Girl was a book O'Brien swore she would never write.
If you love Edna O'Brien's writing, as I do, you will love her memoir.
We made our mistakes, we suffered our losses, and hopefully created a better world for women.
Her memoir creates for her readers how she did it, what she won and what she lost.
She got to keep her kids but she never found lasting love with a man and she was almost always lonely.I especially loved learning just how autobiographical The Country Girls novels are.
But she escaped, she got revenge, she had a lot of fun, she wrote many novels.
Of course, Edna O' Brien drops names!
She made a success of herself despite childhood persecution and rural small-mindedness (not only did her parents not have a library, but they burned her books).
Her success was hard earned, and one of the components of exploring life outside the constraints she had known were parties in London and New York, sometimes with other thoughtful writers, sometimes with people by whom she was just as starstruck as would be us ordinary folk.
In my humble opinion, the quality of her writing overcomes any qualms I might have about name-dropping; her storytelling charmed me throughout.
Edna O'Brien's "Country Girls" trilogy were definitive books devoured in my far distant youth.
Very racy and dogged by controversy at the time, especially in Ireland.
They spoke to me at a time of confusion - a Uni student who struggled with pursuing studies or marrying young.
It is a curious book.
The wonderful, lucid, descriptive writing style is there but emotionally, it feels most detached - just like an old woman viewing her life at a distance.
True facts - but not expected of Edna O'Brien!
A much more passionate book written in a lucid style.
I loved the section in Ireland, her childhood right up to her marriage and when she leaves her husband and finally gains custody of her two boys (the first half of the book). Then the memoir loses some of its richness...gets caught up in social circles, brief stories. There are again moments of beauty and richness but...never in the same way. This is a memoir by a very private person, so...that shows.
I had read the Country Girls trilogy a few years ago, but knew next to nothing about Edna O'Brien's life; I was inspired to read her memoir when I read a feature on her and the book in Vanity Fair a few months ago (and a pretty solid chunk of the chapter about her marriage was quoted in the article).
I vaguely remember a similar sensation from reading The Country Girls.
I'm glad I picked this up, and Ms. O'Brien has had a truly fascinating life (all of those famous people!
But then, I didn't totally enjoy The Country Girls either.
Her prose is beautiful, and her story quite amazing.
My Two mistakes, most probably, are the reasons for the three stars.The Mistakes No 1: I had started this book immediately after the reading another memoir by one of Edna O'Brien's sons (Father & I: A Memoir).
Her son's memoir contained most of the scenes narrated in Edna's memoir.
The Mistake No 2: I had not read any of Edna O'Brien's earlier books.
In the memoir, the reader finds lot of references to her own earlier works and the situations in which a particular book was written and the situations that the book had to endure after the publication.
I barely knew who Edna O'Brien was going into this book, which may have put me at a disadvantage. It's not a structured biography, it's more like a series of vignettes from her life. She's a good writer and the beginning is promising, but much of this book is, well, plodding. And it shouldn't be like that when the author was one of Jackie Kennedy's besties, and had Paul McCartney serenade her, am I right?
I'm not usually a fan of memoirs, but this one was great. O'Brien relays the details of what must have been quite a sad childhood in Ireland without becoming maudlin. She's great at describing the social scene in London in the 60s and 70s, and you can really visualize the settings. I purchased an audio version of her first novel, The Country Girls, for an upcoming road trip.
Very rich memoir -- the period it evokes and the life struggles of an emerging woman writer. It's gorgeously written,confirming that O'Brien is truly a great writer. Inspires me to read more of her work and re-read The Country Girls Trilogy.
I listened to an audio adaptation read by the author, and abridged by Miranda Davies. Lyrical fiddle music introduces each episode of reflections from Edna O'Brien's memoir.
I think I've unconsciously assumed that a five-star book should have a tight, tidy Aristotelian structure. This one doesn't. It's baggy, but laden with treasures.
From BB Radio 4 - Book of the Week:The great Irish writer, Edna O'Brien, whose controversial 1960 novel brought her both literary fame and notoriety back home, reads her astonishingly honest memoir of a literary life of high drama.Born in 1930 into a strict Catholic family in rural County Clare, O'Brien rejected her background in search of literary life in Dublin, but found herself transported to London, unhappily married with two young children.
The publication of The Country Girls brought her literary stardom in sixties London, but also notoriety back home, and a bitter end to her marriage.
“…and so on that day in August, in my seventy-eighth year, I sat down to begin the memoir which I swore I would never write.”Unlike many fans of Edna O’Brien, I came across her based on reading a review of Country Girl: A Memoir in the New York Times.
I did not know anything about O’Brien as a writer before reading the review.
For whatever reason, though, the review intrigued me and I sat down to read.The book is divided into four parts chronicling different phases of O’Brien’s life.
For me Country Girl, the memoir of Irish author Edna O’Brien, is that book.
The couple ran away together which created a bit of a furore – Gebler was already married and you have to remember that this was a time when premarital sex was strictly a no-no.In 1960 O’Brien published her first novel, The Country Girls which, due to the frank portrayal of the sex lives of the characters, was banned, burned and denounced in all the churches throughout the land.
For me, Country Girl was a joy to read, painting a fascinating picture of a bygone era.
5 out of 5 stars for "COUNTRY GIRL: A MEMOIR by Edna O'BrienEdna O' Brien's family encouraged her to attend pharmacy school, but she left before finishing to marry an older writer, give birth to two sons, and publish, in 1960, her first novel.
The Country Girls so scandalized the O'Briens' local parish that the book was burned by the priest, her family disgraced.
Brilliant and sensuous, COUNTRY GIRL is a book that Edna O'Brien was always meant to write.Dear Readers: Edna O'Brien has made of her memories something of both precision and depth; letting us see her as she was!
This section begins with her thoughts on "The Troubles" in Ireland, quaintly named but clearly a cycle of vicious, bloody violence.
O'Brien never loses sight of the individual, "one prison guard cried, and another laughed" when Bobby Sands died and their moral choices in these times.
It makes criticism of her seem all the more reasonable, as she exuberantly relates her stories of outings with friends, with little awareness of how far removed this lifestyle is from her upbringing in Ireland.
The final part of this memoir will come as no surprise to those familiar with the storytelling techniques of the Irish, but as far O'Brien as come she has never really left home.
More importantly, I had no idea who Edna O'Brien was, and I went into reading an author's autobiography without ever having read a single one of her books.
Usually, when I pick up a memoir - which is something that as it is, does not occur very often - it is to find out more about a person that I am already interested in, for example to find out where an author found the inspiration for their work.
Edna O'Brien truly is a writer, and a brilliant one.
This memoir truly got me interested in O'Brien's work and I am sure I will pick up some of her books in the future.
This memoir sat beside "The Country Girl Trilogy" on my bookcase as I tried to decide which to read first.
Choosing to read O'Brien's fiction first enhances the experiences related in her memoir, and is a direct path to understanding how she could write some of the scenes in which Kate tries to forge ahead despite the antiquated rules of her society, especially those with her husband.
You're alone with yourself, and your writing, and the feeling of one's mind fraying, from a lot of things - the weight of time, the wailing of the foxes."Today, eighty-year-old Edna O'Brien lives in London.
She's a natural raconteur - the gift of the Irish, some would say.I've always loved her writing - her first book The Country Girls was part of my growing up.
Between them and the nuns she grew up insecure and unequipped for life in the real world.An early, disastrous marriage to a control freak who was also an author almost destroyed her.
'You can write, and I will never forgive you,' he told her after he had read her book.
I loved the writing - she is as lyrical as ever and I can hear her voice as I read the prose.A flawed book, but she's always worth listening to.
Her memoir is a pastiche of remembered moments strung together like a rosary, delivering the same stunned wonder as her fiction.
"We strolled over to where the horses stood, near-motionless, like circus apparitions.
"You're doing great," he said, but my heart was going pitter-patter as I remembered horses of long ago, in the stables at night, crashing against their wooden partitions and whinnying to be let free, their pent-up energy so great, so wild, it was as if they would break the door down.
347) The book is divided into four parts, corresponding to childhood and youth, first steps as a writer, fortune and fame, and retirement.
