https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/61264.Silk
أن تموت شوقًا إلى شئ لن تجربه أبدادع أناملك تنزلق على خيوط الحريردع مشاعرك تنساب نعومة لتختلط بمشاق الحياةفتخففها حيناوتبرزها حيناولا تنسهذا الحرير أدمى قلوب يرقات صغيراتكدّت وتعبت كي تتمتع أنت بهذا الملمسوهذا الشعورإنه نزيفهن وذروة كفاحهنذلك الكفاح الذي لا يجنين من ورائه شيئاولكن تذكر أيضا أن الحرير ذو متانة عاليةفهن لسن منكسرات أو ضعيفاتأنهن ينضحن قوة لا تعرف مداها بعد::::::::::::::::::على هذه المفارقة يلعب باريكو لعبته الصغيرة تلكويكتب رواية بساطتها لا تقلل من جمالها أو عمقهاتبدو الرواية ك

This is another form of love story, one written in almost poetic form. It was a major world-wide bestseller years ago -- millions of copies -- and if you haven't had the chance to read it, you should do yourself a favor. It's short and poignant and beautiful, in every way.
SILK is an easy story to relate to: it is about the idea of love.
Now, it would have been easy for the author, Alessandro Baricco, to bombard the reader with fascinating details about the politics of Japan, and the history of opening the island to outsiders.
It is while in Japan that Herve has a realization of love.
When Herve returns this last time, charred villages and a way of life that he remembers are black phantoms upon the landscape.
(Not to mention the woman that Herve loves?
As a tale it also has an element of the oral tradition, with periodic repetitions to help its audience remember, repetitions which have bothered some readers, but which for me made the reading faster.It also has some historical pegs, such as 1861 and Abraham Lincoln and the American Civil War, or the effects of the earlier Treaty that Commodore Perry forced on Japan to open up its borders to Western Trade, or the geopolitical setting of an Asia as the theatre for the colonial wars between the various European powers, when the UK was selling arms to the Japanese government, while the Netherlands supported the rebels as the Japanese civil war erupted.
Did I read that or dream it? No matter, it was beautiful...
Si accorgerà che i copia-incolla del signor Baricco non sono un tentativo di evadere da una narrazione di più ampio respiro, ma il semplice adeguarsi a una forma narrativa per sua natura sintetica e formulaica.
E non mi venga a dire che non sente anche lei quanto il signor Baricco ami ogni storia che scrive.
»Quindi lei sta dicendo che il signor Baricco non vuole… comunicare nulla?
»E lei non pensa che sia proprio questo il motivo per cui la qui presente Corte debba condannarlo?« Se quello che racconta è piacevole, se lo racconta bene, perché bisogna condannarlo?

Very briefly: After seeing the unfortunate, movie tie-in edition’s cover, I had an Oh-No!
It’s a Romance moment.
So I read, disregarding the cover, defiantly at times.
Read more.
Read more.
And all of the sudden, the airiness of the text, the nice use of iteration and variation, and as much as I hate to say, the plot, began working in my favor.
It’s the absence of text, the lightest hint of language, that makes it work so well.
Comfortable language, cozy, gentle.
Right book at the right time.***********This is not really a view, this is
"I never even heard her voice."And after a while:"It is a strange grief."Softly:"To die of nostalgia for something you will never live."I finished this in a matter of hours.
My advice on this book would be: do not let that, nor its slim size, nor the whispering, simple voice that it adopts, fool you into thinking that it is insubstantial in any way.
The end got to me even after my short acquaintance with the book.
In the end, it doesn't matter if you do or not.
What matters most is the feeling you experience while you absorb it.
Flaubert was writing Salammbo, electric light was still a hypothesis and Abraham Lincoln, on the other side of the ocean, was fighting a war whose end he would not see.Herve Joncour was thirty-two years old.He bought and sold.Silkworms Whimsical, ethereal, like air between your fingers, shimmering light reflected in the still waters of a lake at the end of the world, the flight path of a blue crane across a cloudless sky :  Silk I don't want to write a long review, scrutinizing the plot or the characters motivations.
a silk veil so fine it is almost transparent, tranforming the world seen through it into a space for dreams.
A tale, but not a tale. A novel, but not a novel. A sad story, but not a sad story. A love story, but not a love story. Silk is everything summed up in a few lines. A masterpiece.
Magnífico, espectacular, sublime.Como el tacto de la seda, esta novela está relatada con una sutileza y una sensualidad que encandilan al lector desde las primeras líneas.Suave, a ritmo acompasado, con delicadeza pero con soltura, vamos conociendo la historia de nuestro protagonista, Hervé Joncour. Corría el año 1861 […]Hervé Joncour tenía treinta y dos años.Compraba y vendía.Gusanos de seda. Y cuanto más nos vamos adentrando en la historia más aspectos de su vida conocemos. Lavilledieu era el n
Magnífico, espectacular, sublime.Como el tacto de la seda, esta novela está relatada con una sutileza y una sensualidad que encandilan al lector desde las primeras líneas.Suave, a ritmo acompasado, con delicadeza pero con soltura, vamos conociendo la historia de nuestro protagonista, Hervé Joncour.
Este joven francés, por requerimientos del oficio y debido a los daños que las epidemias afligían, con cada vez más intensidad y frecuencia, a los cultivos situados en las tierras europeas, se ve inmerso en largos viajes en busca de gusanos de seda sanos que llevar de vuelta a Lavilledieu.
Este es mi primer libro que leo de Alessandro Baricco. Seda es una novelette de capítulos muy cortos, minimalista y con una narración que se me hizo directa y, en su mayor parte, superficial, ya que se dejó de lado un recurso que considero muy valioso: la autorreflexión. De todas maneras, es un libro entretenido, que se lee rápido y, a pesar de que ni los personajes ni la historia me terminaron de convencer, lo recomiendo para una tarde aburrida.
Credo ormai di aver compreso che Baricco sia uno di quegli scrittori privi di vie di mezzo, per quanto riguarda il loro rapporto con il lettore: o piace, o non piace.
E credo anche di aver capito che io rientro decisamente nella prima categoria.Come per gli altri scritti, è difficile per me scrivere una recensione di Seta.
E se in Oceano Mare il sottofondo era quello dello sciabordare delle onde, qui è il fruscio della seta di Lavilledieu, il canto degli uccelli nella voliera in Giappone, il dialogo muto tra gli sguardi di Herbé Joncour e la donna con il viso da ragazzina, ma anche e soprattutto l'amore di Hélène, così potente.Una carezza sulla pelle, un battito di palpebre, una sensazione nel profondo dell'anima.Tutto e niente.
3.5* I read this in almost one seating while waiting at the hairdresser.
I enjoyed the book but I have a problem with short novels/novellas.
I remember that at one point in my life I was only reading books over 500 pages.
I prefer them because you have time to know better the characters, to discover their secrets, the way they think.
There is also time for character development.
Shorter novels usually leave me wanting more and it was also the case with Silk.
Having said that, I liked the writing, I thought it had an interesting construction and I am planning to read more by the author.
Storia di viaggi per mare, di treni a vapore, di un uomo che narra la propria vita come mai prima d'allora. E nelle pagine echeggia la voce di Hélène, mentre nell'aria si diffonde il profumo dei gelsomini. "Questo non è un romanzo. E neppure un racconto. Questa è una storia. Inizia con un uomo che attraversa il mondo, e finisce con un lago che se ne sta lì, in una giornata di vento. L'uomo si chiama Hervé Joncour. Il lago non si sa."Un libro con l'incanto di una fiaba, narrata da uno dei migliori affabulatori esistenti.
It was translated into English in 1997 by Guido Waldman.
The novel tells the story of a French silkworm merchant-turned-smuggler named Hervé Joncour in 19th century France who travels to Japan for his town's supply of silkworms after a disease wipes out their African supply.
During his stay in Japan, he becomes obsessed with the concubine of a local baron.
His trade in Japan and his personal relationship with the concubine are both strained by the internal political turmoil and growing anti-Western sentiment in Japan that followed the arrival of Matthew C.
و پرواز آنها را نظاره میکنی.
Una historia melancólica, triste, sutil, evocadora. Se lee de una sentada pero deja un buen poso tras de sí
"He wasn't much cut out for serious conversations.
And a goodbye is a serious conversation."OK, for 125 pages I'm reading this thinking, "three stars, nice little story, fast read; wish more novelists could tell a sweeping romantic adventure tale with such dispatch.
Vivid, enjoyable, and even educational, but no great shakes."And then I get to the end, and realize the power of the wife's desire.
How he realizes what she did, and how she had felt.
How she knew about his inner life, and didn't want to be a surrogate.
Goddamn it hit me hard.
Although his father had pictured for him a brilliant future in the army, Hervé Joncour had ended up earning his crust in an unusual career which, by a singular piece of irony, was not unconnected with a charming side that bestowed on it a vaguely feminine intonation.  Hervé Joncour bought and sold silkworms for a living. The year was 1861. Flaubert was writing Salammbo, electric light remained hypothetical, and Abraham Lincoln, beyond the Ocean, was fighting a war of which he was not to see the
Hervé Joncour bought and sold silkworms for a living.
In fact this is the only time in my life that when I have finished a book, I have pounced on the person nearest to me and insisted that he/she read it.
Now whether he will ever read the book I don’t know.
Mary had read it quickly and concluded that it was a light read and then she brought up several questions that made the pair of us look through the book again.
Yes the birds did return.And then Joncour decides to build an aviary in France.
این کتاب بر اساس فراز و فرودهای یک سمفونی نوشته شده. من رو از هفتاد درصد به بعد شدیدا جذب کرد. مشکل از من بود که جذبش نشده بودم البته. وقتی که حوصله ی یک داستان سورئالیستی رمانس دارید بخونیدش، ناامیدتون نمی کنه.
قراءة هذه الرواية تشبه تمرير راحة اليد على قطعة قماش من الحرير؛ سينتابك شعور لذيذ وأناملك تنزلق على خيوط الحرير، سرعان ما سيختفي عندما تصل سريًعا، وبسبب النعومة الفائقة للحرير ، إلى نهاية القطعة!
سه و نیم ستاره.فرم قصه، که تیکهتیکه و کوتاه بود باعث میشد کتاب خستهکننده نباشه و به جزئیاتِ نامهم نپردازه. خود داستان هم خوب بود. گاهی انتظارت رو بالا میبرد و بعد ناامیدت میکرد. میتونست بهتر باشه. گاهی هم خیلی خوب میشد و سفیدی و بیچیزی فضای ژاپن و ساکتیش رو خوب میرسوند. پایان خوبی هم داشت.در کل خیلی جذاب بود که نویسندهای ایتالیایی از ژاپن بنویسه!
سه و نیم ستاره.فرم قصه، که تیکه‌تیکه و کوتاه بود باعث می‌شد کتاب خسته‌کننده نباشه و به جزئیاتِ نامهم نپردازه. خود داستان هم خوب بود. گاهی انتظارت رو بالا می‌برد و بعد ناامیدت می‌کرد. می‌تونست بهتر باشه. گاهی هم خیلی خوب می‌شد و سفیدی و بی‌چیزی فضای ژاپن و ساکتی‌ش رو خوب می‌رسوند. پایان خوبی هم داشت.در کل خیلی جذاب بود که نویسنده‌ای ایتالیایی از ژاپن بنویسه!
The main action is set between 1861 and 1874, as French merchant Hervé Joncour makes four journeys to and from Japan to acquire silkworms.
On his first journey, Joncour is instantly captivated by his Japanese advisor’s concubine, though they haven’t exchanged a single word, and from that moment on nothing in his life can make up for the lack of her.
The people of his French town don’t know what to make of him anymore: “They said he was a swindler.
At the end I went back and reread a number of chapters to pick up on clues I’d been too inattentive to spot.
Het is prachtig hoe Rébecca Dautremer dit verhaal van Alessandro Baricco zo zacht en subtiel heeft geïllustreerd, tegelijkertijd haar eigen verhaal vertellend, bijzonder hoe dat elkaar aanvult...
Ze heeft een magisch realistische tekenstijl en de Japanse kunst uit die tijd is hier zo ontzettend fraai in verwerkt (het verhaal speelt zich af vanaf 1860, in Frankrijk en Japan).Voor wie even wil spieken is hier een link naar een paar illustraties op haar eigen site: http://www.rebeccadautremer.com/bibli...En een clip op youtube: https://youtu.be/UHZTujFrptE[A fragile and sad story about love and desire, very mesmerising.
Rebecca Dautremer illustrated this story by Alessandro Baricco, so soft and subtle, telling her own story at the same time.
رواية «حرير» لأليسندرو باريكو هي واحدة من تلك الأعمال التي تتحرك في جغرافيا وسيطة بين السرد والشعر، حيث الكلمة كائن حر يتأرجح بين العالمين الكتابيين الملتبسين، ثمة بساطة استثنائية ومباشرة في سرد الوقائع وتلاوة الأحداث، مثل قوله «هيلانة هو اسم زوجته، لم ينجبا أطفالاً»، وثمة غنائية واضحة في ترديد مقاطع معينة من الرواية بما يشبه ما نقرأه في قصص الطفل، أو مداخلات (الكورس) في النصوص المسرحية، ففي كل مرة يمضي فيها بطل الرواية «هيرفيه جونكور» للسفر، يقدم لنا الراوي شرحا مفصلا عن الطريق في صفحة كاملة: «اجتاز الحدود بالقرب من مدينة ميتز، وقطع ورتمبرغ وبافاريا، دخل إلى النمسا، ووصل بالقطار إلى فيينا ومن ثم إلى بودابست وتابع سيره حتى كييف» وحتى آخر الرحلة، يقوم البطل خلال الرواية (وخلال حياته أيضاً) بثلاث رحلات، وفي كل رحلة يعاود الراوي شرح المدن التي عبرها والحدود التي اجتازها، وهو يقوم بذلك جزئياً، لكي يؤكد على العناء الذي تكبده بطله المسافر، وأيضاً لأن التكرار هنا، يخدم غنائية العمل الروائي، ويجعله السرد عامراً بالدندنة، والهمهمة، والرنين، ويسبغ على العمل -بزعمي- صبغة مثيولوجية وملحمية، إذ غالباً ما تتضمن النصوص الملحمية تكراراً لمقاطع معينة.
Sarà la struttura ciclica, sarà l'emozione delle parole. Sarà che non mi aspettavo nulla, sarà il Giappone e un mondo diverso. Ma che meraviglia le descrizioni, che meraviglia i racconti.Emozionante.
Un poem epic de o muzicalitate desăvârșită, despre real si imaginar, sub pretextul unei diafane povești de dragoste franco-japoneze, în care protagonistul se îndrăgostește (ori cel puțin așa crede) de un soi de nălucă, de o fata morgana orientală, a cărei existență care se va dovedi a fi, în cele din urmă, incertă.
O poveste simplă și totuși foarte concentrată, plină de mesaje subtile despre lucrurile pe care le căutăm în depărtare, dar care se află, cel mai adesea, la un pas de noi.Cred că mi-ar fi plăcut să citesc Mătase în sezonul cireșilor înfloriți.
Segundo o autor, este livro não é um romance, nem um conto; é uma história; mas não é uma história comum, acrescento eu. Deve lêr-se como uma história de encantar, um conto das mil e uma noites, sem racionalizar ou tentar encontrar razoabilidade nas personagens e na ação. Sendo assim temos uma escrita leve e macia como a seda e uma história que fala de desejos, de sonhos e de amores - dolorosos, impossíveis e às vezes vividos intensamente.
Prestito di una prestigiosa docente universitaria l'ho letto con religiosa attenzione. E una volta finito mi sono chiesta se sono cretina io o Baricco è sopravvalutato. C'era bisogno di scrivere un libro incentrato sul manierismo geishizzante e sullo stupor occidentale davanti ai topoi della femminilità giapponese? Bastava un articolo di fondo se proprio se ne sentiva l'urgenza di parlarne.
