https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/39963.A_Long_Way_from_Chicago
"I don't think Grandma's a very good influence on us," Mary Alice said.Every August, Joey Dowdel and his kid sister Mary Alice spend a week at their Granny's house.She was so big and the town was so small.
The sheriff even calls her a "one-woman crime wave." She may indeed seem to be as tough as a boot - after the first summer, Grandma doesn't even meet the kids at the train station; she figures that they can find their own way to her house, but Joey, Mary Alice, and the reader soon come to realize that she's something of an old softy inside.
It's about two kids from Chicago who go and visit their Grandma in the country every summer, and how she is exactly like my funny Grandma (aka "Granny") in North Carolina.My sister recommended this book to me after she read it in her book club.
I don't think most people do.Here is a story about my Granny and my one and only cousin Daniel.
This is exactly what the Grandma in this book was like, except it's a real story about my real Granny.Daniel was a little kid, and he found fire crackers in one of her closets.
This story’s grandma does not exactly fit the mold of the classic plump, white-haired, cookie-baking character used in other stories or commercial ads.
More than history, however, our readers see that classic societal problems as well as classic character traits have always been with us.Grandma doesn’t lecture these kids.
The problems include drunkenness and lewd behavior, child abuse, gossip, foreclosures, bullying and more.
The positive characteristics include caring for the poor and the elderly, independence, self-reliance, and wisdom.
Her sheer ordinary humanity is shown via the use of white lies, wit, patience, and hard work.
This is good, ol' timey fun. If you like A Christmas Story kind of content and storytelling, Richard Peck's series on the enigmatic Grandma Dowdel will warm your heart and jiggle your funny bone.
Yes, I'm picking up books from the children's section and reading them to myself.
But these books are so much easier to enjoy than the junk written for adult readers!!
Characters that you either want to meet or could swear you have already.
Circumstances that feel familiar and comfortable - like an old worn cotton shirt, the smell of breakfast coming up the stairs to wake you with the pleasant reminder that you are visiting grandma and they don't serve cold cereal here...
nice, friendly, pleasant.Maybe I should pick up flowers for algernon next so I can relate to the main character as his brain cells similarly disappear..!
This is just a really good MG book that I think all ages will enjoy. My adult daughter saw it on the table next to my writing space and said, "That is worth re-reading often." That's totally true. I love Grandma Dowdel and the complexity of her character, and I love seeing the two kids grow up over the years and be shaped by what they learn a long way from Chicago.
(Spoilers ahead.)When the children leave after their week with Grandma in each of the seven chapters of the book, they wave from the train even though Grandma never waves back.
In an epilogue set seven years after that last summer visit, the narrator Joey is 17 and on a troop train headed to basic training and, eventually, World War II.
He has sent a telegram to Grandma to tell her that the troop train will pass through her town, though without stopping, sometime in the middle of the night.
The train is two hours behind schedule when it finally does pass through Grandma's town in the hour before dawn.
Don’t let the juvenile designation fool you, this is a book anyone can enjoy. Granny Mazur’s grandkids soon learn that there is a lot more to her than her grouchy exterior. She doesn’t suffer fools or snobs lightly and has a great many tricks up her sleeves. She outwits both the rowdy neighborhood kids and condescending adults and you will enjoy every minute. My husband and I both laughed our way through this book and its sequel: A Year Down Yonder.Find A Long Way From Chicago at the Westminster Public Library!Find A Year Down Yonder at the Westminster Public Library!
Richard Peck’s, A Long Way from Chicago is the first book in the trilogy about larger than life character Grandma Dowdel and her grandchildren, Joey and Mary Alice.
(The second is A Year Down Yonder and the last is A Season Of Gifts.) Joey and Mary Alice are sent from Chicago to spend the summer each year with their Grandma Dowdel in rural Illinois.
I enjoyed this book but liked A Season of Gifts even more!
Activities for this age group might include learning about Chicago gangsters and what life was like during this era.
Joey and Mary Alice's Grandma ain't your sweet little granny.
Joey and Mary Alice visit her for a week each summer in the country--a far cry from their regular life in Chicago.
At first the siblings drag their feet to Grandma's, but after a few summers they can't wait to go and see what antics Grandma will get in to next.Loved this!
Grandma's sttitude reminds me a little of my own grandmother's and the country setting is just like where I grew up (and still live).
Grandma is hilarious and I found myself laughing out loud on more than one chapter.
A short amusing read about 2 young people and the summer they spend with their Grandma who is a character with guts and gumption who you'll remember. Very entertaining, with good belly laughs and moral instruction as well
Laugh-out-loud hilarious! Good for what ails you! Onward to the second in the series . . .
I basically just LOVE Richard Peck.
What a delightful read. It took me back to the country and gives you plenty of guffaws! I would love to read this out loud to children any day of the week. Grandma is one tough woman!
Depression-era Illinois is full of adventure for a little boy and his sister. Full of low-key, atmospheric 30's Americana.
Each story is about an adventure he has when he leaves Chicago to spend a week in a rural town with Grandma.“Adventure” again makes this book sound juvenile, but that’s the best word for it.
I’ve been reading a ton of historical fiction lately, and this little book is one of the better middlegrade historical novels I’ve read.“The years went by, and Mary Alice and I grew up, slower than we wanted to, faster than we realized.” - A Long Way from Chicago Grandma is eccentric, but never in a childlike, unrealistic way.
Joe and Mary Alice didn't really notice that after they had their summer visit, they learned good traits as a person and the reader would learn more of how family is important and being a great person to family and other people.
If looking for a book to have laugh or learn about family and good traits to have as a person, I would pick up the book, A Long Way from Chicago by Richard Peck.
A long way of Chicago made me laugh and I learned good traits without noticing after I finished reading.
The book takes place in the 1930's during the time of the great depression when siblings Joey and Mary Alice spend a week at their grandma's house every summer for nine summers.
They thought spending a week at their grandma's house in her sleepy town might be boring.
But it turns out that grandma's town is a lot less sleepy than Joey and Mary Alice thought.
Joey and Mary Alice didn't do much in the story.
I can relate to how Joey and Mary Alice feel when they found out something they thought was boring was actually really interesting.
If so, you will adore this book.Set in the 1930s, A Long Way from Chicago recount the summers Joey and Mary Alice spend with Grandma Dowdel.
She’s “old as the hills” , “tough as an old boot”, and so large she makes her quirky town look tiny.
I just happened to be reading this book aloud to my class, and I’ll never forget looking up and seeing Mr. Principal sitting at the back of the room laughing his head off.
I chose it because I wanted something that both Jake and I would enjoy for a quick road trip (Hence, "The Treasure Map of Boys" will have to wait).It was perfect.
Funny at times that we both burst out laughing.
Awesome sense of place and time, wonderful characters, entertaining stories.
We both so thoroughly enjoyed it.
I must admit, I dozed off towards the end of the book.
So I asked Jake to tell me the ending.
But I'll bet there are very few people aside from librarians (and maybe teachers?) who would pick out a "children's book" to listen to, even though there are no children involved.
Author Richard Peck started this novel as a short story, using his story "Shotgun Cheatham's Last Night Above Ground" as the first chapter when he discovered that his main character Grandma Dowdel couldn't be contained to just one story.
The narrative structure is built around grandchildren Joey and Mary Alice visiting their Grandmother in rural Illinois every summer.
We see the children age into teens, and their relationship with their Grandmother matures.
A lovely prologue and epilogue bookend the stories, and Grandma Dowdel is someone you will never ever forget!
The hero of this book remarks of his grandmother early on: "What little we knew about grown-ups didn't seem to cover Grandma." I'm not sure what anybody knows about anybody would cover Grandma Dowdle.
Unpredictable, cantankerous, sly, (and secretly, begrudgingly tender-hearted), she's an entertaining person to spend a summer vacation (or a book) with.
Each chapter presents a different summer visit to Grandma and a different episode of Grandma's outrageous but not exactly uncalled-for behavior.
She's a person I'd like to introduce to our congressional leaders.
What she'd do would be bound to surprise me, but I'd surely end up wishing I'd thought of it myself.
This woman is not your typical grandma. She is not always the best example of honesty, among other things. Yet she effectively solves a number of problems in the town and helps some of her grandchildren's dreams come true along the way. Grandma Dowdel makes for an interesting character, since she has such a gruff exterior, then unexpectedly does acts of quiet, true compassion. This story was highly entertaining, as well as heartwarming. I also really enjoyed getting a glimpse of a bygone era: small town America during the Great Depression. This book is well worth your time.
You've gotta love Grandma Dowdel. For instance, one morning the banker's prissy wife unexpectedly shows up on Grandma Dowdel's back porch. "Oh, Mrs. Dowdel," she said through screen wire, "you see before you a woman at the end of her rope." "I wish," Grandma mumbled. It's that kind of forthright wit that makes Grandma Dowdel a gem. She's feisty, cantankerous,and even at times a bit shady, but underneath that rough exterior beats a heart of gold. Just don't let her hear you say that.
I found this entertaining little ditty in my el station. I was surprised at what an enjoyable little book this was. There are these two kids who escape Chicago every year and go and visit their granny. Certainly nothing like my granny. Well, they were both tough old birds, so maybe they weren't all that different after all.
One of my absolute favourite books! The humour is exceptional and Grandma Dowdel is just one of a kind. While I love each chapter (each chapter is the week at Grandma’s farm that year), the last one (year 1942) is my favourite- THAT’S how you end a story! 5++ stars!
This book is so funny, had me laughing, grinning, chuckling. A great feel good book, which was well timed after an 'apocalyptic read'. I just love grandma and her tricks. Because of this, a fat five star rating!
It's a really good book, and sad too.
Loved this book. Grandma Dowdel rocks!!
It's probably been 3 years since I read this book. A quick fun childrens book.
