https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19390926-point-of-retreat
I loved Hopeless and Slammed so I had no reason to suspect that this book would be taking the fast train to suck-ville.
Lake throws tantrums constantly (Will's words, not just mine), and Will somehow thinks it is acceptable to use his 10 year old brother and neighbor to do his dirty work for him.
Will did not act like a 23 year old man.
In fact, he acted just like a 12 year old girl.
I can understand waiting the year to have sex as per Lake's mom (which that alone was so silly, but I'll let that go) but it is like he freaked out whenever they got close to hooking up.
I love how each and every one of the side characters and main characters were characters I'd want to read whole books about.
I have come to love slam poetry (well, at least the ones from this book, I don't really have any other experience with it).
I'd love to read more about all the characters in this book...
This girl is the rest of my life.” Definitely be sure to read book 1 Slammed first.
I'd recommend these books to pretty much anyone and everyone who loves to read.
I’m pretty sure I’m head over heels in love with this man.
He truly is something else, and I love that this story was told through his eyes.
I found Lake incredibly frustrating in this one, as did Will on occasion, and wanted to shake some sense into her more than once, but how it all wrapped up and tied together in the end was beautiful and breathtaking.
This is such an excellent story, with so many wonderful characters sprinkled throughout it.
I seriously want to move into their neighborhood and be a part of their lives.
4 1/2 to 5 Stars! Loved it! Why on earth did it take me so long to read this series. I love all three books, but this one is my favorite.
I loved it I loved itI butterflying loved itNot just because I hoped toNot just because I wanted to BUT  because it was lifeAnd in the end it is all there is.I loved it because it had willI loved it because it had WillAnd LakeAnd Gavin and EddieBecause sometimes friends make up familyBecause friends make up lifeAnd in the end it is all there is.I loved it because it had willI loved it because it had WillAnd his POVI got to know him even moreI got to love him ever more.You know when you meet some
And I don't give a flying Butterfly if you think I'm madSometimes a Butterflying kiss in the end isn't enoughAsk Sherry about itAsk Julia about it.Go ask them and see if they give youA flying butterfly.I loved it I loved itI butterflying loved itLook, Colleen HooverYou had me slammingYeah this is me slammingFor the very first timeFor the first butterflying timeI haven't cursed so much in my whole lifeBut now I know when life goes wrongI'll be able to look it straight in it's eyeAnd say BUTTERFLY youThank you, Colleen Hoover For giving us 

This book was the perfect sequel to Slammed that left me in that contemplative zone just thinking about the story and the characters and finding myself unwilling to let go.
I really enjoyed getting into his mind and journeying with Will as he struggles to prove that their love goes beyond the common bond of tragedy that brought them together.Point of Retreat continues to carry the concept of Slamming and never have I ever thought I would love poetry as much as I did - actually probably even more than I did in the first book.
Where the first book moved me with its remarkable inspiration, Point of Retreat touched me with its tender love story.
The characters are again faced with difficult trials and obstacles to overcome...and I will say that the slams continue, in every sense of the word.This sequel makes a smooth transition into Will's perspective, and I truly enjoyed getting the chance to experience the story through his eyes.
Layken's Mom, Julia, continues to be a major part of this story.
Although the last page has been swiped, these distinctive characters live on...If I were a carpenter, I would build you a window to my soul.
ehhh
BUTTERFLYING CHEESE!Maybe my experience with this book and this series would have been a lot better if I've read them as soon as they came out.
I found CoHo's writing non-satisfying compared to her other books which came out later, like Ugly Love and Confess.
All CoHo's books have that trademark twists so it was kind of hard for me to believe there wasn't any here.The over-the-top cheesy lines and dialogues were the main thing that ruined the book for me.
The good things:I loved Will's character development.
AMAZEBALLS!!!!!!!!!Seriously, I want to beat myself to a bloody pulp, poke my eyes out, jump out a window...whatever. I can't believe I waited so long to read these. What the hell???Colleen Hoover, where you been all my life???  Seriously people.....seriously. I am just speechless. I LOVED THIS BOOK SOOOOO MUCH! Now I know a lot of people loved Slammed more and honestly, I think I loved this one more. I'm in the minority and it's okay. I'm just different so it's all good. But really, being in Wi
Now I know a lot of people loved Slammed more and honestly, I think I loved this one more.
In this book, we get more of Lake, Will and the awesome gang that we met in Slammed, but we get to meet a few other characters too.
In Slammed, both Will and Lake faced several obstacles in their lives that brought them together.
In this book, they faced obstacles that tested their love for one another.
One thing I loved was experiencing everything through Will's eyes.
And his Slams were never less than perfect and I just fell in love with him so much more.
Especially when part 2 hit, oh my gosh, that was insane, and so scary!!!I couldn't have asked for a more satisfying and beautiful ending for all of these amazing characters in this particular book, because the characters are one of the main incredible aspects of this book!If I haven't made it clear enough already I butterflying LOVE these characters, every single one of themThe slam poetry was absolutely exquisite in this novel in particular, way better than in the first book, mainly because it was a lot more personal!The analogies that Hoover writes and brings to life within this story and these characters, I will never ever butterflying forget.
DNF at 34% and spoilers awl over the damn show.GIF:I am pissed.I always turn to CoHo when I'm looking for a little extra cheese on my pizza; some of her books are good like that.
Maybe Someday is one of my favorite NA reads, and Finding Cinderella has Six, but man, I hated this book.
I think they became less mature, like for real, they went backwards or some shit.
Like, using butterflying instead of *whispers* the f word.
I can do this as well: I butterflying do not like this book.
Of course that everyone who read Slammed will want to see what's going to happen in Point of Retreat.
Don't do this if you first haven't done your research - read the books, talk with people until you bore them to death, find pshychologists, social workers, teachers, parents, grandparents and the most important thing: men.Point of Retreat is, to put it simple, story about sex (not having sex, actually), car accidents and teen-wannbe-adults.
My review would be all rainbows and flowers and ohs and ahs if I had read this book just a year ago, but I guess that I crushed my big pink glasses a long time ago.What Tanja thought about it...
"Sometimes two people need to fall apart to realize how much they need to fall back together."  I EVEN MUCH MORE LOVED IT BECAUSE IT'S WILL'S POINT OF VIEW.10++++ inifinite starsA butterflying bemazing story ever! I cant believe I cried, laughed, giggled, squirmed, and swooned so many times in every possible way! It's definitely an emotional rollercoaster ride. This is my sweet. I love you Colleen Hoover and I butterflying swear to please have a third book cause I'm dying for more Will and Lay
I EVEN MUCH MORE LOVED IT BECAUSE IT'S WILL'S POINT OF VIEW.10++++ inifinite starsA butterflying bemazing story ever!
I love you Colleen Hoover and I butterflying swear to please have a third book cause I'm dying for more Will and Layken romance!
I butterflying love you Colleen Hoover!
Haha****This story also influenced me to listen to all the songs from Avett Brothers and I have come to realized that every piece of their music is somehow related to this book.
I loved every word and page of this book.
. .The heart of a man and a woman in love?It's worth all the pain in the world.
Life Life.Life is the one thing is this world that you can never fully prepare for. Never truly know what can happen from today until tomorrow.One day everything seems to be as it should be, the next? Everything is falling apart.How are we supposed to cope with the shit that is thrown our way? How are we supposed to smile and act when the worst seems to have happened?The loss of a family member, the relationship lost between friends, the loss of your income? Daily struggles that we face, daily
How are we supposed to smile and act when the worst seems to have happened?The loss of a family member, the relationship lost between friends, the loss of your income?
Never truly know what can happen from today until tomorrow.And even with all of the bad shit thrown at you?
Basically, it was just naming your highs as well as lows for the day, and I thought that was a great addition to the story and to the special bond they all shared...Throughout the book, Will and Lake have to come to a head with more issues that arise.
Love is the most beautiful thing in the world.
So much hatred for this book.Perhaps I will write a more comprehensive explanation of my rage at a later date, but for now I will say this:When Will and Lake's relationship is tested (in a totally contrived way I might add), Lake - after giving him the silent treatment for a few days - tells him that she just needs time to think about their relationship.Now i get that if you're on the receiving end of that statement, that can sound pretty scary.
“So I'm not about to apologize for loving all these things about you, no matter the reasons or the circumstances behind them.And no, I don't need days , or weeks , or months to think about why I love you.It's an easy answer for me.I love you because of you.Because of every single thing about you"Point of Retreat was so butterflying beautiful and amazing. It made me so butterflying happy!! Its not like me to give a high rating* to these kinds of books, since i love angst. I mean I really, really
It´s not like me to give a high rating* to these kinds of books, since i love angst.
I think that one of the reasons I loved it so much as I did was because I was in the right kind of mood after a few dark and heavy reads.
This book was just so butterflying cute.
I didn´t realize just how much I could appreciate poetry this much in a book.I liked this better then the first book Slammed, don´t get me wrong, it was darn cute too, and had the same uniqueness.
But this was told from Will´s POV, and I loved being in his head.
Ok, where do I start? Hmm, I NEED ANOTHER COLLEEN HOOVER BOOK NOW! There, that seems like an appropriate way to describe my feelings. After finishing Point of Retreat, I immediately came online to goodreads.com to check if there were any other books written by Colleen Hoover which I could read. Turns out, her next book is only coming out in 2013. What. The. Hell? I can't wait that long! I didn't want to believe it. Me after realising I could not read any other Colleen Hoover books very soon. An
I felt it was more appropriate being in his head this time because the things that occur in the book can probably only be fully understood if you know how he feels and what he thinks.
Point of Retreat is definitely a good book for people who love romance novels which are not too sad but are so touching that it will bring you to tears.
How they actually helped the two-Will and Lake- and at the same time had their own story going on in the book.
I would actually like to read a book about her and Kel when they are older and their romance story.
Butterflying Fantastic!Loved reading the story through Will's eyesI've not cried in a long time but I could't help it ...And I could not help laughing from the gut, which is very embarrassing when out in publicSo creative and stupidly smartGirls of Goodreads, don't leave this on the 'to be read' pile for long ... you'll slap yourself if you do.Rove use to ask the qn: who would you turn gay for?Thats easy: You, Colleen. You!
She also wanted us to set a good example for Kel and Caulder; she asked us not to spend the night at each other's houses during that year, either.Now, we know that the whole female virginity preservation plotline is one I'm just weary of, especially when it's as random and unnecessary as it is in Point of Retreat.Essentially, Layken's mother is orchestrating the course of their relationship from the dead.
The behavior that was drawn as romantic and endearing in Slammed that set off alarm bells for me (when Will punched another guy out of jealousy), reared its head again in Point of Retreat, when he sabatoges Layken's car (!) so he has to give her a ride in his, trapping her with him when she's trying to avoid him.
"I love it when she wears her hair down. I also love it when she wears it up. In fact, I don't think she's ever worn it in a way that made me not love it." I might have done my heart permanent damage by reading this. My emotions are a mess and my little feelings have been trampled upon beyond recognition. Basically, your typical Colleen Hoover aftermath.I love that Point of Retreat was told from Will's POV. I wasn't aware of the switch in POV (from Slammed) before starting the book and it was s
Basically, your typical Colleen Hoover aftermath.I love that Point of Retreat was told from Will's POV.
Will was plainly head over heels in love with her, consistently put her happiness first, and yet she doubted his feelings?
The jar of stars from Julia that always seemed so timely and relevant, Gavin and Eddie, the suck and sweet game, the addition of secondary characters Kiersten and Sherry, Will's slam poetry (and the slams from some surprising sources!), Will's determination not to leave Lake's side...
For that, and for my frustration with Lake at times, I shaved a half-star.
But Point of Retreat was still a phenomenal story with heart and emotion and with characters I have come to love.
Η αλήθεια είναι πως ολοκληρώνοντας την ανάγνωση του πρώτου βιβλίου δεν ήξερα τι να περιμένω από το δεύτερο αφού η Collen Hoover μας είχε δώσει ένα όμορφο και ολοκληρωμένο κλείσιμο.
H αφήγηση από την πλευρά του Will ήταν απλά φανταστική γιατί καταφέρνει να μας δώσει μια εντελώς διαφορετική σκοπιά στα πράγματα, στο πως βλέπει αυτός την σχέση τους με την Lake και την ίδια με ένα διαφορετικό και συγκινητικό τρόπο.
Το ότι αναγκάστηκαν να μεγαλώνουν τα δύο αδέρφια τους από τόσο μικρή ηλικία είναι κάτι το λυπηρό αλλά υπήρχε τόσο αγάπη, δύναμη και στοργή στην σχέση και των τεσσάρων που δεν μπορούσες να μην λατρέψεις τις αλληλεπιδράσεις τους.
I've learned something about my heart.It can break.It can be ripped apart.It can harden and freeze.It can stop. Completely.It can shatter into million of pieces.It can explode.It can die.The only thing that made it start beating again?The moment you opened your eyes. Uploaded with ImageShack.usWOW!! After reading this last night, i can still feel the emotional attachment for Will & Lake. Half of it was sweet, and half sucks (but not a bad sucks, a little lesser)♥Sucks because the emotional d
I've learned something about my heart.It can break.It can be ripped apart.It can harden and freeze.It can stop.
After reading this last night, i can still feel the emotional attachment for Will & Lake.
Half of it was sweet, and half sucks (but not a bad sucks, a little lesser)♥Sucks because the emotional drama can completely tear your heart apart.
So don't eat it ever!Sweet.
She's my fave and i want to be her new bff.
I ♥ Caulder, Kel, Eddie, Gavin & the new "mom" Shelly.
The lessons you'll get from reading outweigh all the pain & the love was undeniable true love!This book was butterflying bemazing!
Although, yes, there were those stressing and dramatic parts, but I also did get a lot of laughs in this one.
I butterflying enjoyed it!Reading this in Will's POV made us see his and Lake's relationship in a different angle.
I'm not entirely happy with Lake's reaction but once she finally explained it I realized that what they were going through was necessary for them to grew and understand their relationship even deeper and to proved that their love wasn't just brought because of their same tragic situation.
I wasn't just touched, I f*cking butterflying fell in love.
Con lei devo sempre tenere una scorta extra di fazzoletti, perché è SICURO che con lei in un modo o nell’altro saranno lacrime.
Una famiglia non tradizionale ma unita, vera, palpabile.
I ragazzi, i nonni, Kiersten e Sherry, tutti a modo loro speciali, tutti indispensabili, tutti necessari per rendere questo libro assolutamente perfetto!E ora che ho versato una miriade di lacrime, con la mia scorta di fazzoletti pari a 0, si proprio ora, chiedo a gran voce alla Fabbri di portare nel Bel Paese anche l’ultimo libro della serie…Non è che io ne senta il bisogno, no, no lo NECESSITO proprio!
I love how Lake, Will, Kel and Caulder make a family unit and how they adopt in Gavin, Eddie, Sherry and Kiersten, proof that blood doesn't always make up family.
(READ the book to find out what this means.) Lastly, I LOVE how I will never look at the word butterfly the same way again and I know that when the next time I see that word that I'm positive it will make me giggle.Well heck, I forgot to add that I really loved the creativeness of having the mother leave behind quotes for Lake and Will in the shapes of stars when they needed her advice.
Point of Retreat sucede unas semanas después de donde termina Slammed y todo va de maravilla en el romance entre Layken y Will, ellos están enamorados, Layken esta estudiando la universidad, Will esta estudiando una maestría y juntos se ayudan compartiendo la responsabilidad de criar a sus respectivos hermanos.
Cuando llega alguien a sus vidas que cuestiona su relación y hace dudar a Layken el porque realmente están juntos, por lo que Will deberá convencer a Layken de que su amor es real y que deben de estar juntos.Point of Retreat es contado desde el punto de vista de Will, lo cual me encanto ya que es un personaje lindísimo, su voz es tan real y me hizo querer al personaje aun más.
Goodreads does not have enough stars to rate this book properly. Five stars are not enough for this book. Just not enough.    “I brush her hair out of her eyes and run my finger along the edge of her face. "I love you, Lake.""Say it again," she says.I kiss her forehead and repeat what I said. "I love you, Lake.""One more time.""I." I kiss her lips. "And love." I kiss them again. "And you.""I love you, too.” Nothing is easy for Lake and Will in this book. I mean it- nothing. Firstly, there is the
"I love you, Lake.""Say it again," she says.I kiss her forehead and repeat what I said.
"I love you, Lake.""One more time.""I." I kiss her lips.
Nothing is easy for Lake and Will in this book.
Words don't mean anything to a woman when her head’s full of doubt.
Without any doubts in a good way.I loved Will Cooper.
Sometimes poetry was the only way out.
Sometimes, poetry was the only right thing.
I loved Lake.
But in this book, it were not the main characters who touched me.
I loved this book.
This book was filled with love and with hope and faith.
UGHHH SO MANY FEELS!!!
