https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10818271-the-further-adventures-of-sherlock-holmes
This is a good mystery novel, but not a consistently authentic Holmes pastiche; there are a few little nuances to the portrayal of Holmes that don't ring true.
Watson is kept in the dark throughout, although I was able to work out some of the answers to the mysteries being investigated before Holmes finally reveals them all to Watson at the end.
Not the most original Holmes pastiche I've read but a solid, well-constructed mystery with a few shortcomings that could be explained away as a difference between Boyer's vision of Holmes and mine.
This is the second book I've read that used a passing reference to "The Giant Rat of Sumatra " in one of Doyle's Sherlockian stories as a jumping off point for a pastiche of Sherlock Holmes. The book could have been worthwhile, but halfway through the tale takes a turn, reminiscent of another Doyle book, and meanders into a melodramatic ending more penny dreadful than Sherlockian. It's Boyle' s attempt at cleverness that betrays him.
Synopsis: Among all the tantalizing mysteris of Sherlock Holmes, none is more famous than the great untold story of The Giant Rat of Sumatra.
It's an interesting tale and Boyer most definitely knows his Holmes.
The characters of Holmes, Watson and Lestrade are pretty solid and I was swept along, believing it all until Dr. Watson, as narrator, started throwing way too many "my dear readers" at me.
I was interested in the mystery and enjoyed seeing how he pulled off the "giant rat." Had it not been for the "dear readers" and the final scenes, I would have unreservedly raised the rating to four stars.
Richard L.
Boyer shows great affection for his source material, with this intriguing little book, which contains many references and influences from Arthur Conan Doyle’s original tales.
Often referred to throughout, it could have been a mistake to write a story so similar to The Hound of the Baskervilles, which is probably the most well-known Sherlock Holmes story, but Boyer just about pulls it off.
However, the central mystery is very easy to work out and it’s just too obvious that the giant rat is not quite what it seems.
It is abundantly clear that Richard L.
Boyer is a Sherlock Holmes fan first and foremost.
The book maintains the tone of your classic Sherlock Holmes story making the deliberate(and wise in my opinion) choice not to mess with the formula.
Therefore we have the story told by Watson, a preface telling us that the story had been held aside until the people who were involved had passed, all played out in a tone almost indistinguishable to the Conan Doyle originals.
The story itself is well told and capture's the spirit of the originals(though perhaps it is too similar in structure to another of the better known tales).
Given that the link is deliberate though, it is a forgivable plagiarism.
Wish I could give this one a three and a half star rating.
Liked it fairly well and may well read it again in the future.
A pretty good example of the serious Holmes "pastiche" -- written with care by an award-winning mystery writer and a pretty good yarn.
There were a couple of points at which I thought, "Conan Doyle wouldn't have written THAT," but only a couple.
Dyed-in-the-wool Holmesians (or Sherlockians) will likely enjoy it as will those with only a passing knowledge of the exploits of the "world's greatest detective."
This was pretty good.
I enjoyed the pace, twists & turns.
Some of that is OK, but when the reader is kept in the dark to that extent, I think the author didn't quite do his job.This story involes a mysterious ship lying at the London docks with a terrifying beast caged in the hold; a night of fire and terror & a dead sailor who was on his way to consult with Holmes; a beautiful young woman abducted and held for ransom; and Watson captured by a madman with Holmes powerless to help.
Better than most other Sherlockian pastches, definitely the best one involving "THE" giant rat of Sumatra, involving the second-most nefarious (and definitely most dangerous, but out-of-London, keeping Sebastian Moran's place intact) villain in Sherlockiana. Recommended for its Victorian settings, gothic scenes, flawless language (you almost believe that this is actually one of Doyle's better efforts) and action-packed climax.
Ich hatte keine allzu hohen Erwartungen an dieses Buch, da es kein "originaler" Holmes ist, wurde allerdings eines Besseren belehrt. Die Geschichte von der Risenratte aus Sumatra war sehr spannend und wich im Stil nicht viel von den "originalen" Geschichten ab.Die Dialoge zwischen Watson und Holmes waren mein Highlight.
I could hardly put it down! An intense, fast paced, compelling read, full of plot twists, challenges, and puzzles worthy of Conan Doyle himself! I highly recommend it!
Two stories intertwine: the kidnapping of a wealthy couple's daughter while she was traveling in Bombay; and the murder of a sailor evidently on his way to visit Holmes.
The tale is in the main well-told, but the climax is so drawn-out as to become Gothic, with a touch of Hardy Boys as the villain explains to captive Watson and Holmes his methods and motives - knowing they will soon be dead, able to tell no one.
The creature, too monstrous for Conan Doyle to weave a story around, is indeed horrible - huge, lethal, crazed.
Some background for the non-initiated: the original novels and short stories written about Sherlock Holmes by his creator, Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, are typically referred to as " The Canon." Holmes is arguably one of the most, if not the most, popular fictional characters in all of literature.
One such case that Watson mentions in passing is (you guessed it) The Giant Rat of Sumatra.
I really enjoyed Boyer's novel-he does a good job of writing both Holmes and Watson, and for those of us who love these characters that is half the battle won.
Of course attempting to carry on the stories of the legendary Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle is no mean feat, I feel that this particular book came nowhere near to paying homage to him.
The Giant Rat of Sumatra was written along the lines of the Hound Of Baskerville a bit, and maybe that's why it turned a bit dreary.
Two irrelevant mysteries: The mysterious giant rat and the abduction of Alice Allistair were brought at crossroads, and the common link to them was very disappointing.
I've read some other Further Adventures of Sherlock Holmes before and this was I feel not up to the mark.
Großartig!Ich habe nur einen kleinen Kritikpunkt, nämlich dass dieser Fall sich eigentlich vor der gemeinsamen Zeit von Sherlock und Watson ereignete. Das hat der Geschichte aber keinen Abbruh getan, eher im Gegenteil!Ich freue mich schon auf den nächsten Band!
I am not sure why I continue to read stories about Sherlock Holmes! This is not a bad take on Conan Doyle's style but sadly I did not find the story satisfying.
A full four. Very enjoyable with detailed plot logically made clear in the end.
I look on these books as a homage to the pulp radio series of the 40s staring Rathbone and Bruce - great fun and it’s always good to have the company of Holmes and Watson on dark winter evenings.
One of the better Holmes pastiches I've read
"Aku seorang amatir dibidang zoologi, tetapi aku juga tahu bahwa dikepulauan Jawa.adadua species yang unik: yang satu adalah badak, sedangkan yang lain adalah cecak raksasa yang dinamakan komodo. Memang bukannya tidak mungkin, tuan-tuan bahwa pedalaman dari salah satu pulau tadi menyembunyikan salah satu ras dari bintang mengerat raksasa?"Dan ternyata yang dimaksud tikus adalah binatang.......(baca ya)Menemulan buku ini di lapak ol. Karena kata Sumatra yang membuat buku ini maauk dalam keranjang belanja. Lumayan juga untuk mempromosikan negara kita. Walau mungkin dlm hal.yang agak menyeramkan dgn adanya hewan yg menakutkan.
(This review is an excerpt from the review of the same book which appears in my blog The Malaysian Reader.)The novel opens with Sherlock Holmes and Dr. Watson rushing to a site where a man has been found murdered (and what made the pair rushed to the place without being summoned by Scotland Yard is due to a brilliant piece of deduction of Holmes’ that would make Conan Doyle nod at Boyer with approval).
The giant rat which was brought on board the ship off the coast of Sumatra by three people who paid their way onto the ship as passengers, was kept a secret but the dead man discovered the truth and confided to his friend who now confides it to Holmes and Watson.
an absolute masterpiece and one I think that even Arthur conan doyle would have been proud to write and it answers so many questions from both the Hound of The Baskervilles and also that tantalising bit in one of the Holmes stories with regards to the Giant Rat of Sumatra. This is definitely a tale worthy of the Sherlock Holmes stories. A definite must read for avid fans of Sherlock Holmes stories and love the idea of john Watson producing these stories after the events.
The Giant Rat of Sumatra is a Sherlock Holmes story by Richard L Boyer.
As the title suggests the mystery that Watson and Holmes investigate is exotic, but refreshingly unlike modern detective stories it is not a murder (though murder is involved).I think Boyer has reproduced the character of Dr Watson correctly but I think his Sherlock Holmes is not quite right, but probably less of a deviation than some film and TV portrayals.
He has borrowed ideas from some of the original stories, partly I think, to provide familiarity.
A 1976 Sherlock Holmes pastiche by Rick Boyer, who would go on to write the Doc Adams series of thrillers.
There is no accounting for taste, and you may love or hate this effort, depending on your tolerence for Sherlockiana.Sherlock Holmes pastiche - Dr. Watson arranged for the publication of this tale to take place after all the people named has deceased.
Holmes and Watson are drawn to the murder of a seaman, who had been trying to reach them with a tale os a giant rat.
Holmes looks into the strange tale of a clergyman and his companions taking passage from Batavia to London.
Bravo! Very nicely done. And really, can't we assume that these days the Tale of the Giant Rat of Sumatra will cause no loss of sleep in even the gentlest of readers? So lead on, Watson, do tell all! ;)Apparently, this is part of a series (The Further Adventures of Sherlock Holmes) from the '70s which which I am unfamiliar. The book-length tales are written by various authors, but if they are all of the caliber of this one, it warrants further investigation. This appears to be a recent reprint, so the game is afoot. What ho, Powells!
I'm not normally a fan of authors writing continuations of another author's characters, but I'm willing to make an exception for Sherlock Holmes - especially since it dealt with this case that is only ever referred to by Conan Doyle. The story was enjoyable and felt pretty true to Conan Doyle. There seems to be a series of these 'Further Adventures of Sherlock Holmes' books by different authors, I hope the rest of them live up to this one.
A bit of a stretch to say that this tale was so frightening and disturbing that Watson only hinted at it and never published a full account. The story is a good story and again we have a character thought dead returning to seek revenge upon Holmes and Watson. But there is little real terror. Another in the long running series of modern authors plugging in Holmes tales that is overall well done but not spectacular.
So-so. Like most pastiches of average quality, it relies heavily on Doyle's own earlier stories. The Victorian flavor of the story isn't bad at all, but it decidedly lacks spice. And while Holmes' characterization isn't terrible, it's very hard to imagine him saying (in Doyle's hands) anything like, "we mustn't be late for the garden party," or "How about a game of croquet?"Nope!Not the worst I've read by far. But not fun, and a good SH always provides that.
If you're looking for a Sherlock Holmes novel written in the style of Arthur Conan Doyle, then this is your book! It's a good read,an exciting read. I would point out that you need to have read some of the original stories to appreciate this book completely. I don't do spoilers, so I can't tell you which one. You'll know once you get into the story. Three cheers for Richard L. Boyer for a job well done.
I am the sort of person who tries to deduce what is going to happen before it happens and to my utter delight this book took me by surprise (that doesn't happen as often as you would think). Holmes and Watson's relationship is captured wonderfully yet he also captures them as individuals perfectly. The writing kept me totally immersed in the story, definitely one of my utter favourite stories outside of the originals, I can't wait to see what else he has witten
Bravo! A good fast read! now i am hooked. This was such a great, easy and creative book. i was hooked after the first page. The characters were easy to fall in love with and follow, along with the story. the author made the mental visions so easy and vivid of the surroundings and the characters actions felt so real.i would highly recommend this author and this book.
