https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10339042-princess-knight-vol-1
Perhaps the most important thing I can say about Princess Knight is that it was written in the 50s.
This will explain pretty much everything about the story, from the tone to the art style to the casual sexism.
The latter is impossible to escape: Sapphire has both a boy's heart and a girl's heart.
It's the boy's heart that makes her good at fencing, not years of practice.
Remove her boy's heart and she will instantly become weak and unable to fence.
Naturally.
But still probably fair for its day.
The illustrations are pretty heavily influenced by Disney.But despite the very traditional assumptions about gender, this is probably still too edgy to get made into a Disney movie. Pretty sad, when you think about it.
For a manga to dare to say that a woman not only could do actions typically associated with men, but that she SHOULD do them...
well, it's pretty daring and that's part of the reason I love Tezuka so much- he's not afraid to take chances when it comes to political and social messages.
I will admit that the jumps between chapters can be pretty abrupt, which pushes me out of the story a little, but otherwise it's very good.
The book is fairly clean.
By today's standards it's squeaky clean.Overall this is well worth buying for any Tezuka fan or for anyone who just likes a good story.
The only characters that don't look too obviously "Disney" are the mains- Prince/ss Sapphire, Franz Charming (really?
What makes it so obvious is that Tezuka's main protagonists all have manga features and his supporting characters- those that are heavily influenced by other sources- don't.
You could get the same result simply by cutting out manga characters and pasting them into a Disney comic.The story line itself is a mishmash of events, which is somewhat understandable given that Princess Knight was originally serialized, and it certainly shows.
For what it is, a somewhat charming fantasy tale about princes and princesses and witches and knights, it's probably great entertainment for children.
It feels like Tezuka was trying to say something (fairly revolutionary for the time) about a woman's strength if she had a 'boys' heart.
I wouldn't recommend this to most people, Tezuka has far, far better titles.
Some things I noticed about the first part of this tale that struck me as odd:God is a bit of a jerk, trying to take Sapphire's boy heart only at times when it could get her killed.
I would like to see Sapphire team up with Helcate and fall in love with the roguish Blood.
Did Tezuka not know how to draw swan legs??
I wanted to read a manga by Osamu Tezuka.
I've never been one for fairy tales and this is definitely a fairy tale story.I had read quite a bit about Osamu Tezuka being the father of manga and that he is looked on in Japan as Walt Disney is here.
To be fair, if I had never seen a Walt Disney cartoon and then I saw one today, I would probably be saying - 2 stars.
It would have been best to have reviewed this at a younger age but even then that might not have prompted more stars.
This book reads like a Disney Princess movie written by the people at Mad Magazine.
Super sexist. The main character has two hearts, on male, one female. When her male heart is removed she becomes weak and scared. Total bullshit. There's also so weird Christianity thrown into the mix. Not my kind of read at all.
If there is one criticism that can be directed toward Tezuka's work in general it is that even the best of them are sexist.
It sets out to combat sexism but ends up being one of the author's most sexist works.
The protagonist of this work is the biologically female Princess Saphire who has in addition to a female heart a male one as well, which is, in this story world, the ONLY reason she has strength and can do masculine activities such as fencing.
One could give it to a child they are more aware of the issue of sexism than previous generations children have been.
It borrows from a lot of old stories (some swan lake, some Shakespeare, etc.), and while it might work at a slower pace, the way the story moves right now seems like a crazy mish-mash.
Then the angel takes her "boy's heart" away from her, and she suddenly sucks.
This flat out says, "You can't be bad ass unless you're a boy.
She was only bad ass because she had a boy's heart." But I have to wonder...
After all that training in fencing, and not physically changing (it's not like she lost muscle mass or anything) when the heart was taken, why would she all of a sudden suck so hard?
Princess Knight is a delightful, cute, and hilarious manga adventure, swashbuckler, and fairy tale.
A mischievous little angel named Tink gets out of his lane and feeds a cherubic child a blue heart to make it a boy.
Without knowing what Tink has done an elderly angel who has the official duty of feeding hearts to the cherubic children before they're sent down to earth to be born, gives the child a red heart to make it a girl.
Later Princess Sapphire is born who ingested the two hearts.
This was a refreshing read, and the first humorous graphic novel I've ever read.
دائما رغم الليل نور يسطع مثل الفتى ياقوتلا يرهب الأشرار و لا يهاب الموتفأشجع الفتيان في سالف الزمانذاك الذي يهوى حرية الإنسانمثل الفتى ياقوت لا يرهب الأشرارAs a kid I used to watch this with mom, I remember liking that a girl can be this strong... though I always wondered why she must masquerade as a boy to do so, so happy I found these manga volumes!
I know this was old school but i could not understand why having her boy's heart pulled out suddenly made her weak.
But with the reading of it, It looked like removing her boy heart made her suddenly loose all the skills she normally has.
(view spoiler)[ the pirate figured it out in like two seconds (hide spoiler)]Alright i get that it needs to be a plot point so i won't dwell on it, but can someone tell me why no one noticed the fact the swan has human legs?
I'll probably read the second volume since I want to know how the story ends.
And I really don't take leap of faiths with anime and manga very often.
But I guess the primary reason why I picked it up was because Princess Knight is one of the first shoujo ("girl") manga and, without Princess Knight, my favorite anime probably wouldn't have existed (Shoujo Kakumei Utena/Revolutionary Girl Utena, btw).
Read the manga and you'll see what I mean.
I loved the characters, especially Sapphire and Hecate.
I loved the small commentaries on feminism, stereotypes...I'm glad that I got this manga.
The story follows the life and times of Princess Sapphire, the only daughter of the kings of Silverland.
By chance and fate she is born with two hearts, inside of her: that of sweet girl and that of brave prince.
Since the country bans female heirs, she is raised as both as a boy and girl by her parents (much to their chagrin of her mom) for keeping the throne from some nasty relatives.
Sapphire accepts her fate but questions the misogyny of her kingdom and dreams of living freely as a girl.
The story is simple, but engaging, and very well paced.
That said, this is Osamu Tezuka's work, where he is essentially creating the road map for literally all of the future works created in the shoujo genre.
Stylistically, it can be compared to a lot of early Disney films, right down the summoning and control over various forest creatures and the dragon that Tezuka took straight from 'Sleeping Beauty!' That said, there's also a whole lot of Christian themes, more so than the usual manga.
Gonna wait until the ending to get the whole story straight, but for now, it's worth reading if you're a fan of Tezuka, vintage manga or if you're just curious how manga looked waaaaay back when!
I'm glad that Osamu Tezuka's manga has been put back-into-print...this is one of his many, many series I've always been meaning to read because I know that many modern manga and anime series (including the cult-classic "Revolutionary Girl Utena") have been influenced by this manga.
This is classic manga at its best...modern anime/manga fans would probably throw the book aside for its simplicity (art and plot), but it has a hidden depth that older fans like me can appreciate.
I am truly glad someone has brought it back into the American print runs.

A prince born with a "girl heart" and a "boy heart" with adversaries trying to prove that he is really a girl... I was optimistic about this story approaching gender in an...enlightened way... but it ended up reinforcing gender essentialism in a weird way, not to mention erasing the prince's gender identity... By the bad writing (bad translation?) its clear its for kids but that's no reason for the prince to, say, lose his ability to fight when his "girl heart" is taken away. Smh.
When I picked this up at the library I didn't realize it was really old school manga, so the sexism surprised me. It's pretty much sexist throughout, most often with Sapphire becoming weak and cowardly if she loses the strength of her "boy heart." Since this is a romance/action/adventure soap opera, there are endless plot digressions that keeps dragging the story out. I lost patience.
Well, I can see why this story was influential in its own time and how it still is an interesting historical document, but for me it was just too much 50-ies misogyny and gender stereotypes to be enjoyable.
Unfortunately, Tezuka is a product of his time, and this work reflects it. The only reason Sapphire is able to do anything is because of her boy heart. Girls are useless and weak amirite?
Ce manga a été écrit dans les années '50 et je comprends l'importance qu'il a pu avoir d'un point de vue historique. D'un point de vue "entertainment", il ne m'a pas plu du tout.
Originally serialized in Japan, this is considered the first modern work of the shojo manga genre.
But the plot flows well with each chapter/episode containing an adventure, as the story progresses.This almost works as an empowered heroine story, except for one element.
What keeps this from being a feminist story, however, is that on the few occasions that she loses her boy heart, she also loses those attributes.There’s a duke whose idiot son is next in line to the throne trying to expose the truth, with the help of a clever and devious man.
Still, it’s worth reading for shojo manga fans.
I have to agree with other reviewers in saying that the Disney influence is so strong there isn't much difference to be found beyond the dated and dull gender shenanigans. There are a few decent visual gags but the story drags along carried on the back of one misunderstanding after another. Tink seems to be the only character afforded development and Captain Blood does make for a bright spot towards the end but I'm still not sure I'll read the second for any reason besides that I'm resolute completionist.
Osamu Tezuka  is heralded by many otaku (obsessed anime/manga fans) as the "father of manga" & the "grandfather of anime". It is difficult to be a fan & NOT know who he is. Quite a number have read & watched his amazing creations. He is a world renowned manga-ka to say the least.I mention this not to inform you, but rather to explain about THIS manga: Princess Knight, Part One (AKA Ribon no Kishi). As you might have guessed, I am a huge fan of manga & anime (although I do not th
At first, it was just the anime (& if you're curious on my personal opinion regarding the NA/DiC version, please im me and I will give you a soapbox worth of outrage ;D ), but soon I became curious and wanted to know more about the original (ie the manga Sailor Moon, Vol. 1).
If you are a fan of Osamu Tezuka, manga or shoujo fan, you really should read this.
I am sure most of ya'll are not fans of this amazing book Captain Blood or movie by the same name, starring Errol Flynn.
A bit too much of a Classic Disney influence happening for my liking, though the original publication date fits with said influence being appropriate/appreciated by the intended audience.
In fact, it was one of my main motives for reading this series; I was curious and interested in seeing what older manga would be like.
Sapphire and a few of the other main characters had designs similar to modern manga, but all other characters were very Western.
The evil witch’s dragon form reminded of Maleficent and then you also had various other references from other Western influences such as Swan Lake, Greek mythology, and just the general art style.
If I go into a story knowing that it is of the fairy tale type I do not mind if there is not much depth to the characters.
The small angel cannot return to Heaven unless he brings back her boy heart, but in the meantime Tink must protect Sapphire from the evil sorceress Madame Hell, who wants the prince’s girl heart for her daughter Hecate.This was one of the first manga written specifically for the shoujo (girls’) market under the title of Ribon no Kishi (The Ribbon Knight) in 1953.
“You can return home–or sacrifice that forever to save Sapphire’s life.” It’s a children’s series, but perhaps it is best read together to discuss some of the themes.Oh, and Prince Franz is a bit of a dunderhead who does not figure out that Sapphire and the blonde girl he loves are the same person despite learning fairly early on that Sapphire is physically female and having multiple clues.
Agree that it has come to be Disney like. Still relevant regarding gender norms and identity.
