https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15717876-the-secret-of-ella-and-micha
So I’m goin’ to go on the record and say that I didn’t give Jessica Sorensen five stars for this book.She took them from me.She took them from me with her absurdly beautiful story, with her heart-arresting characters, and with her words that belong in a jewelry box somewhere. This author is fucking kickass.And that’s all there is to say, really._____________________________________ They grew up together, you know.Ella and Micha, I mean.With nothing but a fence that begged to be jumped over betw
They grew up together, you know.Ella and Micha, I mean.With nothing but a fence that begged to be jumped over between their two houses, these two were inseparable.She was a wild child, and he was the boy with the wild smile.Then suddenly jean-clad races against childhood turned into car races against asphalt.Secrets whispered into ears became confessions whispered into each other’s mouths.Bedroom windows were left open and front doors became locked.
"It was one of the things that made me fall in love with her; the fire, passion, and the need to stick up for the outcasts, even if it meant being an outcast herself."   When Ella ran a away from home eigth months ago, she ran away because she wanted to forget. Forget about the past and everything that happened in the town she grew up in. But when she returns home from college, the walls she tried to built up around her heart slowly begin to fall apart when she's reunited with her best friend
When Ella ran a away from home eigth months ago, she ran away because she wanted to forget.
But when she returns home from college, the walls she tried to built up around her heart slowly begin to fall apart when she's reunited with her best friend Micha.
So, when Ella returns home as a new person, Micha is determined to bring the old Ella, the one he fell in love with, back.
Sure, he's had his share of flings and hook-ups, but no other girl has ever been able to make him feel the way Ella does.
YA Goodness!!This is the first full-length book of the Ella and Micha saga. I enjoyed the novella so much and totally fell in love with these two love birds. I am enjoying taking their journey with them. Childhood best friends, Micha fell in love with her at age fifteen and has been waiting three years for Ella to catch up.  She challenges me, pushes me, and pisses me off, but I wouldn’t have it any other way. I don’t want to give any of the storyline away, but suffice it to say, this one kept m
YA Goodness!!This is the first full-length book of the Ella and Micha saga.
I enjoyed the novella so much and totally fell in love with these two love birds.
I am enjoying taking their journey with them.
Childhood best friends, Micha fell in love with her at age fifteen and has been waiting three years for Ella to catch up.
Talk about a s.l.o.w. b.u.r.n., but worth the wait.
I am anticipating trouble ahead for this couple, so I am excited to read the next installment!
I love tension and angst in my romance reads ;)
I felt like I knew just enough about them to connect me to them and to make me care but there was just enough that I didn’t know about them to keep up the mystery and the intrigue.This book surprised me a lot – for some reason, this wasn’t the plot I was expecting but I really enjoyed the read.Ella has pretty serious intimacy issues that stemmed from when she was a child – coming from a broken home, with a bi polar mother, a drunk father and an absentee brother… that kind of childhood would be bound to mark anyone.But she had Micha who was just *swoon* a gorgeous character.
The scream that shatters my mouth could shatter the world's happiness into a thousand pieces. But the silence that follows it is enough to dissolve it completely.  3.5 stars. With a review opener like that, you'd think I was about to delve right into talking about how crazy this book was, or how shocking the secret was. Picture me doing that noise when you've hit a whammy...that wauh, wauh, wauh, noise. This book had a few secrets, but nothing really smacked me in the face. However, I did enjo
I would have preferred to have seen less cliches (constant references to eye color and smells, bad boy that's used everyone girl in his path while he only truly wants the one girl who's always evaded him, etc.), over-used romance terms (coming apart, ripples deep inside my core, etc.), and music references which will date the story in a few years - this was still a good effort for a first-in-a-series book.
I'm honestly unsure why Ella and Micha wasn't a standalone book instead of a series, but since I was entertained by this couple, I'll go along for the ride and see where things take me.Overall, the steam factor was decent for a New Adult, and the romance was engaging.
Ever wondered what would life be like if you could run away and be someone else? Go to a place where no one knows you and have a brand new beginning?? Who would you be then?? Ever thought about it??  But is it really that easy to leave your past behind? Is it possible to be ever completely free from it?? To forget everything about it and those who were in it??? Meet Ella May Daniels, a girl who tried to run away from her past, who thought she could leave everything and everyone behind and becom
Meet Ella May Daniels, a girl who tried to run away from her past, who thought she could leave everything and everyone behind and become someone in control of her fate.
And after that night her life changes, something shatters inside her, maybe her soul.......And so she runs, tries to outrun her past, the people in it, everyone and everything......becomes someone unrecognisable, someone in control of her passions, someone who only appeared happy but never was, someone who lied, someone who pretended, someone who was 
3 1/2 to 4 Stars Overall, I enjoyed reading this book. The heroine's martyr-ism drove me crazy at time, but the awesomeness of the hero more than made up for it. Jessica Sorensen has a talent for emo storytelling that's as hopeful and sweet as it is depressing. There's a sequel but the "happy for now ending" left me more than satisfied. If you enjoy the new adult genre and don't mind an overabundance of angst and drama that surprisingly will also put a smile on your face while making you swoon, then I definitely recommend this book.
" We've been friends since we were kids..." "...it’s just me and her against the world..." " But life changes, people change..." Still..."He's been looking for you for past eight months.""I don't care what you say this boy is in love with you." "Micha saw too much of me and it scared me to let him all the way in..." [image error]But in the end..."when I thought I'd lost him it opened my heart and freed what I'd buried deep inside me..." "They'll never really know what it took to get here. How ma
" We've been friends since we were kids..."
"...it’s just me and her against the world..."
" But life changes, people change..."
Still..."He's been looking for you for past eight months.""I don't care what you say this boy is in love with you."
"Micha saw too much of me and it scared me to let him all the way in..."
[image error]But in the end..."when I thought I'd lost him it opened my heart and freed what I'd buried deep inside me..."
"They'll never really know what it took to get here.
It's a secret between us."
You can push me away—run away—and I will still love you.”This is such a sweet ‘new adult’ style romance between two friends, Ella and Micha, who have known each other forever, growing up together.
Micha has his own demons to contend with but, despite growing up on the wrong side of the tracks, he’s incredibly mature and grounded and decides to hide these from Ella.
He’s confident he can rekindle the flame and bring the old Ella back.They’re so sweet together – they complete each other.
The Secret of Ella and Micha was a romance full of SMOKING hot chemistry from years of pent up attraction.
She doesn’t even tell her best friend, Micha, she just picks up and leaves.
”I love you, Ella May and nothing will ever change that.
I love this type of romance where the characters have a history and know details about each other that only comes from time spent together.
By the time Ella comes back, the feelings they have for each other have built up so much they’re about to explode!
It was mentioned about three times in the whole book I guess, and I felt like the author was ticking it off a list, you know, like, "Okay, I need to tell the reader about her terrible past - check; etc.".
She was really annoying with all her questions and being all naive and stuff, and the author's attempts (near the ending) to make her seem "flawed but lovely" only made it worse.
It feels like the author just needed the story to put some space between those scenes, seriously.Don't let me start about the ending.
“There’s a darkness inside my chest, like the devil hidden inside me is about to make a grand appearance.”  This is the story of two young people, Micha and Ella, inseparable since childhood, daredevils at heart, ‘soul mates’ from the get go. One tragic event in Ella’s life changes everything - she loses herself in her pain, drowning in guilt and regret, and she does the only thing she can think of before her mind shatters completely - she runs away. She runs away from everything and everyone
Micha and Ella’s friendship gradually blossoms into deep romantic feelings for each other, but while Micha embraces them wholeheartedly, Ella fights them with all she’s got, struggling to admit to herself that she is in love with her best friend.
Theirs is a story of friends becoming lovers, of allowing love into your heart even when feelings are the last thing you want to allow under your defensive cape.
We love Ella because she is a broken soul who is so scared of losing control and becoming like her mother that she was willing to give up on the greatest happiness that she had ever known in her life.
Seriously!In fact they should read about 100 books in the same genre before coming up with a new story because they tend to do the same mistakes (and maybe they could learn from the others) and these stories tend to blend in with each other so that it would be funny if it weren't so annoying - really, there always seem to be two characters with broken lives (a tragedy in one's life is a must) that can't possibly be together for no apparent reason (even though they like each other), but then all of the sudden they have sex and then simply makeup.
I read this in one sitting, really enjoyed it!
"Micha, this is who I have to be otherwise I can't breathe.
Please just leave it alone.
That dame fire might exist, but I want it gone." I spin my back to him, praying he'll listen to me for once, because if he keeps it up, sooner or later I won't be able to resist.
But Micha has never backed down on a challenge in his life." The Secret of Ella and Micha was a beautiful and touching read about forgiveness, moving on, and love.
About a girl who lost herself on the way of grief and blame, and a b
The Secret of Ella and Micha was a beautiful and touching read about forgiveness, moving on, and love.
What was the most beautiful thing about this book was the relationship between Ella and Micha.
I'll leave you off with one of Micha's songs for Ella...
Ella, Micha, Lila and Ethan were all great characters.
So aside from the cover-which is screaming to be read, I found myself really enjoying this ride.Ella and Micha were best friends for a very long time.
Always has been.”-MichaI loved reading this book from Micha's POV.
But once her words were out there, I felt better and less inclined to smack a bitch up, which was good though because I really liked Ella.I loved Ethan and Lila.
Also, it's a little quicker than I would have liked so hopefully the sequel is longer because I want more Ella and Micha.
I onda mi je prije kojih tjedan dana moja sekica poslala poruku u kojoj mi oduševljeno objašnjava kako je knjiga super i da je moram što prije pročitati.
Pošto je knjiga koju sam tada čitala bila totalni fijasko, trebalo mi je nešto u što sam vjerovala da će mi biti dobro i brzo štovo da mi se mozak oporavi, a tko to bolje zna nego moja draga Lea, i tako sam ju uzela u ruke.
Zanimljiva je i brzo se čita, a tema je koja opušta mozak iako bi trebala biti malo teška zbog oca koji stalno loče i majke koja se ubila.
A great read.
Made me a little emotional at times, but I really liked it.
Ella and Micha have been best friends for a long time.
Something huge happens in Ella's life and for the last 8 months she has essentially changed most things about her; her look attitude etc.
Not only that, but no one really knows where she is including Micha.
When she finally comes home from school after this 8 months we meet Micha -swoon...
and holy hell that lip ring ;) Loved how their story came together and I really just adored Micha.
Honestly, this book oozes angst, and while I know there are many readers who enjoy just that (proven by the very fact that this book is a New York Times bestseller), I’m not a fan myself.
In a way, I’m glad neither Ella nor Micha resolved their family situations in the end.
Although I’m not in the habit of punishing books (or authors) for things that are entirely the publisher’s fault, I feel I have to point out that The Secret of Ella and Micha is chock full of editing issues.
Clearly every successful book gives birth to a trilogy these days, and that is the case with The Secrets of Ella and Micha.
He looks and acts like a bad boy, but he is actually a very gentle soul.
Yes, he have done some serious sleeping around back in a day and yes, he does illegal street car racing.
Plus, he is very sweet and gentle with Ella, that's why I forgive him :).Meet his baby, Chevy Chevelle.
He and Ella have had some hot make out sessions in this car, on every surface of it!
(Ella, you lucky bitch!).This book reminded me a lot of Fast Furious, a lot of action, but had some tender scenes in between the races.
Very sweet, sexy and heartbreaking story of Micha and Ella.
I definitely enjoyed this book even though it was kinda slow and the “shocking” things that happened towards the end were really predictable! But it was still a cute and quick read!
I dove into this story the night it started popping up on GR, and my heart is still racing from the chemistry between these characters!!
Secret is a heart-wrenching, captivating, sexy thrill ride of a romance story that grips you to the last page, and I just LOVED it!First of I am head-over-heels for Micah!!!
But Micah slowly starts to pull the real Ella out-not necessarily the same reckless, immature girl that left town, but certainly not the stuck-up student that came home for the summer!The more Ella tries to deny her feelings for Micah, the more he pushes her to admit they were meant for each other.
That damn fire might exist, but i want it gone." Favorite Character - ElleThey don't know my head is a messNo, they don't know who I really amAnd they don't know what I've been through like you doAnd I was made for you...Oh god i LOVED this book.
It was heartbreaking at times reading how Elle felt, so truly moving.
Elle was such a brilliantly complex character who i couldn't help but love as soon as i was introduced to her.
I felt consumed by Elle & Micha's emotions.
Yep, totally needed one of these ^^ when I was done reading this book! What an incredibly, beautifully written story. It was one I had NO intentions of reading this weekend, and I am so glad I picked it up this morning at the insistance of the TBBB! :o) (Thanks, girls!) I can't believe I wasn't going to read this one over some stupid hang up I have over upside-down kisses like in the Spiderman Movie. Dumb! Yep, took one look at the cover and said...Nope! Big mistake! So glad I read it. Ella's l
:o) (Thanks, girls!) I can't believe I wasn't going to read this one over some stupid hang up I have over upside-down kisses like in the Spiderman Movie.
So glad I read it.
One day, after an unexpected kiss exchanged between the childhood best friends, Ella packs up and leaves town without telling anyone where she's going, especially Micha.
Eight long months go by and she finds herself heading home for summer break to where all the tragedy in her life has occurred, and Micha.
I felt like an adrenaline junkie, sittin' in that Chevelle, barreling down the back road with Ella and Micha.
Ella and Micha are just the cutest!!
I love how much he loves and cares for her, its heart warming.They way the author talks about Ella's eyes!
WOAH (y)And Micha's lip piercing, holy hell I want to suck on it too.The sexual tension of the book is AMAZING..
I was literally yelling 'DO HIM ELLA' at my laptop screen heheheSome reviews have compared this book to Pushing the Limits, NOPE, Sorry..
It so isn't like that.
PtL has a thousand more emotions and its heart breaking to read.
While this isn't in that league.
Finally a good book!Oh how I loved this book.
It is a young adult book about a boy and a girl who have know each other forever...
and discover each other again.
What a ride!
They both have battle scars.
Ella has been dealing with the loss of her mother.
Micha is dealing with his father's abandonment.
Ella wants to run from everyone and everything she has ever know and start over.
There is just one problem, Micha is not ready to let her go.
Oh how I love a bad boy.
Add in a wonderful lip ring that he likes to play with and I'm swooning.
As GD would say, I liked it. It wasn't ok, and I didn't really like it. I just liked it, as one does an average chocolate because you can't eat the imported ones every day. And I'm going to read the next one because who can deny chocolate? Even if it's milk chocolate that's been kept in the refrigerator for more than an hour.
One of the first NA books I read. I refuse to re-read it because I'm terrified that everything will seem tropey now. I'm letting the magic of the past stay where it is.
REACTION AFTER READING THE BOOK:I had to calm myself down before I was able to make a review for this book.It got me so hyped, absorbed and addicted.Micha got me wild and sooo ready toooo… do something dirty DANCE! RAWWRRRRR!If you are ready to read about some steamy unbelievably sexy scenes like this [image error]GIFSoupThen I recommend you get your hands on this unbelievably sexually stimulating book!Okay so let’s get down to the review. THE GIST:Ella has always had this wild streak in her. Th
But Micha was not convinced.He wants her Ella back and he was going to do everything he can to make sure it happens.FIRST IMPRESSIONSI have always been a sucker for pretty covers.
Another thing I’d like to emphasize, Micha is just HOT AS HELL with all that singing of his with a ring on his lip.
:pMICHA + ELLA = JAM-PACKED WITH SEXUAL TENSIONI love Micha and Ella to death but as I was reading this book I wanted to smack Ella in the head the whole time.
so if you’re not ready to read something like that please don’t pick this book up because it is full of it.
Release Date:  February 12, 2013 Genre:  New Adult RomanceI have had this book sitting on my kindle since it was published and haven't gotten around to reading it until now.
Both characters- Ella and Micha- have some flaws though and things from their past that continue to haunt them in the present so the build up to the romance is pretty angsty.
If you like new adult romances, this is one of the popular ones that many readers rave about so I would recommend it.
Perfect for Fans of - New Adult Romance- College Romance- Friends to Lovers Romance- Angsty Romances- Romances that have characters with flaws and issues dealing with their pasts.
