https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41637836-the-subtle-knife
(A-) 81% | Very GoodNotes: Changes direction from the last book, expanding the mythology and affirming religion as the key theme of the series.
I wrote a review criticising the fact that the novel felt awkward; it had no beginning or end: it just felt like the typical content you’d find in the middle of the story.
This book seemed to be a mere set-up for the next instalment, which makes it rather difficult to review; it’s like picking out the middle bit of a story and trying to criticise it as a separate entity from the rest of it: it’s not easy to do.
So I’m going to read the third book before I speak any more about this- I need to see where these elements Pullman added go to.
Instead of the good stuff, in The Subtle Knife I feel as though we've had a bait and switch pulled on us.In The Golden Compass, we were treated to a rich alternate universe that had elements that were similar to our own, like some of the geopolitical structure, and elements that were entirely fantastical, like armored polar bears and witches.
I love plots that put a spin on traditional religion (Waiting for the Galactic Bus, for example), but it seems like Pullman came up with a story involving a culture's religion and then decided to make it fit with the Judeo-Christian framework no matter how hard he had to push.The concept of Dust is interesting.
“Every little increase in human freedom has been fought over ferociously between those who want us to know more and be wiser and stronger, and those who want us to obey and be humble and submit.”
The Subtle Knife (His Dark Materials, #2), Philip Pullman The Subtle Knife, the second book in the His Dark Materials series, is a young-adult fantasy novel written by Philip Pullman and published in 1997.
The novel continues the adventures of Lyra Belacqua as she investigates the mysterious Dust phenomenon and searches for her father.
پسری به نام: «ویل»، که مادری عصبی دارد، به دنبال پدرش، «جان پری»، از پنجره‌ ای درون هوا می‌گذرد، و به «چیتاگاتزه» وارد می‌شود.
«لی اسکورسبی» هوانورد، «جان پری»، یا «استانیسلاوس گرومن» را، از میان تاتارها برده، و خود کشته می‌شود و رخدادهای دیگر...؛ ا.
Esta vez el centro de la historia, al parecer, es la búsqueda del padre de Will, pero una vez mas Pullman nos muestra que su trama es mas complicada de lo que aparenta ser.
Lord Asriel esta formando y comandando un ejercito como nunca antes se ha visto, con seres y guerreros de todos los mundos, pero ¿A que se enfrenta?
Lo que no me gusto, fue ese final porque te deja en suspenso, pero esto tiene su punto bueno, hace que quieras leer la continuación de inmediato, y es lo que hay que hacer para conocer el desenlace de la historia.
like at times it takes away from the actual story with its intensity.
I absolutely love when books can mess around with theoretical physics or philosophy, so there were still some aspects I had fun with.
The way the knife can cut between worlds is SO COOL - I love how so many of the ideas are explained.
It feels like a bridge between two books instead of a story in its own right.
So I guess The Golden Compass is a favorite, but the sequels do way too many bizarre things with religion in such a cynical manner that it's hard for me to have the same level of enthusiasm.
I share this review again in the fall of 2017 as a fourth volume (though Pullman later wrote two companion pieces to the trilogy, entitled Lyra's Oxford, and Once Upon a Time in the North), The Book of Dust, has been released, to encourage all ages to read.
But you don't need to know any of that to love this series.This is the middle book in the trilogy, and I like the first and third volumes more, big surprise.
One key surprise is that after focusing on Lyra in the first series, this second book opens with a focus on yet another central character, Will.
Mmmmk. So I rated this 2.5 stars when I read it a few months ago, and I was unsure if I would finish the series... I've since decided I won't be reading book three. I'm honestly pretty disappointed with a tweet the author posted and his subsequent responses to those who replied, especially his trans readers. In this case, I've decided not to separate the author from the work.
Just "Support our Troops" or "Tell every woman you know she's special" or "Microsoft is running a test and if you send this you could get a check for $1,000!" When I see the letters FWD in the subject line, I usually simply delete it.I lost track of the number of emails I received telling me about the Anti-God movie The Golden Compass and the need to boycott the movies and the books.
Ten people wanted me to send that email on to everyone I know, telling them the same thing.
Other authors have done it...and done it well.Pullman didn't.I won't be reading the third book.
I mean, I don't think it would go over too well with audiences who haven't read to book to know that Lyra's friend Roger is killed by Lord Asreil and that Mrs. Coulter actually wants to control Lyra and in The Subtle Knife decide that yeah, she has to die.
The title of the series comes from a phrase Milton uses in Paradise Lost, which for those who don't know is a 16th century epic poem about Satan's great Fall from Heaven and the mischief he does in getting Adam and Eve to commit Original Sin. The books are about a rebellious girl named Lyra Belacqua, who comes from a world like the one we know, but is also very different.
Weird like the Wizard of Oz, magical like Harry Potter, and interesting, totally unlike "Chronicles of Narnia." The symbolism is so agog, so strange... Obviously, it makes for a great young adult novel!!
I gave I Am Half Sick Of Shadows: A Flavia De Luce Novel two stars and am now giving this book five star.
It is strange because the former book’s protagonist, my dear Flavia De Luce is my favorite obstinate pre teen.
On the contrary, Lyra, another stubborn, precocious, pre-teen absolutely annoyed me in the previous book.
Right now though, I can not for the life of me imagine why I did not like the first novel and Lyra.
Lyra Belacqua reappears with her daemon Pantalaimon and although she doesn’t play as central a role as the previous novel, she is absolutely charming.
For a moment, just imagine that after reading Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone you were so enthralled by the protagonist (even if you weren't bare with me), his friends and the entire world that has been established.
It's not horrible, but after reading the first book, this is not what you imagined it would become.
I did not hate this book, but after the awesomeness that was The Golden Compass, I'm really disappointed in this new world that we were brought into and the changes made to how the story was constructed.I thought that this was going to be Lyra's story, but it was taken over by Will and this really clumsy world building that I just could not enjoy as much as the previous book.
Just as fantastic all these years later. Still shocking, still clever, still more grown up than a lot of 'adult' books out there. This book doesn't shy away, doesn't talk down, and definitely doesn't disappoint.
The second in the trilogy and possibly my favourite out of the three.
In this case, the high rating is not for the actual quality of the book (that is very good btw), but for all that it meant to me while I was growing up.
Recopilan sus historias y deducen que hay muchos mundos, todos "enganchados" entre sí, que coexisten, y que solo aquellos que han descubierto las ventanas pueden viajar entre ellos.Estas aventuras tienen un propósito, que se desarrolla y se convierte en capas y más claras a medida que los dos viajan y se enfrentan a ángeles, espectros devoradores de almas, humanos calculadores, una multitud de niños desesperados, aliados mágicos y amigos de mentalidad superior.
Esta es una historia fabulosa, maravillosa, profundamente moral que se revela en todo momento.

Much like the city of Citagazze, The Subtle Knife is the crossroads between Northern Lights and The Amber Spyglass, and as such I think it's unfair to judge it as a single novel.
It introduces the wonderful characters of Will and Mary, and brings the whole concept of multiple worlds into play.
We also see small hints of the rebellion that will be raged across the worlds, but more importantly we see the beginnings of Lyra and Will.
Its really the perfect bridging novel that The Amber Spyglass needs to develop characters and storylines ready for that all important final chapter.
Reseña de "Luces del Norte" (La Materia Oscura 1)Reseña de "El Catalejo Lacado" (La Materia Oscura 3) ¿Habéis intervenido en la evolución humana?SÍ. ¿Por qué?VENGANZA. Este segundo libro me gustó muchísimo más que el primero. Se dieron muchos giros, conocimos nuevos personajes y arribamos a nuevos mundos. Todo lo planteado en Luces del Norte gana mayor terreno (diría que colosal) y todo lo que pensábamos que podía ser de una forma, termina siendo de otra.Sin embargo, puedo ver por qué hay alguno
Todo lo planteado en Luces del Norte gana mayor terreno (diría que colosal) y todo lo que pensábamos que podía ser de una forma, termina siendo de otra.Sin embargo, puedo ver por qué hay algunos que no gustaron de esta saga, porque es con este libro con el que la historia despega hacia una dirección totalmente opuesta a la que creíamos (o no quisimos ver) que iba a tener.
Sin embargo, fue todo tan agobiante y tan abrumador, que lo dejo pasar, porque la narración de Pullman se disfruta mucho, y hasta me parece que se vuelve mejor conforme avanzan los libros.
The story was slow and at some points stopped altogether to allow Pullman his theological preachings of anti-church and anti-god.
If the story had been metaphorical I would have enjoyed it more, but it became less fiction and more essay.
There are a lot of minor characters in too many places spreading the story out too thin to move quickly enough to keep one's attention.
Eventually the action picks up as the characters merge, setting the scene for the major battle in book 3, but I was too annoyed with his writing by then to shrug it off.
And then it got really cold, the water in our pipes froze and reading some good children's fantasy novel seemed like the best idea.This series is definitely improving as it goes on.
The first few chapters brought back that feeling of excitement I used to have when starting a new book as a child.Of course it is a lot of fun.
But gosh, children book writers are ruthless, aren't they?
It's like Narnia in reverse and could we please keep strong religious messages out of children's books?Also, I missed the fully fleshed world from the first book.
Mais um volume da série "Mundos Paralelos" lido a meias com a Pequetinha mais nova. Gostámos muito do livro, mas não da forma como acabou, com uma cena "cruel e desnecessária", usando as palavras dela. Vamos ver se no terceiro e último volume, o autor se redime...
Later...It is so surprising to me that the thing I found vastly irritating right at page one of the first of this series - the daemon - so quickly captivated me.
They take away the thing that succoured your daemon and made it and you blossom, you see it lying on the ground, dying, and there is nothing you can do.
Have you any idea?’ One of the reasons I became a scientist was not to have to think about that kind of thing.’ ‘You’ve got to think about it,’ said Lyra severely.”Lyra, you see, is a child, so unlike research academics, she can have a plain interest in the truth.Later on, beginning p.
and well, I think I liked this second installment a bit more as an adult, but I do still feel it's not quite as strong as the first book.There are still a lot of things I love about The Subtle Knife:• The world-building continues to be very entrancing, especially as it gets more into the concept of multiple universes.• This book also has the first appearance of the Specters *shudders* which are pretty terrifying.• I like Will, although I don't think he's quite as endearing as Lyra.
The strangest thing about Phillip Pullman's The Subtle Knife is that it doesn't feel like the second book in a series, making me wonder whether Pullman first wrote this in conjunction with The Amber Spyglass, then wrote The Golden Compass as a prequel, which then became the first book in the series once they were published.
Everything is fast, too fast, and the characters suffer, making it difficult to care about what is happening.The Subtle Knife is definitely a let down after Pullman's quite good The Golden Compass, and I have little hope for The Amber Spyglass, but I will know soon enough since I feel compelled to finish the series.One sidebar: for those who insist on calling this series "atheist," you should understand what atheism is.
As always it takes some days for this kind of thought to percolate down to the answer - I recalled something very similar from Anathem!At first my reaction was how marvellous it was that different authors had read similar things and developed an idea along related lines in parallel book universes, however once I double checked the publication dates I did feel a slight, entirely unwarranted, sourness towards Master Stephenson.In contrast to Northern Lights the story here rans over a much shorter time period, the cast of characters remained large, the deft reworking of Blake, Milton, and the Bible appeared to give away to Dark Matter, consciousness, and multiple universes, while the pace of the book was not maintained by one desperate fight after another.
An intriguing world.The fantasy books I have enjoyed most over the years all seem to have at least one of these characteristics.
Books that are set in the equivalent of a medieval England with magic would be boring if that was all there was to it, so they have to have at least one of the other two points to be a good book.
The truly great fantasy books are the ones that make you want to know more about the world in which they are set.
It's important to note that no one in these books ever thinks of what they are doing as magic - it is science, or it is religion.
For some reason, the alethiometer tells Lyra to help him find his father.Through Will, Lyra also gets to Will's world where she meets a physicist (studying what is known to Lyra as dust) and a man oddly familiar to her (though she cannot place him for a long time) and is thus sent on another quest, this time to retrieve the titular knife.In this new volume we learn of the string of worlds, people going back and forth, what happens to the party of friends Lyra left behind (Lee, Serafina ...) but also to the old enemies like Mrs. Coulter and the Magisterium (the Authority).
