https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33015.Selected_Poems
Although I have read several of his novels, this is the first time I have read Thomas Hardy's poetry and, as it does in all of its collections, Dover has gathered a selection from throughout his writing career.
As I said in one of my updates, and reaffirm on finishing reading, there is much sadness in the poems --both personal and related to war time loss.
I am looking forward to reading his biography as I wonder how many of the very personal-appearing poems may be autobiographical (if any).While there is much sorrow in Hardy's poetry, there is also beauty, the joy of nature, the intensity of tangled emotions and relationships.
His lyricism, subtlety, depth, and variety have earned him a significant place in the ranks of modern English poets.Not a critique of Hardy as much as the book itself.
Hardy's poetry is easily recognized as "classical" poetry.
It is enjoyable poetry that can be appreciated by all readers.
It brings the reader a fine collection of poetry in an easy to handle size.
At eighty pages, this collection is intimidating in itself and being a collection of poetry can be picked up and read and put down again.
There is not the need or feeling to read it all in one sitting.
As many other critics have noted, Hardy wrote some of the weirdest verse imaginable; Robert Mezey, in his cheerleader-ly introduction, quotes Donald Davie's assessment that in the face of Hardy's verse "one honest critic after another has by his own confession retired, baffled and defeated." Its quality seems wildly uneven; along lyrics of stunning penetration stand passages that A.
Its often jarring rhythms and unpredictable meter make it seem at times almost proto-modernist, while the insistence on archaic and rural language have the purity and strangeness of some bizarre lost pre-Middle English folk poet; the Gawain poet as imagined by John Clare and written by Hopkins, perhaps?
Hardy's poetry is exceptionally harsh and difficult, and this excellent collection does its best to help with the understanding.
I'm going to say "Wessex Heights" was my favorite, and most representative, although it's hard to pick one.Hardy's world view is exceptionally bleak, it is a world of pain and death, a pervasive fatalism.
And yet his poems have a distinct quality of genius, a strange greatness, that is really unlike any other poet.This is truly poetry for the discerning, like an extremely harsh, peaty scotch, terrible stuff to the novice but liquid gold to the knowing.
The reward is hard to describe, it's an appreciation for a unique and uncompromising quality of language and vision.
SELECTED POEMS(Dover Edition)Written by Thomas Hardy2015, 103 PagesGenre: poetry, classics(I received an ARC from the NETGALLEY in exchange for an honest review.)★★★★I really enjoyed this collection of Thomas Hardy's poetry. I like that while it has great imagery it is easy to understand (or at least I think it is). One of my favourite poems is HER INITIALS. I just love the words used in it.k (My Novelesque Life)
There are some happier poems, but don't read Hardy for a pep talk on love or human nature.I am particularly drawn to his poetry about war (what my senior paper was all about), and recommend you read "Poems of War and Patriotism" in Moments of Vision, "The Man He Killed", and "Channel Firing" among many others.
Hardy was an old man by the time World War I was raging and he was tired of man's self destruction.
So take some time and sit with Mr. Hardy.
If you've loved and lost, then he's the man for you.
I was aware that he had written poems but I don't think I'd had the chance to read any.Hardy wrote more than 900 poems, which seem like a pretty overwhelming place to start, so this is a good selection since there are sixty-nine presented here from a variety of time over his career from 1898 to 1917.
The curation is good, and there are footnotes scattered along the way to help illuminate passages or historical data.I was glad to get a chance to read this collection and I emjoyed the poems presented.I received a review copy of this ebook from Dover Publications and NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.
Thomas Hardy is a poet I always go back to. Perhaps known more for his novels, his poetry ranks among the best written in the past 100 years. I recommend his shorter poems and I would say that for understanding the craft of rhyme, meter, and poetical form, he is surely a pleasure. Thomas Hardy is not just an author you read and then move on to something else. He is a poet for a lifetime.
An enjoyable collection. Definitely found some new favorites!
Hardy's poetry more openly reveals his concerns as an artist (nature, death and lost love) while still connecting them to the late Victorian society in which he lived.
His poems describe prostitutes, hideous old women, cheating wives, cowardly young men and boring old men, all with a wide brush of sympathy designed to illuminate their humanity.Hardy was able to look both forward and backward, reminsicing of times long gone as well as looking forward to a mechanized impersonal society.
We are better able to feel the great shock the great war brought to Europe through Hardy's poetry.
It's a British collection titled "Selected Poems of Thomas Hardy," so it is undoubtedly similar if not identical (except for having an introduction by someone else).I started reading Hardy's Thomas poetry, and very quickly grew to like it considerably.
It's what I would like to compose if I had more poetic gift.Hardy is almost always strikingly melancholy; in fact I think I have come across only one poem so far that projected hope or contentment, much less joy.Though gentler and much less bleak, Whittier (as my other favorite) is not entirely dissimilar, for also being not innovative and for using rhyming couplets with simple language.
The books o Thomas Hardy have never done much for me, but his poetry which I have never read is a different thing. I really enjoyed them.
"Woman much missed, how you call to me, call to me/Saying that now you are not as you were/When you had changed from the one who was all to me/But as at first, when our day was fair." Hardy wrote this after the death of his estranged first wife in amends for his later treatment of her.Neutral Tones was taught in my Modern Poetry class.
He spins a lie and claims the child is his own.Most memorable and disturbing are Hardy's war poems.
But, hid from men,I bear that mark on me.Researching and reading about San Sebastian brought understanding of the horror behind Hardy's poem.
Whilst no one could doubt Hardy's importance as a novelist, it seems that many modern readers forget that he was also an excellent poet.
I highly recommend the Penguin Classics edition of his 'Selected Poetry', edited by Robert Mezey.
Mezey's unabashed love and admiration of Hardy makes reading his poetry all the more enjoyable.
He wrote like both an artist and a craftsman.Some of the same themes run through the novels and the poems--the unavoidable and often malignant role of fate or chance in the lives of people; the beauties and terrors of rural working class life; the realization that once one turns away from what is most important his life will become meaningless, something Hardy called "the tragedy of the moment".
Hardy saw tragedy as part of everyday life, not somethng that affected only noble or dramatic lives.

The jacket copy for the Oxford World's Classics paperback puts it nicely: "His verse touches all the common themes of existence: birth, childhood, love, marriage, ageing, death.
If his age brings anything to them, it is an old man's ironic, elegiac sense that hopes are likely to be defeated and losses sustained, and that the world was not designed for human happiness."Well .
"As the legend has it, [Saint John Chrysostom] crossed the Czarena for neglecting the needs of the poor, and she sentenced him to be dragged to death behind a chariot.


I got curious about Hardy's poetry after a discussion on Slate regarding the poem, The Darkling Thrush. Hardy's definitely a melancholic poet, most concerned with the darker, bleaker side of life, and writes beautiful poems in that manner. It's been too long since I last read a poet who uses established meter and rhyme, let alone a poet who employs them so well. There's much to ponder over in reading Hardy's work and I found this book to be a good introduction.
Selected Poemsby Thomas HardyDover PublicationsPoetryPub Date Dec 16, 2015I was given a copy of Selected Poems by Thomas Hardy through the Publisher and there partnership with Netgalley in exchange for my honest review which is as follows:This book shows that Thomas Hardy not only had talent as a Novelist but a poet as well. His talent shines through in the poems in this collection.I give this collection of poetry five out of five StarsHappy Reading…
Thomas Hardy was a prolific poet, and wading through his collected works would take a lot of time and dedication. Paulin's selection is a perfect introduction to Hardy's work, and I am grateful to have someone do all the hard work for me. Paulin has kept the Hardy favourites, but also included some amazing poems I have never encountered before. I would be surprised if anyone finished this selection without having formed the conviction that Hardy was a master of his craft.
Oh how I love Thomas Hardy's writing! I just finished reading Selected Poems, a book I had picked up at a little museum in Dorsetshire during a trip for the class I took on Dickens and Hardy. I had read some of the poems before, but never all through. Hardy does an excellent job of describing various aspects of life. He manages to do this in a rhythm I understand, something not all poetry does.
Excellent selection of Hardy's work. Balancing both the dark and the light sides of the emotions. Hardy cuts deep in an way that makes it hard to put down, it draws you in and touches you with a chilling sadness and depth of emotion. Classic Hardy. Love this book. Hate this book. It depresses and inspires me.
I have read many, if not all of of Hardy's novels, but I didn't know of his poetry.All are beautifully written and each one tells a story.I especially love the Darkling Thrush.I was given a digital copy of this book by the publisher Dover Publications via Netgalley in return for an honest unbiased review.
Hardy is better known for his novels, but quickly became my favorite poet upon my first exposure to him in this compilation in a class my freshman year at Pomona. Soem poems touch upon a personal level, others just reach me for some inexplicable reason, and all are beautifully written. Hardy more than any poet has influenced my writing, and this compilation is a great introduction to his work.
I read this collection in college and have kept it all these years. I really prefer Hardy's poetry to his prose. The story goes that he was a poet who wrote novels to make money to pay for his wife's mental illness, etc. The poetry is lovely, written in the latter part of his life, and mostly about his then-deceased wife.
Hardy's poems are really a mixed bag for me. Some of them are wonderful. Some don't really work. When I was a student, I read that the reason he wrote poetry in his later years was because of the violent reception of Jude the Obscure (it was publicly burned by many a religious zealot).
Hardy's verse takes shit but I wouldn't change him. However I DO think he may have killed his wife, give the deeply redundant and eulogistic Tell Tale Heart-esque paranoia about his lyrical grieving...
Hardy's poetry is even better than his prose.
