https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7159515-still-missing
In fact, it even has the bonus of a supposed “twist ending” where the author apparently mistook the word “twist” for “pulled it out of my ass because I couldn’t think of anything better.” It’s entirely possible James Patterson was a consultant for this, and the fact that he isn’t even acknowledged could attest to how busy Stevens was working on her editing.Seriously, if you want to read a thriller or suspense novel about a twentysomething woman abducted and kept secluded in a structure from which she cannot escape, raped, and forced to bear her abductor’s child, go read Room.
To prove how damaged Annie was, every other word became “hell” or “damn” in some lame attempt to make the reader think, “Ooh, she’s been through so much; now she’s tough and standoffish.” All it made me think was, “Who knew being kidnapped and held captive could turn you into Avril Lavigne circa 2002?”Oh, and let's not forget that author must have been absent on the first day of Creative Writing 101 when irony was discussed.
Same thing with the "I like cats" scene.(While we're on that subject, let's not forget the masterful line "Luck was my whole damn marketing campaign.
I am not sure why I went into reading STILL MISSING with such low expectations but I did, and boy was I pleasantly surprised!
I had this book on my "to read list" for awhile, and decided to finally read it after getting a recommendation from one of my Goodreads friends (Thank you Rita).I didn't really look at the synopsis in depth before I read it-which is unusual for me but in this case it was good that I didn't- I didn't know what I was getting into.
I connected with this character in many ways, as I am sure many women will/would.
There are many good bits that are weakened by a touch of poor writing, often weighed down by cliched phrases and the author's tendency to underestimate the reader's intelligence - like her frequent use of irony, only to then explain why that's ironic as if we couldn't get that on our own.
The chapters are called "Sessions" and the informal language used throughout gives the impression of bad writing (whether Stevens happens to be a good writer or not).
This was my first Chevy Stevens novel that I have read and it won't be my last. I really enjoyed this one. I also liked how Annie O'Sullivan's heart wrenching year-long ordeal and aftermath was told to us via her sessions with her therapist. It was a fast-paced, quick and easy read for me which grabbed my attention from the very first Session (chapter).I have read so many good books lately from reviews/recommendations of my friends here at Goodreads! Thank you!
Heck, Deliverance (which I should disclose I haven’t seen) with its mountain men and male rape scene sounds more like rainbows and pixie sticks compared to what transpires in this novel.
STILL MISSING is told through flashbacks via Annie O’Sullivan’s therapy sessions, as she talks about her yearlong mountain cabin confinement, daily rape, scheduled pee breaks, and attempts to escape.
David, her captor, brings a new definition to the word psychopath.There’s also a second narrative recounting events in her life following her escape, and frankly, it doesn’t sound like her life has improved all that much.
This novel has without a doubt won 5+ stars in my books!!!
The best book I have read in a while.
If work didn’t get in the way, I would have read this book all day long.
The character development is strong, you feel the pain, fear and anger the characters experience.
The feelings were so strong, and so real…it was as if I was going through it myself.
It literally made my stomach turn in disgust.I can honestly say there is nothing in this book that I didn’t like, there is nothing for me to criticize.
I picked it up one morning on my way out to the porch to enjoy the fall air and a cuppa.
It was however, a good hundred pages later, before I came up for air.
I had a family event I was expected to attend that evening and I confess to actually considering cancelling out, you know, “My regrets” just so I could finish this.
Family wins, still I did finish this later that same evening.I loved the shifting perspective from which this story unfolds.
It kept me glued to the page and anxious to know more.
We listened to this on a long car ride. It's a very strong psychological thriller, told from the perspective of the victim talking to her psychologist after being abducted. Annie was abducted, held hostage and then escapes her captor. Stevens does a wonderful job detailing what Annie must do to survive. You feel for her every time she ratchets down her self to keep going. And I don't think I've ever read a better description of PTSD than what Stevens details. This one keeps you on the edge of your seat throughout. Wonderful narrator to boot.
I bought this book a long time ago but for some reason I never cracked it open. So glad I finally did. Great thriller!!!
Chevy Stevens was herself working as a real estate agent when she got this terrifyingly scary idea for her first book and consequently quit her job to write it.
Annie O'Sullivan was a successful realtor on Victoria Island when she was abducted by a psychopath at the end of a house viewing and held captive for a year in an isolated mountain hut.
Although badly damaged psychologically by her abduction, Annie comes across as a strong character determined to get back on her feet and start living a normal life again.
I knew going into this that Still Missing had a big twist, so as I read it I was trying to think of what the twist could possibly be.
I kept thinking about one in particlar but I figured it was too crazy and sick to actually be the twist.
It was the crazy sick twist that I thought of about 50 pages in.
From the reviews readers either love this book or hate it.
I didn't hate it or love it but I did like it a whole lot.
Still Missing is a taunt and emotional read.
Annie O'Sullivan, a real estate agent, sees one last potential customer at her open house and ends up abducted in the back of a van. Her year of captivity is told through her sessions with her psychiatrist. An emotional and traumatic story unfolds with Annie's captivity, her dealing with coping after that year and the search for the abductor coming out layer by layer. A painful but compelling story!
The book blurb spells it out: a young realtor abducted from an open house, held captive by a psychopath for over a year, her journey of recovery.
Partly told as sessions with her shrink, how she dealt with the trauma of her captivity hooked me more than the actual abduction story.
Pretty amazing for a 1st novel – look forward to reading more by her.Of interest: Chevy Stevens lives on Vancouver Island, BC Canada where a beautiful young realtor named Lindsay Buziak was murdered at an open house on Feb 2, 2008.
Published on Jan 2010 - not a stretch her murder the impetus for this novel.
He reveals his plans for her over the course of a few days and she is horrified.
In the following description, I’ve left out some details of her captivity (such as the baby factor) because I’m not focused on that.
I’m tempted to throw the term ‘deus ex machina’ with sudden strength, but that may be going a bit far.When she gets back home, the story lulls a bit.
Finally about fifty pages left, the book totally redeems itself to me when revealing the who, and why of the whole story.
Given that just four-months later she is living alone and supposedly getting by day to day I do wonder how well this equates with true life examples and the research that has gone into this portrayal.From the outset the reader knows that Annie escaped and I felt the first half was a gratuitous misery fest of detailing many of her horrific experiences at the hands of the man who she comes to refer to privately as “The Freak”.
This story is a heart-felt chilling and engaging story of an abduction. She tells us her harrowing ordeal via her sessions with her psych doctor. It's heartbreaking at times and very real in how maybe these extreme conditions accounted for in this story insidiously alters a victims state of mind. This story is not designed to be a fast paced story but rather a well spanned out story of courage and the evil that people do. Recently winner of The Thrillfest Award 2011.http://more2read.com/?review=still-mi...List of Thrill fest winners here http://more2read.com/?p=1581
According to the review page for Still Missing, I guess you either love or hate this book???WELL. I. FUCKING. LOVED. IT.It was so very raw, so very honest and so very disturbing.   “I think people can be so crushed, so broken, that they'll never be anything more than a fragment of a whole person.”  In the spirit of this novel being told through sessions with a therapist, here's my personal problem: I am a mystery/thriller/horror lover. This is my genre. Anyone who feels the same are my kindred p
But I've read SO MANY of these kinds of books that my Desensitized-Bar-Level has incrementally increased over the years to the point that I don't have the patience for authors who pussy-foot around dark topics; who would rather use nuanced metaphors than just come out and discuss what needs to be discussed.
Basically, she's going to deal with some horrific shit, people!
“You can be as happy as you've ever been in your life, and shit is still going to happen.
I was so completely devastated, angry, sad, frustrated and disturbed by this story and the characters involved - and I loved every minute of every word on every page of it!And the worst part is, this shit could happen.
Needless to say I did NOT see THAT ENDING coming!!!!One day real estate agent, Annie O'Sullivan is at her open house.
Annie is abducted by a man who seems to know a lot about her.
A man who wants Annie to live by his rules.
She endures being raped, beaten and worse.Annie's story is told mainly through her sessions with her psychiatrist.
She has issues with moving on and daily living but as her session progress the reader does see her sound more confident and sure of herself.Who was the man that kidnapped her?
I was so spellbound upon finishing the book that I had a hard time articulating what made it so great.
All that Annie went through, from her abduction, captivity, recovery and everything after were so entrancing.
I enjoyed the device that the author used having Annie narrate during her sessions with her shrink.
But this book is so much more than her painful experiences of rape, deprivation and abuse.
The entire second half deals with Annie’s recovery, the investigation and the shocking revelation that she must come to terms with.
I received a complimentary copy of this book via the Amazon Vine Program.
Προσωπικά δε με ενθουσίασε.Το βρήκα εξαιρετικά μονότονο και μακροσκελές σε ορισμένα σημεία.Το πρώτο μισό του μέρος αναφέρεται στην απαγωγή,ενώ το άλλο μισό στην αναζήτηση των υπευθύνων και την αποκάλυψη της αλήθειας. Είναι πρωτότυπη η αφήγηση όλης της ιστορίας,μέσω των συνεδριών της πρωταγωνίστριας με την ψυχολόγο της και με ωραία γραφή αλλά ανιαρό δυστυχώς και με απλοικό τέλος. Ειδικά το τέλος δε με ''γέμισε'' καθόλου, βρήκα τους λόγους της απαγωγής εξαιρετικά χαζούς. Σίγουρα υπερεκτιμημένο βιβλίο.
There her personal nightmare begins.This guy brings new darkness to the word CREEP.I don't want to give too much away, but this passage is particularly chilling:It took him a second to give her to me, and as he passed her through the air a look crossed his face that I'd never seen before.
Annie's suffering and psychological digging into her abuser's mind is so deep that I wasn't sure if I could keep reading the first third of the book.But I'm glad I finished because the story ends up richer than I anticipated.
What a nightmare - WOW!Annie O’ Sullivan, a Realtor, heads out to show a house one summer afternoon.
Near the close of the open house, Annie is abducted by a potential client, a stranger who drugs and transports her to a remote mountain cabin on Vancouver Island where he repeatedly beats, rapes, and terrorizes her.
As the days and nights of her captivity begin to blur together, Annie is forced to conform to the whims of a psychopath, "The Freak”, and to sacrifice parts of herself in an effort to survive.
I have so many older books on my TBR that get ignored in favor of review copies and I figure participating in Throwback Thursday will help me to read at a least one older title a week!
I read my first Chevy Stevens book a few months ago, Never Let You Go and LOVED it, so I’ve been wanting to go back and read her earlier books ever since.This is told using a really cool narrative style, each chapter is actually a session between Annie and her therapist as she details the day of her abduction and the year she was held captive, then it follows her up to the present day.
This was a fantastic read from start to finish and one that kept me up late at night as I just could not put it down.Annie O'Sullivan is a realtor and is hosting a open house one Sunday for a German couple who are anxious to sell their house.
The open house is a bit slow, but ten minutes before it ends a man turns up enquiring if he is to late.
But little does Annie know those few minutes will change her life forever as this man ends up abducting her.
2,5 missing starsΗ απλή γραφή και η γρήγορη ροή του βιβλίου με κάναν να μην μπορώ να το αφήσω από τα χέρια μου.Για μια ακόμα φορά επέλεξε ένα καλό θέμα (αρπαγή) απλά για μια ακόμα φορά πιστεύω ότι δεν το δούλεψε τόσο καλά όσο έπρεπε.Οι χαρακτήρες δεν ήταν τόσο καλά δουλεμένοι, δεν μου προκάλεσαν κανένα αίσθημα είτε συμπάθειας είτε απάθειας.Το τέλος της αρπαγής πιο βολικό και από ποτέ και γενικά οι αποκαλύψεις στην συνέχεια ναι μεν σοκαριστικές αλλά ένιωσα ότι ο λόγος που έγιναν όσα έγιναν θα μπορούσε να ήταν καλύτερος...
The psychiatrist is not allowed to ask her questions and is not allowed anywhere near her "breaking point"....so basically there is no real "break trough" for Annie and it makes me wonder why did the author write this book in form of therapy sessions.I realize that psychotherapy takes years and years and it takes time to get real results, but I'm not sure I understand what Chevy Stevens was trying to do here.
I listened to the audio of this book and the performance was amazing.
I absolutely could not stop listening, I could not look away.
Listening to this story unfold is akin to watching a horrible accident, you know you don’t want all the details but it is impossible to look away.
The subject matter is very disturbing and the details of what the kidnapper did to Anna are disturbing but told in a very realistic manner.
This book is the realistic version and adult version of what really happens when a woman is kidanpped compared with the saccharine tale of Stolen: A Letter to My Captor.
People have compared it to "Gone Girl" or "The Good Girl", but I thought this was twice as suspenseful as either of those.
I think the main character had substance and it was easy to put myself in her possision even though, thank God, I have never had to endure anything close to her nightmare.
The ending was disappointing but believable, which for me is the most important aspect of a good complete story.
Angela Dawe's exceptional narration brought out the personality and feelings of the distressed and struggling main character.
A superb, expertly plotted book, brilliantly written, this is an outstanding debut novel from Chevy Stevens.
Apart from perhaps We Disappear by Scott Heim, Still Missing is the only book I can think of that so effectively deals not only with an abduction or disappearance, but also the after effects of this.
As the book develops we learn more about how Annie is, or isn't, coping, and how even though she is now 'home', she is very much still missing.
This mesmerising book holds its own up there with Gillian Flynn's debut Sharp Objects and should not be missed.
