https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16178.Dairy_Queen
What were they THINKING?*Twenty pages in*"I'm reading a book about a dumb hick milking cows?
What the hell was Tatiana thinking, recommending me this book!"*Fifty pages in*"Hmmm, it's kind of interesting I suppose.
This is really sweet!
I didn't realize American football is so interesting and exhilarating!"*Two hundred pages in*"No way!
Oh my goodness, what was he thinking?
D.J. what were you thinking?
Curtis is sweet!
I wonder if there are any dairy farms around here..."*Two hundred and seventy-eight pages in**Kat wipes away a tear* "OH MY GOODNESS ARE THERE MORE?!"*Goes online to check*"YES!
A very cute story about a 15 turning 16 year old girl named DJ who has only ever known life in her dad’s farm. She’s responsible, does what everyone expects of her, obedient and hardworking. Not much different from the cows she milks every day. “And that’s what put me to sleep. Thinking about cows or elephant poops.”  (LMAO!)One day she decides she doesn’t want to be a cow anymore (and I mean this in a completely metaphorically way, so chill!)^^ and that’s where the plot becomes really interesti
Not much different from the cows she milks every day.
Thinking about cows or elephant poops.” 
(LMAO!)One day she decides she doesn’t want to be a cow anymore (and I mean this in a completely metaphorically way, so chill!)^^ and that’s where the plot becomes really interesting.
Written in a very candid and genuine manner in the POV of DJ herself as a journal for her English requirement to redeem her flunked grade, the story, I think, is very genuine and the voice of the narrative truly sounded as if it’s written by a young farm girl and this is probably what made the entire story simply adorable.
This is pointed to her by a lazy and arrogant Brian, the rival high school's quarterback, who is sent to D.J.'s farm to help her out, learn work ethics, and get some football training.
Strangely enough, Brian has something to teach D.J. too - to look at her life style closer, to do some soul-searching, to become a better communicator.I can't say that Dairy Queen is a mind-blowing kind of book.
When I finally found a spare two minutes to sit down and start reading this book, I suddenly ended up drawn in for a couple of hours discovering that Dairy Queen is just as ridiculously funny, silly, and heartwarming as everyone had told me it was. And strangely inspirational too - I love anyone who dares to break the mold, especially young females who challenge gender stereotypes and go their own way. I will admit that I am not the biggest fan of chick lit novels, so I should warn you that thi
Lockhart and/or Stephanie Perkins, I can see no reason why you wouldn't love this.D.J. Shwenk is a great character.
You know why I think she is such a great character?
Anyway, this novel does this repeatedly and I'm glad I didn't read it in public.I put this book off for two reasons, 1) I never thought I would enjoy a book about either sport or farming, never mind both!
And 2) I've been busy reading the dark, disturbing, depressing, supernatural and fantasy books, which is all very well but sometimes we need a little bright happiness from our novels.
That's one advantage to not talking. After a while people stop talking back.  I swear, I swear to you....I am not a snob. Really!! Swear!! But come on...look at this cover. It's a cow. In a tiara. With a blue sky in the background and named after a restaurant I love. What's a girl to think when she sees this? Oh well, guess it's a moot point... Because this book was fabulous. (okay, I was guna use that GIF anyway because duh, friends, but it just worked out so well ;) ) Basically what it came
D.J.'s voice is one that, while a little different at first, is one that I think many young girls could relate to.
I couldn't go into high school without a better level of academics and not knowing the in town program and it's people and coaches.
The whole book D.J. is trying to prove her worth to herself, that she's not just some cow that does what everybody says, and when she finally finds a purpose, playing football for her school's team, it helps her to feel vindicated and strong and worthy of people's admiration.
Lots and lots of football (oh yeah!) Murdock does a fantastic job of describing the sport, but it’s clear that she really isn’t a fan when she mentions D.J.’s old brother/football hero Bill attending Minnesota.
Just about the worst team in the Big Ten. I could understand if the book was based in Minnesota, or Murdock had special ties to that school (who knows, maybe she does?) But Dairy Queen takes place in Wisconsin, which has a perfectly respectable state university and football team of their own.
So it's pretty amazing that Catherine Gilbert Murdock managed to induce the same excitement in me without visual aids and eye candy.There are just so many reasons to love Dairy Queen.
The characters in this story are flawed, amazing and interesting, simply for being so relatable.
I've already made my way through the second book in the series, and I gotta tell you, it only gets better.
If you haven't read this book, I would wholeheartedly recommend that you go get it right this minute, because every second you waste thinking about it is a precious second you could be spending getting to know the one, the only, DJ Schwenk!
I never thought I’d have fun reading about a belching contest of all things, but that’s exactly what happened.
On one side, most of them don’t even want to because they’re convinced that nobody likes to read about average people.
D.J. always does the right thing for herself, but that doesn’t mean that she’s too smart.
All those awkward sentences (kind of like mine, but worse) and words that kept repeating again and again made things sound more authentic.
In other words, once I realized that Murdock did it on purpose, and it DID take me a while, I liked it.
But ultimately, the insanely true voice (by turns very funny and very touching) and nice working of common themes through the book (saying this is a realistic YA novel about cows and football is at once the truest and least true thing you could every say) makes me give this five stars.Definitely just -- great voice.
***wondering why all my reviews are five stars?
Because I'm only reviewing my favorite books -- not every book I read.
Consider a novel's presence on my Goodreads bookshelf as a hearty endorsement.
I can't believe I just said "hearty." It sounds like a stew.****
DJ Schwenk is a teenage girl growing up on a dairy farm in rural Wisconsin.
If you have to listen to professors talk about stuff like substantive due process and prescriptive easements for 3-4 hours a night, this is the type of audiobook to listen to on the way there and back.
(Especially you, Maureen-who-only-occasionally-signs-on-goodreads-and-who-I-promise-to-call-back-soon!) It also made me miss my NCCC days, where we worked hard, worked out a lot, and sweat a ton.
I miss working outside and I was (dare I say it) jealous of the farm work DJ had to do.Anyway, this book is adorable.
Actually it was pretty great, as soon as I finished it I went online to order the other two books in the series.All because of DJ.
Aside from being farmers, the Schwenks are also good at playing football and DJ is no exception.
DJ's dysfunctional family and friends guide us through the rules of personal communication, familiar love and friendship beyond social strata, giving it a depth hidden behind the simple, yet clever tone and writing style.I really enjoyed it, it pleasantly surprised me and I'm looking forward to knowing what happens to DJ next!
“If this was a movie or something I’d give this awesome speech and everyone would cheer and it would be great. But it wasn’t a movie-it was my life. And I don’t have much to say in the best of situations.” Initial Final Page Thoughts.If you need me, I’m gonna be in Schwenksville. Also… this review is brought to you by the letter ‘R’… for REALHigh Points.This book is re-… OK, I’ll stop that right there. DJ Swchenk. Brian. Summer lovin’. A girl with ambitions. Diversity. Cows. Pick-up trucks. Wat
I’M GONNA PUNCH YOU IF YOU LOOK AT MY BOOBS’ because, to me, that’s just as bad as a YA heroine being simpering and blarrgh.The line isn’t that fine between these two categories and I wish more authors would take a leaf out of Ms Gilbert Murdock’s book and create characters that experience feelings that every day people have but not lose themselves completely when things go belly-up.DJ is such a refreshing heroine and I can’t wait to find out more about her.
All that changes when Brian Nelson, the QB from D.J.’s rival high school, comes to work on the farm and ends up taking football lessons from her.
As she trains Brian, she learns that there’s more she wants out of life and when something that really matters comes up, she needs to speak up.There were several scenes I found hilarious and inspiring and I never thought I’d say that I found a football game exciting, but there I was cheering on the characters in a preseason game.
I loved all three books, and every one of them had me perched at the edge of my seat, ready to jump up and yell "GO D.J. GO" because I had been so caught up in her story.
All the characters of this series felt extremely real to me and I loved each one of them along with all their flaws.
There’s also a cute romance included but only the story of the third book revolves to a larger extent around D.J.’s love live.
Dairy Queen is unlike any other contemporary novel I’ve read, simply because it is set on a farm.
Dairy Queen isn’t just D.J’s story – it’s the story of her father, her mother, her brothers, and even Brian.
Although Dairy Queen is a quick book, it’s by no means forgettable and so much about it can brighten up your day just by thinking about it, making it one of those contemporaries you want to thrust into the hands of every unsuspecting person who may walk down the street.
I'd seen Dairy Queen and plenty of other Catherine Gilbert Murdock novels come and go at the public library where I work, but I had never read a single one before.
Instead, it's actually about a quiet yet hard-working farm girl who tries out for her rural high school's football team after training a rival football team's player over summer break.
Let's just say, I can probably count on one hand how many newer YA contemporary novels I've read that are primarily set on a working farm.
★★★★★ What a wonderful book! The only fault I found was in myself – because I didn’t pick up the next one in this charming series while I was at the library! I’ve already requested the audio CD’s. Hopefully, I’ll do a more in-depth review for that media format.Glad I needed Wisconsin for my State Challenge.
High red Dairy Queen in high school and I thought it was a fantastic romance book and I thought it was a good play on the author's words and I got sucked into it when I was in high school.
D.J.s view of her own situation gets shook up during summer holidays, when the football coach of the enemy school sends his quarterback Brian over to help on the farm and get trained by D.J. He sneers and calls D.J. a cow who just swallows what has been thrown into her trough.
It was so sad but heart-warming to live through D.J.'s self-reflection, her learning to think for herself, the slow meltdown of the whole family never talking problems thoroughly through and the bitter-sweet experience of falling in love for the first time.
What got to me hardest was D.J.'s parents' attitude towards her running the farm and messing up her grades in school for the family's sake.
I picked this up on a recommendation stating that it was really good and super humorous. And...I don't know, maybe it was just me but I struggled through this whole read. Sure there were some funny parts but nothing that had me smiling like crazy or even laughing out loud. Maybe it was me though and not the writing. I think this is just one of those cases where this just wasn't my cup of tea.
And trust me, I live in student housing in desperate need of renovation so that is by no means a cozy bathtub, but I was so engrossed in this story that I kept reading long after the water got cold.I admit, I grew up on a farm driving tractors ever since I was a little kid (so young that I look at my kids and think Were my parents really crazy enough to let me operate machinery when I was that age???) so I LOVED all of DJ's description of the farm.
She was right.Everything that is wrong in Catching Jordan is right in Dairy Queen.
I knew straight away I was going to enjoy this book as I found myself powering through the book, I had tons of other review books to get through, but this was the only book which seemed to be occupying my mind.Dairy Queen definitely had an original take on things; D.J is responsible for her family’s farm, with her dad hurting his hip not being able to do much anymore, her older brothers Bill and Win away at college, a lot of the responsibility falls on D.J. It’s tough, D.J’s still in high school, she has to fit in studying around all the farming duties too.
And the cover looks funky so I am guessing this would be an enjoyable book that could either make u laugh or loud or give u lots of feel good vibes.
Whats gonna happen when farm girl have to train the rival school popular spoiled quaterback??
The character's interaction doesn't tell u that their relationship are strained.
To me , they seem like any normal family and u keep getting told that " No no they have problems why can't u see it??"I expected some explosive moments where a character can't take it no longer and they start to speak out their feelings.
She makes me look around at my world and decisions, stop and think, and even push me to stop following the herd.
To have someone in your life that can listen, talk to you, make you laugh, and inspire you in this world, is so rare and special.
This book makes the game of football come to life with color, smells, and action.
I learned to love the game even more along with D.J. and Brian.But football wasn’t just a game in this story.
I adore D.J and look forward to hearing more from her and the whole Schwenk family!Do I recommend this book?
I can't believe how I seriously just loved this book!!!Dairy Queen is one of those books that you wouldn't think twice about just looking at the cover or even reading the summary, well to me anyways.
Dairy Queen takes these two concepts and makes one brilliant story.This was a real treat learning about something so intriguing!But this is more about football and farming.
Someone who does what she's told and never complains know matter how much she wants to have her own life, her own decisions.And Brian Nelson, is the one who got her thinking that she was a cow in the first place, but D.J finally found something that she wants more then anything.
I feel goooood.Sept.2012When you read about people loving a book, it's hard not to expect to like it.
I just wanted to root for her up to the end, tell her off when she doesn't say the things she needs to say, but relieved to find out that she turned out just fine.I can't wonder why this book is a highly recommended YA novel.
Their relationship isn't based on physical appearances (though it's not hard to argue that these two are actually good-looking people), it's not insta-love, and they both just mutually respect each other, despite differences, and the occasional conflict, which they patch up like an old married couple (ugh, how cute is that!) The development of their relationship is something that I respect.
Its like, one of the only sports that there's really not a Woman's league.
I mean, all women can do in this sport is cheer the men on from the sidelines in little outfits and pom-poms...
I'm sorry, but that's just sad...I seriously think they need a Woman's League and on the guys cheer on the girls with pom-poms and their shirts off...
So football sounds a little cooler after this book...
I love cows and all, but its REALLY wonderful to be compared to a COW!!!I like how it ended though.
I wouldn't mind falling in love with a football player...
Her dad suffers from a bad hip, her mom's life is consumed by her job at school, her two older brothers play football at college, and her younger brother is on the basketball team.
With absolutely no aid or even a hint of a help, D.J. mulls over whether she wants to continue living her life like it isn't her own.
That is until Brian Nelson, the quarterback of her rival school's football team, more or less decides to help her with the farm.
While the book is literally about football and farm life, metaphorically it brings into focus family values and one's ability to talk out of turn.
Oui parce le livre est vraiment génial, exceptionnel même sur certains points (j'y reviendrai), mais là je me transforme en petite fille capricieuse.Je veux mon Happily Ever After!
Je pourrais dire énormément de choses sur ce livre.Je pourrais dire que j'ai ri aux éclats, que l'auteur a réussi à capturer l'expression d'une jeune fille avec un talent vraiment rare et exceptionnel, que j'ai adoré sa gestion de la ponctuation - la ponctuation, bordel, sa maitrise de la syntaxe qui fait de chaque phrase une respiration, comme si l'histoire nous était racontée de vive voix.
Dairy Queen struck close to home and I loved every second of it. Can't believe I haven't read it sooner. A perfect old-school young adult novel.
