https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/315272.The_Shoes_of_the_Fisherman
I wonder what Morris West thought when Pope John Paul II (Karol Wojtyła) became pope?
I wonder if JPII ever read this book and how it might have affected him and impacted his decisions?And then there is the return of the exiled Jean Télémond who is recalled to Rome by the Father General of the Society of Jesus and can only be a literary depiction of the real life Pierre Teilhard de Chardin.
It's one of those rich books where the characters utter these phrases of TRUTH which leave the reader stunned ...
I found myself putting the book down content to just contemplate one phrase/sentence for a time, then torn between leaving that thought behind and reaching for the next delicious and/or nourishing bit of wisdom.A must read!
He was succeeded in 1963 by Pope Paul VI, known for his reforming of the Catholic Church to be more open to the world, to engage in dialogue with people of other religions, and to champion social justice.Morris West's Pope Kiril I is a fictional combination of the two and I had to marvel at the author's prescience.
My religious upbringing, rejected and revised by me years ago, left me with almost a gag reflex when anyone starts pontificating (pun intended) on how if everyone could just be brought to believe in the one Christian God, we would have peace and justice in the world.
Read and enjoyed this years ago (before the movie). Current readers may have a little trouble understanding why a Russian pope would have had such impact (prior to the dissolution of the Soviet Union and election of John Paul II).

I really enjoyed this book. The combination of philosophical internal discussions from the highest seat in the Catholic church and the everyday worries of a middle-aged man set in the midst of the cold war was brilliant. When you think that this was written just a few years before the Cuban crisis, it shows a clear insight to the tension at the time. In light of the resent appointment of Pope Francis, it is particularly interesting to read about the Jesuits and the development of the role of the Pope, including travelling to other countries and similar.
I read this book for college English 50 years ago. I revisted it in anticipation of the upcoming conclave. Amazing how things haven't change to a great degree from when this was published. Still trying to get the church to connect with the common man and divorce itself from pomp and circumstance. Still a worthwhile read fifty years later.
The concept seems quite interesting at first: an unknown russian, cardinal Kiril Lakota is elected pope.
At the same time, Kamanev, the man who had been Lakota's prision guard in Russia, and who tortured him beyond belief, has become the head of the russian government.
There are also a series of sub-plots dealing with what Lakota has to face as a pope, regading human cruelty, poverty, and most of all politics, which could have proven to be enough for a good novel.
As I mentioned before, West is a very good writer, but this book is in my opinion, highly overrated.
Not so.The book story line begins with a new pope from behind the iron curtain.
The story deals with internal political issues at the Vatican, as well as the external challenges faced by the church at that time.
The movie on the other hand - as I recall it - ran along similar lines, but more emphasis was on the threat of nuclear war and the pressure created by a famine sweeping China.
In the movie the new pope offers to sell all the assets of the church - which created a storm within the church - to feed the hungry.
Moments of crisis - in spirit, in thought, in love, in action - populate this book and Morris West does not shirk from giving his characters hard things to think about, and hard things to do, as well as the hard consequences of their actions.
The book is unresolved, leaving Ruth and George in the brink of a new relationship, Calitri and Chiara free to pursue separate lives, and a world war beginning to be averted by diplomatic talks.
Interesting book, written intelligently, with real people inhabiting a space.
This book was fantastic!!
Posiblemente la mejor novela vaticana que se haya publicado.
just crap
I enjoyed this old novel (it came out in 1963) about the Vatican and a new, young Pope from an Eastern block country who shakes things up in Rome.
The author was an Australian, and in his novels he managed to predicted the Papacy of John Paul II fifteen years before it happened, as well as the retirement of Pope Benedict decades before it took place.
It was interesting for me to read about the concerns of the Catholic Church on the eve of Vatican II (the novel actually came out on the day Pope John XXIII died).
I was not at all familiar with this book and only read it because a book club was reading all New York Times Best Sellers from the 1960's.
It is an interesting premise, a pope dies, the cardinals gather to choose a successor, and the youngest of them, a Russian, is chosen.
The problem is, with the collapse of the Soviet Union and the end of the Cold War the idea of a cardinal stepping out from behind the iron curtain to lead Catholicism isn't as interesting.

"Las Sandalias del pescador" se remonta en un conflicto ideológico denominado "Guerra Fría" sin embargo , El Papa ha muerto , Pero ¿Quién tomara su lugar será algún cardenal italiano? , Por otra parte el personaje principal es Cirilo I Pontífice Máximo , es escogido Papa ; Pero lo que distingue a Cirilo I de otros cardenales , es su sencillez y humildad ; por otra parte , se apoya de la ayuda de David Telémond.Un libro muy interesante y curiosamente que aborda temas esenciales sobre el Vaticano y su estructura.
Surprised by how much I really enjoyed this book. Not being Catholic I was not hoping for great things... it started slow and I wasn’t really hoping for much, but after the first part of the book was over I really got into it and found it quite thought provoking and profound, questioning the reader through the characters about our own nature and relationship with/to God and about who God is and who we are to each other. Really insightful and thoughtful writing.First Morris West book I’ve read and will definitely try some more.
This is a great story and fascinating to think that it was written before the end of Vatican II and the recent papacies. A lot of the same issues and discussions and the direction of the recent Popes is included in this novel. The characters are well developed and interesting, although the general tone of the book is somewhat negative, pessimistic, and dark - despite the positive outcomes and efforts of the characters.
This was a providential read for me. I got it at the library through their "blind date with a book" program for Valentine's Day. So I didn't know the book I picking, but I found it extraordinarily timely. I have been grappling with my spirituality for a long time and how God fits in my life. This book has many of the same contemplations. I wrote down many great quotes to help me on my spiritual journey. At the same time it was an enjoyable and quick read, though some sections dragged.
Un delicioso reencuentro con un clásico. Este libro me lo recomendó mi papá cuando ya tenía unos 16 años. Recuerdo que me gustó mucho pero no recordaba mucho más detalles. Ahora que lo leo 26 años después, no creo que en ese tiempo haya entendido ni la mitad de lo que leí. El libro es sumamente interesante y pensando en el tiempo en el que se escribió es leer a alguien que profetizó muchas cosas que al día de hoy sigue sucediendo en la Iglesia. Muy recomendable lectura.
2.5 starsThe story of a newly elected pope dealing with the problems of the Atomic Age, including nuclear armageddon and babies deformed by prescription drugs.The reason I'm docking the book a couple of points is because of a secondary story. Something about some woman trying to get a divorce so she can marry an American. It was nothing but filler with no impact on the main story. Cut it out and you wouldn't even miss it. Why was it even put in there?
Excellent Cold War study from a different angleA fictional study of life during the Cold War from a different point of view, the Catholic Church. Everybody has read fiction and non-fiction about the Cold War, but nobody has looked at a group committed to peace and given a view from that point of view. It’s an interesting read and well done.
Interesting view into the inner workings of the Vatican. It's very reflective of the typical bureaucracy weighed down by people too old to move with the times and so have lost touch with their essential purpose. The book's a little dry and drawn out in spots with old school type writing but a good read nevertheless.
I have always enjoyed the movie based on this book and finally found the opportunity to do so. Once again, I find that the book is so much better than the movie, mainly because it is afforded the opportunity to more define and flesh out the characters.
I really wanted to like this book much more than I actually did. The different story lines seemed disjointed to me and it seemed more like the book just stopped rather than had an ending.
Pero por otro lado pienso que esta es la edad perfecta para disfrutar un autor así con temas político, religiosos, humanos y espirituales.
De todas formas me siento contento de poder disfrutar al autor en ésta época de mi vida.Respecto al libro, son tantos los aspectos que cubre en sus 317 páginas que numerarlos todos es complicado.
Vemos que sorprendentemente esto es más sencillo de lo que parece ya que los cardenales y obispos tienen en mente a uno entre ellos para que ocupe el legado de Pedro.
Vemos los temores de éste nuevo Papa: Cirilo I.
There are two things which drew me in initially: the back story of Pope Kiril – he had been imprisoned in the old USSR presumably for his beliefs and interrogated – tortured?
He meets a woman who inspires him with her selfless work in helping the poor, and people less fortunate than herself – this woman becomes involved with the press man as the book goes along.
Kiril receives a note from the man who imprisoned him asking for his help in starting talks between his government and the USA to try and sort things out peaceably.
Coming from a deep dislike of the Catholic Church, I'm not sure why I even wanted to read this.
Pope Kiril I has a deep humanity, and his interaction with the Jesuit Jean is one of the best expressions of affection toward another man I've read.
His understanding of the politician Calitri's homosexuality, and even his comparison of it with his deep love for Jean was moving, but again, completely divorced from reality (one cannot imagine Pope Nazi-nger expressing anything similar.
Between then and now, many of the ideas West advocates in this book have come to pass.
West (through his characters of course) acknowledges the possible bad effects of a traveling papacy; Mass in the vernacular; decentralizing doctrine and discipline.
All of these bad effects and more have come to pass.The pope in this novel does acknowledge his responsibility to safeguard and pass on the deposit of faith without the smallest taint of change or error.
How refreshing it would be to hear such things today!One character is based on Teilhard de Chardin.
Again, how refreshing to see both the discipline, and the accepting of the discipline today!
Not a whole lot of action, but still fascinating to read about the thinking of all these characters.
The book also lacks a neat resolution; it ends after the main character makes a decision with regard to the world crisis, but before it's implemented, and so we don't get to see any results.
I suppose that's kinda realistic - it's a leap in the dark, doing something without knowing what the outcome will be...
Unless there's supposed to be a sequel??
Not that I know much about Teilhard - it came up in one of Pope Benedict XVI's writings (The Spirit of the Liturgy maybe?) very briefly and I looked it up to understand what he was talking about.
