https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/133518.The_Things_They_Carried
My wife and I had been chasing healthy and happy, mischievous boys for years and if I was hyper vigilant for bad guys, I was even more sensitive to children getting loose.As natural as if I were on the sidewalk in Middle Tennessee, I reached down and caught him, said something incomprehensible to him like “whoa little man, don’t loose momma” and I smiled at his mother and she smiled at me and then in that moment, I was not an armed soldier occupying her city and we spoke the same language and we were neighbors keeping a little boy out of the street.That was ten years ago and so much happened over there, but I will always remember that moment because it was an instance of unconditional and timeless humanity during wartime.
I first bought The Things They Carried at the Bruised Apple, a used bookstore and coffee shop in downtown Peekskill, New York, back in 1991 when I was fifteen years old.
Loaned out and lost to a college crush years ago, a dear friend bought me a replacement copy awhile back signed to me by Tim O'Brien himself.
This new copy is not quite as loveworn, but still it is cherished.The beauty of this book lies not necessarily in the war stories at its center, but rather in the undulating, overlapping entanglements that are people's lives, in the act of using storytelling as a means of recapturing our histories, bringing the many facets of our so often fragmented selves forward into the present day.
These connected stories are about young men in their late teens and early twenties doing their best to carry the weight of a brutal war on their shoulders, along with dozens of pounds of field kit and weaponry.
Short of doing damage to themselves to be airlifted out of there, they all carry the weight of being stuck.These stories don’t stop with the horror and macabre humour of being part of a platoon of young men in war.
It is about being one of many little vehicles with two legs and heavy burdens to carry and not knowing if you will ever see home again.This was a Traveling Sisters Group read with Brenda, Diane, JanB, Marialyce, and Nikki.
Awestruck may be the best way to describe how I felt upon reading this book the first time.
However, the reader should not feel manipulated by this storytelling technique as it seeks to forge a connection between those who were there and those who were not; it does not seek to tell what happened, but to make you feel what it was like to be there.
A sad story that encompasses the many different aspects of soldier life during the Vietnam war.
How did a young, blood-quesy liberal, who had taken a stand against the war while at university become a soldier who carried out brutal orders and killed without thinking?
The author talks at one point how embarrassing confessions are for the people who have to hear them and yet he admits his stories must be told, anyway.But this also isn't a difficult book.
O'Brien sees both US soldiers and Vietcong as young men thrown into something they didn't understand, both victims of a war that was out of control.
It was thankfully near the end of the war.Years have passed, and the Sisters group decided to read and discuss this, so I decided now was the time, it was now or never.
All wars are terrible but the way these soldiers were treated when they returned was surely criminal.
At least as a nation, if we have learned nothing else, we have learned to treat our returning soldiers with the respect they deserve, and as the heroes they surely are.
By telling us some fact and some fiction, then revealing which is which (Allegedly.), O’Brien shows that sometimes a well told lie based on fact has more power than a real story accurately told.
This isn’t the memoir of a guy who obtained some kind of closure by writing it, it’s the story of the fear, doubt and confusion he still wrestled with decades later.
In order to convey that experience, he had to tell the reader some war stories and let us decide just how true they were.
The introduction is simply “This is one story I’ve never told before.” (view spoiler)[ It’s about “Tim’s” and/or Tim’s summer of ’68, after graduating from Macalester; after receiving within a couple weeks a draft notice; after working in a pig slaughterhouse in Worthington for several weeks; anguishing over what he should do about this war that he doesn’t believe in, that’s he’s being called to; finally leaving a note to his parents, taking off, driving north up through Duluth, International Falls, then to the west along the Rainy River.
I took a short story writing class for kicks a while back.
On the first day, the professor recommended two books: Mystery and Manners by Flannery O’Connor and this book by Tim O’Brien.
Then I just as promptly set them aside to read something flashy.
I am glad I waited until after the class to read this one.
It’s hard to forget as well.Most of the book I wanted to take O’Brien by the shoulders and demand to know exactly what’s true and what’s fabricated.
He addressed this in the book.
Does it belong with the forks or the spoons?
The Things They Carried is a different kind of book, but it shares with Going after Cacciato a powerful sense of how it feels for a soldier to be at war.
O’Brien doesn’t debate the merits of the Vietnam War, but thoughtfully speaks about the burdens, hopes and fears the soldiers in Alpha Company bore (thus the title of the book).
Writes O’Brien, “You don’t have to be in Nam to be in Nam.” There are no pitched battles described, but O’Brien still makes you feel the connection to his fellow soldiers and their unenviable situation.
The Things They Carried is highly recommended!
I want you to know why story-truth is truer sometimes than happening truth.”Tim O’Brien’s The Things They Carried has sat on my bookshelf for years.
It’s barely worth mentioning, since it is one of the most well-known, if not the most well-known war novels of all time, but The Things They Carried is an interlocking series of short stories.
This begins before the book even starts, when O’Brien dedicates The Things They Carried to Alpha.
Instead, it is a powerful piece of metafiction that happens to be set in Vietnam.The Things They Carried started off pretty much as expected.
Siedo a questa macchina da scrivere e fisso oltre le mie parole e guardo…”Casualties of War-Vittime di guerra”, di Brian De Palma, 1989.Se non avessi letto “Dispacci” di Michael Herr, direi che questo è il più bel libro che ho letto sulla guerra del Vietnam.
Siccome ho letto “Dispacci” di Michael Herr, non posso dire che questo sia il più bel libro che ho letto sulla guerra del Vietnam.
Allora, posso dire che questo è il più bel libro di racconti sulla guerra del vietnam che abbia mai letto.“Dispacci” era per così dire in presa diretta.
This is one of the most important books I've read not only this year, but of all time.
Absolutely captivating filled with quotes on EVERY page that make me stop and think.
This isn't just a book about war, it's a book about writing about tragedy and coming to terms with loss and PTSD and losing friends and every single story was meaningful and symbolic and just shocked me with the sheer amount of truth and power.
I know most people who say they've read this read it for a class, but if you haven't picked up this book, PLEASE do so.
It will literally change the way you think about war, and it's so damn clever yet heart wrenching.
The triumph of the book is the way O'Brien--sometimes using violence, sometimes not--is able to strike like lightning on a clear day, searing details across my imagination that I won't be able to get out anytime soon:-- On ambush, or other night missions, they carried peculiar little odds and ends.
But at night you turned into a believer: no skeptics in foxholes.O'Brien's command of prose, the marriage of the literary with the journalistic, is the chief reason to read The Things They Carried.
Tim O'Brien's "The Things They Carried" is a powerful, heartbreaking and gut-wrenching book about the Vietnam war.
"The Things They Carried" isn't really a novel or memoir, it's more a collection of linked short stories, each one looking at a different aspect of the war or of Tim's life.
His gravelly voice handled both the grim and the bizarre elements of the war, and he has the warmth of character to make it feel like we were sitting around a campfire, sharing our deep, dark stories.
There were Christians among us, like Kiowa, who believed in the New Testament stories of life after death.
I’ve read any number of books where the Vietnam War has featured large in the context of the central narrative.
I’ve read a few fictional books that have been largely or wholly about the war itself, or the impacts of the war on the people caught up in it.
I’ve even read one or two non-fiction books which have sought to explain why the war was fought.
The line between fact and fiction is blurred to the point it’s impossible to tell one from the other.Tim O’Brien spent a year in Vietnam.
The third and final strike is that, although I’ve read plenty of these short story collections over the last few years, I’m still not entirely sold on their overall merit.
All these preconceived notions, yet I couldn't rid my thoughts of something Jeff said early on in his read through–and I’m paraphrasing here–“so far, this is an absolutely breathtaking read, check out that titular story and you'll be hooked.” I also vaguely remember Amanda's ringing endorsement from a few years back, which put this on my radar to begin with.
Or a fictionalized version of the truth?Tim O’Brien, as a Vietnam vet and writer, makes no bones about the veracity of a war story: “I want you to feel what I felt.
I want you to know why story-truth is truer sometimes than happening-truth.” This book is an exercise in not only exorcising demons and coping with guilt and grief, but in how to write a narrative that weaves in and out of what could pass for truth or fiction, like a greased snake that you just can’t quite get within your grasp.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ “You can tell a true war story by the way it never seems to end. Not then, not ever.” I had every intention of reading this on Memorial Day, but once I started I began having feelings and y’all know I try my best not to ever let that happen so I put it on the backburner. Buuuuuuuut, since the library’s Summer Reading Challenge is all about pushing your shelf, I knew I was going to have to finally bite the bullet and read this one.The
Buuuuuuuut, since the library’s Summer Reading Challenge is all about pushing your shelf, I knew I was going to have to finally bite the bullet and read this one.The Things They Carried isn’t really anything most people of a certain age haven’t experienced before.
A generation made up of people like this young man, who did what his country asked and fought in the Vietnam War, but was never the same again upon his return .
I think of you almost every day and this book was almost impossible for me to read because of it.
While I wasn't looking for Sunday school platitudes from a book about Vietnam, I was looking for some reason, some sense which he could bring to bear after twenty years of writing and reflecting on his experiences there.
And yet, it seems clear that he still hasn’t healed and doesn't forgive himself.
For O’Brien, story is the god at whose altar he worships, but so far at least, his god hasn’t lived up to expectation.
Maybe Vietnam wasn't enough.
Maybe all the books he can ever write won’t be enough.
This was the second time I read this extraordinary collection, and it moved me even more now. Poignant and powerful and so damn smart. Yes, it is about Vietnam, but it is also about stories -- and, quite literally, the way stories can save us. I loved every single word. Every. Single. Word.
The things they carried by Tim O Brien is a collection of twenty-two stories chronicling the author's recollections of his time as a soldier in the Vietnam War. About one third ways through the book I realised that this account was not entirely based on fact and that some of the stories were fiction and I did initially think that this was going to affect my ability to understand and gel with the characters and stories but I think the book was so well written that for me it seemed as if I was seeing the war through O'Brien's eyes and this overcame my need to know exactly what was fact and what was fiction.I found this in my audio library and to be honest I did very little research on what exactly the book entailed because the narrator's voice was so amazing that I just got stuck in and what I great book I stumbled upon.
What we do know is that American souls were lost there, minds were entrenched in what they saw and did, and then these same young men came home to a country that spit upon them and called them baby killers.
Separating fact from fiction took over the reading and while we may have thought events were true, we just could not be sure.
In my humble opinion, this took away from the impact this novel once had.Thank you to my sisters for the wonderful comments, discussions, and insight we all brought to this book.
He was carrying a bundle of letters which he placed in the garbage can behind the building.
Mac was in Vietnam carrying a rifle and maybe letters or photographs, I never asked.
I am going to die tonight.” Mac changed places with his buddy, just to ease his mind.
The next morning Mac was asked to pick up his buddy’s body parts and put them into a bag and carry them away.
What would be the lesson that Tim O'Brien would try to teach me?A true war story is never moral.
As a first rule of thumb, therefore, you can tell a true war story by its absolute and uncompromising allegiance to obscenity and evil.The Things They Carried is a brutally raw and honest insight into the experiences before, during, and after the war.
This is author Tim O'Brien's soldier experience in Vietnam.
If you read it, please understand that this book doesn't back down from the "not so pretty "  you can tell a true war story if it embarrasses you.
A true war story is never moral.
If a story seems moral, do not believe it.
If at the end of a war story you feel uplifted, or if you feel that some small bit of rectitude has been salvaged from the larger waste, then you have been made the victim of a very old and terrible lie.
There is no rectitude whatsoever.
There is no virtue.This is a great book about the Vietnam War. It's classified as fiction, but it really is non-fiction in a way.
In the way that sometimes only fiction can encapsulate the truth.
I trawled through a lot of the reviews here looking for others who felt like I did about the negatives of this book, but whilst there are ample 4 stars and a few less than, no-one tells me why they dropped that star.
In my Non Fiction, I like to feel that what I am reading is the vets true emotions and experiences without exaggeration or lies.This book bludgeons both my categories and gives me something that is not quite either.
War is hell, but that's not the half of it, because war is also mystery and terror and adventure and courage and discovery and holiness and pity and despair and longing and love.
The ability of a soldier to develop a callousness toward all life, yet at the same time, an appreciation deeper than any ever experienced.After a firefight, there is always the immense pleasure of aliveness.
All around you things are purely living, and you among them, and the aliveness makes you tremble.
Though it's odd, you're never more alive than when you're almost dead.
The structure is episodes, short stories.
He begins with a piece about the objects each of the characters is carrying.
Then the stories go into each character in detail.
– Highly recommended.P 40…sometimes remembering will lead to a story, which makes it forever.
That’s what stories are for.
Stories are for those late hours in the night when you can’t remember how you got from where you were to where you are.
Stories are for eternity, when memory is erased, when there is nothing to remember except the story.P 179By telling stories, you objectify your own experience.
It was a rare treat, one where storytelling, substance, and craft come together in some very fine writing indeed.
This book is a collection of short stories about the unpopular Vietnam War, loosely (or maybe actually more specifically) written from the author’s own experience as an infantry grunt.
In short, it’s a soldier’s storytelling written with a master’s hand.
These short stories occasionally give way to written pieces from the author that come off more like essays, afterthoughts, and articles of insight.
When O’Brien is telling a war story there is no doubt he is in his element and in total control of his craft.
