https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7901.Betsy_Was_a_Junior
JOE YOU DELIGHTFUL TAR-SPREADING SNOB! WHERE DO YOU GET OFF SENDING POSTCARDS LIKE THAT?
There's a lot of growth in this book, and I love it though it's never going to be easy.12/2009 This particular book makes me want to reach through the years and shake Betsy so hard her teeth chatter.
Also, in this volume we are introduced to that exciting specimen, the Perfectly Awful Girl- to wit:"'Tony is suspended again,' Alice said.'What happened?''I hate to say it, but I believe he came to school when he'd been drinking.
He goes into the saloons sometimes with that fast gang he runs with.''He's going around with a perfectly awful girl.'"But there is ultimately redemption:"'I believe that's it,' she thought.
ASKLGKWRNBOIN I will never not be in love with Joe Willard.
Julia was definitely not a crowd person and always had her sights set on a horizon past high school; she had ambitions, while Betsy had fun and the ability to live in the moment and really love her life.
This book is quite difficult to read in some ways, and I think that most readers will feel frustrated with Betsy - but there is no emotional breakthrough (or 'epiphany') as satisfying as the one at the end of the book.I've always been anxious about the line between being an inclusive crowd, and being cliquish, and in this story-line the author explores that line.
Before long, Betsy (in typical imaginative style) has decided to form a sorority with her best friends at Deep Valley High.
I am tired, ill and annoyed that I have now read seven books of this godforsaken series and not had more than what feels like ten lines of dialogue from Joe. I do not care for Dave Hunt.
What's more, Julia was barely there, so she couldn't sweep in and lift the small-minded feel that characterised this book.
The sorority stuff doesn't sit very well with me either, and the general feel during Betsy Was a Junior is that Maud Hart Lovelace is trying to create plot to fill up the final year before Betsy and Joe finally give us what we've been waiting for.
I feel exhausted from all the parties in the book, and while reading, thought to myself, I'm really going to have to take a break before I start the next one. It feels kind of like a sugar overdose. But my fingers are already itching to reach for Betsy and Joe.
I also really enjoyed Betsy’s little sister Margaret in this book; it’s the first time she felt at all fleshed out as a character and I appreciated that.I’m really not as fond of the illustrations by the illustrator who does these books as the illustrator who did the first four books, although that illustrator’s style would not fit the later books.One thing, if you’ve read this far: For those Betsy-Tacy aficionados: Somebody please explain Joe & Phyllis to me.

A discussion of what true friendship and realistic goals. With love, humor, and onion sandwiches in-between.
The Okto Delta thing still bothers me a little, even though I do realise this is something Betsy and her group needed to go through to see why or how it wasn't a very good thing to do.I was never Tony's biggest fan.
I know everyone else seems to love him dearly, but I never warmed to him the way I did to Cab and Dennie and the Humphreys in earlier books.
Tib being back, the herbariums they finish in one night, Betsy realising they are all growing up because Cab's father passes away, etc.
This book is so hilarious, maybe more so than the other Betsy-Tacy stories.
Okay, maybe it's not funny for Betsy ...
She seems to forget a lot of the hard-learned lessons from the last couple years.
She gets into all kinds of trouble.
Most of the time it doesn't end too disastrously (even if she does have to stay up all night pressing flowers), but sometimes it leads her to almost lose friends, such as with the Okto Deltas.
She seems only focused on fun this year ...
and of course she must learn a lesson from this!Also, it's just so good to see Tib again!
I love this book more than I thought I did. Also I cried.
But they were."Betsy writes out her resolutions at the beginning of her junior year: Stay at home more and take Julia's place around the house, learn the piano, be class officer in school, head up a committee for the junior-senior banquet, win the essay contest, and finally get Joe Willard to go out with her.Well, as resolutions usually go, most of the plans go "aft agley."Major mess-ups to the plan-Joe likes Phyllis this year.
Betsy and her friends neglect an important biology assignment and stay up the entire night before it's due to try to turn something in.
Betsy Was a Junior is perhaps the most fun-filled book of the entire Betsy-Tacy series.
Prompted by older sister Julia's rhapsodic descriptions of sorority life, Betsy decides to follow suit by creating a high school sorority called Okto Delta.
Realizing that she and her sistren are alienating other members of Deep Valley High School (particularly Tony), Betsy dissolves the group and reverts back to her gregarious self.
The Betsy-Tacy books were highly autobiographical and Lovelace perfectly captures the innocence and magic of childhood.
I had the pleasure of visiting "Deep Valley" (aka Mankato, Minnesota) for a Betsy-Tacy convention back in 1996.
After Julia comes home for a visit and reports that several sororities want her to join and the sisters at university are wooing her hard, Betsy comes up with the idea to start a sorority at Deep Valley High School.
It seems like a brilliant idea but ends up leaving a lot of people out, creating a lot of hard feelings, and estranging her from her good friend Tony.
Betsy is having a lot of fun being a junior in high school, flitting from party to party, but that's the problem.
"She stood for some time with the card in her hand before she went upstairs."I love that I don't consider this to be my favorite of the high school Betsy-Tacy books, but I still consider it worthy of a 5-star rating. Maud's superb writing always gives me new ideas to sort over. With this re-read, I mostly focused on the theme of transitions and growing up. And, for my first time, I paid attention to the song that Mamie Dodd plays when Betsy and Joe finally dance together: "The girl I'll call my sweetheart, Must look like you...." Awwww, Maud.
Rereading these books for a challenge. How much do I love these stories? Well, I named my daughter Betsy, so that may make it clear. These are clean, growing-up novels at their best because the characters aren't perfect, but very real. They have problems and heart aches and let themselves and those they care about down, except for the times when they act nobly and do the right thing - just like real people. I loved these growing up, my daughter loved them, and we still enjoy revisiting Deep Valley occasionally.
Lots of Betsy-Tacy lovers find BWAJ a difficult book. Betsy makes many wrong choices and suffers the consequences. I find it very instructive without being preachy. Two life lessons that it teaches are: 1. Often seemingly simple fun and frivolous pasttimes can have very negative effects in our lives. 2. Living for yourself and the pleasure in a moment, instead of thinking of others and endeavoring to serve and please them, often leaves one with guilt, emptiness, regrets or all three. In BWAJ, Betsy and others in the Crowd start to grow up.
I don't know what it is about these books that just draws me in!
Maybe it's the fact that Lovelace has created such a deep, yet relatable character in Betsy that I find myself remembering certain things from my high school experience even though mine and Betsy's were a century apart.
Lovelace just brings out those timeless qualities of life.
Betsy enters her junior year and continues setting goals for herself, learning from her mistakes and finding out who she is.
For the first time, the end of this book had a bit of suspense so I'm excited to start on the next one!
for the first time in my young adolesence as a Betsy, this story helped me believe that not only could I be pretty and popular and go out on dates, but when preparing for said dates, I could even do adorably clumsy things like burning my bangs off with a curling iron, and I would still come out alright in the end! Thanks Maud (no E, just like me!) Hart Lovelace!
Oh Betsy.... lots of lessons for you this year. I'm glad that in the end you remembered yourself and your true dear friend, Tony, who always needed you and always knew that Fraternities and Sororities were a bad idea, for they left people out.
Absolutely charming, beautifully written Young Adult series based upon the memoirs of author Maud Hart Lovelace. A great comfort read.
This is probably one of my favorites from the series. Ah, nostalgia!!!
I wonder if such as thing as a low pompadour exists in the Betsy/Tacy world.
Old friend Tib has returned to town, more successful than Betsy at maintaining her new persona (Betsy suggested that the highly practical Tib act silly to attract boys, which is actually going really well.) Betsy, Tacy, and Tib are together again, along with the rest of the Crowd.
Betsy is highly interested in her older sister Julia's letters home from her first year of university, in which she describes being rushed by sororities.
Tony Markham, freshman year love interest turned longtime friend, refuses to be part of a fake fraternity, and in the absence of the good old Crowd, begins riding the rails.
There's just not a lot of writing out there that builds a romantic relationship like Maud Hart Lovelace builds the one between Betsy and Joe. Her secret, or part of it, has got to be patience, because when Betsy sees the lay of the land, she is gutted, but devotes her heart to other things.
She lets Betsy learn slowly, like we all do, and I love her for it.And that dance, at the end, when Betsy scratches a dance for Joe Willard, but Phyllis makes him leave (typical Phyllis), but Joe runs back in just in time to dance with Betsy?
Again Moo and I found ourselves rooting against Betsy the whole time.
There’s something we inherently love about an underdog, and Betsy is not that.
Particularly abhorrent to us was the whole sorority business and excluding others.
We cheered when it blew up in her face.
We are getting tired of her learning almost the same lesson at the end of each of her high school years and promptly forgetting it.
Moo and I are annoyed at how spoiled Betsy and Julia are, and we’ve decided to move along to a different read-aloud.
A weirdly compelling book.
Weirdly because Betsy isn't my type of girl at all - popular, giggly, with a sixteen-year-old head full of boys, parties, and social plans.
Her older sister, who has her heart practically ripped out with the great question of Which Sorority Will She Join?
-- isn't any more understandable to me.
And yet it's interesting, and warm, and clever, and in the simple language is profoundly well written.
I sometimes had real trouble putting it down.
There are a few girls from my teenage years that I understand better now.
Besty's junior year was very fun to read. She becomes the procrastinater that a lot of people in high school are. Besty also start a sorority with Tacy, Tib, and a few of their friends which make usually popular Besty very unpopular. I enjoyed reading this book. it is always fun to live in the early 1900 for a while.
A sweet read! I read this entire series as a girl. They delighted me then and now. There are so many of these old ways I wish we still kept. However, if it meant all of them or none of them, I'll keep my own time period, thank you.
