https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/98399.Healing_the_Shame_that_Binds_You
So, normal emotions or sensations such as embarrassment or shyness trigger excruciating feelings of shame.One disappointing aspect was the focus on 12-step groups as the only solution.
There are others - you can work with the feelings yourself, by slowly exposing yourself to the triggering experiences and breathing through the shame attacks.
This work is best done in therapy - both because it's easier to trigger the feelings in a context where that is your specific goal, and because it's often a gentler and safer context in which to experience the feelings.
In looking for a therapist, ask or assess whether they've worked through their own shame.
You are expected to be compliant, and worse--to be grateful.Healing The Shame That Binds You explains in poetic detail the not so easy to see dynamics that create shame and guilt in closed dysfunctional family systems.When my life was falling apart, and my family began walking out of my life, because I was no longer following their rules, or thinking like them, deep shame showed up in my life.
I felt shame for not doing what they wanted me to do--which was stay inside a dysfunctional marriage.When I entered therapy and began to learn how my grandparents alcoholism had affected my parents ability to nurture my siblings and I in a healthy and intimate way, my therapist suggested I pick up a copy of this book.
I have to warn that the first part delineates the problem, and the second half delineates the solution.
And once you get to the solution part, there are some great things & it's worth it.
I recommend this book for not only people struggling with depression, but anyone who struggles with self-esteem issues, ANY addictions (from shopping to sugar and all the stuff that's worse!), anyone wanting not to make the mistake of parenting kids (or teaching kids in school) in a way that makes them feel toxic shame, or anyone who had a difficult experience in childhood.
(In the book it was not cancer, but the rest is literal.) Not to kink-shame, but the bro gets way overexcited about shame.Long version: Somewhere in between "phallic and vaginal mysteries" and spirituality as the only thing that makes people human, I stopped taking this book seriously.
And then the stupid extremely judgmental heteronormative ideas about sex started spilling, a section called "Meaning of the Sex Organs" was 100% about penises and a section called "A Vaginal Way of Being" was 70% about penises (and ended with a quote from Thomas Moore: "Pornographic penises are symptomatic of our need to rediscover the phallus, with its religious appreciation of life's mysterious potency.") Completely wrong ideas about eating disorders and abuse were presented as facts.
This is one of the most enlightening and interesting books I've ever read.
But it loses 1/2 a star (and that's generous) for having a title that could send you into a world of shame all on its own.
Could you read this on the subway?
The book talks about how, starting with the story of Adam and Eve, shame has always been at the root of all our undoings.
And yet our society continues to use shame as an attempted form of discipline and reformation.
It's also great for parenting, understanding others in our lives, and society in general.
What this book taught me let me shed shame, and the accompanying terror and anxiety, at least the non chemically motivated kind of anxiety.
There's even a section on nlp that helps you alter those shame spiral bad memories that come back over and over, so they never surface without your consent.
I am not a self-help book person, but this book is beyond good, I recommend it to anyone who's ever said ihatemyself i hate myself ihatemyself and anyone whose perfectionism may have made them part perfect and part crippled.
My therapist recommended it and it did more for me than all the therapy I've ever had.
A hot mess of influences from attachment theory, psychodynamic theory, addiction literature, trauma, etc.
Bradshaw definitely appropriates a lot, but I was okay with it, and the 'self-help' tone was not unbearable.
My favorite chapters were "Liberating your lost inner child" and "Integrating your disowned parts." The former had a guided imagery mediation/exercise that I used with a client successfully...
in it, you go back to your childhood home visit with your child-self say a few words (from future self to child self), say goodbye to parents, take in the love of your friends, resurface...
It was evocative and powerful in session.
Anyway, here are some ideas from this book that I thought were interesting.Toxic shame makes you not love yourself the way you are, so you need something outside yourself to feel whole.
(7) Try to understand how the other person feels and comfort them.Shame-based distorted thinking: catastrophizing, mind reading, personalization, overgeneralization, either/or thinking, being right, “should” thinking, control thinking fallacies, cognitive deficiency or filtering, blaming and global labelingExample of catastrophizing: when a spouse acts slightly frustrated, thinking they are incredibly angry at you and that they will remain so for a long time and that there is nothing that you can do about it and that this will lead to divorce.
I simply don't think imagining yourself as a child, and talking to him, actually does you any good except making you feel like you are going crazy.
Here are some quotes by actual psychologists I found:"Consider the abuse guru John Bradshaw who, through a series of television programs and books, persuaded a large number of Americans to believe they have an 'inner child.' People now literally talk to their inner child, comfort it, give it a name and personality, defend its right to exist, and find ways to get to know it better.
And in doing so, he makes me wonder about his need to convince himself.
And he wants to explain everything with shame, every ill and every neurosis: I distrust any unique explanation, especially when it's about complex phenomena - you know the saying, "When all you have is a hammer, everything looks like a nail".Besides, too much religious interpretations - for me, at least.
And the need to "redeem" what he calls "healthy shame"...
something that smells like Church, and I don't really think it's as healthy as he says it is.Finally, the language is sometimes unclear and confusing.All in all, good ideas, passable execution.
A MUST READ to understand the shame-based thinking that runs the psyche, not just for those dealing with addictions or compulsive behavior, but those who are still living with wounds from dysfunctional origin families...
What lies beneath the symptoms of destructive behaviors, eating disorders, compulsions, addictions, abuse, control or co-dependence issues, and other self-defeating or self-limiting behaviors stems from the shame based thinking and beliefs we learned from the families we grew up in.
All I can say, is that this is one of the best books I've ever read, period.
No matter what you're going through, no matter what hurtles you face, large or small, this book delves straight into the heart of every issue, and believe me, it covers every issue you can imagine.
I don't want to give too much away, take too much away from the book itself by sharing its wisdom, when I think you should definitely check it out for yourself.
This book, is, plainly and simply, worth the read.
While a definite "must read" for me, this one is really difficult. I've been bound by shame for most of my life - the last couple of decades to an incredible degree. Sifting through all of that and learning to unravel those ties is a very slow and painful process. Bradshaw's book is an incredible tool for this journey. I'm about 3/4 of the way through now. Some sections/pages are easier to read than others. I may need to add this one to my personal library. I can see needing to re-read or reference it in the future.
I read this book when I was in college studying psychology, or shortly thereafter. I remember this being a REALLY GOOD book at understanding how shame is such an integral part of our shadow selves. If someone is feeling like they have deep, dark secrets or there is something wrong with them or that they are a bad person, or if they are struggling with addiction this book goes a long way in explaining where that can be coming from and how to heal it.
If shame causes everything, then what does it even mean?According to this book, shame - toxic or healthy - is the root cause of every type of human behavior ever. The writing is grandiose, vague, and so convinced of its own thesis that it offers no more than declarative statements as evidence of itself. Avoid! PS: doesn't help that this guy thinks atheism is a manifestation of "spiritual bankruptcy" caused by toxic shame.
The definitions are a bit too inclusive and vague. Nevertheless, I think techniques listed in this book could be useful in therapeutic setting.
This is a textbook for my Understanding Shame and Addiction course.
It's one of the most helpful self-help books I've ever read.
A deep insight that "toxic shame" is at the core of human nature.
The book talks about what the signs of shame are, how they are induced in us growing up by family members, and how to get healed emotionally and spiritually.
It's an insightful point that spiritual problems and sexual problems usually occur together.
The chapter on sexuality and spirituality is a must-read for people who grew up in conservative families/communities.
Made me think of how when an abuse, such as psychiatric abuse is dismissed as 'nothing' or 'lying' or 'exaggerating', the mind of the psychiatric survivor tries to come up with ways of communicating to the abuse to a society in denial, a society that strangles the truth.John Bradshaw talks about how when people cannot speak, or are subjected to denial and abuse the p112, 'Confused feeling' is then 'converted into a thought pattern.'The automatic defences, if continually denied expression, relevance or the validity they deserve, are repressed and contorted further by society's blind-shaming of the reality and truth of these feelings, expressions and symbolic truths.
Without a doubt a must read for anyone working a 12 step program.
My only wish is that I had access to, and the willingness to read, this book before I began having children.
This books reminds us that everyone is formed from not only our own actions but things that happens and is passed on from our parents.
It offers resolution in anger between parents and I and the ability to see who they were and how much they loved me.
Then John Bradshaw offers you ways to re-member who you are and return to a ONEness not thought possible.
This is the first book I have ever read based on self help and I am hitting myself over the head for not reading it sooner!
What an eye-opener it has been and how quickly it has changed things about my life.
The book has an excellent bibliography, one that I intend to use to the fullest extent.
I am on the last chapter of this book and I have to return it to the library soon but I'm thinking of buying it because it is the most important book I have ever read in my life.
I got a lot out of the theory of toxic shame but the exercises are just ridiculous. I've spent many hours, weeks , months and years trying this stuff but have never had my results from it.... In fact, it just made me feel more hopeless.
Excellent book for understanding the nature of psychological problems, diagnosing their causes, and working towards resolving them.
I read this book at least once every year and recommend it to anyone struggling with guilt, shame, and controlling people. Bradshaw is one of the preeminent writers on emotional health.
Choć brzmi to paradoksalnie, prymusem i osłem szkolnym kieruje często ten sam mechanizm: toksyczny wstyd."- to jest zwłaszcza dobre...s95"Więc gdy Jaś krzyczy, że ją nienawidzi, rozpłakuje się i mówi, że może się kiedyś tak zdarzyć, że on będzie jej potrzebował, a jej nie będzie.
Jurgen ćwiartował swoje ofiary nożem rzeźnickim, tak jak ojciec ćwiartował mięso, podczas gdy matka go chłostała, biła, znęcała się nad nim.
Człowiek owładnięty toksycznym wstydem tak bardzo pochłonięty jest odpieraniem zarzutów wewnętrznego krytyka, że nie baczy na to, przed czym przestrzega go błąd.
Zamiast się koncentrować na winie, spróbuj zobaczyć, przed czym cię ostrzega."s 189"Drugim czynnikiem uruchamiającym spiralę wstydu jest głos wewnętrzny.
Second, I am afraid this is what I think it is, interpreting the shame based on the Adam story.
The whole trying to be more than human, shame as limitations and the covering of authentic self is based on that story.
"The problem of toxic shame is ultimately a spiritual problem.
I suggested earlier that spirituality is the essence of human existence.
Spirituality is about being.
Being is the ground of all beings that are."
I am disappointed, I had high exceptions for the book because of the high ratings :/
I loved the idea of this book but could only get half way through with it.
I never did get to the part about healing.
I felt like it didn't matter what I did, what my parents did, the shame would always continue and my children would feel the wrath of shame.
I felt like no matter how hard we try every thing will shame us and every thing we do will shame our children.
I couldn't hold out until the healing part of the book, if it ever came.
Too much discouragement for me to continue.
I read most of this book and scanned quickly the unbearable parts of it.
It was recommended by someone who found great worth in the book.
I do believe this book would be very helpful to those who carry shame from their youth because of any of several reasons.
The author is a noted psychologist and has experience many of the troubles he describes and knows how to best help those who need it.
To be honest, I just couldn't relate to these things, although I recognize that many people would and need to read this.
very 80s: spend time getting to know your inner inner child (I hope alice miller got a kick back). mentions of NLP and transactional analysis to remind you this is a throwback. bradshaw wasn't a licensed clinician and he didn't hold a degree in counseling or psychology, so this is less a unique approach to shame and more a compendium of self-help advice, with shame the common thread. nonetheless, the book benefited from his liberal (and shameless) borrowing of everything hot in the decade it was first published.
Bradshaw does a good introduction of how shame impairs our life. There wasn't one part of the book that jumped out and caught my eye. It did leave me with an upbeat empowering sense of self. Additionally working with an addictive population, shame is many times interwoven and i enjoyed how the book connects the two topics. Only downside is that the book is a tad verbose and feels slightly outdated compared to "self-help" books that have come out in recent years.
This book played a huge part in my healing process last year and this year. It can change the way you think about your life. It will help heal wounds if your willing to go to the deepest parts if your pain. This author writes with so much authority. I have a deeper understanding to not only my own shame but others. I highly recommend this book. I have it on audiobook also. It's that great!!
