https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/256274.The_Singapore_Grip
Warning: some of the characters in this book are immensely irritating! This doesn't make it a bad book, but it did make me want to strangle Walter at regular intervals. And he's fictional. That's an accomplishment.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
Here the author who most comes to mind is Tolstoy, with Matthew the spiritual descendant of Levin in Anna Karenina.Farrell is Tolstoyan too in his apparently effortless juggling of world events with personal intimacies, in the range of his characters from the mighty to the insignificant, in the fact that his people grow or decline, in his social awareness and moral conscience, and in his sheer ability to tell a story.
From there, it seemed there was too much repetition in the various speeches made by the characters, and a good portion could have been cut out while not losing any of either the narrative or the characterization.Despite that, it's a glimpse into Singapore during WWII that's valuable not just for it's take down of imperialism but for its view of the local situation as the Japanese closed in - the uncertainty, first the reluctance to act and then the panic, the mindset of those who chose to stay and those who scrambled to leave.
What's stayed with me after completing this novel and the two previous books in the "Empire Trilogy" has to be how strongly delivered each story has been.This one deals with Singapore on the eve of Japanese invasion.
For the Blackett family their way of life will be gone forever and their lives and those of their friends will no longer be as they know it.I will say that this book has a "darker" humor than the previous two, but I appreciate a darker humor and enjoyed it.
Each book can certainly stand in it's own right and be considered excellent.
The Singapore Grip is the 3d volume of Farrell's Empire Trilogy.
The end of empire, which seems to be Farrell's big theme.
The Singapore Grip is my favorite of the 3 novels.
Another is the continuing dialogue between liberalism/humanitarianism on one hand and the world trade/big business of empire, in Singapore best represented by the huge rubber conglomerates, on the other.
Because historians note 2 more events significant to the shrinkage of the empire following the war--the loss of Iran and Suez in the 50s, I wonder if he would've considered another volume, making a tetralogy.
It would have needed to be a dandy novel to be better than The Singapore Grip.
At one point early in the novel, Farrell made him do a Bond villain speech while giving an explanation (to an appalled British army officer) on how his firm managed to drive down the selling price of Burmese rice:“ ’You see, the Chettyar money lenders in Burma, and to a lesser extent, here in Malaya, too, acted on the peasants like saddle-soap on leather.
Fat, bespectacled, a naïve idealist fresh from a League of Nations job in Geneva, he is the Pierre Bezukhov of the novel, full of lofty ethical notions entirely at odds with Blackett and Webb’s business practices (the book’s polemics on colonial economic policies are conducted largely through these two characters).

This novel is set in Singapore during the start of WW II, and lays out how the British had taken over the land and labor of the arhipelago for the production and distribution of rubber, tin and palm oil.
Mr. Blackett then has to run the company himself until he finds out what the heirs of Webb intend to do with their share of the business.
He himself does not have an obvious heir for his share of the business – one which controls much of the rubber producing plantations in Malaysia.
Based on my reading of the first two books in Farrell's Empire Trilogy, I expected this to be the conflict of the British and a native population.
Farrell did give us a sort of outline of strikes and unrest beginning in about 1937.
It hurts me to see in these novels the gross egotistical domination of the British.
One industrialist is decidedly the egotist.
Because the time period includes the beginning WWII in the Pacific, there is also the military story.
Farrell spends more time with the characterizations of those running the rubber business, but he spends an almost equal time with the military plot.
There is a scene where Farrell describes the inexorable march of Japanese tanks through the jungle that is so magnificently presented that I could FEEL the movement of the tanks as I was reading.
This is not a spoiler, but the book ends with a minor character sitting at a kitchen table 30 years after the event doing nothing more than looking out at the window and reading the newspaper.
After 600 pages of 1940's era descriptions of war and suffering and BIG characters, it's a peculiar end in some ways, but like so much else in the book, it just works.
A combination of 'The Great Gatsby' and 'Catch-22'. Has everything: memorable characters, action, romance, social commentary, philosophy, and a sprawling historical saga. Absolutely one of the most hilarious reads ever. Wonderfully polished, garrulous, insightful, confiding-in-the-reader-style book; a wry, tongue-in-cheek peek into the lives of quaint, lost, forgotten Britishers and their colonial ways during the height of the Empire. Amusing, exotic, lively. A must for all anglophiles. Farrell's voice is poised, balanced, well-paced, elegant, restrained..a superb read to get utterly lost in for about six weeks!
One very well written book on the last days of Singapore before the Japanese occupation, humorous, and tense, Farrell nails down the times, the economics, the culture, and the city with plenty of characters fictional and historical.
A merchant through and through, who jealously guards his position at the top - while the city slowly falls apart his sole concern is with the continuation of his companies 50 year jubilee (ostensibly meant to convey a feeling of continuity and prosperity to the city in these trying times) and securing succession for his position as leader of the company and a husband for his daughter (these, though overlapping at times, being somewhat disjoint things).Webb, a more senior member who merged interests with Blacket decades before has retired and spent his days on the brink of senility.
I paid a small fortune for it in British postage costs when I belonged to an online Booker Prize reading group … we had chosen The Siege of Krishnapur as a book for discussion but I couldn’t buy it here in Australia.
In for a penny, in for a pound, I thought, and I bought the entire Empire Trilogy comprising Troubles (1970); The Siege of Krishnapur (1973); and The Singapore Grip (1978).
I had never heard of Irishman J.G. Farrell before coming across this book, The Singapore Grip.
His characterizations of those in the colony are often comic, but they also serve as conduits for dissemination of his research on the economic practices of those times and of the operation of rubber plantations in particular, since this is the industry of the main characters the Blacketts and the idealistic Matthew Webb.
Matthew in particular is also a conduit for information about world affairs.
A more scathing indictment of British colonialism, or in fact any form of colonialism is hard to imagine.
With humour Farrell unmasks the smug hypocrisy that blanketed acts of complete immorality.
Yet the novel although overlong is no didactic creed,the author has the confidence to let the reader draw his own conclusions from a deft and very funny satire and social history.Upon his fathers death a young idealist is summonsed to Singapore by the very very venal mr Blackett.
As the young man stumbles around the city's fraught social scene, the japanese army slashes its way through Malaya and explodes the myth of European invincibility.
An almost-masterpiece. Only problem: too long! Very intelligent and well researched. The title: a word play between the Engl. "grip" and the Fr. "grippe" (flu).
What I had read were coffee-table books of Cambodian ruins, predictable pseudo-spiritual travelogues, gap-year tales of hallucinogens and snake blood, the columns of globalization buffs like Thomas Friedman and Fareed Zakaria, and the memoirs of Lee Kuan Yew. In English class, George Orwell was introduced as the author of Nineteen Eighty-Four, not a lapsed imperialist who fled British India; Anthony Burgess was the author of A Clockwork Orange, not The Malayan Trilogy, a comic novel set in pre-independence Malaysia.
Burmese Days, Orwell’s most thorough (and mostly autobiographical) account of on-the-ground imperialism, is powerful and clear-eyed, but leaves its readers without a shred of hope.Earlier this year I took a trip to Penang, the first British colony in Malaysia, and it was there that I finally read The Singapore Grip.
I so badly wanted to love this novel about the last days of the British hold on Singapore and how they got their comeuppance when it fell to the Japanese during WWII.
Anyone reading this review should definitely not take it as a cue as to whether they should add this book to their TBR or not because I tend to be a moody reader and I can see from an objective point of view that all the ingredients are there for a great novel which would also translate to a fantastic movie version or Netflix series.
Farrell is a brilliant writer, and this is the third of his trilogy concerning the decline of the British Empire.
All three of these novels are set in situations of significant violence and danger, yet the steadfast British proceed with stuffy propriety, virtually oblivious to the crumbling world about them, while focused on matters of consummate insignificance.
To an almost preachy extent, he illustrates the negative impact of British imperialism on the indigenous population.I think I liked the Siege of Krishnapur the best of all three, the other being Troubles.
If you have never read a Farrell novel, start with that one.
The entire Empire Trilogy is marvelous, and I'd hate to have to choose from among them.
I took a long, long break between the latter two, and that allowed me to regain anew my full susceptibility to Farrell's deceptively gentle biting wit.
His prose is so smooth, too, clear and varied, and he once again captures just the right surreal details here and there to express his characters' deteriorating connection to what we in normal times like to call Reality.As with those earlier books, it also provides a useful perspective on the end of Empire, which, I think we can all see, is a topic with some real current relevance.Just wonderful.

Third in Farrell s Empire trilogy, The Singapore Grip is also the worst , a term I emphasize is relative only within the trilogy (The Siege of Krishnapur and Troubles being the first two). Farrell examined the role of the British in their colonial empire and set them up for ridicule. He succeeded brilliantly with the first two, especially with Troubles, which is a masterpiece. However, there is a boundary line in satire; if you go too far over that line, the figures stop being objects of mockery
All part of the ethos of the British merchant class.[return][return]Walter Blackett is a caricature; throughout the book, he is depicted as being far more interested in his business enterprises and the outwitting of a major rival than in anything else, including his country.
What s good for Blackett and Webb is good for everyone else, including England, an astonishing perspective of collaboration with an enemy.[return][return]Matthew is the other major caricature, that of the guilt-ridden liberal who claims to see all the evil colonialism does yet does nothing but talk.
Some of the minor characters are far more interesting than Walter and Matthew.[return][return]What saves this book is Farrell s description of the defense of Singapore.
What I loved best was the satirical portrayal of the colonials and their total lack of understanding of the culture around them.
I also loved the potted but very descriptive history of Singapore's downfall in WWII - I knew only vague bits about it, but now have the visual images created by the author, as well as the facts about the Japanese invasion.
My ADD does, however, affect how long I want a book to be, and this does go on a bit too long in the last part.
But then, I suppose, so did the Japanese occupation.
A beast of a book(!!!), but worth the read. A strong finish to Farrell’s “Empire Trilogy.”
For some time the novel follows his thoughts entirely as he explains (as if to an imaginary audience) the founding of Singapore, and how it was founded on British capital investment in the wake of the Industrial Revolution.
The effect is presumably to compare certain fascist trends inherent to the British class system with the capabilities of aggressive self-sacrifice in Japanese militarism – and that may be a good point – but it is also a very novelistic, very contrived sort of effect, and one that tells us more about the mindset of a European gentleman than it does a Japanese soldier.Perhaps the biggest problem is that the novel never quite knows what to do with the character of Vera Chiang, a Chinese refugee who claims to have been the daughter of a White Russian heiress and who has somehow incorporated herself into the lives of the Blacketts and Webbs.
Good but not as good as the previous two books in this trilogy on different instances of the British empire interacting poorly with the people they ruled over outside of their own island.
I did enjoy how Farrel brought back the Major from 'Troubles' and his descriptions of Singapore in the early 1940's was richly detailed, allowing me to really feel transported back through time and space.
The three books in Farrel's trilogy do go together well as a complete analysis of the British and their relationships with the communities they conquered or at least held great sway over but 'Troubles' is definitely the best of the three and 'The Singapore Grip' the least good.
Farrell wrote in the sixties but he is remembered for his novels of the seventies, where they stand as a coda to the British Empire (set in the Ireland of the Troubles, India, and in a Singapore falling to the Japanese).
Some of the most sympathetic characters are the invading Japanese soldiers, but the invasion itself comes across as just as mercenary and considerably less human than the at-least comic British.
Perhaps best of all, Farrell does complete chaos well, especially the chaos of a last minute escape with the Japanese at the heels but thwarted by the Empire's self-important bureaucracy.
I think Farrell satirizes colonial perspectives extremely well throughout the novel, and even radical idealists like Matthew show weak spots especially when the colonized people confront Matthew and complain to him, he gets a little irritated as if only he is allowed to criticize his fellow Europeans.
While I have some familiarity with Singapore, I think people who have actually lived there for some time would enjoy this book even more, because I suspect they could grasp a sense of Farrell’s very specific descriptions without constantly having to look things up while reading, as I had to do.

