https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/497499.The_Door
She is an atavistic force that communicates with animals like no other person can, and who has a magnetic power and physical strength to attract or banish or condemn those beings around her according to her beliefs, moods and whims.In contrast, the other woman --the “woman writer”-- as narrator seems subjected to the will of the strong elderly servant.
If the name of Emerence is introduced at the very beginning of the book, the name of the “woman writer”, Magdchen, which is also Szabo’s name, is only mentioned, in passing, towards the end.
The Door by Magda Szabo is a fictionalized autobiography of the author's relationship with her octogenarian housekeeper named Emerence Szerebas.
A goodreads friend from Hungary recommended this novel to me because she sees that I enjoy reading women authors from around the globe.
Emerence and Magda develop a deep relationship that is not fully realized until the end, including the shared caring for a dog named Viola who comes to see both women as her owners.
Even though Magda is seen as self absorbed and Emerence as cold, over the course of the novel I came to deeply admire the two women as did the people who lived in their neighborhood.
La porta conduce al mistero dell’amore.Magda ed Emerenc si sono riconosciute, nel profondo hanno capito di essere composte dalla stessa materia, parlano la stessa lingua anche se sembrano non capirsi, hanno frequenti scontri, il silenzio è spesso la loro forma di comunicazione.Emerenc seduta sotto il portico davanti a casa.Per Ali Smith Emerenc è una raffigurazione dell’Ungheria.Personalmente, invece, trovo particolarmente affascinante quest’altro percorso di lettura: siamo alla presenza di un io narrante che è una scrittrice, la quale scrive e racconta di un’altra donna, un’amica speciale.
"I know now, what I didn't then, that affection can't always be expressed in calm, orderly, articulate ways; and that one cannot prescribe the form it should take for anyone else."What an unusual sort of book and a very peculiar relationship examined therein between Magda, the narrator of The Door, and her housekeeper, Emerence.
You're not very bright, and you know nothing about people." No matter how charitable a person, what gives them the right to speak in this way to another human being?
Yet Magda wants to please Emerence and be worthy of her love – almost in the same way as Viola the dog would do anything for her true master, Emerence.
And this time, when I found myself standing in front of Emerence’s door, without knocking; patiently waiting on her front porch while listening to her dearest companion, Magda Szabó, I was lucky to witness the masterful weaving of my parting present.
I liked other people's even less.There was something about Emerence.
But soon enough she needed help.
A synonym for “Vulnerability’ can easily be depicted as ‘that one person’ and for Emerence, that person was her employer, our narrator.
Among engaging discourses and occasional dialogues, a relationship of a lifetime flourished between two people which followed itself to the heavenly realms of death.
I’ll soon visit there again.
In modern postwar Hungary, an old woman who is now a famous author recalls a nightmare: herself as a young woman. The novel begins after she has passed through a “politically frozen” time and started to be able to write again and to be publicly lauded for it. She and her husband move up a step on the social ladder. They hire an old woman, Emerence, as a servant. Or is it the other way round? “I don’t wash just anyone’s dirty linen,” Emerence says, coming to see their flat in her “ceremonial” he
“I don’t wash just anyone’s dirty linen,” Emerence says, coming to see their flat in her “ceremonial” headscarf and taking her time deciding whether they will suit her before she takes over the household, turns up for work whenever she feels like it, and bonds with the dog in a way no one else can.
No person is an island, although life forced Emerence to create her own hide-away since she was a young girl of nine-years-old.
The author misunderstood her words, just like the Lieutenant Colonel did not speak the same language as Emerence when it came to expressing their feelings and emotions.
When I open the pages of ‘The Door’ , my heart beats faster than the breeze on my window and my lips are bitten while I take deep breathes, for Emerence brings out my emotional vulnerabilities ; letting my scars bleed through someone else’s wounds.“Sometimes the strongest women are the ones who love beyond all faults, cry behind closed doors and fight battles that nobody knows”- Anon.Indeed, the silent , big-boned lady with an impenetrable face and having the persona of a Valkyrie ; Emerence was the strongest of the lot.
Emerence is a character I will not soon forget, a woman who has seen much, sheltered unbiasedly different people throughout the war, a hardworking woman of the utmost honor and pride.
The title has many different meanings in this book, the literal door and other doors, internal and psychological.
What does friendship mean?
I have thought of this book on and off for the last few days, it is brilliantly written and packs a powerful punch.
I loved Viola the dog and how attuned he was to the wants and need of Emerence and she to him.
Magda Szabo really makes the reader work hard with this book and I for one found the characters and the story unconvincing The Door is a novel by Hungarian writer Magda Szabo.
The book started out promising but the further along I read the more I became frustrated with the character's actions and the repetitive nature of the novel.
I know this is a favorite of many but I just couldn't relate to Emerence's rages and tantrums and never felt I understood her or indeed her employer or their actions and while the book is very readable and there are moments where it captured my imagination but I cant honestly say I enjoyed the novel and hence my 2.5 Rating.
كل باب مقفول هو حد فاصل بيننا وبين الآخرين, وقد نفتحه بحسب أولوية الحب والاهتمامرواية للكاتبة المجري
It tells the story of the relationship between two women: Magda, a writer, living with her husband, and Emerence, an older peasant woman who is hired as her housekeeper.
The fallout of her decision is something she will have to live with.I was drawn into the story easily, although there was a stretch in the middle where the conflicts between Magda and Emerence felt repetitive.
I didn't understand Magda's need to win over Emerence, unless it is simply the desire to unmask what was so carefully hidden.The story asks questions about friendship and acceptance, about aging and dignity.
Also about doors, or barriers that we put up in order to protect ourselves.
What a mesmerizing and quite dark little book. This is about a Hungarian writer and her husband who have an older servant woman who basically takes over their household and their life. The book is mostly about the relationship between two women, and it’s a tense situation throughout but I really did like it!
But, because I wanted to review it, I kept the book in the front of my mind and over time a deeper truth began to emerge for me.The Door is slow because its subject matter is difficult and slippery.
We were both wrong.”  This novel is about the relationship between the narrator, and the woman who opened the door to her.
Over the two decades that Emerence works for the narrator, the women form a sort of passionate friendship filled with drama and complexity like a relationship between teenaged girls.
Things come to a head, a door is opened, and another one is closed.
She also worked as a caretaker for her apartment building, sweeping the streets, shoveling snow, fixing things, (in her 70's!) She took care of the sick, helped the poor, hid people during and after WWII, all without expecting or desiring any return.But Emerence was no saint.
A woman never to be forgotten or trifled with.Magda Szabo reveals Emerence to us very slowly, in small doses, and even at the end we can't know what really made her tick.
She was one of the few people loved by Emerence but it was not her story.
Emerence controls the reader as she does everything else in her life.
Well, after reading this novel, I've come to think that Hungarians do have their hidden gems, just the same as we do.
Magda Szabó's novel was my first foray into Hungarian literature and my first step towards abating my ignorance.
Almost the whole novel gravitates around Emerence; slowly, we come to know her through the words of the Lady writer who hired her.
I had long known that the more simple a thing was, the less likely it was to be understood, Magda Szabó writes, and she is right.I could go on an on talking about Emerence; she is truly remarkable.
Dietro la porta"Nella ricerca della verità sii pronto a imbatterti nell'inatteso, poiché essa è difficile da trovare, e, una volta trovata, stupefacente." (Eraclito)"La porta" è un libro originale e bellissimo, forse il capolavoro di Magda Szabò, considerata la più grande scrittrice ungherese del '900.Vi si rappresenta lo straordinario rapporto, profondo e sfuggente, fra una celebre scrittrice di mezz'età e un'anziana donna, enigmatica e particolarissima, nel contesto dell'Ungheria già comunista.Emerenc, la vecchia, "non si sedeva quasi mai, quando non teneva una scopa in mano potevi essere certo che portasse un piatto dell'amicizia da qualche parte, o cercasse il padrone di un animale randagio".La scrittrice incontra Emerenc per avere un'aiutante in casa, ma a pretendere le referenze è la vecchia stessa : "Io non lavo i panni sporchi al primo che capita", diceva, determinata a prestare servizio esclusivamente a persone degne della sua stima.Era infaticabile nel lavoro, e pareva avere la facoltà di captare realtà che non erano alla portata di tutti.
I found The Door to be an unexpectedly moving and profound story. It tells the story of the relationship between an eminent writer and her somewhat cranky cleaning woman. For much of the book, not much actually happens, but the last third just tore me apart emotionally. It raises ethical issues in relation to friendship, love, death and dignity that have no easy resolution. I have rated this five stars, not so much on how much I enjoyed the book so much as how much it got under my skin. I will be thinking about this for a long time.
In this work of Hungarian minimalism, the narrator is Magda Szabó, same name, same occupation, same childless marriage.
Her, but not exactly her.
She is a witness.She hires Emerence to be a housekeeper of sorts.
Well, that's not exactly true.
Emerence gives them a probationary period, then allows herself to be hired.
The Magda of the novel is an award-winning writer, a church-goer, and almost pathologically self-conscious.
See, there is an importance in the smallest of things.
The Magda of the novel says: In most people there is a dull sort of shame.
Things stalled towards the end though.
4.5At some point during my reading of this, I was reminded of The God of Small Things in that I felt as if this too can be read on two levels and that if I knew more of the history of the country of origin (here it is Hungary), I would’ve gotten even more out of the novel.
As she looks back (the whole book is a reflection), she realizes how unseeing and selfish she’d been toward the demanding, selfless Emerence, a character described in fable-like and mythological terms, who’d tried to teach her some difficult lessons in unorthodox ways, most importantly, how to act with unconditional love.
Written in 1987, the Door tells the story of the strange and complicated relationship between two strong women of opposing backgrounds and personalities: Magda-the intellectual,the writer; and Emerence-her mysterious housekeeper, the relentless worker.Emerence is an enigma who has built up a solid barrier around herself.
How Szabó presents Emerence's puzzling personality is outstanding; the rage that comes off the page, then stops in its tracks to quiet apology is a mark of Szabó's unique style, one that initially took a while for me to get used to, then to admire and embrace.This was a worthwhile story for its unusual heroine, one I would remember for quite some time.Magda Szabó October 5th, 1917-November 15th, 2007
It’s a beautiful story of a co-dependent, toxic relationship between a writer and her hired help where a weird power struggle never seems to end.
Her employer, the writer and the narrator of this (maybe semi-autobiographical) book seems emotionally volatile which makes her susceptible to Emerence’s moods and tantrums.
We suspect this might be a hyperbole but we are still along for the ride all the way to the heart-breaking end, slightly amazed that the narrator hints it’s the author herself talking and at the same paints such an unflattering picture of herself.
Un punto di vista che ingigantisce e assolutizza.E poi, comunque, io mia nonna l'ho conosciuta eccome.Il rapporto tra la protagonista e la narratrice (più o meno autobiografica e che non nasconde le proprie debolezze, piccinerie e insofferenze) è una sorta di rivisitazione femminile dell'hegeliana dialettica servo-padrone, che in qualche modo diventa anche un rapporto madre-figlia, che è segnato sempre da grande intensità e conflittualità; e che segue il ripetersi di uno schema costante: dall’incomprensione, attraverso lo scontro e la ripicca, fino al raggiungimento di un livello ogni volta ancora più profondo di legame, di amore.

In this novel, a writer, very much like Szabó, finds herself suddenly restored to political favor and hires a housekeeper to clean her spacious new flat in Budapest so as to focus on writing.
(view spoiler)[ Emerence takes pride in her horselike capacity for work, her self-sufficiency and independence.
Then there is the pride of the novelist receiving, at long last, a coveted writer's award that stands in her way of saving Emerence in her greatest hour of need.
(hide spoiler)]Read The Door.
Man mano che si va avanti con la lettura, Emerenc si rivela in tutta la sua tragica grandezza, perché nasce un rapporto di profondo affetto, di amore quasi materno nei confronti della scrittrice: e così essa si svela quale è, una persona dalla scorza dura perché priva delle ipocrisie e delle buone maniere imposte dalla società civile, una donna dall’animo puro le cui azioni sono esclusivamente guidate dalla generosità e dall’altruismo, una donna che è sempre stata coerente nella vita con le sue idee senza mai scendere a compromessi: essa disprezza gli intellettuali, i sacerdoti e la politica, odia il potere perché opprime gli esseri umani, ha con gli animali, esseri semplici e privi delle ipocrisie e falsità umane, un rapporto di empatia così forte che risulta addirittura sovrannaturale.
This is a powerful and morally complex novel that details a longtime friendship between two very different women. It asks questions that made me long for my college days in ethics class. I'm so glad this was made available to English readers. This is one I highly recommend and hope to have a chance to read again.
La porta è un romanzo che narra di un rapporto conflittuale , fatta di rotture e riconciliazioni che lega una donna Magda con Emerenc .
Magda scrittrice il cui mondo non riesce a combaciare , con il lavoro manuale fatto di sacrifici di Emerenc , una donna dispotica e scontrosa .
Lei si prodiga per tutti ma nessuno può prodigarsi per lei , perché più volte tradita , forte e imperterrita continua per la sua strada .Un romanzo coinvolgente, vivido e toccante , una storia di solitudine ed amore incondizionato .
The world Emergence lives in consists of hard manual labor with little to no rest.
While Emerence, who in this small town lives in a small flat, is the caretaker for the building in lieu of rent.
Despite the excellently drawn characters, the specificity of the prose, I was disappointed until I realized I was seeing the world of this story through the eyes of a character, the woman writer, who was in many ways exiled from herself, others, and the full experience of her life.
Skilled and forthright like Emerence she worked hard to evoke this world and completed the best job possible.
The novel centers around the relationship between the female narrator who often feels unnamed (her name is Magda but she is addressed infrequently), although we know she is married, has no children, but has had enough success she needs to devote herself to writing full-time and therefore can't manage her own household* and this is where Emerence comes in.
I know I'm supposed to be thinking about "can a person ever be known" and "what is betrayal" but I'm still stuck on "what is the bond bringing these characters together?"This book is at least thirty years old in Hungary, and has been translated into English around ten, but this is the first time it was really known to me.
81), num relacionamento envolto em deslizes e ressentimentos, de mal entendidos e “ciúmes” mesquinhos, com elementos reais e surreais.Magda Szabó, com uma escrita rigorosa, delicada, simultaneamente, subtil e intensa; introduz na narrativa uma forte componente política, histórias sobre o presente e sobre o passado, com segredos e revelações surpreendentes, quase sempre imprevisíveis, com um dramatismo, por vezes, insuportável, em que o leitor acaba por descobrir uma realidade chocante e degradante, mas onde se pode acreditar na amizade, no perdão e na dignidade.
