https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/419103.Sin_City_Vol_3
"You gotta stand up for your friends.
Sometimes that means dying.
Sometimes that means killing a whole lot of people"In volume 3 of the Sin City series, the story remains dark, gory, and creative.
If you like your thrills noir, your heroines very naughty, and your heroes fighting to within an inch of their life, then this is for you!You can pretty much pick this one up without having read the previous ones if you want.
But, so far they are all pretty good, so you should probably read them all.
In trying to help Shellie deal with her violent former boyfriend, Dwight gets thrown in the middle of a developing conflict between the hookers controlling Old Town and the corrupted police of Basin City, with a side dish of local and Irish mobsters.
His penchant for big breasted and scantily clad women is also very much in evidence, with the sole exception of the petite ninja lady of night Miho, the deadliest waif in town.conclusion: not as convincing as the first two albums, and the violence threatens to get out of hand, but I am still interested to see where Frank Miller will take the story next.

The best of the series so far.This time the curvy gals of Old Town have gone too far and killed the wrong man.No. Let's rephrase that. They killed the right man, at the wrong time, and in definitely the wrong place. This guy will be missed.Soon, cops and the mob will be swarming the place. Deals will be broken. And let's face it...nobody wants to see that many 38DDs shot full of holes.Now guess who's gotta clean up the mess before all hell breaks loose?Will there be enough body bags in Sin City to hold all the carnage?
The events of this book were a chapter in the first Sin City movie.https://youtu.be/LdggXkVl8gA
This was my favorite from the series so far. The art was awesome as usual but I thought the story was much better.
Well this was the weakest by far for me. So the storyline is just basically a big old "oh we fucked up let's cover it up" but of course no one can be trusted, everyone is a backstabber, and the ending ends in a "well everyone might be dead" but you know they aren't. I just didn't enjoy this one as much. I didn't like any of the characters, the art makes it REALLY hard to enjoy the fight scenes, and there really needs to be women in this series who aren't whores. Like it's insane...
The Big Fat Kill: One of the most original Sin City storiesOriginally posted at Fantasy Literature The Big Fat Kill  is the third volume in Frank Miller’s SIN CITY series, featuring Dwight McCarthy, Marv, and the ladies of Old Town delivering justice with extreme prejudice to some very deserving goons. It’s another celebration of violent revenge against some pretty reprehensible people, so it goes down fairly easily. It’s also the most creative storyline of the first three volumes, and is featur
It’s also the most creative storyline of the first three volumes, and is featured as the middle segment of the first Sin City movie.The story begins with four drunken men banging on the door of Shellie (Brittanie Murphy), one of the waitresses at Kadie’s Bar, which Marv and Dwight frequent and Nancy Callahan dances at.
Unbeknownst to him, Dwight is hiding in the shower of the bathroom, and when Jackie-Boy goes to the toilet, Dwight makes him pay for his mistreatment of Shellie.This sets in motion a very outlandish and visually-inventive adventure that revels in mayhem, bodily mutilation, severed heads and limbs, Irish mercenaries, dinosaurs, torture, beatings, and of course a Big Fat Kill finale.
Ummmmm...no.Dwight's the MC again, and I don't like him.Also, I have some questions:1.) Why didn't Dwight take care of the men BEFORE Shellie got beaten?2.) Why didn't Shellie tell him Jackie-boy was a cop before?
Like, way before?3.) Why didn't Jackie-boy, when in Old Town, being threated/maimed by the whores, tell them he was a cop?
So don't use that excuse, Miller!4.) Now Miller's trying to tell me that Dwight has feelings for Gail, too?
Why didn't they fill the tank!" Miho saves his life.
She frickin' saves his life and he's all like, "Thank you.
My review for volume. 2: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show... The girls all know the score. No escape. No surrender. No mercy. We got to kill every last rat bastard one of them, every last one. Not for revenge. Not because they deserve it. not because it'll make the world a better place.  Sharp, awesome artwork in simple black and white! Crime-noir with a lot of action scenes and gun fights! Breathtaking gang wars! Hardass hookers and a crazy male lead! Tons of quotable lines! Sassy dialogue
My review for volume.
2: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
The girls all know the score.
No escape.
No surrender.
No mercy.
We got to kill every last rat bastard one of them, every last one.
Not for revenge.
Not because they deserve it.
not because it'll make the world a better place.
Sharp, awesome artwork in simple black and white!
Crime-noir with a lot of action scenes and gun fights!
Breathtaking gang wars!
Hardass hookers and a crazy male lead!
Tons of quotable lines!
Sassy dialogues and a dark sense of humor!
Deadly little Miho doing her super-cool ninja thingy!
Miho.
That...was...EPIC!The story of this volume was amazing! Thrilling and full of badass action!So far, my favorite volume!Of course, the artwork is mesmerising, as always!
Surpreendentemente fabuloso.
É, "Sin City"!!!
Este volume de "Sin City" é qualquer coisa de espectacular.
Vi-me mergulhado no gosto pelo perigoso; mortalmente envolvido pelas vicissitudes da vida criminosa.
"Temos que matar até ao último destes cabrões.
Até ao último.Não por vingança.Não porque eles merecem.Não porque vai tornar o mundo num local melhor.Não há nada de justo ou de nobre nisto.Temos que os matar, porque precisamos deles bem mortos." (in Sin City, pp.
61 & 62)É assim, em Sin City não se escolhe: ou se morre assassinado ou vive-se assassinando.
É a cidade em que o amor à própria vida arrasta consigo o sabor do crime e da morte.
Sin City volume 3 is as dark, bleak, and violent as the Sin City series can be. Despite the few color pages in the front, the darkness of the black and white art permeates it. Noir as a graphic novel.
While I do enjoy this volume, it seems less focused on the characters and more on the action filled plot. Where as the last two were focused on the character's state of mind, this one seems merely content to let the action push them forward. That isn't to say it isn't a good part, the best moments come when there is no action and merely reflection on the events that are taking place. 3.5
I already new part of the story from the Sin City movie but it was still really interesting. I was missing a bit of backup information. But I have to admit I don't now much about the series and it is a while ago that I read the first two books. All in all it was again a really entertaining story with awesome pictures and a lot of violence and good written texts.
More of the same...I'll probably finish the series just to satisfy my inner completionist, but Frank Miller's style can grow tired after a couple of these. His characters aren't complex or rich enough to make this series something special.
The Sin City movie made me want to check the original graphic novels. I found this lone Sin City hardcover at a dealer table at a discount and I just got to have it. I like the story but I found myself preferring the movie over the book.
This was by far my favorite plot in the movie, and indeed, the comic delivers in spades.
Old Town is in trouble, and it's up to Dwight and the lovely girls to save the day.Dwight, now dating Shellie, is not amused when she gets some rather boisterous visitors.
When violence is threatened Dwight moves to teach them a lesson, and happens to follow them all the way to Old Town.
The tenuous peace between the girls and the city is threatened, and either way, blood will be spilled.This comic is a quick read with plenty of twists and turns.
Love Dwight.
Why do we enjoy movies like Kill Bill and Sympathy for Mr. Vengeance (and Sin City)?The art is stark black-and-white only, and might be the best I've ever seen (although admittedly, I'm a graphic novel novice).
It works so well because it lets the story feature graphic violence while maintaining a clean look (in color there would be a lot of sickening blood red pages), without softening anything or taking away form the visual impact.Not exactly a pleasant read, but it's a fascinating visual masterpiece.
By now it's easy to know what kind of deal you're getting into with a Sin City book.
Fortunately though, this doesn't seem to matter.Part of me is glad to see how well the books were translated into film version, as most of the scenes and dialogue are carbon copies.
Although, while the film was incredible, it has nothing on the books.
Miller makes it very easy to look past the one-dimensional characters and instead drenches you in the world of Sin City, which grows and deepens with each story being told.

Sin City is considered among the best noir comics ever created. Based on volume three, I don't know why. The storyline seems to be an excuse for pseudo-porn images of gun-toting prostitutes, and the monochrome art style is hard on the eyes. It was an entertaining short read, but I'd forgotten I'd read it within 24 hours, probably because I had zero emotional engagement with the characters. They were as one-dimensionally violent and underdressed as the cast of a Michael Bay movie. Vol 3 does nothing wrong, but nothing special either.
Further proof that Sin City is the truest movie adaptation of comic book source material. This series might be my favorite in comics. Period.
this sin city volume is a more in depth look at "old town" and we are introduced to all of the girls. We meet dwight's "valkyrie woman" and "deadly little miho" and they're both equally badass! there is lots of action, great art and vulgar dialogue, everything essential in a great sin city comic :)
I love the book, the story kept me hook. The book is full of action and surprises.
"Toisinaan ystävien puolustaminen merkitsee sitä, että joutuu tappamaan aika läjän ihmisiä..."Kolmas Sin City tarjoaa juuri sitä, mitä takakansi lupaakin. Huorakorttelin tasapaino järkkyy, kun tytöt teilaavat paikalle tulleet siviilipukuiset poliisit. Tyttöjen, poliisin ja mafian suullinen sopimus siitä, että kortteli saa olla rauhassa on näin vaarassa. Alkaa jälkien peittely, joka ei mene ihan putkeen.Kohtalokkaassa tapossa on yhtenä päähenkilönä aiemmistakin osista tuttu ja varsin mielenkiintoinen hahmo, itämaiset muuvssit hallitseva Miho. Tämä huorakorttelin hiljainen ja kuolettava henkivartija on kenties ollut esikuvana Kill Bill -elokuvien O-Ren Ishiille. Mielenkiintoinen hahmo.Piirrosjälki on verevää (pun intented) kaikessa mustavalkoisuudessaan ja tarina ehkä inasen vetävämpi kuin aiemmissa. Aivan hyvä.
"Revenge is a dish best served cold" - The Godfather. Prostitutes walking the streets at night makes me wonder, why didn't these young ladies just go to school and learn something new? The climax is reminiscent of "Sin City," but in very-slow-motion. This story is full of action, suspense, betrayal and a whole lot of payback.
Se me pasó muy rápido. Los personajes aquí son geniales *-* Pero me quede con gusto a poco
Onvan : Sin City, Vol. 3: The Big Fat Kill (Sin City, #3) - Nevisande : Frank Miller - ISBN : 1593072953 - ISBN13 : 9781593072957 - Dar 184 Safhe - Saal e Chap : 1994
I remember this story from the movie. Dwight was never my favorite character but I think reading this after the last puts him in perspective. Gail and Mijo will always be my fan favorites. Great story.
