https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14376.Einstein_s_Dreams
Einstein in his mad canter towards discovering the most revolutionary idea in science tumbles right down an imaginary wonderland in this book.What comes out of the recesses of Einstein's brooding on the nature of time and its relation to our lives is a montage of dreams that stretch our imagination to its limits.
But in the process we also see our own natures reflected in these bizarre behaviors that Einstein (or rather Lightman) subjects our protagonist to.While each of the 'worlds' are immensely entertaining and thought-provoking, the real crux of the book comes out in the interludes, which are the only times we meet the dreamer - Einstein.
In the spring of 1905, the people of Berne had to make a bigger effort to check the time.
Back to the people of Berne and the efforts they made to check the time.
Berne has a famous clock tower dating back to the thirteenth century, the Zytgloggeturm (take your time).Every afternoon, the townspeople of Berne convene at the west end of Kramgasse.
At three o’clock precisely, a massive bell chimes three times, people verify their watches and then return to their offices on Speichergasse, their shops on Marktgasse, their farms beyond the bridges of the Aare.The bears mentioned in that quote don’t all appear every day.
The book demonstrates the relationship each human being has to time, and thus spiritually affirms Einstein's theory of relativity.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز هجدهم ماه فوریه سال 1998 میلادیعنوان: روی‍اه‍ای‌ ان‍ی‍ش‍ت‍ن‌ (اینشتین)؛ نوشته: آلن لایتس؛ مترجم: مهتاب مظلومان؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، نشر چشمه؛ 1376، در 112 صما تنها یک چهره از زمان را می‏بینیم، ولی شاید به نوعی زمان‏های مختلفی در دنیای واقعی ما جریان داشته باشد، و این می‏تواند برهانی باشد برای بسیاری از شگفتی‏های اطراف ما، که نمی‏توانیم برای آن‌ها توضیحی منطقی داشته باشیم.
Everyman, everyday, anytown - except that the unique way time operates in each place creates a uniquely alien culture.It's full of dilemmas and paradoxes, and the book itself is a paradox: it's so little and light, but it contains SO much of weight.
WEIRD WAYS TIME COULD WORK - Spoilerish?Some examples of worlds described in the book.
The world repeats itself, precisely, endlessly."* "Time is like a flow of water, occasionally displaced by a bit of debris, a passing breeze....
People caught in the branching tributaries find themselves suddenly carried to the past."* A stop/start world where time is "seemingly continuous from a distance but disjointed close up."* "Time has three dimensions, like space...
I had an awful Physics teacher at University, but one thing he was good at was getting the class to understand Einstein's Theory of Relativity, which has always fascinated me.This book was brilliant.
Or a world where time is not continuous.
These are a few of the worlds Einstein dreams up while he's working on his Theory.
Time is definitely a central theme in this book and few will be able to look at time (or life) in the same way after reading this book.
This book has compelled me to look for fiction written by scientists.
Every tick signifying another segment of time irrevocably wasted on lying awake without good reason, trying to read this book.
Thinking about Fionnuala's sublime review that shows what a greater mind than mine can give in terms of interpretation of this book.
Then flick two pages while thinking for yourself what it could mean, and then read the last couple of sentences to (sometimes) get a nice paradox on the way we deal with our past, or how time can make us alone, or how an absolute lack of freedom provides its own form of freedom.
In this world, a scientific theory is a game.
The clerk's game is more interesting than he had first realized.___________________________________In this world, a scientific theory is a painting.
More knowledgeable people, who see them displayed in churches and museums, like to show off their learning and explain to their less well-informed friends what each halo and wing is meant to signify.
The boy finds nothing to hold his attention, but the girl stops and looks at it carefully from several different angles."I have never seen anything like it before," she murmurs, and takes her glasses out of her handbag."So what's special about it?" asks her lover.
Lightman does even more in his tribute to Einstein, in this glorious attempt to translate the theory of relativity into the everyday passions, concerns and aspirations of the people he meets on the streets of the city of Bern, finding beauty and freedom in the so-called cold equations of modern physics.
WHAT IF time can speed up or slow down, stop like a stalled engine or skip seconds ahead like a child playing hopscotch?
And to some precious few, time is alive with possibilities and wonder, and they dream for us a new universe, a universe dancing to the secret music of celestial spheres: In the middle of a room with books on tables, a young man stands and plays his violin.
مع مرور الزمن ثمة عدد لا نهائي من العوالم نحن نعيش في الزمن، ومع الزمن، أو كما يُقال نعيش دائمًا في سباق مع الزمن. نراقب حركاته، سكناته، أدنى حركة تصدر منه على شكل أقل من الثانية ونسعى لقياسه بكافة الوسائل والاستفادة منه بكافة الطرق على المستوى العلمي وعلى مستوى الحياة أيضًا وهذا هو الأهم والأكثر شيوعًا.نحن دومًا ما نحاول انتزاع ساعات/لحظات إضافية عنوة من الزمن، نحاول أن نراوغه رغم أننا نعلم بضعف قدرتنا أمامه، بقدرته على الاستقلال والمضي قدمًا دون الالتفات للحظات التي نريد إيقافها كلحظات السعاد
علاقتنا مع الزمن لا تعدو كونها علاقة نفعية حينًا أو تنافسية حينًا آخر، لكن في كل الأحوال لا يمكن لها أن تكون علاقة تأملية –نعم نراقبه لكن لا نتأمله والفرق كبير- فقط كي تُخلق علاقة التأمل هذه تحتاج عالم أو فيلسوف أو مجنون، وأعتقد أنه ليس هناك أفضل من آينشتين تجتمع فيه –ليس صفة واحدة من هذه الصفات- بل جميعهن.الرواية عن "أحلام آينشتين" أو بالأحرى تأملاته عن الزمن وعن شكل الزمن وعلاقته بالعالم الذي نعيش فيه، ومع الكثير من الافتراضات لأشكال مختلفة من الزمن تخلق بدورها عوالم أخرى مختلفة.هذه الافتراضات تُدرك من خلالها كيف أن الزمن يمكنه التحكم في أشياء أخرى كالذاكرة (شكلها- وجودها- عدم وجودها) والأحداث (كيفية حدوثها- تكرارها- كيفية التعامل معها في كل حالة) القرارات التي نتخذها وتأثير شكل الزمن عليها (فإذا كان عالمنا يمكنه التحكم في الزمن يعني هذا تحكمنا في قرارتنا، تنفيذها ومن ثم الرجوع بالزمن للتراجع عنها والعكس بالعكس) علاقة الزمن بأشياء كثيرة في عالمنا، بكل شيء في عالمنا، عالمنا الذي يبدو أن كل شيء به له علاقة بكل شيء
Exquisite, Everyone should read this book, everyone should give this book away, it should be thrown from rooftops and forced upon youngsters. I will not venture to commingle a necessarily clunky and didactic summary with the poetic prose that is as much about the feeling stirred from reading each individual word than anything a summary could attempt. Suffice it to say that this book is excellent, beautiful and amazing, if a book is universally capable of changing your life... if only for a moment... this is such a book.
This was for me a refreshing and delightful read on alternative conceptions of time, borne out of playful thought experiments set among the residents of the city of Berne Switzerland in 1908.
Most will have heard of his thought experiments such as illustrating conflicting perceptions of time by observers on a train or at a station as it travels by near the speed of light.
Given that those in motion experience a slowing of time, might a similar cultural focus on longer life lead to a society where they set their homes and businesses in constant motion on train tracks?
Each chapter is a vignette of a world with some perturbation in the way time itself works, and by the end of each chapter I feel the author trying to push some point about how all of these vignettes are actually describing some aspect of time in reality.
I will give it to the author that yes, sometimes we need to see the absurd to recognize the flaws in our thought patterns (such as working on mechanical time rather than body time, or that we should live in the moment and not dread the future or dwell on the past).
In the end, his writing simply lacked the subtlety and power required.The work is structured like that of other authors seeking aphoristic profundity, like Borges, Calvino, where each little story presents a different view of the world, a fantastical idea that twists our reality and how we see it, and while all these different views of the world might seem incompatible and impossible, we come to realize that each one represents a real way of looking at the world and that, when we take them all together, they present a grand view of all the strange and contradictory ways that we do look at our world, from person to person and moment to moment.It was a style taken from the metaphysical poet, like Petrarch, who created a poetic cycle where the combined meaning of all the poems, when taken together, was much larger than the mere summation of its parts.
Es decir, ¿qué pasaría si el pasado fuese inestable, si todas las mañanas cada persona se despertara con un pasado diferente?
La tragedia de este mundo es que nadie es feliz, tanto si se ha quedado pegado a un momento de dolor como a un momento de alegría.
La tragedia de este mundo es que todos están solos.
Cada persona que se ha quedado pegada al tiempo está allí clavada, y sola.Un libro conmovedor que nos hace cuestionar nuestros propios modos de ver la vida y por qué actuamos como actuamos.
Brain candy on the subjective and shifting nature of time, relativity, and human existence. If Calvino's Invisible Cities explores fantasy in geography, then Einstein's Dreams explores fantasy and unreal times.
من مدونتي: ثمانون كتابا بحثا عن مخرجhttps://saudomar.wordpress.com***حصلت على نسخة من هذا العمل منذ خمس سنوات, ومنذ ذلك الحين وأنا أعيد قراءته مره كل عام.كتاب أحلام اينشتاين عبارة عن ثلاثين فصلاً قصيراً, كل فصل هو مزيج من القصة والفلسفة والعلم والتصوف بخصوص الزمن.كل فصل يحكي قصة عالم مختلف للزمن فيه قصة مختلفه ..
وفي عالم أخر يكون الزمن عبارة عن ثلاث ابعاد في كل بعد يكون لكل شخص قصة مختلفه ..
وفي عالم أخر لا يوجد مستقبل ..
وفي عالم أخر يتغير الماضي ..
وفي عالم أخر الزمن يسبق الماضي الحاضر ..
والكثير الكثير من الشجن والجمال واللذة والطرب ..
Totul prin joaca de-a timpul, de-a "ce-ar fi dacă ar fi" timpul-inel, sau fluviu, sau arbore...
Iar ipotezele autorului, limpezi şi delicate precum stampele japoneze, umplu cititorul de mirare şi încântare:"Tragedia acestei lumi este că nimeni nu este fericit, lipit într-un timp al durerii sau al bucuriei.
Tragedia acestei lumi este că toţi sunt singuri.
Oricine se lipeşte în timp, se lipeşte singur.""Dar ce este trecutul?
Iar dacă schimbarea este pretutindeni, cum să ştii acest lucru?""În timp, există o infinitate de lumi.
Într-o astfel de lume, cum ar putea fi cineva răspunzător de acţiunile sale?
Orice fel de timp: inel, fluviu, arbore, ţesătură, iluzie...
Although some of the stories weren’t incredibly captivating — most were and I would suggest this book to any artist visual/musical/literary or philosopher.
In another place time is infinite, each choice a person makes in his life or series of choices splits into separate worlds each world splitting and again from another like a branch that continues to grow.
A world exists in which every hour is lived by a different person — so let’s take the next hour *at this moment* and each hour that every individual in the world is experiencing now— so this one hours no longer just one hour but rather centuries.
I finished this book with a sharpened perception of time and relativity.
I don't remember this book well enough to write a full review. But over a decade after reading it, one of the ideas presented in it has stayed with me. That idea was that there are people who function according to the rhythms of their bodies, and those who function according to the rhythms of the clock. The book suggested that a person can be one or the other, but not both. At the time I read it, I was in the process of shifting away from my clock-based life, and things have never quite been the same since.
As I went through my daily chores today, any words rising to the surface of my consciousness as I thought of the review I would be writing later (which is now; though that 'now' exists no longer) sounded like cliches, easy to speak of Time in that way, as everything we say, think and do is full of references to Time and can be done only in Time.Lightman's dream about the world (every 'world' is a version of Einstein's Berne) in which everyone is immortal immediately reminded me of the movie Zardoz.
Citind cartea lui Alan Lightman, îți pare că te plimbi într-o poezie - fiecare cuvânt își are locul, fiecare frază o completează minunat pe cea dinainte, fiecare idee îți pătrunde în minte și te rătăcește printre posibilități.Dacă timpul nu curge doar înainte?
Sau dacă, într-o altă lume, cauza precede uneori efectul, sau invers, iar "viitorul și trecutul sunt întrepătrunse"?
"Într-o lume a viitorului stabilit, nu există bine sau rău.
Binele și răul presupun libertatea de alegere, dar dacă fiecare faptă este deja aleasă, nu poate exista libertatea de a alege.
Într-o lume a viitorului stabilit, nimeni nu este răspunzător.
This 179 page book took me four days to read.
It was because I wanted to read and cherish all of the novel's short vignettes rather than rush through.
The book is a series of dreams, close to 30 in all, that Albert Einstein is dreaming as he struggles with his theory of relativity.
Alan Lightman, a physicist himself, describes aspects of the theory and time itself through these descriptive "stories".
This is not a book that has what I would call a plot.
Time is the major protagonist.
This novel is an unique experience with parts of it being rapturous.
لننتقل الآن إلى العوالم الأخرى، وتساؤلاتهم حول الزمن، بطل روايتنا هنا هو الزمن -صحيح أن ما يحدث هنا في أحلام آينشتاين ولكن لا آينشتاين ولا أحلامه الأبطال هنا- إن كنّا سنتحدث عن الزمن بصورة شخصيّة، يبدو هنا أنّه غير متزن وغير عقلاني ومتقلب المزاج، ومستفز أحياناً، في عالم يكون دائري، كل ما عشته سابقاً ستعود لتعيشه من جديد، وفي عالم قد يعيدك للماضي وآخر يعطيك لمحات من المستقبل وآخر بلا مستقبل فيه كل لحظة هي نهاية العالم، وعالم بلا ذاكرة كل يوم هو أول يوم وكل قبلة هي أول قبلة، وعالم ليوم واحد، تخيل الفوضى التي ستعم، وفي عوالم يكون الزمن عالق، أو لا يكاد يمر، أو متوقف في مكان معين.
It is about various scenarios (or Einstein's or Lightman's dreams) where time is different from what we have and know it now.
When you read this and you are confused what is happening, just look at that phrase or a similar one and you know what that particular dream is all about.
Einstein was 76 years old.Aside from being amazed how a different concept of time would change this world of us, the lyrical prose of Lightman is also nice to read.
That is because time is "relative" to what you feel.Anyway, at least now I have an idea when people say "The Theory of Relativity." Just don't ask me to explain E=mc2.
When he occasionally meets his friend and colleague Besso, with whom he usually shares his ideas, he is not able to talk about the dreams that consume his nights—dreams set in Bern involving the people and places he sees daily.
However, with every reading of the short masterpiece Einstein’s Dreams, I have a greater appreciation of its complexity, relevance and see outlines of its beauty and mystery.
Time is, at its core, a philosophy that will never be completely understood.Einstein’s Dreams should be read in one sitting, perhaps on a quiet Sunday afternoon, during a lazy vacation day, when the rain or snow keeps you indoors, or under a warming sun.
این کتاب حسی رو به من میداد شبیه به وقتی که آهنگی گوش میدم و لذت میبرم در مقابل وقتی که آهنگی رو با 
أحلام آينشتاين ..عمل مدهش، تأملات في الزمن بكلّ أشكاله، بـ لغة تجمع بين الفيزياء والشعر. هذه رواية ساحرة وستبقى طويلًا في ذاكرتي.
Unfortunatelly 5 stars are the maximum.
This book deserves more.This is a perfect example of writing a jem in only 140 pages or so.
(Paul Auster could read this one and take example).
Each story is a perfectly written dystopy on time.
What a marvelous book.
i had goosebumps while reading it.
i had tears in my eyes also.I read it on the Bucharest - Hamburg 2h20min flight while I actually travelled back in time 1h.
There are two „times“ in the history of most humans, times which are akribically paid attention at and noted down : time of birth (me - 8:20) and time of death (me - TBA).Loved it.
There's not alot of narrative, its just a series of fictional dreams that Einstein would've had as he was hammering out his theory of time in the early 20th century.
Another where as you move closer to the center, time slows down closer and closer to a standstill...it's a beautiful, short book.
"And so, at the place where time stands still, one sees parents clutching their children, in a frozen embrace that will never let go.
And in the place where time stands still, one sees lovers kissing in the shadows of buildings, in a frozen embrace that will never let go.
دائما وابدا يظل الوقت والزمن هما العدو الاكبر للانسان الذي يسعي جاهدا الي التمسك بكل اللحظات السعيده
