https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/667203.Purity_and_Danger
Why?It’s regarded as quite old-fashioned now and the author Mary Douglas, who died recently, somewhat recanted on many of the things that she said.
What’s being prohibited in terms of eating is very often those animals or foodstuffs which don’t fit into a set category.
When objects fall outside those groups they are either reviled or revered.The great thing for me is that I could take her theory back to the ancient world and use it in my studies.
So, whether it was right or not it was reading Mary Douglas which made me think you could do something like that in the ancient world.
This book is, of course, a classic.
I mean, what does one really say about a classic of structuralist anthropology?
The imprint of structural linguistics on this one is so fresh that at times it almost seems like a quaint historical document more than anything else.
Find an opposition upon which some kind of subordinating value is founded, demonstrate that each side of the opposition negatively defines the other, note that the elucidation of limits occurs based on some kind of historically situated socially-organizing principle, and then, the best part, show that a certain kind of play within the liminal spaces between terms is what allows for their generation and regeneration.
Mary Douglas' Purity and Danger?
Oh, you mean the Bullshitter's Bible?
Yes. I've read that.
If by "read" you mean I've skimmed through it to find points vague enough to support a thesis imposed on me by a deconstructionist advisor, then yes, I've read it.
Mary Douglas knew!
So three stars for a text that will save any grad student who has already sunk themselves tens of thousands of dollars in debt and just needs to get that damn thesis done, no matter how obscure or theoretical the point they need to make.
It is an anthro classic about the meaning of purity and pollution. Douglas argues that many of the taboos regarding "polluted" or unclean objects in various societies have more to do with moral and symbolic impurity rather than actual hygiene. For one thing, she argues, things that cannot be neatly categorized into some preexisting and understandable category, are often considered impure /taboo/ dangerous.
Essentially, Douglas is writing about ritual cleanness and uncleanness, and the role that rituals of purity and pollution play in both "primitive" and "advanced" societies.
In the chapter "Power and Danger," Douglas analyzes this idea on the level of social structures:Granted that disorder spoils pattern; it also provides the materials of pattern.
And it's not just people passing through one stage of life into another: those who occupy ambiguous or double roles in a social structure are sometimes thought to be sources of dangerous pollution by the mere fact of their existence.
Gabrys and other waste theorists turn to Douglas as a starting point for thinking about the relationship between dirt and systems and then variously amend her conclusions and criticize her methods.
If we step back from her anthropological approach that assumes rituals are static and instead see cultural practices as existing in open systems in which new objects circulate, we might see that this set of options reminds us that dirt is the object of continual cultural struggle and negotiation in regard to how to read it and what to do about it.
That's what people do: whip up systems from molehills.The next bigger assumption: everyone, everywhere, all the time build those systems from symbols.
(cf Southwest Airlines: A Symbol of Freedom).Analagous to L-S's culture always striving to overwrite nature - frameworks of "purity" protect, integrate, neutralize "danger."Chapter one gives you a fun ride down memory lane - remember the days of Tylor, Robertson Smith, Durkheim, and Malinowski?
Chapters nine and ten deal with issues where the system is rigged against itself (like a certain cultural system I know that loves freedom AND equality), or where the system has to symbolically destroy itself (and those odd situations where "dirt = purity.")
It's what helped tribes to navigate this complex world to know what to eat and what not to, as well as understand and exploit tribal social structures.
It's no accident that dietary customs and social organisation are powerfully tied to the concepts of purity and pollution.This need for ordering the world, to classify it (often wrongly), is a biological bias in how we perceive reality and crept into many other facets of life without the corresponding utility.
These are seen in ancient dietary customs which dictates what to eat not based on nutritional benefits but on ordering and classifying organisms and living within that ordered reality.
Fascinating in its thesis that all societies are preoccupied with dirt and cleanliness.
Especially her statement that our own ideas on cleanliness are arbitrary, and not based on an objective criterium of hygiene, is highly relevant and inviting.
On the other hand, I found the book to be quite the product of its time.
Douglas for examples argues for using the term "primitive" when referring to cultures that are less technologically advanced.
I wonder whether such an "us vs.
them" mentality makes sense in this context, especially since many of the religions she discusses have been touched and influenced by Christianity.
Some faults in methodology (Chapter 3, ‘The Abominations of Leviticus’), but these are acknowledged in the foreword to the 2002 edition (underlining the need to read around the work itself when approaching theses that can be considered classics). Interesting concepts of the interplay between the taboo and the holy, morality and cleanliness, purity and danger; how societies frame their worlds. Readable, with occasional humorous comments from the author. A good look at literary defamiliarization - opening up study of what seems and feels ordinary (i.e. looking at the familiar process of spring cleaning in unfamiliar terms as a secular ritual).
A really cool thesis: all societies have some sort of purity code inherent in their system and that code is not primarily utilitarian--keeping away demons or germs--but symbolizes the order of the community. Dirt is always going to be arbitrarily defined by the society's notion of disorder. Like the cuisine book, this makes Leviticus just a  little  more understandable.After the thesis and some cool explication, it quickly turns technical and thus unbearable for a non-professional.
Wonderful book! This text is great for understanding why (and when)items are considered dirty or taboo. Why is hair on your head considered clean but the same hair fallen from your head considered dirty or gross? Simply because the organization system of the mind sees it as matter out of place!Great for understanding societal rules, such as those for Jews found in Leviticus, and our own uneasiness towards cultural taboos.
If you've ever suspected that "primitive" peoples aren't nearly so stupid as we are often lead to believe, this book is a great place to start. Not only does Douglas highlight the logic inherent in all kinds of cultural systems, she shows that moderns are just as prone to developing such systems as pre-moderns. A great account of human nature.
« Les Anglais finirent pas comprendre l'enseignement de Durkheim lorsque des travaux de qualité, entrepris sur le terrain, eurent élevé leurs connaissances à un niveau que Durkheim avait atteint d'emblée dans son fauteuil. »
outdated, problematic methodology for an anthropological study, but faults acknowledged by the author in the foreword to the new edition. still, an interesting and insightful exploration of a previously untouched subject.
Despite its many detractors, I found this book fascinating. It gave me a new outlook on many women's issues, particularly in studies in religions. It's a must have for anyone wanting to explore purity/pollution taboos.
This is one of my favorite anthropology books, even if I would have preferred less on the Old Testament and more information about contemporary societies and the little taboos of everyday life.
I read this book way back in University and it changed the way I have thought about culture ever since. Not an easy read, but interesting and extremely worthwhile.
Alas, the ideas within were not transferable in any meaningful manner I could make out.
The rest of the book is a long-form contemplation of anthropological subjects loosely related to cleanliness.
It lacks the tight reasoning, thoroughness, clarity of term, and weighting or refutation of contrary evidence or counter-arguments to be called an “analysis” - it is more a monotonous series of claims - claims about the beliefs of other people, and, with very little humility (although far more than was prevailing in the 1960s), the alleged motivations and structures behind those beliefs.
I still find the idea by which this book was recommended to me, that concepts of impurity come from things which do not fit cleanly into a taxonomic scheme, to be intriguing, but I found this book unconvincing.
There are sections which are all citation, where no idea is really developed, and then there are sections filled with assertions and assumptions that demand significantly more citation and justification.Now that I've read it, I would actually recommend reading it backwards.
Data filled, wide-ranging in its scope, and profound in its meditations on the nature of man and his taboos, Mary Douglas's "Purity and Danger" is an important overview of the issue of prohibitions and the sacred from a classic source.
So, while some of the book has been superseded by more recent research, the book itself still offers a worthwhile insight into how purity and danger plays itself out in cultures both modern and primitive.
Appropriate for both the expert and the layman, "Purity and Danger" is a must read for those interested in this fascinating subject.
In Purity and Danger Mary Douglas identifies the concern for purity as a key theme at the heart of every society.
In lively and lucid prose she explains its relevance for every reader by revealing its wide-ranging impact on our attitudes to society, values, cosmology and knowledge.
But perhaps its most important role is to offer each reader a new explanation of why people behave in the way they do.
With a specially commissioned introduction by the author which assesses the continuing significance of the work thirty-five years on, this Routledge Classics edition will ensure that Purity and Danger continues to challenge and question well into the new millennium.
A classic work that revolutionised how Anthropology dealt with concepts of ritual pollution and purity. Mary Douglas criticises and debunks the claims of Robertson-Smith and Sir James Frazer that so-called primitive cultures were, collectively and individually, unable to distinguish between the 'sacred and the profane'. However, Douglas does recognise the vital role both scholars played as pioneers of Anthropology as a discipline and attributes many of their misunderstandings to zeitgeist and colonial context.
I can see why Purity and Danger is claimed as a classic for cultural anthropology but I found this a bit too repetitive and outdated to my taste. Douglas uses the term "primitive" too liberally to describe all the communities that aren't as skilled with technology as Western cultures. Still, I found the book very eyeopening and I can imagine that the theory of pollution is something that can be pretty much used in any essay on cultural anthropology.
With all the inherent limitations of the field and the fact that quite a bit of this is dated, it's still a good start at thinking of purity independent of hygiene, morality, and the other ways modernists have tried to make sense of expurgation rituals.
The language in this book is dated, but the information and subject of study - dirt and pollution - remains useful, even if just historically. One can see in Douglas later shifts toward more imaginative writing in Anthropology.
Good read for a slow shift at work with citation potential ala hypothetical students of [hermeneutical] suspicion(s).
Dr. Douglas, an anthropologist, discusses different functions purity rules serve in various cultures, one of which is Old Testament Judaism.
While the subject matter can be a bit arcane, she manages to keep the concepts within reach of laymen.One example of Dr. Douglas keeping the subject matter grounded is her definition of pollution, something out of place or where it should not be.
The blood is out of its proper place.Among the functions of purity rules include reflection of or reinforcement of societal boundaries, bboth internal and external.
It could serve you as an introduction to contemporary anthropology and as a huge inspirational source for further reading on these subjects (since it brings up loads and loads of other authors), but also perhaps a way to broaden yourself, whatever definition of yourself you may have, and whatever work you do, in the understanding of what makes us xenophobic, germophobic and other normative and structural symptoms of modern world.
(lecture on Disgust)Good luck making your way through a modern yet already classic work in Socialanthropology.
She succeeded in her field, and this is rightfully considered a milestone there, but I think on the "common sense" front there is still work to be done.Douglas doesn't come at you with a lot of highfalutin theory, she just pulls outrageous stuff from the "old boys" and then counters it with evidence from ethnography and critical thinking.
When you read this book, you not only learn a lot of fun facts about various peoples around the world but I think you also learn how to think more clearly or more critically.
