https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5159.Here_on_Earth
these questions and complaints will be scattershot and underexplicated; i'm typing as they occur to me, but since it's likely that no one's reading past this point anyway, i can do what i waaaant.most of the problems i have with this book can be summed up as: who does that?march murray (catherine earnshaw) is 11 years old when her father goes to boston for a conference and returns with a 13-year-old orphan named hollis (heathcliff).
because march does not return home during all that time, even though many of the other events of wh do repeat here; events that would cause a normal person to buy a plane ticket: hollis marries richard's sister, they have a kid, wife and kid both die.
I'm technically not even done reading this book yet and I'm seething with hate for it. Seething!!The entire plot of this book is that love gives you license to be selfish, irresponsible and act like a jerk. I hate the two main characters SO MUCH. They deserve everything that happens to them. I can see the conclusion coming a mile away as well. It's taking everything I have to finish it. Oprah - you got this one SO wrong! Awful. Don't bother.
[In] Here on Earth, she plumbs the interior lives of, among others, a drunken recluse, a heartsick teenage boy, an angry daughter, a near madman, a cuckolded husband, and three wounded women, with such modesty and skill that she seems to witness rather than invent their lives.”Sadly, the book did not explore the characters of the men in pain enough.
When March Murray, and her teenage daughter Gwen, after nineteen years, returned from California to Fox Hill Farm, to attend the funeral of an old family friend, Judith Dale, more than just a grave were dug in the cold October weather.
Now this isn't a book for everyone, not everyone can stomach so much passion and long lost love.
Candy apples - bring em on!).I was immediately whisked away and transported by this book - devouring the pages in three days - which is quite a feat with a 15 month old, let me tell you.
It is about long lost love and passion, but it's also about parent-child relationships, the role of parent as exemplar for our children and the expectations we have of our parents.
i may have become a snob after reading so many important books in the past three years,but this writing is terrible.
i have a copy of her LOCAL GIRLS which i may read cause i feel i should read books i own.
i read her TURTLE MOON years before i became a reading snob and remember little about it except i think it moved me abit.
what to read next ?
i am away from my library and may have to read my son s college lit book to pass our remaining time here i come..w.b. yeats,t.s. eliot, ..happy reading,joe.
Alice Hoffman weaves an interesting tale,though my first book by the author and though I rated it 3stars,I will like to read another of her novel.
Imagine "Wuthering Hights" written by someone waaaaay less talented than Ms. Bronte. Imagine an afwul male character whom we don't learn to hate through splendid characterization, but by pure manipulation. Imagine a lot of tell, very little show. Imagine some very disgusting sex. And that's all.***I didn't like "Wuthering Hights", because well, there's very few likable things about it, still, I didn't like it in the weirdest of ways: I couldn't put it down until I finished it, that's how compelling it was. This one is just plain bad.
The renew their love, but Hollis is bent on revenge and abuses her physically, emotionally, and sexually.
Besides the physical abuse, Hollis cheats on March once he has her, completely disregarding any notion that he may actually love or feel passion for her.
To complete the characterization of Hollis, Hoffman should have given him a long Snidely Whiplash mustache to twirl.[return] [return]Instead of spending so much time trying to get the characters to fit their "Wuthering Heights" mold so closely, Hoffman should have instead used the novel as a guide for exploring the relationships in her story.
This is a dark romance. A woman goes back to her home town for a funeral, taking her teenage daughter with her. The woman comes back into contact with an old lover who had a strange hold over her when she was younger. It's an oddly compelling story.
We are reading this book for my book club this month, and from the start I was skeptical.
Oprah picked this book as her book club pick back in 1998 and I honestly don't know what she was thinking.
The mother rekindles her love with a old flame, Hollis, who is hands down the worst character I have ever read in a book ever.
I know the book has beautiful metaphors- and surely it will provide a great deal of discussion during book club- but I finished the book this morning and I still can't shake the feeling it left me in: totally and utterly depressed.
But she also returns to a world in which, as a young girl, she was immersed into a love so deep that she's never been able to get over it.
When the boy she'd loved so deeply never returned for her, she'd married another and moved on, her baby girl the one thing holding her back from going back to him for so many years.
As March becomes pulled further away from herself, her daughter Gwen, a troubled child, finds solace in a horse and a love in the boy she never knew as her first cousin.
Parts of this book were very good - it sort of wraps you into this small town, nostalgic way of life, that I really appreciated.
I just am not convinced, can I say that...I didn't really like the turns the characters took, and I didn't really feel the characterization very much.
Not all of the characters were developed in such a way that I really believed it...Also, some of the descriptions (esp.
of small, rural, agricultural ways of life) were too romanticized.
This quite possibly rates the worst book I have ever read.
The characters range from stupid to hedonistic The only reason I finished was that I hated the main character so much, I was hoping to read of his undoing.
Also everyone around turns a blind eye to this woman's suffering, which I found totally irritating.I honestly have never been so mad at myself for reading a book.
Hope this review helps someone else to decide to pass on it.
This was a quick read for me. A scary portrayal of infatuation, fear and love. A sad portrayal of what happens when someone loves 2 people. I really like the character, Gwen - I thought she was a great representative for teenagers.
Naravno, sve prave i velike ljubavi ne traju dugo, pa tako je i ova imala rok trajanja.I evo...nakon dvadesetak godina, March ponovo proganjaju duhovi prošlosti, te ponovo nalazi tog istog dječaka, a sada odraslog muškarca kojeg i nakon toliko puno vremena nije prestala voljeti.Međutim, taj dječak, a sada odrasto muškarac više nije isti.
Da li smo mi žene stvarno tako naivne da ne prepoznajemo neke signale koji nam kazuju da je sve pogrešno i da se ne treba boriti i voljeti neku osobu koja to nije zaslužila?
Okay, okay -- I saw her setting the climax up a mile away...
but this kind of slap-bang happy ending really needs more set up than other, more logically likely endings.
And besides the less-than-immaculate setup, she SKIPPED THE ACTUAL CLIMAX.
For shame!So we all know that endings are the hardest part, and for a book this wonderful, okay, I can't help loving the book anyway, but GOSH DARN IT, you just don't skip such a critical juncture in the book, especially when you've been hopping in and out of that character's POV for the entirety of the novel.
Unfortunately, this is the first Alice Hoffman novel I read...I only forged ahead to a couple of her other works through encouragement from my aunt.At first the book seemed slightly promising; a woman and her daughter returning to a childhood home that holds a lot of memories.
And March is still passionately in love with this guy?Their relationship grew more and more painful to read, culminating in it being downright revolting.
March's savvy teenage daughter Gwen, who sees everything her mother blindly ignores, is one of them.
The bond she forms with the horse and her relationship with the gentle Hank, another redeeming character, are sweet.
Recognize this story?
Wealthy father brings home street urchin, sister likes him, brother not so much.
Already damaged by life on the streets and experience in juvie, he is pushed over the edge by the brother's rough treatment.
Obsessed with acquisitiveness, he takes off for parts unknown, makes his fortune, and returns to buy up everything that belongs to those who've annoyed him.If you guessed Wuthering Heights, you'd be correct - one reviewer drew that comparison, and rather gushingly.
I got the theory, but couldn't buy into the result.
Alice Hoffman has written a new version of Wuthering Heights, this time set in a remote, modern day New England village.
Hollis is the dark-eyed orphan heartthrob brought into the Murray household.
March is the spitfire who falls insanely in love with Hollis (and he returns the favor).
Alan is March's slimy brother who persecutes Hollis.
By and large, Hoffman follows the original plot faithfully, but it is her own lyrical prose which puts a pleasant spin on Brontë's dark tale of obsessive love.
Many readers have observed that Wuthering Heights's story of mad love is a bit over the top.
Yet in Hoffman's version, Hollis and March's intense, life-long romance is perfectly credible.
Although this is a good read, it is a somewhat odd book. It deals the underside of "love" - in this case, obsession, control and abuse. This is the mother's story. The daughter's story deals with redemptive of qualities of love. And other supporting characters demonstrate other sides of love: selfless love, forbidden love and disappointed love. As I write this, I realize I should have liked this book much more than I did, given the themes. The problem may be that the primary character - the mother - is not someone you actually connect with or root for.
DNF at page 38.This is a modern version of Wuthering Heights. I liked Wuthering Heights but I didn't love it. I'm glad I read it because it is a different classic, and a different romance. The fact that I buddy read it helped a lot. Now, I don't think I can't go through this again. I disliked every minute I spent with this book. This is the second book I tried by Alice Hoffman and the second I DNF. Maybe she is not my type of author. I still have some by her in my TBR. Let's see.
It was set in a stereotypical small town with very predicable characters such as the outcast, the gossip,and the recluse.
As far as fiction goes, this novel brought nothing new to the genre and only succeeded in boring me with shallow characters who had no qualities that made me feel strongly about them.
Here on Earth could have been a powerful novel about domestic issues and small town affairs but because it lacked good characterization and contained far too many cliches and stereotypes, it won't be on my list of recommended reads.
I realized that many comparisons are made between this book and Wuthering Heights by Emile Brontë.
Let me just say that I read it in highschool and strongly disliked it - its not nice to say hated, you know.
I must admit it seems like Hoffman stole some of her basic plot from Brontë but that doesn't mean that the two books are truly similar.
So for those of you who have some time on your hands, pick this book up.
And if you have read the "classic" Wuthering Heights let me know if you think they both have the same appeal.
If you haven't read it, don't waste your time.
I wasn't expecting much from this book to begin with, but my god, this was so bad! It had no creativity or originality; it was so generic it wasn't even funny. And the dialogue all sounded choppy, forced and artificial. The characters were totally unmemorable, there was very little imagery and it dragged on at many parts.
This is true of Here On Earth, which is the Bluebeardian story of a woman who comes back home and revisits the desperate love affair of her childhood.This book gives the first impression of being a romance, but it doesn't take long before the dark, haunted aspects of the characters and the story warn the reader that something isn't quite right.
What started out as a tale of two lovers against the world begins to look more like a consuming and violent power struggle, or perhaps a dark fairy tale where the heroine falls asleep in the den of a monster and we're desperately hoping she'll wake up in time.Hoffman adds further drama and interest by dragging the main character's teenage daughter along for the ride.
3 stars.
Overall, I was disappointed with this book.
We are introduced to March Murray, who has returned home to attend the funeral of her childhood housekeeper/nanny.
After the funeral, she makes the decision to stay indefinitely, as she has reunited with her teenage flame Hollis.
Theirs is a complicated love, and for the remainder of the book it spirals out of control.
Along the way, we encounter a variety of eccentric characters.
I found the characters in this book to be weak, and I think this is what brought my rating down.
Hoffman is a great writer~ I look forward to reading more of her works.
Complicating things are Hank, the son of Hollis's enemy whom he's raised since infancy, and Gwen, March's 15 year old daughter.
It's this horrible youth that hardens an already stoic nature, and Hollis grows into a bitter, angry man who sleeps with half the townswomen and smothers March with his sick love.
What March believes is love with Hollis is simply nostalgia for the boy she loved as a girl, and his brand of love is nothing but desperation to dominate the woman who got away.
Why does March believe she loves Hollis?
March was the one that got away, the girl who loved and petted him through his horrific childhood, and ultimately chose another man.
He did, however, grow up here too, and has reason to be concerned about Marsh's trip.When March was small, her father arrived one day with a boy a few years older than she, Hollis, who had apparently been scraping out a living on his own.
March's older brother Alan feels a great deal of resentment at this intruder and never fails to find ways to remind Hollis that he is not really a member of the family.
There comes a time when Hollis demands March's attention in a way that irritates her and she tells him to go away.
Hoffman did a wonderful job in writing this book.
The characters have a lot of depth and are brought to life with her vivid words.
Her writing style in this book is very descriptive and sometimes poetic.
I hate how this woman treats her life so carelessly; I would elaborate but I don’t want to ruin it for those who have not read the book.
There are times you just want to smack her for being so selfish!
And Hollis, he is so revengeful and mean.
I really enjoyed this book although it made me really angry at times.
This novel portrays a rather dark side of love that borders on an obsession or a sickness in the case of Hollis and March.
It also delves into regret, secrets, friendship, choices, fate, shattered dreams, coming of age, the past,and life in a small town where everyone knows everyone's business.
March returns to the small town in Massachusetts to attend a funeral of the woman, who was like her mother, after being gone for 19 years.
During her stay she encounters the boy Hollis, now a grown man, from her past that was her first reckless love.
