https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7930335-beautiful-redemption
3.5 starsThis one was better than the last. Mostly cause Ethan is dead. After three books, I thought, surely Ethan and Lena would run out of ways to confess their love?? It didn't matter if we were dead or alive. We could never be kept apart.  Apparently not.  Because, now that Ethan is dead, we have a whole new angle. Pining.  Even when I didn't know anything else about where I was or what I was supposed to be doing. You were my Wayward, even then. Everything always brought me back to you. Ever
After three books, I thought, surely Ethan and Lena would run out of ways to confess their love??
Because, now that Ethan is dead, we have a whole new angle.
After all, when has that idea ever gone wrong?From then on, Lena and her friends spend all their time following arbitrary and convenient rules to bring back her dead boyfriend.As usual, the only reason I'm continuing this with this series is because the authors can write absolutely amazing side characters.Well...side character.
We have a new narrator (Khristine Hvam) for Lena's parts.
the cover of this book is always going to remind me of Hurricane Sandy, because of the closeness of both, and because of the way the stairs.
The Day we all fall down these Gothic stairs, arriving finally to the end of Beautiful Creatures.Thanks to all who read my pre-review rant about this book, and liked it.
It's winding down, down, down...A green winding staircase.
And all that was going through my head for the next week was...(view spoiler)[Shit, authors, you lay a ONE hand on my Ethan in the next book, you're both DEAD.
****FINAL RATING: 3.90 STARS**** CATCHALL Wow. My first thought after finishing this was, what a stunning finale to the Caster Chronicles. I feel like I've been reading these books for years. They're so fantastic and gorgeous. This series just…wow. I mean, wow. I'm speechless really. Was this book perfect? Of course not. But I loved every moment of it nonetheless. It made my heart ache in a good way. I've become so connected to these characters, to this universe, that I have really found a home
He also says the most random and weird things, which of course just make my entire life.RIDLEYRidley is Lena's cousin, but I didn't feel like making a separate header, so whatever.
I love how she changes throughout the books especially.XAVIERXavier is an entirely new character that we meet in this book.
But clearly I loved this novel, so I imagine I have mostly good things to say.Well, there was definitely excitement to this plot.
Like, some things just worked out way too nicely.
I love the way they describe the worlds their characters inhabit, and the gorgeous places around them, so vividly and completely.
I read the whole thing in one sitting, and while in certain parts I wanted to sleep, it was a fun journey mostly.The only thing that REALLY bugged me about this book was one particular death scene (view spoiler)[You thought I'd actually tell you ;) (hide spoiler)] that really unsettled me and felt completely unnecessary.
(hide spoiler)]Theory #2: (view spoiler)[He is dead and the rest of the book is spent by Lena trying to figure out how to bring him back to life.
What also sucks is the fact that her narrative and Ethan’s narrative have the same exact voice, but that’s not Lena’s fault, of course.So what I'm saying in the end is that I applaud the effort the authors put in this book, because I truly believe that writing a book is a difficult, time-consuming and exhausting job, no matter what the end result looks like.
At the same time, if you can’t create likeable, clever characters, but end up making them look stupid because of your lack of writing skills, don’t write the book.
I recently reread Beautiful Chaos (my eyes were totally mistified by the ending) and I've come up with some new predictions.
If Ethan was going to die, the authors would've ended the series at three books (which would have made me bomb their houses.
They're pretty cute together.4)  Ethan's mom will come back, or reveal that she was never actually dead.
And he was mysteriously sane in Beautiful Chaos, so I think he has some epic end-of-the-world tricks up his sleeve for the next book.
I think the book will end on a bittersweet note, but I don't know how much of which will come across.So, there you have it.
I just feel so overwhelmed by emotions right now, I don't really think I can think clear, and even if it was the case, and even if I often revise my opinion for days after the reading, I don't think how my opinion of this book could ever change.On a more technical matter, (view spoiler)[I loved that both Lena and Ethan got to tell us the story, from each side of the universe - ours and the other.
This was totally unexpected!I had a very general idea as to where this story was going, I even gave a little prediction in my review of Beautiful Chaos.
But man was I wrong!This book just blew me away.
It was so different- different is what caught me in Beautiful Creatures, so I guess that's what did it this time around as well.I love how it all played out, how every thing tied so neatly into this final installment of the Caster Chronicles.
To be honest I was a bit disappointed with the last installment in this series.
The authors used multiple points of view in this book switching off between Ethan and Lena.
As it was the book felt stagnant and the plot was inevitable and predictable.
I wish certain plot points had been further elucidated such as what happens in the Far Keep and to the Keepers after Ethan's adventure there.
Additionally the physiological changes Ethan and Lena experience were not explained.
For anyone who has read all the prior books I would say go ahead and finish the series but don't get your hopes up too high.
Every single book was amazing and I'll forever cherish them.I won't lie, it was the most painful book in the series but at the same time it was the best and the most beautiful just like the first half of its title suggests.Ethan found his way back and there was a price paid (of course there would be) but everything ended beautifully and tragically all the same just as I was sure it would.
Thanks to them, we got to experience another amazing world and we can always re-read the books if we want to!
The more I read about these people and their lives and the world of the casters and the mortals it only got better.This book just had a way of keeping me captivated - and after the ending of the last book I was dreading this book.Towards the end this book just gets extremely and touching and I've grown so fond of this world- like any series it gets so hard to say goodbye to the characters after going through so much with them.I give this book 4 stars, and if you've read the last book, try to finish this one I think it's just as good as the last.(view spoiler)[Damn it- the last 2-3 chapters of this book broke my heart.
GRRRRR.... Why did you have to stop it when Ethan jumps! Why! It took all I had not to cry. I love Ethan and Lena and if you Seriously kill Ethan, Lena will go CRAZY. Probably even worse than when she thought Macon was dead! You can't continue the series without Ethan it is crazy! Please please please please DO NOT KILL ETHAN. Or kill him and let the Wheel of Fate bring him back to life! But he has to live. If he dies they all die, because Lena will lose it and go crazy!
I'm feeling so...you know, disappointed...Full review posted!Nice quotes, bad content.  “I guess that’s the thing about a hero’s journey. You might not start out a hero, and you might not even come back that way. But you change, which is the same as everything changing. The journey changes you, whether or not you know it, and whether or not you want it to.” Spoilers from this and the books before!!HUGE DISAPPOINTMENT This is the last book of the series and the worst (at least for me). It’s the s
Writing style: I haven’t been a huge fan of it but the “accent” was impossible to understand.The so annoying characters: Since the first book I couldn’t stand Ethan (I’m not stereotyping) but every time I read a chapter with his POV I couldn’t avoid picturing him as a girl instead of as a boy.
She’s been eaten by the Greats” “Never mind, I’ll be okay”Lena: “Let me kiss you, Ethan, I’ve missed your stupid decisions so much”Ethan: “So have I, Lena.
I’ll make babies with you for the rest of my life.” 
Pre-Reading Review MELT . DOWN .  (view spoiler)[OH MY GAWD .THIS STUPID BOOK .IS COMING OUT .ON MY BIRTHDAY !!!!!! I'm trying not to cry . Like . Things just got so serious .My life just got so real .I'm so depressed .Book-depression .Raise your hand if you know what I mean .I mean just like BOOM GOES YOUR OVARIES .LIKE THE FRANKS MAN . I JUST FINISHED READING BEAUTIFUL CHAOS AND HERE I'M BOUT TO CRY LIKE THE FRANKS, ETHAN JUST DIED THAT WAS BEAUTIFUL BUT I'M SO MAD BRO , BLANK PAGE AND IT'S
(view spoiler)[OH MY GAWD .THIS STUPID BOOK .IS COMING OUT .ON MY BIRTHDAY !!!!!!
Post-Reading Review
REVIEW FOR THE ACTUAL BOOK: This was an AMAZING end to the series!Yes, I said end!THIS IS THE LAST BOOK!!! Wait! No! Don't be sad!It was a satisfying ending, not one of those endings that make you go "OH MY CHEESE! What will happen next?! I NEED TO KNOW!!!!". Believe me I've read some of those "endings" to series and they did not make me happy! But this book? Again, it was satisfying!So I guess you wanna know about the book?Well... i'm not going to give things away but I will say this:-It's dif
i'm not going to give things away but I will say this:-It's different than the other books in the series, but different in a good way.-Yes, there are some slow and boring parts but it all works out!-Did I say that it had a satisfying ending?I know that some of you are going "grrrrrrrrrr!
THE MOVIE POSTER!!!!IT IZ HERE!!!!!*Jumps up and down with excitement*Original "review":WHY WORLD?WHY MUST YOU MAKE ME WAIT SO LONG?AFTER AN ENDING LIKE THAT!WHY MUST YOU TORTURE ME SO?I seriously need a time machine just so I can travel to the future and get this book.
I wouldn't have given it any stars were it not for the fabulous array of supporting characters - Link, Amma, Ridley, Macon...they are the only reason I kept reading this series after the second book.Lena and Ethan are one-dimensional in the sense that their love is all-consuming and all-encompassing.
OH and I just remembered; right at the end, Ethan informs us that since he came back from the Otherworld he and Lena can touch without his heart stopping.
It's better if you stopped reading at the end of the last book and consoled yourself with the fact that actually, Ethan came back to life and they lived happily ever after because...well, why not.
i cried myself to sleep last night.&a bit this morning while getting ready. i mean;WHAT. THE. FUCK?how can you continue the series if ethan`s dead?/: at least, that was the impression i got, i`m still a little confused on it.either way, the ending broke my heart.i cried for about the last 200 pages, when ethan figured out about the other half of his soul.i *knew* it was himm/: the one who is two, i mean.i`ve never been so devastated about a book before D: i need this *now* 3
i cried myself to sleep last night.&a bit this morning while getting ready. i mean;WHAT. THE. FUCK?how can you continue the series if ethan`s dead?/: at least, that was the impression i got, i`m still a little confused on it.either way, the ending broke my heart.i cried for about the last 200 pages, when ethan figured out about the other half of his soul.i *knew* it was himm/: the one who is two, i mean.i`ve never been so devastated about a book before D: i need this *now* 3
If the ending to Beautiful Chaos left you in a fetal position, sucking your thumb, this book may or may not make up for that.
Well, this book wasn't up to scratch - sadly.Beautiful Redemption finds Gatlin mourning the death of our boy - at least, those who were in the know.
And while I'm happy with the way this book ended, I can't help but feel like it was entirely anti-climactic.
The appeal of this series also extends to their colourful secondary characters.Over all, I think Beautiful Redemption was a good enough adieu to a series that I've come to love.
The not so good parts are th first half of the book, where Ethan is trying to figure out what it's happening to him and accept it and then go back and see everyone and try to communicate with them and then finally (FINALLY) learn that he can go back and that's when the action starts.
Some chapters were dragging the story and some others were okay, but this book was defenatelly not the best end you could get for this series.
I should say, obstacles that were very conveniently removed without much fight and Ethan was allowed to go on his merry own way.SPOILERS(view spoiler)[Case in point:When he encounters Sarafine in the labyrinth: he doesn’t actually have to fight the Most Powerful Dark Caster in the World (or second, depending on which author is writing at that moment).
If it wasn’t for the bad poetry snuck in there, I never would have guessed that it was Lena’s turn to tell a story.Ethan keeps fighting to get back to the Mortal world to see Lena and Amma (just switch the order once in a while) but often forgets to mention his father.
Then they all merge their powers and help Amma and the Greats pass the book to the Otherworld to get it to Ethan.Cut back to Ethan, and he enters the Keep to find he must go through a Labyrinth and fight to the death.
(Of course, we all know it's because, just like Ridley, Dark casters actually can feel things and she wants to protect Lena in the long run.) Of course, Ethan triumphs over Angelus and returns home -- at the cost of Amma, whose deal with the bokor in Chaos was to trade fates so "her boy" could live.
Must find out what happens to Ethan, and Lena, and Link, and John, and Liv, and Ridley, and Amma, and Macon .
Abraham and Hunting didn't even seem to put up as much of a fight and John gets to stay with Liv. Then once Ethan has the Book of Moons he gives it to Xavier and is let into the Far Keep gates.
Don't get me wrong, the book was enjoyable and I'm glad I read it, but maybe I finished it too quickly?
But, again, I still loved the series and I can't wait to see the movie.
LOLAnyways, way to end the book series.
But I loved the 2nd half with Lena's POV.
It was a nice change, reading from another character's POV.
I just wished there was more to the story after Ethan got back.
MY REACTION BEFORE READING THE BOOKI got a couple of theories.
The sole reason I gave this a 4 stars was because now this series is finally over. And the ending was the EXACT SAME THING!
I get it if people pre-rate a book five stars. But I'm just curious as to why people have added it to their to read lists if they've pre-rated it one star? It makes no sense. OH MY GOD. This was a fantastic series ender, something you don't see too often. Sad in all the right spots, happy in the right ones too, and not confusing or too arbitrary. Wonderful.
En el tercer libro de la saga, creí que acabaría de otra manera la historia por algo que sucede al final de dicho libro, pero a medida que leía el cuarto, me di cuenta que el final volvía a cambiar.
En la saga encontramos, amor, desamor, amistad, entre otras cosas, pero sobre todo se ve el AMOR DE FAMILIA, y eso me encantó.
Puntuación general de la saga: ★★★★☆
I thought this was a great conclusion to a series that I really loved. I was heartbroken at the end of the last book and filled with despair at how it would all come together in the final book but it turned out to be the perfect ending. It was definitely a rollercoaster ride and I did still shed a tear or two of sadness at the end but I really couldn’t have imagined a more fitting ending to the series!
Audio #138
I just want to hug Amma, ugh I love her, one of my favorite characters!
(hide spoiler)]I feel like a broken record saying it in every review but I really do love all of the characters in these stories and the little town of Gatlin.
I think he's just so funny and adorable, I hated reading how sad he was throughout the story while Ethan was gone.
I really love John Breed's character and I'm glad he ended up being a good guy and not Team Abraham.
(hide spoiler)]I loved this book, I loved this series, I loved the characters and the town.
I was both happy and sad.
Happy because I would get back to the caster's world, a world that I love.
Sad because I would not be able to do that again, since this is epilogue of the series.Fortunately, this was a beautiful conclusion to a series that I love with all my heart.
So although, this was not the best book in the series it still was great-I love this series so much that I could not give less than five star.
I will miss the characters, I will miss Gatlin, I will miss the Caster world...
