https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40717990-the-sane-society
Perhaps the heart of Fromm's vision in this book can be summed up thus: “The whole life of the individual is nothing but the process of giving birth to himself; indeed, we should be fully born when we die - although it is the tragic fate of most individuals to die before they are born.” This work is ultimately about the core tension that patterns the developmental struggle most of us likely experience, and namely, the tension between the requirements of our full unfolding, on the one hand, and the requirements ill-fitting and culturally-reproduced identity-construals place on us, on the other.
A Brilliant work, a brilliant treasure from a brilliant mind. I prefer not to write a review. Just read it.
لماذا لا نفكر بطريقة أكثر تعقُّلا...بحق السماء ما الذي نفعله؟!!إريك فروم يفصل بين الذكاء والعقل ويرى أن إنسان القرن العشرين يتقدم بصورة مذهلة في الذكاء، وهي القدرة على التحليل والاكتشاف، لكن عقليا أصبح مريضا والمجتمع ككل أصبح عليلا، فالعقل هو القدرة على معرفة بواطن الأمور، معرفة مايحدث خلف الظواهر، وهذا ما لا تتيحه التكنولوجيا التي تجعلنا نلهث وراء المادة.
فليس غريب أن يكون عصر القلق –كما هو معروف عن عصرنا- هو نفسه عصر التملُك.ما فعله إريك فروم هو نقض البديهيات، وفكرة أن كل هذا القائم لا مفر منه، وأن رغم كل مكتسبات الحياة الحديثة فلابد من بعض التضحيات، فلن نصل على أيَّةِ حالٍ إلى حالة الكمال..
That was a while ago but the main issue sticks prominently in one's head: Can a person truly be sane (healthy in body, mind and soul) in a society which is insane?
In other words, most criteria for judging a person mentally healthy, or not, are based upon the individual's effective adaptation, or not, to society's ethics and values.
What about the United States, with its horrific levels of violence and tens of millions of poor, its CIA that undermines oeaceful, democratically-elected governments around the world?
Stir It Up: The CIA Targets Jamaica, Bob Marley and the Progressive Manley Government

بعد تحليل المجمتع من قبل فروم ومناقشة عيوبه وتأثيرها يبدأ يناقش تلك المشاكل والعلل وأثرها على الإنسان وكيف أنهكت الرأسمالية والاشتراكية والدكتاتورية على عقل الإنسان. ليطرح في الجزد الأخير من الكتاب حلوله الاجتماعية والاقتصادية والسياسية وكل ماهو مرتبط بالإنسان..يحاول فروم مناقشة الإنسان في التاريخ الحديث وسط تحديات المجتمع الإقتصادي / الرأسمالي والإشتراكية ليخرج لنا فروم مايسميه هو الإشتراكية الاجتماعية لفهم ونهوض ونمو هذا الإنسان البسيط ليكون هو ذاته وليس آلة لخدمة غيره. هذا جل ما يتبناه فروم في كتابه ليعيد الإنسان لمكانه الصحيح في المجتمع .
كتاب غير عادى بكل المقاييس... حجم البصيرة المعرفية إللى فيه مذهلة بالإضافة لموضوعية من النادر أن تجدها فى مفكر يدرك مواطن قوة كل فيلسوف ومفكر آخر ومواطن ضعفه ويشير للإثنين بذكاء... الكتاب يتجاوز كل الطبقات السطحية من الوعى ويغوص فى أشد التحليلات عمقًا.
لمن أراد أن يقرأ عن أمراض المجتمعات والسلوكيات "الغير سويّه" للجماعات فهذا فروم يبحث في الطبيعه الإنسانيه السويه حتى يُرسخ مفهوماً جديداً في الطبيعه البشريه متجاوزاً بذلك خطوه جديده في علم النفس . كتاب مهم لجميع فئات المجتمع
The majority of workers is alienated from work since they have no input on what's being done or made, they have no influence on company decisions, they have (Marx!) only access to a tiny portion of the product.The use of man by man is expressive of the system of values underlying the capitalistic system.
It doesn't matter whether a factory is run by The People or by a capitalist if the workers are still alienated from the labor.What I loved specifically is that Fromm never tries to go 'back' to some imagined state, like so many other critics of capitalisms are proposing (examples: Ishmael: An Adventure of the Mind and Spirit, The One-Straw Revolution, or whatever Pentti Linkola is on about).
Postmodernism might not have quite the same power as it did in the 90s, but Fromm's belief that there is such thing as human nature, with specific attributes and needs, and that some cultures do a better job of nurturing its development, will still be challenging for many to accept.I had to admit, this time around, that his actual arguments were not very strong.
So one will only be excited by this book, I think, if one comes to it already having felt the yearning for a society that is in dialogue with one's soul, so to speak, rather than just one's pocketbook.
من أعظم ما قرأت لاريك فروم و من أعظم ما قرأت في علم النفس الاجتماعي،كتاب يركز فيه فروم على عورات الم
How sane are we? This is a very hard question to answer because we do not know the line that demarcates sanity and insanity. Erich Fromm investigates the sanity of the present society. He found out that there are manifestations of social sickness that afflicts and distorts human relationship. Freedom is diminished in its worth and human dignity becomes something very ambiguous.
Although, unlike most analysts, he had no medical training, Fromm began a clinical practice in 1926 which he was to continue for the rest of his life.The Sane Society (1955) is a continuation of author's previous works and I assume reasons of feeling so reluctant to rate it high now is perhaps I'm missing the other two.
Still, I like dreamers, just who serve the benefits of humanity and there is nothing to bother about..., except one fact: The Sane Society is dated 1955 and now is 2015 and I'm reading it (I'm scientific book reader and honestly I don't read outdated books) and not just me, this masterpiece is still and appears to be actual today and perhaps in future as well.
In this sense, Fromm seems to suffer from the decided lack of imagination on the part of many 'leftists' of his day (it's hardly different now...) to focus on achieving 'concrete' possibilities; the result--a vision of increased comfort within alienation (to paraphrase  Raoul Vaneigem) instead of a call for the doing away with such alienation (which, I would say, could follow from his analysis, before he takes a different path in the last third of the book)--is, then, hardly surprising.
This way of writing can be misinterpreted, but the author revisits and explains every contradicting thought or something related to that.Even though this was written in 1950s, yet the book is very accurate on various aspects of modern society mental problems that are rooted in the problems of materialism and overconsumption.
The solutions might seem idealistic, yet it is a call for the humanitarian process of life in a way that we improve the economic, social, and spiritual aspects of our lives.
I recommend this book to everyone who is interested in socialist ideals, and the perfect solution to modern societal issues.
I love Erich Fromm, but reading his books is not something to be taken lightly. It's not that he is dry and boring (quite the opposite) but he supported his ideas so well that it is a bit hard to read more than a chapter or two at a time because his arguments come with some much evidence and exposition. Well worth the time it takes to get through it but definitely not a book you want to take on vacation with you.
Writing in the era of encroaching Communism and the rise of the Evil Empire, 2 years before the successful launch of Sputnik. One choice excerpt from pg. 363:"Man today is confronted with the most fundamental choice; not that between Capitalism or Communism, but that between robotism (of both the capitalist and the communist variety), or Humanistic Communitarian Socialism."
"good quote"; "fantastic quote"; "good quote"; "good quote"; "good quote"; "good quote"; "good quote"; "good quote"; "holy shit"; "good quote"; "wow";"good quote"... you get the idea. True enlightenment is on the horizon...a MUST read!
A great read. This book gives the reader a good overview of the ideas and ideals behind Fromm's democratic socialism. A critique of both US capitalism and Soviet communism.
První polovina knihy byla skvělá, druhá mi přišla hodně slabá. Zejména protože byla plná marxismu a socialismu - jednak jsem se tady dost nechytal (rozuměj nemám to nastudováno) a pak nedovedu k těmhle oblastem přistupovat objektivně a v klidu bez jakési emoční pachutě. Tak je klidně možné, že mi nějaké zajímavé myšlenky z té druhé poloviny utekly. Ale první půlka knihy mi rozhodně něco dala, tak se to čtení vyplatilo.
Ma..mama we're all crazy now!! from the Rockformation Slade was one of my favorite songs. I used the songtitel in one of my email adresses!Even a most brilliant analysis of an Erich Fromm about the structures of our society fades away, lets us continue unchanged like the centuries before. But the question stays unanswered: Why we don't change? Why i don't change?
كتاب لطيف، بيعرف المجتمع السليم علي انه المجتمع اللي بيلبي حاجات الانسان، ومن هنا بيبدأ يفكر ويناقش حاجات الانسان الاساسية ، وبعدين بيتكلم علي اكبر المشاكل اللي بيواجهها الانسان مؤخراً وهي _من وجهة نظره_ الانفصال ، انفصال الانسان عن الطبيعة وعن نفسه وعن تلبية حاجاته الاساسية، بيناقش _بسرعة_ ازاي مجتمع القرن 18 وال 19 حاولوا يحلوا المشكلة دي، وبعدين بيناقش ازي ان المجتمع الرأسمالي والشيوعية _جهم يكحلوها عموها_ بدل ما يحلوا مشكلة الانسان عمقوها اكتر وزادوا من احساس الانسان بالانفصال.
وبعدين في اخر الكتاب بيبدأ يقول شوية حلول ممكن تضيق الفجوة بين الانسان وبين احساسه بالانفصال ، الحلول كلها بتقع في دايرة ما يطلق عليه الاشتراكية الاجتماعية.
But the basic message that the entire structure and expectations and ambitions of a society can, in fact, be insane I believe to be undoubtedly the case, and it's somewhat depressing to realize that this book was written 55 years ago, and that the message has been repeated, and even accepted and believed countless times in countless arenas and forms since then, and yet, here we still are.
There may very well be certain elements of human society that worked better for us in the past, but it seems inarguable that there are many ways in which there has been enormous progress, and I suppose I'm an optimist in that I believe it is possible to keep much of the progress and still yet find a way to not be insane.
This may have been considered revolutionary at one point, but all these old-left guys have started to sound the same to me.
Ultimately, they're espousing the Ten Commandments.
Which is fine, but it's as watery as hell and has all the intellectual rigor of a human interest special on the local news.But Fromm is a bit better than that.
He does a pretty good job of winnowing what's valuable about Freud from what's not.
And his warnings against the economism of society are as prescient as ever.
hmmmmm i like a lot of things about this book and i have reservations about some parts. fromm provides some pretty poetic descriptions of mental health and the development of human potential, as well as some beautiful criticism of capitalist society. but i do wonder if the 'roads to sanity' that he suggests are actually radical enough to make such a huge change in people's lives.at the very least, it made me feel 18 again, reading something exciting about how the world could be......
Loved his take on the religious, God-parent-child, take on how we interact or see or feel about God, or whatever it is you choose to call "Higher Self".
اريك فروم مفكر وفيلسوف عبقري فذ , ولديه نظرة تحليلية معتدلة تتمركز باظهار الانسان بشكل عقلاني من البداية , وهنا يقول كيف يمكن ان تمتد الى النهاية
The mentally healthy person is the productive and unalienated person; the person who relates himself to the world lovingly, and who uses his reason to grasp reality objectively; who experiences himself as a unique individual entity, and at the same time feels one with his fellow man; who is not subject to irrational authority, and accepts willingly the rational authority of conscience and reason; who is in the process of being born as long as he is alive, and considers the gift of life the most precious chance he has.
– Eric Fromm, The Sane Society, p 275.
Old fashion but oh-so-relevant.
Overall, the book provides a useful framework to interpret the many symptoms of our modern world, and humanity's slow spiral towards a Dystopia.
Many of the phenomena the author observed almost 60 years ago, are now accelerated in an alarming rate (an to a more extreme manifestation) by the explosion of information technology and social media.
A nation-wide socialist movement would quickly run into the problem of coercion and the decay of democracy.Overall, this is a very well-written dissertation of the dehumanizing effects of hyper-capitalism in our world, if only the author refrained from providing a simplistic solution to the problem as he did.
Some good diagnosis, poor treatmentFromm has some decent insights into man's problems: his fear of freedom, his alienation, his tendency toward self destruction. His remedies, however are inadequate in the first place, and are worse than the disease in the second. The book is dated, the industrial revolution is over, many of the opportunities Fromm pined for are realized, yet man is as sick and alienated as ever. His brokenness lies elsewhere; his sickness is alienation from God, not from himself, as Fromm opines.
