https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1025943.Settlers_of_the_Marsh
When we read Frederick Philip Grove's 1925 novel Settlers of the Marsh for grade eleven English in the fall of 1983 (when we were, except for the standard Shakespeare that play we read every year, focussing almost exclusively on both recent and not so recent Canadian literature), the general consensus at that time was still and heavily so that the author, that Frederick Philip Grove was of Swedish background and that his Settlers of the Marsh (as well as many of his novels) should therefore be regarded as not only a historical novel about the experiences of new Canadian immigrants, about Canadian pioneers in general, of their hopes, their passions and anxieties, their triumphs and tragedies, as well as that abuse, brutality and even murder could indeed also often be part and parcel to the immigrant experience, but also and in particular that Settlers of the Marsh with its focus on specifically recent Swedish immigrants to Canada seemingly served as a document of Frederick Phillip Grove's own experiences as a recent arrival from Sweden and the lives of his fellow compatriots.
First published in 1925 this selection from the New Canadian Library was condemned by critics and churches.
It’s a realistic and grim portrayal of the life faced by immigrants on the Manitoba frontier, and a story of lost innocence.
Niels Lindstedt is a recently arrived young Swede who homesteads near the marshes.
Hardworking, he prospers and dreams of the wife and family he hopes will share the fruits of his labour.
He is naïve and sexually innocent.
Ellen witnessed the brutal life that her mother led, and promised not to subject herself to such a life.
Tragedy follows, although the novel ends with a faint promise for the future.
Other than greatly enjoying the descriptions of setting in terms of time and place I found the main character completely unbelievable in his naivete. Also, at first I was delightfully surprised with one of the main female characters (Ellen). But the whole book fell apart in the last 50 pages or so. What is most interesting to me, reading this in 2016, is how little has changed. Male violence is minimized (and excused because reasons) and women's 'femininity' and reduction to reproductive utility is still lauded.
Later, ‘The Settlers of the Marsh’ he wrote his first novel in English and its successful but controversial reception assured the popularity of his future novels until his death in 1948 aged 69.Here is a power novel.
I can agree with that to a point but nuances of sexual enlightenment were not intrinsic to rural society in Sweden or Canada prior to the Great War. The novel is placed in northern Manitoba where land was still plentiful for settlers who were hoping for success despite inhospitable climate and much arduous work required.
Niels feels attraction for both but is bewildered to the point of being stupefied.
I was liking this story a lot the whole way through.
The story takes place where I'm from in a time of history that I find very interesting.
His relationship with Ellen and his subsequent decision to marry Clara was all very intriguing and made for a good story.
I figured he would be hung for his crimes, tragic ending to a good story, works out fine.
But then the ending seems so misogynistic when the jury and even later the warden of the prison decide that this dude is a good dude and his wife was terrible and basically deserved it.
It's sort of like one of those Willa Cather Prairie Trilogy books or a more adult version of Little House on the Prairie.
In his early time, he works like a dog for other people, saves up some money and gets himself his own farm/homestead.
He works like a dog to set that up.
There's a beautiful, young woman in a nearby homestead, Ellen, who can work like a man and whom Neils Lindstet finds attractive.
But Ellen doesn't want to marry.
Somehow, Neils gets entangled with Mrs. Lund, a "merry widow".
Will Neils ever get things straightened out, at least a little bit?
First published in 1925(!), it was then widely condemned and banned due to its sexual content.
Sexual tension pervades the story but is dealt with in a psychological manner--nothing graphic.
The characters are thoroughly believable in the context of the times and the pioneer culture.
Grove unfolds the story as it affects young Niels and the two women in his life, Clara Vogel and Ellen Asmundsen.
The writing style reflects the times (nearly 90 years ago!) and the descriptions are often a little overdone , but that shouldn't stand in the way of a good read.
I thoroughly enjoyed the first half of the book because it told of the solitary lifestyle in a harsh area, but I got bogged down in the description of the marriage.
The afterward Kristjana Gunnars was very informative about the prairie genre of Canadian literature, and increased my understanding considerably.
Still looking for Canadian books for my class the semester after next, and I rejected this until reading the afterward.
The afterward made me feel that this should definitely be included because of it being prairie genre, and it should be this over As for Me and My House .
At first glance it looks like it's going to be an incredibly dull read, but in this case the first glance is completely wrong.A really bizarre take on sexuality, settlers, immigration and loneliness set in the harsh Canadian prairies. And Frederick Philip Grove himself is worth a Google - he faked his own death!
Pioneer life in the Canadian wilderness of Manitoba sure was back breaking; Sexual naivete is not good; don't marry the district whore, as it will only end badly; but the love of a true maden's heart will save you in the end; these are the things I learned from this novel!
Interestin story telling about the Canadian prairie frontier and it's immigrants. Similar to what I know about my immigrant ancestors to Canada. Better read to myself than to listen to being read outloud.
really great book!
Review to come.
More of a 2 1/2 star book. It was ok and interesting to read about the Canadian immigration experience.
What a waste of time this book was. Stupid male entitlement fantasy by an author who has no idea what judicious use of ellipses would look like.
