https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/977624.Los_asesinos
You are given a bunch of characters that lack all development; you have to settle with only knowing their names.
Passivity is this short story's trademark.
I am certainly not a fan of an extreme minimalist style but I think I can take it on small doses.
If Hemingway used this style on an entire novel, I can see why the whole reading experience can be tiresome.
So, reader, Hemingway fan, let me know what novel I should try first.
Back to the short story.
I guess.Verdict.Hemingway, regarding short stories, I think we can be friends.
ولی احساس میکنم چندتا فیلم دیدم که امکان داره از این داستان الهام گرفته باشن، یا حتی فقط اتفاق هایی که تو رستوران افتاد رو برداشت کرده باشن، نمیدونمهمینگوی فضایِ داستان رو به نحوی شکل داده بود که جر و بحث هایِ «آل» و « مکس » با اعصاب و روانِ خواننده هم بازی میکرد، چه برسه به « جرج» و « نیک»!...
حرف هایِ بی ربط، سؤال جواب هایِ پشتِ سرِ هم و تحقیرِ آشپز، « جرج» و « نیک» توسط این دو آدمکش، همه و همه رو اعصاب بودو در نهایت « همینگوی» شخصی به نامِ « اله اندرسون» رو واردِ ماجرا میکنه، و داستان رو به نحوی جلو میبره تا انتخاب و حتی کشفِ این که پیامِ داستان چی بوده!
خود داستان،یه داستان کوتاه معمولی حالِ حاضر ولی جذاب برای قرن بیستم بود.اما وقتی که نقد این داستان رو خووندم،روایت داستان رو بیشتر متوجه شدم و خیلی واسم جالب و جذاب شد.پیشنهاد میکنم همراه داستان،حتما نقد رو بخوونید.http://cafe-dastan.ir/نقد-داستان-آدم...
خود داستان،یه داستان کوتاه معمولی حالِ حاضر ولی جذاب برای قرن بیستم بود.اما وقتی که نقد این داستان رو خووندم،روایت داستان رو بیشتر متوجه شدم و خیلی واسم جالب و جذاب شد.پیشنهاد میکنم همراه داستان،حتما نقد رو بخوونید.http://cafe-dastan.ir/نقد-داستان-آدم‌...
چقدر عالی بود! یک داستان ساده ولی جذاب و کامل! آدم باورش نمیشه که به این سادگی میشه داستان کوتاهی به این خوبی نوشت! به درد اقتباس برای تئاتر هم میخوره!
چقدر عالی بود! یک داستان ساده ولی جذاب و کامل! آدم باورش نمی‌شه که به این سادگی می‌شه داستان کوتاهی به این خوبی نوشت! به درد اقتباس برای تئاتر هم می‌خوره!
لحن و بیانش خوب بود...خوبه که داستانو سریع جمع و جور کرده و این داستان کوتاه رو شاخ و برگ نداده بود...اینجوری اثربخشی داستان بیشتر بود.قسمت جالبش زمانی بود که به اندرسون خبر میدن دونفر میخوان تو رو بکشن و اون بیخیال روی تختش دراز کشیده...تو اوج زمانی که کاری باید برای خودش بکنه براش مهم نیست....حالشو خوب درک میکنم!!!!!!!!!
هر سطر که جلوتر می رفتم با خود می گفتم بالاخره شد! من هم از همینگوی خوشم خواهد آمد! ...... هیج پایانی جز سرنوشتی که همینگوی بر این اثر خود رقم زد، نمی توانست این اثر را این چنین در نظرم معمولی و کم خاصیت جلوه دهد.... .در رابطه با این که هرگز نمی توانم با قلم همینگوی ارتباط بگیرم به قطعیت رسیدم.
چند تا داستان کوتاه از ارنست همینگوی خوندم یا چیزی نفهمیدم یا تاثیری تو من نکرد داستان های کوتاه چخوف کجا داستان های کوتاه دیگر نویسندگان کجا!!
Conto conciso de atmosfera desoladora que nasceu pra ser filmado, que o diga Tarkovsky.
Two killers come into a diner looking for the man they are planning to kill.
The last two are tied up while everyone awaits the victim, who never comes.
Finally the killers leave and the customer, Nick Adams, goes to warn the victim who resignedly refuses to do anything to save himself.
Returning to the diner, Nick and the others briefly discuss the evening’s events and speculate about them.This is a coming-of-age story for Nick, an event that provides experience and a degree of wisdom.
More is implied than what the author says, and the reader is a participant, in a sense a co-author, who must fill in the undertones, feelings, and motivations.
Simple, very simple... 2.5 stars (I'm a bitch, I know)
There's George, the proprietor,; his black cook busy at the kitchen; and George's assistant Nick Adams at the other end of the long counter.Los asasinos come in.
Two guys: Al, with a small white face, tight lips, wearing a derby hat, black overcoat buttoned across his chest, silk muffler and gloves; and Max, about the same age as Al, likewise wearing an overcoat too tight for him.
Nick telling George he "can't stand to think about..." and George replying: "Well, you better not think about it."As if it is this story, their own, they are talking about.
Lejos está del concepto que tengo del cuento (un final sorprendente), pero los relatos de Hemingway no dejan indiferente, parece que nos asomamos por un instante en un día cualquiera en la vida de los protagonistas y luego nos marchamos discretamente.
The first book which has been read through by me in the original languige. I'm proud of myself :)
Not much fun. Some killers talk for a while, using spare prose. I think that's the point.
Almost no plot, very little character development, and only an ounce of setting to give us context for the story. Lots of violence. Typical Hemingway. If this is one of the greatest writers in the American canon, I know we can do a heck of a lot better.Five more Hemingway reviews left. I am thankful for all the books I read that rise above excessive displays of aggression and misogyny. I appreciate that Hemingway has made me grateful for those works, I suppose.
Adictivo
And it does take away from the quality of the story, and there are indisputeably better efforts by Hemingway.
However, there are certain themes within The Killers such as chaos and the blantant failure of parents who raised their kids in the Lost Generation; this themetic elements mixed with style make this an interesting story in if you look at it from a highly artistically ambigous perspective.
For face value though, this story is mildly impoverished, and it could be better.
Hemingway's classic short story is written in that sparse prose style of his. The staccato lines and the suspense, due to the threatening nature of the hit men, give it the distintive feel of hardboiled fiction. Typical of his "iceberg theory" approach, the simple plot - which seems to deal with how one responds to certain death, or the certainty of death - lends itself well to extensive interpretation. Reading it made me feel tense and uncomfortable. So Ernest must have been doing something right.
Narraciones basadas en diálogos, con muy pocas descripciones de lugares (en algunos de los cuentos, como mismo "los asesinos"). Hay que estar muy atentento al desarrollo de la trama, para no perderse. Personalmente, me gusto, pues no habia leido un autor que escribiera sin describir detalles que podrían considerarse superficiales.
Σύμφωνα με ένα βιογράφο του Edward Hopper, το συγκεκριμένο διήγημα του Hemingway αποτέλεσε την έμπνευση για το Nighthawks.[Αν μπορούσα, θα έβαζα 3,5*.]Ολόκληρο εδώ.
It's Hemingway. Put it's simplistic, annoying, idiotic and racist too. Everything I just don't like in a book. I know that sometimes the characters aren't good enough. And in this book they were all bad. I'd go for better short stories, had I known this wasn't good enough. One star.
"Listen,” he said to George, “tell the nigger to come out here.”“What are you going to do to him?”“Nothing. Use your head, bright boy. What would we do to a nigger?”
Simple and straight to the point in typical Hemingway fashion.
Well, it's homework and I just don't quite get the point.
Very accessible, very short story on some hit men in a diner in Prohibition America. Good way to check out Hemingway in 20 minutes (not that he only deserves of your time).
Excelente cuento. "Los Asesinos" es una simple obra maestra en donde Hemingway sabe usar muy bien sus armas.
In my opinion, as I opine, from all the short story writers I know, the best. Perhaps Borges is close but not exactly.
Boring, boring, boring.I'm not a fan of Hemingway but I gave it a shot. I was not disappointed by my lack of expectation.
"Убийцы" Tarkovsky's first film was based on this story.
I feel like these characters would be perceived as annoying or cliched by most people. To me, they were so ridiculous, I could only find them hilarious. They are so overdone, it's fantastic.
