https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/723738.The_Great_and_Terrible_Quest
But that allowed me to rediscover the book anew as a young adult, knowing effectively nothing of the story - almost as if it was my first time reading it.
I highly enjoyed reading the book, and I immensely looked forward to picking it up each night and rejoining the fascinating and lovable characters on their amazing journey.
It's the kind of book that stayed with me all day between chapters, thinking and wondering about the story, plot, and characters.
The story, writing, characters, plot, and twists were so amazing that I wanted a re-read as soon as I finished.
I am one of those shallow individuals, who, although I hate to admit it, often judge a book by its cover.
The poor stranger cannot remember anything, only that he must complete a "great and terrible quest." Trad, unwilling to abandon him, decides to accompany him on this "quest" of sorts.
Trad is caught in a web of lies and masks as he makes his way across a kingdom, all the while relying on the faulty memory of the stranger.
I still regularly read this book, and more than once have wished for a sequel!
Do not be like me and judge this book by its cover!
More in depth review to come, just know for now, it is one of the BEST books I have ever read and has inspired me so much!
It is by no means a middle school book.
I read old books when I was in my teens.
While out hunting, Trad comes upon a tall man who is ill and he takes care of him.
The political intrigue and mystery that is added by the fact that the old man has lost his memories makes this book unparalleled in my library.
Also, Huon has a dreadful wound on his head that is said to have come from a war ax.
This was a really neat story. It was one of those stories that doesn't tell you much about the characters when it starts. But you slowly learn more and more about them as you read. This book reminded me so much of The False Prince If you really like this book, you have to read the False Prince.I guess my review is more like 4.5 stars. This was a great story.
The Great and Terrible Quest is the exciting, engrossing, enchanting story of a quick-witted orphan who risks his life to join a mysterious, wounded knight on a quest for...something the poor knight can't quite remember...but you will! It's exciting!
It is gripping, and although there is a bright line between good and evil that might seem simplistic there is compassion for some of the awful human failings: "And those who did not help [the poor neighbors around a widow being evicted] - where should they learn to do so?
The King in his palace, the lords in their castles, the priests in their churches think of nothing but themselves, help no one, teach no one.
If the rich do not help from their plenty, is it wonder that the poor do not help from their scarcity?
I picked this book up at a thrift store a while back thinking that it might turn out to be decent, but was never really motivated to read it till now because the cover seemed rather unappealing.
(I know, I know--but in my defense, most paperbacks that I've come across with plain white back covers, single-sentence summaries and obscure publishers really HAVEN'T been that good.
A fast read, well-written, tense but not too tense, with lovely themes of loyalty and stalwartness and all that other good knightly stuff--there were a couple of passages that were downright heartwarming.
This is the book that started it all for me, I picked it up at the middle school library and checked it out over and over (three carrds full of my name lol)havent read it or even found it in years saw a first print on book finder for like $250+ can still quote it though: Silver hidden in the gold , young man hidden in the old , laughing lord with tearful eyes, bring king and ring before sunrise.
And how can Trad assist him?I first heard of this book back in 2006 when Home School Buzz ran a newspaper article about a twelve year old homeschooled girl in Alabama who suggested to a producer friend of her family that it would make a good movie and then went with the producer to interview the author, Margaret Lovett, in England.
It is a beautiful and fascinating story about good and evil, loyalty, friendship, courage, and determination to do right against all odds.There might be a few parts that could frighten younger or sensitive readers, especially the graphic description of injuries inflicted during combat.
Awesome. ima be a thesaurus rex now. incredible astounding shocking amazing etc. I'm beyond all other words
The Great and Terrible Quest Avyx, 1967, 187 pp., $10.99Margaret Lovett ISBN 978-1887840828 Imagine yourself, living with an evil grandfather.
However, you don’t know what the goal in this journey is, the man has forgotten.In The Great and Terrible Quest, Lovett creates an environment where we enter the medieval world, where knights exist, but chivalry seems to be gone.
Trad discovers truths about himself that his grandfather had hid from him and about the knight, whose quest is truly great and terrible.Lovett truly makes this story believable.
So go and get The Great and Terrible Quest!
I read it years ago when I was much younger and loved it at first blush, and have read it several times a year each year since then.
I cannot think of a book I love more than this one, perhaps because of its simplicity and medieval charm.
There are good and bad things about this book, but none of the bad made any real impact on my enjoyment of it.
As I grew older, I realized what it meant because I identified the clues the authoress was dropping throughout the story, and finally felt the real impact of the ending line.
I've noticed this in several books published around the same time.
I enjoyed the story,though the relationship between the 2 main characters was not really clear nor was it clear who some of the people were who were not in the story but were mentioned often throughout the story.
However,I really enjoyed this story.
The book also ended very abruptly and again with no final explanation about relationships,what circumstances had brought about the Great and Terrible Quest,etc.
I found the book enjoyable and,I believe,my son did as well thought he said there was not enough action(as in explosions and such).
The story brings up acts of kindness and charity, but without being insufferable, like most stories that bring up such things.
and it was not the fate of the woman, not even the behavior of the farmer and the priest, but the closed mean faces of the others as they hurried by which had shattered the picture he had clung to."I think my favorite character, by the end, turned out to be Tawny, although he is not one of the main cast.
All in all, quite an adventure, wonderful characters, wonderfully simple writing - A book that you can really fall into.
Although it has very simple language and descriptions (it’s written for children), it was a fun read.
While most of the characters get some personality and development, it is a small book and not a lot of time is spent with each.
There are three characters that get the most attention, and they do get some development throughout the story.
The biggest problem with the book is that it is so simple.
We are given just enough information to further the story and to have a background for the characters, but that’s about it.
So if you love easy to read stories with fun characters, then I would recommend this book.
One day, while his grandfather was gone he decided to try and hunt a rabbit, with a bow and arrow, because he was tired of his molded cheese and stale bread he was given.
He tried to help him, but the man had an awful wound and Trad set out to find an actual rabbit.
But when Grandfather returned he had visitors and so he had to pretend to be a half-wit in front of the band of thieves.
He decided to run away from his grandfather with the man and so begins the Great and Terrible Quest.
Odd little book, I didn't know what to expect.
Although I almost lost interest due to a slower beginning, this tale really picked up when Huon and Trad set out on their terrible quest.
Trad and Huon are both noble characters, and even Marlo and Tawny prove to be extremely brave and good.
Likes:*Good, strong characters trying to do the right thing.*A story that I wanted to finish.
I kept trying to make time to finish it, because I was enraptured.
Although, the gray-area guys end up being good, so at least there is some fluctuation.
Although it was written for boys about 12 years old, I think it can be read and appreciated by younger but strong readers...10 and up...Girls,teens and adults will enjoy it, as well.
Young Trad, orphaned when he was only 4 years old by the plague, is being raised by his grandfather, who is cruel and unscrupulous.
The man appears to have been a knight, whose motto is "what must be done, can be done." Despite his severe injury, this man is bent on completing his quest, if only he can remember what it is.Full of adventure, mystery, danger...very exciting, very well written...a definite read again.
The stranger is searching for something important but he cannot remember what.
The boy and the old man set off on a desperate quest to recover what the stranger lost, and remember it's purpose before the political forces that rule the kingdom crush their last hope of freedom.I read this book when I was about 13 although it took me a while to read because the cover made it look rater boring.
I love this book so much and highly recommend it.
I loved the mystery, adventure, and suspense throughout the whole book.
It's a perfect book for kids 8-14 years I'd say.
A homeschool family loaned this to me.Set in a medieval landscape and the court culture, Trad, a 10-year-old orphan, is the protagonist, who experiences danger, abusive treatment, loss, fear, and great adventure as he pursues a journey of discovery about himself and the white haired stranger (who has lost large portions of his memory due to a skull injury).
Trad learns about friendship, loyalty, family, love, and sacrifice as he experiences one fearsome episode after another.
This would make an exciting read-aloud for children.
Reading it more rapidly would have kept me on track more often.
This story did not grab me at all.
It is set in the middle ages, but with its simplistic plot it reads more like a fairy tale for young children than a historical novel: the innocent, 10-year-old orphan, Trad, befriends a wounded, elderly stranger who has lost his memory.
After the mysterious, witch-like Wise Woman of the Great Forest (who possesses a black cat nonetheless!) nurses the stranger back to health with "what she said was strong cordial", the two noble heroes set off on a quest to save the kingdom from the hands of the evil, greedy lords, and to restore it to its rightful heir.
Trad, a young, quick-witted orphan, abused by his grandfather, finds and old and sick man in the yard, and takes him to a mysterious woman in the forest who has a cure for everything.
After it is discovered that the man is a knight on a mission, Trad decides to permanently run away from his grandfather and help the knight and his poor memory.This was actually a book for school.
At first I thought it was going to be something dumb, but, as it turned out, once I started I never even considered putting the book down.
It's a very interesting book, with a creative storyline and great writing.
I felt like reading something medieval and "questly" (is that a word; I'm coining it.) and this about nailed it!
As other reviewers said, I do not understand why The Great and Terrible Quest is an obscure book as it holds many popular themes such as good vs.
There are many good quotes throughout and the constant hope young Trad possesses is contagious.
I will admit that I got confused halfway on the plot and still have some questions on the ending, but overall this book is well-written and I recommend it to readers who enjoy this genre.
A fantastic book!
This is the story of a man who lost is memory, though he knows he's supposed to be on a quest, and a young boy, who accompanies the man on his quest after escaping his abusive grandfather.
evil plot is reminiscent of Tolkien and C.S. Lewis.
The mystery of the quest unfolds along with the books, and would keep a middle school reader guessing about the outcome.
The characters are layered and complex, which keeps the story from being entirely plot-driven.
I'll be on the look-out for more of Lovett's books to add to the bookshelf!
A FB Friend admitted to loving this book, so I bought a used copy (seems to be out of print).
It's a charming story.
The presence of a three-legged dog Jokey at the beginning made me a little nervous (I don't finish books that kill animals) but he came out fine.
Aside from a few complicated sentences that knocked me out of the story, I have only one real gripe: how quickly it wrapped up.
On the other hand, if the title is the story, she stayed on focus the whole time.
I suspect I'll be nosing around for other books by this author.
The basic plot line is tried and true-- a boy's parents die when he is very young, and he is sent to live with an evil grandfather who hides the boy's true identity. A stranger appears when the boy is about ten. The two begin a quest that reveals that the strange man and the boy are connected to the throne. The language would be difficult for upper elementary students (it's like a King Arthur story). I really did not like the fact that the ten year old boy is always crying, and he is treated like a baby.
I first read this book in middle school, around 1994.
I absolutely loved it!
But then I forgot all about it...until a couple of years ago.
I couldn't remember the title, but knew I desperately wanted to read it again.
A quote from the book got caught in my head: "Silver hidden in the gold".
This drove me crazy for about three months until I finally found the book online.
It was as wonderful as I remembered!If you like mystery, action, adventure, and fantasy, you will love this book.
It reminds me of The Time quartet by Madeline L'Engle and The Chronicles of Narnia
A friend of mine gave this to me about 5 months ago, and I never picked it up cause I thought it would be boring and horrible, because it's not really known and didn't seem that interesting.But I was quite surprised by this book, as it had a delightful story. It isn't a must read book, or some kind of amazing novel, but still, it had it's moments and I did enjoy it more than I initially expected.
Wow, this book is absolutely amazing. I almost want to say that this is the best book I have ever read, but there are some other books that I absolutely love, too, so I can't quite say that. However, it is up there with the best books ever written. I loved the style it was written in, the adventure theme threaded within. I just loved everything about it. I super highly recommend this book- you need to read this book. Seriously. :)
The Great and Terrible is a wonderfully crafted, well written story about an abused boy named Trad who finds an injured knight on the side of the road and joins the knight in his quest to remember his quest. Margaret Lovett's writing is beautiful but simple, and she pulls no punches in her exploration of power and how it is used to oppress the poor. Even though the story is told through Trad's eyes, there are a lot of layers to the story.
