https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1611656.Dark_Needs_at_Night_s_Edge
*I apologize in advance for all the Klaus/Joseph gifs*  “People think happiness will simply fall into their laps. You have to aspire to it. And sometimes you have to seize it when it’s kicking and screaming.”   It's been awhile since I've read a paranormal romance. I'm a very, very picky reader. I'm not saying I have great taste. Some of my choices have been questionable at best. But I think most of you will agree that it's hard to find a well-written fantasy romance. A friend referred me to thi
But I think most of you will agree that it's hard to find a well-written fantasy romance.
The story intrigued me from the start.
A crazed vampire assassin.
Tales of his insanity spreading once more.
I’ve never missed a target—how insane can I be?
A highly paid assassin, he seeks revenge against his brothers who turned him into a bloodsucker.
Néomi was a famous ballerina with a bright and prosperous future, until she was brutally murdered by her ex fiancé.
She became a ghost, powerful but invisible to the living.
Néomi is such a refreshing heroine.
Keeping with the same pattern of earlier books in the 'Immortals After Dark' series, this fifth book in the series tells the story of another "unblooded" male that meets his mate.
This time around, the female is a ghost, Naomi, and the male vampire is Conrad, brother to earlier heroes in the series.
At times, I was wondering how in the world Ms. Cole would manage to pull off a love story when one of the main characters was little more than air.
If you love a strong, high-handed, alpha-male hero and an equally tough and sassy heroine, this series doesn't disappoint!
“People think happiness will simply fall into their laps. You have to aspire to it. And sometimes you have to seize it when it’s kicking and screaming.”  Dark Needs at Night's Edge surprised me so much that I didn't see what was coming when I thought that this book must be like the others. I fell in love with Néomi since the first scene, her life before she died was tragic and pitiful I feel the deep connection to her character immediately. Conrad is insane, he's brought to the haunted house by
I fell in love with Néomi since the first scene, her life before she died was tragic and pitiful I feel the deep connection to her character immediately.
It was really fun to read those parts when Néomi teaches Conrad to flirt and he always ended up frustrated.
I swooned over when (view spoiler)[Conrad knows Néomi is mate and tried to claim her, but something deters his way to that and he must to figure out before it's too late.
(hide spoiler)] However, the ending literally broke my heart, yet I liked this sweet disaster and how beautiful it is.https://goo.gl/bGqrAq["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
I could go on and on about what I loved about this story, but I'm very anxious to start the next book in the series to find out what happens to Cade, the demon.
I not only fell in love with the hero, Conrad, and heroine, Néomi, personally, but I fell completely in love with their love story.
Conrad sums this book up perfectly when he said, "My Bride by fate, my wife by choice..." Dark Needs at Night's Edge is another fantastic book in what is proving to be an outstanding series.
The creepy atmosphere created at the beginning of the novel, as well as the slow burn relationship build between Néomi and Conrad, separates this book from a genre which is all about waiting for the next titty grap or alpha male bullshit that is supposedly romantic.This book would have absolutely gotten four stars from me if the ending weren't a little contrived toward HEA.
Spoiled only in the last 10% by Cole bending over backwards to give us a "perfect" ending.If you never pick up another Cole novel because you are afraid of the romance industry mainstays of the ultra masculine male and the stockholm syndrome suffering female, then at least feel confidant that with Dark Needs at Night's Edge, Cole did something nicely different.
"Dreams can change."  I loved this story! After the gruesome prologue there is non-stop action: the plot is thrilling, and so complex, that I don’t even dare to summarize it. Brilliant characterization, incredible sexual tension, and Cole’s hallmark humor make this book unputdownable.Once both Néomi and Conrad were humans. Néomi became a ghost, Conrad changed to a vampire. Now both of them suffer from being what they are.In his human life, Conrad was denied any happiness; his change to a vampi
Brilliant characterization, incredible sexual tension, and Cole’s hallmark humor make this book unputdownable.Once both Néomi and Conrad were humans.
Néomi became a ghost, Conrad changed to a vampire.
He doesn’t know whether Néomi is a delusion, a fractured memory, a hallucination, or a ghost.Néomi is incorporeal, so Conrad is forced to behave reasonably and collected if he wants to keep her by his side.
Conrad is intense, morose, feral, but also has a romantic, gentle side.The sexual tension is incredible in this novel, since they are incapable of touching each other in the larger part of the story.
But one could not soothe the other because the ghost was not flesh and blood.When Conrad is chained at the Elancourt manor by the three other Wroth brothers in an attempt to cure him, he thinks that the beautiful woman that keeps visiting him at his bed is just a product of his imagination.
He is obviously crazy and starved since his brother do not allow him to take blood from a vein to feed.
Now in her house for 80 years, she is just a lonely, miserable ghost until a beautiful, chained vampire (obviously crazy) starts talking to her.
I have to rate this another 5 star read by Kresley Cole.
Even though the plot was a lot different than the other books in the series, I still found this one hard to put down.
I loved how Conrad and Neomi 'connected' over their long talks while each was a prisoner inside Neomi's estate.
Loved seeing Conrad's vampire brothers making return appearances.
And I especially loved when Conrad was finally 'blooded'--wow!
The sex scenes in this book were probably the most erotic of the whole series so far!
Now I can't wait to read the demon Cade's story!
I had to place my faith in Ms. Cole that this premise of a ghost falling in love with a vampire would work.
Despite his blood-red eyes and his insanity, Neomi is very attracted to the brawny and beautiful vampire.
Since Conrad killed the worst of all kinds of demons and vampire, he is violently insane.
I liked the way Ms. Cole turned the tables, making Conrad the innocent (sexually) virgin, and Neomi the seducer.
I loved her intense feelings for Conrad, almost from the start.
Even though Conrad was insane and technically a murderer (really just of bad creatures), I loved him from the start.
SpoilersAnother Great book in this awesome series.......Naomi Laress is a beautiful French ex burlesque dancer turned ballerina murdered by her ex. Refusing to die she comes back as a ghost. She is very sensual and full of life always laughing and enjoying herself and finding happiness where ever she can She is also dedicated working hard when she wants something. Going for her dreams.   Conrad Wroth Had lost his mind turned into something he hated against his will a vampire. He became a assass
SpoilersAnother Great book in this awesome series.......Naomi Laress is a beautiful French ex burlesque dancer turned ballerina murdered by her ex.
Conrad Wroth Had lost his mind turned into something he hated against his will a vampire.
I enjoyed seening Bowen and Mari and Nix in this book a lot.
They had some funny lines like:“I suppose that now you’ll want to sleep with me.” Over Rydstrom’s sputtering, she added, “Alas, big guy—I am taken.” “No, you’re not,” Regin said.
“He’s so miserable,” she added delightedly.” On to the next book :)
He kills other immortals by drinking their blood until he obtains their power and their memories.
But all that killing and drinking has caused Conrad to become consumed with blood lust.
They fear that they will have to end his life if they are unable to rehabilitate him.Naomi LaressNaomi was once a talented ballerina…She was rich and famous…The epitome of grace…Until a jaded lover killed her DEAD!!!!Now she's a lonely phantom ghost, left to haunt her home for the past eighty years…There is an immediate attraction between these two that can not be denied.
3.5 stars.Waitress : Welcome back to the Fetish Cafe. See anything you like tonight?Me : (closing the menu) Not really. I feel like I've seen all of this before. Alphas who kidnap, Alphas who rescue, Alphas who fight for their women...I'm bored. Are there any betas on special tonight?Waitress : (smacking gum) Nope. Outta luck. Some Valkyrie came in and purchased our last beta fantasy. She said something about wanting to hold him facedown over a crocodile...Me : How...quaint. (Gathers things) We
(Gathers things) Well, I guess better luck next time.
I think there's a man in the back that you might be interested in.Me : Oh?Waitress : You might need to talk with him for a while before he warms up to you.
There's always been a pull for me with forbidden love, and ghost stories tend to embody that.
Maybe next time.I enjoyed Dark Needs, but would have appreciated a few cut scenes with other characters to break up some of the monotony of watching Conrad and Neomi fumble their way back to life (him from the brink of madness, her from...well, death and all that).
I don’t usually enjoy ghost stories so I didn’t expect to be so transfixed by Neomi the French prima ballerina.
;P) It seems that as a ghost our little ballerina has developed mischievous hobbies, like stealing from her tenants and spying on people.
As a former seductress, Neomi can’t resist Conrad’s body so she takes her fill when she can, ogling Little Con because she knows he can’t see.But Conrad CAN see her!
Cole really lays on the sexual tension in Dark Needs and she does a fantastic job with it!
Just over two weeks ago, while boarding a 'red-eye' flight from Vegas to Toronto, I thought to myself 'I know I won't be able to sleep so why not pick a book that's already on my kindle to make the four hours go by faster' so I chose  The Warlord Wants Forever  and the rest, as they say, is history.I've been completely lost in this magical world of Immortals After Dark ever since and can't get enough of it and it's inhabitants! Néomi Laress & Conrad Wroth are the latest couple to steal my he
I don't think I'll ever comprehend how Kresley Cole manages to take a couple of beings and make their story completely 
and I'll never get sick of saying this but I LOVE the ever present humor in her stories!!If you are a fan of this author, this series is a MUST READ even if you aren't a fan of this genre because if anyone could make you a convert, Kresley Cole definitely can!Cheers!
I love a good virgin hero5 stars- Favorite IAD book yetGushing Fangirl ThoughtsI'm so happy there is a substantial amount of thorough reviews on this book for I'm about to gush over this like a open wound...:P This book was great.
Conrad literally scoured the earth, fought life and death as we know it to get back his Neomi.
This couple was so perfect and ill fated my stomach was in knots reading this one.overall...I know that this review might make the book sound too somber, but please don't take it that way.
(hide spoiler)] YOU HAVE TO READ THIS BOOK!!!
Easily this book was the most emotional for me so far and very unconventional with the ending and the love story between the two main characters.Conrad Wroth is feared and he is hated, but no one could hate him as much as he hates himself.
Hell bent on destroying everything even his brothers, but faith is about to set in and the brothers he wanted to destroy, are the ones who will bring his salvation and lead him to his Bride.Neomi Laress once a famous ballerina loving her success; and boom ex-fiancé aka crazy plunges a knife into her chest, and just like that dead.

Kresley Cole’s writing and Robert Petkoff’s narration were by no means at fault here; I still enjoyed many of the secondary elements of this story, the most noteworthy of which being Nix’s dialogue and the author’s phone sex style approach to the earlier love scenes was as erotic as it sounds.Spooks have their place in paranormal fiction such as hauntings, or sidekicks, my difficulty with them lies in their feasibility as happily-ever-after candidates.
Check out this and my other reviews at My Blog, Facebook, Google+, Twitter and Pinterest★Book Basics★  Genre : - Paranormal Romance  Series : - Fifth in the series.  Love triangle?  - (view spoiler)[No (hide spoiler)] Cheating?  - (view spoiler)[No (hide spoiler)] HEA? -  (view spoiler)[Yes (hide spoiler)] Would I read more by this author/or in this series?  - Yes Rating  - 4 stars★Review★An enjoyable read, but so far probably my least favourite of the series.I struggled with both the heroine an
(view spoiler)[Yes (hide spoiler)]
- 4 stars★Review★An enjoyable read, but so far probably my least favourite of the series.I struggled with both the heroine and hero, and the story just did not grab me as the previous ones have done so far.It was a bit slow going for me to start, and as i say, struggled to connect to either main character.
Also, it felt like certain plot points were never really explored, or finished a little too neatly and perfectly, almost like a forced HEA against all odds.
Still an enjoyable read, but not as good for me as previous.["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
Robert Petkoff continues his breathtaking narration, kicking it up a notch this time to tell us of Néomi Laress and Conrad Wroth’s love story.
His French Quarter accent for Néomi and Estonian accent for Conrad are great...nevertheless, I loved his Nïx the best!
She, the “Ever-Knowing” soothsayer, is perplexed in this one and Mr. Petkoff has her inflection – with just the right touch of arrogant attitude thrown in – down perfect.At the beginning one is inclined to wonder how Ms. Cole will ever get these two together.
Ms. Cole has taken traditional things that we know about and written a wonderful Paranormal-Romance that is truly original.
Robert Petkoff continues his breathtaking narration, kicking it up a notch this time to tell us of Néomi Laress and Conrad Wroth’s love story.
His French Quarter accent for Néomi and Estonian accent for Conrad are great...nevertheless, I loved his Nïx the best!
She, the “Ever-Knowing” soothsayer, is perplexed in this one and Mr. Petkoff has her inflection – with just the right touch of arrogant attitude thrown in – down perfect.At the beginning one is inclined to wonder how Ms. Cole will ever get these two together.
Ms. Cole has taken traditional things that we know about and written a wonderful Paranormal-Romance that is truly original.
And when his brothers capture him trying to cure him out of his bloodlust, he's the only one who sees a beautiful female ghost.
Besides, there are a lot of creatures out there trying to kill him and he has to remove the most imminent threat -an 8 inches tall demon- right away, if he wants to have any kind of future with Neomi.I liked fun loving Neomi very much.
I liked the way they got to talk and know each other, their interest turning to mutual attraction and much later to love.
Reread Review August 6, 20175 "Haunting" Stars!!Best ghost story ever!
Like I said with the previous book's reread review, I used to be tough.
Conrad was one of the best damaged males ever!
He was so very messed up and so very sweet and romantic.
I wanted him healed.
I wanted him happy.
In all ways, not just in the bedroom.The ending was practically perfect.
The journey to get there was so good.
There could be some good CGI.
Onward IAD reread!
Happy reading!!Original Review May 2013Really it's 4+ stars!
Conrad is so romantic!
The ending is perfect.
Happy reading!
3.5 starsThis was my favorite in the series so far, loved the MCs with their strengths and vulnerabilities. there was no pushing away, both were all in and fought to protect each other. For the first time in the series I was really intrigued by the supernatural aspect. Maybe bc it played a big part in the relationship between our MCs, and what makes them amazing.
Book 4 was so good I was expecting something along the same lines or better.
I didn't feel much attraction between Néomi and Connor and when they did finally come together it was anticlimactic.
I didn't like how she would leave Connor for days and be all pouty when she met up with him again.
Connor had potential but he never really shone.
Mariketa turns up again in this story but she's a totally different person--very annoying and irritating when she wasn't like that at all in book 4.
Bowen, her hubby, makes an appearance and he's good --too bad it's so brief.Hopefully book 6 is better.
I really loved this book!
It is a very well written and enjoyable story.
I loved Conrad- what a cranky, sexy beast of a man!
He was so smitten with Naomi and was able to go against his nature and be gentle with her.
Naomi is an awesome heroine- very brave and able to soothe Conrad.
And the steamy scenes are hot, hot, hot!
The secondary characters are great too.
Especially Nix- she is funny!
As much as I loved this one I'm not sure about the others in this series- I don't think many of them are safe like this one.
Well, it does – and all because of the magic the author weaves into this so sweet and lovable story of Conrad Wroth and Neomi Laress…I am not going to say much about the plot as parts of the storyline have been written in previous reviews – what was it about this book that made it such a fabulous and more than enjoyable read.CHARACTERS - How Conrad, so dark and driven mad by what he had become and his struggle to overcome his inner demons and how someone like Neomi, filled with sadness and loneliness, longing to find a way to be able to be human again and how her sweet and lovely and caring attitude contributes so much to Conrad’s healing and coming back to what he was before he had become a vampire assassin and reconnecting with his brothers, who had long been lost to him.
So, here I am catch up with Sarah ;)Book 1: The Warlord Wants ForeverBook 2: A Hunger Like No OtherBook 3: No Rest for the WickedBook 4: Wicked Deeds on a Winter's NightI gave this three-stars before, apparently, but I think I was being generous then - because I hated this book for the longest time.
And it was, I think, that forced reading that made me hate it so much.
I truly appreciated that about her character.Conrad, well, he was the biggest problem that I had with the book initially.
4.5 starsAt first I was likeSoon I thought things started to get interesting.Then I was likeBy the halfway mark and through the rest of the book I wanted to do thisA vampire that suffers from bloodlust and has been turned into a killer.
He cannot be sexually stimulated until he finds his bride and is blooded.
And when he finally finds her, she cannot blood him because she's not technically alive.A ghost that has been brutally murdered and has lived in solitude for 80 years.
She has no corporeal form and though she's started falling in love with her vampire with the red eyes they can never be together physically.
5 stars, hands down.My favourite of the series so far!
I cannot get over how wonderfully beautiful Néomi and Conrad's story was.
He was such a powerful character because of how confounding he was.
He was just full of opposites and flaws that it made him such a real character and you could see his desire for more in life and ughhhhhh.Néomi, girl, I love you.
She was so unique from Cole's other female characters because not only was she originally human before dying, she was well, a ghost.
Love.
Her.So yeah, my fave from this series and it's going onto the faves shelf.
