https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1005167.Living
You know you live for your job if you mourn when you lose it because you have grown too old to be considered productive anymore.Living is about the place you live in.Whom you share your life with tells the story of your way of living.
If you don't know anymore where your parents are living, it shows you have cut out a huge chunk of your former life.
Living is puzzling.This is the second novel I read by Green, and after Loving, I was curious how his unique voice would work in another context.
The things that tempt them to the trap are universal and timeless although they appear unique and urgent: sex, companionship, independence, reputation.Those who are no longer young but not yet old, namely those who actually run the show, all worry about maintaining whatever it is they've achieved.
It is at least partially autobiographical since Henry Green (Yorke) was the son of a Birmingham industrialist and took over the family business.
Despite admiration by Auden, Waugh, and Anthony Powell, Green was not a reader's writer and never sold more than 10,000 volumes of any of his eleven titles, perhaps because he pursued the family's business interests over his literary career.
Green is depicting lives at most primitive, "Living" at most basic: birth, school, work, death.
Green has even hand: lives of factory workers, upper class knobs, given same treatment.
it is what they have, why try to wonder what another life could be like - even lives they dream of are lives that are extensions of circular traps they live in now.
but is easy for me to say, alas, rendered complacent from happy hour drinks with colleagues from workplace, watching reality tv, scoffing, writing review from perspective of gent named mark monday with little to no concerns about money, working at place that gives what he'd like to think is meaning in life.
She said was one thing to these houses with narrow walls it saved buying alarm clocks…Sudden jumping from character to character and from event to event creates the illusion that everything happens at once and all is interlocked.
And in his apparently modernistic style Henry Green managed to portray the life of the workers and their relationships between themselves and their masters more precisely and vividly than many realists.He thought it was not poverty you saw in this quarter, the artisan class lived here, but a kind of terrible respectability on too little money.
The factory owners son, Dupret, trying to fill his father's shoes and make his mark at the same time as trying to woo an impossibly distant girl; and Lily Gates, keeping house for her father and "grandfather" and their lodger Jim, who all work at the factory.
Green captures the everyday tensions of work and leisure, limited money, the risk of being laid off, the pub, the risk of sudden violence (close to the surface) and the aspirations.
Dupret decides to run the factory his own way; he lays off most of the older men, those close to pension age and they have nothing left in their lives but the pub and an empty future.
Like hatchets they came towards Lily, down at her till when they were close to window they stopped, each clapped his wings then flew away slowly all of them to the left.That's the way to do foreboding.So Lily dreams of escape from the dreariness, the lack of living, perhaps to India then, eastward to tea plantations, and dolphins and tropical fish.
But no; instead it's a train to Liverpool with Bert Jones, who may not be the right man, and we're told this:When we think--it might be a flock of pigeons flying in the sky so many things go to make our thought, the number of pigeons, and they don't fly straight.
This is a passage from it:Then, one morning in iron foundry, Arthur Jones began singing.
In machine shop, which was next iron foundry, they said it was Arthur singing and stayed quiet also.
It rose and fell and then rose again and, when the crane was quiet for a moment, then his voice came out from behind noise of crane in passionate singing.
Soon each one in this factory heard that Arthur had begun and, if he had 2 moments, came by iron foundry shop to listen.
Everything in iron foundries is black with burnt sand and here was his silver voice yelling like bells.
It's also like Stein in that Green writes the humdrum moments of his characters' lives--work, pub, meals, sleep-- in dialogue and everyday actions one after another in a stream of repetition which gradually collects, layer on layer, to create reality.Christopher Isherwood called this a proletarian novel.
The story is of characters who work day after day for their living in an iron foundry in Birmingham, England "till we're too old.
Set in the late 1920's in England it traces several of the lives of workers, management, and ownership who are involved in a iron factory.
The protagonist, if there truely is one, is the young twenty-ish year old Lilly, the daughter and granduaghter of one of the iron workers, and her struggles with an awkward presumed first love as they contemplate leaving the city of Birmingham where the novel os set.
This created an entirely new dictionary section of words to include 'e (he), 'ers (hers), 'ad (had), 'ere (here) and the like, that made for somewhat difficult reading.
REVIEW: At first it is hard to settle into this book which is unique for its structure (lack of conjunctives and articles).
It is a story set in the between war years in Birmingham industrial area of England and features the social structure of labor, middle management and owners of the steel factories.
In addition there is the struggle of the old and young in the factories and a third theme of women's emancipation.
This is the second of Green's novels that I read for the buddy read and while both books were very good they were also very different from each other.
Living is a book written with few conjunctives and articles, making for a kind of minimalist prose style.
The characters are generally lower-class workers having a tough time, and I mostly ignored the plot, but there were a few really great descriptive moments - for example, this passage describing Mr. Craigan's obsession with Miss Gates: "For now, wherever Miss Gates went there Mr. Craigen followed with his eyes.
He was not watching, it was like these pigeon, that flying in a circle always keep that house in sight, so we are imprisoned, with that kind of liberty tied down."
I'm sorry to say that I did not enjoy this book at all.
The writing style was very difficult to read and I struggled to finish the book.
If it wasn't for the fact that 2 other people were relying on me to finish and write a review for The Wish List Challenge, I would not have finished the book.
There wasn't any plot or discussion that could pull me into enjoying this book.
I'm sure there may be some others who would love to read this book and may enjoy it but this book was not for me to enjoy.
Green's writing is so interesting to me. It seems like he just plops you down in the middle of a story, and you need to figure out where you are and what is going on. Then once you finally get really into it, the story ends! I have a hard time at first getting into his style as well as he seems to not see the need for filler words like "the", "a", etc, and its off-putting at first. His stories are interesting, though, and his style of writing makes his books like none other.
This is a beautiful book that teaches you how to read it as you are reading; it is difficult at first, but a perfect example of why it is worthwhile to stick with something challenging and afterward you find yourself thinking in the cadence of the writing for a little while and better for it. I love it. I love Henry Green. He should be far better known than he is.
Extremely difficult dialogue, no articles, prepositions and rarely the word "the". Ended up just finishing it as quickly as possible, unfortunate because the basis for a really interesting story is there.
It seems remarkable for it's era (the late 1920's) and is distinctive in both style and content.This is a book about how people relate to each other in general and how workers and management do, in particular.
Some people are pretty totally unlikable (Tupe, especially), no one stands out as a superior person, and most, rich and poor, are struggling with "living" and are difficult to judge in any simple way.I realized part way through the book that I had been effectively projected into the world which Green is describing, and gained insights (or at least Green's view of things) new to me.
Henry Green was a "modernist" writing this novel in the late 1920's.
It is primarily a description of life in a foundry town with a cast of characters who work in the foundry, manage the foundry, and/or live in the town.
The writing style takes some getting used to - Green chooses to skip "the" in many sentences, so the reader kind of has to just bob along with the prose as it flows and not try to re-construct every sentence.
Certainly not a "grab you" kind of book - but I suspect that some discussion and analysis would bring out a few genius highlights.
I think I can officially say Henry Green is one of my favorite writers.
He manages to bring out the beauty in everyday life, even in an environment bleak as industrial Birmingham, even in a story about the loss of love.
He vindicates life through art under even sad circumstances.
And his characters are real people: he makes these people so vivid by going into their heads and still not really knowing what they're thinking.
It's brilliant.One thing I would recommend is to pay attention while reading his novels.
I found this hard to follow because so much is in dialog, without tags, that I can’t yoke names to roles. And I don’t understand what Green has against articles, e.g.: “He smoked pipe. She brought chair.” Is it supposed to read like a play? I wouldn’t mind reading that as a stage direction if I had a play’s dialog tags. Eventually I grasped at a thread but a kitten with yarn would have done as well. I can see the theme and the accomplishment of it but it was disappointingly unlike Loving.
Read it. Genuinely good to great literary novel, a 9/10, hard meat to chew at first until you digest the style, the later literary lushness a bit of a letdown and wish the ending wasn't so sad, but true to form, a perfect master, no absolute tragedy, a mild knockback, the ruination of all yet nothing dramatic and a dull uplift to follow... what can i say? I read Doting first, which is an easier novel to love, start there, but read this.
I think I read a Henry Green novel eons ago. So much for age and memory. I enjoyed this book more than I ever thought I would. His style is quirky and you have to accept that you don't know what is going on at times. It doesn't matter. It is about life and work in a Birmingham factory. About men and women. About class. About loyalty. It is about earning a living and living a life?
Need to be in the right frame of mind to read this and definitely need to give it plenty of time.
A good lesson in how the thing you're trying to do with language can completely take the reader out of the experience and ruin it entirely.
Superb. It's a great shame that Green is so obscure.
"Later her head was leaning on his shoulder again, like hanging clouds against hills every head in this theatre tumbled without hats against another, leaning everywhere.""Every one looked forward to Arthur's singing, each one was glad when he sang, only, this morning, Jim Dale had bitterness inside him like girders and when Arthur began singing his music was like acid to that man and it was like that girder was being melted and bitterness and anger decrystallized, up rising up in him till he was full and would have broken out--when he put on coat and walked off and went into town and drank.""You were to him speaking, and he began quietly answering, then, suddenly, he was acting, sincere in feeling, but acting, and words were out pouring, fine sentiments fine.
At first you said, 'fine old man' in your mind, at last you were thinking only how to plug him.
And we go right up to the top of the food-chain to the Dupret's the ruling elite - privileged by inheritance they fair no better in this blanket portrayal of the class -system vacuous, spoiled and incompetent absorbed in the trivialities of life - the difference being that they can just play at it all however they like and make a meal out of not getting what they want ( in this case the girl ) and as a result take it all out on the proles whose lives - whoever they are in the company are all dispensable, To summarise this novel is a blanket indictment of the working - classes and their dull and uninspiring lives - any attempt to break the mould bound to fail because they lack the courage and the ability to change their situation.
The cycle of human life: youth, courtship, work, some level of prosperity, and then old age and , is presented in a light sometimes melancholic, sometimes heartwarming.The reader will initially be somewhat challenged by Green’s style in Living.
That said, Green’s writing is generally straightforward and accessible, and readers will quickly grow used to his quirks.While I am happy to have read Living, I don’t feel inclined to praise it as a great novel of the 20th century.
It takes a bit of getting used to, but Green’s writing is so good it’s highly effective.
But reading Green just makes me want to push the envelope of my own writing.
I don’t want to come up with cleverer plots, or more engaging stories, I want to sharpen my narratives, improve my word-choices, write the best damn prose I can, so that I too can be as lucid, as economical, and yet as lyrical, as Henry Green.
Creating literature is very much a middle class pursuit and Henry Green, son of a wealthy industrialist, is no exception.
But what is different about Living is that here he gives voice to the industrial workers of Birmingham of the 1920s.
I don't know of any other novel set in an iron foundry and Green’s use of regional working class dialogue is central to this work’s authenticity.
There is more than a hint of self-loathing here too in his vapid, nose-picking portrayal of the foundry owners' son.
And yet, despite the bleak existence of the working men and women (in particular), I found Living an uplifting experience.
Intellectually stimulating, and rewarding to reconstruct the interpersonal web and dialogue confusion.The use of dialect feels refreshing, as is his use of reported speech and punctuation.
Semi-phonetic writing brings the dialect to life and the elimination of articles adds a nice fluency and movement.Loved the (abundance of) daily dialogues, but the repitition did become a bore in the end.
Felt like he suddenly broke the story down in the middle, which had actually become quite interesting.
seemed a loss to me.Loved the fresh beginning, liked the intricateness of the middle, but dragged myself through an ending that just didn't do justice to the whole.
