https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/940167.The_Magician_of_Lublin
I've come across a theme shared here with another Singer novel, Enemies: A Love Story.
In that later book the protagonist, Herman Broder, is torn between three women.
A Holocaust survivor, Broder has lost all belief in God. He finds a reason for living in each of the three women.
His mental life would probably share some of the many self-involved ratiocinations we read about Broder and Yasha.
For both Singer characters women constitute refuges in which they can briefly make some sense of their lives.
"Se a sorte de um homem depende do infortúnio de outros, então não existe sorte para ninguém.
Se Deus não existe, então o homem tem de se comportar como um deus."Yasha é um judeu de quarenta anos.
Era capaz de amar muitas mulheres ao mesmo tempo."Casado com Esther, é amante de Magda e de Zeftel; está obcecado por Emilia e tem fantasias para seduzir a filha desta, com 14 anos, quando ela for mais velha.
Ganhou o Prémio Nobel da Literatura em 1978, «por sua apaixonante narrativa artística que, com suas raízes na cultura tradicional polaca e judaica, traz a condição universal e humana para a vida".»
I had absolutely no empathy with or sympathy for the main character, I have no picture of him in my head, I didn't believe in him, I didn't understand him.
It paints a rich picture of the Poland of the period; though I have no idea if it is historically accurate, it was at least interesting.
That seems to be the strength of the author and the point of his work.
In this book, at least, he has signally failed to create a character.
I'd love to see the movie, Alan Arkin is a great actor, and I couldn't help thinking that it would work better on the screen.In short, disappointed.
So, when you're a lout, a layabout, adulterer and all-around rotten egg sinner, what do you do for penance?
That's Yasha's story, and as he relaizes how much me meant, for both good and bad for the people he mixed with, he realizes that one's behavior does in fact affect other people.
That's the magic Singer is writing about, not the little parlor tricks.
No prettying things up in this book- it's pretty raw and bleak. As they say "Like a dash of cold water"! It is about a manipulative and deceitful magician's struggle with his evil side. This book should be depressing, but you are glad you survived, in whatever condition. I say "you", and not the protagonist because the writing is so good that, oddly enough, you identify so strongly with the main character that you feel like you lived this book!
Extremely enjoyable novel by Isaac Singer about the lecherous and then pious life of a secularist Jewish showman in early 20th century Poland.As usual Singer is masterful in picturing the past.
There is no single boring or out-of-place moment while reading this plausible fable.The protagonist, Yasha, is at the same time determinate and doubtful, self-indulgent and self-critical, strong and weak.
He made a career as a magician and gained a reputation as an entertainer, but doesn't know if leaving Poland for becoming a better paid showman.
Then suddenly Yasha's life start to change making still a popular man out of him, but with a completely different kind of success.
The Magician of Lublin is an interesting blend of timeless interactions across class divides and a time-capsule-esque setting of Jewish ‘shtetls’ in late 19th centuary Poland.Yasha, the unlikeable, selfish, womanising, ‘hero’ of this tale is one of the most frustrating and vivid characters I have come across in a while.
Yasha carries so many lies with him that it is impossible for him to form meaningful connections with anyone at all and he suffers for that most of all.I loved how bleak this book is.
But in a way a happy story just wouldn’t have suited this character, he was a culmination of twisted sin and suffered the consequences.
Yasha Mazur, magician, lover, free spirit in prewar Poland, "could never understand how other people managed to live in one place and spend their entire lives with one woman without becoming melancholy." He had a dutiful and loving Jewish wife in his hometown, but most of the year he traveled the country.
A woman in every town, a young female assistant for his act, an industrious agent, all assure Yasha money, variety and freedom from melancholy.He could open any lock, escape from any enclosure, walk a high wire.
His master plan was to escape Poland by converting to Catholicism and marrying one of his lovers.
Razbokoren felinijevsko-šagalovskim slikama i likovima i razbašuren (jidiš) jezikom i teškim mislima i sumnjama, roman "Mađioničar iz Lublina" podastire pred čitaoce sav raskoš Singerovog talenta.
A wonderful book though morbid as the protagonist is not the most likeable person, especially in modern eyes. Singer again and again puts together the contradiction of tradition and modern life, belief and hereby, Jewish life in Poland of the 19th century and so much more. It’s the first Singer book I’ve read and will look for more.
Well, that's the last time I pick up a book just because there's a monkey on the cover.
Art is a matter of taste and style.
This book just like any other is a work of art.
This particular artwork wasn't to my taste.
We don't really get a feel for his talents as magician or the world he occupies until the end when he receives a letter from Emelia.
That letter paints a picture of the type of person he is from a perspective other then his own.
The espousal of his particular perceptions leaves a murky picture.
As far as the plot the fact that the world collapses around him doesn't make him a compelling character.
Історія про те, що від власної харизми і пасіонарності не втечеш. Було дуже цікаво читати першу половину книжки, без навмисного їдишкайту і фольклорності, але вони з'явилися наприкінці. Зрештою, чи може книжка написана їдишем бути універсальною? Варшава і Люблін 19 століття видаються дуже міфічними, як з хасидської байки і телефони, газети чи актуальні соціальні проблеми, присутні у сюжеті, цього не змінюють. Польською читати дуже приємно, вона якось найближча емоційно до їдишу і до середовища описаного в романі.
As in his other books, the "The Magician of Lublin" also primarily deals with a person's self-revelation, rationality and religion, and the relationship between God and man.From the little I know of Yiddish (my Grandfather always said that Yiddish has the juiciest descriptions and curses), it is a fairly hard language to translate, and some of its idioms are impossible to translate.
"The Magician of Lublin" is an absorbing and readable novel, yet because of having just read "The Slave", comparisons between the two are inevitable.
In my opinion, "The Magician of Lublin" fails to compete with "The Slave" (also written by Isaac Bashevis Singer) in almost every aspect.
As always, Singer writes in an engaging style (even with it being translated from the original Yiddish) and includes many unforeseen occurrences which reach a crescendo leading Yasha to seek his own form of penitence.This book reads more like a fable than a novel, especially compared to some of Singer’s longer works.
Either way, I think publishers should change Singer’s last name to Crichton or Rowling to drum up interest in his books.The fable like nature of this novel is a good way to get introduced to Singer’s works as it deals less in realism than the other novels of his which I have read (Enemies: A Love Story and Shadows on the Hudson).
I didn't feel this was as successfully realized a novel as The Slave. But I do have to hand it to Singer: in an era in which his contemporaries were portraying sexually promiscuous male protagonists who pursue various "conquests" as heroes, Singer creates the same kind of character but shows him, in the end, to be morally bankrupts and depicts his eventual transformation into a spiritual seeker. Protagonists like this do not exist in the works of Philip Roth, John Updike, or Saul Bellow, as far as I know.
Ik ben al jaren geïnteresseerd in de joodse cultuurlevens en ik heb essays geschreven over Jiddische literatuur, een taal die uitsterft, en zo ook een literatuur.
De laatste grote Jiddische schrijver, Sutzkever, stierf in 2010 en dit wordt nu gezien als het definitieve eindpunt van de Jiddische literatuurgeschiedenis.
Singer won als enige van hen de Nobelprijs.
De magiër (of duizendkunstenaar) van Lublin is naar mijn mening beter dan Gimpel, beter dan de Familie Moskat zelfs.
De duizendkunstenaar is een goochelaar, een acrobaat, een sjacheraar die hedonisch leeft, maar aan het eind van het boek hervindt hij zijn joods bestaan en begint een zware zelfstraf.
Risente, nel bene e nel male, della stesura originale in yiddish.
Il pregio è quello di una lingua energica, evocativa, piacevole al gusto.
Il limite, che talvolta il sentore della didascalia è un po' troppo forte.
Vi si narra di una discesa rovinosa negli inferi dell'esistenza e di una successiva, volitiva, catarsi.
La vicenda sembra però lo spunto per creare una cassa di risonanza al Dogma, e questo fatto mi lascia un po' perplesso.
Alla fine il racconto risuona un po' troppo come 'parabola' biblica.
Cosa che, a mio avviso, gli fa perdere spessore letterario.
I don't know what I thought this was about. Well, I do know what I *thought* this was about, it's just that the book description is woefully inadequate.This falls into the category of morality play, although set in the latter part of the 19th Century. I am not fond of morality plays, nor am I especially interested in reading about people who decide to give up their supposedly evil ways and turn to God. Should I rate this lower? It did keep me reading and it was not a total waste of time.
Cant miss with anything he writes!
Good story, I believe it is a statement about god and doing what is right, and something like karma, or everyone gets their justice sooner or later.
We ask a million questions, however the answers lie only within.
Singer's tale of a religiously-lapsed Jewish magician/acrobat is not so much about tricks or a series of interlocking events as about a man torn between Good and Evil.
Yasha remains a thinker, a questioner, a wonderer, not a blind accepter of given wisdom.THE MAGICIAN OF LUBLIN epitomizes, in the form of a novel, the basic elements of Jewish thinking.
Or at least, it asks and tries to answer the most basic questions of that tradition.
Man is born to question.
Milton Hindus' 1960 review in the New Yorker does a much better job at capturing the essence of the novel, and I like the idea that the hero, the magician and escape artist Yasha Mazur, "escapes into a prison" of his own making.
Yasha exemplifies the chaotic choices of the extroverted introvert, and gives us a glimpse into the damage that one can cause in the pursuit of pointless selfishness.
If only one could travel back to their selfish younger selves and hand them a bag full of books to read.
We can learn from Yasha what our life could be like if we pursue selfishness to its logical conclusion.
A moral allegory, depicting the consequences of vice and the salvation of religious principle.
It's Isaac Singer's assertion of Judaism; its ability to unify and uplift.
According to Singer, the world would be a better place if everyone upheld firmly to religious doctrines.This religious moralism is what set me aback from the novel.
It is fascinating to see aspects of Hebrew society as they are lovingly portrayed in this novel, but the many Judaic messages that appear throughout left a bad taste in my mouth.
Kejklíř z Lublinu pojednává o Jašovi Mazurovi, který vystupuje v Polsku 19.
století jako akrobat a kouzelník.
Neustálé převlékaní kabátu, úniky a triky, ale nejsou součástí pouze jeho obživy, ale také vyjádřením postoje k životu a vztahům.
Zatímco doma žije s prostou Ester, na cestách ho doprovází mladá akrobatka Magda.
Sem tam uteče za vdovou Zeftel, přičemž je zamilovaný do intelektuálky Emilie.
Jašu trápí nerozhodnost, nedostatek peněz i mravní odvaha.
Kejklíře z Lublinu Singer lze chápat jako ryze morální román, ale najdeme v něm klasické atributy Singerovy tvorby: vášnivé vypravěčství, smysl pro tragikomiku i spojení prostého života s hlubším filozofickým rozměrem.
Le entré con muchas ganas por lo bueno que me pareció el primer libro que leí del autor (La destrucción de Kreshev) sin embargo al primer cuarto del libro me comenzó a parecer un tanto aburrido.
Nos lleva lentamente, muy lentamente, por la vida azarosa de un prestidigitador y acróbata que tiene también como habilidad enamorar y dejar mujeres por todos los caminos por donde pasa.
Si bien tiene un desenlace inesperado (y es la única parte donde se halla fluidez) cuesta trabajo llegar a él.
Lo terminé por orgullo de lector.
Our Magician, Yasha, travels Poland and a circuit in Eastern Russia performing slight of hand tricks, hypnosis and high-wire walking.
Yasha professes to be an atheist but in truth has never stopped believing in Judaism and by chance finds himself having spiritual experiences in synagogues along the way.
When disaster strikes Yasha finds himself reflecting on what is real and true in life and taking a most unexpected path.
I really enjoyed "The Magician of Lublin." Singer provides a wide variety of entertaining characters, bringing the rich landscape of 19th century Poland to life.
Set in 19th century Poland, this tells the story of Yasha, a working magician, who travels around the country to visit his different mistresses and work in theatres.
Yasha is a very believable character: torn between religious faith, and entering a life of crime and living with various mistresses.
Some aspects of the book didn't work for me: I didn't entirely believe in some of Yasha's character development, and the ending fell rather flat.
But overall I enjoyed the vivid characters, and Singer's energetic writing, and I would read more of his work.
3.5 stars.
A very told story about Yasha who is a Houdini type magician is his 40s.
He is a non practising jew who has been married to Esther for a number of years.
Yasha and Esther have no children.
Yasha travels throughout Poland as a performer and in a number of towns he has a mistress.
He is generous and has a lot of friends.
He falls in love with a widow, Emilia and promises to take her and her daughter to Italy.
However he doesn't have the money to move permanently and thinks of other ways to gain a large sum of money quickly.
This book is an entertaining look into the strengths and frailties in human nature, as seen through the life of Yasha, the main character, and those he interacts with. I found IBS to be realistic, and yet deeply compassionate toward him and others in their efforts to live life, achieve something, dismantle things, and have some perspective on it in the end. He reminds us that in many respects we are harder on ourselves in our human frailties than others judging our conduct from the outside in. Highly recommended!
