https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7979.The_Bellmaker
I'm a little fuzzy on all the details, but I know I adored this book.
Your stories will be counted with The Lord of the Rings Trilogy, The Hobbit, Harry Potter, the Little House on the Prairie series, and whatever other classic books I may have forgotten.It makes me incredibly sad that you passed away this year, Mr. Jacques.
I think I'm always going to cry a little when I read your books or think of your smile.You have done so much for me without meaning to.
I can't explain how author Brian Jacques is able to turn out bold, mysterious, resounding and completely wonderful stories every time he takes pen to page, but The Bellmaker easily rivals any of the other classics that he has created.
The story that is The Bellmaker is as multilayered and multifaceted as the best works of Brian Jacques, classics such as Redwall and Martin the Warrior.
What is especially splendid about this novel is how it departs from the normal kind of happenings to this point in the Redwall series, surely leaving even the most astute observers of the famed abbey's history guessing as to how things will turn out in the end.
This was very much enjoyable. All the tangled plot was very fun, as was the assorted dialects, naturally.
Methinks it's time for me to take a break from Redwall for a bit, although this means I won't get all of the intra-series references in the next bajillion books.
There will be a sadness at Redwall that is overcome by faith in...something...and a kick-ass feast: check.The sad part about this particular book is that it does try to break some of its own molds: there's a rat who is only bad via company and is actually kind of good at heart.
The Bellmaker, written by Brian Jacques, is part of the Redwall series. This book is about Joseph the Bellmaker trying to find his daughter and her companion. The protagonists are Joseph the Bellmaker, Mariel, Joseph’s daughter and Warriormaid of Redwall, and Dandin, Mariel’s companion. The antagonists are Urgan Nagru, the Foxwolf, and Silvamord, his mate.  Joseph doesn’t know where Mariel and Dandin are, and it’s been four seasons since they left. Abbot Saxtus and the Redwallers have no clue e
Meanwhile, Urgan Nagru and Silvamord have captured Castle Floret in Southsward, which is south of Redwall and Mossflower.
With the ship, named the Pearl Queen, Joseph, the Redwallers, the Guosim, and Finnbarr set off for Southsward.
As Queen Serena and the others escape, Mariel, Dandin, and Meldrum defend them against Urgan Nagru and his horde of rats, but end up being captured.
The crew of the Pearl Queen, Dandin, and Meldrum arrive and help Mariel fight the rats.
Will Mariel, Joseph, Dandin, and Finnbarr Galedeep be able to stop Urgan Nagru and Silvamord?
There are a couple of others, but he’s the one that stands out the most to me when I think of good vermin.
The sideplot involving him and Slipp is interesting, and, like I mentioned above, makes the Redwall portion of the book bearable.
In Mariel of Redwall, Rufe was a strong, silent older squirrel who was a leader in the battle against Graypatch.
He hung around with Oak Tom and the “older” Redwallers (as opposed to the “younger” ones like Dandin, Saxtus, and Durry).
However, in this book, Rufe suddenly changes into this really timid, “young squirrel” who seems younger than Durry, Dandin, et.
Mariel and her friend Dandin go off into mossflower woods to fight the evil vermin that are under the rule of Foxwolf Urgan Nagru and his mate Silvamord.
So they go onward towards Castle Floret and tries to help free Gael Squirrelking from Foxwolf Urgan Nagru.
there they meet Rab Streambattle and his mate Iris Streambattle with their army and attacks Castle Floret but only manages to free Serena and Truffen (the king's mate and child.
Meanwhile Joseph the Bellmaker gets a vision and set off with his friends to help his daughter Mariel to defeat Urgan Nagru.
So then they all meet together with some other allies to attack and defeat Urgan Nagru.
This is a great book and in my opinion can be enjoyed at many levels for all ages.
I have read every one of Brian Jacques books and am now on the second round of reading them.
Brian Jacques is sadly no longer with us so no more wonderful tales of Redwall.
In this book Joseph the Bellmaker is visited in a dream by Martin the Warrior.
He is told to set off and find his missing daughter.
The book is full of action and adventure and of course a wicked enemy as always.
If you are young at heart do try these delightful books.
What a wonderful tale, full of talking animals. I had to say "bye bye" to it when I used it to bargain with my sister. I wanted her Lord of the Rings box set and so I had to give her 10 books for it. *sigh* But that box set sure looks nice on my shelf ;)
One of my favorite Redwall books yet, especially since there is a searat who actually gets to have a redemptive arc! It makes it more interesting when you can't classify an animal as "good" or "bad" merely by species. There are 3 different storylines going on at once, which isn't unusual for a Redwall book, but Jacques does a marvelous job of bringing them all together.
I like how all the books in the story are tales told to another group of animals. I feel that they should come back to the tale tellers at the end of the book. I am happy how they successfully found Mariel. I loved the twist when we thought two of them were dead but the came back.
Joseph must go on a quest to Southward with his friends in order to save Mariel and Dandin and to free Southward from the evil tyranny it is under.
The battle begins and with the help of the Southward Army and the arrival of the Bellmaker and his crew they are able to rid all of Southward from the vile hands of Urgan Nagru.Throughout the book Joseph is very noble and brave.
Joseph stays true to himself in the end when he stays behind to help Southward rebuild after the gruesome battle.I gave this book a very deserving four out of five stars.
Retracing my steps through the Redwall books that I read the least as a child has been really interesting.
The Pearl Queen story was jarring, mostly because of the odd decision to have Rufe Brush be a different character in every way but name and species from the strong, silent warrior in Mariel of Redwall.
The Redwall story, while lower stakes than in Mariel, actually turned out to be my favorite.
This is partly because I truly love Tarquin, partly because of the truly sad character death, but mostly because of the truly unique decision to have a good "vermin" character!
In the seventh book in the Redwall series by Jacques, the reader gets to revisit old friends on a new adventure.
The focus of the story is on Mariel and Dandin, after they've left Redwall in search of new adventures themselves.
Mariel's father, Joseph, and other old Redwall friends like Durry Quill, Foremole, Tarquin and Rufe Brush set out to find Mariel and Dandin and help them in their quest to take back Castle Floret and bring peace.
Once again, Jacques creates a truly wonderful tale, with old characters and new.
I was missing Redwall and Brian Jacques so much.
It's been years since the Rogue Crew and I hadn't read one since.
Reading The Bellmaker again was the perfect cure for my nostalgia.This is classic Redwall fare.
We have wandering warriors, hungry hares, cutthroat pirates, sea-faring adventurers, mysterious prophecies, evil tyrants, vermin hordes, guerrilla shrews, berzerker badgers, a convergence of heroes and villains and armies for battle, sumptuous feasts, the battle of good and evil, the power of faith and friendship.
Plus, this is the book with Blaggut, the friendly sea-rat who overcomes the confines of his race and upbringing to become an honest tradesrat and friend of Dibbuns.
I'm on page 66 and a rabbit named Meldrum has showed up and helped Mariel, a warrior from Redwall, defeat some vermin. I predict that Mariel and Meldrum wil help others on the island defeat the big group of vermin that the smaller group came from because the others on the island are all ready planning something and one of the islanders has had a dream about Mariel.12/5/10 pg.125So far Mariel, Meldrum, and Dandin, another warrior from Redwall, have been captuered by Urgan Naguru, the foe, and are being held prisioners. I predict they will escape.
Ugh. Another mouse book. Seriously, I'm tired of these same rundown story lines of mice having people attack them and they responding by going on a quest to kill the people attacking them. Pretty boring books and I'm having a hard time finishing this series. This one is notoriously boring as the Bellmaker really doesn't do much in the story, but strike up a special relationship with a sea otter. Whoop-de-whoop.
The Redwall books ought to be a perennial children's favorite. They are simple and formulaic, but it's a good formula! Jacques has a real gift for dialect, and culinary descriptions. I credit an early fascination with the Redwall stories for my modern-day feats of gastronomic delight. "Salad anna scone!"
This was my first Redwall book. As an eager 5th grader, I gobbled it up in just under twelve days. I've been hooked to the series ever since. I read it again not long ago, and it was just as good as I remember.
One of my favorite Redwall books. One of the best parts of the book, in my opinion, is Blaggut. It is nice to see that not all "vermin" are bad and that they can have good hearts if given the chance. It is a nice change from the usual "mouse is friend, rat is enemy".
One of my favorite child hood fantasy series. I still love it and occasionally pick one out to read for a light and easy novel. I have read the series many times.
http://readingforsanity.blogspot.com/...
The main plot was about Mariel and Dandin liberating a castle from two foxes and their horde of rats.
Some really cool characters show up in this plot line.
There's Field Marshall Meldrum The Magnificient, my new favorite character in the Redwall universe and he only shows up in this book!
Another favorite character from this book is Finbarr Galedeep, the otter captain of The Pearl Queen (the ship that is at the center of the B plot).
Overall this is an awesome book, I wouldn't recommend it as a first book to read in the Redwall series as it references a lot of people and events from previous books.
Best of the series by FAR.
I was starting to lose faith in the Redwall books, but I was pleasantly surprised here.
First, I very much appreciated not having to be introduced to entirely new characters by picking up chronologically from "Mariel Of Redwall".
Lastly, the voyage to and on the Pearl Queen contained absolutely the best adventure of the series so far.
Again, "The Bellmaker" is an excellent continuation of the Redwall series, and it has reignited my love for the books, and I cannot wait to start on "Outcast Of Redwall".

Good and medieval like the rest. Valorous creatures slaying stupid rats in violently hilarious ways,and 'ole seadogs' sailing over the sea and escaping impossible odds. A 'bally good piece of writing, wot?'
Brian Jacques knows how to right a story that has so many story lines tucked into it, and than in the end bringing them all together to make an Amazing climax that makes you want to keep turning page after page. It made me cry at least three times. XD
This one, to me, is the most fun of the series. Not the best, but the most fun, definitely. It felt like a lighthearted swashbuckler with a little bit of high seas epic mixed in there. The story is unique and I loved all the otter characters involved. Overall, a quick and enjoyable read.
A rollicking Redwall adventure
I've always loved these books, and this one was no exception. Enjoyable from start to finish
