https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6561.Second_Child
What a shame that some of the reviewers here have given away the plot!I haven't read Second Child for a long time but I often think about getting it off the shelf once more.Melissa, the second child of the title, is overjoyed when she discovers that her unknown elder sister Teri is coming to live with her father's new family at Secret Cove.
If that's my only real gripe, he ain't doing bad ...
This was the first book I read by John Saul.
I was maybe 13 at the time and I found it in a basement.
I was bored and figured I'd read.
This is not what I call a 'visually' scary book.
Saul does a good job with scene setting and you can easily imagine whatever is currently happening.
This book is psychologically scary.
I've read this book quite a few times over the years and it has never failed to freak me out on some level.
This seemed to me to be a great story, with a lot of potential, but he effed it all up trying to tell it.
I lose touch of the characters when authors do it, and it's not like a professional writer to do that.The story: It's about a girl whose house burns down, killing her mother and stepfather, so she is forced to go live with her father and his wife.
And the stuff hits the fan.All together, the story was great, like I said.
Then he let me down at the end, as if he just got sick of telling the story, and gave up.
After many years I came back for an old John Saul novel I missed back then and wasn't disappointed.
There is no other author mixing appaling family secrets with horror and ghost appearances like John Saul.
You really feel for Melissa and Cora hate Phyllis and cant' believe the stunning details you read about Teri and her former family.
An absolute page turner with interesting characters and an author who really knows how to write a bestseller.
You get the meaning of the title in the last sentence of the book!
A real John Saul classic.
Reading this books shivers will run down your spine.
A girl ends up moving in with her father and stepmother and step sister after her real mother and stepfather die in a blazing house fire.
After she moves in with her real father, things started happening.
She was fitting in with the high class country club people that her step mother and sister never really fit in to.
Her step sister has been labeled "CRAZY" by all of the people in the neighborhood and club, even her own mother thinks she is crazy and abuses her.
After the move in with her father, things start to happen; abuse, dead dogs, murders......
I remember that after I read a book of Saul's, for the first time, I was so excited!
He seemed to be such a good author, and I really liked the way he presented things!
He still knows how to tell a story, and he still has "the flow".
But that flow ain't nothing compared to the "Midas touch" some other horror authors have.
I can understand why people would like him.
If someone started reading it to me at night, I'd sleep like a bear in the middle of the winter.
This is a story about Teri, who burnt down the house that she lived in, killing her mother and her stepfather.
With the death of her mother, Teri is force to move to Secret Cove, with her father and his wife.
Charles and Phyllis already have one daughter Melissa.
Her evil mother sometimes ties her down in bed to prevent her from sleepwalking.
Teri fits in perfectly with the rich brats of Secret Cove.
Phyllis always says to Melissa, why can't you be more like Teri!
When evil things start to happen in Secret Cove, the terror is non stop.
The one thing I hated was how unbelievably stupid the father was.
The important thing I learned about is be nice and be good to people and animals and never harm/murder them!
Because you'll never know if they have a ghost friend who will make you pay for every wrong thing you ever done!
And you'll suffer in hell just like mean Teri!
Melissa has no mean bone in her body so be like Melissa!Thank you John for writing this wicked book called The Second Child!
Please write another The Second Child part two book!
John you deserve a reward for writing the best horror books thank you so much!

In fact, I would say it is one of John Saul's best books.
The book grabbed readers from page 1.
Character development is great in this book.
If you find yourself getting emotional because of the actions of the characters than you know its a good book!The PlotThe plot was well done.
Quite frankly, I like his earlier work better than the ones he did later in life.All in all, this was a great book that kept me clinging to the pages.
I needed to know what was going to happen and that made it hard for me to put the book down.
Second Child by John Saul is a horror novel about a girl (Melissa) who is abused by her mother and is protected by a 100 year old ghost which lives in the house.
A quote from this book which illistrates Melissa's mother's abuse is "You look terrible!" Phyllis hissed.
Dear God, How can you be my daughter?" (Page 97) This helped me to understand why Melissa is protected by D'arcy (the 100 year old ghost) and what her mother's opinions of her are.
She is collected by her biological father to go live across the country with him, his wife and their 13-year old daughter, Melissa.
But she has good reason.
(The back of the book doesn’t say much, so I don’t want to give too much away.) They are rich, but Melissa and her mother (Phyllis) don’t really fit in, though Phyllis certainly tries.
This was really good.
This book has elements of both supernatural and psychological horror, both of which I “enjoy” reading.
Just be careful reading through some of the reviews, as much more is given away than I think should be for this book.

Melissa, Teri's half-sister, who is punished almost every night by being chained to the bed.
The ghost, however, protects her at night, when her mother abuses her.
In return for this protection, the ghost of this poor servant girl from 100 years ago starts to do the unthinkable.
Again.When: 100 years ago in the past, and in the 1990s.Where: Secret Cove, a fictional town in New England, and the mansion on the bluff where Melissa lives.Why: The twist at the end is like a freight train in the night that you don't see coming until it is upon you!
Oh my god, all I remember about this book (I read it when I was 11), was that it SCARED THE SHIT OUT OF ME!!!
I was completely creeped out by this book! It has been years since I read it but I can still remember not wanting to turn out the lights! Great fun! Spooky read!
Spooky, but the ending felt a bit rushed.
I liked it up until the ending. I felt the way the author chose to finish the book was a cop out and he chose the easiest way to tie up the loose ends.
Haven't been this upset/angry while reading a book since "A Child Named 'It'" and while thankfully the book ended well I wish more justice (and bloodshed) was served
Good book, a real page-turner. This is one of John Saul's best. I can see it being a movie.
These books are getting a bit repetitive.
In the book's favor, reading it was just like watching a late 80's/early 90's horror movie.
(Or any small scares for that matter.) Nothing that'll make me check my closet before I go to bed at night, which is what I was hoping for.What this book really was was an exercise in restrained frustration.
To offer as few spoilers as possible, good does (mostly) prevail in the end, but if you like seeing the villains get punished and the truth come to light in one beautiful damning reveal...this is not the book for you.

I found this book on the book shelf in my parent's basement when I was about 13 or so.
My mum had read it at some point.
I was moving on from the R.L. Stein's Fear Street books (I freaking loved those) and thought this book sounded scary.
And boy was it ever!
It scared the pants right off me!
I must have read it 3 or 4 times after that first time as a teenager.
Just the other day I found it sitting on my own basement bookshelf....
It's nostalgic and still a little creepy even after all these years.
It's not often enough that I pick up a paperback and feel so compelled to keep reading as I did with "Second Child". I was first introduced to John Saul as a teenager and remembered liking his work a lot. Really enjoyed this YA Horror novel although the antagonists were nasty and self-absorbed with pretty much no redeeming qualities whatsoever and the good characters were maybe a little TOO good, too innocent - which made them all a bit flat - the plot was fast and kept my interest enough to let that all slide.
It had been fun doing the #40wordreview , which makes you get your point across concisely, so I decided I'm going to try to do all of my reviews this way.**Terri is taken from the lap of luxury at a young age due to her parents' divorce. Now she's back, but her half-sister had everything Teri expected, her room, attention, her father's love. What's a girl to do?**My vote? 4.5/5 stars. Excellent book to get to know John Saul if you don't already.
4,5 Stars ****Second Child by John Saul is a fantasic horrific read that every horror fan would love.It keeps you awake at night because it is so intense. You forget the time because you got sucked into the characters and the story. You feel mixed emotions towards multiple characters.Some of them you really want to slap them in their faces. And some of them you feel so sorry for, you wan to give them a hug.I did enjoyed this one really much I read through it like a train.Rating: 8,8/10
There is nothing creepier than books where children are evil and creepy. I'll admit I was way off on guessing the direction this book was going to take and the route it would take to get there. Parts of it were hard to read because I couldn't wrap my brain around the violence being done by one who feigned such innocence. I enjoyed the ending although I wish the mom/stepmother had gotten what was coming to her but I guess that's what helped it end on what could be called a cliffhanger.
On no....I'm jaded said the reader. But it's a good author, the book has such promise. Promises are meant to be broken. Isn't that the cliche' ? Wishing this was more than a formulaic storyline.
