https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/98407.Nana_Upstairs_and_Nana_Downstairs
This is a touching story of a boy who visits his nana downstairs (his grandmother) and his nana upstairs (his great-grandmother) every Sunday, only to have both nanas "go upstairs" by the end of the story.
I hadn't pre-read it before reading it to my daughter, and so I hadn't anticipated I would be crying by the end of a short children's book.
The story is simple and gentle and not at all overwrought.
It's a sentimental book for me, because my grandmother was Nana, and the edition I got from the library was the same we'd bought my Nana years ago.
I always remember it being at her house...I read the first page of the book, which reads, "When Tommy was a little boy, he had a grandmother and a great-grandmother.
I was very choked up for a while, and while I haven't read the book since I was very young, it has a very different meaning to me now, as myy Nana is also the Nana Upstairs...It's a great book and beautifully written about a boy and his grandmothers.
I loved this book. What a sweet story of Tomie visiting his grandmothers as a young boy.
This is a really nice book for kids about death.
Tommy visits his granparents house and spends time with his great-grandmother (Nana Upstairs).
Then she dies, and her mother says he can't see her anymore.
Later at night, he looks out the window and sees a falling star.
His mother says it is a kiss from Nana Upstairs.
The last page shows Tommy as a man and says that his grandmother (Nana Downstairs) died.
He sees a falling star and knows that now she is also "Nana Upstairs".
I like this book because it is not preachy.
My son brought this home from the library randomly, and we read it tonight.
It's a beautiful and timeless book (very sweet old fashioned illustrations) but I wasn't completely prepared for how emotional I would get.
I should have suspected something from the beginning, but I just dived in and then found myself struggling to read the ending without breaking up.
It's a great book for introducing kids to the idea of the death of a family member, but I have a really hard time reading emotional books, so be careful lest you transmit mt the wrong idea to your kids!!
Qué cuento más lindo. Recuerdo haberlo leído muchas veces cuando era pequeña en la biblioteca del colegio al que iba, pero ciertamente en ese momento no entendía lo que este cuento quería transmitir. Sólo me gustaba. Es cortísimo y tiene unas ilustraciones muy bonitas, las cuales muestran una historia en la que los niños/as aprenden que llega un momento en que los/as abuelos/as mueren. Y que de pronto, la abuelita de arriba y la abuelita de abajo pasan a ser ambas abuelitas de arriba...
This is one of my favorite children's books. I cry at the end every time I read it. It's a nice image to think of Nana's spirit in a shooting star...
A story of the author's memories of his grandmother and great grandmother and of the days he learned of their passing. I used the readalong option with this, and it was much better than it was for the other dePaola book I read - much slower, so a child could follow along.
I feel as if I know Tom, and Nana Upstairs and Nana Downstairs, and all the rest of Tomie's wonderful family as well as if they were my kin, too, and that is truly a special feeling that is hard to fully put into words.
No one who reads this book will ever forget the older Tommy looking out the window and seeing the shooting star, and the last thought that crosses his mind as the book draws to its close.Nana Upstairs & Nana Downstairs belongs in rarified air, among the best picture books that I have ever read.
This is a wonderful story about the interaction between multiple generations in a family and the closeness a boy has with his Nanas. Our girls' grandmother lives with us it is heartwarming to see that the memories Tomie has of his Nanas is dear to him. I hope that our girls will have similarly fond memories.
This one makes me cry every time. A great one for helping children deal with the loss of a family member. You can read even more about Nana Upstairs (and a funny story about the mints) in dePaola's book 26 Fairmount Avenue.
Drawing on reflections of his own childhood, Tomie de Paola's Nana Upstairs and Nana Downstairs is a beautiful story of the circle of life; I feel that it is written in a way to help a child deal with the loss of people whom he loves.
I enjoyed reading this book as a child and now as an adult. I think that this is a good book to read to children to explain the human aging process.
not your everyday read aloud! deals with aging and death of elderly relatives in a very respectful manner
THIS BOOK IS SO STINKING SAD!!! but we read it over and over and over and over again when i was little. it's more sad now then it was then, though.
The story then goes to explain how a shooting star could be his grandmothers giving him a goodnight kiss."Nana Upstairs & Nana Downstairs" had very rustic looking illustrations.
I noticed that every time that death was mentioned in the book, the background was just blank; focusing on the pain that the characters were feeling.
In the end, they mention that the falling star was a kiss from his grandmothers, and they're now both "Nana Upstairs." I personally didn't really love or hate this part.
Nana Upstairs and Nana Downstairs is the autobiographical story of Tomie dePaola's childhood relationship with his Grandmother and Great Grandmother.
dePaola shares some of his childhood memories of things he would do with his grandparents and the strong connection that he had with them.
Tomie dePaola shares his very relatable memories of his loving Grandmother and Great Grandmother that readers can easily connect to with the theme of family and losing a loved one.One book that i would pair with this text would be The Velveteen Rabbit and this is because both of these texts deal with the concept of death and bereavement.
I actually loved this book. I thought the plot of the story was great and kids could relate easily to this. I enjoyed the illustrations and then reading the short dedication at the end about the author's family and his emotional connection to the pictures made me enjoy it even more.
La influencia que tienen nuestros abuelos en nuestra vida, es una historia muy conmovedora que llego a mi corazón.
Most beautiful story ever! Doesn't try to explain death, but experiences death through the heart of a child.
Sweetest story to help children cope with and understand death. Oh, Tomie dePaolo, how I love your books!
Such a beautiful piece...read this in elementary school and it had always stuck with me. Tomie dePaola is a master!
This one we discussed in my library school class in 1991. It's a nice book. I wanted included in books for grief for youth.
What a poignant tribute to grandmothers and family traditions!
via NYPL - Moving and helpful.
It was a simple read to help show family relationships from a boy's perspective. Sweet, traditional illustrations but not much plot. A gentle book for a child who loses a family member.
This books reminds you how much you loved your Nana Upstairs and reminds you to love Nana Downstairs.It's a tear jerker.
A little boy loves his three grandmothers. Two live in the same house and he calls one Nana Upstairs because she his great-grandmother and is feeble so stays in her upstairs room. He calls his other grandmother Nana Downstairs; she is his great-grandmother's daughter and takes care of her mother. Nana Upstairs is his best friend whom he visits often, but one day he is saddened to learn Nana Upstairs is gone forever.This is a sweet story told right out of the author's experience.
Such a touching story
Traditional Literature
