https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2967752-the-elegance-of-the-hedgehog
She said, "Isaiah, have you ever met someone at a party or something who finds out you studied philosophy -- and then they just try to talk to you the whole rest of the night about random philosophers they happen to know about, when all you want to do is play beer pong and find someone to make out with?" I'm not sure I would have voiced the sentiment in exactly the same words, but I know what she was talking about.
everyone gets a participation ribbon!" No. A brat who wants to burn her house down and a concierge who has done nothing with her life except isolate herself are not special, no matter how many books they've read.
But hey, this conflict keeps the book going and maybe makes some kind of a statement about French class differences.
In fact, it probably helps if you’re not French because then you’re reading something foreign.My name is Paloma, and I’m the other protagonist of this book.
But maybe this is part of what helps me sound like a 50-year-old philosopher even though I’m supposed to be a 12-year-old girl, so I guess that’s something.
I have to act like I read them, understood them, and appreciated them as only a brilliant reader could.
The premise is original enough that I was hoping the book would be a real find: within the same super high end Parisian apartment building live 2 misfits: the 54 year old concierge who reads Kant and Tolstoi in secret and a 12 year old girl with abnormally high IQ and suicidal tendencies.
The first half of the book is an excuse for the author's long academic digressions on Kant, phenomenology, William Ockham, oh and Tolstoi.
The only redeeming point about the book for me is that it made me want to re-read Tolstoi!
That so many people love this book makes me fear for the future of literature.
In fact, "novel" is too good a word for its bloggishly self-indulgent, smugly insipid meanderings.
The two main characters (the concierge Renee and the young girl, Paloma) are hypocritical snobs who accuse others of snobbery.
She vaunts her superior intelligence, is very self-involved, and yet fancies herself compassionate.The world view of the book is conservative.
Both Renee and Paloma (the girl) think themselves unconventional, yet they are extremely ordinary in their views.
Actually, the concierge and the 12 year old girl sound pretty much alike.
if you are an artist, a thinker, someone who longs for more, an aestheticist, a dreamer, a seeker.... then read this book. it made me laugh and cry in a way that only a well crafted, well loved, well written book can.
This book is beautiful for its underlying truth: we are all worthy of love, love that will surely be given, if we will but believe we are worthy.My friend Rose, repeated the quote that referenced Renee Michel as being prickly like a hedgehog, but so elegant on the inside.
For me, the section that spoke volumes was the Profound Thought by Paloma in defense of grammar:Personally I think that grammar is a way to attain beauty.
But when you are applying the rules of grammar skillfully, you ascend to another level of the beauty of language.

One is a dowdy concierge in an upscale Paris apartment and the other is an unusual 12-year-old girl living there with her well-to-do family.
However, they might just meet someone with a clear-sighted appreciation for hidden beauty, an easy manner, and a rich vein of empathy for kindred spirits.
The spoiler police prevent me from saying as much as I'd like.In addition to interesting characters, a solid plot, and real wisdom to impart, the book was well-written to boot.
At least I know how to say croissant + fibre = still délicieux.
Έπειτα απο 54 χρόνια μιας ζωής μέσα στη λαθροβίωση ενός μοναχικού πνεύματος,με ατελείωτα ασκητικά αναγνώσματα,με χειμώνες αρρώστειας,με θαλπωρή φιλίας,με αγάπη για την ένοχη ζεστασιά του κόσμου.
(Υπάρχει η κομψότητα του σκαντζόχοιρου)Έπειτα απο 54 χρόνια συναισθηματικής και ψυχικής ερημιάς και σιωπηλών θριάμβων,μέσα σε ένα απομονωμένο εσωτερικό και μοναχικό πνεύμα που μίσησε θανάσιμα τις διακρίσεις και τις κάστες,που αποτέλεσαν διέξοδο για τις μάταιες ψευδαισθήσεις των ελπίδων της,(μυήθηκε στον πνευματικό κόσμο γραμμάτων και τεχνών, (ως αυτοδίδακτος ο σκαντζόχοιρος..)Έπειτα απο αυτά τα 54 χρόνια ασημαντότητας,συστηνόμαστε με την ομορφιά μέσα σε τούτο τον κόσμο.
Η γοητεία της ταπεινής και άσχημης ηλικιωμένης θυρωρού όμοια με αυτή μιας κίτρινης καμέλιας ή ενός ασήμαντου σκαντζόχοιρου.(κρυμμένο επιμελώς "είναι").
Paloma is the daughter of an upper-class family living in the upscale Parisian apartment building where Renée works.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: بیستم ماه دسامبر سال 2010 میلایعنوان: ظرافت جوجه تیغی؛ اثر: موریل باربری؛ مترجم: مرتضی کلانتریان؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، آگاه، 1388، در 360 ص، شابک: 9789644162978؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان فرانسوی - سده 21 مداستان در آپارتمان شماره هفت خیابان گرونل جریان دارد، که آپارتمانی در منطقه ی مرفه نشین شهر است.
پالوما نیز دختری بسیار باهوش و دوازده ساله و یکی از ساکنین همین ساختمان است.
پالوما دختری مهربان و ساکت است، که به این نتیجه رسیده، که خانواده اش زندگی مسخره ای دارند، و او نمیخواهد به سرنوشت آنها دچار شود، او تصمیم دارد در روز تولدش، خانه را بسوزاند و خودکشی کند.
او یک حلقه ی دوستی بین خود، رنه و پالوما ایجاد میکند.
AFTER READING THE BOOK:I just finished the book and I suppose it is better to let it sink in before I do a review, but since I do not think the following statements will be altered by further thought, I will state them now.
Concerning the questions I had before I read the book - I don't think the disparate views on this book have anything to do with the translation or cultural differences.
I think it is simply that people are different.
I will be reading it in French because no book is as good in translation as in its original.
Another unexpected DNF for a book that I've been looking forward to read since 2014. Stopped around page 100 so no rating. It did not work for me because of the pretentious, hypocritical, snobbish characters who accuse others of snobbery. Plus they don't feel real. The most popular 4 reviews of this novel sum up perfectly what I disliked about it so read those if interested.
after giving this book a chance, i have decided that the only chance it deserves is to be methodical

I think the author is giving you plenty of clues that this feeling of superiority is to a large extent illusory.
So why do Renée and Paloma feel superior?
In general, why do people who have a philosophical attitude feel they are better than those around them?
Nick, the narrator, is rather like Renée; he's a colourless, self-effacing person whose main pleasure is to observe the people around him and slowly piece together the pattern of the Dance.
At one point, Nick memorably wonders why he thinks he's better than Widmerpool.
I hope Paloma reads Powell when she's a little older.
Even if I were to overlook the self-obsessed, banal philosophical discourses that dominate this novel, I would still hate 'Elegance of the Hedgehog,' mainly because its characters are contrived and unbelievable.
The main character, a concierge for a luxurious Parisian apartment complex, is a self-taught expert in philosophy, art, and film, yet she pretends to be stupid.
This propels the remainder of the plot, in which a wealthy, chic Japanese retiree moves into her building and doggedly befriends the concierge, somehow knowing they are kindred spirits.
Etc. Paloma is searching for movements that are so profound that they can elevate a life predictably lived, and profundity that can remove the taint of silliness from those around her.There is, of course, so much more than this.
(In this way I was reminded of Perec's Life: A User's Manual, though of course on a very tiny scale.) Renée watches archly as they all reveal their nasty attitudes and dirty secrets, and then she retires to her loge to watch Japanese art films and read phenomenology (and thoroughly debunk many reigning theories) and meditate on camellias, cats, class, grammar, beauty, and on and on.
Much later, we discover a partial reason: (view spoiler)[her pretty sister went to the city, worked for a rich family, had a glamorous life, then returned home pregnant and died, from which Reneé saw danger in acting in defiance of one's class (hide spoiler)].One of the saddest thoughts is the final phrase of this: "I have read so many books...
return again and again throughout the history of art."Art "gives shape to our emotions, makes them visible and, in so doing, places a seal of eternity upon themI'm rarely attracted to looking at a still life, but Barberry almost won me over with words: "it embodies a beauty that speaks to our desire but was given birth by someone else's desire because it cossets our pleasure without in any way being part of our own plans."Sliding Doors"I was fascinated by...
Initial review: 12/11/2008 -I may revisit the 5-star rating in a week or two, but after reading this book through all last night in a single sitting, it seems ungenerous to give it anything less.
Then, too, my inner cynic has to cavil just a little bit at the unlikely perfection of the emotional harmonic convergence towards the book's ending.
And, for that matter, once you get away from the hypnotically, charmingly persuasive voices of the two narrators, the thought might cross your mind that maybe the other residents of the building aren't quite the shallow monsters they are made out to be throughout the book.
And don't we all need that?And be careful of them: for they will, despite their attempts to push you away with their overly intellectual babbling, their deliberate hiding, their desperate and unconscious need to repress their true natures to protect themselves from long-buried pain or more recent and ongoing torment, sneak up on you, seize your heart and send you reeling at the depth of what they reveal about being human, about being loved, about being validated, about being.Their torment is simply the day-to-day experience of living when you are of a certain sensibility: when you think deeply, feel deeply, experience the full pain of injustice and hypocrisy around you and--even worse for these two trapped into the stereotypes imposed on them by their class and time and place--when you are disenfranchised, "out of time" and "out of place".This is the story of two misfits who find comfort, eventually, gratefully, mercifully, in themselves and in others.
I'll buy a book tomorrow but I probably won't read it for at least a year.
I don't know why I do this because, as is the case with this novel, I seem to be putting off reading books that I quite enjoy.This is the first book I've read this year which teeters on the edge between the three and four star rating.
Maybe all twelve-year-old French girls have a throughout understanding of the psychoanalytical studies of Freud, the works of Tolstoy, and Cartesian phenomenology.
people who'd understand the allusions and references peppered throughout the novel.
My friend, Elyse, sent me this wonderful book, and I found it extra sweet that she sent me a book with a poignant friendship theme. This book was thought-provoking, and the characters were endearing, philosophical, and super-intellectual with crazy good vocabularies that kept me on my toes! Seriously! I'm at a loss of how else to describe this book other than to say I really enjoyed it. Thanks, Elyse! ❤
My friend, Elyse, sent me this wonderful book, and I found it extra sweet that she sent me a book with a poignant friendship theme. This book was thought-provoking, and the characters were endearing, philosophical, and super-intellectual with crazy good vocabularies that kept me on my toes! Seriously! I'm at a loss of how else to describe this book other than to say I really enjoyed it. Thanks, Elyse! ❤️
I really loved this little book. The only reason it is not getting 5 stars is because of some of the long, boring, and i felt unnesscary philosophical parts. Just droned on. Like I get it......you are smart. Enjoyed the short/alternating chapters. Loved the characters. True friendship.
I don't think it's much of a spoiler, or much of a surprise to the reader, to find out that the author comes down heavily on the side of Art, in particular when Madame Renee is confronted with the death of one of the tenants in her luxury building: At times like this you desperately need Art. You seek to reconnect with your spiritual illusions, and you wish fervently that something might rescue you from your biological destiny, so that all poetry and grandeur will not be cast out from the world.Thus, to withdraw as far as you can from the jousting and combat that are the appanages of our warrior species, you drink a cup of tea, or perhaps you watch a film by Ozu, and place upon this sorry theater the seal of art and its greatest treasures.
They range from one star and "this book deserves to be shredded one page at a time" to 5 stars and "this is the best book ever written".
I will go half way and say 3 stars and it has good points and bad ones.
There are long philosophical passages which add nothing to the characters or the story.
The good - once the new tenant arrives the main characters all become more likeable and interesting.
By the last page I realised I had actually enjoyed it all quite a lot.
کتاب را که شروع کردم این احساس به من دست داد که نویسنده فلسفه خوانده (به شکل آکادمیک). و بعد ویکیپدیا حدسم را به واقعیت تبدیل کرد. مدتها پیش کسی به من گفت رماننویسی که فلسفه خوانده با فیلسوفی که رُمان بنویسد متفاوت است. حالا مصداقش را پیدا کردم. موریل باربری در مقایسه با امانوئل اشمیت در بعضی از کتابهایش و یا پاسکال مرسیه با «قطار شبانهی لیسبون». دربارهی کتاب چه بگویم که تقریباً من را به کُشتن داد؟ بس که روایت دلچسبی داشت و سیر جملاتی که در عین پرطمطراق بودن، جذبت میکردند و بهت لذت میدادند و چیز
کتاب را که شروع کردم این احساس به من دست داد که نویسنده فلسفه خوانده (به شکل آکادمیک).
درباره‌ی کتاب چه بگویم که تقریباً من را به کُشتن داد؟ بس که روایت دلچسبی داشت و سیر جملاتی که در عین پرطمطراق بودن، جذبت‌ می‌کردند و بهت لذت می‌دادند و چیزهای دیگری که مثل کشفیاتِ باستان‌شناسان ارزشِ نگه‌داری در موزه را دارند.
کتاب سرشار از یک غافلگیری کاملاً هوشمندانه است.با این‌همه بی آن‌که بشود درباره‌ی داستان حرفی زد که در خورِ آن باشد، من به جمله‌ای از کتاب دیگری که مشغول خواندنش هستم (لذت متن) ارجاع‌تان می‌دهم.
What a wonderful book.
While reading, when I wasn't bobbing my head in agreement with the philosophical insights, I found myself consulting a dictionary to learn a new word or idea, or pausing to absorb and consider what I'd just read.
The pages I'd like to reconsider are already marked and my next reading will probably be carried out with a highlighter.
This is on my list of "best books read".
This book made me feel as though my world is too small and that's exactly what I like to find in a good read.
In great things that, like everything else, are doomed to die, or in small things that aspire to nothing, yet know how to set a jewel of infinity in a single moment?""In the end, I wonder if the true movement of the world might not be a voice raised in song.""We cannot cease desiring, and this is our glory, and our doom.
It carries us and crucifies us, delivers us every new day to a battlefield where, on the eve, the battle was lost...""...maybe that's what life is about: there's a lot of despair, but also the odd moment of beauty, where time is no longer the same.
The beginning was intriguing, I was convinced I was going to love this book, not only because of its Frenchness but also because one of its protagonists was a precocious twelve-year old called Paloma.
She's an average looking woman, but she's not average in her knowledge and appreciation of literature (I loved that she was obsessed with Tolstoy), film, music and art in general.
I really enjoyed the art, literature and music references.
The Elegance of the Hedgehog was a mixed bag of some excellent passages, some interesting characters, too much philosophy and an unexpected ending.3.5 starsI've received this book via NetGalley, in exchange for an honest review.
Entonces, lluvia de verano.No me esperaba lo que sucede en las últimas 50 páginas y no creí que fuera a llorar con los últimos 4 párrafos.Sin palabras, me encantó.Si me permiten ahora veré a película.
