https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/148874.The_Quilter_s_Apprentice
There are times that you want to read a book that doesn't have any vampires, werewolves, serial killers and/or detectives from various historical periods and you just want to read a book about normal people, leading everyday lives but with a story to tell and if that's the case then this book is just the thing!
It's very much along the lines of Debbie Macomber's books - the feel rather than the writing style - and that's not a criticism.
I really enjoyed this book and will hopefully read more of them in the future but they're not easy to come by in the UK and are VERY expensive, but maybe worth it once in a while if you're in the need of a feel good fix!
I went to the Elm Creek web site so I could find out the proper order to read the books in so the story is more continuous:"If you would like to read the books in something approximating chronological order, please note the following: * The Christmas Quilt takes place in the interim between The Quilter's Apprentice and Round Robin.
Because they are set entirely in the past and do not feature the contemporary characters, The Sugar Camp Quilt and The Quilter's Homecoming work particularly well as stand-alone novels and can be enjoyed as your first Elm Creek Quilts novel or at any point in the series.
Note to self, don't rush out and buy books recommended by gray haired ladies.
Not to say that gray haired ladies can't recommend excellent books.
Well, at least I can pass this on to my gray haired mother.It's a decent story but a bit predictable.
Ok, very predictable.
I thought the characters were a bit one-dimensional.
In some books like of this genre, the setting can be fascinating and can make the story but I didn't feel like her descriptions of the manor were fleshed out enough to really make me care for it.
Mrs. Compson quickly agrees and as Sarah spends more time with her she learns that Mrs. Compson truly is a wonderful person and also has many stories to tell and quilting knowledge to share.Through these stories she is able to see why Mrs. Compson is the way she is and also why she is so hesitant to join a local quilting guild.
They also try to devise a way to save Elm Creek Manor, Mrs. Compson's beautiful home.The writing was largely in the 3rd person except for when Mrs. Compson is telling her stories.
Sylvia, being a master quilter, was approached my Sarah to give her quilting lessons as payment for helping her.During the quilting sessions, Sarah begins to learn about Sylvia's life; the hardships, a family torn apart by jealousy and betrayal, misunderstandings, loss and a tragedy that couldn't be undone.Sarah so much wants to help Sylvia turn her life around and help her through her sorrows.These two women become fast friends and find a way for Sylvia to have a new beginning at Elm Creek Manor.I am not a quilter, but I did enjoy reading this book.
Sarah, the main character, is learning to quilt — and boy did I learn a lot more about quilting through reading this novel!
As Sarah painstakingly pieces together scraps of fabric in contrasting hues, her instructor, a sour old recluse named Sylvia, shares vignettes from her past.
Then, as Sarah begins stitching her blocks together to create a beautiful whole, Sylvia resolves to put away her hurt and anger and open her heart again to her home and family — making her whole again, too.
This is the fourth Elm Creek Quilts novel that I have read.
This is actually the first in the series and explains how Sarah and Matt became involved with Sylvia Compson and began Elm Creek Quilts.
The storyline was interesting as Sylvia brought Sarah into the world of her youth and young adulthood in order for Sarah to understand the complexities of what had happened to bring Elm Creek Manor to its demise.
In turn, Sarah was able to help Sylvia forgive, forget, and move forward to bring Elm Creek Manor to life again.
Lovely story-within-a-story telling of two women who learn to patch together the unraveled parts of their lives as they stitch together a quilt. My only disappointment is the lack of pictures or drawings of the quilt squares; they were well-described, but I would have loved to see what they looked like.
I always love reading about the elm creek quilters. They seem like old friends.
Of course, Sarah has also whetted her interest in quilts by having stopped in at a quilt shop in town.The more Sarah gets to know Mrs. Compson as well as attending quilting meetings, the more she realizes there is a connection between the two…or should I say three, as the estate, Elm Creek Manor, has its own connection.I do plan to read more of the series as it reminds me of my own love of traditional quilts and Chiaverini includes the history of quilts, their production, and the different types of quilting frames in a very natural manner.
Wonderful book, especially when you're into quilting. I even cried a bit in the end, because isn't it wonderful when people are kind to each other?
Recently I came across a tote of my grandmother's quilts which reminded me of this series.I am not a re-read type of person.
too many books not enough time.But I dont remember much about the series or where I stopped reading( stupid looooooooong book slump and real life) so I am starting over with this series.Sarah and her husband relocate to Waterford for his job.
Mrs Compton also needs gelp inside the house so Sarah accepts the job in exchange for quilting lessons.This book is a good introduction to the series.The author gives us well rounded charctets complete with flaws, some history snd background on the town and info on quilting.
The other reason was that the speech patterns and cadence of the reader was so similar to the speaking voice of a person I know that I listened simply to hear how she would react to situations and how she would pronounce words.Chiaverini is really very good.
I will continue to try to find a digital download for my friend, but encourage interested “readers” to listen to any of the series books that Christina narrrates, especially since, if you are working on a quilt, it is a wonderful story to keep you working far after you would have thought you were finished for the day.
I really enjoyed this book, and I plan to post a Review very soon!
Quilts, intergenerational women's friendships, long-time family conflicts, an old estate in disrepair—this book has all the threads (sorry, I had to) needed to launch a charming series.
Events unspooled exactly as expected and mimicked other feel-good, requisite happy ending books I’d read.
Because I love old houses, I enjoyed the details of restoration of the house and garden.
Perhaps I’d enjoy the other books in the series now that the pattern has been sketched.
For now, I can leave the Elm Creek Quilts Novel series without regret.
It was an OK book, a quick read: no pain, no gain.
For some reason, I almost didn't read this book. I loved it! It was filled with friends and a project and history and loss. And a beautiful ending!
Very sweet. I have read several of the books in this series and was glad to find out how everything started.
Nice story but not much to it.
Though I remember reading this book at least ten years ago and loving it, I was surprised to discover how much I had forgotten.
Soon Matt finds himself working to restore the grounds of Elm Creek Manor, an old historic home, owned at one time by the Bergstroms, known for raising thoroughbred horses.
Sylvia, Elm Creek Manor's only living heir, who has returned to her family estate after her sister Claudia's passing, has asked Sarah to help her ready the many rooms in the estate for sale and auction.
Sarah falls in love with Elm Creek Manor and the Bergstrom family who she has come to know through Sylvia's stories about her life at the historic house.
This is the second book of Jennifer Chiaverini's Elm Creek Quilt series that I have listened to recently.
The first book, 'The Lost Quilter', had more depth to it because of the historical references and the characters, in my opinion.'The Quilter's Apprentice' had just a hint of historical fiction woven into a sweet story about a relationship between a grouchy, sad, very direct older woman who is a master quilter, and a bubbly, idealistic, young woman wanting to learn the craft and inspire the older woman.
The passages about quilting I found informative and was left wanting to learn more.
This book was a fun introduction to the quilting world, which I've been interested in for quite a while.
As the book progresses, the stories move ahead in time and bridge the gap between past and present.
It wasn't particularly difficult to figure out what they were going to do to solve the problem of the old house, but it was still enjoyable to read because this author definitely knows how to show the reader what happens, even when a character is telling a story about it.
Definitely reading Round Robin, and will probably pick up the other books from the same world!
This story was a warm and inviting escape into the world of quilting and friendship.
I was able to identify with Sarah as she lost her sense of self when she was jobless, friendless, and lonely in a new town.
She did have mom issues that I assume will be dealt with in a later book and acted a bit immature at times, but the imperfections were mostly interesting to me.I loved the sassy Sylvia and her story and look forward to continuing with this series in the future.
This is a great book for quilters, but also for anyone who loves reading about the often complex friendships between women.
A quick, easy read.
Amazingly clean.
Sometimes I think she struggles with describing the quilts, although being a quilter myself, I know many of the blocks by name and can visualize them without a description.
She does a wonderful job weaving the stories into the plot.
I think she could have done more description, as well and development of the relationship between Sarah and Sylvia.
It seemed a little too scripted - it happened too easily.
Oh, and I wished that she had told the story behind the "contrary wife." I think it's so funny that I'll have to make one myself someday!
A perfectly sweet little novel to charm a crafty reader.
There is no pretension in this novel, no blood and guts, no thrilling intrigue.
It is what it is - a nice novel that centres on the friendships of a small community that come together to solve each others problems and celebrate each others achievements.
Matt begins working for the prickly Mrs Compson and, somehow, entices Sarah to become cleaner/companion at the large, rundown Elm Creek Manor estate.
In exchange Mrs Compson begins instructing Sarah on the art of quilting.
Sarah moves to a new town with her husband and must look for a new job.
She is an accountant but is looking for a different career direction.
While searching for a new position she meets Mrs. Compson, an expert quilter.
She agrees to exchange manual labor for quilt lessons.
I wanted to like this more than I did because it dealt with quilting.
Unfortunately the characters of Sarah and her husband come across as weak and boring with heavy doses of banality.
Mrs. Compton was the only interesting character and after a while my interest in her waned because it was relentlessly stereotyped.
I really enjoyed this book...it is a very heartfelt and inspiring read. This is a series with 20 books, and I look forward to reading all of them. Jennifer Chiaverini is a new author for me and I really like her writing style. Her characters are real and her books flow with ease. These are perfect books to read this time of year, they are cozy and warm. If you like a good book, add this one to your bookshelf!
I definitely needed my google search engine as I read this book! So many quilting terms were used and explained really well, but I really wanted to see what the quilt patterns were that were brought up. I absolutely soaked up this beautiful story and although predictable, everything that I wanted to happen, happened, including the desire to make a quilt! (What? It could happen!) can't wait to read more installments!
This was a guick and easy book to read. I needed something light with a feel good story. I enjoyed learning about the quilts and their names. I have tried quilting in the past and can appreciate the time and work that goes into making one. I will probably read some of the others in this series.
This is the very first book in the series when Sarah McClure reluctantly takes a job with Sylvia Compson and how their uneasy relationship matures and deepens as they get to know each other. This is the beginning of the Elm Creek Quilt Camp. More pieces to the puzzle fall into place!
This was a wonderful book. It was just what I needed to read today. It was sweet and good and innocent. I loved Sarah's relationship with Mrs. Compson. I loved the stories she told and I loved the quilting. It was just a beautiful book.
