https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/551876.Tikki_Tikki_Tembo
As someone who understand Chinese & Japanese language, I feel it is very annoying to tell a wrong thing to the children.
As for the story, it's a very simple and at the end was telling us why Chinese people giving their children a short names rather than great long names.
I don't think so because there is no base to prove that Chinese people has long names before.
I think it's sad to pass this incorrect information to our children.
Apart of that, it is sad thing to tell 2nd child that he is 'little' or 'nothing' means not loved by the mother.

However, emotionally, my childhood experience with Tikki Tikki Tembo and how it was used to poke some rather nasty and culturally insensitive fun at not only Chinese but basically at ALL types of foreign accents still smarts a bit and gives me some rather strange flashbacks whenever I think back to the book (especially since now, after having studied a bit of linguistics during the course of my university education, I also have to wonder whether that long name of the favoured son is actually bona fide Chinese or just some strung together nonsense sounds the author believes could be Chinese, as there is also no supplemental information with regard to the genesis of this claimed and supposed "traditional" Chinese folk tale, no sources listed and yes, also no way to even remotely figure out whether Tikki Tikki Tembo's long and unwieldy name is therefore really actual Chinese characters written in Latin script).
“Tikki Tikki Tembo” is an old Chinese folktale retold by Arlene Mosel along with illustrations by Blair Lent and it is about how a young boy named Tikki tikki tembo-no sa rembo-chari bari ruche-pip peri pembo (what a name!) gets into big trouble because of his long name.
“Tikki Tikki Tembo” is certainly a great book for children who are fans of Chinese folklore!I have always found this book extremely interesting to read, especially about the part where the first sons are given long and extravagant names, while the second sons are always given short names in Ancient China.
Tikki Tikki Tembo - what you get is a fun and simple children's tale. Lots of repitition. Children falling down a well which is always hilarious. The illustrations are nice too.However, it's as genuinely Chinese as the Chinese place in the food court. And I really don't think anyone is buying this for source material on Chinese culture. Then again, I am a white guy talking about ethnicity.Cute little story that my unborn baby liked, but I'll see if it withstands the test of time.
We love this story!
It's a folktale with gorgeous and funny illustrations and a story that is a tongue-twister to read aloud.
Our girls love saying the number one precious son's name aloud...over and over and over again.
We've read this book several times.January 2018 update: Years later, looking back at this book, I can understand criticisms of this book based on racial stereotyping and the inaccurate portrayal of Chinese people.
But the fact that it is based on an ancient Chinese folktale makes me less anxious about it myself.
I can't help but love the contrast between the two boys' names and the lyrical way the words flow.
Since I have a rather perverse fascination with being a killjoy when it comes to cultural myths about the Chinese, I looked up something I've been meaning to find for a long time.http://www.fairrosa.info/disc/tikki.htmlOf course I already knew that the name of the title character didn't sound Chinese at all.
While I generally agree with the notion that the story doesn't accurately reflect historical Chinese culture, I still nonetheless like the the tale, especially the illustrations.
There's this one page where Chang is gearing up to say the name, and he bends over backward to a 90-degree angle...
I love that one.
I love this story.
I love the repetition.
I love the rhythm of the repeated name.
It's funny.
But it doesn't feel at all Chinese.
It feels condescending--those funny Asians with their nonsense language.
I had just returned from living in China and wanted to give the kids a feeling for actaul Chinese folktalesTiki Tiki Tembo is probably based on a Japanese story in which the dad can't decide on a name and chooses all of them: Jugemu-jugemu Gokonosurikire Kaijarisuigyo-no Suigyomatsu Unraimatsu Furaimatsu Kunerutokoroni-sumutokoro Yaburakojino-burakoji Paipopaipo-paiponoshuringan Shuringanno-gurindai Gurindaino-ponpokopino-ponpokonano Chokyumeino-chosuke.
I loved this book when I was a kid and have really enjoyed reading it to my son. He loves trying to say the whole name-lots of fun.
I first heard this read in the library at our elementary school. Then I heard the recorded version and I loved it. I remember going home and telling my mom the whole story. That year in school I checked it out over and over and over again, until the librarian made me pick a different book. I recently found this in a box and it made my heart happy.
Wow! Remember this book from my childhood...brings back lots of good memories.
Two Chinese brothers, the first-born named Tikki tikki tembo-no sa rembo-chari bari ruchi-pip peri pembo and the second born named Chang, both fall into a well at different points in the story.
Chang is immediately saved by the old man, but it takes longer for Tikki Tikki tembo-no sa rembo-chari bari ruchi-pip peri pembo to be saved and recover due to his long name.
The title, Tikki Tikki Tembo, does not accurately represent the ancient Chinese culture.
3c.) Firstly, an example of the title’s inaccuracy is the first-born son’s name “Tikki tikki tembo-no sa rembo-charo bari ruchi-pip peri pembo” (mentioned on several pages).
The title Tikki Tikki Tembo is a shortening of a very long name that poses a problem for one of the characters in this book about two brothers.We read it to our five-year-old after looking at some of Jim Trelease's suggestions in The Read-Aloud Handbook for "primary children who had not been read to" that were chosen for the purpose of lengthening children's listening attention spans.
He will go over books on his own but doesn't hear quite as much of the good literature our older son had heard by this age.Tikki Tikki Tembo was a great book for lengthening that listening time and increasing interest in read-alouds, just as Trelease said.
We really enjoyed this one as a family.
My 5 yr old remembered when we were studying China and loved the pictures, especially of the one with the dragon.
It was a little wordy to be less than a level 3, but as I read it, even the preschoolers seemed fascinated.
It was probably the repetition of Tikki Tikki Tembo's name over and over again.
I stumbled over it more than once, but it has a wonderful rhythm to it.
(It'd be great for a drinking game - not with children of course.) :)Overall, a nice cultural learning book that kept us all interested.
Not a real chinese folktale but still a fun book to read. Gotta love trying to say the entire name...Tikki tikki tembo-no sa rembo-chari bari ruchi-pip peri pembo.
Read by the actress Marcia Gay Harden, kids and adults alike can enjoy the tongue twister of a name (that I'll proudly admit my son can rattle off in no time flat) story that many of us have grown up with.TIKKI TIKKI TEMBO is an old Chinese folktale explaining why they have such short first names.
But when the roles become reversed and Tikki Tikki tembo falls into the well, poor Chang runs out of breath trying to relay the message to those that can help rescue him.
I'll start with the good:Tikki Tikki Tembo is a lovely, amusing, engagingly repetitive, rhythmic story with detailed, oddly charming illustrations:I'm not a child anymore, but I just LOVE repeating the name of the main character: Tikki tikki tembo-no sa rembo-chari bari ruchi-pip peri pembo. Haha!Also, for some reason it amused me to no end when the Old Man With the Ladder unceremoniously performed CPR on Tikki tikki tembo's younger brother Chang: He pumped the water out of him and pushed the ai
Haha!Also, for some reason it amused me to no end when the Old Man With the Ladder unceremoniously performed CPR on Tikki tikki tembo's younger brother Chang:
He pumped the water out of him and pushed the air into him, and pumped the water out of him and pushed the air into him, and soon Chang was just as good as ever!
This book is a great Chinese folktale.
This is a fun book to get your children to join in saying Tikki, Tikki, Tembo's full name.
I will add this to my list of must reads especially when we celebrate Chinese new year in my class.Extension Activity: After reading this book I will retell this folktale with puppets.
While I retell it, I will allow the children to say Tiki Tiki Tembo's name when it comes time.
The children will most likely memorize the name by the end of the puppet show.
I remember loving this book as a child and now my boys love it, too. We've had it from the library for 3 days, and it's been read no less than a dozen times. We love everything about it: the intricate artwork, the brother relationship, the pace of the language, the super long name. I wish only that it was an accurate portrayal of a Chinese folktale. A little internet research has quickly revealed that it isn't so.
The kids loved memorizing the boys name. This was a favorite of Jacob's. Will need to pull this one out again :)..krb 2/23/16Ellie read for naptime..krb 3/17/16Jacob read for his November Pizza Hut reading challenge..krb 11/2/16 At age 10 he now rates this 3 stars.Pulled this little gem of a book out again and it brought back such wonderful memories of the kids memorizing the little boys name and then saying it over and over and over and over all day..krb 8/10/17
Clever and funny myth book concerning birth order and the benefit of short names. So it's not really a Chinese legend or using Chinese names. And it almost certainly adds to misconceptions. It's still a cute story with nice art.
The mother had two children and named the older son with a very long name and the younger son with a short name because that was the custom in the ancient china.
The mother got scared and told the boy to go look for the old man with the ladder to get the boy out of the well.
The mother finally got the message and told the boy to ran and tell the old man with the ladder to rescue the boy.
Time passed and by the time the younger brother got to where the old man was and woke him up from his nap It was a little bit late for the boy in the well.
What intrigues me now is that looking over the reviews I find so many pointing out the "racism" of the book and also the incorrect cultural errors thus taking away from the actual story of itself.
There may be those particular things in the book but it would be like putting down "Gone With the Wind" while for those who are so much into looking for racism check out the original publishing date.
What has fascinated me with the re-reading of this one and that other is seeing that the old man in the other looks so much to be the Man With the Ladder.
There was a well that their mother had told them to not go near because they will fall in, sure enough Chang fell in, so Tikki Tikki Tembo-no sa rembo-chari bari ruchi-pip peri pembo ran to his mother to tell her what happened, and she told him to find the old man with the long ladder to get him out.
Then, after on celebration they went back to eat a snack, and Tikki Tikki Tembo-no sa rembo-chari bari ruchi-pip peri pembo fell in this time!
Now the Chinese have started naming every child with a short name to avoid this problem.This is a comical picture book, that was also one of my childhood favorites.
I had this incredibly long name on the board with some words covered to see who was familiar with the story and build anticipation.
Some kids would enter the room straight to the reading area to see what book we might be reading and were excited about the challenge they knew the answer...
this triggered other kids to get excited about having some connection with our read-alouds and more kids would add to the list of what books interested them.
We focused on Tikki's name on the board and had kids walk up and uncover the part they knew.
I loved this story as a kid.However, the truth is, as an adult I recognize it sounds a lot more Japanese than Chinese.
Also the pictures are a lot more Japanese than Chinese.
It is loosely traditional lore.When I think of how to bring it into a classroom, sadly I can't see it being done like when I was a child.
I would rather see it brought in upper elementary to see if children can find the discrepancies that lead a critical reader into realizing all isn't as it seems.I was very disappointed in this book as an adult when thirty years after being read it I could fondly quote the long name.
Bleah.Even though I liked it as a child, the racism (I am a first generation American and was tuned in to such things even when young) bothered me.
(I had my doubts that the title one meant "most wonderful..." even when I was young enough to be read to.Also there is that little annoyance that you don't have to use the whole name, you can just use a shortened version of the name, as in the shortened version of the name IS THE TITLE OF THE WHOLE (*&^&) BOOK.
I never read this to my child.
The character's name brought such rhythm to the story, it was almost intoxicating to say.
Children love to say the name!
Let them be a part of the story!
As many children's story share, the moral of this story is to listen when you are told something.
Throughout the humor students will see that their are times when things that seem fun can be dangerous, and the rules are in place to keep us safe.
With this story, culture is brought into the classroom and students can see that sometimes there are stories that are made up to explain some traditions.
This is tale of young Tikki tikki tembo-no sa rembo-chari bari ruchi-pip peri pembo, who is the first born son, and his little brother called Chang!
I can imagine having a lot fun reading this with a class of lower KS1 children and possibly role playing Tikki Tikki Tembo falling down the well and Chang rushing, with his little legs, to tell Mother.
This could be a fun and exciting way to merge drama and literacy.
The illustrations by Blair Lent are lovely and really accompany the story well; they are mostly done in earthly colours which we could also discuss as a class.
When I was younger I absolutely loved reading this book.
I found it on a website listing social issue books, and decided to read it again.
His younger brother grows to strongly dislike his own very short name because it doesn't carry the same meaning as his older brothers.
One day Tikki Tikki Tembo falls into a well and the only one who can save him is his younger brother, but the younger brother has trouble getting help because he keeps having to repeat his brothers long name over and over.
Finally, he receives help and is able to save his older brother.
