https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13529.March
It's not that I don't like any historical fiction, I just think that it's a really hard thing to do right, without simplifying everything.
Nah, I really just hate historical fiction.
And I think that March is a perfect example of historical fiction gone wrong.
I hate it in historical fiction when...
I hate it in historical fiction when...
I hate it in historical fiction when...
the main character seems to be best friends with every famous person of the time period.
In this book, the main character hangs with Waldo Emerson, Henry Thoreau (notice she drops the "Ralph" and "David" parts because, you know, they're like close friends), Nathaniel Hawthorne, and John Brown.
I wanted desperately to like this book!
"Little Women" is one of my wife's favs, and I'm a sucker for Civil War novels (all five billion of 'em).
But this book, though elegantly written, struck me as too schmaltzy and too overly preachy to enjoy.
These introductions provide insight to his character and highlight a soldier's struggle in deciding what to write home, weighing the consequences of being truthful against a need to protect loved ones from the horrors of war: And every day, as I turn to what should be the happy obligation of opening my mind to my wife, I grope in vain for words with which to convey to her even a part of what I have witnessed, what I have felt.
These chapters offer the same insightful gems from Marmee (Mrs. March) that readers gleaned from her character when reading Little Women:I am not alone in this.
MARCH is the story of a once wealthy man with strong abolitionist convictions who leaves his wife and children behind to minister to union troops hoping to free and educate slaves.Set during the Civil War, MARCH is filled with slavery's abominable cruelties that test a man's faith in humanity and unmask shortcomings that haunt him during a life threatening illness.As the father in Alcott's Little Women this 2006 Pultizer Prize winner depicts Mr. March's tumultuous life during wartime with only bits of connection to his family, but is a great read nonetheless.
Come on, a vegetarian, Unitarian, abolitionist, transcendentalist, book-lover from the North is just one HUGE cliche that, frankly, probably did not exist during the Civil War. I know that Louisa May Alcott's parents (as that is the subject of this book) were revolutionary for their time (in fact, Bronson Alcott was indeed a vegetarian and attempted a community based farm named "Utopia-something-or-other"), but they weren't a tired-out, modern day example of tolerance.
To reinforce my point, here is a quote from the book: "You must know that we in the South suffer from a certain malnourishment of the mind: we value the art of conversation over literary pursuits, so that when we gather together it is all for gallantries and pleasure parties .
There are parts to this story I really enjoyed, and it served as a great reminder of how powerful Civil War historical fiction can be.
Other than Grace, I would say no thank you.Now, Little Women is one of my all-time favorite books.
The March family sure did get around-- historical style.
He's terrible to his wife, prizing public civility over her very human emotions.
Mr. March is outraged too...
The author changed so much about Alcott's characters, why not go that extra step and kill off dear Mr. March?
Other than the name and a few references to the little women at home, it has virtually no resemblance to Alcott's work, although Mrs. March is included throughout.
This story is about Mr. March, the husband and father of the famous family, and his pursuit of self perfection that leads him to join the Union army as a chaplain and help contribute to the cause of freeing the slaves.
This was a cause dear to the March family as they had used their home as a stopover on the underground railroad.
Geraldine Brook's writing is astounding and kept me turning pages because I had to know what was going to happen.
It is not dissimilar to Dream of the Celt by Mario Vargas Llosa is its unqualified condemnation of the institution of slavery and the horrors that man is capable of inflicting on fellow humans in the delusion of feelings of superiority in terms of race - and this on both sides of the Mason-Dixon Line (see Pychon's magnificent Mason&Dixon for how the line was drawn initially).
I can only applaud teary-eyed the Pulitzer that Brooks won after writing this stunning and thought-provoking novel and want to read more from this incredibly talented writer.
Geraldine Brooks must have had the same fascination with Little Women that so many of us former little girls did.
The story opens with March (never a first name) writing a letter home to Marmee.
(We find that Marmee is was everyone called her, not just the girls.) As he finishes his writing, the story takes us to the uncensored version of his past and what is happening to him at the moment.
She is by far a much more interesting character and the story definitely takes off once she takes over the narration in the second part of the book, when she comes to the hospital to nurse her husband back to health.
I have a lot of thoughts.I've thought about reading this book off and on for years, since it a) won the Pulitzer, and b) is about Mr. March, the mostly absent father in LITTLE WOMEN, one of my favorite books.
Had they not been characters I "knew" from another book, this would have been hard enough to read, since reading unlikeable POV characters is not my favorite thing, but since March and Marmee are beloved figures from my childhood, it started to make me think that Brooks had some vindictive reason for doing this.
The best Civil War novel I’ve read. The best slavery novel I’ve read. One of the best historical novels I’ve ever read, period. Brooks’s second novel uses  Little Women  as its jumping-off point, but is very much its own story. Louisa May Alcott’s father, Bronson Alcott, was too prickly to come across well in a fictional guise (as her other family members did in Little Women), so it’s little wonder that she decided he would be a background figure in that novel. The Alcott family patriarch was an
The best Civil War novel I’ve read.
The best slavery novel I’ve read.
Louisa May Alcott’s father, Bronson Alcott, was too prickly to come across well in a fictional guise (as her other family members did in Little Women), so it’s little wonder that she decided he would be a background figure in that novel.
Brooks relied on Bronson Alcott’s journals and letters in creating Mr. March’s voice, but has succeeded in adding nuance to an often unfairly maligned personality.The book opens with March, a thirty-nine-year-old Civil War chaplain, stationed in Norfolk, Virginia and writing a letter to his wife and four daughters.
Since the "little women" in Alcott's novels were based on the members of her own family, it makes sense that Mr. March would be based on her father and that the March family would be acquainted with the same people they were.
. The author's journalistic background definitely helped her to give attention to the proper details needed to research such a book.I initially did not recognize the name of the author as being the author of Nine Parts of Desire: The Hidden World of Islamic Women, a book that I loved so much that I ...
I now know, having perused Geraldine Brooks' website, that March won the 2006 Pulitzer prize for fiction.
That is what would have been reprehensible.'" (258)Later, Grace continues: I simply ask you to see that there is only one thing to do when we fall, and that is to get up, and go on with the life that is set in front of us, and try to do the good of which our hands are capable for the people who come in our way.
Especially that he risked her good standing by seducing her and then rushing to her father for a quick marriage, thinking he was saving her.
2)The nausiating difference in what Marmee thought about Mr. March going to war and what Mr. March thought she was thinking.
I'm sure Brooks was trying to make the Little Women charachters more realistic, but the division and lack of true communication between Marmee and Mr. March really bothered me.
I don't even feel like Mr. March repents of his pride, so what was the point of the story?
There is March, the main character, an abolitionist, who leaves his family to join the American Civil War as a chaplain.
Another stamp on history, this book (which uses fact as a scaffold) for a race that has endured unspeakable crimes.All this, told with the charm of historical language and modeled after the classic, Little Women .
Since the classic was about how a year lived at the "edge of war" changed the characters of those little women, Brooks wanted to give the father a voice he never had.
And my little women.

but the theme which stayed with me was the vast discrepancy between Mr. March's ideals and moral certainties and the harsh realities of war.
And as Mr. March discovered, when at war, both sides of a conflict are equally fervent in their belief that 'God' is on their side and has given them the claim to the moral high ground....
Although I admired Mr.March's idealism, I couldn't help but feel that his idealism, unchecked by a senses of the reality of the world, left him foolishly charging headlong into situations which ended up making matters worse..
The second is the more compelling story, and probably more accessible to those who are unfamiliar with L.M. Alcott's novels.It's probably a good thing I'll never get around to reading Little Women again, because March seems like it was written to slaughter a few babies, and a reread would possibly be spoiled by my constant justifications of my irritations with this Pulitzer Prize winning novel*.
Me gustó el protagonista al mismo tiempo que me desagradaron muchas de sus decisiones.En fin, a pesar de algunos malos tragos, amé leer sobre los inicios de la relación entre Robert y Marmee; sobre las similitudes entre esta última y Jo (ese "carácter podrido" de ambas, sin miedo a nada ((view spoiler)[aunque, llegando al final, cuando la trama cambia al punto de vista de Marmee, ciertas actitudes o revelaciones fueron algo decepcionantes o terminaron por angustiarme más de lo que ya estaba) (hide spoiler)]; sobre John Brooke llevando la señora March a ya saben donde si leyeron Mujecitas; cierta escena que tiene como gran protagonista a BETH---porque,¿lo dije ya?
In March,  Geraldine Brooks imaginatively writes a back story for Little Women by turning a beloved children's novel into an adult tour de force. She takes on many of the critical social issues facing Americans in the Nineteenth Century and weaves them into the lives of the fictitious March family. . The mostly absent father from Little Women takes center stage and confronts the prevailing moral crisis of the day-slavery and the  abolitionist response. Real historical figures are introduced and
In March,  Geraldine Brooks imaginatively writes a back story for Little Women by turning a beloved children's novel into an adult tour de force. She takes on many of the critical social issues facing Americans in the Nineteenth Century and weaves them into the lives of the fictitious March family.
  . The mostly absent father from Little Women takes center stage and confronts the prevailing moral crisis of the day-slavery and the  abolitionist response. Real historical figures are introduced and the interaction between fact and fiction makes for an unforgettable reading experience. This is outstanding historical fiction.
I simply ask you to see that there is only one thing to do when we fall, and that is to get up, and go on with the life that is set in front of us, and try to do the good of which our hands are capable for the people who come in our way.
It wasn't until I was reading parts of her thoughts that I saw that the book wasn't so much about Mr. March; it was about war and family and what it means to be a good person in a terrible time.
Having loved Caleb's crossing, I decided to check out all of Brooks' novels.
Alcott gave us relatively little about Meg, Jo, Beth, and Amy's father, and Brooks uses this book to imagine his life on the front during the Civil War. March served as a clergyman for the Union troops, and Brooks takes us directly into the war.
For the character of Mr. March, Brooks researched Bronson Alcott, Louisa May's father, and embeds details from Bronson's life into the novel.
This is simply the best sort of historical novel there is, as it doesn't rely on using current lingo and interests to frame the structure and content of her books.
I ended up liking this quite a bit more than I expected to. I really liked the structure of it. Brooks crafted this really well with rich details and well developed characters is a fairly short novel. I do wish that I had read this instead of listening to it. The narration for part one was great but when it switched POVs the narration was too similar. I wish there would have been a female narrator for part 2.
Using a slightly antique, formal style, Brooks has evoked the 19th century but her skill means that the words danced off the page for me.The narrative structure is excellent.
March’s letters provide insight into one aspect of his thinking, while his first person narrative shows other facets, more honest and detailed than what he sends home to his family.
Instead, Brooks has created an insightful work of adult fiction, in which mature issues of love, loyalty, fidelity, family, ego and pride are examined, to my satisfaction as a reader.The historical events fascinated me.
Brilliant rendition of a the wartime experiences of the absent father in Alcott's "Little Women", with much return in memory of his life before meeting his beloved wife Marmee and the family accommodation to his loss of fortune due to funding of the abolitionist John Brown.
Essentially the story is about the nature of love.
Yet, the commitment to such causes can lead to neglect of family, and the human failings and mistakes in facing such challenges can make one feel unworthy of such love or make it seem a selfish refuge.
The heroism of March and the tragedies surrounding his efforts are very moving, and the pathway back to life is a triumph of the human spirit.
Having only recently re-read Little Women for the first time in many years, this seemed the ideal time to tackle a book which draws on that novel for its inspiration.
Brooks notes in the afterward to the novel that Little Women is concerned with the way a year lived at the edge of war worked changes in the characters of the March sisters, but what war did to their father was left unstated.
Brooks based Mr March on Louisa May Alcott’s father Branson Alcott: an entirely acceptable approach given that Alcott drew extensively on her family circumstances in writing Little Women.
This is essential to carry us through those bitter days of war, for we need a man willing to mull over events of that time but also to guide us.He was sincere, but must have also been painfully strict with his family: …I had come in stages to a different belief about how one should be in this life.
I laughed to read this, for the sincerity of the father must be the disappointment of the daughters.Part I is written in the voice of Captain March, chaplain of the Union Army.
Part II is written in the voice of his wife, Marmee March née Day of Concord, Massachusetts.
But the book itself..I think Brooks' writing style is fabulous, I really enjoyed that.
I found the end disappointing, almost as if Brooks couldn't be bothered to find a way to redeem March (though perhaps that was never her intention - it's just that I would have liked to see March's pride broken one way or another).Some other reviewers have commented how Brooks seemed to have completely missed Marmee's character - I couldn't agree more.
I found Brooks' Marmee totally out of character as originally created by Alcott, and cannot say I liked her at all.If you didn't know Alcott's "Little Women", perhaps it wouldn't matter too much and be quite enjoyable.
This was a wonderful book that will stay with me for some time.
******Spoiler******The protagonist of the story is a middle-aged March, a character largely based on Louisa May Alcott’s talented father Bronson Alcott.
March’s story is narrated in the first person and is broken into three timeframes: 1) March is a Yankee peddler in the 1830s-1840s, staying for a prolonged period in Virginia where he secretly teaches slaves to read and write.
A middle-aged abolitionist father volunteers as a chaplain at the start of the war and ends up back in the same place in Virginia where he experienced slavery first hand.
