https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30164694-the-man-who-watched-trains-go-by
With The Man Who Watched Trains Go By, each chapter begins with a brief epigraph, for example, the epigraph for Chapter 1 reads “In which Julius de Coster the Younger gets drunk at the Little-Saint George, and the impossible suddenly breaches the dykes of everyday life.” Here's my choice of epigram for the book itself: "The Case of Kees Popinga, or how upon hearing shocking revelations, a well-to-do bourgeois bean counter goes completely berserk."The first pages provide the setup: One icy December evening in the northern Dutch city of Groningen, forty-year-old family man Kees Popinga walks down to the dock to check on a cargo delivery he scheduled himself in his capacity as head clerk of an esteemed shipping firm.
Although he is a killer, you wouldn't think it.Leaving his family behind after the company he works for goes down the pan, he heads from the Netherlands to France completely at random and fueled by dark impulses, but always remaining calm and relaxed, unaware of being dragged ever lower due to his resilience and absolute confidence in his ability to outwit the French police, which he is good at for a time, however, when his downward spiral is set in motion from the moment he wakes up earlier in the story, there is no going back.The psychological portrait of a criminal on the run and his descent into insanity is the core of the novel.
The Man Who Watched Trains Go ByToo long caught up in the daily routine of his life as a Dutch petty bourgeois, the good father of the family Popinga has just been fired free of the job, he intends to take example on his former boss, have a mistress like the beautiful Pamela but he twist the blow like a duck.Became a fugitive, Popinga jumps on a train ...
a very good thriller without his famous Simenon character Maigret.
The man who loved watching the trains pass, it scrolls at full speed ....
The boss confesses massive fraud and explains that Popinga's cushy life will soon be unraveling.I've read Simenon before ( Red Lights) and been unimpressed.
But this one grabbed me when Popinga returned home from his impromptu meeting with his boss and his wife notices something is wrong with him:"You're white as a sheet.
What's wrong is, I want you to leave me the fuck alone!"Popinga's life changes, dramatically from that demarcating conversation.
What follows though is not just a man-leaves-wife-and-goes-on-adventure-to-find-himself yarn.
A darkness reveals itself soon after Popinga steps on a train.
And we are not totally revolted.
Kees Popinga, the main character of  The man who watched the trains go by,  is an exemplary husband and caring father of two teenage children.
He spends his evenings in the warmth of hearth and home, smoking cigars and leading trivial conversations with Mrs. Popinga.
Popinga under the influence of a single impulse becomes the individual not associated with anyone or anything, with no idea, object, place, man.
From a decent though dull citizen and respected man, tormented by everyday routine becomes a pervert from Amsterdam, hunted by the entire French police.

The Man Who Watched Trains Go By has a similar premise, except the transition in the protagonist's life is relatively more sudden.
One fateful night, his predictable life takes an unexpected turn and Popinga breaks down.
While Popinga takes pride in being so clear-headed and smart, the reader can only feel sorry for the poor fellow's foolishness.
Like those times when you find yourself yelling at someone on your TV screen.Simenon also sprinkles the plot with suspense which adds another interesting dimension to the story.There are sure to be many Popingas in the world around us who are wearied of their stressful lives and wish to breathe free.
Cuando usted reciba esta carta, ya no me llamaré Kees Popinga ni seré el criminal que huye de la policía.
Tendré un nombre honorable, un estado civil indiscutible y formaré parte de esa clase social que puede permitírselo todo porque tiene dinero y cinismo.… No existe prisión mientras no se perciben los barrotes que delimitan el espacio que nos rodea y el consiguiente cautiverio que conllevan.
Kees Popinga descubre sus limitaciones, los márgenes de su propia existencia.
Aunque se advierta apresuramiento en el desenlace de la novela y cierta candidez en la precisión de los rasgos temperamentales del protagonista, 'El hombre que miraba pasar los trenes' constituye una novela soberbia, comedida, escueta y acerada, un estudio psicológico sutil e inquietante.
Για την ακρίβεια 2.5 αστεράκια. Μου άρεσε πολύ λίγο. Δεν μπόρεσα να μπω στο κλίμα. Ελπίζω να μην είναι όλα έτσι. Όσα έχω διαβάσει με επιθεωρητή Μαιγκρέ μου άρεσαν πολύ.
This was diverting, though not my favorite of the six or so Simenons I have read so far, all on the New York Review Books imprint.
Kees Popinga, a buttoned down manager of a ships chandlery in Holland, goes on a bit of a rampage after his boss tells him that he has run the business into the ground.
This is the same business, the watchword for rectitude and probity in the little port town in which it operates, into which Kees has invested every cent of his savings.
My favorite NYRB Simenons so far have been Dirty Snow and Strangers In The House.
Il mio approccio con Simenon è stato positivo.Ho apprezzato il suo stile asciutto ed elegante.Il pro
Those who leave by night- trains leave for ever - Kees Popinga from The Man Who Watched The Trains Go ByKees Popinga is a dull man who lives in a well-ordered existence, where everything including his wife is admirably above-board, "one might have said of her..that she was the ' best make' of Dutch wife;" his house the "best planned;" his neighborhood in the "healthiest and most attractive part in Groningen." He is Simenon's psychologically marginal archetype - "a middle-aged man, after years o
- Kees Popinga from The Man Who Watched The Trains Go ByKees Popinga is a dull man who lives in a well-ordered existence, where everything including his wife is admirably above-board, "one might have said of her..that she was the ' best make' of Dutch wife;" his house the "best planned;" his neighborhood in the "healthiest and most attractive part in Groningen." He is Simenon's psychologically marginal archetype - "a middle-aged man, after years of conformity to the standards of society, who flees his milieu." *Popinga's habit of watching night trains affords him a glimpse of another life, of adventures which he often only dream about - a yearning for escape.
E infatti ha una posizione rispettabile, possiede una villa nel quartiere più ricco, una stufa unica, una radio costosissima, di cui va fiero.Vive la sua normalità pensando che tutto ciò sia il massimo che la vita può concedergli, ma improvvisamente… abbandona per sempre quell’immagine di onesto, corretto, scrupoloso impiegato e buon padre di famiglia.
Entra talmente nel suo nuovo personaggio da trovare sempre nuove autogiustificazioni per il suo operato criminale.Popinga è però un fallito e chiude la sua vita in una clinica psichiatrica dove, rassicurato dalle mura che impediscono un confronto con la realtà esterna, riesce a realizzare un mondo tutto suo.Il romanzo è un viaggio nei meccanismi della mente e dell’animo del protagonista.
The envelope might additionally contain street maps of the novel's setting, although it would never say a word about the book's eventual plot.
It should be noted that he wrote books this way even when he was ostensibly on vacation."(from the introduction by Luc Sante)This is the first Simenon novel I've read (I think I've read five or six) where I didn't sympathize with the protagonist.
Luc Sante writes that you close the book "and you realize that all along that you've been reading a comedy." I agree (though I think the comic aspect makes itself apparent sooner).
Trrasformandosi pagina dopo pagina in un folle (o forse semplicemente cedendo a quella pazzia che da sempre si portava dentro, celata dietro una maschera di normalità), Popinga studia ogni mossa, come se stesse giocando una partita a scacchi col destino.
Il pensiero torna sempre a lui, a Popinga e a quella rivelazione scritta di suo pugno nero su bianco, che è forse da leggersi come il movente di quanto accaduto: "Per quarant'anni mi sono annoiato.
Per quarant'anni ho guardato la vita come quel poverello che col naso appiccicato alla vetrina di una pasticceria guarda gli altri mangiare i dolci.
Lesa maestàDevo fare una confessione: non ho mai letto niente di Simenon.Complice un ricovero ospedaliero, qualche anno fa, decisi di portare quest'agile volumetto con me.All'inizio mi piaceva anche, ma con le dimissioni dall'ospedale, dal quale ogni volta la protagonista tragica che è in me crede sempre che non riuscirà ad uscire viva, mi scordai di proseguire nella lettura.O meglio, abbandonai, senza grandi rimpianti, Popinga in un garage francese nel quale si era andato a nascondere.Probabilmente cercherò di rileggerlo.O forse andrò oltre e Simenon mi conquisterà con qualcos'altro* :-)[*] Cosa che poi ha fatto, naturalmente.
Secondo romanzo che leggo di Simenon, lo considero uno scalino più in basso di Luci nella notte che, non ho ancora capito il perché, lo reputo quasi perfetto.Kees Popinga è un uomo qualunque che lavora come impiegato presso una ditta di forniture navali.
Kees Popinga è uno di quei personaggi della letteratura che rimangono impressi nella mente del lettore per sempre.
La sua parabola da uomo normale, con una bella famiglia e un buon lavoro, a assassino e fuggitivo, freddo e calcolatore, è quanto di più realistico seppur paradossale si possa leggere.
SIAMO IO E SIMO GLI UNICI SCEMI?Aggiornamento dopo il favoloso messaggio di Simo (copiato alla fine della recensione) che ha risposto ai miei dubbi.-----------------------------------------------SONO IO L'UNICO SCEMO?Sono io l'unico scemo che non lo sapeva?Sono solo io che ho passato anni al liceo senza imparare niente?A scuola non mi sembra di aver studiato Simenon tra gli importanti scrittori del novecento dalle forti tematiche psicologiche.Nella mia testa ho sempre associato il nome di Simenon al genere giallo ed alla figura di Maigret.
Secondo me è stata una puntata della serie tv di Montalbano "L'uomo che andava appresso ai funerali" (titolo perfetto per un giallo) a spingermi verso questo libro.
Popinga, ou a verdade que não existe?"O Homem que Via Passar os Comboios", de Georges Simenon, é o homem moderno – 1938 – não refém dos seus fantasmas e na plenitude do seu inconsciente.Kees Popinga, protagonista, vive, página após página, libertado das amarras que o prendem à realidade dos dias, entregue aos seus pensamentos.
A deterioração psíquica inconsciente de Popinga, amarrada aos seus medos, e a necessidade de se sentir compreendido, confluem numa linguagem simples, mas extremamente cuidada, própria de um autor que atingiu, com a obra, o patamar de clássico.”Podia permitir-se a tudo!
Another classic 'human' study by Simenon.
A person who wants to forget their current life and become another identity or break out of their 'mode' of living.
And yeah bad things happen.
But what's more important bad things are happening in your old life.
The strict order of doing things, working at the same company year after year - well, you are going to break down!For instance, me trying to write five book reviews a day for Goodreads - I am going to crack you know!
From 'watching the train to actually 'get' on the train can change things radically.
Sobre a devastação de uma existência*
simenon'u, onun insan psikolojisini derinlikli anlatımını zaten çok severim ama bu kitabı çeviren ya da yeniden yazan sait faik olunca, hakkaten tadından yenmedi :)sait faik çevireyim diye oturduğu kitapla uğraşırken bir bakmış sayfalar dolusu yazmış kendiliğinden, bazen da atlaya atlaya gitmiş, bunları kitabın önsözünde özdemir asaf tanıklığıyla okuyoruz.
o nedenle hem simenon psikolojisi hem sait faik dili derken muhteşem bir okuma oldu benim için.
sait faik'in dili zaten bilinir de kurgusu konusu farklı bir olayda o da öykülerinden daha farklı bir anlatım kurmuş.
türkçe kesinlikle gitgide kan kaybediyor, okuyunca bunu bir kez daha anladım.
Vivere ogni giorno come la copia del giorno precedente, senza mai concedersi uno sgarro, per garantire un ordine giusto nel suo universo, quello familiare, e quello cittadino; nella città di Groninga in Olanda, dove tutti si conoscevano e dove tutti venivano a sapere l'indomani qualsiasi cosa non andava.
Viveva la sua normalità pensando che quello era il massimo che la vita potesse concedergli, ma poi...…in una passeggiata notturna, come fosse quasi un miraggio, dentro ad una birreria, nota il suo capo bere, ubriacarsi.
La sua vita non era come la voleva lui, gli mancava quella libertà di scelta.
Sia del genere di quelli che hanno “passato il Rubicone” e il treno l’hanno preso, sia del genere di quelli che sono rimasti, rimpiangendo ogni giorno di non averlo fatto.Gran brutta razza di gente quella dei “Popinga”, superbamente descritta da Simenon.
A differenza di quella cui appartiene il signor Monde, che pure, a un certo punto, sente la necessità di “staccare la spina” e allontanarsi da un mondo che percepisce come falso e artificioso, i tanti “Popinga” non ammetteranno mai l’errore compiuto, bensì si arrampicheranno sugli specchi pur di sostenere di aver ragione.
dice Popinga a uno dei medici come frase di chiusura del romanzo.
My first Simenon but not, barring unforeseen horrific circumstances, my last.Here's my problem: as it's a well-known fact that Georges Simenon wrote in excess of 7.6 trillion books during his lifetime, I'm a bit overwhelmed trying to figure out which ones to read. I mean, it's impossible that they're all equally good, right? And since I could read a Simenon book every day for the rest of my life and still barely make a small dent his oeuvre, I'd love to have some guidance on which to try out first and which to avoid.... suggestions?
There, he learns that not only is the owner a man who is devious and deceitful, but that Kees himself has been such a poor, witless manager that he has drained the company of all value.
He turns in the gang that originally helped him escape out of Paris because of pettiness and jealousy.He is described in print as a paranoid, but does not know what the word means, nor does he attempt to find out.For the superior man that he asserts himself to be, he is hopelessly naïve.
Simenon was one of a long tradition of Francograph writers who churn out good books with relative ease - Balzac, Zola, Dumas(but he cheated and used ghostwriters).
Simenon was used to the speed of some 10-40 per year!
Makes Vollmann look like a obsessive haiku poet who only releases one volume every 20 years by comparison (No offense, Bill).This book follows a perfectly respectable man from a perfectly respectable background who throttles people and goes on the run, and his misadventures.
A murder mystery from the criminal's side.
It's fascinating to see the guy crack.

I didn't see the point of this.
The style is dry, sterile, the type of writing that fetishises objects in an attempt to create 'realism'.
Nor do any of the characters really seem to interact.
And despite the protagonist's moving restlessly across the map it all seemed somehow intrinsically static, as if what movement there was were just currents on the surface and the depths remained still.
Well-executed, yes, as far as it went, but to me that didn't seem very far.
Anyone who thinks this 'outdoes' Camus either hasn't read The Plague or reads for very different reasons to me.
I honestly can't think of anything more entertaining than an ineffectual Dutchman's mental breakdown in 1930's Paris. Simenon always avoids cliche and this felt as much a critique of bourgeois domesticity as a really funny and dark tale of a guy with several issues having an extreme mid-life crisis and being an amateur psycho while feeling really self-important. Plus, if like me you're just happy reading about cafés and bars, cheap hotel rooms and Paris in the rain, this will make you very happy indeed.
