https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/415909.No_Greater_Love
Oddly enough, I actually felt like reading Danielle Steel last night!
Although I own at least ten of her books, she is not an author I read often, and in this case, actually reread.
But still, I read it in one sitting, so it's all good.Firstly, the Titanic disaster has always been something I read about with deep sadness, and this book is no exception.
It is a really great story, of romance and loss and especially of sacrifice.Years ago, when I was 11, I first picked up a Danielle Steel novel.
It just proves that these books have broad appeal, and now years later I can still read them
Once upon a time many years ago a teenaged me loved this book.
That girl also didn't know how many other well written fiction books were written about Titanic.
The history was not only off, but she basically made it seem that real passenger Bess Allison knowingly saw her infant son into a lifeboat with a nanny while she and two year old daughter Lorraine decided to die together with her husband.
That alone ticked me off rather irrationally I know and I was so angry I couldn't even finish the book again.
Being inspired by the tragedy of Titanic, Danielle Steel weaves a story about a family who survived the tragedy.
Having lost both parents and finance, Edwina struggles to bring up her siblings and run the family business.
In Edwina, Ms. Steel has created a strong, courageous woman whom readers can take instantly to their hearts.
I believe every reader of this story felt admiration towards this character, for I certainly did.
But in this case, I was happy that Ms. Steel didn't neglect Edwina at the end and allowed her to have a happy ending which she thoroughly deserved.
I cried through this entire book but it was really good!
What a soulful book this is! I loved each and every part of this tantalizing tale. I have never read any character as charming as Edwina. This is one such book that can move you to tears. The kind where you get emotionally connected to the story. Danielle Steel's magical words will stay in my heart forever. Looking forward to read more of her works.
No greater bookI have read many books by Danielle Steel but none have ever moved me the way this has.
The tragedy unfolds as Titanic sinks and the family loose both parents and the daughter her fiance in the sinking.
This book brings tears to your eyes as you read it tears for all the lives that were lost and tears for Edwina and her family as they struggle to cope with the loss of their parents in very different ways.
I liked it a lot because of the subject material, because it falls into my favorite genre (historical fiction), but mostly because it was a really good story.
Her whole life is devoted to her brothers and sisters and she loves them absolutely.
As they begin to grow older and move away, she learns how to live and love again.
We’ll seem very small to you, and very provincial.” – Edwina to Phillip“Thoughts of the Titanic kept drifting into her head… the night of the ship going down… the screech of the lifeboats being lowered… the wails of the people in the water as they drowned.
If you enjoy fiction reads based around The Titanic, then you NEED to read this book. So heartbreaking and emotional, looking at that fatal night and beyond and how survivors had to learn to cope. A must read!
This was a very good story. It pulled my heartstrings with all the tragedies that happened but still love will prevail.
un livre "waste of time" oui c'est ça un livre classique mais c'est pas le genre de livre classique qui vous attire a le terminer malheureusement il etait ma premiere lecture de danielle steel
No entanto, o naufrágio do maior navio de passageiros do mundo viria mudar completamente a vida da jovem Edwina: os pais e o seu amado noivo sucumbiriam ao naufrágio deixando a Edwina a educação dos seus cinco irmãos.E de facto, com tal desgosto, Edwina decide abdicar da sua vida pessoal e afectiva para se dedicar por inteiro à educação dos seus irmãos, alguns deles ainda bastante pequeninos.
No entanto, guarda sempre o rancor por a sua própria mãe ter preferido morrer juntamente com o seu pai, recusando entrar num bote que lhe poderia ter salvado a vida, a pensar no futuro dos seus filhos, depositando, assim, tamanha responsabilidade numa jovem.
This book was so great!!! The beginning was so heartbreaking, but I loved it!
However, it's a lovely exploration of familial bonds and surviving that traumatic night.Everything about it screams of the cheesy, almost airport paperback, novels your mum or great aunt secretly read but I found it increasingly difficult to put down, helped by the fact it's exceptionally easy to read [anyone looking at my reading graph/progress, the lull was due to me - you can imagine it was difficult in places to read about dead parents following your own grief].However, towards the end the book seemed to deflate.
A Edwina (irmã que emerge da desgraça com a responsabilidade de cuidar dos irmãos órfãos) fez-me chamar-lhe estúpida em vez de bondosa.
Aborrece-me seriamen - ora vejam: têm sempre infâncias infelizes, pais ausentes - ou muito bonzinhos, que morrem - e são sempre esbofeteados cinquenta vezes pela vida antes de aprenderem a aguentarem-se de pé.
São também contemplados com todo o tipo de elogios por toda a gente, sendo os únicos que têm má ideia de si próprios.
Parece-me uma pretensão desnecessária que desfeia um pouco o romance.
Between 2.5 and 3 stars.
I would've loved this book in middle school!
I liked the Titanic aspect and it surprised me that this was written before the movie came out.
The elements of the boarding, first class life, and the sinking were exactly like the movie.
I didn't like the flow of them book and it would definitely have been edited way down had it been written in current time.
There were no real paragraphs or start/stop to people's thoughts.
The titanic part is over relatively quickly and then it followed the survivors through their lives in show business and learning to love again.
it is a good book.talks about 6kids that lost parents on a titanic.and the elder daughter lost a fia
if titanic got you bawling at the top of your lungs, this will make you want to scream all the more.
packed with a very well-written plot centering on the effect on an innocent family due to the very tragic TITANIC accident decades ago, this book will make you rethink of your own actions.
you'll fall in love with edwina..
you gotta love her spirit and her zest for bringing up her younger brothers and sisters while leaving her own life to wait for an absolution for years...
yes, it's an emotional read and an absolute tear jeaker.
Le subí el puntaje de 2 a 3 estrellas....aunque lo justo serían 2.5...definitivamente es un gusto culposo. Lo escogí porque el tema Titanic me obsesiona...aunque es muy poco lo que habla del naufragio y creo que podría haber sido más emotivo, me picó porque no podía dejar de leerlo.Los personajes son o muy buenos o muy malos, y muchas situaciones son predecibles y muy "rosas" porque todo les sale bien...a pesar de eso, me gustó...no es un Nobel, es una lectura fácil y entretenida, melodramática....
A story about the 'perfect' family and what happens to them after the sinking of the Titanic. Rather predictable and very simplistically written, which makes for a very fast and easy read. You feel bad for the family and all that the children endure during the sinking. But as their lives move on the story just gets a little grating on how the eldest daughter struggles to keep the family together. It is a nice story of overcoming fears and prejudices.
if u love the TITANIC, then read it. It is all about a girl who had to carry out the responsibility of her parent, who drown in The Titanic. Not only her parent but also her fiance, she carried his death in her mind till she met a cousin of his, who later 'set her free'.  It's a novel full of suspence, love, emotoins, death, mischieves ... Cant say enough, just get urs and u will never regret it. But get ready for tears.
Penso que este terá sido o primeiro livro de Danielle Steel que li, e ainda hoje adoro os livros dela. Uns melhores do que outros, mas nunca dou por perdido o tempo que passo a ler aos seus romances.Esta estória tem como plano de fundo o naufrágio do Titanic e apesar de dramatica, fala ainda de segundas oportunidades e de esperança.
I am not a huge Danielle Steel fan, but I have to list this as one of my favorite books of all time. It was the first book I read for just pure pleasure. I read this book the summer before I was a sophomore in college and it still remains one of my favorites. I loved the richness of the characters and the passage of time in the book through the Titanic, World War 1, etc.
Carte mai siropoasă ca asta nu am citit :D e atâta tragedie în ea, aşa banal prezentată, încât, nesimţita de mine, am râs în hohote la situaţiile povestite. Prea e încurcat totul, am o impresie că însăşi scriitoarea îşi schimba ideile la fiecare câteva pagini. O telenovelă scrisă, cu femei hipersensibile şi bărbaţi supereroi. :D
Hell yes I'm giving a Danielle Steel novel 5 stars. This is at least the 10th time I've read this since first picking it up during the Titanic-craze of 1996. It's got all the Steel hallmarks, done at their best. I read probably 20 of her others books throughout high school and this reminded me of just how fun and light they are. Might be re-reading more in the future. And I'm not ashamed.
Lovely and believable story...also about the courage of human endurance through everything:family growth,terrible heart-wrenching tragedy,mystery,then healing...well written and highly recommend to everyone (paperback!)
Táto kniha bola vážne dobrá.Aj keď som zo začiatku mala v tom zmätok,ale keď som sa začítala,tak sa stránky obrácali veľmi rýchlo.Príbeh o Titanicu bol skvelý a ta bolesť a strata v tom príbehu tam bola citíť.7/10.
great read.........loved it. Daniell Steel is one of my favorite Authors. When she writes, it is like being right there through the whole story.
I cried all the way through, it is a good book
TEAR-JERKER!!! What a great book!!! It made me cry, but was a great story about love, family and selflessness.
Read this 20 years ago but wanted it on my Read list as it's one of my all time favourites, definitely my favourite Danielle Steel novel.
