https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4325.Dreamland
While reading this I literally cringed and would slap the book shut, but a couple seconds later I would open it again to see what happens to a girl named Caitlin.
She never feels like she measures up to her sister Cass, and in turn that leads her to trouble.
Dessen does a good job of showing the negative effects of drugs without being preachy, or on the other hand being mistaken as a "stoner" book.
If you liked this one read Breathing Underwater, which shows this situation from the other side.
I would argue that novels that have a strong sense of resolution, something more than the sum of its tied-up-loose-ends, make a more enduring impact on us than their counterparts.The resolution of Dreamland takes up 32 pages of a 250 page novel, which I suspect some readers will find a little long.But it's good.Caitlin O'Karen's older sister, Cass, runs away from to be with her boyfriend, even though she has been accepted to Yale and has parents that can afford to send her there.
Dreamland was my first Sarah Dessen book, and for some reason I'd always thought she wrote light-hearted, fun, romantic contemporaries meant for a warm, breezy summer day.
When I turned the last page, I sat on my bed for a moment, dazed.This gritty, emotional tale follows Caitlin, an eternally-second-best, straight-B girl living in the shadow of her absolutely perfect older sister, Cass.
Nobody around her saw what was really happening to her, and Caitlin retreated further and further from reality, choosing instead to float through life in a kind of dream.
And so I understood Caitlin, how she struggled with herself for so long.
Dreamland is about a girl named Caitlin.
She joins the cheerleading squad and starts to date a jock-the whole prep girl routine.
But that abruptly ends when she meets a bad-boy named Rogerson.This book was amazingly written-just like Sarah Dessen's other book (that I've read) This Lullaby.But it's so different.
Dreamland is an intense, quick read.
It's one of those books that you just have to read.
But it's written so convingly.I've decided that I want to read all of Sarah Dessen's books.Oh, and just a warning: medium language and some really intense scenes.
Caitlyn also struggles in her social circles at school, joining the cheerleading team (which she's reluctant to do, but finds herself in the mix of things anyway) and becoming a fixation of her mother's in the absence of Cass.
The inclusion of the dream journal and how she enters this state of suspension/non-reality/fear was also well described.But I longed for a little more backstory on Rogerson (whose family and issues kinda got dropped by the wayside after a time, despite his cycle of abuse against Caitlyn.
TW: physical and emotional abuse.
Definitely feel like my heart was ripped out of my chest.
Definitely was not prepared?!
I knew it was going to be darker, but WOWZA.
Very well written and so heartbreaking.
I don't know how else to review it or to add on to that.
Brace yourself, and don't be afraid to give yourself a break and eat some pizza and watch something funny/uplifting while you're reading this one.
Definitely.
I'm glad that there are authors out there who aren't afraid to touch on the really dark stuff.
In away, it's like them saying, "You are not alone.
“See you in dreamland”  Your might find it really hard to believe that I just rated a Sarah Dessen book 2 out of 5 stars. But I didn't really enjoy this book, it was something that I wasn't expecting. I thought this was a book that was fluffy and filled with happiness.  BUT It isn't fluffy and it isn't filled with happiness. It made me feel uncomfortable and it made me feel so depressed. I mean, it was a good book, but this book wasn't meant for me. It dealt with violence and abuse and I had a
I'll explain why in this review and if you aren't comfortable with violence or abuse, I recommend that you do not read this book.
When Cass used to live with Caitlin, she felt like she had to follow everything that her sister had done.
I wasn't a huge fan of Caitlin and I hated all the choices she made in this book.
I felt like I was apart of the book and I was Caitlin.
If you haven't read Sarah Dessen's books and you like dark contemporary novels, I recommend this one.
Until one day, when Caitlin fails to meet him at an agreed upon time, he hits her.
The abuse was bad, but it was like I was in the same drifty dreamworld that Caitlin was in...and I felt her fear and trepidation, but I also felt her strength and the conflict within her.
But it struck a chord with me, because Caitlin loved Rogerson, and saw something behind his hurting her...which is what made it so difficult for her to leave him.
Thank you Sarah Dessen for not being heavy-handed, and for telling this kind of a story in a new and meaningful way.
It’s really hard to say what I might do, and if I tried to pin it down, my response would be filled with conjecture, and I prefer to deal in facts.The fact is I hated this novel.
Hated it with a passion, because it discussed abuse, and I prefer to look at the world through rose-colored glasses and deal in unicorns and rainbows and Popsicle sticks and ice cream sandwiches.
I certainly don’t have a negative view of the world.So, yeah, it was hard for me to understand someone that might.
*This review (and more) can also be found on my blog: The Humble Watermelon*What makes Sarah Dessen's books so special is the fact that you feel like you can actually relate to the characters.
Yet every time I came back to read this book, I didn't feel very distant from it or confused, because the plot just sucked me right in, like the last time I read the book was not a week ago, but a day ago.The thing about Sarah Dessen is that she gives you a lot of time to know the characters more, and then after a couple of hundred pages or so she actually gets into the plot.
This was probably the worst Sarah Dessen book I've ever read.
I expect not to like the protagonist of a Dessen novel but I really hated Caitlin.
And I was just wondering again and again what Caitlin saw in Rogerson.
I didn't like her friend either, Rina.
I usually like the best friends in Dessen novels.
And I usually like the Dessen boys but this one I despised.
He had a cameo in Lock and Key btw as Marshall's best friend.Like I said this was a boring book.
The worst Dessen book ever.
Caitlin is use to living in her older sisters shadow, but her family is stunned to find that her sister has run off with her boyfriend.
Caitlin's parents are obsessing over her missing sister, and she feels like nobody cares she's alive.
Caitlin falls into a downward spiral, starts smoking, doing pot, and slacking in school/cheerleading.
She stays with him, typical abused g/f who thinks he's gonna change/loves her, blah blah blah.
I liked the story but was annoyed with her for staying with him even though she feared him and was always getting beat up.
3.5 actual rating
I'm on my post-final YA fiction binge and working my way through the roommate's Sarah Dessen books.
This one was, in my opinion, sadly lacking.
Dessen gets into the head of an abused girlfriend very well, and the slow slide into an abusive relationship is believable.
However, we never find out why her boyfriend was abusing her, leaving him to be a one-dimensional 'bad boy' and the circumstances around their relationship remained shallow.
I don't have much patience for people who are too weak to stand up for themselves, unfortunately, so this was another reason why this book bothered me.
You are going to just be shocked and dismayed at the things that are going on with the main character (Caitlin) throughout this book."Dreamland" opens on Caitlin's birthday when she and her parents realize that her older sister Cassandra has ran away to be with a guy she fell in love with after like three weeks.
And with her parents still focused on other matters, it becomes easy for her to fool them into thinking everything is okay with her.Dessen always has recurring characters in her YA books and I swear that Rogerson was in Lock and Key (which I also loved).
The reader can feel Caitlin's lack of direction and disconnection from the world.In her continuing search to be her own person and do things Cass never did, Caitlin begins dating a bad boy.
Now, you know all those popular books these days about heroines dating bad boys with hearts of gold, who make their girlfriends into better people?
Rather than helping her become her own person, Rogerson lets her live for him instead; Caitlin remains a shell of a person.Much as I love Dessen's writing, I do not feel this is one of her best novels.
Time and time again Dessen's stories don't stand on their own but instead as lessons to young girls to be good, that "bad boys" lead to trouble, that drinking leads to bad decision-making, that sex is not without its punishments, that generally boys know best.I like Dessen's prose a lot, which is why I keep reading her.
And this book would have had me more without this one measly section about IF ONLY the protagonist had gone out with the jock and not the "bad boy".
Why on earth does it have to be such an either/or situation with a boy headlining each option?I'll keep reading her because I like her stories, but I am not wild about what young girls will pick up from her lessons.
This is probably one of the more memorable Sarah Dessen books. It's definitely the one that's the most different, and it touches upon the issue of emotional abuse and violence in a way that is realistic, yet heartbreaking.It was definitely sometimes frustrating, especially if you don't agree with the main character's actions, but overall, it was a good read.
This book, with the subject of physical abuse between two teenagers, is a hard one too read.
Not because the author can’t write a good story (she clearly can) but because this subject is a hard one to read about and consider.
What was once a life filled with confusion on how to grow up into the person she wanted to be turns into a painful game of just trying to keep the anger of Rogerson so he won’t hurt her.Readers beware, this is not a lovey dovey book with sunshine and roses that will make teenage love seem magical.
Hadn't read this before.#readaDessen
And now I totes do!I didn't really know much about the novel before reading it...besides for it involving dating abuse.
Cass had been a bit of an overachiever, overshadowing Caitlin without ever meaning to, even though both sister's were best friends.
And the dark stuff was handled brilliantly, too--it had me rooting for Caitlin, understanding why she kept up with Rogerson's abuse, while at the same time crying along with her when things got really rough.Basically, I understand now why Sarah Dessen's so awesome--her stories have a way of falling together near the end and creating such a beautiful impact on you.
Her sister has just ran away from home, and her boyfriend Rogerson has taken a liking to beating her.
Why are Sarah Dessen's characters SO STUPID?
Caitlin stays with her abusive boyfriend because it "feels right".
Caitlin starts smoking and doing drugs because it "feels right".
Caitlin breaks her committment to the cheerleading team because it "feels right".
Do you think that your parents are going to notice something you're hiding when they have their other things to think about, like maybe trying to find your sister who ran away from home?
I have no tolerance for stupid people.
And this was a perfect reminder why calling Sarah Dessen a romance author pisses me off. This is NOT a romance by any stretch of that word. What an intense, disturbing, painful look at dating abuse. This is a story about feeling powerless and weak, about how you function and operate when staying in the abusive relationship seems safer than getting out. Wow. Wow. Wow. This is a gut punch.
In her efforts to be less like her "perfect" sister, she joined the cheerleading squad, started smoking pot, and willingly complied to an abusive boyfriend because he made her feel "special."It is said throughout the narration that Caitlin would not leave Rogerson because she liked the person that he moulded her into.
He's just a selfish, abusive prick, there's nothing more to this character.Why this book makes me rethink my opinion:We see Caitlin throw a little pity party for herself and get sucked down into a whirlpool of bad decisions, but we never see a psychological impact with fully formed reasoning.
The author does a good job of pulling the reader into Caitlin's plight; I cared what happened next.That said, I had trouble with the way the abusive relationship was portrayed.
And in this book, while I could see why Caitlin was attracted to Rogerson in the first place, I couldn't get why she'd stay with him because he did none of that manipulation.
Of course it's easy to say "why stay" about any abusive relationship when you've not been in one, but usually it's pretty clear why (whether financial reasons, state of mind, the manipulation).
In this book, once Rogerson started hitting her, he was a jerk the rest of the time.
This is the first Dessen book that actually really enjoyed.
I have read Just Listen and Lock and Key and while I liked them I thought the plot tended to drag a lot.
While with Dreamland I found it interesting and entertaining from start to finish.There is no doubt that Dessen has beautiful prose.
Some times a little too wordy for my liking but definitely thoughtful and gorgeous writing.
So I liked that you could clearly see what Caitlyn was attracted to Rogerson in the first place.Overall, this book has definitely encouraged me to read more of Dessen's work.
Just a really good read.
This is probably my favorite Sarah Dessen book!
Dreamland was an okay kind of book.
Caitlin feels like she needs to step in for her family but it actually kind of back-spirals in a way?
She's also wondering if she's going to continue falling.I feel like I would've liked this book a lot more if I could've connected with the characters.
I also didn't like how one sister was the golden child and the other was a limp noodle.
In my opinion, I feel like every child should be loved by their parents.
Overall, it was an okay book.
I feel like I was just expecting more with all of the great reviews and recommendations.
It starts out that on her birthday her older, more perfect sister Cassandra runs away to live with her boyfriend.
She quickly tries to fill the void her sister has created for her but instead falls right into it.
She starts exhibiting dangerous behavior and even gets a new, destructive boyfriend - Rogerson Biscoe.This book just tells the story that so many girls and women must face these days.
It perfectly narrates why Caitlin is suffering and can't get out, so readers that are new to this subject understand the pain she is going through.
***My 100th review, weeeeee*** I couldn't tell her. I couldn't tell anyone. As long as I didn't say it aloud, it wasn't real. For the love of a God, Sarah Dessen!What was this book? How did you ever manage to write something this raw, real and heartbreaking? How did you manage to crush me like this?I am shaking from the inside.
