https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36097619-the-tuscan-child
"Sometimes you make choices in life and sometimes choices make you." (Gayle Forman)Hugo Langley, an RAF pilot, finds himself behind the controls on a bombing mission near the northern hills above Lucca, Italy.
The Germans are a threatening force and both Englishman and Italian woman are in danger of being discovered.Rhys Bowen fast forwards this story to 1973 and swoops it down amidst the surroundings of Langley Hall Estate.
Sir Hugo Langley has passed away and his only child, Joanna, has come to claim his things.
As Joanna packs away and sorts through years of items, she comes across a letter to a mysterious Sofia from San Salvatore.
The book is told in two parts, Hugo Langley’s escape after his plane goes down over Tuscany in 1944 and his daughter Joanna’s return to their home after his death in 1973 and subsequent trip to Italy.
It took me right back to my own story, back when I was starting off in banking and told I couldn’t enter commercial lending.
Luckily, Bowen does a much better job placing you in Tuscany than in time.
But overall, the book had trouble holding my interest.
My thanks to netgalley and Lake Union Publishing for an advance copy of this book.
When Joanna Langley's father Hugh passes away in 1973 she returns home to arrange his funeral and sort out his possessions.
Among his things she finds a small box and within it a letter addressed to an Italian woman named Sofia.
The mysterious letter gives Joanna a glimpse into her father's heart, revealing to her a man very different from the one she knew.
There are secrets some will do anything to protect and when Joanna becomes a suspect in a murder investigation, who can she trust?This is such a wonderful story, with beautifully drawn characters and an amazing Italian setting.
I chose to read this because I enjoy Rhys Bowen's Her Royal Spyness series so much.
This was a very different kettle of fish being set half in World War 2 and half in 1970's England and Tuscany.
In The Tuscan Child I was much more interested in Joanna than I was in Hugo which meant I put the book down and went off to do something else much more than I normally would!Nevertheless this was still an enjoyable if predictable story.
Tuscany sounded absolutely delightful and there was a lot of interesting information about food!
Worth a read.
*3.5 stars rounded up.In December, 1944, Hugo Langley is a young British pilot who is forced to parachute from his burning plane over Italy.
Nearly thirty years later, his daughter Joanna is sorting through his papers after his death when she discovers an old sealed letter addressed to an Italian woman named Sofia.
He is hidden where only you can find him." Joanna is stunned--did her father have a child with an Italian woman during the war?
No one there remembers a wounded British pilot during the war but soon a man is found murdered and Joanna becomes the chief suspect.
Historical novels usually have to be very good in order to capture and hold my attention, and this one fit the bill.
I especially enjoyed the descriptions of the Tuscan landscape and the delicious food – it made me long to visit Italy.Fans of historical fiction will appreciate this novel for its skilled placement in two distinctly different eras of history.
Lovers of romantic fiction will also appreciate the tender love stories that develop as well.**Many thanks to NetGalley, Lake Union Publishing, and the author for the opportunity for me to read and review this book.
When Joanna Langley is cleaning out the house of her father after his unexpected death in the English countryside, she comes acrosss a sealed letter.
In her attempt to find the truth about her father, she will embark on a personal journey of her own.I love the premise of this novel.
With a dual narration, that of Joanna and her father Hugo, this novel takes place in 1973 and 1944 respectively.
Once in the village, she meets an array of characters, from the kind woman who rents her a room to the man that seems to control the whole village with his money.
In the end, this book was nice but not outstanding.
One part is set in Tuscany during World War 11 time, where Hugo - an English pilot is forced to eject from his damaged plane.
While Joanna finds the son of Sofia still alive - Renzo, it takes awhile for him to warm to her, however soon they are working together to find the answers Joanna is seeking about her father and his cryptic note he tried to send Sofia.I enjoyed the Tuscany setting and the description of the food and people.
Sofia was a warm, courageous young woman, Hugo a man changed by her, Joanna a daughter kept somewhat at arm's length but still with a connection to her father, that makes her determined to find out what went on here in San Salvatore during the war.
I am a big fan of Rhys Bowen for the Royal Spyness series.
It seemed like the book dragged on for a long time -- right about until the last 2 or 3 hours, when things miraculously fell into place (without much explanation as to how such things fell into place).
There wasn't much explanation; just seemed like he fell for her after she started caring for him.
Overall, I was disappointed in this as I really love the Royal Spyness series.
I kept reading because I wanted to find out how things were resolved at the end, though I did not have strong feelings one way or another because I didn't care much for the characters.
Netgalley # 25Many thanks go to Rhys Bowen, Lake Union, and Netgalley for the free copy of this book in exchange for my unbiased review.
I tend to find the level of imagery I had with this book usually comes from the author being too detailed – yet, somehow, Rhys Bowen managed it without burying me under endless pages of description.Another thing I really enjoyed, something I also enjoyed about In Farleigh Field, was the attention given to the dynamics of the characters.
There was a lot of fun to be had with the mystery, the world came alive around us, but what I constantly found myself wanting more of was the details pertaining to the individual characters.
The setting is stunning set in a fictional town called San Salvatore in northern Italy the action pivotal between 1944 and 1973 and between a gunned down RAF pilot and his daughter.
At first I was more intrigued by the WWII story but as things progressed and the mystery heated up I enjoyed the daughter’s tale also.I can’t say the conclusion was as enticing as the rest of the book but the story zips along so pleasantly that hardly matters.
Bowen touches on not only WWII but also art and artists, Nazis, Italy, and cooking that you can almost taste through the pages.
Joanna is studying to become a lawyer, and all that is left to do is to take her bar exam, but she has been out of work for a while because of an accident and a boyfriend, when her father, Sir Hugo Langley dies.
He has always been a distant father, and Joanna doesn't know much about his life at all.
The story shifts from her father during WWII as a downed fighter pilot, and Joanna, 30 years later, so through the course of the book, it comes full circle.
I loved the the novel was set some place other than England or France and I think that the freshness of the location added a lot to the narrative.
The romance, setting and intertwining past/present stories made the book so moody and a pleasure to read and it hit me in the all the feels.While this book had a lot of romance and romantic elements, I thought it had more than just love and a boy meets girl plot.
Joanna is sorting through her estranged late father’s possessions when she comes across a mysterious letter addressed to a woman named Sofia in San Salvatore, Italy.
The letter gives Joanna a glimpse to a side of her father she’s never known so she decides to take a trip to Italy to understand her father better by revisiting his past and possibly finding Sofia.The novel is a perfect blend of historical fiction, mystery, and romance.
One of my favorite aspects of reading historical fiction are the vivid descriptions of beautiful settings and this did not disappoint.
I finished reading the ARC of The Tuscan Child by Rhys Bowen on Thursday night, but I am still in heavy book hangover.
This book is one of those rare books that not only sticks with you but that you feel like you lived through.
I am not usually a fan of historically based cozies, mysteries or stories, at least that was until I discovered everything Rhys Bowen has written.
The setting is unmistakably beautiful even though it doesn't exist you feel like it does.
The Tuscan Child will be released February 20th.
This is a binge read.
I love the Lady Georgie books and the last stand alone by Rhys Bowen, In Fairleigh Field. The Tuscan Child was too slow for me, and I just could not get into the story line.
The book has some interesting parts and some parts where story or dialogue doesn’t move the story forward. It’s stagnant and not interesting. I had to start skipping the stagnant parts in order to continue with the story. But after a few chapters of such reading, I didn’t see a point of continuing to read it.

I knew that Rhys had spent lots of time in Tuscany recently, and I was quite envious, but her meticulous research benefits us all in this new novel, as the fictional village town of San Salvatore comes gloriously alive to our senses while reading this gripping tale.
It is a love letter written after her father returned home to England, and in it Hugo mentions his and Sofia's "beautiful boy." Joanna is thunderstruck at this revelation that her cold, distant father had been in love with an Italian woman in the village where his plane had been shot down during the war, and that here might have been a child from the affair is astonishing.
I REALLY wanted to like this book, and I expected I would because I am such a fan of Rhys Bowen, but sadly this was a total flop for me!It was eye-rollingly cliched, too easy, oversimplified, the ending was too quick and all things were resolved in a snap.
I realize the point was to paint the scene and make us feel what a Quaint Tuscan Village must be like… but it didn’t, it was just awkward.I never felt any emotion for the characters, and therefore could not suspend my disbelieve and just go with it.
The only character I did like a little was Hugo but not enough to save the book.
This is an excellent, standalone story by the wonderful writer Rhys Bowen. The story is set both in WWII Italy and the 1970s. Bowen is superb at period stories, and in this book, she brings to life the story of a downed British pilot hiding away in the hills above a small Italian village. The more contemporary story follows the daughter of that pilot who is picking up the pieces of her life after her father dies. This is a moody and romantic, and yet realistic, story that is a true pleasure to read.
A sweet cozy mystery Immensely enjoyed this cozy mystery with elements of World War II history, exceptional food, Tuscany, England, and timeless romance involved.
Thanks to Little Bird Publicity for sending me an advance copy.Review: When I receive a review copy of a book from a publisher, author, or publicity company, whether it's an advance copy or finished copy(early or released) it usually takes me a week or two to finish what I'm reading and get around to starting it.
I must note though that this story's main focus is the present timeline POV- Joanna Langley and not the WWII timeline POV-, her father, Hugo Langley.
I would have enjoyed reading the WWII-era POV in more detail or even as the main focus of the story.
I adored the parts about the land, culture, food and wine, but felt at times like I was reading a travel piece or a cookbook written for the Tuscany region of Italy instead of a fiction novel.
The story progressed nicely and I LOVED the dual timelines.
Hmmm...Overall, the story was intriguing, lush with description, full of local color, and Ms. Bowen's deft use of dual timelines was very well done.
Though I found some things a little off-putting, I would recommend the book for a quick escape into English and Tuscan landscapes, small town culture, people, and food.
I liked the historical setting of 1944 and the descriptions of Tuscany and Italian food are beautiful.
Although I love Italian food I did begin to groan when yet another meal was being prepared and described in detail.But the split narrative between Hugo and Joanna didn’t work too well for me.
I liked Hugo’s story more than Joanna’s and I wanted to know what happened to him which kept me reading.
And I thought the mystery element wasn’t too difficult to work out with rather too many convenient events that revealed what had happened to Hugo.My thanks to Lake Union for a review copy via NetGalley.
Joanna had become estranged from her cold, seemingly unfeeling father and was surprised when she came across an unopened letter written by her father amongst his things.
The letter was addressed Sofia Bartoli in Italy and it was written shortly after the conclusion of WWII.
Joanna decides to try to find out the truth behind the mystery presented in her father’s letter.
But this was an engaging book that kept me turning the pages to see what the next development would be.I’m giving this book 4 stars.
It also had many other layers including a mystery and a bit of suspense that kept the pages turning.
But that was a minor sticking point in what was otherwise a very enjoyable book.This is not a historical fiction book that will necessarily drive you to learn more about what really happened in this time and place, but it is a good, fast, clean read with minimal foul language, sex, or violence.
It references “our beautiful boy.” Joanna knows her father was shot down in the Tuscany region during World War II, but does this letter mean she has a half-brother?
Intrigued, Joanna sets out to learn about that time in her father’s life.
What will she learn?This book switches back and forth from Hugo’s story in 1944 and Joanna’s journey in 1973.
While this is not a traditional mystery by any means, we do learn what happened back then and how it plays out in the more “modern” setting.
Past actions coloring today's possibilities.Fascinating story that has a young English woman tracing the mystery of her father's plight in the Tuscan countryside after his plane was shot down during World War 11.Finding hints about a possible sibling when packing up her dead father's belongings, Joanna Langley travels to the village of San Salvatore in Tuscany in the hopes of learning more.What she finds are old secrets and mysteries, and a glimpse into the heart of a father she barely knew.
The story of Hugo Langley's time in Tuscany is told through Joanna's father's voice.
