https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/183683.The_Secret_Teachings_of_All_Ages
Manly wrote this book in his early twenties.
He's obviously well read and very intelligent but this book is written with a pretty significant bias toward his own obvious Masonic leanings, and most of the lore he has absorbed due to this association is accepted by him and presented as unsubstantiated fact.
For instance, I would personally love to believe that some inheritor of the egyption mystery schools living today knows the secret location of the original 42 manuscripts authored by the authentic historical Hermes Trismegistus written on papyrus and saved from the vandals of Alexandria, as he asserts.
It is a summation of hidden wisdom from the arcane and mystical teachings of Druidic, Mithraic, Christian, Gnostic, Odinic, Gothic, Eleusinian, Orphic, Bacchic, Dionysian, Platonic, Atlantean, Cabric, Hermetic, Zodiacal, Astrological, Chaldean, Delphic, Orphic, Dodonean, Pythagorean, Numerological, Hiramic, Paracelsian, Mosaic, Qabbalistic, Sephirothic, Rosicrucian, Alchemical, Masonic, Islamic, Native American, Mayan and Neo-Platonic traditions.
Third, I found there to be a validation of Hamlet's oft quoted observation from Act I, Scene V, "There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio, than are dreamt of in your philosophy." It is folly to lay claim to a completeness of understanding.
The full title on most editions of this book is - "The Secret Teachings of All Ages: An Encyclopedic Outline of Masonic, Hermetic, Qabbalistic and Rosicrucian Symbolical Philosophy".
To show the wide acceptance of this book as a reference work - Here is how Publisher's Weekly describes it for the masses: "In 1928, a 20-something Renaissance man named Manly Hall self-published a vast encyclopedia of the occult, believing that "modern" ideas of progress and materialism were displacing more important and ancient modes of knowledge.
Hall's text has become a classic reference, dizzying in its breadth: various chapters explore Rosicrucianism, Kabbalah, alchemy, cryptology, Tarot, pyramids, the Zodiac, Pythagorean philosophy, Masonry and gemology, among other topics.
I've actually read and re-read this book- in sum and in sections- many, many times. Totally comprehensive, interesting, with an insanely useful bibliography. Good for anyone interested in the supernatural, occult, or secret societies.
Ok this would be one of those rare occasions where I actually type a review on one of my books.
My friends have asked me this one question.Out of all my books on the occult, magick and things that are suppose to elevate the human conscience.
What book would I recomend to explain it ALL.
I would have to say this book.
No question about it.
This book was his first and finest.
He takes you step by step through the ages and explains and ties everything together.I wished I would of bought this book back when I was 14.
I'm writing a review on a book at the moment regarding freemasonry amongst other things, and this book of mine came to mind. I'm pleased to see that it is on Goodreads.If you're an individual who is interested in secret societies of all ages, well then this is an ideal reference book. It is "an encylopedic outline of Masonic, Hermetic, Qabbalistic and Rosicrucian Symbolical Philosophy" and is fascinating reading, especially the latter, with its symbolism throughout.
This book was a phenomenal adventure into the realm of humanity's symbols and myths.
Written with elegance and poise, the words played a dance in the black box of my mind.
And, I became present in the scenes and with the human personalities and divine possibilities he so endearingly paints in each cogently crafted chapter.
I highly recommend this book for curious and seasoned philosophers, seekers and mystics alike.
It is a resource of knowledge without equal; it is, in fact, the most brilliant book I've ever read.
This man is certainly the most egregiously underrated humanist of the previous century.
Read it!
I like Borges and Umberto Eco because they share my fascination with this stuff and the mindset that goes with it but they like me to recognize it as mystical mumbo-jumbo and dangerous stuff if it is taken seriously because it would be a waste of time to pursue this stuff in real life and expect to gain from it.
So I can't give it more than three stars precisely because it seems the people who gave it a five take it way too seriously.
This Book proves an interesting read it is an interpretation of secret messages the author sees as being hidden within rituals, allegories and ancient mysteries through out the ages.
Starting with ancient systems of education, Druidic,and Mithraic mysteries and teachings, you are guided through the ancient mysteries of secret societies, and of manmy countries and cultures world wide.
There is something in this book for people interested in, Astrology, Tarot, Geological findings, ancient legends, Mathematics,The begining of world religions, the symbolysim of the human body, Hermetic pharmacology, chemistry and theraputics.
I was given this book by Genesis P-Orridge in 1990, and it's a treasured possession. It introduced my young mind to exactly what it says in the title. A classic book from the 1920's that really introduced many, many paradigms to people at the time.
If a reader is dedicated to reach the end of more than 600 pages of encyclopedic writing, in more than one sense of the word, about esoteric matters, the last words of this book will haunt one's sleep: "The criers of the Mysteries speak again, bidding all men welcome to the House of Light.
For one, the author takes them quite seriously--this book is a massive discussion of matters of esoteric philosophy from the point of view of an early 20th century defender of the ancient Mystery religions [1] and their contemporary proponents--the sort of people, Masons and Rosicrucians and the like--who are generally considered to be part of the Illuminati.
I marked up this book probably more than any other in my life.
This book was my gateway to the "mystery" religions.
I don't consider it to be the authoritative "last word" but it contained so many new ideas (to me) that it became my new study agenda for quite a while.
I give this book five stars for the sheer volume of great ideas under one cover and for the introduction of the very inspiring and charismatic Manly P.
I still think that this book was is a good place to start
This is one of the books that got me into researching and studying Esoterism/Hermetics/Mystery School Traditions/Etc... I have two copies stationed at different parts of my house because at any time I can pick it up, flip to any page and start reading and gain some new knowledge that I haven't acquired yet.
This is a book that I could probably read and re-read for the rest of my life. It is very informative with a different perspective then the norm. It looks at history with a different light but it is not for everyone. It is full of variety of ancient knowledge
This review is for the 'Diamond Jubilee Edition' of "Secret Teachings of All Ages" paperback issued by the Philosophical Research Society in 1989 (1st pb edition - all b&w) and reprinted in 2000 (54 illustrations are in color - the rest in b&w).
I can not speak for the other editions, but I've seen enough complaints to want to advise buyers to seek out these authorized editions from Philosophical Research Society, and to avoid the rest.Philosophical Research Society's Diamond Jubilee Authorized pb edition ISBN is: 0-89314-830-X(ask the bookseller to check the ISBN if the listing isn't clear about the edition - don't get fooled into buying a bad facsimile!)These are some of the authorized HC reprint editions issued by PRS over the years, any of which are worth buying.
Mr. Hall is a odd sort of fellow -- rapaciously curious, very widely read (in his chosen field, at least), quite articulate (albeit in a somewhat stodgy Victorian way), obviously intelligent -- but with seemingly no natural bent toward, well, actual scholarship.
I'm beginning to understand this book, therefore, as more of an entertaining romp through mystic history with a charmingly unreliable narrator than the sober resource work the author clearly meant it to be, and which it is still considered by many -- in esoteric circles, at least.
If anything, it has made me curious to learn the facts behind his claims and discover if perhaps they can at be least partly reconciled with his thinking.
While there is some supposition that what is being presented obscures the secret teachings, it feels like the books tries too hard to connect ancient mythologies, scientific discovery, and religion.
The Secret Teachings of All Time uses stories of gods and goddesses as well as scientific and mathematical discoveries to show the development of modern day religion.
Basically, I would describe The Secret Teachings of All Ages as attempting to document the evolution of religion in the world.
Parts of The Secret Teachings of All Ages were certainly interesting making it worth the read, but it failed to convince me it revealed any true secrets of which the world is unaware.
Wow! Manly Hall's ability to gather, explain and present these complex and ancient traditions in one comprehensive book is amazing. He has helped me to understand how important the mystery schools and their proponents were in establishing the foundation for our current cultural imprint. Though most of their rituals, messages and doctrines have been visually hidden from the "everyman," they are nonetheless imbedded in our psyche and are being activated into consciousness by the current thrust of empowered people who are seeking a oneness with all.
I've only read bits here and there, as it's more of a reference book than something to be read from start to finish.
Having said that, the book is very impressive in its detailed analysis of esoteric and mystical traditions found throughout history, and around the world.
The subjects are very varied - you can read about ancient Greek oracles, religion in ancient Egypt, black magic, the Kabbalah, the philosophy of alchemy, the pagan origins of Christianity, archetypes found in the world religions, and so on.What's even more impressive is that Manly P.
Hall wrote this when he was just 25!
Someone brought us this book some time ago and it is a real treasure that we have kept even in our migration to the farthest Western shores!The Silver Elvesauthors of books on magic and enchantment
I didn't read this cover to cover but it's an amazingly neutral treatment of the subject matter, for any time. And especially for when it was published. Wide range of ancient symbolism and a number of interpretations, lots of history. Wild stuff to think about on the origins of all religions.
I took 2 years and a half reading this, and it was worth every year. It's an encyclopedia of ancient spiritual knowledge. It is a blessed antidote for the materialist dystopia we moderns call "civilization."
One of the best comprehensive studies of world beliefs. The depth and span of this book is strikingly impressive. To imagine that he finished this work before the age of 30 only adds to the achievement. For anyone interested in the topic, this book is a must read.
One of the best collection of esoteric material. You can also find this book online, so check out sections and see if it interests you.
An encyclopedia (of sorts) like no other!
Eye opening book. Really enjoyed it. Reads a lot like an encyclopedia so I'm sure I'll be referencing it as I read and research topics it covers.
Not a book for readers who are looking for short explanations, but certainly for who is interested in an overview of history and content of esoteric traditions. An asset to anyone's library.
I wish i would have found and read this book from an early age. A must read! Then again I have never been let down by anything from Manly P Hall
If you love the secret knowledge passed down via the ancient mystery schools and if you love philosophy then I recommend this book.
Not only does Mr. Hall cover every philosopher in the pre-Socratic era and post-Socratic era but he gives a brief description of the philosophy and doctrines they taught.
An ancient philosopher once said: “He who has not even a knowledge of common things is a brute among men.
He who has an accurate knowledge of human concerns alone is a man among brutes.
This is a well-crafted book about the history of knowledge.
However, this book is mostly just the history of Western philosophy with a bit of esoteric wisdom thrown in.
I enjoyed the explication of many esoteric philosophical schools like the Druids, but wished there was more about practice rather than theory.
Hall's teachings, but I definitely enjoyed his readings of the history of knowledge as that is an area of research for me and saw a few correspondences I hadn't noticed before--and after the study I've put into these areas, saying that is quite a big complement to the author.
