https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28187.The_Lightning_Thief
I'm slightly ashamed to say that I watched the movie before I read the book.
But I'm even more ashamed that I watched the movie only to experience the hotness that is Logan Lerman.But, come on!
Because without his unfreakingbelieveable hotness, I wouldn't have watched the movie, and I would've never read the awesomeness of The Lightning Thief.
I could imagine everything vividly and I like to think that I know the camp from back to front.
If only they were like that in the camps I've been to.
You have to give a guy who make you laugh some credit.
A+ WritingA+ PlotA+ CharactersA+ MONSTERSI thoroughly enjoyed this book! I wish I hadn't watched the movie before reading it, because I felt like that ruined a bit of enjoyment of this book for me, but for the most part I had such a fun time reading this book and I'm looking forward to continuing on with the series.
I need more......
When I was about halfway through this book, I started making a list of its similarities to Harry Potter.
There are three young heroes: a brainy girl (Annabeth/Hermione), a funny screw-up type (Grover/Ron), and a somewhat troubled but very brave lead (Harry/Percy).2.
People freak when the Harry/Percy character says the name of a powerful character.
Chiron/Dumbledore knows a prophecy about Percy/Harry but won't tell Percy/Harry what it is exactly.6.
God, I loved Harry Potter.
Chiron looked surprised. “I thought that would be obvious enough. The entrance to the Underworld is in Los Angeles.” As someone who has worked in Los Angeles, I can tell you that this is completely accurate.While Harry Potter was spending his summers at the Dursleys, Percy Jackson attended Camp Half-Blood. This book has done the impossible: it has redeemed the name of Percy.Yes, that's right, that snot-faced, lily-livered waste of air of the very same name from the Harry Potter universe. That n
All of a sudden, he's playing Pinochle with a Greek God (Dionysus---what a drunk), his best friend Grover turns out to be a satyr, and the gorgeous blond girl who rescues him thinks he's a doofus and she keeps calling him "seaweed brain."To be fair, Percy had it coming.
Now Percy is shit out of luck YET AGAIN, and he's got no choice but to go on this huge stupid quest into the underworld (Los Angeles, ha!) to clear his name.He's not alone, he's accompanied by the snarky, gorgeous, fiercely competent Annabeth (she of the seaweed brain name-calling), as well as the most incompetent satyr that ever lived.
i feel like this is one of those books you would stock in garages for decades until your children come across them and are suddenly forced to humanize you for the conceivably interesting creature that you were, and thus ameliorating your relationship with them while they are inspired to dreamummm can't wait to force my kids to read this tbh 'look, i didn't want to be a half-blood.' (x)
Were you a bit weird in school?
Truth is, you're actually most likely a child of the gods with secret powers that enable you to zap those bullies and fulfill your true destiny.
I would want my hypothetical kids of the future to read this book.
It's the ultimate childhood fantasy - discovering that everything people labelled as "weird" or negative about you is actually caused by your secret awesomeness.
The best kids books are all about wish fulfillment to some extent and it's not like Percy Jackson doesn't have his fair share of enemies and heartache.
(A-) 82% | Very GoodNotes: It’s sugar and caffeine: a dulcet pop sonnet moved by rhyming couplets of worldbuilding and perilous confrontation.
Look, I didn't want to be a half-blood.
If you're reading this because you think you might be one, my advice is: close the book right now.
If you're a normal kid, reading this because you think it's fiction, great.
How he ended up in a half-blood camp (almost didn't) How he beat a Minotaur and later on, many things.
I thought it was a fun read and I loved all of the different mythical creatures!
They also get help from certain creatures and a pink poodle named Gladiola who ran away from home and doesn't want to go back but does so the kids can have some reward money.
EDIT 09/06/2013:-  That's it. I have had my fill of too many stupid, brain-cell destroying comments posted on this review in the past few months asking me to write a 'best-selling book' before attempting to take apart Rick Riordan's writing. As if the exclusive privilege of negatively criticizing a book is accorded only to published writers and not ordinary reviewers/readers. I do have the right to record my feelings about a book in my review. And it's such a shame that I am actually being forc
I have had my fill of too many stupid, brain-cell destroying comments posted on this review in the past few months asking me to write a 'best-selling book' before attempting to take apart Rick Riordan's writing.
As if the exclusive privilege of negatively criticizing a book is accorded only to published writers and not ordinary reviewers/readers.
Not only did the writer not bother racking his brains to come up with a plot or a proper story, choosing instead to recycle key elements of the Harry Potter series, but he also ignored important aspects of a fantasy novel, one of which is the language.
i probably see this at least a couple times a week, so i finally gave in and read it!
hehe.i will admit, this is the first time i have read a middle grade novel since i was that age, but i have to hand it to rick riordan.
this story is sooo unique, which is hard to do considering how many fantasy novels are out there for young readers.
i have heard some of riordans other books are aimed towards older readers, so i may give them a shot since i do love me some greek mythology!↠ 3.5 stars
Doubtful, but in utterly stupid human style I will write a review anyway attempting to tell people how cool this book is.This is plainly an  awesome  idea.
As an older reader I did see most of the twists coming but that is because the author is generous about hints, which I have always liked.
A few reviews mention how this is ripoff of Harry Potter, and now that I think about it I could see where they are coming from.
And I'm guessing this underdog is going to blow everyone out of the water.Extra Note: Oh glorious goodness they made a movie!
Thankfully, as an adult who likes reviewing books for fun in my spare time, I have absolutely no shame about reading the series now, even if it was originally intended for a younger audience.
(I may or may not have filled electives in high school and college with classes on mythology; just like I may or may not have obsessed over shows like Xena and Hercules in my teenage years.) I had a great time comparing my own personal knowledge of Greek mythology against the ways that Riordan weaves the stories into Percy's larger adventure.It's such a fun way to introduce Greek mythology to children and teens while staying entertaining for adults as well!
I want to adopt her- grover is a sweet, smol vegetarian who will forever have a special place in my heart- also he talks about food in his sleep- features a main character with ADHD and dyslexia- mythology is incorporated into the modern world in absolutely flawless and endlessly clever ways- it’s just so much fun?????This was the first book series I think I truly loved as a child after Harry Potter, and I honestly don’t know why I waited so long to reread this.
so having romantic, mysterious origins is the best thing ever - "maybe i am the son/daughter of a god/goddess/russian count, etc..." i still wonder about that, even though it is clear where i came from.2) this book has excellent gender equality, so it appeals to both younger girls and boys.
oh, i know why, because the people most likely to challenge shit are not themselves capable of making that logical leap; they operate solely on knee-jerk see-a-bad-word reactions.but this book is great - it has fantastic pacing, the characters are incredibly appealing, i like the premise, and i really really like that it is five books only.
A lot of these kids were, like, not even born yet the first time we read The Lightning Thief." We were kind of surrounded by little 7-year-old boys it seemed like.
The characters are great, the character relationships are nicely developed, the story is exciting, all the Greek mythology is tied in brilliantly, the humor is laugh-out-loud hilarious.
If you have read the book and seen the movie, I am crying with you right now.
If you have seen the movie and not read the book … well, something is wrong with you.
Go read the book, for crying out loud!
The only word I can think of that’s relevant to how I felt about this book is  Fun, Fun, Fun .
Why in the world haven’t I picked this book up when I was in middle school, I’ll never know.
Lbr, what’s in the past is in the past and I’ll just have to get over the fact that I might have crawled out of my shy shell sooner if these books were in my life earlier.
On a positive note, I have the whole series on hand ready for me to binge as well as 2763274 other series to look forward to.
that’s #sorta
. Why in the world haven’t I picked this book up when I was in middle school, I’ll never know.
I was all chill while my wonderful babies were out having the time of their lives, saving the world and of course trying not to get themselves killed in the meantime :’)- I loved how the writing was simple in that I’m learning elements of mythology without all the crazy info dump that YA/NA fantasies usually have.
I know, I know it’s weird.- I love me some books that I can fly by, especially during a time in need aka I-found-the-cure-to-my-really-strange-reading-slump.
But I was stubborn enough to not listen to 2 of my best half blood friends here on Goodreads to visit the Olympians.“Gods—the forces you call the Greek gods—are very much alive.”I can't believe it's just Mr. Rick Riordan’s first novel.And Believe me if you didn't read it..you missed a real great series..Very well written, well paced, amazing bunch of characters & funny sarcastic tone that you'll love no matter you're twelve or thirty three.And creepy atmosphere and nightmarish scenes, interwoven with huge honest references of the Greek myth that serves as crazy urban fantasy theories related to our real life..All that in a very hell of very thrilling real roller coaster plot, that takes you across the United States, and back again..A story that serve for one complete story for 'Book One', and leaves you longing for the next ones that promising of even bigger plot.Now, if you're still want me to talk about why you should start reading this series, heres the above's ..ANALYSE ▪▪Very Well Written.
I loved this book SO MUCH! Great characters, awesome world, fantastic writing, entertaining story--I can't think of any negatives! I will be adding the rest of the series (books 2-5) to my April TBR so I can read them ASAP!
Believe it or not, but this was actually my first Rick Riordan book!!!
XD After reading the first book I don’t really feel a connection to Annabeth, but maybe this is going to change?!
She seemed to be an interesting character and I liked their easy banter, altogether she was just too reserved for my taste though, which is pretty sad because I’m more than just certain that she’s actually a very cool girl!
Well, I guess I liked Grover as well!
;-P I just hope he’ll survive his personal quest and I can’t help but wonder if we’re going to see him in one of the next books!
Celyn enjoyed the action and humour, and I enjoyed seeing the Greek legends I loved reading about as a kid given a new lease of life, offered up to the most recent generation.It starts off with that irresistible device beloved of fantasy books that you (vicariously the hero) were meant for more than this regular old world and that all those odd things you don't understand about everyday life ...
Hoorah!So Percy gets inducted into hero school, makes friends with good monsters, fights and kills bad ones, and dives into adventure.The hero school (Camp Halfblood) has demi-gods descended from all the Greek mythos, which makes for fun conflicts.
This was a lot of fun and I really enjoyed it. I can obviously see the similarities to Harry Potter that everyone talks about, but being that I only read the first book in the HP series in 2017...I didn't really care all that much, quite frankly. I thought Percy's sarcastic wit made for a great narrator and, as always, I love it when mythology is tied into a story in a way I enjoy. Looking forward to the rest of the series.
I don't care if this is middle grade literature. I am starting this soon!
٩(^ᴗ^)۶  “If you’re reading this because you think you might be one, my advice is: close this book right now.
I didn’t think I would LOVE a middle school book as much as I loved this one but I was thoroughly entertained the entire way!I’m so enthralled with the setting of Camp Half-Blood, like can we get an entire book just set there??
“If my life is going to mean anything, I have to live it myself.”  Okay, stay tuned cause I’m gonna be back for more of this Percy kid.
THE TIME HAS COME, GUYS. I mean, I bought a copy like months ago and never knowing when I would read it but HERE I AM READING IT FOR THE FIRST TIME. 😎😎( but I have watched the movie ... and I wish I hadn't watched the movie before reading the book 😭😭but it happened before I became a reader. )~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ REVIEW TO COME TOMORROW All I can say now is " FUCK I NEED THE SECOND BOOK "THE REVIEW IS POSTEDto be honest, few months ago, I tried reading this book and then after I
All I can say now is " FUCK I NEED THE SECOND BOOK "THE REVIEW IS POSTEDto be honest, few months ago, I tried reading this book and then after I read a few pages, I just found it boring and then I just put it back on my bookshelf but I also said to myself that I was just not in the mood to read it at the moment so I would just read it another time and then few weeks, I decided to read it again because I just had this feeling that I was in the right mood to read it and my friend, Melanie, she loved this series and she also recommended it to me like ...
this is the kind of friendship that I always want to read in books.
I’m crying I love this book and series so much my parents taught me how to read just so I could read this book I can die happy now I have no other reason to exist than to read this book
I have never read a book by Rick Riordan and I have never been more ashamed of myself. And I have this book in my shelf for 7 years. 7 years!!And now I’ll finally read it and love it. At least I hope, or else I’m going to be very disappointed with myself. I love sarcastic characters and for what I heard Percy is top in that.
person: your name is percy?? like percy jackson??me: (internally: who tf is that) yea i guess. person: is it short for perseus????me: ...............yes? person: OMG!!!!! LITERALLY LIKE PERCY JACKSON!!!!!!! YOU'RE PERCY JACKSON!!!!!!!!!!me: uhhhhh.... ok but my surname isn't jackso-person: PERCY JACKSONNNNNNN!!!!!!! after that above conversation occurring approximately 1000 times in the space of like a month with 1000 different people, i should probably read this book and find out what the big deal is. I GUESS.
“It's funny how humans can wrap their mind around things and fit them into their version of reality.”  Story ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐First of all: Now I see why so many people are angry at the movies. They’re so different. I mean, they have some similarities, but in a big way they’re different. And what can I say? Am I surprised that I liked the book more than the movie? No, absolutely not. I liked the movies, but after I saw what the real story should’ve been like, I think they could’ve made more of it. Second:
it’s a great book and I can’t wait to continue the story of Percy and his friends.Characters ⭐️⭐️⭐️Is my thirteen year old self in love with Percy?
It’s hugely entertaining and funny and I loved it, even though there could’ve been more depth to the whole world building (but maybe that’s just a first book illness and it’s getting better with every book - who knows?) All in all it was really good for the genre it’s in.
Fitting for a children’s book and a light hearted but still action filled story.It’s definitely worth trying it out even if you’re an adult and waited years to read it.
Buddyread with the demigod squad мαү, Jenn and Chara Illustrations by: KAIAYAME “Deadlines just aren't real to me until I'm staring one in the face.”   More like 3.5 stars to be honest. I wish I had read this book when I was a kid. I feel like 12 year old Kimi would have absolutely adored it. That being said I still really enjoyed it as a 23 year old. It was a pretty awesome little adventure and I'm glad I read it. ➨Grover is definitely my favorite character of the series so far. He's basically
-------Pre-reading:For all those of you who are like "Hey Kimi, where have you been for the last 10 years?" Well, let's blame it on my parents (as you do) for never buying me a Percy Jackson book when I was a kid.
When I first heard about this series, the train had already left and I was already "too old" for this kind of books so I let it go but now Rick Riordan keeps coming out with these awesome new books every year that everyone i know absolutely loves and I'm just sitting there in the corner.
