https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1269821.The_Foxes_of_Harrow
This book, published in 1946, seven years after GONE WITH THE WIND, is the superior Civil War novel.
But a white woman wrote GONE WITH THE WIND, and her Southern men are presented as heroes, and slavery is largely accepted as a system of patronage.
THE FOXES OF HARROW was written by a black man, and the men in it-- Northern, Southern, black, white-- have far more complexity as characters.
Another woman, white, believing her husband killed in battle, prostitutes herself to Union soldiers, to barter for medicine to bring to Confederate soldiers dying of gangrene.THE FOXES OF HARROW became the first best-seller written by an African-American author, Frank Yerby.
I just finished a re-read of this book. I read it for the first time more than 25 years ago. A friend happened upon a reference to it in another book and that prompted her to read it for the first time and for me to do a re-read.My first read was my mother's copy so very long ago. I was fascinated by the book and characters. I still felt the pull of this book so many years later and I glad that I paid it another visit.
I found this book (copyright 1946) in my deceased mother-in-law's library at my mother's home.
Needless to say, this simple comment aroused my interest in the book!The novel begins in 1825, Pre-civil War Louisiana, when the young Irishman, Stephen Fox, arrives in New Orleans on a pig boat.
Frank Yerby wrote a detailed historical novel that allows the reader to experience some of the "beauty" (landscapes, mansions, attire), but mostly the "brutality" (slavery, disease, pride, racial prejudice, gender prejudice) of the antebellum south.
Yerby also details a glimpse into both the physical and the psychological aspect of war.
I see more Frank Yerby novels in my future.
A massive runaway historical best-sellers during the forties that, like so many others, became a Hollywood superproduction, The Foxes of Harrow is a fascinating and, for its time, quite daring piece of popular literature : Yerby, an African-American author, decided to write what, until then, was only done by white writers : a tumultuous epic about the old South.
As an example of how an African-American writer found his way onto the bestseller list at a time when that was very unusual, and of how he put a twist on a genre dominated by white writers, The Foxes of Harrow is quite a beguiling read.
A captivating read on the culture of New Orleans both before and during the civil war.
It really opened up my eyes to how things must have been then.
As far as sanitation goes, they had just open ditch sewers that caused massive plagues yearly during the hottest part of the summer.
Amazing that the authorities never took action.
I really like Frank Yerby's work in that he really immerses you in culture, while you're captivated by his main character.
I really liked how it confronted the racial tensions in New Orleans, both before and after the war.
I just re-read this book for the 5th time just to see if age had changed my perspective at all on Yerby's writing.
While i was always annoyed by his huge, run-on sentences (and still am) and his at-times flowery descriptions (still there), this is still a great story after all these years.
What is even more amazing was to "google" Frank Yerby, the author, and find that "Foxes of Harrow" was the first bestselling book by an African-American author (his father was Black, his mother was Caucasian) to hit the shelves, doing so in 1946.
Fifty years ago I was advised against reading this book, my mother explained it was for adults!! She was correct, of course. A ripping yarn, a family saga set in and near New Orleans, somewhat reminiscent of Gone With the Wind.
Aunt Nancy liked Frank Yerby's works, and I noticed "The Foxes of Harrow" in particular; read it; really thought it was very interesting and atmospheric.
So, I've finished re-reading this very interesting work of historical fiction and find that contrary to what Yerby might've said, political views did so seep into the mainframe here.
Influential Americans were persuaded to support Lopez' efforts, leading to indictments of some of these folks, including a former chief justice of what's now known as the Mississippi Supreme Court, Cotesworth Pinckney Smith, for whom Smith's friend, James Z.
Loved the characters, all of them, and loved the action but I wish historical fiction writers would realize in real life people do not stand around accurately speculating about the next 100 years all the time! We cover a LOT of ground here, from the 1820’s to the 1860’s, all of it in and around New Orleans, in its beautiful, dazzlingly, richly done up squalor. It was a fascinating tale, rounding out a lot of the stuff that got left out of Gone With the Wind, but I’m still positive I’d never want to live in New Orleans.
Loved it. A great historically informative tale of extremes - of poverty and extreme fortune, freedom and human slavery, love, love, more love and war. I fell in love with some of the characters, the women were heroic and amazing, and some (of the characters) were unbearable, but made for an exciting read.
I read my first book by Frank Yerby (left behind by previous renters) the summer I was 15. 15 year old girl, of course I fell in love and went on to read every book he wrote. As with Deliverence, I would never reread any of Yerby's books; they were too extraordinary a reading experience for me then that I won't risk spoiling it now. Memories: good.
My mother had this book stashed away in her bedside table. She told me it was too "risque" for me to read. I didn't even know what risque meant but once I started sneaking it and reading it I figured it out. Whew! I had to read as many Frank Yerby books as I could after that.
My Grandmotherr gave me my first Frank Yerby novel in 1958. I have loved all his books that I have read.He is tops in the OLD South day and slavery. A black man himself he wrote honestly. Sadly he is gone now. I recommend all his books.
I read all of Mr. Yerby's books when I was a teenager and am now re-reading them. Love his books!
A poor riverboat gambler wins a plantation, marries the most beautiful woman in the county, and is happy until he sees the quadroon Desiree.
Foxes of Harrow is definitely an entertaining yarn, but it has noticeable lapses in storytelling that makes me prevent from rating it anything more than a three.
Despite Reynolds's violence in Old Gods Laugh, I think his characterization was a bit more well-written.
I find it difficult to empathize with Stephen Fox or his family, as I have difficulty commiserating with individuals who are pro-slavery in this day and age.
It's a good story, but it's a lot more unfocused than Old Gods Laugh.
This is another book from my mother's collection.
At first, I thought it would be another pre-Civil War "bodice ripper," but I was pleasantly surprised.
Frank Yerby was an African-American writer, so obviously his perspective on the story was different, to say the least.
The novel is set in Louisiana, and there is a lot of good information about the state and New Orleans at that time.
I actually learned quite a bit.
Yerby's descriptive passages are, for the most part, beautifully written and clearly evoke the unique atmosphere of Louisiana and New Orleans.
Every character in this books falls in love so quickly lol Interesting how Stephen Fox had one child with each woman, first wife, lover, second wife and how wrong he was when he thought he married with the right woman first time. I was rooting for him and Aurore because she truly loved him, Odalie was like her son, this two never knew what being in love or loving someone means. Glad how story ended.
Stephen Fox disembarked in New Orleans in 1825 on a pig boat, with a $10 gold piece, a pearl stick pin and a dream. Fox saw his chance as three women threatened to destroy him and his Louisiana empire in the days before the Civil War. He gambled and won.. and built Harrow, the greatest manor house and plantation in Louisiana.
Read this Yerby novel in the 80s
I read this back in the 60's when I was in high school. Loved it then and loved it now. This is a book that really got me into reading. A "can't put it down book".
I'd never heard of Frank Yerby until I read Knight of Ocean Avenue.
So I googled him and found out some interesting information about him then decided to read his most popular work and voila!This book is long and very detailed.
It was an interesting read and I'm glad I read it.
The story does become a bit rushed towards the latter part of the book and I didn't care for the parts that focused on the war.
Etienne Fox was one character I was rooting would die in the book.
Well now I'll have to read Gone with the Wind and see how it compares.
It is the story of Stephen Fox, an gambling Irishman who makes his home near New Orleans in the early 1800's.
Many interesting historical events are part of the story (the yellow fever epidemic of New Orleans, slavery, and the Civil War).
The book described New Orleans as a fun-loving party town where sanitary conditions were disregarded, leading to much disease and subsequent deaths in the city.
The Civil War was not a large part of the book; the major part of the book centered around Stephen Fox's loves - his wife, her sister and his mistress.
Maybe a 3.5. The trouble with this book was that it was so inconsistent. The writing was beautiful at times, while the plot was like a soap opera and some of the characters weren't believable. I liked reading about this Southern family through several generations and it was interesting to read about the Civil War from a New Orleans perspective. It's hard to find copies of this book (written in 1946) but it's worth searching out.
Yes, yes, my mom picked this out for me because it had the word "fox" in it. I love foxes, but figured this would have nothing to do with animals. ;) I figured I wasn't going to read it, but then I found out the book didn't do too bad - it's the first best-seller from an African-American. I'll give it a shot!
I read this book ,either from my Mother's library or the Public Library....I read all of his books( that I could find), about romance and struggle in the old South ,that I could get my hands on. Many years later I discovered he was a black man. I would like to re read one today and see what I think.
Superb writing and storytelling. The reason I don't recommend it is because in order to really get the feel of the era the way the book would present it, you need to sympathize with the haughty, desperate, lecherous and wildly ambitious plantation owners in their passions; truth, humility, and love are virtues seen only in retrospect, not guiding powers.
WHY IT'S ON MY TO-READ: First best seller by an African American. Considered risqué at the time (1946). Unlike Gone With The Wind, apparently a truer representation of the slavery, racial and gender inequality, and raucousness of the Antibellum South. Ultimately, the book became a 1947 Oscar-nominated film of the same name starring Rex Harrison and Maureen O'Hara.
My mom liked Yerby, so I did too. He was a popular writer back then, known for being somewhat risque (mild by today's standards). I read this when I was in high school. I wonder what I would think of it now.
I thought that this was a captivating book about the southern planter. Stephen Fox's life story from the beginning in 1825 to the ending after the civil war was brought together nicely as a romantic love novel. Overall, I think that people should give the book a try
