https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1235687.The_Lion_and_the_Unicorn
Orwell is saying here that the war will not be won if the same old upper class fools are in charge, and that a socialist revolution is needed to get the right ruthlessness into the fight.
A generation of the unteachable is hanging upon us like a necklace of corpses.Orwell lived until to 1950 & so witnessed the victory over fascism and a kind of socialist revolution in Britain caused by the war – this was the Labour government of 1945 which created the famous welfare state, including the National Health Service, an organisation which is the 4th largest employer in the world (1st 3 are – US department of defence, Peoples Liberation Army of China, and Walmart).
He explains how the capitalist system could not compete with the planned economies of the fascist powers, with their ability to out compete on armaments production, since in Britain the profit motive encouraged not the manufacture of bomber planes but of Rolls Royce cars, with newspaper advertisements still consisting of luxury chocolates etc.
This would create a much more psychologically resilient and productive population which would know what it was fighting for and, with its limited resources distributed more equally, the practical and psychological benefits would be massive.
Orwell’i nedense sevemiyorum bir türlü. 1984 ve Hayvan Çiftliği çok iyi kitaplar olsa da bir şeyler eksik geldi bana ama bu kitabı pek tutmadım.
El análisis sobre la obra de Henry Miller y la literatura inglesa de 1920 y 30 resulta ser interesante; sobre todo por la capacidad que tiene Orwell para valorar las cosas en su justa proporción.
Ahora bien, sólo me queda reconocer un último ensayo, de corte eminentemente biógrafico; esto es, ¡Ay, alegrías aquellas!, que termina por ser una bella reflexión sobre el papel de la educación en la formación de los niños y sus aspiraciones.
I am not keen on these themes and problems Orwell discussed, nevertheless, he did it in a simple way, so anyone can understand.
This work is extremely local, meaning England-focused.
It is normal that you can not understand some things.
However, if we simplify, there are two big parts (not 3 like the author divided) in the work: the first - general description of the terrible war situation England found itself and the second - the critique of the upper class in the society.
I am not gonna go deep and explain the main ideas of the book or my personal opinions.
Written during the onslaught of the Second World War, Orwell builds up a treatise on how that conflict could be used to bring forth a quiet English revolution.
He argues, and argues convincingly, that patriotism, far being the sole reserve of the conservative or scoundrel, is a natural and integral part of democratic socialism; that the present democracy is nothing more than private capitalism; that the cowardly intellectuals of the Left who wanted Britain to lose the war are the same individuals who have only helped the growth of the Far Right.
Obviously, this has dated in places and a lot of his predictions, what he saw as inevitabilities, have failed to come to pass - but there will be other wars, other political systems; will there ever be another Orwell?
Davison ends his introduction noting: 'In the second half of 1949, Orwell listed four books that were not to be reprinted: 'A clergyman's daughter', 'Keep the Aspidistra flying', 'The lion and the unicorn', and 'The English people'.
Oh well all have been reprinted in different editions over the last 70 years...There is a seemingly very useful book, I've only dipped into it by Kristian Williams, 'Between the bullet and the lie: essays on Orwell' (2017) which includes an appendix: 'Reading Orwell: a study plan', containing 13 sections with key text highlighted in bold.
1941'de Almanların Avrupayı işgal ettiği ve henüz Sovyet ve Amerikan desteğinin ortada gözükmediği sıralarda İngiltereye dair gözlemleri kavramak için okunabilir.
Orwell, İngiliz milletinin biraz incelemesini yaptıktan sonra ona savaşı kazandıracak bir reçete öneriyor.
Bu reçete sosyalizm.
Ancak bu sosyalizm Stalinin Bolşevizmi ya da İngilteredeki millet karşıtı komünistlerin programı değil, yurtseverliğin verimini en üst seviyeye çıkartacak bir program.
Orwell sık sık Almanlara karşı savaşın, Münich de taviz veren ve faşizme, komünizmi engellediği için içten içe sempati besleyen egemen sınıflar ile yürütülemeyeceğini ve Rolls-Royce arabalara binenlerin yurtseverliği baltaladığına dikkati çekiyor.
Yazarın ideolojik tezleri bir yana bu kitap 1941 İngilteresinin psikolojisini anlamak için birebir.
He does have a something of a tendency to rely on gambits such as "anyone with eyes can see" that a certain argument is irrefutable, without doing the legwork necessary to actually make the case.
I can sympathize with someone who thinks a certain point is so obvious it doesn't need to be argued, but as a polemical strategy, it is ineffective, as it really only works on those who already see what you do.
Nevertheless, the pleasures of Orwell's strong and pellucid prose style make this worth reading on a purely aesthetic level, never mind the political.
Tankar som är aktuella ännu idag.
So much of this is still relevant today. Sad how little so many things have stayed the same.
He is serving his country, which has the power to absolve him from evil.”He believes in nationalism (as against a world government which he considers not viable) but concludes that a nation is beyond political or military cultures.
Moreover, being negative and irresponsible, it does not inspire much devotion."He argues that it is fatal to be pacifist in world full of wicked powers.He argues that for any country to hold a difficult war over long time, a kind of minimum socialism is must - Here, by socialism he meant an economic system and not a one-party political system (for later apt word is communism -the two concepts are often confused).

"By revolution we become more ourselves, not less."
George Orwell offers forth another gem of genius in this brief (80 odd page) essay written during the Second world war.
He calls for a post war revolution which would see the nationalisation of public services, the equalization of education for all and the implementation of a national minimum wage with the disparity between the highest and lowest paid being no more than tenfold.
Relevant to now.We have learned everything and nothing and whilst so much has changed since the Second world war, in some ways nothing has changed.
Written in 1941, Orwell's 3 essays are focused upon the problems faced by the United Kingdom/ British Isles/ Albion/ England/ Britain/ Great Britain, as he says plainly.
In the first essay, he discusses the character of England, and in the wider sense, the United Kingdom.
And above all, it is your civilisation, it is you."In the second essay, he discusses Socialism, Communism, Soviet-style Communism, Capitalism, Fascism, and Totalitarianism.
In this, he expresses that he is an un-closeted Socialist.
He also touches on the Socialist movement, and the impotence of the Conservative and Labour parties.
In the first part (England your England), the author talks about the national characteristic of the English people.
I have one criticism: Orwell said Fascism will never take root in England because of their national characteristics.
Be proud of your country, but never underestimate evil.Second part (Shopkeepers at War) and third part (The English Revolution) advocate for Socialism.
No need to say more of how terrible this is.Orwell's thought on colonialism:"...backward countries like India and the African colonies can be no more independent than can a cat or a dog." But at least he wants to give India Dominion status with power to secede after the war, still progressive at that time.As one of his reader, I am disappointed.
This is, as other readers have mentioned, a very local book, in that it obviously centres around England and how they will be able to win the war.
An excellent example of this, is that the wealthy who control the factories (which create the weapons) will only create the tools needed for a war if it directly benefits them, i.e. a good business deal.
Just weeks before war, British factories sold the Germans materials for weapons, even though they were the enemy.
Before I give the whole book away, I would highly recommend this book, especially because it led me to do further research on politics in Britain and quenched my political/historical sides.
Orwell rightly makes the point that it is one thing to compare ideal philosophies and forms of government on paper and another thing to decide what actual working system you want to live under.Other quotable moments: Those who want to preserve their way of life without change (British appeasers) forget that to "preserve is always to extend." The choice is "between revolution and apathy." I can understand this concept as a parent and teacher: Pushing forward toward the familial or educational goals must be a constant movement, because resting and letting things slide means letting things slide downhill, not up.
Change is part of the nature of living things.Finally, in light of the current American crisis/tragedy, I must quote Orwell's conclusion: "But England has got to be true to herself.
Orwell is insightful and undogmatic which gives him the ability to be clear on all sides of his story, he doesn't seem to be patriotic but he appreciates the power of English patriotism in keeping the country on a similar footing, he isn't a warmonger but knows when a fight (in this case against Hitler) is unavoidable, and he is a leftest but knows when the left wing (as it is today) is in the throws of Moscow and unable to lead its own line of thought.One thing he was wrong about, that is the revolution he thought was taking place under the surface.
For this reason alone this short work should be read by anyone who thinks they know better than the common man, or woman.Orwell got a lot right, but it is also interesting, some 75+ years down the track, to see what he got wrong.
Yet only a few years later once the American war effort picked up, Orwell would have seen what capitalism on steroids could achieve in support of the war effort and that guns and butter was indeed possible.
Unfortunately the Brits went with socialism after the War and what a mess that turned out to be.Another reason for reading, and rereading, Orwell, is for his fantastic way with words and his clarity of style.
1984 ve Hayvan Çiftliği romanları ile otoriterlik eleştirisinde çığır açan Orwell'in ikinci dünya savaşı sırasında Büyük Britanya İmparatorluğu'na yönelik "devrimci" tezlerini içeren kısa bir makale aslında "Aslan ve Unicorn".
İmparatorluk ambleminde kalkanı tutan Aslan ve Tek boynuzlu attan ismini alan makale, İngiliz denilen toplumun Avrupa'nın diğer toplumlarından neden ve nasıl farklı olduğunu anlatarak başlıyor.
Komünist Partisi ve İşçi Partisi'ni yani Britanya solunu aciz, yetersiz, basit bularak eleştiren Orwell, "milliyetçilik" ile desteklenmiş bir "solcu" devrim önerisi getiriyor.
He spoke romantically about an Empire that he foresaw was in its last embers, but necessarily held steadfast during the war years and against Hitlers grand plan.
An empire that, at least in spirit, was largely united against a common enemy, whilst ideologically divided and bogged down by some of the dogma of the past and status quo.An underlying theme in the book is in the endless paradoxes of the English and, more broadly, the British.
Distinctions that Orwell makes whilst pointing out many peculiarities, ironies and idiosyncrasies of a nation!It’s a fascinating window back into that bygone age, a period that is forever etched into the minds and history of the world, shall we not be doomed to repeat it.
George Orwell was a master of that now almost defunct literary form, the essay.
Written in the dark days of 1940 (reflected in its famous opening sentence: 'As I write, civilised human beings are flying overhead, trying to kill me'), it is a remarkably urgent polemic in which Orwell makes the case for English socialism (a very particular, patriotic socialism that reflects and ensures protection for a unique English character) as an immediate priority and as an essential precondition to winning the war.
Written in crystal clear prose, it is a masterclass in prose style.
Açıkçası İngilizler ve Britanya hakkında daha çok eleştirilerin sıralandığı bir kitap buldum. Orwell'in politik eleştirileri ve tespitleri mantıklı ve başarılı. Kitaptan birkaç alıntı yapmak gerekirse:"İngiltere güneşin altındaki en fazla sınıf hakimiyeti olan ülkedir. Yaşlı ve aptal tarafından hüküm sürdürülen kendini beğenmişliğin ve ayrıcalığın ülkesidir.""Burada çok önemli bir İngiliz özelliğine geliyoruz; Anayasacılığa ve yasallığa saygı.Hiç kimse adil bir yasa düşlemez. Herkes bilir ki zenginler için bir yasa vardır, fakirler için de başka bir tane. Fakat, kimse bunun sonuçlarını kabul etmez, herkes bu yasaları, kayıtsız şartsız, saygıyla kabul eder ve sanki onlar olmazsa şiddet ve kargaşa olacağı duygusuna kapılır."
Autor ineludible para entender el siglo XX, George Orwell (1903-1950) fue no sólo un gran novelista (1984 o Rebelión en la granja están entre sus títulos fundamentales), sino un sesudo analista de la realidad que le tocó vivir. La editorial Turner compila, en esta edición, sus ensayos más importantes e incluye El león y el unicornio, escrito necesario para comprender la Inglaterra contemporánea.
We socialistsThe revolution never did happen in England as Orwell predicted in this book that's why I've only given it four stars but the book was informative and easy to understand. It is a pity that so called scholars think that Orwell was no socialist or even a revolutionary. It is obvious they've haven't read this book or they are just propagandists.
"As I write, highly civilized human beings are flying overhead, trying to kill me."
honest and straightforward.
Great read, even nowadays - no, especially nowadays!
