https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24986.Fire_Watch
*shudder*I also enjoyed The Sidon In The Mirror - a fascinating setting and character concept with far more potential that Willis had the chance to mine (no pun intended if you've read the story) here.Mail Order Close was fun - and just perfect for the short story length.Daisy In The Sun reminded me a lot of another Willis book - Passage with it's use of dreamscapes and memory echoes - actually more effective here than in PassageThe rest...
I'm a tough audience for short stories, but there were enough gems here to keep me happy and, like I said, Blued Moon was a 5-star smash hit and worth the £3 I paid for the book all by itself :-)After this I read: Goliath
I picked today because my library copy of her new book, All Clear, is very large and heavy and impractical to haul around New York on my back along with two dozen bagels, which is impractical enough on its own.
I had expected that she might have given some background in this first novella that I had been missing ever since, but I should have known better.
She tells us what we need to know, then concentrates on the real story at hand, which has nothing to do with time travel and everything to do with human resilience and the true costs of history.
It was published in 1982, and won the 1983 Hugo & Nebula Awards for Best Short Story.
The narrator is a time-traveling grad student from a future Oxford University, who is sent to the London Blitz due to a clerical error.
(He was supposed to travel with St Paul for his practical exam, but instead ends up assigned to the Fire Watch for St Paul’s Cathedral.) Of course, he is completely unprepared and has no idea what’s going on.
***"A Letter from the Clearys" - This tale of a family in a post-apocalyptic world won the Nebula Award for Best Short Story in 1982.
Good work. Not quite a four, but it was her first Oxford Time travel story and one of her first. A straight, clear, hit-you-in-the-solar-plexus kind of tale.References to Kivrin's Doomsday Book adventures are especially interesting as the novella Fire Watch was written almost a decade before Doomsday Book.
Рука не поднимается поставить меньше, я так рыдала в конце. Кошка, 1.
I just read the title story, not the whole collection.
I've been meaning to read Connie Willis' stuff for a long time, since several friends in one of my groups are very enthusiastic about her work.
You get thrown in at the deep end a bit at the beginning: it helped me to know that it was a story about a history student going back in time as part of their studies.
Connie Willis has a wonderful writing style, engrossing prose and a wonderful sense of detail and character. Whether she's writing science fiction or a ghost story, it's always the human element she explores."Fire Watch" is the most significant of the stories in this collection, mostly because it precedes the multi-award-winning "Oxford time travelers" novels (Doomsday Book, To Say Nothing of the Dog, Blackout and All Clear). Nonetheless, most of the other stories are almost as engrossing.
Three stars on average. As with most collections, the quality went up and down.Το τριάρι είναι κατά μέσο όρο. Όπως σε όλες τις συλλογές διηγημάτων, η ποιότητα ποικίλει.
Her worldbuilding in these stories is fantastic, filled with offhanded little details that flesh everything out and make it feel more real - but this often ends up detracting from the emotional content of the story.
"Lost and Found" felt like more of an exploration of concept than a real story; had it had fewer characters, it might have come off a little better.That said, I'm definitely going to read more Willis.
This is a 1998 reissue of a 1985 collection of short stories by Connie Willis who has won six Nebula and five Hugo awards for her sci-fi fiction.
Her "Doomsday Book" of 1992 was one of the best science fiction novels I've ever read.
Science fiction can be the most subversive of genres but has tended to be prudish as well.
"All My Darling Daughters" takes place on an orbiting college campus and hints at parental abuse, bestiality, and kinky sex.
It also features an excellent vocabulary of expletives worthy of college students of the future.
Short story collection contains: Fire Watch - Service for the Burial of the Dead - Lost and Found - All My Darling Daughters - The Father of the Bride - A Letter from the Clearys - And Come from Miles Around - The Sidon in the Mirror - Daisy, in the Sun - Mail-Order Clone - Samaritan - Blued Moon -
so like one night my partner-in-crime said this author would be the person he'd trade me in for and I was all offended UNTIL I READ THIS BOOK and now I'm all "Oh, I get it now."
The last story in this collection ("Blued Moon") is my favorite of the lot. It has coincidences and misunderstandings, and is just generally a lot of fun. (And to reference the intro to the story: yes, she makes it look easy.)I also particularly enjoyed a few of the others, mostly "And Come From Miles Around" and "A Letter From the Clearys." It's a typical short story collection in that everyone will like different stories to different degrees, and I didn't enjoy all of the stories equally.Overall, though, this is a solid addition to my Connie Willis collection.
A nice collection of short stories by an excellent writer. I remember reading Blued Moon when it came out in Isaac Asimov's Science Fiction Magazine way back in 1984. I had a subscription. Kind of wish I had that magazine now.
Connie Willis is brilliant.
I have to say, I didn't really like the short story "Fire Watch," whose title became the title for the collection.
Maybe Willis was doing that on purpose.
However, I liked almost all of the other stories in the book very much.
(Half the art in science fiction is making a projected future seem completely possible, and Willis demonstrated a respectable familiarity with American denominationalism as she constructed a future religious landscape I couldn't help but half-believe in.) It also moved me to tears--big, rolling, silent tears as I sat squeezed between my sleeping mom and a stranger on the plane from Phoenix to Lihue.
I was introduced to this author through a friend of mine and found that I enjoyed the universe so when I found out that "Fire Watch" was the first story ever written in this universe I thought I'd start off right and get to know the rest of the stories.
The rest are an odd collection ranging from totally bizarre to down-right fun."All My Darling Daughters" leads the totally bizarre pack hands down and is not for the faint of heart.
The concept, once I figured out what was being implied, made me shudder in disgust.My favorite, which leads the down-right fun pack, is the last one, "Blued Moon".
Another collection of short stories by Connie Willis.
Looks like the main story, "Fire Watch", takes place after Doomsday Book.
And I suspect in the same world as another story of hers I read which I can't immediately recall.
Themes that crop up in other stories of hers.Oh yea, one other theme I forgot to mention in my review of another collection of hers: academic bureaucracy.I don't think any of the stories in here particularly stood out for me.
It's nice not to feel like I'm slogging through one or two stories just to say I've read the whole book.
None of the stories was a slog.
I am most of the way through Fire Watch, the first story, and have put down my Kindle because I don't want my fictional world to end.
(Well, the Blitz can end - let say not even start, but I want the Historians to stay around.) Why did it take so long to read this book?
I read the stories around library books.
Fire Watch, the historian story, of course was close to my heart.
And of course, even though all the stories are excellent, if one doesn't appeal to you, just skip it and go on to the next story.
Fire Watch is an excellent collection of stories and showcases what a wide range of styles Willis masters.
The title story is the first piece of the Oxford Time Travel series, and I just re-read it after having recently finished Blackout/All Clear.
I was amazed at how well the events in a story published almost thirty years earlier had been woven in to the newer novel from a different perspective.
It's a shame that her production of short work has dropped in recent years, because she's so very good at it.
I have enjoyed several of Connie Willis' novels and this collection of short stories had 'Blued Moon', a light hearted short I've always liked. Unfortunately, it and 'Fire Watch' are the only two stories I really enjoyed in this book. Several stories were disturbing, frankly. 'Blued Moon' is fun and 'Fire Watch' is also good, but for it you might be better off if you have read 'the Doomsday Book' and understand her time travel setting. A short story doesn't give much room to explain it.
Willis is an author that never ceases to delight me, but for reasons unknown I've yet to go on one of those tears where I devour everything she's written and then wait rather less than patiently for her to write some more. The upshot of this oversight is then getting to fall over gems like this collection, which is a fine example of what can happen with intriguing two-sentence premises in the capable hands of a gifted writer.
A collection of fantasy short stories by Connie Willis. One is set in the same world as 'To Say Nothing of the Dog' and 'Doomsday Book' but the rest are entirely different. Some I liked a lot (especially the last one), others less so, therefore I gave it only 3 stars.
To say the least, I was disappointed. I read the first short story in this collection, the title work, for its affinity with the Blackout series. It was OK. As I read further I became less and less pleased with the stories. A few were OK, a few were really terrible. I even skipped one. I didn't find this collection up to the author's standards.
A real mixed bag but "All My Darling Daughters" is one of the most devastating things I've ever read.
Willis is one of the finest storytellers ever. She can pack a hell of a lot into a tight little story.
Wonderful stories, always taut with suspense, Connie Willis's unique stamp all over them. This book still haunts my notion of World War II.
The weakest story in this was the time travel one, only because it did not use the same rules as the related novels.
A bit all of the place. There was one story that was very. very profoundly disturbing, but the other few were just 'meh' at best
Nie bawi się w pokazywanie laserorubinów, filtrfraków i innych kosmicznych pierdół.Na 11 opowiadań, tylko jedno było dla mnie nie do przyjęcia, tytułowe "Zaćmienie", którego albo nie zrozumiałem, albo jest pokrętne.
Nie jest to książka, którą trzeba przeczytać, ale w wolnym czasie, z braku laku...OPINIA Z 4 WRZEŚNIA 2009Książki, które w ciągu ostatnich kilku miesięcy czytałem, można by było w większości wypadków nazwać tomiskami.
No tak, wszystko teoretycznie jest dane, jak na tacy, jednak i tak nie wiadomo skąd te wnioski, dlaczego tak się stało i czy warto było o czymś takim pisać.
The stories range from dark and disturbing (All My Darling Daughters) to the light and humorous (Blued Moon) but all are cleverly conceived and very much character driven.Fire Watch (Asimovs - February 1982)Service For The Burial of The Dead (The Magazine of Fantasy & Science Fiction – November 1982)Lost and Found (Rod Serling’s Twilight Zone Magazine – January 1982)Father of The Bride (Rod Serling’s Twilight Zone Magazine – May 1982)A Letter From the Clearys (Asimovs - July 1982)And Come From Miles Around (Galileo Magazine – September 1979)The Sidon in The Mirror (Asimovs – April 1983)Daisy, in The Sun (Galileo Magazine – November 1979)Mail Order Clone (The Magazine of Fantasy & Science Fiction – August 1982)Samaritan (Galileo Magazine – May 1979)Blued Moon (Asimovs – January 1984)Fire WatchSet in the same world as her ‘Doomsday Book’ this story sees a researcher sent back in time to a London of World War II to become a warden at St Paul’s CathedralService For The Burial of The DeadUnsurprisingly, many of Willis’ main characters are female.
