https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1656001.The_Host
And then I got to about page 80 or so, and OH MY GOD THERE IT IS AGAIN, THE HORRIBLE HORRIBLE SAPPINESS OH MY EYES MY EYESI just can't do it.
Not the older man, and the younger woman, and the 5-page discussion of why they can't have sex yet because NO DEAR YOU'RE JUST NOT READY EVEN THOUGH YOU REALLY WANT IT BECAUSE LOOK, YOU'RE A GIRL AND YOU CAN'T POSSIBLY MAKE YOUR OWN DECISIONS.BUT JARED I LOOOOVE YOU!!
I DON'T KNOW, I JUST LOVE YOU!
I LOVE YOU TOO, MELANIE!
This is supposedly being marketed as an adult book, so maybe it’s a bit alienating to make your main character(s) 16 when she first meets Jared who was 26, then 17 when she was starting in a new body (which they thought was younger!) when Ian is in his mid-20’s (I am guessing).I’m just glad the romantic interests were not supposed to be seen as perfect.
I like that Wanderer picked up sarcasm from Mel. I love how absolutely confused she initially is by humans.
I must be a masochist. Why else would I pick this book up in the first place, let alone finish it? And it was so NOT worth it. To sum up my impressions of this story -  WAAAAAHHHHHHH!!!!! WHYYYYYYY???  * * This refers to the pointless waste of an entire tropical forest on the printing of this 600+ pager in which NOTHING happens. I kid you not. **** Well, what else did I expect from a woman who created sparkly virgin vampires??? Hanging my head in shame. ****** In my defense, here is the quote fr
Why else would I pick this book up in the first place, let alone finish it?
****** In my defense, here is the quote from this trainwreck book: "Perhaps without the lows, the highs could not be reached."  Maybe I expected the highs (just teeny-tiny highs) after Twilight the sparkly book I don't speak of?
It IS happening (unlike the book, in which nothing is).
Do anything else instead - like watching paint dry, which still would be more enjoyable.-------------------------------------------------------------------------Edited to add (in bewilderment): This "book" has a 3.86 rating on GR.
Was my copy of this book defective in any way?
Well, I would have finished it, but only to say, "I told you so."While I found a lot of similarity to the Twilight novels in her storytelling and in the details (over-protective older men, teenage girls, dramatic sappy dialogue, etc.) this was a much better story.
It still takes her a long time to get to her main points, but I wasn't as bored with this one in the beginning as I was with Twilight.I found the storyline fascinating: that aliens who invade other planets and take over the species, invade earth and take over the human bodies and then live as humans.
“It’s not the face, but the expressions on it.It’s not the voice, but what you say.It’s not how you look in that body, but the thing you do with it.You are beautiful.” I give this book 5 stars because is just such an amazing book. I really, really love it!At first sight it looks like it's a book about aliens, but in reality it's about the human kind and it's questioning how much humanity remains in us all. It's a book about survival, about love (so many types of love: loving yourself, loving t
I really, really love it!At first sight it looks like it's a book about aliens, but in reality it's about the human kind and it's questioning how much humanity remains in us all.
There is enough action to keep you reading, but the story is deeper than that, it's not about what the characters do but why they do that, it's not about whom they love but why they can't resist the feeling, it's not about what they say but about what they think.
This book is all about emotions, and reading about how the characters feel in every scene makes the story so real, so true...
I am told that this did not work too well in the movie, but as a book it makes great interesting reading.The story an alien invasion has happen we the humans have lost or have we?
As the story goes on we find this is happening more and more strong will Humans refuse to be giving the aliens' full control.Using or being led by Melanie, Wanderer finds possible the last outpost of pure Humans.
This is an intelligent different story, seen through the eyes of both Humans and aliens.
She writes emotion in a way that makes you feel everything the character feels.
Meyer writes love in a way that makes you love everything and everyone the character loves with a strong passion.
Stephenie Meyer is a queen of emotion; I don't think anyone can write it like she can.This was just so much better than Twilight, and that was so relieving.
While it would be nice to read the next one, I feel like The Host would be best as a stand-alone novel, and to make it into a series would just ruin it.
I wanted to like this book more than I did--to see that Stephenie Meyer can pick a topic not meant for shallow teenage girls and write on a deeper level--but I think this book is more of the same, sans the vampire excitement.
I liked the idea: an alien soul inhibiting the host body of a girl who doesn't want to relinquish her control and the conflicts that arise, particularly in romance.
So creative idea, but the delivery and details didn't quite hit the mark.(view spoiler)[What I did like in story development was the relationship between Ian and Wanda, how slowly and deeply it changed, until he could read and understand her better than she could and he could completely differentiate between the two souls.
When it comes to reading books that has a film made about it, I tend to watch the film first and then read the book.
The Host is probably one of my favorite films, I absolutely love Max Irons, I think he's gorgeous, and while I was watching the film, I also couldn't help but admire the actor who played Ian. I'm a huge fan of Stephenie Meyer, she's one of the authors that made me want to start writing, but I couldn't possibly be as skilled of a writer than she is.
When I read books, I love a heroine that's strong and a bad-ass.
Inserted into the back of a host body's skull, they take over a host's mind and motor functions to the point that the host's mind is completely subsumed: in effect, killing them.That is, until Earth, where the hosts fight back.Wanderer has lived full life cycles on nine other planets - a record among her kind - before taking a human host, a young woman called Melanie.
In short, if you enjoyed the Twilight series, you'll probably enjoy this because it means Meyer's style won't aggravate you; if, on the other hand, you didn't enjoy them, and you have bitched and moaned about her writing style like so many other people, I'd rather you didn't read The Host, not 'cause your criticisms will be wrong, but because you're missing the story.
Eventually, Wanderer falls in love with this man, too, through Melanie's memories and the two of them set out to find him.I don't usually read Science-fiction, and so maybe that's the reason I found this book so odd.
There were two in this book that were completely pointless, like she just wanted to write them.
There was always something I enjoyed about it, but there was just enough that was weird or not quite right about it that I can't say that I loved it.In conclusion: I don't know exactly what I think of this book.
Not to save five billion lives.”'The Host' is a hit or miss for readers, you either LOVE it or HATE it.
I'd pick The Host 100 times over the Twilight series any day!
I was slower at reading and didn't always know the right words.
So in turn, I hated reading.
The Host will always...always have a special place in my heart.
I have read this book 5 times if that's any indication.
This book has all the feels and it was such an emotional read for me.
The host was so unique, I haven't read anything like it since.
They wouldn't waste time and effort making junk food.”I give up.I just can’t do it.107 pages and nothing has happened.This book literally put me to sleep.
It was easy to read, fast, and relatively painless until you start looking at the deeper aspects.If I had picked up The Host in September of 2009 instead of Twilight, I probably wouldn't be reading yet.This book is fucking stupid.
So it pisses me the hell off when an established author wields such clout no one cares what the fuck she writes so long as she puts out another book *cough*Cassandra Clare*cough*.Sometimes inciting incidents are happening on the first page!
I just adore this book. I've read it once every 2-3 years and enjoyed it every time. This was no exception.  Body and soul. Two different things Wanderer is a parasite. Her people are parasites. For millions of years, they traveled to new planets, colonized the species and lived out lives in their hosts' bodies. It's about the experience and the journey. When Wanderer (the soul) arrives to Earth, she is placed in an adult female host. What she doesn't know, is that the host is still very much th
For millions of years, they traveled to new planets, colonized the species and lived out lives in their hosts' bodies.
When Wanderer (the soul) arrives to Earth, she is placed in an adult female host.
Was it...Because these humans hate with so much fury, was the other end of the spectrum that they could love with more heart and zeal and fire?
It's not how you look in that body, but the thing you do with it.
This is the first time I listened to it and this was a whole new experience.
I feel like the creativity level was a lot higher as Meyer was working with an alien species of her own creation and not necessarily the myths and legends of the vampires and werewolves.My only issue is that it seemed to drag on a bit at times.
I have seen some books designated YA and it seemed to be only because one of the main characters is a teenagers.
Other times, there are books where all the characters are adults that feel so YA it's not even funny!
I have to say, I have never had to put this much effort into reading a book in my life.
It took me 3 days to get through first 100 pages (to compare, it took me probably about 3 days to read Twilight, New Moon, and Eclipse).
You can literally read every 50th page and not miss anything!
In fact, it's hard to get attached to any character in this book!
This book is marketed as sci-fi/romance novel.
I think these people have never read actually good books.
In fact, I don't think they have ever read anything but Twilight before.
I know it is driving me to madness, and I only worked for English Professors.It has gotten to the point to where I may have to set this book aside and move on to something else before I can come back and finish it.
If I didn't have the policy of "no book left unread," I would toss it aside.
It read way too much like her Twilight series without a lot of complication.
However, I will end with this: who is the one getting books published?
I just know what I like to read.
5)'Emily Browning', who portrays Pet in this film, was Stephenie Meyer's original choice for the role of Bella Swan in Twilight, but she turned it down.Oh.My.God.Okay, Max Irons FTW but,WHYYY NOT IAN SOMERHALDER!??
Stephenie Meyer's novels throb with an overwhelming emotional intensity." - ATLANTA JOURNAL-CONSTITUTIONHere is the thing, whoever wrote this, was a really good human.
(I hate dystopian novels like anything, nowadays) The book would definitely be confusing for readers who haven't read books based on the future or soul before, at first, but then it becomes easy to understand and follow afterwards.
It clearly looked like she was writing this book for a movie.
یکی از همین افراد «ملانی» ست، که به تازگی کشته شده و آماده برای ورود روح به بدنش خویش است؛ «آواره» نام روحی ست که قرار است وارد بدن ملانی شود.
آواره یکی از معروفترین ارواح است که هشت زندگی داشته، اما ملانی حاضر نیست فکر و ذهن خویش را تسلیم آواره کند...؛ ا.
Melanie then shows her memories of Jared, her boyfriend and Jamie, her brother, and Wanda begins to realize that she slowly falls in love with those humans.
And even though she didn't like Melanie at the beginning, as can be said for Mel too, she starts loving Mel, and the other way around, until they became friends and sisters by souls.But, even if Melanie spammed her mind with Jared and Jamie, she can't really know how she feels.
He believed in Wanda, he saw her as she is, he liked her from the beginning and he was kind to her.Kyle, Ian's brother, got on my nerves so many times, but in the end, i loved him too.
Unfortunately, the thing that drives me to write today is the poorly written book known as The Host, by none other than Stephenie "Sparkling Vampires" Meyer.    Now, I went into this book with lukewarm expectations. Many people have said that The Host is actually better written than The Twilight "Saga", which isn't really saying much if you really look at it.   However, I held in my bias and decided to give it a try, besides after Sparkling Vampires how much worse can it possibly get? Good Lord
But lemme get right to the romances, which, really are the plot of this story and the only thing complex for some reason.Ian, who is one of the blandest love interests I've ever read, just keeps going on about how sweet and pure Wanda is constantly.
I was already irritated because the way the story was being set up was that we (the human readers) are supposed to be rooting for the body-snatching, world cleansing aliens because they are "good" and we are supposed to be seeing the human resistance as bad because humanity (as presented in this book) is incapable of respecting and taking good care of our beautiful planet.
I still l♡ve this one ☺ Wanda is so self-sacrificing, and the way everybody hates her and grows to love her is inspiring ☺Totally prefer the book to the movie though ☺
The alien who calls herself Wanderer has lived nine different lives on nine different planets as nine different sentient species… Awesome sci-fi stuff.I really wanted to like this.
Wanderer's new host on Earth is named Melanie.
Instead, it’s a bloated 600+ filler/padded book with a lot of not-much going on and a bit of awesome plot.There is some good world-building, however, WAY too much of Melanie baking bread and doing chores with the humans, and I think I know why all that was added in.
I loved Twilight, but not even those books needed to be so freaking long.
I actually loved Wanderer (no I will not call her Wanda.
Full disclosure: I was not a big Twilight fan. I read all the books, I found them ok and compared to many YA titles coming out nowadays, they were actually decently written.*But The Host is on a whole other level. It is a freaking GOOD book! Good characters, great plot, nice world building ladaladalada. *Sorry for being short today, but I am kind of on the run. Either way, what I wanted to say is that even if you disliked Twilight, don't give up on The Host. It is worth it!
For Wanderer, this didn’t happen.Since the only humans left are ones that are rebels, placing a new “soul” into an adult has become risky.
A Seeker has been assigned to Wanderer in order to get information about the human rebels that worked with Melanie.
Eventually, in a weakened state, Melanie allows something to slip through the wall she has constructed to keep Wanderer away from the people she loves.
He is friend and protector and begins to have feelings for her and her alone (not Melanie since he didn’t know her prior to the invasion).The story ends on a note of hope.
I have to say I was not expecting this book to be as good as it was!Even though the first 150 pages or so are slightly slow the rest of the book is fast paced and becomes a very interesting read.Would defiantly recommend this book to anyone who is even slightly interested in it!
Edited after seeing the movie:I went with my daughters to see the movie adaptation of The Host this evening, and was reminded of how much I loved this book.
That said, it's as it was with the Twilight books-to-movie adaptation and the movies didn't do the books justice, and neither did it for The Host, which is one of my favorite stories.
If you go see it and find the story compelling but the acting not so much, please pick up the book and read it.
-----------Original Review:Another fabulous story by Stephenie Meyer.
First read: May 26th through June 8th 2013Second read: March 2016 (didn't keep track)Third read: July 9th through July 15th 2016I gotta say, Ian O'Shea is still too adorable.
Maybe someday I can finish this poor excuse for a novel, but I'm going to relieve myself of the misery for now.
Not to mention that Melanie Stryder, (i mean, Bella Swan...) is essentially the same pathetic female character that we've seen in the Twilight series.
It's tragic that a person so gifted with plot construction is singularly unable to portray gratifying or realistic characters with any thread of substance.
Still, there's an icky stickly something that still bothers me about the way Mrs. Meyers writes...the logic that all her characters utilize seems flawed in some fundamental way.
Voy a conservar la calificación original por nostalgia, pero sí noté ciertas cosas en esta ultima releída:- El estilo de escritura no es tan bueno como recordaba lol- Le pudieron haber cortado unas 100 a 200 paginas sin ningún problema- El romance es casi instalove (pero aún así amo las parejitas <3)Aun así puedo decir que es de mis favs de Stephenie Meyer y lo seguiré amando hasta la eternidad <333.
