https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3389671-jessica-s-guide-to-dating-on-the-dark-side
“The undead can really screw up your senior year...” I was thinking more a more fluffy, funny, entertaining, just generally a cute novel.
when I started this novel and read about the first ten pages...
Jessica’s character is adopted but, she never fully accepts that part of her life, but you see that change throughout the novel, it is a very powerful thing.
You witness the change in his letters, and that’s what made the love story for me.
While the ending of the novel is satisfying ( I believe it is a stand alone novel, but I hope I’m wrong), I would love to see a continuation of this story.
Lucius uncovers a plot on Jessica's life and attempts to save her life by weilding the only weapon he knows...[image error]By becoming an emo...Okay, so I'm being facetious.
Lucius' personal growth and character development, until Emo!Lucius, is actually fascinating and complex.This book is long with a plot that possibly could have been cut down but it was also pleasant to see how time in America was affecting pompous, stuffy Lucius and how he, in turn, was affecting Jessica.Her personal growth was to discover through dressing well, that she is a powerful, attractive woman.
As the saying goes “when in Rome”, and that’s exactly what Lucius does, and he does it in style and he ruffles a few feathers.I must say even through my disappointment I was very surprised by this book, this is no teenage fluff and it is quite intense.
Low point number 2 Jessica; I found her annoying and like 12, only wants things when other people get it.
Low point number 3, town folks correction town teenagers so supremely ridiculi.Otherwise, I liked it but only for Lucius he lit my fire and I would marry him in heartbeat.
I liked the vampire lore here: yes, even the biting.
I guess I just hate characters like Lucius, because I was not impressed by his actions one bit, and so I kind of wondered what exactly it was that Jessica saw in him.
So as a reader, I'm supposed to like and connect to Lucius because he wants to keep Jessica safe, so he accomplishes this by screwing around with someone else?
And so it seemed like Jessica all of the sudden decided she was in love with Lucius because...why?
I guess I like my boys unspoiled.
Enjoyed this vampire romance. Jessica's teen emotions were more realistic than Bella's.
Σε αυτό το βιβλίο οι χαρακτήρες δεν είναι τέλειοι, είναι σχεδόν ελαττωματικοί, κ αυτό ακριβώς είναι το σημείο που τους κάνει τόσο απολαυστικούς!!! Δεν θυμίζει τόσο τα υπόλοιπα Y.A. φαντασίας. Έχει μια σκωπτική διάθεση, μια σκανδαλιά που κάνει την ανάγνωση του πολύ ευχάριστη.
Until he's nearly killed by a horse and then starts dating cheerleeder-blonde-bitch extraordinaire, Faith Crosse, Jessica thought she could get rid of him and be happy settling for "nice" and simple Jake; now the pact is being threatened by Lucius himself, who no longer seems to want her, just as she discovers how much she wants to be a part of his world.It's a fairly obvious thing to point out that this book is aimed at all the teen Twilight fans out there.
There are dozens of vampire books on the market right now but I am confident this is one of the better ones, the one that stands out.
I don’t want to summarize the book’s plot here because so many people have already done so.
You definitely have to read this book just to enjoy Lucius’ letters to his uncle Vasile which are a special treat.
I highly recommend this book and I will definitely check out what Beth Fantaskey writes next.
She's smart, she's capable and she's unknowingly betrothed to Lucius due to her being a vampire princess!Lucius is an intense, righteous and darkly handsome Romanian (more Mr Darcy than Edward)who has come to America to convince Jessica that they should marry and reunite their warring vampiric families.
I loved the new take on vampirism, particular the guide book that Lucius presents to his betrothed.
The necessity of the alternating perspectives make this intense, hilarious and moving as we are able to identify both individual's motivations.I loved these characters, I hope we see more of them.
I think that "Twilight" is the greatest piece of crappy fan fiction style writing to get published since "Eragon".The only vampire book I've really enjoyed until now is Sucks to Be Me The All-True Confessions of Mina Hamilton, Teen Vampire, which makes fun of the conventions of the genre.But this one is worth reading.
Jessica's narrative is interspersed with Lucius's hilarious letters to his Uncle back in the old country, and his take on 21st century American culture should make anyone laugh out loud.Though it appears frothy at first, the drama of the plot deepens and intensifies as it draws towards the climax.
Jessica is your typical 17-year-old--that is until her adoptive parents inform her she's a Romanian vampire princess who must fulfill a pact her birth parents had signed before their death by marrying Lucius, a vampire prince from an enemy clan.I thought the whole trying-to-get-Jessica-to-believe-that-vampires-really-do-exist-and-Lucius-is-not-an-escapee-from-an-insane-asylum-thing was freaking hilarious!!Watching Jessica slowly-and somewhat incredulously-accept her vampiric nature and Lucius's love for her was exciting; it made me realize how much I missed vampire novels and the arrogant nature of vampires.If you're a vampire fan, don't miss this one.
To me this was a different take on the vampire story Jessica early on finds out Lucius is a prince vampire and she is a destined to be a princess vampire, how they deal and feel about that knowledge is what makes this story.
I loved Lucius, I love that whole old world chivalry, cloths and good manners, which is totally Lucius in a vampire kind of way.
A quote or two that I loved provided by Lucius, "Jessica, he said.
I love this quote to by Lucius, "American women.
Jessica, is great in this story as well, she is a typical teenager trying to figure out her world, which continues to change and becomes more and more complicated.
Jessica's Guide to Dating on the Dark SideThe title had long since convinced me that this was yet another YA paranormal that was hell bent on holding up a public mockery in the name of the genre "Fantasy".
We've got happening European exchange students, we've got beautiful/smart/spunky heroines, we've got meanace in the form of blonde horse-riding cheerleaders, we've got vampires, we've got fights, we've got romance, we've got sarcasm and we've got thrill.
You know, you really don't want me describing him, cause when you actually pick this book up, you're gonna want to know all about him without any outside hints.
It's not just a flat parody but a complex story in its own right by (gasp) a good writer (with a name like Fantaskey, how can you grow up to be anything but a fantasy writer?).
Because really, what normal teenager with a brain (and this one actually has one) is going to run into the arms of a monster who means her harm?
And really what hormonal teenage vampire isn't going to mean a little harm?
He is the star of this story.
If you're as sick of YA paranormal as I have been, you may actually enjoy this one for that very reason.
I wanted so badly to like this book since I have a thing for Romanian vampires but I just couldn't no matter how hard I tried.My worst issues with this book were the two main characters--or rather three because I think Jessica/Anastassia experienced some sort of personality split during the course of this book.
*bangs head against desk* All the while, Jessica/Anastassia is loving him saying she “knows him” just because she lusts for him.
I need to go lie down next to an Austen novel to hopefully even out the negative book energy “Jessica's Guide to Dating on the Dark Side” left me with.
For the last month all I've read is New Adult and Erotica. So I knew by reading a YA novel that I wouldn't be completely satisfied with the romantic aspect of the story. The odds were against it from the beginning. I have no qualms with the plot of Jessica #1. (Sorry, the title is so long that Jessica #1 seems like a good substitute.) Everything was in place: drama, flirting, vampires, and an evil blonde bitch. It had everything worthy of a Twilight successor.  Lucius and Jessica have been promi
For the last month all I've read is New Adult and Erotica.
(Sorry, the title is so long that Jessica #1 seems like a good substitute.) Everything was in place: drama, flirting, vampires, and an evil blonde bitch.
Lucius and Jessica have been promised to each other since birth to keep the vampire peace in Romania.
I'd been waiting 250+ pages to read about Lucius biting Jessica, and in return Jessica getting her fangs.
(I already mentioned I've been reading nothing but New Adult and Erotica for the last month, right?
Debut author Beth Fantaskey explodes onto the heavily populated YA vampire lit world with her amazing book, JESSICA’S GUIDE TO DATING ON THE DARK SIDE, which is sure to convert Twilight fans into having a new favorite vampire and vampire-novel heroine.
The plot goes beyond a typical Twilight spinoff (which all current YA vampire novels are inevitably being compared to), and reaches its awe-inspiring conclusion wonderfully.Action, love, mortal danger, family, humor—JESSICA’S GUIDE TO DATING ON THE DARK SIDE has everything.
This book, just like Boys that Bite, I only read because it was one of the oldest books in my TBR.However different from the BTB, I didn't hate this book and would probably have enjoyed it when I was a new reader.  Jessica lives just a normal teenage life.She is an only child, has only one friend, she get's bullied by the popular kids in school and she has two weird parents whom she loves.But Jessica has also a secret. A secret no one other then her parents and best friend knows.Even Jessica her
Jessica lives just a normal teenage life.She is an only child, has only one friend, she get's bullied by the popular kids in school and she has two weird parents whom she loves.But Jessica has also a secret.
Not only that but he also claims he is a Vampire.Jessica refuses to be married agains her will, to someone she doesn't even know and more of all she doesn't even belive in Vampires no matter what the stranger or her parents say.So Lucius Vladescu enters her life and is determent to stay until she changes her mind.Meanwhile no matter how hard Jessica tries not to, she finds herself falling for Lucius.
I think that of all the books I've read this year, Jessica's Guide to Dating on the Dark Side, is the one that has surprised me the most.
[In my defense everything about it on the outside is horrible though it is really upsetting]When Jessica Packwood meets a mysterious boy, named Lucius Valdescu, staring at her at a bus stop, she is very much freaked out by him.
However, when he is invited into her home and reveals to Jessica that she is a royal member of a vampire family and he is to be her betrothed, she stabs him with a pitchfork and runs away from him.
Ammetto che le prime pagine non mi avevano preso, mi sembrava un romanzo troppo per ragazzine.
Ho cominciato a trovare nella figura di Lucius, il principe vampiro, un non so che di tragico e affascinante che mi ha conquistata,come ha conquistato il cuore di Antanasia, una figura femminile simpatica, normale, con un mondo nuovo da scoprire.
E vuole Lucius, vuole la favola dark.
Non sarà uno di quei libri che rimarrà indelebile nel cuore del lettore, ma di sicuro lo scalda come una coperta,lo coccola in una giornata storta.E fa sognare, proprio come una favola.

This was a real treat. Funny and humorous in the beginning then it went all dark and twisty by the end. I love that its primary focus is on Jessica finally owning up to her strong beautiful fierce self and realizing it. I also like the whole vampire war plot going on and can't wait to find out what happens in the sequel.
I gave it about 100 pages before quitting. That seems fair enough.Again, one of those book where nothing is wrong with it, it's just not for me/I'm not in the mood for this kind of story. But I gave it a chance!
A boy that slights her again and again and again until the very last pages of the book (when I say very I mean the VERY last pages).So the message becomes mixed, hypocritical really, because first our character is like "oh, I am beautiful and independent.
Inconsistent (and bad) FocusFirst we are dealing with Jessica and Lucius pursuing Jess to get this logical, smart girl to believe in the supernatural and embrace her true nature as the beautiful vampire princess.
Instead, the focus shifts onto Lucius, angst-ridden teenage boy that neglects Jessica (forget her, she doesn't want me though we can save the vampire world together...anyways guess I will move on!) for a popular girl at the high school.
The biggest thing that peeved me was that Jessica's love of "rational thinking" was used as a plot device to make her not believe that Lucius was a vampire until the moment Fantaskey needed her to.
It would have been better, perhaps, if they didn't tell her because, in today's society, no one believes in vampires, but instead, the "Jessica has a rational mind" idea is given to the reader over and over to try to write off her disbelief.I also have reservations about the way female vampires develop their fangs in Fantaskey's world.
The author committed character assassination to the max with her love interest on the second half of the book.
Altho that was kind of contrived too since in the begging in the book they were really no hints of him being a murderous and ruthless vampire like his uncle.
The romance was kind of contrived since Jess went from not wanting nothing to deal with him to falling in love with him cause he got hurt and the chick she couldn't stand started to liked him.
The author also committed the " tell don't show" crime to the fight degree.
great idea for a story as a whole, however the middle just rubbed me the wrong way.
The ending felt rushed and seemed to clear things up way to easy and fast.
I get books with angst.
I think angst fits into things and stories as its part of peoples personalities; however...
I could somewhat understand the ending, just not how rushed it seemed.
All in all the entire book wasn't bad, I guess I can understand all the angst; it just was a bit....
Maybe it was my mood or the timing of reading this book.
What was this book about?I'm serious, I borrowed this from the library because it looked cool and I couldn't even read half of it. So, I ask again. What was this book about? I read the first page and was not hooked, but I still kept reading because it had such a cool blurb and the cover was pretty cool too. I normally remember slivers of books, if not all of them. I could remember absolutely nothing when it comes to this book. So I ask again.What was this book about?
This book was hilarious!Jessica's Guide to Dating on the Dark Side was a pretty good book.
Lucius and Jessica were a cute couple.
When they were first getting to know each other I laughed when Jessica doubted him being a vampire.
Then when she finally realized he wasn't lying or on drugs about the whole thing was hilarious.
However, she took way too long to come to this realization.
Jessica in the beginning was kind of unlikable.
Besides Jessica, I loved Lucius.
Then there was the whole vampire thing with Lucius.
They were cute together but I liked Lucius a lot more when Jessica wasn't around.
This wasn't the best vampire novel I've ever read, but it also wasn't the worst.
It was clever and funny at times but also full of angst and teenage drama in equal measure.
But I did enjoy that while the narrative was from Jessica's perspective, we got to see a different side of Lucius through his letters back home to his uncle reporting on his progress.
I had planned on reading the sequel, but I downloaded it right after finishing this book, and it's told from several different points of views -- most of which I don't care about -- and I just can't.
