https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/197170.Only_Yesterday
לפני זמן מה מצאתי בבית הורי את הספרון הישן ממנו למדתי בתיכון את סיפורו של ש"י עגנון "והיה העקוב למישור".
הספר "תמול שלשום", גם אם הוא כתוב בעגנונית ומרבה לצטט מן המקורות, הוא קריא לחלוטין (טוב לי לפחות הוא היה קריא).
עגנון אולי בורא שפה משלו, השונה מהעברית המדוברת היום, אבל קל לתרגם אותה ולהסתגל אליה ומעל לכל היא מדוייקת ועשירה מאוד ובכך מפליאה לצייר את המאורעות ואת תהפוכות הנפש של הגיבורים.
אבל הדבר אינו פוגם בקריאה.
גם לציטוטים ביידיש עגנון לרוב מוסיף תרגום משלו בגוף הסיפור.הרומן עצמו יפה.
טוב, עגנון גם נוטה לחזרתיות מסויימת.
לפעמים אתה אומר לעצמך "טוב הלאה, הבנתי".
אבל סך הכל העסק זורם, וכן מהנה.
Writer Alon Hilu has chosen to discuss S Y Agnon's Only Yesterday, on FiveBooks as one of the top five on his subject - Israel and Palestine in Art, saying that: "Shmuel Agnon is the only Israeli writer who has won the Nobel Prize for Literature.
He is still regarded as the best writer in modern Hebrew literature.
This book takes place in Jaffa between the end of the 19th century and the start of the First World War. I read it three times to get the atmosphere and spirit of the place at that time" The full interview is available here: http://www.five-books.com/books/interviews/alon-hilu
This is probably the most accessible Agnon novel that I've read. In some ways I found it less affecting than Guest for the Night because I'm living in exile outside Israel rather than living in exile inside Israel, but when read together, they beautifully bookend the predicament of being a Jew. Whether to make Aliyah or not, and the impossibility of escaping exile in either case. It is, however, ironic that in Agnon's books, exile is heavily tinged with the misery of poverty, while today, our exile is tinged with the misery of excessive wealth.
It’s a novel about the early waves of modern Jewish settlers to Palestine at the start of the twentieth century, and although nearly all the action takes place in the Middle East, in many ways it’s a story of eastern and central Europe.
At the very least, the reality is unlikely to be exactly what they expected.One of my reasons for reading it was that I was interested in a book set during that early history of modern Israel.
But it’s not a history book, and like all(?) good novels what makes it work is an interest in people, not in ideas.
Ma anche con l'impietosità di un vecchio disincantato che sa che le risposte, quelle che mettono pace sono poche.Con un fraseggio elementare, ricco di ripetizioni, con un discorso diretto inframmezzato a pensieri e a sogni, in modo che tutto si confonda - come nella vita reale spesso accade-, Agnon descrive, senza pietà, ma con molta pietas, la vita di quanti, come lui, salirono nella Terra guidati da un sogno e nella terra vissero i loro più terribili incubi.Protagonisti assoluti, ma non solitari, sono Isacco Kumer e un cane, Balac (che, letto al contrario, calab, in ebraico significa, appunto cane), e l'incontro che cambia la loro vita e quella di molte altre persone, in un intreccio impensabile e impensato, ma così comune, nella vita comune.Si è fatto leggere lentamente, questo testo.
A remarkable book. Written in a kind of casual inviting tone, slyly humorous, gently mocking and self-deprecating. In some ways a history--but in a very offbeat way--of the lives of young Zionists in Israel in the years just before World War I. Arguably a Modernist masterwork, arguably a sui generis masterwork. Sometimes Biblical in its rhythms, sometimes reminiscent of the classical epic.
* * *As for my interpretation of the book, I think one way of looking at it is that the story of the protagonist, Isaac Kumer (a young man who left his home and family in Galicia, in the Austro-Hungarian Empire, to go to Palestine) is played out in the historical realm of the book, while the story of Balak the dog (the second main character) is simultaneously played out in parable form in the existential realm of the book, and in the end the two realms forcefully collide and explode their contents into the realm of the here and now reality, not only the reality within the book, or Palestine at the time, or Israel now, but even the reality of every individual reader whenever and where-ever they're reading the book.
They’re referred to in other places, but so scantily that I can only conclude that they did not figure largely in the day to day life at that time of either Agnon himself, or those contemporaries of the period that he is portraying.] – Isaac stumbles on another way to earn a living as a painter.
I include it as it is of some interest considering the publisher's choice and that it seems to express with great subtlety something of the story itself:An Arab of Sudanese descent sits facing the sea while a Jewish pioneer stands beside him.
Isaac’s father makes this sacrifice to get Isaac out of the way so that he will no longer be a bad influence on his younger brother.Once Isaac gets to Palestine, he finds that most Jewish farmers would rather hire Arab laborers than young Jews so that making a living tilling the soil is almost impossible.
Kook viewed the secular Zionist pioneers as containing within them the sparks of holiness that would ultimately lead to the revitalization of the Jewish people as a religious community.
Although Agnon’s lead character finds his way back to Jewish tradition, Agnon aims sharp satiric daggers at the Jerusalem religious community of that time.
The entire story was quite detailed, as we first dove into daily affairs of Isaac's Zionist life in Jaffa, and then his religious life in Jerusalem--over 600 pages total.
The ultimate message, though, is that no dream, when actually lived out, is really that simple.Tacked on top of all of that is Agnon's modernist/folklorist conceit of Isaac's fateful encounters with the dog, Balak, who then takes charge of some chapters, and is generally the voice of exile from the Jewish people--Diaspora, essentially.
This book is surely a tough choice if it’s a required reading for your book analysis paper by your literature professor for the finals!Second, the change of tone and style of writing about the “Balak, the Dog” chapters are stunning- surrealistic, philosophical, mythic.
The character of Isaac Kumer, considering all the other books I’ve ever read, is the most human- exposes us from our desires and weaknesses, idleness and failures, pride and love, loneliness and memory- the things we hide and deny even from the deepest recesses of our consciousness..
As issues in Israel always are sizzling I was curious to explore this novel about an early Kibbutz pioneer during a time when Zionist ideology was fresh and liberating.
Set in the early 1900s, Isaac starts in Galicia, Ukraine surrounded by Zionists and anti-Zionists, many discussing the advantages and dangers of leaving Ukraine and immigrating to Israel.
In Israel he finds Socialist-Zionists in Jaffa at Petach Tikva, an early kibbutz, and he find religious Zionists in Jeruselam.
The most compelling piece of the novel was a parallel story about Balak a dog who also drifts around Israel.
Given the constant debate and controversy surrounding Israel Balak the dog is a very salient symbol.
Jeopardy time.Writers for $400, Alex.Answer: The only Israeli to win the Nobel Prize for Literature.Who is Amos Oz?Wrong.
He won a Nobel, but he certainly wasn't Israeli.If you answered, Who is S.Y. Agnon?, you were correct.As a lover of literature and a lover of Israel, I felt compelled to tackle Agnon's opus "Only Yesterday." And I'm glad I did, even if there were long passages in which I felt something must have been lost in translation.There were three aspects of "Only Yesterday" that made an impression on me.One, Agnon, despite the simplicity of his prose, does a masterful yet unsentimental job painting the fascinating scenes of early 20th Century, pre-state Israel.
Anyone with an interest in contemporary Israeli politics should read this epic novel by the Nobel Prize winning author, SY Agnon, despite the fact that it's set a hundred years ago, before the state was formed.
Most of the tension of the book is centered around the conflict between secular Jaffa and religious Jerusalem.
It's plain that the author's sympathies lie with Jaffa, but the tension pretty well prefigures modern Isralei tensions between the western looking secularists and a stubborn, parasitic orthodoxy.Halfway through, the narrative is suddenly distracted by a stray dog upon which the main character has painted the words "mad dog".
I thought to give Agnon a chance.
I didn't like his stories that we learned at high school, so long ago, but high school duties are not a fair judgment, right?Well, the book was reasonably good.
The historic & cultural background were wonderfully described.
The characters well developed.
His Hebrew is delicious.
The history described - Jewish immigration to Israel at the beginning of 1900 - is fascinating.But, and it's a big but - the overall story is long and boring at too many parts.
Now I understand why I didn't like him at high school.
May read, not a must.
Заинтересовалась этой книгой после экскурсии по Неве-Цедеку, захотелось узнать больше о Тель-Авиве и истории его становления. О людях, их жизни в то время. В книге действительно об этом очень много и интересно написано, с подробностями. И про Иерусалим ещё, про другие города меньше. Сам сюжет немножко затянут и не слишком интересен, особенно ближе к концу, когда слишком много времени посвящается собаке. Последние главы о собаке вообще пришлось пропустить, не выдержала уже :)
Except for the last section, which follows the peregrinations of a dog ad nauseum (although still brilliant), the novel is close to perfect.The novel is not about plot or even character, although there is a hero of sorts (other than the dog, whos more symbol than character), a young immigrant to Israel from Poland who stumbles into orthodoxy (and, of course, a woman). The translation of this difficult novel is fantastic.
Except for the last section, which follows the peregrinations of a dog ad nauseum (although still brilliant), the novel is close to perfect.The novel is not about plot or even character, although there is a hero of sorts (other than the dog, who̕s more symbol than character), a young immigrant to Israel from Poland who stumbles into orthodoxy (and, of course, a woman). The translation of this difficult novel is fantastic.
The story of a young Jewish man's participation in the 2nd 'Aliya' or migration from Poland to Palestine (today's Israel) in the early 1900's. A long, somewhat wandering epic. After the first couple hundred pages, I thought, this is really good, it's going to be a Jewish "War and Peace". It then almost completely bogged down. The translation from the Hebrew was very literal and may have caused some of the slow going. Still, an informative tale of the Jewish people.
Israeli Nobel laureate S.Y. Agnon's 600 page tome is one that I would like to re-read. It pertains to what is called the second "Aliya," Zionists that came to Palestine during the period between 1904 and 1914. The only scene I remember is when the local stray dog had the label "Crazy Dog" painted on its back. This caused quite a stir as it roamed around town. I'm sure Agnon used this to symbolize the struggle for those who live in exile.
I would like and online book group to talk about this book. I love it but it's slow going.
