https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34871.The_Complete_Clive_Barker_s_The_Great_And_Secret_Show
Fletcher knows that he cannot allow Jaffe to gain access to the Art, to Quididdty; otherwise, it could mean the end of the world, and dreams, as we know it…What Barker does here is create myth and he does so beautifully.
It’s a difficult thing to create an epic myth from the ground up, but Barker does so in “The Great and Secret Show” with such skill and mastery that you know he has a gift.
It’s a good thing he does – there is a cast of hundreds here and we get to know almost all of them through out “The Great and Secret Show”.
Here's all I have to say about the graphic novel adaptation of The Great and Secret Show: If I ever take a book with those rich descriptions and that brilliant control over narrative atmosphere and form and grotesquerie, and I turn it into this, I want someone to dump me in a ditch. There's artistic interpretation, and there's stripping all the chrome and paint off of a beautiful car. This is sadly the latter.
Barkerov horor je jedinstven i prepoznatljiv. Ovo je super i kul priča sa super artom Gabriela Rodrigueza kojeg se nadam da ću što prije ponovno gledati čitajući Locke&Key, kada ga se dočepam.
ABSOLUTELY CAPTIVATIVATING!!!
The plot of this graphic novel takes place for the most part in "Palomo Grove," and involves an attempt by a malign force to break down the barrier between our reality and what the characters refer to as "Quiddity," a dream sea with the island "Ephemeris" in the middle.
Having not read the novel, I'm not sure how the ending goes.
To be honest, though, I didn't really understand what happened at the end of the book or why the good guys were able to forestall the inevitable tide of extra-dimensional beings upon their existential plane.
CLIVE BARKER’S THE GREAT AND SECRET SHOW, VOLUME 1 BY CHRIS RYALL AND GABRIEL RODRIGUEZ: It’s always interesting to see how graphic novel adaptations of complex and long books are going to turn out.
Along with a brilliantly written script that manages to condense a six hundred page book, or three hundred in this case, into this slim graphic novel.Clive Barker’s The Great and Secret Show is perfect for the fan of the book looking to see it done in a whole new way, as well as those not sure if they want to tackle a long dense book, and looking for a Cliffnotes version.
He leído poco a Clive Barker y The Great and Secret Show, menos aún.
Así que la comparación de la novela con la novela gráfica de Chris Ryall y Gabriel Rodríguez se me escapa.
Mi problema con esta versión es el dibujo de Gabriel Rodríguez, magníficos, por supuesto, pero demasiado parecidos a su trabajo en la fenomenal "Lock and Key" con Joe Hill.
De hecho, son casi calcados en muchos momentos.
No es que sea malo en sí, pero no he podido evitar ver todo como una especie de spin-off (algo más sangriento, pero no mucho más).
This was a decent adaptation of Barker's sprawling novel.
The problem with adapting anything the size of THE GREAT AND SECRET SHOW is that you can't include everything.
Some of the cracks show pretty large, despite Ryall's best efforts.
There are many places where you can see events have been compressed to stay within twelve issues.
Perhaps an approach similar to what Marvel is taking with Stephen King's THE STAND would have been more appropriate.
That being said, this adaptation captures the tone and feel of the source material, and Rodriguez's art is fantastic.
Definitely worth picking up for Barker fans.
I haven't read the novel that this is adapted from, so am in no position to make comparisons, but once I started reading this one I had to keep going. Clive Barker has such a bizarre and twisted imagination and creates such astonishing worlds, I can fully understand why people would want to create graphic adaptations of them. The artists have crated wonderful imagery to portray this fascinating tale. It's just a shame I'll have to wait for the library to order in a copy of volume two.
I absolutely loved this, the latter portion moved a bit quick but didnt hurt story as a whole.. Sad to say I haven't read the entire novel this is based from, but this rendition was superb. Being that the last gn rendition of clive barker was the thief of always, which was a terrible take on an incredible book, this made up for it ten fold. Highly recommend to comic people who like a complex ontos and don't mind a lot of verbal reading.
This is one of my favourite books of all time.I'm unable to tell you why but it was always so freaky, mysterious..It's a great mix of horror, fantasy, romance and kind of a psychological story about different people from various societies and their needs that come out in pretty creepy variations.
This is easily one of my favourite books, so bare with me a bit.What happens to lost mail? Where does it go?Who finds it?Well, Barker's "Secret Show" delves into so simple a notion and unravels a system of adventure second to none. This is a gritty, fun, well paced tale of the small becoming large.
This mostly made me want to read the actual book, because I felt like a lot of stuff must be getting glossed over. It's all right, and I'll probably check out the next installment from the library when they get it, but something about the way the artist draws eyes really annoyed me.
ok so far. Clive is a great writer, yet sometimes drags a bit. the art is ok, nothing to write home about.
Pretty good, not amazing, but pretty good.
Update, Hoopla finally allowed me to download the entire book. Pretty good...2015 Stupid Hoopla app isn't letting me past the first grouping...
Loved this book.
I had to buy the second volume.
Everyone should read this. For adults.
This probably suffered from being read in close proximity to the source novel.
It was like reading Cliff Notes.
The last two chapters in particular were rushed and muddled, and there were several places where a character's actions only made sense if you could fill in what was excised from the story.
And of course they all have the ridiculous round boobs highlighted by tight, low-cut tops, even if it made no sense for the character (such as modest, religious Jo-Beth).
It's hard to summarize graphic novels of great books, but this took off a bit more quickly than the original novel (which was outstanding), which took its time. In a strange way, the graphic novel was much more straight-forward, which cost some of the unsettling factor about the original. Some of Clive Barker's darkness is difficult to quantify in graphic novel format, but this does as good a job as you could hope for.
I’m not much of a graphic novel reader, so this was a somewhat new experience for me. I enjoyed the story and the art, but as a person that enjoys the “meatiness” of a well-written novel, I found myself wanting more detail. I think that Barker’s original story is so complex, I would rather read it in its original form.
I would recommend reading this comic before reading the Everville novel (Book 2 of the Art). The first Book of the Art isn't great in my opinion, but Everville is one of Barker's best, from what I remember.
Gabriel Rodriguez was simply an amazing artist, he brought all the characters to life. This adaptation was much better than Barker's original novel, in terms of clarity and visualization of his confusing world building. If you don't have time to finish the original novel, just give this a go.
Carino ma non all'altezza delle aspettative. Sarei tentato di leggere il volume 2 ma non mi ha catturato poi così tanto come avrebbe potuto il libro originale.
The history is very good.
very good book, I like it
I love Clive Barker, but had a hard time following this book. I gave it nearly 4 hours and give up. :-(
A wonderful history where master-imaginist Barker again pulls out the complete show to let us know that the universe can be stranger than we thought.
I love the art of Gabriel Rodríguez. Nobody draws creepy bad guys better. The story is great although the characters come through a bit flat.
