https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20980987-the-art-of-asking-or-how-i-learned-to-stop-worrying-and-let-people-hel
I remember waiting in an autograph line with a friend after a Dolls show -- a line just like the ones she describes in The Art of Asking, with amazing people on either side of us, chatting about music and cheerfully clutching CDs to our chest.
I can see uber-fans ravenously praising this book, which basically amounts to a series of anecdotes, as honest, genuine, brilliant, touching, revolutionary.I do think it's honest -- though any other of those qualifiers'd be a heavy stretch.Palmer is not a good writer, let's just please agree on that.
Do I feel like I got to know Amanda Palmer better?
Where since we were little, since that moment when we gave away all our toys to that neighbor kid and when our parents scolded us and told us, “You don’t just give your things away like that when someone asks!” Or when we asked someone for that candy and were told, “No, that’s mine.
We can’t live without help.
And it’s bare, this story.
Holding this book you’re holding Amanda, bare, because she trusts you, the reader, to see her.
It’s all what life is.
And perhaps you will ask people in your life for things you were always afraid to ask for.
Anyone who is an artist sharing any of their work online should read this. It took me a few times to get into it, but if you stick with it, you'll fall into Amanda's powerful story and insights. I'm really glad that I read this, and I think reading it right after graduating was the perfect moment to take in her story. I'm honestly going to miss listening to Amanda's voice speaking wisdom to me. (I listened to the audiobook and it was excellent.)
We don't know how to do it, don't feel comfortable with it and it prevents people from making the art that they were born to make.You can get that part of this book by watching Palmer's TED talk.
(If you're surprised by this, I am willing to bet you've never heard of Amanda Palmer before.) The Art of Asking was roughly conceived as a longer-form version of Palmer's wildly successful TED talk.
Certainly, the book examines Palmer's successes (and occasional failures) in asking for and receiving help of all sorts by, essentially, believing it will work.
Often, Palmer believes, people want to help, as long as they feel like they're part of something - and she is very good at building community.
While Amanda has a few decent points, which are easy enough to grasp within the span of the first chapter.
When this book isn't Amanda bragging about how she has asked people for things and returned the favor with her majestic presence (i.e.
"I asked people on twitter if I could stay at their house, and in return they got to hang out with me") it is indignant narcissistic drivel about being treated poorly by her label.
If it's not that it's delilah-esque sentimentalism, saying things like "I loved the old Japanese man who stared at me for hours".
Please, you love money.
The Dresden Dolls was never really my jam; when she ended up on my radar it was because she married Neil Gaiman -- of whom I definitely *am* a fan, and whose blog and Twitter I've followed for years and years.The vast majority of what I know about her is what I've learned through the words of a fantastic writer who loves her.
She's emotional, self-absorbed, confrontational.For better or for worse, AFP is indeed a Personality.
The radical notion that authentic human connection is more valuable than money.In the end I do want to like her.
Anything else was just noise.When AFP first started blogging about THE ART OF ASKING, I was uber-excited for her to be writing about her life, her art, her thoughts, and anything else that came across her mind.
Knowing that this book was going to be a more in-depth conversation of that, while adding in her experiences over the years, I knew that I would definitely be getting a copy of this book when it came out.And I wasn’t disappointed with what I read at all.
From her art/music career, her life experiences in college and her marriage, AFP didn’t seem to hold anything back - she bared herself to the world, and has asked us to see her.
The book definitely could have been a lot shorter than it was.
It was really interesting to hear how even very successful musicians still struggle financially.I also enjoyed hearing about her experience of dressing like a bride statue and giving out flowers to everyone that gave her money.And lastly, it was super interesting finding out that she is married to Neil Gaiman.
He is one of my favorite children's author.All in all, this was an interesting book and I'm glad I took the time to learn about Amanda Palmer.
I entered this giveaway because I'm at a point in my life where I need to learn to ask for help.
But what she also gives in return, is a piece of herself, a connection, a chance to truly be "seen."Palmer took me on an amazing journey throughout her life.
She'll randomly tweet "pillow fight" at such and such a place, and two hundred fans will show up, armed with pillows, having the time of their life.
Palmer not only asks for herself, but for fans in trouble as well.
That people will help you if you ask.
Ok, so this isn't my type of book, but it's Amanda Palmer, so I'm naturally curious as hell to read this.
I mean, if not the book, I'll take the coin-operated boy that I have been waiting for...2015 {YES I AM BEHIND...stuff it} PopSugar Challenge with my fellow crustaceans Karly, Jess, Heather, and NeniaA memoir - The Art of Asking; or, How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Let People Help - Palmer, AmandaAttempt 1: Netgalley sucksAttempt 2: Started by my Library loan expired, crazy waitlist on it.Attempt 3: The generous Debbie gifted her copy to me.
It was one of those books people like to refer to as "unputdownable" (though I really hate that word) or maybe "gripping" -- as in I was gripping the covers, refusing to let anyone pull it out of my hands.I really enjoyed the book, as it gave me a lot of insight into Amanda's mind and personality, two things that fans will definitely have a lot of insider information on already.
And all of that is intensely interesting, as she details how she did all of this and why.Some reviewers have noted that this is a book that will give you a lot of info about how things work for Amanda, but not for anybody else, and I would agree with that to some extent.
I discovered the Dresden Dolls' music when that fanmade trailer for the Netflix "Series of Unfortunate events" came out (watch it here, it's so cool!) but what I did was just to add the song to my playlist on Spotify and just carried on with my life.
Then I saw that Amanda Palmer, one half of the group, had given a TED talk, watched it, found her charming and discovered that she was the author of that book I kept seeing everywhere on BookTube a couple of years ago.
I should be too old, too jaded, too well-read, and too involved to get sucked into book that MAKES ME WANT TO BE A BETTER PERSON.But...well...It happened anyway.So before I get into the review, I just want to thank the writer for her openness and honesty.
Little did they know they'd be getting something so very human and encouraging, showing the rest of us introverts and artistic types that we aren't wrong in wishing for a world of connection on our own terms, that being dissatisfied with accepted modes of living isn't a sign that we'll never be able to be true to ourselves.We are not meant to be lost and unable to cope with our lives.
For her, the key to overcoming it was to look for the ways that her work positively affects people's lives.It's that need for connection that drives a lot of this book.
I liked how she presents asking as an invitation to collaborate, rather than an act of weakness or inadequacy, as people often seem to see it.
But now I see them as artists, so I always give them money."If asking is a collaboration, begging is a less-connected demand.
Palmer should be able to support her argument - that artists shouldn't be ashamed of asking for help - without disparaging people who fall outside her world of comfortable artistic exchange.
I have never been a lover of Ms Palmers music but I am aware of her careful nurturing of a fan base and when she finally used crowd funding I was not surprised in the slightest that she netted a million dollars and it's a book about why that happened.But what about the writing?
Well, there has obviously been a lot of work put into this book by editors [and you can't do much better than to have Neil Gaiman to help you] but it surprised me because about halfway through it starts to get interesting, she starts to write more from the heart - it feels truer and more honest.
I thought but did not say, "Amanda Palmer is really problematic, so I don't want to be involved in supporting her in any way." The second time I was offered the manuscript, I said yes, because I was curious.It opens with a tampon story and ugh, not all females menstruate and not everyone who menstruates is female.
I'm quick to adopt "the Internet told me to hate this person," and I feel like I have a much fuller understanding of her now having read the book -- and I can say that and still not want to support her endeavors.I think there's a lot of value in the stuff that she conveys here about gift economy, vulnerability and asking, etc.
Понякога е като малко блуждаещо пламъче, което подава искрица за помощ, друг път е като неудържим горски пожар и ненаситно поглъща хорската доброта – за да прави още повече добро.Всъщност може би трябва да започна с това коя е Аманда Палмър.
Въпреки това ѝ трябва ужасно много време, много въпроси към себе си и две наистина тежки събития в живота ѝ, за да започне истински да практикува изкуството да помолиш за помощ.Опорните точки в хаотичните размишления на Аманда са развитието на връзката ѝ с Нийл Геймън и приятелството ѝ с бащината фигура в живота ѝ – Антъни.
So tbh, I went into this book without really knowing about Amanda Palmer.
Not to have courage in myself (which all other memoirs I read so far conveyed to me) but to have trust in my fellow human beings.I think this is a really beautiful and important message and I'm grateful to Amanda for writing down her story!
Fun fact towards the end: I recently started reading books by Neil Gaiman on recommendation of a bookstagram friend and fell in love with his writing!
Again, I didn't know anything about Amanda Palmer, so finding out she is married to Neil Gaiman somehow was such a fun surprise!
I binge-read/bing-listened (whatever you want to call it) this for hours at a time, and I loved hearing about how Amanda overcame her fears and worries about a variety of things (including allowing her husband Neil Gaiman to help her out financially - something I have always had trouble with).I loved her depiction of her marriage to Neil, and it was great to see their little relationship quirks.
The way she spoke about him and their relationship was beautiful and heartwarming, and I loved having an insight into Gaiman too as a person outwith the novelist domain.I'd recommend this as an audiobook specifically, whether you're a fan of Amanda Palmer or not.
"But asking for help with gratitude says/We have the power to help each other." This is true, and I think it's something worth talking about and trying to convince people of.That said, I didn't finish the book because I was often bored, annoyed, or a little of both.
I do like that she has me thinking about art, though.
Is art simply making connections?
Is her art (I'm thinking of the bride, here) really the thing as Josh Bell's playing his violin?
But if she and Bell felt they were expressing themselves and making connections, does that make them the same?
You don't have to be a fan of Amanda's music or music in general (though, honestly, who doesn't like music?) to enjoy Amanda's memoir.
It's definitely not the self-help book type (as the title might leave the impression), but a deeply honest memoir.
She talks a lot about art and people, how not to make them pay for your art but let them, insecurities, struggles, network, Anthony, her long-life friend and mentor and Neil (Gaiman), the famous husband she had a hard time accepting help from.* I'm not, I'm just a sucker for memoirs.**if you haven't read Open, stop everything you're doing right now and go get the book.
Someone recommended this book, based on her famous TED talk, so I thought it might be worth a read.Well, if you are one of the many unconditional fans of Amanda Palmer, which many reviewers here appear to be, you'll love it.
It gets increasingly narcissistic; the part where she "leads" her Twitter followers in a minute of silence for the Boston marathon victims is particularly nauseating.My feed exploded with a rousing “YES, please.” It was 8:55 p.m., so I set the minute of silence for nine o’clock exactly, and asked people to find a good spot, and do whatever they needed to do to get ready.
This doesn't really matter when you read this book though because even if you don't know her at all, you can connect and be inspired by elements of her story, her life and the ideas she lives by.The format I read this in was audiobook, which was definitely a good choice.
It meant that it was narrated by Amanda herself, and was accompanied by the music that she has written in the past which connected to moments of her life and story.
I think being able to see the story the way she intended it, by listening to her narration, meant that I found her a rather inspiring lady all around, and she's been through a lot of adventures - both good and bad.
As ghastly as her music, and therefore likely to be lapped up as being so soul-pleasing and profound as her music apparently is by her psychofan-sycophants. It's full of the worst kind of false modesty, "'No, Amanda, my friend said, 'you're brilliant, you're the queen of the internet, you're so wise and talented'..." - that sort of shit. You didn't hear it from her, but you heard all about it from her friends through her. Fucking atrocious really.
I cried. Review to come.
"a passionate stew of human connections..."A one-line takeaway from this book can be - "If you love people enough, they will give you everything..."The Art of Asking; or, How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Let People Help by Amanda Palmer is not one of those 'How To' self-help books.
***when you can afford something, then pay for it, even if it's being offered for free...Fame doesn't buy trust, only connection does that.Sometimes people just want to help.
Em A arte de pedir, Amanda Palmer conta uma parte de sua vida em que construiu um relacionamento sólido com seus fãs e como se achou digna de poder pedir algo em troca da sua arte.Eu tirei lições valiosas desse livro.
Como o livro é praticamente uma biografia, apesar das lições interessantíssimas, passei boa parte da leitura entediada com detalhes que para mim não faziam diferença.
Quando ela focava em detalhes do relacionamento que construiu eu adorava, mas quando partia para outros detalhes da sua jornada...Foi por isso que dei três estrelas.
But, I think the thing that really shines through about Palmer is that she's genuine.
Whether you like or dislike her, her work and/or her opinions I think by the end of this book it would be hard to argue that she isn't honest.
And, I also think that people will come to realize—whether they like it or not—Amanda Palmer is who she presents herself as.
And, even beyond that, Palmer makes a incredibly strong case even on those points that weren't misconstrued about the (odd) way artists and their worth are perceived.Palmer does a wonderful job of structuring the book.
As such, she is bound to say, in our opinion, the wrong thing at, also in our opinion, the wrong time.It’s not a matter of mistake-making, even if, as a human being, she’s also bound to board that particular train, at least every now and then.
Even if we think she’s not coming from the right place, it’s not acceptable – not because she’s “famous”, but because she’s human.I believe we nowadays tend to forget that.
