https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/56077.Sweet_Thursday
Steinbeck has the entire book, no matter whose story is being told, narrated through Mack's eyes as he attempts to bring Cannery Row back to its prewar form and the once thought of aquarium to fruition.Mack had always been full of ideas and his chief idea here was to get Doc married.
I actually found Sweet Thursday, named for the day in which Mack hopes his dreams for Doc comes true, to be better than Cannery Row. In the first book Steinbeck takes his time introducing his readers to the time, place, and characters.
First-rate feeling, acting, living, cheating, drinking, meddling humans.Starting with good intentions and ambitions, they screw up most of their projects, and ruin themselves and each other in the process, but they NEVER give up caring for Cannery Row and its inhabitants, and trying to do things better next time despite repeated disastrous results.Sometimes that means throwing a masquerade party to raffle off the Palace Flophouse, and a collective effort to get Doc married.
Companionship and good cheer, camaraderie and the right dose of picaresque reign over the marginalized neighborhood in Monterey, and the familiar pulse of tragicomedy takes hold of the comforted reader.There is only a discordant note in Steinbeck’s symphony that dulls the otherwise colorful picture: old Doc has come back home from the front a changed man; his boundless love for the sea, its marine creatures and even the appeasing voices of Gregorian chants have lost their allure.
Sweet Thursday: Cannery Row ReduxThe world is so full of a number of things, I'm sure we should all be as happy as kings.-Happy Thought, from a Child's Garden of Verse, Robert Louis SteversonIf you love the works of John Steinbeck as I do, it does not matter whether the critics have labeled one of his novels among his major novels.
And there's Suzy, a girl down on her luck who takes up residence at the Bear Flag though Flora doubts she's cut out for the working life.Otherwise, Steinbeck happily brings back the usual suspects to the pages of Sweet Thursday.
A book that is a love story on three levels.
We have the love that Mack, Hazel and the gang feel for Doc, their friend and mentor.
They may be living on the wrong side of town, have intermittent work prospects and have a relaxed attitude to morals and the law but their colourful and joyful lives are a treat to read.
Written with affection and wit this is a wonderful book, worth a read.
I was in Monterey quite recently and even visited the Steinbeck house in Salinas, so I thought it would be a damn good time to read another Steinbeck.
But then again, it's always a good time to read Steinbeck!Having said that, I do worry every time I read one of his books, because all the character's always die and it will always be sad.
For like Cannery Row, Sweet Thursday is actually a comedy.That makes sense, since Sweet Thursday is a sequel to Cannery Row. Most all of the old characters are back and their aims are almost exactly the same.
"I like to know what color a thing is, how it smells and maybe how it looks, and maybe how a guy feels about it--but not too much of that.""Chapter 1: What Happened In Between" picks up most of the characters of Cannery Row after the end of World War II.
This usually leads to a greater disaster, but it makes for delightful reading.Somewhere in there is the story of the whole human race.I leave you with some wisdom from Steinbeck regarding choosing a wife."You know, they say there's three good reasons for marrying a hustler.""What are you talking about?" said Doc.Mack counted on his fingers.
Since listening to an audiobook edition of Cannery Row earlier this year and falling in love with both the characters and Steinbeck's writing, I've looked forward to reading this sequel.
It's set about ten years after the events of Cannery Row. Doc has returned from army service to his work at the Western Biological Laboratory and finds himself unsatisfied and depressed.
This makes the other denizens of Cannery Row decide that Doc needs a wife and that Suzy - a new girl at the Bear Flag Restaurant - is the wife for him.
"You know, Suzy, there ain't no way in the world to get in trouble by keeping your mouth shut.
Hell Suzy, we ain't got no opinions!
That's the second rule: lay off opinions because you ain't really got any.""You got 'em numbered, huh?" said Suzy."I could write a book," said Fauna.
Don't pretend to be something you ain't, and don't make like you know something you don't, or sooner or later you'll sure fall on your ass.
not just thrown in there!If you like Monterey or simple times of...
some time ago :) I like his style.
I liked this quite a bit more than Cannery Row. I always enjoy Steinbeck's writing, but Sweet Thursday had a much stronger center to the story the Cannery Row. I liked the characters better and cared a lot more about what happened to them.
The sequel to Steinbeck's Cannery Row, it's difficult to nail down exactly why this novel isn't as good as its prequel.
Sweet Thursday is still a very enjoyable book and managed to arouse and audible chuckle from me here and there, but, as the only work of Steinbeck's I've read that could be labeled as a "romantic comedy," it fell short of leaving me with that happy and slightly amazed feeling that Cannery Row succeeded in leaving behind.
This is still a good, fun book.
If you liked Cannery Row then you should still read Sweet Thursday.
Perhaps it's not rated as John Steinbeck's best books - but it's my favourite. Whenever someone tells me they enjoyed Cannery Row, I say: read Sweet Thursday; it's better. Steinbeck invented such wonderful characters and breathed life into them.
I loved Cannery Row and it was a love that developed over many years of growing appreciation. Sweet Thursday had everything I loved about Cannery Row (it being a sequel and all). I can't get over how good Steinbeck is at characterization; he shows, not tells. There were some slow parts and bizarre parts, much like Cannery Row but I really enjoyed it and bought into everything that happened. You got to watch Hazel though. That boy is trouble.
This was a charming novel. It's been too long since I read Cannery Row, though, and I wasn't as connected to the characters as I would have liked. I need to read them back to back in a few years.
I loved this book... it is a sweet follow-up sequel to Cannery Row. I was hooked at the intro when the review of "Cannery Row" is told from the perspective of one of the vagabonds. It is much more sweet and cheerful than the first book, but it resonated.This book felt a little bit like Mark Twain in its adventurous nature. Lots of funny material. Very enjoyable read!
"There are people who will say that this whole account is a lie, but a thing isn't necessarily a lie even if it didn't necessarily happen." (54)I loved Cannery Row, and thought I'd finally read Sweet Thursday, which is set in the same place and returns—after the war—to some of the same characters. I didn't think it was as good as the first sketch of the Row, but the swashbuckling group created by Steinbeck, plus/minus a couple of souls, was still entertaining and endearing.
Pretty SuzieCerto, Doc non è Richard Gere, ma un biologo sgangherato e disincantato che torna a "Vic
На улица „Консервна“ идилията продължава(Цялото ревю е тук: https://knijenpetar.wordpress.com/201...) Каквото и хубаво да се каже за Джон Стайнбек, все ще бъде малко, затова и писането на ревюта за неговите книги прилича по-скоро на опит да се построи още един паметник на писателя до хилядите вече завършени.
От него съм чел доста, но съм писал единствено за „Улица ‘Консервна’“ (https://knijenpetar.wordpress.com/201...), което дори ми се струва леко обидно по отношение на искрената ми симпатия към него.
Старая се да не заприличам на на някой, който си е загубил главата, но това сам няма как да го преценя, нали?(Продължава в блога: https://knijenpetar.wordpress.com/201...)
John Steinbeck yllätti minut tällä Torstai on toivoa täynnä teoksellaan.
Olen lukenut aiemmin Routakuun ajan, joka oli todella lukuhermoja kutkuttava teos.
Nautin kovasti myös Oikuttelevasta bussista.
Torstai on toivoa täynnä teokselle annoin paljon anteeksi kirjan pitkäveteiselle alulle, sillä lukeminen oli kuin tervan juontia ensimmäiset 50 sivua.
Siihenpä se jäikin pitkäksi aikaa, kunnes päätin jatkaa ja ihan mukiinmenevästi Steinbeck taiteili tässä pienessä yhteisössään.
Yhteisön mukavin henkilö oli masentunut ja ympärillä olevat ihmiset yrittivät auttaa häntä.
He päättelivät, että mies tarvitsee naisen ja sopiva naishenkilö tuli sopivasti kuvioihin.
Telkkarissa on ollut vuosikausia näitä naittamisohjelmia, joten kirjakin tuntui sellaiselta, se oli sellainen.
Having enjoyed Cannery Row so much, it was with some trepidation that I began this one - I'm not a big fan of sequels and think that they are often poorly thought out, ill conceived or just plain lazy. However, this one proved to be an exception and is well worth a read - it definitely added to the first book rather than detracted which is often the case. Any fan of Steinbeck should definitely make the effort to get hold of this one!
Sweet Thursday is the sequel to Cannery Row, one of my favorite of Steinbeck’s books.
Sweet Thursday quickly made its way to that top bracket as I read it.
Steinbeck takes us back to Cannery Row and all of our favorite characters.
Doc, Mack and the others won a place in our hearts in Cannery Row, but the new additions are just as wonderful.
**SPOILERS**I loved that Steinbeck didn’t throw Doc and Suzy together immediately.
He’s put to the test as he tries to work out the best way to help Doc, the man he admires so much.
And thus: I found Sweet Thursday, the sequel to Cannery Row, from the man that makes more sense than anybody that he’s read Sweet Thursday, the sequel to Cannery Row.There’s a line in Cannery Row I want to use every time I talk about one of Elmore’s books.
Had the man looked through another peephole he might have said, ‘Saints and angels and martyrs and holy men,’ and he would have meant the same thing.” And Sweet Thursday— it’s Cannery Row squared, just with all the more joy.
Give me the sons of bitches and martyrs and holy men; a whorehouse and a flophouse, let me call it ‘home, sweet home’ and mean the same thing.
I had read Cannery Row something like 15 years ago, and had forgotten a lot of the characters.
There is a kind of style or attitude that Steinbeck brings to this world which is both sympathetic and very humorous.
That's a difficult trick as it would be very easy for us to laugh at Hazel - a man who believes he will become President because of a horoscope reading from the madame of the local whore house, even though he has no aspiration or ability towards the Presidency.
Surface descriptions of most characters could imply a lighthearted derision.
Steinbeck avoids this kind of derisive humor as well as sentimentality and produces a comedic novel that is both funny and meaningful.
He is "so human" and compassionate and he understands human nature better than anyone."Nobody don’t give a particular damn about Suzy one way or the other.
There’s two, three, copper-bottom ways to get their attention: Talk about them.
Don’t make it a fake though.
Don’t fight nobody unless there ain’t no other way.
Don’t never start a fight, and if one starts, let it get going good before you jump in.
Best way in the whole world to defend yourself is to keep your dukes down!
Now, when you got their attention, first thing they want is to do something for you.
By the end I cared for some of the characters (not just Doc, but Fauna and Hazel too) and there was some humor that made me smile.
It is too much a repeat of Cannery Row.********************************************When I had listened to 2/3 of the book I was annoyed, so annoyed that I had to stop and write a review just to let off steam.
Here is what I wrote then: Sweet Thursday is the second in Steinbeck’s series following Cannery Row (my review: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
I LOVED The Grapes of Wrath ( https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
I was clearly disappointed by East of Eden; there I felt like the message was being hammered into me ( https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
Man, finding out that this book existed, which I did only after reading CANNERY ROW this more recent, second, time, was like discovering a new manuscript of the Dead Sea Scrolls, or something, for me.
After tossin' back CANNERY ROW and finding myself scarcely able to get a hold of it, of course I was on the internet browsin' around about it to glean every little iota of information I could, and there, staring me right in the face, was the most obvious answer possible to my ever-unfulfilled need to read more about Doc, Mack, and the boys: A SEQUEL.
Cannery Row is simply magical.
I won't try to define it or describe it.Years after reading Cannery Row (and nearly everything else that Steinbeck wrote) I was stunned to find Sweet Thursday - a sequel to Cannery Row. How could I not know about this?
Reading Sweet Thursday reminded me of re-uniting with a long-lost friend and finding the magic gone, the fire's out, you can't go home again.I love almost everything that Steinbeck wrote - Sweet Thursday, along with Winter of Our Discontent, is on the very short list of Steinbeck's work that left me cold.
His writing is deceptively simple; but it puts you right into the environment that he has created, it is full of social commentary, sly humor, and something indefinable that I might call a joy in life.
Doc, educated and erudite, is soul sick.
From the depths of his emotions the word "lonely" keeps bubbling up.Suzy is new in town and arrives pretty much with nothing.
She tries working as a prostitute but she isn't good at it and doesn't like it.
The Madam of the house thinks Suzy and Doc belong together.
Her first attempts to get them together does not work, but it has some good consequences.Then there are the guys in the Flophouse Palace.
It took me a while to get into this book, and I found myself wondering, why revisit Cannery Row?
Well, I remember this girl.
I know that if I should win her I'll have many horrible times.
Look further: There are better fish in the sea!' But you are not involved.
Let me tell you that to me not only are there no better fish, there are no other fish in the sea at all.
Put that in your pipe and smoke it!"So though this book started slow for me, it turns out to be the cutest love story I have read for a while.
Steinbeck must have had a great love in his life.
It's probably been more than 30 years since I read Cannery Row so I had forgotten all the characters that feature in this sequel.
Very little happens and I suspect that with age my reading tastes have changed and I seek more action content for me to rate a book higher than 3 stars!
The post war characters didn't really interest me and I think I will have to read again one of his more famous books, to see whether my reading tastes have truly changed or was it just that I didn't particularly enjoy this book very much.
