https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16322.The_A_B_C_Murders
Since Agatha Christie is one of the most important personalities in the history of Crime fiction (among Poe, Doyle, Hammett and Chandler) her works are extensively present in these lectures.
The first novel I encountered by her is the ABC murders and this is why I decided to read it as my 2nd Christie.
Time passed well over the pages of her works and I feel that they will continue to be enjoyed many years from now.
I enjoyed reading this little book and my only regret was that I had no time to absorb it in one go and had to settle for a few pages/day.
Agatha Christie is such a crafty devil that midway through a novel she might have you believing that YOU are the murderer!Indeed, The ABC Murders uses slight-of-hand most deftly.
He is not quite as flippant as he can be, in fact, he seems downright disconcerted at times.
It makes for a nice change in the character.
After sampling a few shorter Poirot stories, it felt liberating to read something that stretched and breathed a bit more.
While the shorts feel like wham-bam-thank-you-ma'am, this makes you feel like you've been wined and dined.
Christie even gets all psychological on this one!
What is unusual in The A.B.C. Murders is that the third-person narrative is supposedly reconstructed by the first-person narrator of the story, Arthur Hastings.
This approach shows Christie's commitment to experimenting with point of view, exemplified by The Murder of Roger Ackroyd.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: بیست و هفتم ماه اکتبر سال 2014 میلادیعنوان: قتلهای الفبایی؛ نویسنده: آگاتا کریستی؛ مترجم: محمدعلی ایزدی؛ تهران، هرمس، کارآگاه، 1392، در 278 ص؛در این داستان: هرکول پوآرو، آرتور هستینگز، و سربازرس جپ، هستند.
این روش را نخستین بار، چارلز دیکنز نویسنده ی مشهور انگلیسی، در کتاب «خانه ی غمزده»، به کار گرفته بودند و بانو آگاتا کریستی نیز، این روش را در «مردی با لباس قهوه‌ ای» آزمودند.
I try to get my math students to read mysteries, because the logical skills of finding a pattern and using inductive and deductive reasoning are often skillfully laid out. If you've read this book, you know why its one that I use to illustrate that point in my class. Sadly, the point is underappreciated by my high school students.
The book starts off with a methodical, serial killer sending Hercule Poirot a letter of a future murder!
She usually does a singular murder, not a manhunt on stopping a serial killer.The last part of the book made this a 4-star book for me!It was lagging in the middle for me.
She's clever like that.I had my suspicions of who it was at about 85% in the book and when Poirot started stating all the facts at the end, I did a fist bump!
I love how AC can take a murder mystery and put all the facts and assumptions together seamlessly.Her brain is brilliant and she's the GOAT of mysteries.
One of the most engrossing Poirot stories. It has a great beginning and as the plot progresses you stay glued trying to make a sense of it all. Tantalizingly, clues are scattered loosely to off track you. And then finally with a flourish Poirot reveals the murderer you are left gaping at the cleverness of author in steering such a plot. I loved Poirot's quote at the end ' … but for myself I consider your crime not an English crime at all- not above board- not sporting'
I'LL DELETE YOUR POST IMMEDIATELY.There's yet another unnecessary, unwanted remake of this book into a 3-part miniseries being made; John Malkovich will appear as Poirot, which is as ludicrous as that Brannagh dude and his mustachios appearing in the unnecessary, unwanted remake of Murder on the Orient Express that carbuncled itself onto screens last year.Rupert Grint, of Harry Potter fame, will also appear.
Why they can't leave it with David Suchet, who filmed all the Poirot stories in 25 years as the little Belgian, I cannot fathom.
I don't know how but she manages to confound me EVERY TIME I read one of her books.
You're going with the story, reading with a flow, building up to the climax, and then suddenly whatever you were thinking is snatched away from you, and you begin to look at the things in a way that you never thought of until now.And to do her justice, not only was this story (and any of her others) thrilling, but it had an element of reality better than most of her counterparts (no comparisons).
And here's an example, in the words of Poirot-"And it is very true—when a young girl is dead, that is the kind of thing that is said.
I should like to find someone who knew Elizabeth Barnard and who does not know she is dead!
But remember, it may be a knowledge we may not know that we possess.”  ----Agatha ChristieAgatha Christie, the Queen of Mystery, has spun and extremely intriguing crime fiction and the thirteenth tale from her Hercule Poirot series called, The A.B.C. Murders that revolves around the anonymous letters stating as well as challenging Poirot that a murder will take place in the alphabetical order in a random town, and that intrigues the clever Poirot to come out of his early retirement to catch the mad serial killer striking random people in the alphabetical manner.Synopsis: There's a serial killer on the loose, bent on working his way through the alphabet.
..هذه الرواية مختلفة بكل تفاصيلها من طريقة القتل لصعوبة معرفة القاتل للنهاية الصادمة وستنضم لتلك الج
Was the killer working his way through the alphabet?
Hercule Poirot wanted to know.
Poirot.
With Scotland Yard involved, plus Poirot and Hastings – surely they would get to the bottom of the dastardly murders before “D” arrived.The ABC Murders by Agatha Christie is #13 in the Hercule Poirot series and another excellent crime novel.
Poirot’s deductions; the way his little grey cells get a work-out.
What genius Agatha Christie is! To lead us all around, this way and that, just to tie a murder mystery up in a neat little bow. Excellent!
These alphabetical serial murders are a bit different from the usual Christie crimes -- or ARE they?For once I solved the murder before the end. My little gray cells must be working harder...or I've simply read enough of these stories to be a better guesser.
One of the best HP cases.
Poirot and his trusty friend Hastings get on the case...how far into the alphabet will the murderer get?- As always with Christie novels I got such a feeling of nostalgia whilst reading - it's such a bizarre sense of happiness I just love it!
Poirot was on top form and did his usual slow release of information - I still didn't manage to work out who the murderer was!- I really enjoyed the fact that there was more than one murder - it seemed to give the novel a lot more excitement and more places where the murderer could be caught out!
Most of the books in this series belong to the cozy mystery genre and the only other time I have read Christie attempt something different in the Poirot series was in The Big Four.
That was not something I enjoyed but relieved to say I actually enjoyed this attempt.In this the murderer sends letters to Poirot himself issuing a challenge.
Here goes the typical cozy mystery feel out of the window.
I did enjoy this for a change.There are chapters from the killers perspective which is unexpected and again a new in Christie's novel (from the one's I have read).
Here Poirot is dealing with a serial killer sending him taunting letters and killing unconnected people in alphabetical order.
While the serial killer is a common antagonist for mysteries, they are typically police procedurals rather than private detective stories… yet, this new approach fits Poirot and his love of psychology.
It is different, but not a jarring change.The letters Poirot receives are well done, with both a taunting air and a bit of childishness in their insults.
Poirot fits into the classic cozy mystery, there may be a few murders, but tensions do not typically run this high in the series.
I get it now why people call her,  the queen of crime
“There is nothing so terrible as to live in an atmosphere of suspicion - to see eyes watching you and the love in them changing to fear - nothing so terrible as to suspect those near and dear to you - It is poisonous - a miasma.” Hercule Poirot gets a few surprises – his old friend Hastings has come for an extended stay and visit, and a serial killer has decided to target him with teasing notes before he strikes.As always, clever.
Along the way are a cast of interesting characters from different walks of life, Dame Agatha’s thoughts on beautiful women, and always her deep reflections on the human condition.I like her interplay of humor, irony, and yet deeply relevant dialogues on the nature of crime.
Poirot was perhaps the first psychological profiler - she mentions the police hiring an alienist and it made me think of a couple of TV series.
A human being, Hastings, cannot resist the opportunity to reveal himself and express his personality which conversation gives him.”
The following may contain spoilers:Poirot, everyone's favourite detective, receives a mysterious letter warning him of a crime to hit Adover: and Hercule correctly predicts murder.
Soon a string of murders spread out among different cities and a variety of victims begins to occur.
The only thing in common is that the murderer sends a letter prior to the tragedies, each victim's name corresponds to the next letter of the alphabet, and an A.B.C. train book is always at the scene of every crime.
However, I just felt like this book was different from many of the other that I love.
In  The ABC Murders  Poirot is challenged by a serial killer, or it seems to be the case.
But at the same time, this person is hidden from the Poirot and the Police, and they carry their own investigations on the murders that so painstakingly have taken place.
More than in any other Poirot reads, here we see the great detective a little rattled.
And Poirot's brilliance is once again displayed when he cleverly summarizes the evidence which coupled with his power of deduction enlightens all as to the real murderer and the motive behind the murders.
Throughout the read I cannot recall any possible clue that pointed toward the real murderer.
Even though The ABC Murders was entertaining, I was slightly underwhelmed.It's strange, since Murder on the Orient Express impressed me so much.
I had a blast reading it last year, and I knew immediately after finishing that I wasn't done with Hercule Poirot's mysteries.Sadly, this book was only just alright to me.
The mystery was intriguing, but I found the overall reveal to be slightly underwhelming.
He's alright, but the absence of Poirot was definitely disappointing.I had fun reading this, but other than that, it wasn't really the mind blowing mystery I was looking for.
Và cũng ở cái ngày đẹp trời ấy, mặc dù đã đi trốn nhưng rốt cục chính gã cũng ngã vào vòng tay cảnh sát theo đúng cả nghĩa bóng lẫn nghĩa đen :3Nhưng cuối cùng cái kết...chẹp :3 Agatha Christie, như thường thấy, lại vặn sườn độc giả khi trọng tài đã giơ biển chỉ còn vài phút bù giờ.
"Words, madmoiselle, are only the outer clothing of ideas."Agatha Christie isn't called the Queen of Crime for nothing, you know, and this book was a prime example of her proficiency.
Generally, her books have an array of suspects, and we readers have to guess who the culprit is before the ending arrives, but this book was quite different.
Arrive at it he did, of course, as every reader who knows him in the slightest expected, and gave us a most satisfactory ending.
I've got more Agatha Christies sitting in my cupboard, just waiting to be read, and I eagerly anticipate beginning them!
Reference NotesSeries: Hercule Poirot #14 (1936)Narrator: HastingsRecurring Character: Scotland Yard's Chief Inspector James JappVictims:Mrs. Alice Ascher (COD: heavy blow on the back of the head)Ms. Elizabeth "Betty" Barnard (COD: strangulation)Sir Carmichael Clarke (COD: heavy blow on the back of the head)Mr. George Earlsfield (COD: stabbing)Suspects:Mr. Alexander Bonaparte CustMs. Mary Drower (Mrs. Ascher's niece)Ms. Megan Barnard (Betty's sister)Mr. Donald Fraser (Betty's boyfriend)Mr. Franklin Clarke (Sir Carmichael's brother)Ms. Thora Grey (Sir Carmichael's secretary)Fun Fact: In this book, Scotland Yard's Inspector Japp is addressed as Chief Inspector and not as Detective Inspector like in the previous books.
I guess he was promoted.
Congrats to him!
Some of the best Hercule Poirot stories (IMHO) are those in which Poirot's friend Captain Arthur Hastings appears and acts as narrator.
The letter taunts Poirot and whether he is clever enough to prevent the murder from happening.
By this time the newspapers and public realize there is a serial killer on the loose.The third person narratives as reconstructed by Hastings center around Alexander Bonaparte Cust, a travelling salesman, who was discharged from the Army after a head injury which left him prone to memory blackouts and constant headaches.
Cust was in each location on the date the murder took place.
বই বিষয়ে বলার আগে, আগাথা করিসটির সমপরকে কিছু কথা বলে নেই। রহসয,রোমাঞচ,করাইম থরিলার,গোয়েনদা কাহিনী, মারডার মিসটরি - আমার পড়া বেশিরভাগ বই-ই এই ঘরানার ভেতর আবদধ। সবাভাবিক কারণেই নানান রকম গোয়েনদা চরিতরের সাথে পরিচিত হয়েছি, একটু একটু করে উপলবধি করেছি লেখকভেদে কীভাবে রহসযের গাথুনীর বহুমাতরিকতা দেখা যায়। বিভিনন দেশের,বিভিনন কালের, বিভিনন বয়সী কালপনিক গোয়েনদা চরিতরগুলো আমাদের মনে বাসতবের চেয়েও বেশী পরভাব ফেলে। তবে, দিনের শেষে নিরদিষট কোনো চরিতর ঠিকই মনে দাগ কেটে যায়। শারলক হোমস আর এরকুল পোয়ারোর ভেতর বে

Hercule Poirot receives a letter which warns about a murder to take place in a named town on a set date and signed only as ABC.
This book was different in the sense that it had multiple points of view and a strong suspect was named earlier on than usual.
Hastings (from the first book) is back and following Poirot as he works his way through this series of murders.
The only consistent element is the A.B.C. Railroad Guide and the fact that the names of the victims and towns follow an alphabetical order.
It was, to him, a simple statement of fact.Poirot #13 is one I had read many years ago, but am re-reading anyway, since I am not reading them all in order.In this one Christie creates an idea followed by hundreds of others in different ways: Having a killer use the alphabet to associate with his killings--Mrs. Ascher in Andover, then Betty Barnhard in Bexhill, and so on.
Since we know he is likely wrong in following this one character, why should we even pay attention to these chapters that she/he invariably titles, “Not From Captain Hastings’ Personal Narrative.” This idea could be seen as experimental, I guess, but is really imo dumb.
