https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/958549.The_Bible_as_History
This book has been sitting in my library for too many years and it has suffered to have been put in boxes and moved from one place to another.
One is that yes, it was a history but understood differently from the way we do now; second of its prophetic nature that would palliate its imperfections and inconsistencies; and finally the sheer literary magic of its text.What was an additional surprise for me when I rescued this volume was to find out about Werner Keller, and I now wonder if a biography has been devoted to him.
This was an excellent choice for me.
It was refreshing to read a book examining the Bible, written by an unbeliever, yet treating treating it with respect.
Too often, challenges today are presented with so much scorn that they fail to present reasoned arguments or recognize that intelligent people find the Bible reliable.
Warner is not afraid to say that in certain cases the Bible appears to differ from the archealogical evidence, but he does so with evidence and respect.
I highly recommend this to build a historical foundation for Bible reading, especially the Old Testament.
For an interesting look into the history of the bible as proven by archaeology this book should be on your short list. The majority of the book deals with the Old Testament, but there is a decent sized section on the New Testament. Some of the finds really make the words of the bible much more understandable. I recommend it to everybody who asks me about history and the bible, and desire a good introduction to the subject.
It seems to be almost a rule today that Biblical scholars assign a degree of fiction to the narratives outlined in the Bible, especially in the Old Testament.
Finally, the city of Capernaum has been found, and some of the places that were referenced in the gospels seem to be there as well.While archeology can only go so far to validate the claims of the Bible, the fact that the places described are real places is a good start.
Discovery of records in the ancient cities of Mesopotamia have shed more light on the events described in the Old Testament.
In addition it shows that certain places did indeed exist, which is not so surprising now that I think about it since Jerusalem exists as well.
But either way that is all the book does in that account, and these places do not mean that the Bible is history in any way.
If you say the Bible is true because some places mentioned in it were found to have existed is the same as saying Troy existed so Homer's Iliad must be actual history.
As the title implies, the purpose of this book is to prove that The Bible is not fiction.
Rather, it is historical and the book really succeeded in proving that.
The Old Testament part (which is 2/3 of the book) is quite confusing because it covers several generations of prophets, kings, etc.
I think it could have been an easier read if the reader is very familiar with the Old Testament.
This being timeless, I could not wait for the next edition (updated version) so I can read this book again.
Take into account that this book was published in 1956 and was written by a German author who was neither archeologist nor historian.
The author's intent was to demonstrate through current (at the time) archeological and other information that the Holy Bible is in fact historical.
In any case, a student of the Bible, and especially of the Old Testament, will find the book intriguing.
Putting many Old Testament stories and prophets in chronological rather than canonical order made it more understandable.
I would guess this book is out of print many years ago, but it might be on the shelf of a library or in someone's private collection.
I liked this book but didn't love it.
I think the author jumps to some unwarranted conclusions and perhaps exaggerates and embellishes the evidence a bit from time to time.
But nevertheless, it does my soul good to know that at least many of the people, places, and things mentioned in the Bible can indeed be verified 100% through modern day archeology.
The truth is like that and I find it very refreshing.
I'm still waiting for the book entitled 'The Book Of Mormon as History'.
I have a feeling I'll be waiting a very long time for that one.
The amazing thing is this is a translation from german and yet is still compulsively readable. Fascinating stuff!
This is such a good book! It takes you through a great deal of modern archaeology as related to the Bible. A wonderful read!
It was very common for the popular scholars at the time to view the bible with over-board skepticism, and he was obviously a product of that line of reasoning.
He tries to be objective, but his bias is too often shown, and though he sets out to show the bible as historical, he fights against himself without making the most sense of the data.
The bible contains history, but it's not interested in saying things in a modern, scientific, and chronological pattern.
But still, this book is not about faith, but about the bible as history.
Por isso, é inapropriado embrulhá-lo para aquele tipo de público que quer fundamentar suas razões na Bíblia.Dito isso, e desfeito o equívoco comercializante, vamos ao texto em si: Magnífico, se é um livro sobre História Antiga que você procura.> Acho que não se fazem muito mais autores como Werner Keller hoje em dia.
At the time it was published, little was thought of the bible as more than a collection of symbolic stories with some symbolic meaning.
Some other explanations are a forced match, though concrete in their real findings but requiring a lot of flexibility and interpretation in their matching to the biblical text.That is not to say that it doesn't add anything to the credibility of the bible.
At the time it was published, so little was thought of the plausibility of the biblical stories that this was a great advance.
I am completely drawn in to Keller's enthusiasm and depth of knowledge of Biblical history and archaeology.
The way he was able to bring to life the peoples, customs, and cities that are mentioned or existed during the time of well-known Biblical characters is fantastic.
While some of the battles and peoples were out of context for me at this point, I believe it will definitely help as I embark on my own journey through the Bible.
I highly recommend this for those who have interest in the ancient Near East, Semitic history, Archaeology, and the science and historical context of Biblical times.
In terms of a factual book, looking at one of the great treasures of the Western World, this is a must read.
there are those who insist that there must be a 'rational explanation' to everything they meet in Scripture, and those who feel that ' rational explanations devalue the their faith in a miracle working God.This book attempts to show what historians and archaeologists have discovered about the places and times that the Bible stories we all know were set in.
It is not attempting to discredit , or to prove any particular point of view, just show the evidence that exists.And what emerges is surprising.
After this the book contains two numbered chapters on the apostles including Paul's life and journeys (41) and the destruction of Jerusalem by Titus (42) as well as unnumbered chapters on the Dead Sea scrolls and rebuilding with the help of the Bible, after which the book closes with a postscript, bibliography, and index.While this book hits all the high notes one would expect in a book that takes the Bible seriously as history, there are definitely some curveballs this book shows as well.
I liked this book a lot. It was easy to read without dumbing down the information. I also liked that the author doesn't spend time trying to justify discrepancies in things, just stated the information, how some historical accounts didn't fit with Biblical accounts, and left it at that.
I found this on my boyfriend's parent's book shelf. I love archaeology and would like to know more about biblical times...seemed the perfect read. Not exactly a page turner, but definitely interesting so far. I will probably take a while to finish this book.
This book offers a look at the times and events of the Bible with a historical perspective. It is well-written and fascinating. Definitely worth a second read.
The light shed by archaeology on the veracity of the Bible.
Used this for a research paper. Good and solid, with gobs of information.
However Keller is not writing as an archaeological scholar but rather a journalist and thus the book is not obliged to enter the arguments, merely to tell a story.
Of course there are gaps in the archaeological record (lack of written records for David & Solomon), anachronisms in the bible (Keller is definite that the numbers involved in the exodus are exaggerated) and the bible is naturally an internalised version lacking a global context.
Keller brings in lots of wonderful material - archaeology, ancient documents, geology, botany, geography, and sure he jumps around sometimes a little chaotically, but he truly does bring to life 'the bible as history'.
Z trochu ineho sudku :slight_smile:. Kolegyna mi dala precitat knihu, kde autor na zaklade archeologickych vyskumov tvrdi, ze Biblia je zalozena na pravde.Zaujimave citanie, vadilo mi vsak privela kvotacii. Ja by som uvitala skor pasaz z Biblie nalavo a vedla toho vysvetlenie pre lepsiu prehliadnost.Takisto som bola prekvapena, ze ta kniha vysla v roku 1969, teda za ery komunizmu
This book has a lot of mistakes and corrections. Some of the out-dated contents were regarding Jericho, Abraham's camels, and census during Jesus infancy. I will come back to this review with details and journal articles.
If you just read the back cover you may assume that this book is set to "prove" that Bible is 100% correct. But page after page, the book talks about hard facts and archeological findings without any bias. I have reduced one star for the bit hard narration style.
Great companion to Holy Bible readings. Well researched. I have read at sections of this book for 20 years and finally made time to read cover to cover, highlighting places I will reread.
Written in 1956, parts of this book are dated. Also, he tries a bit too hard to make his case for the complete truthfulness of the Bible. Still there are some interesting pieces of information.
An extremely well-researched and detailed work that explores the correlation between archaeological and scientific discoveries with the events depicted in the Bible.
Despite the arduous research, the writer misses the main point of religion criticism.
The book tries to prove the accuracy of the historical events mainly in the Old Testament.Proving the existence of the patriarchs, exodus,the journey to Canaan or the battles between the philistines and Israelites doesn’t imbue any legitimacy to the applicability of the Old Testament laws.
So many researchers don’t negate the historicity of the Old Testament,on the contrary,they approve parts of its chronicle .
they simply refuse the sacredness of its laws.In my opinion,religion as a concept strives to establish egalitarianism.religion tries to combat rapacity and it encourages affability.
The author covers a great amount of territory to explore the extent to which there is historical evidence to bolster Biblical text.
. .there kept hammering in my brain this one sentence: `The Bible is right after all.'" The book itself looks at many Biblical passages--on the "flood," on Canaan, on the Israeli's term in Egypt, on the forty years in the Wilderness, on the historical arc from Joshua to Saul, and--finally--to the New Testament.
Keller concludes that there is much historical evidence that is consistent with many passages in the Bible.
