https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/770515.Glory_Road
This is from chapter 3, "White Road in the Moonlight", at its very end, describing Colonel Strong Vincent leading a brigade of the V Corps up into Pennsylvania to reinforce Buford at Gettysburg.
took his men through a little town, where the moonlight lay bright in the street, and in every doorway there were girls waving flags and cheering ...
There was the long white road in the moonlight, with the small town girls laughing and crying in the shadows, and the swaying ranks of the young men waving to them and moving on past them.
This reviewer hunted down Catton’s three volume Centennial History of the Civil War at a used bookstore some time back, and although they were among the best I have ever read by anyone on this topic, I was convinced that anything he had published earlier on the subject was probably repackaged in this trilogy, and so I stopped reading Catton, thinking I was done.
Now that I am disabused, I will have to find the first and third volumes also, because Catton is so eloquent that he can spin ordinarily dry-sounding military history into as good a read as the most compelling fiction.Although his Civil War books are not written in academic format, there is no denying Catton’s research or his credentials.
Even without this, lasting Anglo-American enmity could have resulted from the manner in which Confederate independence was gained and internationally recognized, or indeed from the way in which the break-up of the Union encouraged London to pursue its traditional policy of trying to maintain a balance of power in North America rather than—as actually happened after 1865—accepting the hegemony of the United States in its hemisphere and appeasing American leaders.
Since Anglo-American solidarity was crucial to the victory of democracy in the twentieth century, the possibility that it could have been compromised by the long-term consequences of the American Civil War is of great significance." (Dominic Lieven, Empire)And this—"It was not simply that Jim Crow undermined propaganda for the war against Germany and Japan.
I was, to my great excitement, finally able to obtain this book on loan from another library (for some reason it was really hard to find a copy), and I have to say, it did not disappoint.
The book is filled with interesting and funny anecdotes, but despite the human interest side notes Catton never loses sight of the main story, and Glory Road keeps moving at a consistent enjoyable pace.
This is history at its most interesting and I recommend Glory Road, as well as the two accompanying books, to anyone who is able to get their hands on a copy.
i mean it is Catton, so you can't lose. Poetic writing that doesn't focus on the battle details. That is for other books.
An interesting history of the Union army prior to Grant.
Very good discussion of the un-unioned part of the northern union.
Good mind expanding book.
The description of the major battles is detailed, and I learned a LOT regarding the tactics and sometimes the lack of them.
The book ends with Lincoln's Gettysberg Address just about to be given, but doesn't actually contain the text of the address.
I wish that was included as it would have been a fitting end to 60 pages of detailed battle and body counts.I see why this series is considered the definitive Civil War description.
Wonderful.Wonderful. So many personal stories, discussions of motives and results, put together to make understanding deeper. History as it should be done.
Prose is fabulous. One of the best final several paragraphs of any book I have read in a very long time.
A beautiful narrative of an army going from the shame of defeat to the great triumph at Gettysburg.
The second of three classic volumes. The best Civil War history ever!
Unhappily, the book is now out-of-print, but it remains an outstanding, accessible study of the Civil War and of the Union's largest army."Glory Road" covers the period from the Battle of Fredericksburg in late 1862 through the Battle of Gettysburg in July, 1863 and concludes with President Lincoln's Gettysburg Address in November, 1863.
He also gives a fine account of the origins of the United States Sanitary Commission -- a private organization which played a great role in improving medical care for the wounded of the Civil War. Catton's history shows how the United States kept growing almost in spite of itself during the war years, and he captures the transition from a government based on the states, in both North and South, to a strong national government.The book is well-written, easy to follow, and has moments of real eloquence.
I first read this, the second volume in Catton's famous Army of the Potomac trilogy, over 50 years ago and was curious to see how it had held up.
The answer is pretty damned well.
Catton is eloquent and tells his story with great clarity and narrative force.
He is always seeking to explain what events meant both to us and the participants and does a masterful and original job of linking what may be perceived as discreet events into a narrative whole.
I intend to reread a great deal more of works.
After 50 years it's pretty much as if I had never read them the first time.

The second in the excellent series about the Army of the Potomac. This volume takes us through the tenures of Generals Burnside, Hooker and Meade, from Fredericksburg through Chancellorsville in the wilderness and onto the great battle of Gettysburg and the turning point of the war.Bruce Catton's narrative has a good depth of detail while remaining readable for all. Very good and recommended for all interested in the Civil War.
Beautifully written soldier's-eye view of the late-1862 to mid-1863 stretch of the Civil War, focusing in particular on the miserable experience of the Falmouth camp, and culminating with Gettysburg. Even for those familiar with the battles in detail, this is well worth reading--lots of interstitial detail about the soldiering experience.
An excellent "bridge" volume between the introduction of "Mr Lincoln's Army" and the finale, "A Stillness at Appomattox". What Catton does so well, besides writing clearly, is to define the personalities of the Generals, the politicians, and most importantly, the private soldier. It makes everything else that happens so much easier to understand.
Politics, ineptness, ego - all working against the Union yet still the men of the Army of the Potomac persevere. Catton puts you in the camps, the smoke filled rooms and desperate fields of the Civil War.
Written in Catton's characteristically digressive style, this middle part of his history of the Army of the Potomac contains some of his greatest passages of writing, culminating in a perfect, finely-judged dead stop of an ending.
Catton didn’t have the resources of the Internet and digital documents to assist him as modern authors do. But still one the absolute finest book written on the Civil War. Readable and compelling, conveying the military triumphs and failures while describing the true horrors of war.
I'm not the most knowledgeable American Civil War reader but I've read a few titles over the years. I found this to be a great read. I picked up a lot of details about the Army of the Potomac that I did not previously know.
Catton's book from the perspective and focus of the Army of the Potomac is well done and a good balance of fluid story telling and well supported historical conclusions. I personally believe that Mead was better than Catton's opinion indicates at Gettysburg; he just needed a PR team, but a minor quibble on my part. He focuses instead on the rise of the common Union soldier which reached a tipping point in the war at Gettysburg, which certainly is significant. All in all, a fine book.
A magnificent second part to Catton's trilogy. It covers the period from the autumn of 1862 to the battle of Gettysburg in July of '63.To give an idea of the Catton's moving style, I will simply offer an extended quote. This is from chapter 3, "White Road in the Moonlight", at the very end of the chapter, describing Colonel Strong Vincent leading a brigade of the V Corps up into Pennsylvania to reinforce Buford at Gettysburg. This was on June 30, the night before the full moon of July 1.
The starting point for this book is when the ever-cautious, slow-moving General McClellan, beloved by his soldiers, is finally given the sack by President Lincoln.
McClellan had been replaced by Ambrose Burnside, a much more daring general, who put together a good plan on paper to get his army across the Rappahannock River at Fredericksburg, but the Confederates were given the gift of time to fortify their positions when Union logistics screwups prevented the landing boats from being delivered as scheduled.
Lee was on the offensive from then on, all the way to Southern Pennsylvania in the summer, when he was finally stopped by General Meade, shortly after Hooker was sacked.
(Lincoln exiled him to the Confederacy, who didn't value Vallandigham's presence any more than the Union did.)The reader is also privy to the continued machinations and turmoil in Washington, DC during this time, as President Lincoln sought the "right" general for the Army while wrestling with politicians who all thought they knew better than he how to fight and win the war.Through all this Catton does a wonderful job in chronicling and explaining the unplanned but inevitable evolution of both the Union and its Army.For Civil War "novice" or "expert" alike - a wonderful book.
In this second of his Army of the Potomac Trilogy, the author has smoothed out all the rough edges of his first volume, Mr. Lincoln's Army.
It is also prone to embellish somewhat the part of its subject's actions.
The author describes great efforts by the Union soldiers to avoid defeat.
Lack of action that, if the author is to be taken at face value, would most certainly have caused the Union army to be crushed.
I appreciate that applauding the efforts of "your team", just as in sports, requires some positive comments, but barely winning a ball game can be viewed in a very different light when the opposing team is the best in the league and when it's against the junior varsity.
Bruce Catton's brilliant Army of the Potomac continues with this tale of the middle years of the Civil War. Here is the struggle against Robert E.
Their generals weren't going to get the job done, so it fell to the men in the ranks to hold the line and pay the price.To be fair- and this is something I haven't seen pointed out in histories of the Civil War in general- the Army of the Potomac had an almost impossible task, and was quite successful in a backhanded way.
The Army of the Potomac nearly did lose both, but managed to hold off disaster until Robert E.
After Lee learned that lesson at Gettysburg, the war was over except for the suffering.Catton tells you how the Army managed to hold together.
This is the second book of author Bruce Catton's trilogy about the Army of the Potomac's Civil War Campaign.
As in the first book ("Mr. Lincoln's Army"), Catton gives the reader tremendous insight into the personalities and capabilities of the commanders, the lives of the ordinary soldiers, the deposition and peculiarities of the various units, and the details and horrors of the fighting.
Bruce Catton lived early enough to have listened as a boy to Civil War veterans tell their stories.
If you have any interest in American history, Bruce Catton should be on your list of authors.
Glory Road is the second volume of Bruce Catton’s trilogy on the Union Army of the Potomac.
Along the way we encounter bounty men, desertions, the hospital system, food (bad), the redoubtable governor of Indiana, “the origins of Taps,” the unfortunate XI Corps, coal miners, Copperheads, the Union’s industrial might, and our old friends from the Iron Brigade, nine years before Alan Nolan’s great work.I was especially interested to learn of the details of the pontoon train’s failure to appear on time at Fredericksburg, what General Hooker did to revive the spirit of the army when he took command, and of the Union's growing industrial might even in wartime.The battles are covered in a manner to convey their confusion and the feeling that all hell is happening at once.
This book is the second book in his trilogy of The Army of The Potomac.
He is able to tell the story of the soldier and what he thinks and feels at all times during the war.
I especially like how the author paints the bigger picture of what the war is all about and how it is affecting the country in other ways as well.
But mostly in this book, he tells the story of how the Army of The Potomac overcomes its leadership and grows into a quality fighting force.
Yet another gem from Catton.
Catton writes engagingly and often about rather esoteric and neglected aspects of history.
No mean feat when talking about confused orders, muddy roads, and mismanaged engineers.This book's sequel won Catton the Pulitzer, but here a reader can see the author's skills being honed.I'd also add that despite the book's scope and inclusion of minutia, it has perhaps the best treatment of the details of the battle of Gettysburg I have yet read.If you're interested in the ACW in the East, you really should read this book.
