https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7135858-my-name-is-memory
With each new life Daniel was given, I followed him on the search for his "Sophia," and found myself hoping that this time would be "the time" that he would finally have her.There was a bit of back-and-forth in the timeline, as well as age differences that didn't match up (he'd be much older or younger than his love in some of the lifetimes), which vaguely reminded me of 'The Time Traveler's Wife.' However, this book transitioned much smoother and I never found myself confused like I did sometimes in TTW.I was unable to find anything wrong with this book, up until the last two pages.
“Love who you love while you have them. That's all you can do. Let them go when you must. If you know how to love, you'll never run out.”     “Love demands everything, they say, but my love demands only this: that no matter what happens or how long it takes, you`ll keep faith in me, you`ll remember who we are, and you`ll never feel despair.”    “You have been with me from the very first life. You are my first memory every time, the single thread in all of my lives. It`s you who makes me a pers
“Love who you love while you have them. That's all you can do. Let them go when you must. If you know how to love, you'll never run out.” 
  

  
    “Love demands everything, they say, but my love demands only this: that no matter what happens or how long it takes, you`ll keep faith in me, you`ll remember who we are, and you`ll never feel despair.”
  

  
    “You have been with me from the very first life. You are my first memory every time, the single thread in all of my lives. It`s you who makes me a person.”
Here are the ways this story is pathetic:- Brashares has the freedom to put her characters in any time period, location, and situation, yet she never gives Daniel and Lucy a convincing love story.
Daniel and Lucy wait thousands of years to finally do the deed, and then they make themselves wait even longer for no reason whatsoever.
It is a known fact, after all, that ovulation is most likely to occur then a woman has one shot to consummate a tragic love affair.- Also pathetic: Daniel's attempt at wooing Lucy after the senior dance.
Oh, I sure hope this is part of some kind of series because I was totally in love with this book until the end.
And the end sooooo irritated me that I literally threw the book down.
I love books.
I love great stories.
And I loved this story -- it's such a unique look at how a relationship functions.
Main character: Daniel, a dude who can remember his past lives.
In love with: Sophia/Charlotte/Lucy, who cannot remember her past lives.
Struggle: he needs her to remember him.
(I'm still a little irked at the ending.)~JennyPlace For The StolenUnder Ground Writing Project
Logically speaking I shouldn't have like this book....but I did.
In "Life After Life", Ursula died so many times -ongoing endless repetition deaths - was often like nails-on-a chalkboard irritating.
In "My Name Is Memory", Daniel has died many times also --but he travels through centuries and around the world...and we travel with him.
His unique talent is that he can remember his past lives and the woman he's loved through them all.
This 'is' a love story.
Ann Brashares creates an enchanting romantic world....
Credit definitely goes to author, Ann Brashares.
which 'you' loved.
Ann Brashares unravels her tale a bit at a time and toys with her audience much like a cat bats a ball of yarn.
Apart from these obstacles, Daniel is also pursued by Joaquim, a corrupt soul seeking twisted retribution for old offenses.Brashares entangles her audience so well that by the end of her novel the world appears changed.
I am thrilled to have found this novel that is truly new: completely unlike anything I have ever read.
GAAAR!!Are you kidding me?!I'm still expecting Ashton Kutcher to pop out of my closet to declare I've been punk’d.This could have easily been a 5-star book if not for the ending.
I loved the characters and the overall story that was told here...again, up until like the last two pages.
This ending literally made me growl my displeasure with its lack of closure.
It should be illegal to end a book this way.
Did I like this book?
: So, apparently this is the first book in a trilogy, so now I'm mostly okay with the cliffhanger, haha.
OH. MY. GOD.  This book was EVERYTHING and more. It has left my brain stunned at it's utter genious, which is why this review probably wont be very coherent, but who am I kidding? there is no way I could caption this brilliance that is this book anyway.So I wont say much I will just say this:From the very first pages I was encaptured by this book - loving the writing, and intrigued by the story. And as the story moved along, spinning pieces together, I just fell in love with it. Madly. Deeply. T
there is no way I could caption this brilliance that is this book anyway.So I wont say much I will just say this:From the very first pages I was encaptured by this book - loving the writing, and intrigued by the story.
This book has a very open ending, leaving you thinking there will/should be a sequel.
I sure hope so, 'cause I am addicted, to this story, these characters and this world Ann Brashares has build.GIMME MORE!
Made me feel, see and hear everything that was going on inside and outside the characters and this world and made it all very relatable.I kept hearing Adele's 'Dont you remember' http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UkM6Uq...
I've heard this has a non-ending, and I didn't want to stick it out in a story where I wasn't enjoying the beginning or the middle just to get a lackluster ending.I was listening to the audiobook and for one thing, the narrators sounded much too old for the characters they were portraying.
Daniel would narrate his past lives in first person, and then you'd have all the present story being told in third person that followed both Lucy AND Daniel, so you have his viewpoint being told in two different ways and I just hated it.
With Lucy not being aware of her past lives, it read very much (so far) like she 'belonged' to Daniel without her consent.
Daniel has the ability to remember each of his past lives as he reincarnates into the next.
With each new life, he seeks to find a young woman he is haunted by from his first life, Sophia.
However, Sophia, in her reincarnation, doesn't always remember him.
Until Lucy.I listened to this as an audiobook with the most top notch narration I've ever heard.
This book is a complicated story, made so by the transitions back and forth between the present day and past lives.
Two narrators were used, which helped immensely.
I liked the character of Daniel and how he dealt with his memory in opposition to Ben. I'm not saying that he is right or that it is the best way (I prefer Ben's way) but I find his point of view and his doubts interesting to read.
I know the most important point of the book is the romance, and even though I enjoyed the love story at first, I got a little tired with it and I am more interested in the other aspects of the book.
I won't reiterate the synopsis but Daniel and Lucy's story is a beautifully heart-breaking one.
I'm not really a believer in "soul-mates" or "the-one" (despite my love of romance in novels) and I found it refreshingly real that Daniel felt the same despite the basis of this story being his ties to another soul.
Snappy the pigeon was perhaps the saddest part for me and he was an excellent, albeit short part of the novel that I think deserves mention.This was a heart-warming story, and the growth of the characters over their many lives - especially present day was wonderful to read.
Their "love" story dates back to the year 541, but I would say it doesn't begin until 773 when Daniel's brother, Joaquim, introduces his wife: Sophia.
Okay, so, until the day comes when I read Niffenegger's book, I simply say: "Hey, I like that movie!" I then gave My Name is Memory an acknowledgment nod, believing that potential for something exceptional was living inside its pages.
By stretching the protagonists' love story through centuries, Brashares has several opportunities to make Sophia's and Daniel's connection special.
-------My complete review (updated)---------As I said in my previous review of this book, I didn’t like the story. I felt depressed, tired and alone the entire time that I was reading it. I don’t know if it was because of how the story goes or it was just because I am a shallow person who couldn’t appreciate this kind of plot. Either way, I’m still entitled to my own opinion, so here goes my review:1. At first I got attracted by this book because of its cover. There was something mysterious with
Daniel kept on searching for Lucy (Sophia in her past life) every life cycle he had to ask for forgiveness and he kept on insisting that they love each other.
I really like what Ben said when he became a girl in one of his lives, that he just go with the flow and accept his new life so it wouldn’t be hard for his new mother.
Then I read the description at the back, and I was shocked to know that the main guy was named Daniel, just like in Fallen.
My Name Is Memory isn't bad. I liked its originality, its way of connecting various centuries together and its creativity, but I think the romance really took over the story to the point where there was hardy a story left to tell.
I'm not sure I loved the ending, but sometimes those kinds of endings are what make a book stick with you - I really enjoyed this whole story!!!
Brashares made it too long of a process of Lucy and Daniel finally meeting up again (the near misses and being miserable without each other for so long was just not necessary).
THEN she brings in the whole section of the brother...which I found fascinating when he was just returning into Daniel's life as a villain and thought the whole triangle relationship storyline from the beginning was intriguing...but she lost me when the brother starts "shapeshifting".
The ending was just tacked on with no thought other than "I'll turn this into a trilogy." Superhuman strength in swimming....together long enough to finally be intimate.
This book could have stood alone, period, if Brashares would have taken the time to fully develop the ending.
When I first saw the blurb, I was not interested in reading the whole thing (reincarnation, Daniel, Lucy...
it reminded me of another book I did not like so much), but then my friend said some good things about it and I decided to give it a try anyway.
Daniel is really great.
Lucy is also great and very interesting.
They have a perfect chemistry together and their love story is one of the best I had a privilege to read about.
In short: the story is lovely, characters are likable and interesting, the writing is more than good and I am looking forward to read the next book by Ann Brashares.
Ik twijfel een beetje tissen 2 en 3 sterren.. Het verhaal kwam heel langzaam op gang en was sommige momenten gewoon echt saai. Maar tegen het einde vond ik het verhaal wel weer beter, maar toen kwam het einde en dat viel weer heel erg tegen.Ik had hoge verwachtingen van dit boek, maar helaas!
At first I wasn't sure if I would read it all - the first chapter, while definitely compelling, is pretty intense with the depth of romance and the soul mate connection thing and I wasn't sure if it was a too hard-core love story for my taste...However, it swiftly moves along in chapters that not only alternate in POV, but also in time periods including ancient settings and exotic and varied locations around the world.
Brashares really did an outstanding job of taking the story around the world and each time period felt authentic.I loved the little stories of past lives, people long gone, often having lived a haunting tale.
Do you believe in reincarnation?
This book is for those that believe!When I started reading this book, I had the inexplicable feeling - deja vu.
'Hey, this is something what I was thinking!
What the hell am I was in my Walk-lives?
"This is a beautiful story about two souls who are seeking for centuries and can not seem to find.
He was her one accidentally killed, but her time so loved that a thousand and a half years looking for and died for it.At present, they have finally found it, recognized it, only to a small trifle lucky breaks ...
Read about it!
Que livro tão lindo!! Uma história de amor e esperança que nos aquece o coração e nos faz sonhar com um amor eterno como o de Daniel e Lucy. Adorei!
I HATE THIS BOOK.
I've read books about people with past lives before, but this was just WAY TOO WEIRD.
It was just weird.
It was just weird.
Within the first 20 pages of the book, the male character, Daniel, grabs Lucy and refuses to let her go, even though she's clearly distressed and asks him to let her go SEVERAL TIMES.
I understand being unhappy, and I can handle that.
I could have handled it if they were depressed.
I hated reading from Lucy's point of view.
Basically, I have nothing good to say about this book.
Αυτό το βιβλίο γιατί δεν έχει συνέχεια; Θα έπρεπε. Αφήνει πολλά αναπάντητα ερωτήματα.
I was curious as to how the plot would present the concept of reincarnation and the accompanying memory - I did have a lot of questions but these has been more or less seen to in the course of the plot.The novel is in alternate chapters of past and present.
It's impossible not to fall in love with it!My Name is Memory is beautiful,beautiful novel.
Written exceedingly well, with magnetic characters and with a romance that took my breath - and my heart - away, it is easily the most romantic novel I have read as of late.
| 4,5 /5 |Μια υπέροχη ιστορία αγάπης που κυματίζει αδιάκοπα στους αιώνες!Το βιβλίο δεν ξεκινά ab ovo ,αλλά παίρνει τα γεγονότα ξεκινώντας από το παρόν(που δεν αποτελεί,χρονολογικά,την αρχή της ιστορίας)κάτι που μου διέγειρε,αρχικά,την προσοχή.
Φυσικά για να καλύψει τα κενά και να μας τυλίξει στα γεγονότα,η Brashares χρησιμοποίησε την αναδρομική αφήγηση και σε μεγάλο,μάλιστα,βαθμό,όμως δεν με κούρασε καθόλου.
Δεν πρόκειται απλά για μια ιστορία αγάπης,αναλλοίωτη στους αιώνες,αλλά για πολλά περισσότερα.
Μέσα από τον Ντάνιελ και τη Λούσι,αντιλαμβανόμαστε βαθύτερα καταστάσεις όπως η απομόνωση,η μοναξιά,η αδικία,το πώς οι κοινωνικοί και ηθικοί περιορισμοί της κάθε εποχής έχουν τη δύναμη να να οδηγήσουν τη ζωή μας σε μια τελείως διαφορετική γραμμή πλεύσης.
What does it feel knowing the things that happened in your previous life (being reincarnated with Memory)?
Would you consider that having the Memory is a way of redoing things that you regret before?
Or would you regret on living with your Memory again?
Would you still search for someone who became your anchor in your past lives?Those are some of the questions that I’d asked before reading this book.
It is a must read for believers (like me) and non-believers who question the necessity of erasing the soul’s memories of its past lives.
That night when they kiss, Lucy is frightened both by the images that come to her mind and by Daniel's insistence in calling her Sophia.I was pleasantly surprised that I enjoyed this book quite a lot.
Far from it, it happens to be the accepted way of life, and very few of them retain memories from their old lives.
Another thing that bothered me quite a lot, was the ease with which Daniel gave up his lives - most of the times for Sophia.
First, there is the unrequited love thing going where Daniel (same name and everything) loves Lucy (in fallen, it was Luce) for thousands of years.
Luckily, the similarities end there, as I really did not like Fallen, if I could have given it negative stars I would have.
Daniel and Lucy deal with complex emotions and are plagued with self doubt, and the story takes place over a lot of years.
I've read all of Brashares other works of fiction and liked them all (expect the the 3 Willow, terrible).
On my second run through, I'd say that it's good but the ending really gets me.
Opet mi je teško da ocenim ovu knjigu - od prvog čitanja i prvog obožavanja je prošlo osam godina. Još uvek se vezujem za teme kojima se ona bavi: reinkarnacija i pronalaženje osoba u drugim životima. Smenjuju se dobro napisana i štura poglavlja, a i još uvek čekam nastavak, jer ga kraj u mojoj glavi prilično nagoveštava. Oh well...
