https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36396032-the-thinnest-air
Or is something more sinister going on?Meredith’s sister Greer knows something is wrong…When the police don’t find anything after 24 hours, Greer knows that all is not as it seems with her sister’s disappearance.
And one of them may be the key to finding her…ReflectionThe book is told from two points of view—Meredith’s story about meeting her husband Andrew, their marriage, and ultimately up to the day of her disappearance, and Greer’s story starting the day Meredith disappears.
Many of these characters were a bit clichéd, such as the ex- and the step kids, but I think that is because it was told from Meredith’s perspective.
So, let me start off by saying how much of a huge fan I am of Minka Kent.
So, naturally I was extremely excited to get my hands on Minka's third book!
No one has any idea where Meredith has gone and her sister Greer is devastated by her sister's disappearance.
I was not bored in the novel at all and of course Minka never disappoints and keeps you on the edge of your seat trying to figure out who, what, when, why!
When I found out the plot/story behind Meredith's disappearance it just was a disappointment.
I started this book with lowered expectations...
and I want to thank all of them for lowering my expectations, because I think I enjoyed this book so much more because of that....
I spent the last 10% of this book waiting for the other shoe to drop and it is still dangling on my foot!Meredith has gone missing...
Grier was a devoted big sister and was not going to stop until Meredith was found!
and as things were slowly revealed Grier found out she did not know her little sister as well as she thought...
4.5*Let me start off by saying, what a pleasant surprise this book was.
This is the second book I’ve read by Minka Kent, the first being  The Memory Watcher and I enjoyed this one equally as much.The author has the ability to quickly draw you in and keep you focused, engaged and guessing throughout.Meredith meets the man of her dreams.
One day Meredith vanishes...seemingly into thin air!Told from both the perspectives of Meredith and her older sister Greer, from timelines of before and after “the vanishing.” Again, what a pleasant surprise that I most definitely recommend!
3.5 stars to The Thinnest Air!
🌟 🌟 🌟.5Minka Kent is a beloved author of my friend, Kendall’s, and The Thinnest Air is my first book by Kent.
The Thinnest Air is a great title with multiple meanings.
This is a super quick and well-written read at less than 300 pages, and while it was a bit pat and predictable in places, there was a giant twist that shocked me!
After that twist, however, the ending was more clipped than I would have liked.
The Thinnest Air will be published on July 1, 2018!
Her older sister Greer is convinced that there is no way Meredith would have run from it.
Greer and Meredith are exact opposites.
Working with her best friend and former boyfriend every day isn’t easy, but Greer and Harris wouldn’t have it any other way.
When Meredith goes missing, Greer drops everything to go and find her.
And yet, Greer does not give up.
This was my first Minka Kent novel and I was pleasantly surprised by how much I enjoyed it, especially given the mixed reviews.
Thank you to NetGalley, Thomas and Mercer and Minka Kent for an ARC of this novel in exchange for an honest review.
I was super excited to get my hands on my first Minka Kent book after rave reviews from my gal Kendall - I really can’t wait to read her other titles I’ve heard such great things about!Kent has written a suspenseful, very fast paced novel - she has a knack for amping up the volume and not letting go.
It’s these middle of the road reviews that are the hardest to write.
I can seem to go on and on about books that I loved or disliked, but to say this was “good” isn’t really going to cut it.
Suspenseful! This is my third book by this author. She has a way of building suspense that is completely addictive. I was thrilled when I saw she had a new book coming out.This one involves a missing wife and the search to find her. This produced a lot of page turning on my part and my mind imagining some crazy elaborate, tangled twist (it just didn't happen for me).  I thought there were so many possibilities for a completely mind-bending turn. Turns out to be a highly predictable story with t
This produced a lot of page turning on my part and my mind imagining some crazy elaborate, tangled twist (it just didn't happen for me).
I thought there were so many possibilities for a completely mind-bending turn.
Turns out to be a highly predictable story with too many cliches and loose ends(IMO).
Why did.....?I like my psychological thrillers to be original with a messy tangled web that I can unravel and be left wondering....How did I miss that?
If you want to read a fast-paced story and don't mind a predictable ending, this one may please you.
This is the first book I have ever read by Kent, and I have to say that I was very impressed.
The writing is very good and the author does a great job of giving you enough information about other characters to make you suspect them of the crime all the way until the big reveal near the end of the book.
The book adds some humor as well as Meredith’s mother is a very well drawn character whose realistic quest to be the center of attention is brought up throughout the book.
I definitely would recommend this book and author and look forward to reading some of her other books in the future.
I'm glad this was a free book. With all of the five-star reviews, I wonder if I didn't miss something, but, there was nothing original in this book. It was full of clichés and stereotypes, and it wasn't very well-written.
This was a free book for me with Amazon Prime this month and I’m very happy I didn’t actually buy it.
I didn’t like any of the characters.
Greer, the main character, in my opinion, was so annoying.
This book was almost a DNF for me but I skimmed the last 75-100 pages just to read about how she pulled it together in the end.
(Which by the way, I had all figured out by the middle of the book).I truly hope other people have a better experience reading this than I did!!
But please don’t let my discouragement keep you from reading it!
I’m a huge fan of Kent’s writing style, it’s fluid and fast paced, there’s something slick about the way she weaves a tale, there’s no denying she’s talented.The whole time I was reading I kept imagining some crazy theories that may come to fruition but when everything was revealed I was disappointed.
It wasn’t the actual reveal itself that was a let down but rather the resolution felt rushed and I felt like I still had SO many questions that were left unanswered.
Again, Kent is an author I’m still firmly standing beside, this just wasn’t her best in my opinion but I’ll still be reading her next book no matter what!
The characters were vapid and the story line was just one that has been tried a number of times.
For me unfortunately, this was not one of those books that kept one reading into the middle of the night.I know this author has written a really great book before this.
For me, this book was not great at all, so my recommendation is to give this one a bye and move onto a book that is a thriller that will truly thrill you.
Although if you like a really quick read where you know the outcome, this might be just the story for you.
3-1/2 Stars I’m not often one to compare books against each other.
About the first half or so of The Thinnest Air has a lot of similarities with Gone Girl.
So, that already unfairly put Minka Kent at a disadvantage from my perspective because the similarities kept pushing my mind to thoughts of Gone Girl.
However, at some point past halfway, The Thinnest Air surprised me with a major game changer.
It was enough for me to bring my focus back to this book.
From that point on I didn’t really notice any other similarities.
Terrible 😝 forgettable
This is my first book by Minka Kent and I must say I did enjoy reading it.
The book is very well written with good editing.
(Thankfully).The story followed two sisters pov throughout the book and there were many flashbacks for each one.
Character development was very good and easy to follow.
The book really took off into the second half and kept me on the edge of my seat even though I thought the ending would be predictable.
I have rated this book 3 1/2 🌟🌟🌟⭐ stars.
It’s a great concept- prime members getting access to books FOR FREE about a month before their scheduled release date.
But July’s picks sounded promising, so I took a chance.When 20-something Meredith gets married to a man almost 3x her age, she thinks she’s got it made.
He makes her feel like she’s the only girl in the room.
It’s as if she’s vanished…you guessed it, into thin air.
*rolls eyes*Her sister Greer plays detective.
Things I liked: Split narration between Meredith and Greer.
Things that annoyed the ever-living fuck out of me: Meredith and her bejeweled vagina.
Advanced Reading Copy For an Honest ReviewSuspense is definitely in my top two favorite Genres, but it is so hard sometimes to find a good suspense thriller, BUT every single time I see Minka Kent is coming out with a new book I get so excited because I know it will be amazing.
I have yet to read anything by this author that is less than stellar.This story goes back in forth between the past and present as the mystery of what happened to Meredith builds into a very suspenseful, twisty, winding cobweb.
I read this book in one day, I just could not put it down without knowing what was going to happen next.
I’m a big fan of Minka Kent and this book didn’t disappoint-a solid 3.5 stars for me. The Thinnest Air is a mystery/thriller that centers around sisters Meredith and Greer. Meredith seems to have to have all-a rich husband, beautiful house and two step-children-so what happened and why did she go missing!? The Thinnest Air is full of colorful characters and many twists/turns-recommend to readers that like mystery/thriller books.
And then there's Andrew, whose behavior as of recent seems to confirm the neighbors' speculation that Meredith is just a new plaything for him to admire until he tires of her and moves on to a younger version of her.Meredith feels as though there is so much more to life than wealth and comfort.
Soon, she finds her heart straying from Andrew and becomes entangled in several relationships, one of which may lead to her demise.When Meredith goes missing, her sister, Greer, must face some hard truths about her baby sister.
2.5 StarsWell this was my freebie for the month of June and I wasn't all that impressed.
I thought the dialogue was pretty terrible at the start too.
As the story progressed, those things improved.
But it wasn't really enough to earn a glowing recommendation from me.
There were other problems that began to reveal themselves just as the aforementioned issues began to improve.
I really like a mystery in which I am completely fooled and didn't see the ending coming.
UNLESS, it's because the actions of the players are so completely manufactured and unbelievable that they didn't make sense.
I enjoyed this book (3 stars is NOT a negative review where I'm concerned).
It was well written, quite dark in places, well-paced with a clever sliding timeline and kept me guessing concerning the antagonist's identity.I'd've rated it higher if it weren't for two things:1.
The ending was a bit of a wet fart.
Some of the characters seem to have been hit one too many times with the Stupid Stick™.
Events could have been resolved much sooner if certain characters hadn't kept certain information to themselves for no good reason.Despite these flaws, this was still an enjoyable read.
Never boring, this quick read kept me turning pages, but oh, what a frustrating ending!
This is one of those suspense novels where you suspect everybody – so of course I suspected the perpetrator/s all along!
The main character, Meredith, - what a total ninny!
But such a stunner that she slayed men wherever she walked.
(Yeuch).
The writing was good overall, but Kent uses that (annoying in my view) device of using brand names as shorthand descriptions.
So the ending …(view spoiler)[ Meredith is such a ninny..take your trust fund and run, honey!
(hide spoiler)]
I will never not give an author a second chance but TMW was paaaainful to read.
( I just actually had to look up their names in the blurb, that's how horrible this is)image: image: Meredith goes missing from their town.
Andrew goes missing from the book.
In walks drool-pooling-at-the-corners-of-my-mouth-boring sister, whatsherface.
The characters reactions (as I mentioned also in TMW) do not match the situations whatsoever and I felt like in the span of a couple of sentences that I had missed a few chapters.
Also something I believe I mentioned in my previous review of TMW.
I disliked all characters, especially Meredith.
Well what I'd imagined was far more interesting than what was actually revealed...the who, the why, the how was kind of ordinary.
I wanted this book to be more psychologically twisted than it actually was.SPOILERS BELOW **Also, I wanted to know: 1) What was the falling out between Meredith and Allison about?
Because I started thinking a woman was actually behind everything I began to imagine that Meredith herself was doing it...maybe an alternate personality had emerged?
Anyway, as you can see, my imaginings were certainly more convoluted and perhaps more interesting possibilities than what actually happened.
The best type of thriller are the ones that make you question everyone and everything! 5 stars!
I recently read The Memory Watcher by Minka Kent and was totally blown away by it.
As the story unravels, some dark secrets come to light that had me construct all sorts of wild and wonderful theories about Meredith’s fate, remembering how Kent had totally blindsided me in the past.
The author has a way of setting the scene that allowed me to vividly picture all characters and settings, which created an irresistible sense of tension and quickly drew me into the story.Picture my jaw-dropping disappointment when the story made an unexpected turn about ¾ into the book, totally surprising me – unfortunately not in a good way.
Although I found this book beautifully written, I didn’t feel thrilled by it, nor particularly curious to find out who kidnapped Meredith. Unfortunately, this was a heard-one-too-many-times-before story for me.
A clever and unpredictable mystery element, together with the intriguing sibling relationship these two share gave this story a lot of heart and soul.Minka Kent writes layers well, your  perception of the characters changes and whilst she doesn’t give you too many suspects they all ebb and flow as the story goes, you are not sure what the truth is until the reveal.I read this in one sitting, spending a couple of hours in the company of Meredith and Greer and it was an excellent read first page to last.
I am teetering between giving a 3 or 4 star review. Good writing, interesting plot, clever and unique with fairly fleshed out characters lead me to give a 4 but then the ending........rushed and too pat. 3.5stars and that is generous --of course, that is just my opinion.. The story was just too superficial and one of the story lines was completely unbelievable. However, I still would recommend.
