https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15512.Total_Recall
Right this book I guess has stirred up some heated conversations in the past- yes its taken from the film which in turn has been taken from the Philip K Dick story, which at each step has changed how the story went and altered it from the story before.
I will not give the book away even though I think in science fiction circles the film storyline is pretty well know - simply because I hope those who go on to read it will enjoy it as much as I do.
The movie was extremely close to this book.
There are always going to be low expectations for the novelisation of a movie, even when written by the prolific Piers Anthony. The novel slavishly followed the movie plot and the characters were as thin as the script paper from whence they sprung.
Най-вероятно разказът на Филип Дик със същото заглавие е послужил за основа на романа. Писателят е доразвил сюжетната линия, от което читателят само печели.
Bunii castiga pe Marte, se poate respira din nou
Quaid is haulted by nightmares about the planet Mars.
Someone wants to kill him because Quaid has got a secret in his mind the existence of which he doesn’t know.
In Mars, he finds a woman in his dreams, Milena and learns that a mean dictator Cohaagen rules the planet.
Cohaagen with his men is trying to kill Quaid and Milena.
Now, back to the secret Quaid possesses in his mind.
Because the breathable free air in atmosphere, which the terraforming brings, will end his business and monopoly in Mars.
But in the end they succeeded to liberate Mars from the paw of Cohaagen.
I really enjoyed this book.
It was a great 'companion piece' to the Arnold Schwarzenegger film, but it also enlarged upon the plot, filling in some gaps that the non stop action sort of brushed over.
Piers Anthony has enriched the film storyline and added his own touches of wry humour and stronger characterisation.
It still romps along at a tearing pace, but there's more depth and even moments of poignancy here and there, amongst the mayhem.It's a fun read, and although some people would probably be horrified, I must admit it's probably more to my taste than the original Philip K Dick short story that 'seeded' it.
Knowing the movie was based on a Phillip K.
Dick story, it still took time to figure out whether this novel came first or the movie.
They carry the exact storyline, down to the gritty character descriptions in the Martian bar, The Last Resort.
Having seen the movie first, reading the book almost seemed a redundant exercise in exploring Total Recall.
However, Anthony, as always, adds brilliant depth to this classic sci-fi movie with his mastery of the genre.
In particular, I enjoyed this book for the background on the relation between the alien artifacts, Mars, and the future (or demise) of mankind.
Well worth the read.
I really enjoyed reading this sci-fi guy-lit.I didn't realise but this was actually a film before it was a novel. I only had vague memories of the movie, like people's heads exploding and the futuristic video-window, so I was approaching this with a fresh mind.It is, at times, ultra-violent and sex-crazed but the plot is quite gripping.They did a good job of creating a future that seems credible. Apparently the ending in the book is different to the film so I guess I'll have to watch that sometime.(p.s. Thanks for the loan James, I'll give it back eventually!)
I remember reading this book in October of 1989, and thinking, "Man, this would make a really good Arnold Schwarzenegger movie." Cue next March, and I am watching the Barbara Walters pre-Academy Awards special where she interviews him and notes his next movie..."Total Recall". I was totally stoked! In retrospect, it's a fairly standard novelization of a movie script. Since the screenplay is so great and the source material is classic, that's not a bad thing. And it was a really good Arnold Schwarzenegger movie!
Description Douglas Quail is haunted by nightmares of Mars, covert missions and a life more glamorous than his earthbound 2089 AD reality. So he turns to "Recall", manufacturers of synthetic memories. They implant a memory into him but he soon finds that his nightmares are true memories.my review:Very quick paced with twists and turns that kept me entertained until the end. Action packed science fiction.
I actually purchased years ago an original edition of Total Recall by Piers Anthony before the movie came out. After finally reading it, and it does differ from the movie a bit, I can't imagine anyone else being cast as Quaid than Arnie! The book goes into quite a bit more detail about the aliens and the alien artifact than the movie ever did. All in all still an enjoyable read, now I'll have to try and get a copy of Philip Dick's story to see how it compares.
One of the rare instances where the movie may actually be better than the book.
It bothers me so much that this was such a far cry from the Philip K Dick book. Don't bother. Read the original short.
Почти еднакво с филма, по-развита история с извънземните, създали реактора. Много ми хареса идеята с трите условия за присъединяване, но беше много тъпо това със свръхновата от едикаква си киселина.
A book based on a movie that was already based on a book--what a bad idea! Phillip K. Dick did not need improving upon.
Besides a little extra background on the aliens, this is just a descriptive version of the movie script.
Don't waste your time, read the original story "We Can Remember It for You Wholesale" by Philip K. Dick.
(view spoiler)[It also does a bit of a better job of explaining how Hauser knows what he knows about the alien technology than the movie does.
(hide spoiler)] I felt the explanations added to the overall story of the movie and helped the movie make a bit better sense, myself.
The movie makes some pretty bad leaps of logic as it progresses from when Doug ends up on Mars to the end of the story.(view spoiler)[Whereas the director indicated he left the ending of the movie "open-ended" [i.e - did Hauser die after the white-out as Edgemar said would happen?
Even Anthony can only do so much with a cliched, hack story. He does make the Hauser/Quaid story line a little more plausible, but there are some odd differences between the movie and the book that I'll chalk up to differences between the script he wrote from and the final shooting script. It makes the story a little more plausible overall, but don't expect anything any better than the movie. Which is a shame, because they could have done so much more with Dick's original concept.
I did not realize this story was written before this book was published. I wonder how many other books are written AFTER the movie, or from a short story. Still, the story covered details, as books are wont to do, that movies can never do. This is why books will always interest me more. I enjoyed the details that were NOT in the movie. It did follow closely. No need to re-read it. I was curious and checked it out. Glad I did. Quick read. I enjoy Piers Anthony books. Here's another one.
Better plot than novel, needed more development ... the movie exceeded the book.
Sometimes there's a copy of the novelization of Total Recall written by Piers Anthony lying around so you read it.
A real mind bender.
Solid novelization of the irreverent 1990 Paul Verhoeven directed sci-fi classic starring current persona-non-grata Arnold Schwarzenegger.I may actually be underrating this book a bit due to high expectations.
Given Piers Anthony's impressive resume I was hoping for something in the mode of Orson Scott Card's masterful adaption of "The Abyss" or one of the many great, classic Alan Dean Foster novelizations.But that being said, Anthony does a good job fleshing out the characters and the movie's slam-bang smash-mouth style action sequences and playing with the "is it a dream or reality" storyline.
Great stuff that goes beyond the movie.
Beat-for-beat retread of the (pretty darn good) movie, written in a bafflingly juvenile prose.
But still I couldn't bring myself to hate it.Perhaps the novel's most worthwhile feature is the genuinely interesting bits in the third act dealing with the aliens, the bits that didn't make it into the movie but nevertheless feel vital for the plot to work.
The rest--particularly the middle act--feel dull and padded (as you'd expect, from turning a 15,000 word script into a 60,000 word novel).I wouldn't recommend this except to hardcore fans of the movie, or perhaps a young adult looking for some fun, accessible, gee-whizz SF.
It's extremely close to the movie, so doesn't really add anything to the story*.What it does add (unless this was in the script and subsequently dropped): * Yet another two levels of Quaid's betrayals (but this is so poorly executed that dropping it from the film was totally worth it, and this depends on the aliens, see below).
* The alien story (but this is so nonsensical that putting it on screen would have been suicidal)It's generally well written, but in places you do get repeated lines and rather badly executed passages.
At first I thought this was the book the movie was based off of but when it was word for word the movie I did some more digging.
Novelizations of movies are pretty useless and this seemed to be the case with Total Recall.
Even though Anthony was able to flush out more about the alien artifact and what was happening inside Quiad's head I didn't feel it was worth it.
I love the movie, I love Piers Anthony (though this writing seemed really juvenile for him)and I am just glad that the book made me aware of Phillip K.
I read this book in highschool and thought I would re-read it. This book is really an adaptation of the movie. Very close to the movie script. There is a different ending to the novel than the movie, but it is very hokey and could have worked much better. I guess this is why books make good movies, but movies do not make very good books. I would not recommend this book. Too much wanton sexuality and disrespect shown to human sexuality in this novel to even let a teen read it.
Adolescent violence and dated sexism aside, Total Recall presents readers with an intriguing question: is our protagonist simply a brain-addled construction worker relishing a lucid dream, or is he actually a secret agent sent to liberate a Martian colony from corporate tyranny? The sheer complexity of the ensuing storyline pushes me into "...and it was all a dream" territory, but I love that both the book and the Schwarzenegger film are open to multiple interpretations.
