https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/542700.Trauma_and_Recovery
this book is not about a generically traumatizing world; it's about regularly misdiagnosed mental pain.
the number of mental health professionals who are willing to journey with a patient to the roots of trauma is minimal.
most mental health professionals will misdiagnose post-traumatic syndromes.
a student was brave enough -- and healed enough -- to discuss a traumatic experience of their own in class.
after reading the horrors depicted in this book -- what a relief.there are mental health professionals who know how to deal with trauma and if you have a traumatized past you should look for them.
Depression, for example, is not just an illness that affects people because they might feel sad out of the blue: depression and its symptoms have a rich history and an unfortunate stake in several domains.Herman also writes in-depth about trauma itself, which made me love Trauma and Recovery, even as it tore me apart.
As someone who has dealt with trauma and wants to one day work as a therapist, this book resonated with me more than any textbook or piece of nonfiction I've ever read.
I can't do this book justice with a review.
Feminist, short, and packed with information about what PTSD is, how it comes about, and how to heal it.
Applied philosophy resulting in the sort of "holy shit!" moments that had me dragging friends out on long walks around lakes and organizing two-person slumber parties just so I'd have a chance to share some of these lessons learned.
To adequately summarize this info, I'd basically need to copy the whole book here, so just go out and read it.
This book is hella old and revolutionized the diagnosis of "women's problems" (hysteria/borderline personality disorder) as world problems.
Especially after burn-out has twice stopped me from working enough to distract myself from my distracting memories.She mentions The Body Keeps the Score: Brain, Mind, and Body in the Healing of Trauma in her 2015 epilogue, and that book seems to recommend both movement and writing -both of which helped me until I had to get back to sitting in a chair looking for a job all day long.
Perceptiveness: What my newest therapist told me that made a difference was that there was no need to go back through all of those events, because I was already reliving my traumas every day, each time I am triggered: it remained, however, to follow those triggers back to the originating event(s) and deal with those.
I've been looking for this book for about five years now.
It's fascinating, actually, starting in with the history of trauma's emergence into public consciousness in connection with successive political movements (secular humanism, postwar relief, feminism).
The one about trauma research and treatment as politically charged acts isn't particularly new to me, but it's one of those things that doesn't so much need repeating as shouting from the rooftops.
This is one of those books about gender that spends all it's time talking about people, if you know what I mean.
I read this for work purposes and found it a helpful and thought-provoking resource, a book I’ll likely want to refer to again in the future.
The author sees the big picture – only a small part of the book is geared specifically to therapists – and I found that very helpful in providing a framework for understanding things I have seen and heard from various people.Another aspect of this book that bears mentioning, and which I appreciate, is Dr. Herman’s unabashedly feminist perspective.
Reading it gave me a better understanding of people I work with and made me think about areas where I might do better.
This was assigned reading in my first year of graduate school, and eight years later, I still refer to it.
It's my professional bible.
Judith Herman has written the quintessential book on trauma.
She somehow has managed to convey all the complex elements of this phenomenon in less than 250 pages.
She also (as far as I know) was one of the first to differentiate between single incident trauma and ongoing trauma.
She writes in a style that is simple enough for anyone to read but does not sound simplistic.
I love this book.
She understands that human beings naturally recoil from pain of any kind and cautiously emphasizes the importance of community in healing traumatic grief.
In considering the role of community in the recovery process, Herman suggests that group psychotherapy can provide survivors with a needed sense of commonality.
I still don’t have an answer for this one but overall, Judith Herman’s work presents fresh new ideas about trauma, survival, and healing with a bold and fearless voice.
This book is an intelligent resource for people who work with trauma survivors though some chapters may be too academic to be used as a self-help tool.
Excellent.
The first chapter is a devastating critique of how Freud, understandably, abandoned the women that taught him the talking cure, and invented the Oedipus complex to explain away their disturbing stories of sexual abuse.
Herman also explains how 1950s American women, freed from domestic drudgery to have time to discuss and question some of their abusive experiences, and then the returning Vietnam Vets with their desperate need to process their gruesome experiences together drew out from American society what we now think of as psychotherapy and counselling.
Of course Freud's groundwork was essential.
The reasons I did not rate it higher was the pathologizing use of diagnostic categories, an emphasis on the healing relationship that tended to the therapist 4x more than the survivor (16 pages to 4 respectively, but arguably because of the intended audience and the expertise of the author), and the distorting separation of the stages of recovery.
In a time when still many would claim that those who have experienced trauma are irrevocably damaged and seek to separate them off from "sane" society, this text stands in defiance to that view and testifies to the terrible widespread nature of trauma, the courage and determination of survivors and the commitment of therapists in seeking to provide help and hope.
Toto nie je čisto psychologická kniha, pretože sa v nej hovorí aj o historických a politických aspektoch jednak traumy, a za druhé jej skúmania a liečenia.
Ako žene, ktorá tiež traumu zažila, sa mi tiež páči, že moju skúsenosť porovnáva autorka so skúsenosťou ľudí, ktorí zažili krutosti vojny.
Mám tak dojem, že moja trauma bola naozaj taká zničujúca, aké sú zničujúce jej následky.Dôležité posolstvo, ktoré si z knihy odnášam, je aké dôležité je potrestanie vinníkov a vinníčok a zároveň potvrdenie závažnosti traumy vo verejnom diskurze.
Kniha zároveň poskytuje návod, ako traumu liečiť, a to vcelku podrobný, takže je určite užitočná aj pre psychoterapeutky a psychoterapeutov.
I read this a LONG time ago during the 90's when my therapist gave it to me.
She was the best therapist ever- I probably suffered from I love my therapist can she please be my mommy syndrome with her.
She always gave me excellent material to read and mull over.
This was one of those books and I forgot the title of this.
I only just now was able to find it after inputting a ton of random searches on google looking for it.
I'm so glad because I want to do a re reading of this!
Ключова книга, яка має прочитати кожен, хто пережив чи досі переживає психологічну травму, а також пост-травматичний стресовий розлад.
Ця книга надзвичайно детально описує різні етапи впливу травми на функціонування особистості, шляхи до відновлення на кожному з цих етапів.
Я не знаю, чи буде ця книга цікава тим, хто ніколи цього не переживав, але в ній є дуже цікаві дані про те, як людині поводитися в критичній ситуації, щоб звести до мінімуму можливість настання пост травматичного стресового розладу, також основні шляхи роботи із психологом у такому разі.
Автор книги - надзвичайно досвідчена людина, яка на основі обширного досвіду змогла дуже чітко сформувати всю доступну інформацію по темі.
From child abuse to rape to combat trauma, she discusses each type of trauma in turn, points out the differences between them, and goes into depth about the types of treatment that lead to recovery.Beginning in the early years of psychiatry when women who were abused were called hysterics.
Now, as women have spoken out about their abuse, medicine has faced the problem and developed treatment programs specifically for survivors of child abuse and rape.Herman opens the door to recovery through a series of steps that follow a pattern but which have to be tuned for each type of trauma.
I would very simply like to say that this book, which casts traumatic experience and the psychological impact of living through traumatic life events, is superlative.
By placing trauma within a socio-political context, the reader is brought to understand that trauma is everyone's business, and that we all have a role to play in helping survivors heal, whether at the individual or global level.
This is text I will keep re-reading across my career, as I've no doubt I will continue to find nuances I missed previously.
Herman's writing on the role of gender/concepts of gender (in perpetrating, experiencing, and recovering from trauma) is also particularly salient in the current international political circumstances.
It's not a structured, step-by-step treatment manual, but rather a text which provides a good road map while allowing room for clinicians to find their own way of structuring the therapeutic relationship with the appropriate goals in mind.
I was grateful for this text, because trauma makes me feel so overwhelmed as a clinician -- this person suffered something so horrible; how can I possibly help them?
This text demystified the act of working with a trauma survivor and showed how a therapist can work toward realistic goals and make a difference.
Herman tries to undo (and successfully, I might add) some common misconception about trauma: it is, instead, a life-threatening event that violates bodily integrity.
While traumatic events can be as short as a few minutes, the process of recovery can take months, years, and even a lifetime – but survivors can and have recovered!
Recovery comes in three stages: establishing safety, remembering and mourning, and reconnecting.
But remembering and mourning disarms the memories by giving them words so that they can be integrated into survivor's life.
Trauma disconnects the survivor from his- or herself and from his or her community.
This is a classic. I don't dispute that. But it read as outdated, and had a very male perpetrator/female survivor narrative about it. Some of it was fabulous, but most of it wasn't. I give it a meh and a glad I read it anyway.
yes yes yes (x1000). feminist. well-written. amazing book.Incredible overview of trauma and the stages to recovery (as title suggests).
this book is 3 stars for someone who has PTSD and 5 stars for a practitioner learning about PTSD and how to help someone with it.
this is a really groundbreaking book for the timeline of when the research was done and how much it opened up pathways to study PTSD, i'll say that right off the bat.
but for someone who is reading a book for their own experiences, this is very difficult to get through.
this book is basically bombarding you with traumatizing information about yourself and stories of other people's trauma that is just, in general, hard to read when you're already dealing with your own.
A great overview / synthesis. Herman's book is considered the gold-standard / 'bible' for those thinking about / looking at / treating trauma. It's a mine of information, wisdom and amply stands up in the test of time. Will be returning to this one.
A Must read book for any Social Worker or anyone interested in learning more about these topics!
Wow, I learned so, so much from this book. Herman's unabashedly feminist approach to the subject of post traumatic stress disorder and its treatment is excellent. I would recommend this to anyone who suffers from or knows someone who suffers from PTSD or related disorders (which, face it, is every single one of us). This is a book I will definitely be purchasing and referring back to in the future.
I'm quite sure mine is not the only trauma class that relies so heavily on this book.I spent the previous school year interning on the same floor as the VoV (Victims of Violence) program Judith Herman runs, although on a different service.
Reading this book was also an interesting experience in how people around me reacted to seeing it, mostly at work.
People want to talk about this if you give them half a chance, and as Dr. Herman says, it's an honor and a privilege to be there to witness.
My experience reading this was difficult and I often felt overwhelmed, but I believe it is a very important book for humans to read if they ever hope to help a hurting person.
However, I think the history of societal beliefs about trauma and treatment is very important to understand when considering where we are today and where mental health needs to go in the future.
But she provides a framework to understand the flow of recovery, the necessary ingredients, and what a patient or helper can expect during the treatment process.
Herman's book is amazing, a landmark in psychological studies, and a must-read now, more than ever, if we wish to understand and help everyone from victims of domestic violence to the incredible numbers of war veterans who have returned as sufferers of post-traumatic stress disorders.
Remembering and telling the truth about terrible events are prerequisites both for the restoration of the social order and for the healing of individual victims.The conflict between the will to deny horrible events and the will to proclaim them aloud is the central dialectic of psychological trauma.*******Me, again.
The book becomes a textbook for therapists, survivors, and the friends and loved ones of the survivors, in the treatment of trauma.
Dr. Herman's contribution to the science is her naming and description of the disorder that comes from prolonged abuse; she calls it Complex Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder.
Her contribution is also a political one, in her advocacy for the powerless.Far from being dry, the book is beautifully written and very readable.
In it, you'll find out what the survivors are going through, and the kind of attention they need from their therapists and loved ones.
There are a few issues I would raise that very well could be seen as the mere result of the book being 20 years out of date -- such as the ongoing subtext that 'war PTSD' is a man's affliction while domestic abuse is the woman's version of the same -- although on the one hand it is made clear that these are often the same underlying issue, that is after all the premise of the book, that narrative is then re-affirmed through the wording and organization of the book to follow.
Further, PTSD is hardly relegated to the experience of war, (just as people's reaction to trauma can't be meted out, ranked, or understood in a quantitative way.
but herman presents trauma and the study of trauma within a historical context -- as hysteria, shell-shock, or rape and other forms of sexual abuse.
the victim of violence, however, asks a great deal of the witness -- the victim needs the witness to share her suffering in order to legitimize it and to "prove" it to the larger society.
this awareness of social complicity and the pain involved in bearing witness make herman an incredibly sensitive to both the victims of violence and the society that would rather not confront violence.
Now considered a classic of trauma psychology, it was written by the feminist psychiatrist Judith Herman.
It is eloquently written and researched, accessible to both beginners of trauma studies and long-time academics.
By the end of the text, the reader is left with a workable yet complicated understanding of why trauma work is relevant to radical, progressive, and liberal politics.
All people who care about violence, language, and social change should read this book.
A very complimentary book for people looking to read more about trauma, but don't know where to start, is "Trauma: Explorations in Memory" edited by Cathy Caruth.
