https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17492.The_Island_of_Adventure
This is the 1st in a series of 8 books that I've read many times during my childhood.Used to get them at the library every summer, sometimes I read them in order, sometimes not, it didn't really matter, I enjoyed them whatever way I read them.To be honest, it wasn't reading, it was sharing the adventures with the characters, they did get into some predicaments, ones we all dreamed about getting into ourselves as kids in real life!
Read The Island of Adventure, yet again!I don't think I'll ever out grow this book, or the rest of the series.
Enid Blyton is an amazing childrens author, bestselling in the world. Although almost undiscovered by Americans.This series (The Adventure Series is 8 books long) Features 4 friends who fall into adventures with counterfeiters, gunrunners, treasure hunters and the like. Jack, Philip, Diana, and Lucy-Anne and their crazy talking parrot, KIKI, are a lot of fun to follow through their adventures... This series is top notch reading... introduce your children to Enid Blyton today!
My review: https://perfectretort.blogspot.com/20...The first and perhaps most memorable of Blyton's Adventure series - starring Dinah and her brother Philip (and his assorted animals), Jack and his wimpy sister Lucy-Ann, and Kiki the Parrot. No one who has read this book will forget the perilous descent into a dark well, relying on metal staples for grip. Fusty, musty, dusty!
I am afraid to reread these books again--I started to ten or fifteen years back, and was appalled at how dead cliche they were. But when I was ten, they were the most riveting and exciting books I'd ever found, and I adored them. Blyton mastered the formula of establishing character types, so that the kid reader can easily recognize characters and motivations, gets the adults conveniently out of the way, and lets the kids have the adventure and solve things. The prose is instantly accessible, the humor really taps into what is funny to kids.
The Adventure series was one of my favourites when young, but I don't think I read this particular title more than once, going by the fact that I didn't remember the plot at all when re-reading it.
It's a strong adventure story for kids, although I personally think that later titles in the series were stronger.
Certain aspects of the book are a little bemusing when reading as an adult - like the strange man whom the children befriend and eventually invite into their bedroom for the night ;) There were obviously fewer fears about STRANGER DANGER!
when Blyton was writing.
This is typical Enid Blyton stile and has a striking similarity with the Famous 5 story where they go to the island for the first time. It is actually 5 once more (4 kids and 1 parrot), on school holidays, 2 kids visiting other 2 kids, secret passages, bandits, etc. It is a good story to read, however, if you read the Famous 5 this book comes across as not being very creative and a sort of "more of the same". The cavalry gets there in the end :).
Enid Blyton apparently wrote more than 700 books for children, but I always thought you could keep your Noddys and your Famous Fives; the Adventure series was my favourite.
Dinners (and breakfast and lunch) are immensely important to the young, and one of the key moments in all the Adventure books always concerns them stumbling over a cache of tinned foods that will (phew!) tide them over until help comes.
And if I'm not mistaken, in one of the books, all the tins are unlabelled, which is even more fun.This series is fine for children 8-12, in my view.
This means, of course, that this particular gang of adventurers is regularly forced to endure life with no ginger beer or glistening pink ham for several months at a time, which is surely a situation that would see the Five dead within a week!The Island of Adventure is not the very best book in this series, but it still deserves five stars for the precedents it sets in terms of characterisation, settings and perilous situations.
Jack, Philip and Lucy-Ann draw us immediately into a daring bit of adult-defying trickery that kicks off the adventure with just the right tone, and Kiki the parrot is hilarious from the very first page.
I'm a fan of Enid Blyton.
A HUGE fan.
And yes, I have found pleasure beyond rose-tinged nostalgia even re-reading her books as an adult.
I suppose there's a reason I never stumbled upon the Adventure series as a child - while Blyton deals fantastically well with boarding school stories and fantasy worlds for children, whether it be fairies and gollywogs, adventure stories seem rather less her forte.
And I would hazard a guess that this series is accordingly lesser known than some of her classics.
I'm definitely hoping that the rest of the series is an improvement on this first book.
Buku pertama dalam seri Petualangan yang menjadi buku paling datar dan kurang tegang di antara lainnya. Emang mestinya baca buku pertama dulu sih ya, jadi pas baca seri selanjutnya itu makin seru. Bukannya dari yang serunya naik turun lalu tiba-tiba meluncur ke bawah 😅.Sisa satu lagi yang belum dikelarin: Petualangan di Puri Rajawali. Lebih tepatnya emang belum punya 🙈😂. Semoga segera kebeli, aamiin.
Gan man, gan 10gadniecei darbība likās pārāk lēna un apraksti smagnēji. Meita līdz galam "neizvilka".
Philip and Dinah Mannering and Lucy-Ann and Jack Trent have had the best of luck in being allowed to spend summer break together at the Mannering’s home – a castle, actually – Craggy Tops.
But when they find a secret passage between the cellar and the beach, things begin to get creepy and the children decide they need to get out to the Island no matter what.I actually bought this book unread based on the recommendation of Jane Brocket (of Yarnstorm).
Not the stupid children of adult literature, who are never competent enough to take care of themselves, or the frustrating children of modern works who are only caught up in material things and the drama of relationships.
Well I'm pleased to say I was not disappointed it was every bit as exciting and fun as I remembered and I can see why Enid Blyton was so popular and why I loved them so much as a child.The 4 children Philip, Dinah, Lucy-Ann and Jack (not forgetting Kiki the parrot) are thrown together over the summer holidays staying in an old house called Craggy-Tops by the sea and become intrigued by the Island of Gloom and the mysterious goings on that they slowly become aware of.Compare to today's standards of excitement in children's books I think it compares very favourably and it is refreshing to read something that doesn't involve the supernatural which has become so popular today (don't get me wrong I love that as wellbut an exciting story can be written that is about 'real life' too).The setting is atmospheric set in an old rambling house by the sea, I think the depiction of the children's relationship is well done and the addition of the parrot is a brilliant touch.
All the ingredients are there for the children to have an adventure and when they do get to the island (sailing across on a borrowed boat) they discover old mines which seem to be still in use - but for nefarious purposes.
There are secret passages and tunnels to discover and the children sure have fun doing this.It doesn't bear analysing this story too much - particularly in today's times - can you imagine children befriending a stranger and him letting them out unaccompanied in his boat?
All in all, a jolly good nostalgic read.Have now bought more of Enid Blyton's works and hoping for a similar dose of nostalgia with those ones.
I’ve read a few books in this series over the years, but I’ve never read the series in its entirety, or the first book, so it was great to read where it all began.It had all of the trademarks of a Blyton novel; a group of kids, a cool pet, obvious bad guys, plenty of good eats and a rollicking, good adventure.This one was very similar to the first book in the Famous Five series as far as the setting, with the Island, underground tunnels, ring of impassable rocks around said island, etc.
The group of kids had quite a different dynamic than that of the Famous Five, the guys were definitely the adventurers in this one, with the girls not having much to do in this particular book.
Ceritanya mengikuti format yg sama dengan Lima Sekawan: liburan, piknik, melihat hal aneh, iseng/usil menyelidiki, ketemu penjahat, tertangkap, melarikan diri, bantuan datang, terungkap semua.
Hanya tokohnya saja yg berbeda.Di sini ttg percetakan uang palsu di pulau terpencil, yg banyak liang dan gua bekas tambang tembaga, plus lorong rahasia yg njedul di rumah yg mereka tempati sendiri.Seri ini dulu baru kubaca 2 atau 3 bukunya, jd senang saja wkt ketemu, lengkap dan free, di aplikasi bookmate.
Banyak typo di sana-sini, tampaknya kesalahan pd waktu pengalihan media.
Tapi lumayanlah, buat iseng bernostalgia dengan bacaan masa kecil ;)
1311th - 2011Baca ulang.Seri petualangan merupakan salah satu seri Enid Blyton favoritku selain Pasukan Mau Tahu. Buku ini kubaca lagi setelah bertahun-tahun lewat, jadi rasanya ada sesuatu yang hilang, tidak seseru waktu kubaca jaman SD. Ini kayaknya memang Faktor U, dan pengaruh sudah terlalu banyak buku yang lebih menarik yang sudah kubaca.Anyway... baru nyadar misteri di Pulau Suram ini kok sama dengan misteri di Pulau Hitam-nya Tintin. Jadi, mencetak uang palsu memang harus dilakukan di pulau kosong ya, biar tidak mengganggu dan menimbulkan kecurigaan tetangga.
This book was recommended by one of my Indian students because this is his favorite author. It is very old (published in 1944), but it is still a goodie. The characters and story are well-developed, and the action and suspense are thrilling, but not too scary. The old-fashioned language is also very amusing. This is a good book for any elementary aged reader. It is part of a series, and I am excited to read more!
How I inhaled this series when I was eight! It really is the same book repeated over and over, with some stories more successful than others.And I'm starting to think that Enid Blyton's most successful characters are her animals. Kiki somehow never grates on my nerves, probably because I'm forever laughing at how she grates on everyone else's. Then again, "how people react to Kiki" is a frustrating good/evil barometer. SO. Typical Enid Blyton.
After a long time, I finally got to start the adventure series and i felt it was worth it ... the plot is acceptable for a bunch of early teens ... first of all they are not portrayed to be super human kids who can do more than we can imagine... but just a bunch of curious georgies :) acceptable for their age ... and lucky at the end :)Can wait to continue the series ...
It was rather scary. I was gripping my seat in sheer terror throughout the entire book. It was THAT scary. On the whole, it was a definite thriller, a story full of surprising and (more) shocking turns, a must-read book for all Enid Blyton lovers. I won't tell you the story, for if I do, what good is the book? I hope you enjoy it as much as I did.
This really is an amazing book! The characters are so relatable and I just love Kiki. This is the only series that I've every laughed out loud while reading. Kiki says so many random things that are hilarious. I really got sucked in the book, and in some parts it was just like I'm sitting beside the characters! 4.5 stars...
Another wonderfully exciting tale for children. And a nostalgic read for me. Loved these books as a kid and still get enjoyment from them today. Stuart Tresilian's illustrations are simply terrific too.
Oh boy, I knew even when I read it for the first time during childhood that this series is misogynistic like hell, but it's actually worse than I remember. Other than that nice story, but not as good and exciting as the other books in the series.
Plenty of people have nostalgia for these, but since I didn't grow up with them I see them just as sexist, racist, mud. Kids books have improved dramatically over the last several decades. Read something else instead.
saya baca cetakan ketiganya, november 2011. bacaan pas smp dulu ini, ternyata tetep saja menarik. Penggambaran tempat dan lokasi yang detil oleh Enid Blyton selalu menarik untuk diikuti, apalagi sering setingnya di sekitar pantai. Semoga saja suatu saat ada penulis Indonesia sebagus bu Enid.
I liked the plot, though it was quite predictable.
Buku pertama serial petualangan karya Enyd Blyton. Bercerita tentang petualangan 4 orang anak dan seekor burung kakaktua. Ceritanya cukup asik sebagai bahan bacaan untuk anak-anak. Membuat penasaran.
Devoured this series of books as a kid. Go Enid!!
Lovely opener to a new series :) But how simplistic and perfect the times were, that Philip and Dinah's mother could so easily adopt Jack and Lucy-Ann to keep the friends all together!
