https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28482.The_Hand_of_Chaos
This one is so far the weakest link in the chain, but it's still good.
It suffers from some pretty unlikeable main characters (an annoyingly precocious and evil child, a gang of evil incarnates, and a suicidal assassin).
The previous books had long stretches of compelling reading (so far Fire Sea is the one I couldn't put down), but this one I could start and stop at will.
Haplo dynamic is absent, and that's what makes the whole series work for me.
Haplo is not given much to do in this one.
This one boils down to Haplo vs.
This is the book where The Death Gate Cycle changes--Haplo has explored all four worlds created during the Sundering of the original world, and it's time to start putting his Lord's plans for domination into action.
Haplo is also starting to believe that Xar is misguided and just plain wrong, which terrifies him.I missed Alfred in this book but enjoyed the brief reappearance of Zifnab.
I also really liked getting to see favorite characters from the first book, how their lives have changed, and how their individual stories contribute to the bigger picture.
This book was a little annoying. I don't know why. I think it's Bane. That little bitch pisses me off!
Se trata de una colección de libros en la que tiene cabida la reflexión sobre grandes temas pero que se sustenta, sobre todo, en unos personajes carismáticos, un universo rico y complejo y un ritmo narrativo adictivo que deja espacio suficiente a los detalles.En mi opinión, esta serie llega al listón de joya del género fantástico (con permiso de Sapkowski) ya que, a pesar de apoyarse en muchos de los estereotipos tradicionales, crea un nuevo espacio totalmente genuino.
In the book, Haplo is tasked with turning on the Kicksey-Winsey.
At the end of the book, Hugh the Hand is tasked with killing Haplo.
What really works in the book is how everything is woven together so well.
There are 4 main worlds that the series takes place in, but there is also the Labyrinth and the Nexus.
There is really nothing for me that doesn't work, besides some parts were pretty boring but almost all books have boring parts.
It is my favorite series.
Other than that, this is a pretty clean book
It was so fun and interesting learning about each world and getting a glimpse of how they all interrelate.
But, at the point I'm at now, it seems the focus is more on the turmoil between the powers that be, and frankly, I'm not all that interested in that.
I've read enough reviews of the final two books to decide that the payoff is a little thin, but recommended for those who have come this far.
But there are way too many lukewarm reviews to keep me in this for the long haul, and my reading list continues to grow with novels I'm much more excited about.
Enjoyed the reintroduction of the popular character Hugh the Hand, thought dead in Dragon Wing (Book 1), but resurrected by Alfred.
In turn, the mensch, including a human mystriarch, elven Kenkari wizards, and the stubborn dwarven leaders Limbeck and Jarre, show Haplo that the only way to fight the ancient serpents introduced in Serpent Mage (Book 4) is without fear, their lifeblood and sustenance.This book had long tracts of meandering and positioning, and was heading for a dull 1 or 2 stars, but culminated in some exciting and consequential fireworks in the last 50 pages.
I've said it a thousand times, and I'll keep saying it.
I absolutely love this series.It's the kind of fantasy that I really enjoy, it's intricate, thought out, culturally diverse and in depth, great action, and wondrous feels.
The powers that are pulling every races strings in this are quite mysterious and fascinating- the series always leaves you questioning everything you think you know.
While you're going through the story you learn so much, yet everything you learn leaves you asking more questions and craving more.
Seeing as this was a cliff hanger, I can't wait until I start the next one (even though that will be a couple books from now).
Prestado por: Sergio
Also, randomly, I like the side character Trian.I'm sort of ambivalent about the return of Hugh the Hand from the dead.
He cares about her but is intentionally keeping her at a distance, and it works well that way.I do not like Iridal.
Iridal is really sort of terrible.
Iridal is also evidently a complete idiot.
Suffocates him to death, in fact, and says it's "fitting" because the real prince that Bane was swapped for as an infant suffocated in the poor atmosphere of the High Realms.I mean...
Yeah, he's a messed up (terrible) child who's been influenced by some powerful and not very nice people, but...
Maar terwijl het verhaal vordert raak je steeds meer geinteresseerd hoe het af gaat lopen, wat gaan de Serpenten doen, wat gebeurt er met Haplo en nog meer van dat soort vragen.
Ik miste Alfred wel een beetje, maar de terugkeer van het duivelskind Bane en de Kenkari maakte het wel goed.
Het was ook fijn dat er een korte samenvatting van de eerste vier delen in zit, maar ik miste een kaartje van Arianus.
Ik kon me de stand van de eilanden nog wel herinneren van het eerste deel, maar een opfrisser had wel fijn geweest.
Book 5 and I'm thoroughly vested in these characters, but right off the bat, Bane's back.
Ugh!
One dose of this sneaky conniving little kid was enough and here he is again, causing havoc along with the serpents disguised as key characters.
Haplo is still trying to stay true to his Lord, but conflict arises when Jarre is in trouble and the serpents have their own plans for Haplo.
All and all there's plenty of new developments to keep readers intrigued and moving on to book 6.
With the various Gates explored, it is time for Haplo to head back through the original Gate, with Bane in tow.
In no time at all Haplo and Bane find themselves embroiled in a Race war and the vague plot sprawls across half the book, continuously adding more cast members, until eventually settling down.
That half is hard going, where not much really happens, however the latter half of The Hand of Chaos produces a decent plot and welcomes back an old character to spice things up.
My comments for the individual books follow:Vol. 1 -- Dragon Wing: This book covers the exploration of Arianus: the realm of Air. It introduces us to the two main characters (Haplo and Alfred) and many of the recurring characters throughout the series.
So, while reading the book, you constantly have this little voice in the back of your mind going "what's happening with Alfred?" Irritating.Vol. 6 -- Into the Labyrinth: This book ranges across just about all of the worlds of the Death Gate.
In Fire Sea, Haplo and Alfred use such a spell to replicate enough food for a large group of people.
My favorite installment so far, at first I was growing weary of the whole Sang-Drax business, dragging my rating between 2 and 3 stars, but once the Kenkari kicked in the whole mythos of the series began growing at an amazing rate and the whole story just went uphill from there.
I have thought for the last 3 books that they wrote these series with a sort of a filler feel about it. They feel longer than they should, however, this one finally pushes the plot forward and finally let's you see the whole picture, sort of. Anyway, let's see how everything unravels.
I enjoyed the continuation of the story in this one, but I can't stand Bane. He has a much larger role in this one, and that detracted from how much I was really able to enjoy the book. However, a lot of questions get answered, and a lot of things happen in this book.
Too much rehashing of old stories. only the last half was new and interesting.
These books have become a family staple now . . .

Many of book one's characters are brought back in book 5 of the series and one of the two main characters is given a break from the action. A good followup to book 4.
We did get a lot of explanations in this one. Didn't love it but it was good.
This series full of unlovable characters is somehow growing on me.
Good. More of Hugh the Hand. Feels like its really ramping up for a final show down, thought there were some nice exposés and conclusions.
Solid entry. Cant wait what happens in the final two books.
Book 5...another part of the great series...took a wee while to get into this one
Compared to the previous books in the series I would rank this as an excellent read.
I read some reviews about the book mentioning the lack of action in the book and frankly I'm not sure if they read the same book.
Overall I felt the level of action here very high and the plot drives towards the climax pretty evenly.
One thing I enjoyed about this book is it brought back some older characters from the first entry in the series.
In bringing back these characters it aided in maintaining the level of action here.
Working through this series, a couple of things become increasingly apparent about Weis and Hickman: though they may be accomplished story-tellers, the novel is not a medium that plays into their strength; and, given this, they have clearly improved as novel writers over the course of the series.
The information presented in the appendices in the Death Gate novels falls into two categories: that which should simply have been excluded, being unnecessary to the story and even, sometimes, diminishing it; and that which should have been worked into the main text of the story itself, in a more organic fashion.
This book suffers as an awkward in-between link of sorts.
It sets up the Serpents entering the 4 worlds, sets up Banes unnatural ambitions, and returns Hugh the Hand to the picture.
This is not a BAD book per se, it just reads like held breath before the true conflict.
Alfred is absent, Haplo encounters danger but is overall left without much to do.
Reading this in-between novel knowing Haplo must enter the labyrinth and having to wait until the next novel was honestly part of why I felt this book was not satisfying as well.
I wanted him to get there already!I feel the next two books will be better.
Chaos is everywhere as the Lord of the Nexus orders his servant Haplo and the human child known as Bane to further their master's work on Arianus, the realm of air. But their one time companion Alfred has been cast into the deadly Labyrinth. And somehow the assassin Hugh the Hand has been resurrected to complete his dark mission. More important, the evil force that Haplo and Alfred discovered on Arianus has escaped. As Haplo's doubts about his master grow deeper, he must decide whether to obey
Chaos is everywhere as the Lord of the Nexus orders his servant Haplo and the human child known as Bane to further their master's work on Arianus, the realm of air.
Now that the evil-magic serpents of the water-world Chelestra have escaped through the Death Gate, new power alliances are possible--such as that between the serpents and Xar, Haplo's powerful Patryn boss.
So, by himself Haplo must somehow stop the elf-dwarf war by helping the human and elf magicians while placating Xar and devising a means to repel the serpents--oh, yes, and preventing various assassinations, including his own.
