https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/859876.The_Quick_Red_Fox
Sex, Lies and Videotape in 1964 does come across as somewhat dated in our Reality TV Blurred Lines morality, but as in most of these novels, the real action, the lasting literary significance is what is going on between the lines and behind the scenes.What I love about MacDonald’s work, especially about the Travis McGee books, is his ability, akin with Hunter S.
Yes, and Travis McGee was the vehicle, the instrument, the barometer, that MacDonald used to warn us that this passion in our souls was in danger.Sure, this is a pulp fiction action adventure with a granite jawed leading man and a made up sensationalist story, but sitting in front of the typewriter was a man of consummate observatory and culturally analytical skill.
I think I missed the fox in this. I really thought Travis McGee would either be helping out or partnering with an actual fox. Or maybe just hanging out on his houseboat with one. You know sort of a Disney-esque entry into the series. There is very little Disney-esque in this book.
I did not feel like a nice guy." - John D.
Part of what I love about MacDonald is his ability to both write like a cheap 10¢ noir novelist and at the same time like an iconic, modern-day Cassandra.
Reading MacDonald is to constantly come across sentences and paragraphs that fill you with unbounded joy.
She was like a wild classy kook of a gal, one of those rain-walkers, laughing gray eyes, tousle of dark hair -- sea misty, a lithe and lovely lady, who could laugh at you or with you, and at herself when needs be.
A sayer of strange and lovely things.
***.This started off as if it would be an exemplary Travis McGee novel, but started to fizzle out about two-thirds of the way through.
The basic plot is that McGee is engaged by a film star to find out who was blackmailing her by threatening to expose her participation in a free-for-all orgy at a California hideaway.
She was a sharp cookie, and McGee, in spite of his knowing better, worked his way into a brief affair with her.
Pretty soon – almost as by a process of elimination – the field of suspects narrows until the perp appears.
I have not read a MacDonald book in years, so I sat down and devoured it.MacDonald (1916-1986) was a prolific writer of novels and short stories.
This book is a Travis McGee novel one of his more popular series characters.
His writing career started in 1945 while still in the Army when he had an article published in Story Magazine.In this book, Travis McGee is recruited to help a Hollywood star find a blackmailer who threatens her career with some photographs of her.
JDM has a style of writing that keeps the reader fascinated by the story.
A woman to him would be something owned, to use as he wished.”Just to be fair, I did find one comment which surprised me and seemed to me, to objectify women; Travis said “The Swedes grow some of the finest specimens of our times.” But Travis can be forgiven by me, out of 160 pages written in 1964, he was still far beyond some men I know today and this is almost 50 years later.
“Violence is the stepchild of desperation.” I've said my peace and offered support of my position that Travis McGee is not a misogynist.
I liked this the least of the Travis McGee books so far (it's # 4). The mystery started intriguingly but ended convolutedly. it seemed slapped together. But how many books did the man write in 1964? I can forgive.
Ah, the 1960's--back when a man could fend off a pack of "butch" lesbians with whacks to the ass from a golden putter.
Sometimes with MacDonald though, I reread the passage, maybe even twice, then I think about highlighting the passage and then finally I move on.
It's like the outcome is never in doubt and if the outcome is never in doubt then the story loses it's tension; not a good thing.
There is also this thing about McGee and his magical curative effect on women.
OK maybe a bit harsh, a bit too overdone, sort of like McGee. But the words, I love the words.
I mean the guy could write ...like a beach slumming angel.
Sordid is probably the best word.Here, McGee reluctantly takes a job from a beautiful movie star to track down her blackmailer.
And the movie star thinks she has him hooked.
and the blackmail is ugly.
and none of the people involved are very nice.
When he figures out what's happening, its too late to stop the dominoes that have started falling.He has completed the job, but what about the price of the fallout it has caused?
Definitely the smarmy side of life....But if all endings were nice and happy, McGee could turn jovial....Now that would be a crime.
I finished The Quick Red Fox this morning during a quiet period at work.. shhhhhh, don't tell anyone.. ;0) I think this one was a bit grimmer in subject matter than the others, even though so far they are all have a bit of an edge to them. I do like McGee's character, he's thoughtful, cynical, old-fashioned, treats women with respect and tough. It's a series I will continue. I'm glad that I was introduced finally to such an excellent series.
Synopsis/blurb.....From a beloved master of crime fiction, The Quick Red Fox is one of many classic novels featuring Travis McGee, the hard-boiled detective who lives on a houseboat.She’s the opposite of a damsel in distress: a famous movie star, very beautiful, very much in control of her life.
She’s just made one little mistake and now she needs Travis McGee to set it right.
Talk about the best.”—Mary Higgins ClarkSultry movie star Lysa Dean has gotten herself into a spot of blackmail, posing for naked photos while participating in a debauched party near Big Sur. If the pictures get out, Lysa’s engagement to her rich, strait laced fiancé doesn’t stand a chance.
Trav says ' I get the feeling that this is the last time in history when the offbeats like me will have a chance to live free in the nooks and crannies of the huge and rigid structure of an increasingly codified society.
Fifty years from now I would be hunted down in the street.'Well fifty years have passed and I think McGee would be safe in the street, but he was right on the money about a codified society.
Diagnostic codes, PIN numbers, passwords and on and on.McGee is also quite a poet.
What I learned? Never turn your back on a homicidal nymphomaniacal 18-year-old from Iceland, especially if she's carrying a handbag with a murderously heavy stone rabbit inside.
I wanted to like this one more than I actually did.It's far from bad and John D. MacDonald really nails his characters and Travis McGee's evolving relationship to his loneliness and to women, but the investigation takes forever to pan out and there's not that second gear the first couple books that that shift perception in the second half. Great era piece in many, many way, just not that great a mystery.
Way too much pillow talk. Highly unlikely denouement. Mmm ...
It turns out it just took a few novels for MacDonald to hit his stride.The plot of the Quick Red Fox, like all the McGee novels is almost silly melodrama.
The thing that makes these novels so captivating is the sense of time and place that MacDonald creates.
I love the typical poetic musing.
I love the characters...
not just McGee, though he is wonderful.
In this one, he creates an amazing vapid actress, a wonderful cast of villains and a strong, brave female companion.I find myself wanting to dive headlong into the fifth book in the series.
This time McGee refers to himself as 'the authentic man' and generally made me sad that he was a proud homophobic sexist pig.
Since it was written in 1964, I expect this kind of bs and make allowances because these are good mysteries and the writing is great.
I could have managed to look past the usual comments on the drudgery of the average schmuck's life in the suburbs (and his vastly superior life as an off-the-books opportunist and authentic man), if there was a good book to read, but not this time in my opinion.

My first Travis McGee in a few years. They haven't aged nearly as well as other contemporaneous stuff. Trav is a big lunk, and this was a bit of a plod. It reminded me most of the worst aspects of Fleming's Bond books, but at least there the dubious sexual politics was handled with a little more panache.
Makes you feel slimy and uncomfortable. It is a book, however.
The 4th novel in the 21-book Travis McGee series finds our self-professed lazy sleuth at the point of needing some dough once again so he welcomes a visit to his houseboat, “The Busted Flush” by one Dana Holtzer who has been sent by a potential client to engage his services.
I understand that this is not the last we will see of the Lysa Dean character either, for which I am glad, based on how this book ends.All in all, “The Quick Red Fox” was a nice read, fairly quick, and quite enjoyable as well as serving to further develop the overall character of Travis McGee himself.
Fine Travis McGee tale, centering on helping a Hollywood actress who has displayed more than she likes and has been blackmailed.Our protagonist is part shining knight and part scoundrel, with the wits of a sleuth and con man.
The first one was The Dreadful Lemon Sky. This one wasn't that bad, but not as good as Lemon Sky. McGee is hired to track down a blackmailer by a Hollywood actress who participated in a four day orgy.
Oh well not as good as Lemon Sky, but I have to come to learn that The Dreadful Lemon Sky is considered to be one of the best of the McGee novels.Nevertheless it wasn't a horrible read and I'm currently into The Green Ripper and A Tan And Sandy Silence and they're proving to be better reads.
I started reading John D. MacDonald books because he is the type of author that other authors I like refer to in their books. And up til now, I have really enjoyed reading his books. But HOLY CRAP - I had no idea what a homophobe this guy is. I ran right into a scene about lesbians that was so full of hate and vitriol that I just can't get past it. Sorry, Mr. MacDonald. I'm done.
I really liked my last Macdonald, but this take on the classic two-fisted private detective fell pretty flat to me, as do most of these kinds of stories post-Ross McDonald.
Hope John D. MacDonald isn't being forgotten. He is one of the best writers of the 20th century, and his focus on mysteries makes him one of the tops there too. The Quick Red Fox is well written with excellent characters and studies in human nature.
A famous movie star, a wild party, and photos lead to blackmail and murders. Can Travis find the culprit without loosing his own life? He follows the trail in several states, and finds both love and the murderer. The book has many twists and turns, and a culprit you do not expect. A fascinating look at the early 60's, and an exciting mystery, with Travis's look at love on page 150. I enjoyed the look back and the book!
And, of course, if you are already a fan of the McGee series, then you don't need me to tell you to read this one as well--you're going to anyway.So this review is for those who may never have read MacDonald's signature, colorful series, and may be wondering if it's for them or not.THE QUICK RED FOX was written fifty years ago, and was the fourth Travis McGee novel.
McGee holds viewpoints that resonated with a lot of men--views on the relationships between men and women, views on modern life, views on the environment, and at the same time was brawny, brainy and handsome enough to keep those views without the world knocking the stuffing out of him.
In reading the writing of the past, one occasionally finds the most hateful plots, which are traditionally called "a product of the time." In The Quick Red Fox, Travis McGee is looking for a blackmailer.
McGee tracks down the participants in the orgy.
Indeed, MacDonald finds every excuse not to depict the male participants in the orgy, except a ski instructor who has been completely feminized by his sexual abnormality.
McGee suggests that once you have an orgy, that most far out sexual extreme, you cannot turn back to normal life.
