https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24.In_a_Sunburned_Country
Lovely little adventure a la Bill Bryson No one knows, incidentally, why Australia's spiders are so extravagantly toxic; capturing small insects and injecting them with enough poison to drop a horse would appear to be the most literal case of overkill. Still, it does mean that everyone gives them lots of space. What an absolutely stunning  endorsement. As with his other traveling books, Bill Bryson hip hops his way across a country - visiting monuments and interviewing natives. We meet quirky ch
No one knows, incidentally, why Australia's spiders are so extravagantly toxic; capturing small insects and injecting them with enough poison to drop a horse would appear to be the most literal case of overkill.
As with his other traveling books, Bill Bryson hip hops his way across a country - visiting monuments and interviewing natives.
We meet quirky characters and Australian wildlife galore - from the poisonous snakes to the brutal kookaburra  Incidentally, did you know that the kookaburra likes to bash its prey until their bones have been pulverized?
Apparently its easier to digest that way...lovely...He also has quite a lot to say about Australians: 
I love Bill Bryson.
Bryson could write a book about the history of the individual rooms within the typical house and I would love it (he did and I did)!
So, when I discovered he'd written about his experiences while traveling Australia, I knew I'd found my next good read!
In a Sunburned Country takes in the Land Down-Under, from today traveling all the way back to its earliest historical findings.
Australia has countless ways to kill a person, what with all its deadly animals, so there's plenty of opportunity for hair-raising hilarity, especially considering Bryson's the sort of guy who could get himself savaged by a hedgehog.
Is this book going to be snarky Bill?
Is this going to be funny Bill?
Is this going to be funny, yet informative Bill?
Is this going to be snarky, yet informative Bill?
So good onya, mates and crikey and stuff!!Although it’s a topic that needs examining, Bryson’s writing on the treatment of Aborigines seems out of place and shrill compared with the Australian lovefest and repeated warnings about deadly jelly fish, killer spiders and gun-toting snakes.This was a buddy read with la doyenne of non-fiction buddy reads: Le Trish.
So when I found out that he had also written a travelogue of a journey across the country I may soon call home -- Australia -- I simply had to read it.Australia, for those of you who have never been there, is one of the most colourful places on earth.
By describing his own travels and those of early settlers, explorers and naturalists, he provides the reader with an appreciation for how vast and unwelcoming the country is, and how utterly unique.
For all its small flaws, though, Down Under (released in the US as In a Sunburned Country) is a fascinating read which has whetted my appetite for more Bryson travelogues.
I think I got this book because I forgot to send in the "do not send" notice in a book club.
I'm soooo happy that I didn't and I "made" myself read this.
This is a book about Bryson's trips (I believe he combines a few trips to "Oz" into this one book) to the really undiscovered island of Australia and his impressions of what he sees and who he meets.
I will look for more of his books and hope that he goes on more journeys to share with his reading audience.
It's full interesting information and ideas for places to visit and gave me loads of laughs.
I've read a few of his books in the past and I do find him to be an interesting companion, as I've travelled with him.
His books on visits to the UK in particular are great fun (even if he pokes fun at some places quite close to my heart).
I'd recommend this book to anyone thinking about a trip to Oz or readers who just enjoy tales of travel and amusing things that can happen when you're in the hands of a natural raconteur.
Trust me, this is an interesting place.Bryson gets into his fair share of scrapes during his Australian journey, and at one point he and his traveling companion are in danger of running out of both fuel and water while in the Outback.
At the time, Bryson didn't know what she meant by "bluey.""Is it dangerous?" I asked.Now, before we hear Deirdre's response to me as I stood there, vulnerable and abraded, shivering, nearly naked and half drowned, let me just quote from her subsequent article in the Herald's weekend magazine: While the photographer shoots, Bryson and his boogie board are dragged 40 meters down the beach in a rip.
Bryson travels around a country and gets drunk in hotel bars.2.
Bryson doesn't look or sound like one might expect from a travel writer; he's a fat middle-aged guy who grew up in Iowa, not some tanned and overtly fit mountain climber with flowing locks and a beard styled to look un-styled.
You can say “we are way out in the middle of nowhere” but communicating exactly what that means is more difficult than one can expect from even the best travel writer.
I liked In a Sunburned Country and I don't want to downplay Bryson's hard work and excellent narratives.
This was my first book by Bill Bryson as well as a great, educating read! I understand now, why Bill Bryson is so popular, because this non-fictional account of his trip to Australia is wonderful and humouristic from beginning till end. I already have 2 other books by Bill Bryson on hold at the library because this is definitely an author I'm curious to get much more familiar with.
He managed to combine important historical information about the continent's discovery and colonization with chuckle-worthy stories of him freaking out on land and in the water alike.Through his (mis-)adventures we're taught some of the local slangmeet the truly weird people (you can tell how much the place has shaped them) and get to travel from one side of Australia to the next - visiting city parks such as Perth's Kings Park, marvelling at sights such as Mount Uluruencountering living rocks and strange animals and plants along the way, while hearing about people meeting dreadful ends thanks to the most venomous animals on the planet (or for lack of / due to too much water).
The point is, we have to spend a goodly number of hours in the car.Thus, I have gotten into the habit of downloading a few audiobooks for the trip; and this year, Bill Bryson was my man.
Just as in A Short History of Nearly Everything, where he includes several ways that humanity might actually be made extinct, so here Bryson lets his taste for the macabre run rampant with Australia’s impressive collection of dangerous critters.
I need to know: is it good or bad to drink your own urine when you’re stranded in a hot environment with no water?
"That is of course the thing about Australia- that there is such a lot to find in it, but such a lot of it to find it in."“In a Sunburned Country” is a delightful read, and worth your time if for no other reason than that many of us will probably never get to Australia except in books and film and this text gets us there in its own way.
It was not a labor to pick up this book, and that is no small thing.Mr. Bryson is at times dismissive of people and some places, which I found a little jarring.
“In a Sunburned Country” is worth a read because it will expand your worldview.
His disbelief in the way they were treated in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries (they were often hunted down and shot, like animals), and his concern for their well-being today.*His description of the wonders of The Great Barrier Reef.
This panicky assessment took place over the course of perhaps three seconds, then my mask and snorkel filled with water and I started choking.”*His stories about men obsessed with exploring the horrendously hostile interior of Australia.
Also, Bill Bryson is a funny bastard, and in a really genuine way; I mean, he's not trying to be funny at all costs, it's just the way he is, and that's why this book is so pleasant.
The inhospitable deserts, the beautiful beaches, the huge distances; Bill Bryson gives you a feeling of what it's all like, and he's SPOT ON.My favourite bit?
Apart from a tendency among men of a certain age to wear knee-high socks with shorts, these people are just like you and me.
It's very informative, gives you plenty of info and covers just about everything-Straya.(*) - Actually my copy goes by the title of "Downunder".
Bill Bryson is a very funny travel writer and his voyage down under is quite funny. I did not really use it when I was in Australia though to be honest. It is more for entertainment than a guide book.
If you're out in the bush and a snake comes along, just stop dead and let it slide over your shoes."This, I decided, was the least-likely-to-be-followed advice I have ever been given.Yet he keeps repeating that "it's a wonderful country." And he means it--his affection for Australia and Australians shines through.
The Aborigines are the "oldest continuously maintained culture on Earth," but are also Australia's "great social failing." The Australians don't want to talk about them and Bryson describes people looking right through them and describes a history every bit as heartbreaking as that of Native Americans.
Bryson in Australia1 July 2017 I have something to admit – I’ve never been to Uluru. I have traveled to Europe, seen the Tower Brige and the Arc de Triumphe, I have wandered the gardens of Versailles and walked the plains where Hannibul slaughtered the Romans, but I have never been to Uluru, and it doesn’t seem to be all that likely I’ll be going there in the near future. The reason that I raise this is because in this book Byrson pretty much describe Uluru, a rock of which there is nothing like
Oh, and if there is anything that describes the Australian lifestyle it is this:	I would say that Bryson traveled all over the country, but the thing is that Australia is so huge, and there is so much here to explore, whether it be the struggles of the early explorers and colonists, or simply the natural beauty, that it would be impossible to do in a couple of trips, and from what I gathered from the book he was here for quite a while (which suggests that his wife must be very supportive of him going off and gallivanting around the world).
Let me count the ways...Better yet, read it for yourself and you'll discover your own reasons to love it.
He researched many books and questioned many people in preparation for his visits to Australia.
The book covers Australia's history, natural wonders and weather patterns, a whole host of deadly critters found nowhere else in the world, some really bizarre people both past and present, and his own hilarious and harrowing experiences Down Under.
All explored and recorded with a childlike sense of wonder and a funny man's sense of the absurd.How much do I love this book?
Australia is fascinating, and Bill Bryson has done an excellent job of telling us why.
I, for one, had no idea that Australia teemed with such an amazing and unique class of flora and fauna.
Or that so many of them can kill you in their own special way.I also had no earthly idea that Australia is so enormous.
After reading this book, I really want to travel to Australia at some point.
And I never would have known about it if Bill Bryson hadn't traveled through it so thoroughly and written about it so eloquently.
Alternatively titled "Down Under", this is Bill Bryson's take on Australia. Very funny in his own quirky way. I found myself learning about parts of Australia unknown to me (as well as discovering many new aspects of this huge continent) while being entertained in a very amusing way.
Oh, and the country is too damn big to see more than just a tiny bit, especially since the most inhabited parts, that is, the cities, are all dotted along the perimeter, and the middle is all desolate wasteland filled with dragons.
No, wait, the dragons were from Novik.When I got to that description of Bryson sleeping, I felt compelled to read some aloud to Veronica.
When she later read the same book, she was compelled to read part of that aloud to me.This might be an important finding about compatibility, or humor, or something.August 10,2000
if u were in the middle of absolute nowhere and got bitten..ur probably gonna have a bad time, but u would also just be airlifted lol and snakes dont like attack u lol they bite u if u mess with them lol.
CLARK AND HIS EXTRAVAGANT DRONING OUT OF MY LIFE FOREVER.” And so that was how I feel about Bryson’s almost arm chair travel book, which is where I think most of his writing of Australian history comes from, reading in the bars, instead of spending time exploring, like digging around in the bushes looking for those poisonous critters just to see them.
Basically, tons of information for us, people completely unfamiliar with this distant country, to finally learn something, anything about it beyond what's written in The Thorn Birds.What especially stood out for me:1) Australia in fact was originally forcefully populated by criminals from England (Kat wasn't joking).2) The country/continent is a dangerous place where you can expect to be poisoned by any insect and jelly fish or eaten by a crocodile.3) Australians love building big things in the shapes of other things - Big Lobster, for instance (once again, Kat wasn't kidding in her Giant Mango review)4) How Aborigines found their way to the continent of Australia tens of thousands years ago is still a mystery and they weren't even considered people worthy of being mentioned on Australian census up until 1970s.5) Non-whites weren't allowed to immigrate to Australia until the same 1970s....
So, if you go into this book remembering that not everything is as it seems, then maybe you will enjoy the ride and come out the other end not disliking my country.A final comment...I had an ENORMOUS issue with the disrespect Bill Bryson showed to the Aboriginal nation.
Bryson buys into the aboriginal issue half heartedly basing his opinions on a few points given him by second or third hand.
He visited an aboriginal museum in Alice Springs, and then proceeded to be critical and obnoxious about there only being photos of relics on display not real relics.
In a Sunburned Country is what it is.
Considering Bryson's repeated mention of the many things that can kill you and the possibility of drinking your own urine, it's a wonder that we come away with a desire to see Australia for ourselves.
Along with Bryson's familiar humor, he manages to capture the vastness of the land, the people, the diversity of nature, the beauty of this country.
He wraps it up so well in his quote:"Australia is an interesting place, it truly is and really is all I'm saying."Enough said.
This is an entertaining read, it truly is, just saying.
This was an Audible Daily Deal that I picked up a few months ago, and thoroughly enjoyed, as I have done most of Bryson's travelogues that I have read. Mixing the usual facts and anecdotes about the country in question with his experiences while travelling there using his trademark dry humour, Bryson keeps the reader both informed and entertained, as is customary with his work - testament to why he is so widely read and popular as an author. One that I'd definitely recommend.
While in Paris, we met a fellow traveller who happened to hail from Australia, and over a modest dinner in a cozy café, we asked him about his homeland and we answered his questions about what it was like to be from Canada -- this was a time when Reagan was in his second term and, with the Iran-Contra stuff coming to light, the invasion of tiny Grenada, and his government trying to force our country to become a launching base for ICBMs against the USSR, we expressed the viewpoint common amongst our University-student friends: we were scared to death of America and lived in fear of the war-machine crouching just to the south of the longest unprotected border in the world.
Still he brings to life a place most of us do not know much about.
Sadly, you get nothing on Tasmania, a gaping hole in his travels, IMHO.At times, Bryson paints incredible word pictures of the beauty of forests populated by unique creatures and plants.
And, by the way, filled with creatures like snakes, insects, fish, crocs, lizards, etc that want to kill you or, at least, make your day very uncomfortable.
The book is not all goodness and laugh-out-loud funny.
Australia and the Australians get 5 Stars but Bryson only gets 3 Stars.
As mentioned, he left out Tasmania, which I really want to know about.
He speaks with quite a condescending tone, going on and on about how backwater everyone is and how quaint it is that they're all stuck in 1958.(view spoiler)[For example, early on in the book, Bryson gets a chance to go boogie boarding in a gorgeos, ecologically diverse ocean.
Bryson goes on and on about how he's only checking out the back of the store to be thorough in his "research" and how he would never visit such a place in America.
That's basically it.This book is told as a sort of true life story of his adventures through Australia and he gives a brief history of the places he visits, interesting anecdotes, and personal stories about his experiences in Australia.
the people who ended up getting sent to Aussie (New South Wales as it was known then) were people who did things like stealing cucumbers, books, vagrants and other stupidly mild crimes.
Unlike most places where you are lucky to get a few bones from the same specimin.Australia also has a shit ton of things that will kill you, and people have just seemed to have adapted to it and become a tougher sort of person.
