https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1173844.The_Metaphysical_Foundations_of_Modern_Science
After spending a summer at the cottage on Lake Michigan with my little brother, Fin, my co-parent, Martin, and I drove his Galaxy 500 up to the area of Hayward, Wisconsin to spend a week visiting Bill and his girlfriend, Terry, who had spent their summer at the cottage of his parents and had invited us, months before, to visit.We arrived to several surprises.
I moved to the pier on the lake.And, as one does at such times, I turned to philosophy, namely E.A. Burtt's doctoral dissertation on the faith assumptions originally motivating and currently underlying the physical sciences--a book which I find has had considerable impact on my subsequent thinking about the sciences.
this is a later addition: i can see through this summary how husserl was so interested in putting philosophy on a scientific basis, how he could be, as our entire western culture, so convinced this is the way of thinking not 'theoretical', not 'experimental', but source of way of thinking that describes an ontology of being always already in the world by referring to what we experience.
I am quite baffled by the fact that I had never heard of Burtt's book in my prior discussions of 20th-century post-positivist philosophy of science.
This book is primarily a competent refutation of the positivist doctrine by means of an analysis of the metaphysics of 17th century thinkers.
More specifically, the Galilean doctrine of primary and secondary qualities (as well as its subsequent evolution in French and British natural philosophy) sets the stage for dualism: on the one hand, the world is intrinsically geometrical; on the other hand, minds resist mathematical treatment.
As the French historian of science Alexander Koyre once wrote, "[t]wo worlds: this means two truths.
دو کتاب برای تغییر مسیر اندیشیدن به تاریخ و فلسفه علمیکی که همیندومی هم خوابگردها
الكتاب يبين الافتراضات الميتافيزيقية المتضمنة في مفهومنا للعلم الحديث. عبر تناول أعمال شخصيات رئيسية ساهمت في تغيير مفهومنا للكون، مثل كوبرنيكوس، غاليلو، ديكارت، وأخرى كان لها تأثير على نيوتن، يوضح الكاتب تطور هذه الافتراضات لتصل إلى صورتها شبه النهائية عند نيوتن.
Many regard philosophy and science as entirely separate fields, but Burtt makes a case through extensive engagement with primary sources that science requires a metaphysical stance, one which suffers from unthinking dogmatism when it is not critically reflected upon and analyzed (which always happens when we assume science can be done without philosophy).
In my Junior year at The University of Wisconsin I took a History of Science survey course and, while Burtt's book was not on the syllabus, I read this book as additional reading for the class.
Both a criticism and a history of the changing world view due to the revolution in science experienced during the lives of those thinkers, it assists in understanding both their methods and accomplishments.
I enjoyed this work as it spanned the thought of two of my areas of interest - philosophy and the history of science.
but, definitely gave me a better understading on how science (philosophy of) drifted from theology.
irony is that this drift has left the science w/ whole new set of problems to deal w/ and new ideals to be assumed, unscientifically, of course.
one of them is, 'there is simply no science possible of the realm of sensible phenomena unless the trustworthiness of our immediate perception of spatial directions and relations be taken for granted.' - p.
topic of drift between science and theology always interested me.
but, i dread having to learn philosophy in order to stay on this topic...
Everything that comes before leads up to Newton who, we are told, is the culmination of the new metaphysics introduced by Copernicus and carried along different paths by Kepler, Galileo, Descartes, Hobbes, et al.
On the basis of what was presented, I take it that Newton functioned merely as the last step before the thorough mechanization of our image of the cosmos, and this mainly because once the mathematics was worked out for such an obvious and powerful force as gravity, future scientists simply had no need for Newton’s confused intermingling of science and theology.
In other words, because Newton's philosophical contribution was negligible (or confused), his successors needed only to look to his mathematics.
As I understand this book Burtt is distressed that the world view that says that the only valid description of reality must ultimately be mathematical.
Newton is the central figure in this story, but Burtt starts earlier to give an interesting account of how the Aristotelian qualitative world picture was overthrown.
I think that Burtt's argument that we should consider the values at work in the selection of the explanatory models used by scientists has been taken up by many since Burtt.
While this may make Burtt seem 'old hat,' his passion, attention to detail and clarity of exposition make this a book still worth reading.
If you were moved by Lewis's Discarded Image, Burtt's work will take what you love poetically and bring it down to earth with all the weight it deserves.

I have to confess that this was one of the hardest reads of my life so far. Nevertheless, I was able to extract a superficial understanding of the way science evolved from the middle ages to our present day. What was missing for me was the exercise of previous philosophy readings. I felt my base was not there in the first place, so understanding this critique while lacking the vocabulary to decode it was pretty much an impossible task. Still, I may read this again later when I'll be older and wiser.
A very good piece of work for anyone wanting to delve into the history of science. He shows how modern scientific thinking resulted from a change in the view of reality itself ascribing all that is to mathematics. There was also a complete change in the opinion of the human mind. Even for those who still believed in God He became merely the first cause. Mankind, as well, lost his place above nature. It is a fascinating study of how different scientists today really think in ways vastly different from their predecessors several hundred years ago.
Another very tough read. Written in the 1930's but an excellent explanation of the birth of Naturalism and Reductionism through Galileo, Kepler, Decartes, Newton and others. As it turns out, it was quite sensible to move towards dualism and the "death of God" as Nietzsche put it :). I am convinced that many people who throw around the word "Dualism" (as it is so popular today) don't really understand from whence it came, nor what it truly means. Me too, but now I do.
Read it more than 20 years ago and it was foundational to my understanding of science as an ideology/culture/institution. I want to build a course around this book, perhaps with a title like, "The culture of modern science."
from ILL fascinating
Excellent contribution.
