https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/547564.The_Secret_of_Spiggy_Holes
Like for other series of hers, Enid Blyton earns her spurs during description of coastlines and caves and secret passages.
So it's confirmed that Enid Blyton is a better storyteller than me.
The main character of the previous book, The Secret Island, makes a cameo here.
As I've always said, these books can give an adult thriller a run for its money in terms of stakes and twists.
There were two or three problems whose resolutions prompted me to give this book a well deserved four stars.
I'll be reading more of this series soon.
I have read this book umpteen times in my childhood. And it was just as interesting as it was when I started it again a couple of days ago. This is about 4 children falling into a mystery and helping a kidnapped prince escape, while eating lots of goodies in between. Was Enid Blyton a foodie? all her books are chocful of treats and I feel hungry whenever I read those books.
This second book of the "secret" series is much weaker than the first. The first was different and more creative than the other Enid Blyton books, but the remainder of the series falls into her usual pattern. Which is a pattern I love, obviously, but I was surprised and happy about how different The Secret Island was that I guess I hoped it would hold through for the series.
Nice adventure and flows well
I absolutely LOVED this book. It used to be my most favorite book for a LONG time!
Gosh! I loved this book as a child. It was the one that got me into reading novels and loving adventure stories.
What stands out in her books is the independence of the children and their great abilities for problem solving.
One thing I really noticed in this book was the heavy focus on food - it's hard to believe that these children didn't end up as greatly overweight at the end of their summer holidays!But, with the independence of the children comes the inevitable consideration of absent parenting, and leaving children to their own devices.
In this instance, after boarding school, the four children are sent to spend their summer holidays with strangers while their parents are off pursuing some matter of their own.
Bearing in mind that I'm a teenager rereading childhood favourite, I can say that I was rather disappointed with the second of Blyton's Secret Series.
I often reread The Secret Island as it is one of my favourite childhood books but this is the first time since a kid that I've decided to reread the whole series.Blyton definitely captured the adventurous aspect as she often does.
When reading The Secret Island, I am always hooked despite knowing exactly what is going to happen.Nevertheless, this book is a pleasant-enough tale and the return of to their secret island inflicted some much-needed nostalgia.
I was a voracious reader as a child having entire series of "The Baby Sitter's Club", "Sweet Valley Kids", and "Sweet Valley High School", but nothing sparked my imagination like Enid Blyton.
I would recommend her to anyone and everyone who liked reading and asked what I was reading.
The way her short stories sparked my imagination impacted me more than I let on.
They were parables like Disney animated movies in printed words and I would get lost in them for hours until my mother would call me for dinner.
I would put Enid Blyton to the level of Roald Dahl and Dr. Suess.
One of the first books I ever read. I loved it then and I love it now.I had a great emotional attachment to the Arnold children and Jack, so this may colour my review.This is a book about a charming Cornwall cove, interesting old houses, caves and secret passages, exciting derring-do involving kidnappers, an exotic foreign prince, and children messing about in boats. What more can a child want?The name "Spiggy" is a funny one, in several senses of the word and it is tempting to suggest that it is a corruption-by-time of the respectable Italian name Respighi.
The second book in the series was a delight to read. It was fun revisiting with Jack and Mike and Peggy and Nora. And then the surprise treat at the end... living on the secret island of the first book. That was a hoot rediscovering all their old haunts... nooks... and cranies. Loved the book... Enid Blyton truly was a great storyteller. One thing though... some might not like the very racist comment of black faces. But if you take it as a good story to read... then you will not mind it... much!
I read and reread this book as a child along with my older sister. When Mr10 turned 5 we began our own journey into the secret series and now we own and love them all. Fast forward and now Mr7 is enjoying a chapter each night. Sometimes it's very hard to stop after one chapter.. the danger, the mystery.. the adventure... so very well writing and warming... thoroughly recommend...
I loved this book more than I would have loved it on ordinary days as it helped me go through a dark and shitty week (read: I lost my phone and I felt like I was living in Dark Ages, hence "dark", and shitty because I have exams in a few days). We're slaves to technology, for sure. I've now read two books of Enid Blyton's Secret series and admire them both equally.
It seems that my 8 yr old daughter enjoys Enid as much as I did as a kid! Have loved reading this with her.
My first Enid Blyton, which I must read and re-read countlessly.
The Perfect comfort read especially when it's an old 1946 cloth bound edition with original illustrations.
I really enjoyed this book, i loved all the twists and turns of the plot and the mystery and excitement of it all!! Really enjoyed it but i did find a few bits a bit predictable.
I do love these stories but, reading it with 21st Century eyes, it's racist and the kids are spoilt and rude.
Intriguing but not as good as her first book in the secret series.
When I was a child, I Read and Reread The Secret Island and its sequels for years.
: likely a bit dated now but what a fun read!I have just reread the books in the series as an adult.
These books were written in the 1940s, so perspectives, behaviors portrayed are obviously different.
There is a little "racism" "sexism" but only because of the times it was written.
The age of the publication does not change the fact they are well written, fun, and enjoyable.
I recently purchased the entire series.I glad there are reprints.
Just about any later novel with secret caves and passages, signalling from towers, and foreign princes who need to come to England for a proper, decent education to remove their horrible foreign ways, can be traced back to The Secret of Spiggy Holes.In their pure and unrefined form, these ideas still make a great children's adventure story with plenty of excitement and suspense.
However, I do think it's rather a shame that the previous book in this series ended with the children's parents promising that they would never sod off to God-knows-where in their aeroplane again, and this one starts with the children's parents having sodded off to God-knows-where (well, Ireland) in their aeroplane again.
You can never rely on parents, especially in Enid Blyton's world.
Last year, I returned to Enid Blyton after a gap of many years with this book.
After that went on to read over 40 books.
Did not like the book much when I read it the first time but totally loved it reading it a second time.
Think one needs to get into the right mood for Enid Blyton in order to enjoy her stories.
Now reading this book in a series after the first book, it was kind of fun - it gives you more background and opportunity to connect with the characters.
But the stories are still fun.
Setelah membaca serunya buku pertama dari seri 4 Serangkai, Pulau Rahasia, kemudian membaca seri keduanya ini agak kecewa juga. Karena saya tidak terlalu berharap petualangan yang bertemu dengan kriminal. Mungkin kalau tidak terlalu jauh berbeda saya akan memberi bintang 4 atau 5, tapi karena tidak sesuai harapan saya maka secara subjektif saya memberi bintang 3 saja. Bukan karena buku ini tidak terlalu bagus ya..Harapan saya dari kisah ini sebenarnya hanya petualangan anak-anak saja dan bertahan hidup di alam.
Thankfully I could read books one and two in this series with no interruption, and I did so this lazy Sunday afternoon.
I knew from reading the Killimooin book, about the character Paul, so I was expecting him to come along.
I half wished he hadn't, in comparison to 'Secret Island', Killimooin is a little mediocre, so I didn't expect as much from this book as the first.
I think dear old Enid should have left the four children as they were, and not included Paul in the package, but they're still pretty good books, and by my hero, Enid.
I loved this book almost just as much as The Secret Island!! It was interesting to read how the children could save Paul from his uncle. It was very very secretive...and mysterious. I love this book!!!
A fairly standard Enid Blyton mystery, which of course means that it was great fun to read. I look forward to the rest of the books in the series - and wonder if each of them will also involve another trip to the secret island of the first book.
After I read The Secret Island, I read this book. Honestly the best sequel I have ever come across! If you liked the first book, read this one because it's absolutely fantastic!!
I liked the book as it was smugglers and rescueing so it had a mysterious and most inportantly dangerous feel which i liked a lot..............
Anything by Enid Blyton is automatically awesome. A sea-side mystery by Enid Blyton is double awesome. 500 stars!
i liked the book .....but it is'nt as good as sum of the R.L Stine books....(ofcoure R.L Stine is a better writer)
