https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/878129.My_Friend_Maigret
Surly Chief Inspector Maigret broods and stymies his usual freewheeling style because he’s being observed by Inspector Pyke, a Scotland Yard detective fluent in French sent over for the express purpose of studying Maigret’s methods.
Maigret worries about the stolid Pyke even as the pair leave cold, rainy Paris for Porquerolles and its balmy Mediterranean weather to investigate the murder of a feckless fisherman who was bragging about his friendship with Maigret on the very night of his death.Maigret seems grumpier and more self-conscious than usual; however, I enjoyed the novel, which — despite the beautiful, sun-dappled setting — was slightly sad.
A man brags about his friendship with Inspector Maigret at a bar on a Mediterranean island (Porquerolles) and then turns up dead.
Inspector Maigret is called up to solve the murder.
The island is filled with eccentric people - a talented painter and his runaway lover, a heiress and her young spineless lover, an English Major who has served in India, an unmarried man and his domineering mother, a prostitute and many local sailors.
It is an unusual murder mystery.
A website recommended this as one of the best books featuring Inspector Maigret while another one had this at number four.
Most of the book is about Maigret observing people on the island and competing with the Englishman.
From BBC radio 4 Extra:Georges Simenon's detective creation, Jules Maigret, brings his unique style to investigating crimes.Plot:Maigret reçoit la visite de Mr. Pyke, agent de Scotland Yard, désireux de connaître ses fameuses méthodes.
Mais aucun cas intéressant ne se présente à Paris.
He turned, a year earlier, with Jean Richard for some unspeakable scenes in "The Life annuity" Pierre Tchernia, where the two men camped a tasty duo of small-time gangsters ...
MY FRIEND MAIGRET.
Georges Simenon.
***1/2.From the rear cover: “When a small-time crook – a drunk, thug, pimp, and thief – is murdered on a small Mediterranean island just after he was heard boasting loudly about his policeman “friend” Maigret, Inspector Maigret is compelled to leave Paris to investigate the crime.
But all of them have secrets they prefer to keep hidden.”Life on the island comes to a halt when Maigret arrives on the scene, in company with a counterpart of his from Britain’s Scotland Yard.
It’s amazing how the thinking between Maigret and his British counterpart is so similar.
Such rich characterization!
A pretty good Maigret, one of a number out of Paris, showing Maigret's unease at the southern heat, and af having a visiting Scotland Yard detective observing his methods. Plenty of characters, atmosphere, and details of an island that is a backwater, as are the people on it.The GR blurb:'When a small-time crook is murdered on the Mediterranean island of Porquerolles it transpires he had fervently declared his friendship with Maigret beforehand. The famous French detective, with a Scotland Yard observer in tow, must travel there to Solve the case.'
Oh sure, there's a murder and an investigation, and we eventually get to know a good deal about the victim and about the suspects, but above all else, we get to know Maigret.Scotland Yard has heard about the famous Maigret, and with the permission of the Paris police has assigned an inspector Pike to shadow Maigret and observe his methods.
Of course, Maigret was not a good friend of his, but had been acquainted with him years earlier, in the course of a criminal investigation.Maigret and Pike go to the island.
The more I read this novel, the more it felt like an episode of the 1970s TV detective series 'Columbo', albeit with a Mediterranean flavor.
So, in company with a French-speaking Scotland Yard detective (named Pike, who was visiting Maigret's jurisdiction from the UK to observe his counterpart's investigative methods), Maigret travels by train to a small Mediterranean island off the coast of Southern France, where the murder had taken place.
The story unfolds in an almost leisurely fashion as if in keeping with the languid atmosphere of the island.
With seventy-five novels featuring the detective inspector Maigret, it stands to reason that they all can't be dazzling. This story is well told, with lovely writing, but the plot is thin. However, any time spent in the company of Maigret is time well spent.
Inspector Maigret is assigned a shadow from Scotland yard as he he sent from Paris to the south of France to investigate the murder of a criminal who claimed to be his friend. Everyone in the community is eccentric and offbeat. Maigret is forced to be more outgoing than usual.
probably better to read simenon SPARINGLY
This has never been Maigret's way but he has an unlimited resource of police officers to do background checks to fashion him with information or confirm his suspicions.A chance phone call has the Chief Inspector and his English companion off to the south of France to investigate the death of a crook previously known to Maigret who having boasted of his friendship with the great detective was subsequently murdered.We are presented with an island community that is contained and within its residents the murdered must reside.A clever story where Maigret always seems to be holding back and becoming self aware.
Questa volta lo scenario è diverso dal solito clima uggioso del nord della Francia.
Un omicidio viene commesso nell’isola di Porquerolles, di fronte a Tolone, nelle calde acque del Mediterraneo, dopo nove giorni in cui il mistral ha battuto con violenza le sue coste.
Sembra impossibile che fra le case bianche e rosa ombreggiate dagli eucalipti e le mimose, sulla piazza in cui gli abitanti trascorrono sonnolente giornate sotto il sole battente, tra un bicchiere di vino all’Arche de Noè e una partita a bocce, sia stato commesso un omicidio.
Ecco, questo è il “metodo Maigret”, che non fallisce neanche questa volta.
Maigret is called to solve a murder on an island off the French Riviera.
Mr. Pyke of Scotland Yard is also following the case, to see how Maigret does the job.
Maigret is further limited by the balmy weather of the island which makes him sleepy.
Everyone has remained on the island and the suspects are quickly narrowed down.
The case is solved with a surprising twist at the end.
This is the 20th novel I've read about this French detective and I've enjoyed them all.
A quick read.
Laura says: "Depardieu had a small participation in the 1973 TV version!! " I shall get Mr Projectionist on the case.Thanks Laura
Eine andere Funktion lässt Simenon der Insel nicht angedeihen, denn er tut einfach das, was er so wunderbar kann: er zeigt die Menschen.Maigret ist genervt.
Und so bleibt Simenon seinem Stil treu und weiß damit doch zu bezaubern.Ein Maigret Krimi ist wie ein Glas guter Wein – es spricht alle Sinne an und man muss es genießen, um das volle Aroma zu riechen und zu schmecken, man kann den Wein nicht einfach hinunter schütten.
Zwar bringt ihn der englische Besuch ein wenig aus dem Tritt, doch Maigret findet seine Methode wieder und weiß den Täter zu überführen.
So, at the beginning of this story, it rains for days in Paris although it is the month of May. Luckily, Maigret gets the case set in southern France (although - it is not exactly Le Sud, which is, paradoxically, more to the West; more precisely it is French Riviera).
The year is 1949, only four years after the end of the World War Two, but nobody seems to be aware of it.
There is Maigret's former female friend from demi-monde, now matronly overweight, who nevertheless changes her clothes in the very small hotel room in his presence.
So this book may be about a murder, but in practice it is all about Maigret - his mindset, his frustrations, his anger, and amusingly his insecurities and lack of confidence - several times he reflects on how he got to his present exalted status.
This follows the previous book in many ways, with Simenon filling in the Maigret back story.
Inspector Pyke is a funny chap - Simenon plays with the character - Pyke befriends a British ex-pat who went to the same school as him, and he winces as Maigret strikes a suspect, clearly disapproving of the French "guilt before innocence" principle.
Maigret gets a call from the police on the tiny Mediterranean island of Porquerolles that a man claiming to be a friend of Maigret has been murdered.
The island has a slow pace of life and if inhabited by native fishermen and a bunch of ex-pat denizens of varying degrees of wealth and indolence, such as an old English baron, a widowed whiskey heiress and a hippy Dutch painter.
i found this to be my favorite Maigret so far, with wonderful, wry, descriptions of the island and it's inhabitants and delightful analysis of the inspector's thoughts about himself and the English detective.
A short detective novel that is slightly out of the ordinary.
Maigret is being shadowed by an inspector from Scotland Yard, trying to learn the methods of the famous detective.
Instead of focusing on the procedural aspects of the central case therefore, we focus on the insecurities of Maigret as he tries to keep up appearances in front of the other man.
He worries about how his methods will look to an outsider, and whether he is living up to his own reputation.
It adds a little extra element to what is otherwise a standard example of crime fiction which develops in quite a straightforward way.
After watching a couple of Rowan Atkinson's Inspector Maigret movies, I looked for information on George Simenon, the author of over seventy Maigret novels. My Friend Maigret was first published in 1949 and like other Maigrets on B&N's bookshelf, a slender tome. Thought it was a good read and can recommend it if you're looking for something different from the current work in the mystery genre. I also read Maigret in New York (1947). I struggled getting through that one. Found it rather slow moving.
Reading Maigret books is like getting a long, mental massage, or practicing meditation of some sort. They're both stimulating and relaxing at the same time.I haven't read a bad Maigret book yet, but this one is especially good because he travels to the French Riviera to solve a crime, so there's a fish out of water aspect which makes it all the more fun.
French: M. Pyke from Scotland Yard visits the PJ to observe Maigret's police "techniques". A murderon the island of Porquerolles allows them to leave the cold and rainy weather of Paris and travel tothe south of France to solve the case. Classic Maigret.
The writing was good, even in translation. The story seemed weak.
Honestly, something sour.
It's Maigret so it starts at 5 stars.Setting beautifully described, feel we get a bit more of Maigret in this one. Plot bit on the thin side.Definitely still worth the time though
No doubt a five star if not an abridged translation.
PerhapsSimenon is getting tired. Book seemed to drag. Pyke’s role seemed contrived. Ending abrupt and not very satisfying.
genre murder mystery... nothing great.
Every musing that Maigret internalises, every ponderous interaction, interview and deduction is doubly dissected as the Frenchman considers how his investigation is being perceived by his English shadow.It is a fiendishly clever plot device that not only allows the reader to see Maigret doubt his own investigative abilities when they are scrutinised, both externally by Pyke, and internally by himself, but also provides an insight into the deeply introspective nature of the detective profession.
Pyke, meanwhile, observes the Frenchman's methods, initially skeptically, but grows to become as suitably impressed as the reader is with Maigret's instinctive dissection of proceedings.The novella is a geographic jolt in proceedings for the ponderous, pipe-smoking policeman, but no less satisfying in its execution and conclusion because of this.
