https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/121007.Showdown_At_Yellow_Butte
This is the second book that Louis L'Amour wrote under his own name (the seventh book he had published). I liked "Hondo" better, but this one was very good. Reading L'Amour is a way of experiencing the Old West as it was (except perhaps for the blinding speed of all the gunslingers). You learn so much about the times, and the story is always a good one. This is another good read by L'Amour. Recommend it to all who are fans of Westerns.
He helps evict those who aren’t legally supposed to be there, he gets paid, and it’s on to another town somewhere.
But things are never as simple as they initially seem.
There is the silly insta-love thing between Tom and Connie; I never understood why someone with L,Amour’s talents would fall back on simplified insta-love techniques, but so he does in this book.What’s to recommend it?
This is designed to be a quick read that moves you on to the next book.
I noticed this with a few other L'Amour books I've read: Within twenty pages the reader finds themselves dumped in a sea of names with little to no background as to who they are.
Worse, as the book goes on, some switch from good to bad and vice versa.
Here's further credit I can give for the William Johnstone clan and their westerns that are often peppered with lots of characters as I've yet to get so confused.However, I thought the story was a good one even if I did get lost at times.
Good story.
L'amour deserves the following he has.
If I knew more about guns, some of this would make more sense to me.
I just can't tell, from a description of the guns they carry, which fighter has the advantage.
This was fun, and the next time I'm in the mood for some light reading, I may pick up another L'amour.I finally borrowed this book from a friend, since I couldn't find it in bookstores.
I'm about halfway through.
So far, so good.
Liked this one. Only drawback I found was there were a lot of characters that I felt were added in rather quickly. At times I was a little a loss for who was who on some of the minor characters. Besides that, it was another good Louis L'Amour book.
An early L'Amour originally written under the pen-name of Jim Mayo. Man is hired to run out some squatters but quickly realizes he is on the wrong side. This early book is not quite up to the standards that L'Amour would later set, but it is still fairly good. Recommended to western fans.
I needed a dose of a good western tale to listen to while butchering a deer. I knew I couldn't go wrong with a Louis L'Amour story.
I listened to this one and quickly realized that it was the same story as Showdown at the Hogback. I like the narrator for that version better than this one.
Roger, Village patron, June 2018, 5 stars:Tom Kedrick, mercenary soldier/cowboy, finds himself possibly on the wrong side of a politically infused range war.
The story was fairly good. The characters weren't nearly as good as the characters in the previous book Hondo.
Great read from a great author.
Like all of Lous L'Amour book's this was a fun read. He is so descriptive and makes reading his books very fun. This was a fun and easy read.
The writing is so crisp, the storytelling so straightforward.So a few nights ago I was looking for something to read and the library was closed, so I went over to my Louis L'Amour shelf (all of them in hardback!) and started looking for a title I hadn't read in a while, I settled on "Showdown at Yellow Butte".Tom Kedrick, soldier for hire, had been brought in by a friend to help a respectable company clear out the squatters on their land.
I love these Louis L'Amour stories. They start quickly, and the characters are interesting!
A pretty good L'amour book, very much in keeping with his usual western adventures.
Most of L'amour's usual suspects are here: the tough-but-fair gunslinging hero, the too-good-to-be-true well-bred, super-refined woman who has learned to love the land of the West (the northern New Mexico desert in this one), even the sketchy lass who wants nothing more than to get the heck out of this God-forsaken place and will sidle up to anyone who can promise a ticket back East.It's got a bit of mystery, and a cast of tough common folk unfairly branded as outlaws by the money-grabbing bigwigs of the territory.
Of course, as is generally the case with L'amour, the day is saved, the good guy gets the girl, and the bad guys either learn the error of their ways or get a pistol slug for their crimes.
Many of Louis L'Amour books were made into Western movies or TV episodes in the fifties and sixties.
Ah, simpler, more innocent times!L'Amour, like Zane Grey, paints great pictures on the Southwest landscapes.
Maybe I saw one or two too many cowboy movies, but I can visualize most of what L'Amour describes, and they're usually great scenes.
Must admit - I love the hero shooting the gun out of the hand of the bad guy...like THAT could ever happen!
But at least in L'Amour's books, the bad guy winds up with a bloody gap where his thumb used to be.
Recently, my husband and I took a long road trip out west.
He checked out some books from the library to help pass the time, including this audio book.
I had never read any L'Amour books before, but considering our destination I thought this could be fun.
The narrator did an exceptional job of telling the story; we were able to keep track of the characters by change in voices.
The story contained classic elements: heroes, villains, greed, gunfights, and a touch of romance.
Nice, casual read...easy to follow along...I may even grab another L'Amour book next time I'm at the library.
It's the standard Louis but with a little bit of a twist. When you think it's all over there are two more end chapters you don't see coming.
My 51st Louis L'Amour novel written in 1953 under the pseudonym Jim Mayo and a little better than most. There was a good guy and a bunch of bad guys and this one actually had two beautiful women and there was the shootout. But in addition to the standard routine, there were a few twists and turns and vivid descriptions of the western landscape to keep the page turning fast. It does seem, however, that L'Amour's better books have the worst names.
This novel is based off the serial novel "Showdown at Hogback." The Hogback (and better story) can be found in the collection or serials under the title "The Trail to Crazy Man"The main plot is that a former army man takes a job of getting nesters off the land. When he shows up, he quickly realizes that his company is shady and that the nesters are good people. He changes sides and the fighting starts :)
If you like stories about good guys who kick butt and get the girl and the bad guys who get it in the end, read Louis L'amour. He also has a knack for describing scenery, and every canyon, spring, etc. he mentions truly exists. He was a great authority on the American Wild West which is not quite how Hollywood often portrays it.
What can I say, I listened to it on a cross-country road trip with my dad. And I was actually pleasantly surprised. I didn't race to the library for the next thrilling installment upon its completion, but it did pass the time on a long drive.
In the range wars of New Mexico, Tom Kedrick is hired to drive the outlaws out of the territory off government lands set aside for the Indians. He soon learns that he might be on the wrong side in a swindle.
Recently read my first Louis .L'Amour book "Last of the Breed." This book was not the same caliber as it, but I like Westerns and enjoyed the storyline of this book well enough to read it within a few days.
Classic L'Amour. Predictable story line but fantastic description of the setting and characters. Originally published as "Showdown on the Hogback" under the name Jim Mayo as a serial in the Western Pulps . Any L'Amour fan should read.
A fun little Western a bit predictable.
I think it is very stupid. It shows a book then says want to read then rate this book. How in the hell can you actually rate a book if you can't open it to read?
Good one!
The second western from the master. Always loved these books and they make excellent repeat reads.
I found this to be a very good read.Characters were well written and believeable.
