https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12971616-the-rise-of-nine
What I want to happen:- I want Four (aka John) to ditch Sarah and hook up with Six. - I want Sam to be alright. - I want Seven to fall off the face of the Earth (I really don't like her).- I want to meet Numbers Five and Eight. - I want Sam's father found.But mostly, I want Nine to be narrating this book with Four. :DCannot wait!!!
09/25/2011asdfghjkllkjhgf I can't wait for this book.The ending of The Power of Six left me wanting so much more.
D:I really hope Four can just forget about Sarah though, because he's so much better with Six. 09/26/2012WELL, for some reason I thought this book was a trilogy, and up until the last page I thought I had been reading the final book in the series.
It actually works better this way, because as I was getting closer to the end, I kept thinking, "Are they really gonna end this series without even meeting up with Five?" I felt kinda gypped.
“I don't like bullies. No one has a right to take or to hurt just because they can.”  This is unexpectedly awesome and hilarious ! The Rise of Nine is much more different than The Power of Six, the story itself is a gem, it's full of fights and twists. Number Nine became my favorite character, instead of John, he brings colors to this series. Number Nine is such a badass hero when he tries to do something and even it turns out unsuccessful, he still has a way to entertain the others with his fa
Number Nine became my favorite character, instead of John, he brings colors to this series.
Number Nine is such a badass hero when he tries to do something and even it turns out unsuccessful, he still has a way to entertain the others with his failure.
“Why couldn't you turn into a fireball when we were on the same team!”
The friendship set this book on fire, the way Number Nine deals with problems is cool.
I liked Pittacus' ideas in this book, he wrote male characters better than female and did something I couldn't believe that it would happen in this book.
Okay, so I wasn't going to make any predictions on this book, but then I started reading some others thoughts and it has got me fired up enough to want to post a few speculations...As anyone in my Intro to Lit class could tell you, I rarely share other peoples'opinion on a character and so this should prove interesting.
I didn't see everything coming, but I was generally right.First, a few thoughts about the book in general:Where to begin....don't take this wrong way but  is Pittacus Lore a girl?
First of all, John/Four should stay with Sarah. I don't care what you say, they were good together in the first book. I don't see why everyone is hating on Sarah. She made one bad choice which we don't even know if it was her. Every relationship has its ups and downs.It will show people to over come challenges with their significant others. Second, Sam and Six should get together. This would by my ideal ending for the series at lest relationship wise.
I want this now.I really hope John gets with Six, because she is a thousand times better than Sarah.
After reading it  okay here we go:Four: awesome as everFive: still MIASix: pretty much the best, I love herSeven: I don't hate her anymore...
she's finally stepping it up and helping out!Eight: I LOVE HIM.
He has the best Legacies, BY FAR.Nine: he's pretty awesome.
HE BETTER BE IN THE NEXT BOOK.Sarah: I was hoping we could get through one book without her showing up...
I guess not.Also, I couldn't stop laughing anytime Six or Marina said something like "Grab my Chest!" It was just so...
"Hold onto my Chest!"
Well... this was less epic.. than the first 2 books.
K so guys really........seven was not that bad...i really liked her.
Nine is ok, i didnt notice anything super bad about him but for some reason i just want John to be better than him.
Actually i would like it if John was better than all of them.
The power of six wasnt that bad.
Also, i agree with some of you, John should ditch Sarah go for six, Sam should find his dad and sam should be okay with being single.
One of the things i hated in the power of six was john and sam sorta fighting over for six.
I would love to have her powers.
****FINAL RATING: 3.80 STARS**** CATCHALL These books aren't perfect. They have a lot plot holes, and it kind of ticks me off how powerful the characters are. However, they're so much fun that I can forgive all of that. I mean, they give a good four, five hours of fun, and with the little amount of self-control I have there's no way I can turn that down. As for this third installment, it was fast-paced and just like its predecessors, had a ton a action packed somehow into just a few hundred page
Sometimes I admit that it got excessive but honestly without action, these books really wouldn't be anything special.
This is one of my main complaints about this book, because who wants to read a book that never goes anywhere?I mean, don't get me wrong, as you can tell by my rating that I definitely enjoyed this book.
Since there wasn't much plot development, as aforementioned, I feel like the ending came too soon, before much really had a chance to happen.
These books are action-packed and fun, but as far as plot development goes they've actually been slowly been getting worse.
The third book in this series unravels the answers to the readers' questions about the main character's true feelings and intentions. Reading this was super exciting as members of the Garde slowly unite and find one another to fight the evil monstrosity that is Setrakus Ra.
Lots of action that made it hard to put down.
Good read for a YA book.
The book is written in first person and switches between three different characters.
At times, I found this hard to follow as I had to sometimes read several paragraphs before you knew which character I was reading about.
I assumed based on the title we'd learn more about Nine.
In fact I didn't really learn much more about any of the characters, new or old.
Despite all of that I found the book worth the read and it was exciting right from the start.
cant wait to read this book! :( august 2012 is such a long wait!3/6/13Wow. that was a good read :"> I am still rooting for four to be with sarah but he and six would also be good together. I don't know which pairing would be better :-( I loved it more than I loved the power of six and I can't wait to read the fall of five!Why couldn't there have been a Garde from the Philippines?! lol!
I loved both books =)I don't like Sarah, I'm really sorry but I don't.
I wish I had read the books first I might have like Sarah then, cuz in spite of how much I wish Four and Six will get together I'm pretty sure Four's gunna stick with Sarah.
And I think we're gunna end up finding out that Sarah didn't really betray Four, it was all an accident or a misunderstanding.
I really don't like Sarah, wish I could.Number 10 is so cool!!
Sam'll be fine, I know he will.
There is nothing to like a quest to understand everything, even if there is nothing to know. I am a sucker for books packed with action (and conflict), addicted to them like girls and their book boyfriends. The Lorien Legacies books continue to be more exciting than the last; The Rise of Nine was one helluva book. There’s still three more books to come, but man, I JUST DON’T KNOW WHAT TO EXPECT ANYMORE! Okay, since I read The Fallen Legacies novella I may have a smidge of a sense what would be
There’s still three more books to come, but man, I JUST DON’T KNOW WHAT TO EXPECT ANYMORE!
John doesn’t stop moaning about the loss of Sam and Sarah, and Nine is the one telling him to get his act together.
Both groups come across difficulties forcing them to use their Legacies and through a sequence of events find their paths to one another so that they can defeat Setrakus Ra once and for all – at least fight him.
Besides his constant moaning over Sam and Sarah, John comes to understand a lot.
I’m so mad at myself for not feeling the giddiness I felt after reading the first two books.
I mean, I’m trying soooo hard to feel excited for the fourth book but the conclusion wasn’t really what I hoped for.After reading this book, I finally appreciated Four.
I’m also hoping we finally meet Five in the next book.
Please continue to preoder The Rise of Nine for us to read the origin of Number 8 and many more!-UPDATE- 04/29/12Guess what?
I just read an excerpt of the book like just a while ago.
I've read enough YA books to convince me that they're not meeting Four for a while.
You can't even be sure the Loriens will safely make it to the next installment, although obviously they will.Rise of Nine lacks the tenderness and deft craftsmanship of the original book, I Am Number Four, with the carefully developed relationships between the hero, Four or "John Smith" and his girlfriend Sarah and best friend Sam. You sometimes feel that you're in a world where two superpowered races are thrashing out their bitter feud on earth while the human characters are just gullible pawns.
I can't clearly distinguish between Seven and Ten.My disappointment after such high expectations aside, I still raced through the book and was drawn into the action sequences.
This series is getting better and better with each book I read and I really couldn't be enjoying it more!
It's non stop action the whole way through and I was on the edge of my seat for pretty much the whole book!
I definitely wasn't expecting to love this series as much as I am and it's been such an awesome ride so far!
I had originally planned to take a break after the first three books but seeing as I'm enjoying them so much and after the way this one ended, I'm definitely starting the next in the series immediately!
holy freaking freak.Four (I'm sorry, I can't bring myself to call him John Smith, which happens to be the worst name I have ever heard in my life) needs to ditch Sarah.
I'm sorry, but I just don't like her anymore.
Six is so much better.Nine is a beast.
I love him.Seven annoys me.I love Sam. I hope they find his dad.And I hope all of them reunite somewhere totally epic, like Australia.
I can imagine the ending to be extremely amazing, and I'm gonaa be totally disappointed if it doesn't meet up with my standards, but then again, I have a hyperactive imagination.
When your supposed hero is a complete and utter douchebag with few, if any, redeeming qualities, the audience, frankly, begins to root for the villains.
There are just too many characters now for the writers to keep up with, and the story itself is taking some heavy hits because of it, relying far too heavily on plot convenience and Dues Ex Machina to pave the way.In conclusion, this book is a complete mess.
This book was HARD to read through, because it's full of characters I didn't give half a damn about, doing things that seemed more like they were trying to take take up time rather than actually do something.
Awesome to read about so many of the Garde coming together! I plan to start the fourth book asap! Seriously loving this series!
Here we have those kids who are running for their lives and who are supposed to save their planet but in the middle of battles and hiding they think about how hot the other is…eeeh, no thank you.The Good- It’s an action packed and fast paced read (sometimes even too fast but more about that in “The Bad”)- Super powers: The Lorien’s are aliens but because they look and act so much like humans to me, it feels like they’re just humans with super powers.
I feel like this series just keeps getting better and better with each book!
Everything is explained, and you are reminded of things that happened before to jog your memory so you can catch on quickly.I feel like the ending of the book is going to bother a lot of people haha.
I kind of enjoy cliff-hangers in a series though because they keep me wanting more.I do have a lot of questions and concerns though: - SAM!!!!
There are a few things that i want to happen in the third book:I want nine to go die in a hole somewhere because he seems really mean.I want sam and six to get together.I want Sarah and Mark to join them on their journeyI want to know who five and eight are!I also want seven to go. I dont like her at all.I want Sam's father found and he can sort of be four/John's Cepan.I hope it will be good! i thought that the second book was fantastic! Taa.xxx
My Wants For The Rise of Nine:1) Four/John becomes romantically involved with Six, mans up a little, and ditches Sarah once and for ALL!
2) Sarah is never mentioned AGAIN (I extremely dislike her, I didn't even enjoy or remotely like her and Johns' romance in I Am Number Four!) Although, I WOULD enjoy if John kinda rubbed it in her face that he's happily with Six. BOOYAHHH.
LOVE THAT BOY!4)Some new powers are added to the Garde's Legacies!
In general matters, I'd like some cool Legacies to happen w/ the rest of the Garde.5) This isn't really a "want", but rather a statement.
***I READ ITTTTT :)I'm so pleased with these series, though I still want four and six together...haha.
This book is riveting and I kinda liked how short eight's involvement was.
i mean, i wish they could all go badass and fight sarjlkj ra lol i cant spell his name :P his dedication was short but sweet.
it's gonna be one big family for sure :P sss (save sam soon!)P.S. anyone else want to know what was in the dart??
and why was the title of the second book the power of six if only five people were mentioned...four, six, seven, nine, and ten.
9/18/12: I really like this book. This book has restored my faith in the Lorien Legacies series. Tons of action. I have a feeling that Nine will fall in love with Six or Five (if Five is a girl). I hope it's Five. I really hope this book is better than The Power of Six. John and Sarah FTW! 3/14/2012: The cover is nice!!!!!!
However Four needs to refocus on his mission of saving Lorien and keeping the Garde together.
Nine needs to harnesss his revenge, learn to work with his Garde, and refocus his energy in a more controlled manner.As with the first two books, Six remains my favorite.
I see her as a leader alongside Four in this mission.The last chapters end in an epic battle with Setrakus Ra and at the end, the Garde knows they need to train and strategize together in order to win this war.
These books are great campy fun.
The book doesn't have many rest points as it is almost all non-stop action.The story is told from three perspective characters: John (#4), Six and Marina (#9).
Yes, some of the action gets kind of outlandish but that is what I think is kind of fun about this and the other stories.The author does seem to stretch a little to far toward the end of the book even for his liberal use of plot vehicles.
Lastly, the book is too short.
There is another book or two in the works before the story can be told.
I AM OFFICIALLY IN LOVE WITH no. 8. FANGIRLING ABOUT THE ENTIRE BOOKThings I loved about the book:NUMBER FOURNUMBER EIGHTNUMBER SEVENTHE ACTION !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!Their legacies. They have such AWESOME abilities.Things I hated:(view spoiler)[ Why did their only Cepan have to die ? WHY !?!?!? (hide spoiler)]Number Six (I'm not a fan of her)Number Nine (He's alright but drives me mad at times)The fact that Sam is not in this book directly. I like him.One thing I didn't like was that there wasn't en
8. FANGIRLING ABOUT THE ENTIRE BOOKThings I loved about the book:NUMBER FOURNUMBER EIGHTNUMBER SEVENTHE ACTION !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!Their legacies.
They have such AWESOME abilities.Things I hated:(view spoiler)[ Why did their only Cepan have to die ?
(hide spoiler)]Number Six (I'm not a fan of her)Number Nine (He's alright but drives me mad at times)The fact that Sam is not in this book directly.
I like him.One thing I didn't like was that there wasn't enough development in the plot.
But none the less I liked it.The best thing about this book was that I now like Sarah again.
=)HOPE EVERYONE ELSE ENJOYS IT BECAUSE THIS BOOK IS AMAZING !!!
After every book in the Lorien Legacies series, I open the next.
Seriously, it's like levelling up in a game.
Each "level" is bigger, better, and stronger.
I just can't stop reading, I'm entirely hooked.
In The Rise of Nine, I really saw Six as a character.
The Power of Six showed me John, while The Rise of Nine showed me Six as well as unveiling more about the Garde.
Pittacus Lore is very much a fan of killing characters, but for some reason, I haven't minded, and I'm usually quite forward about my feelings toward character killing.
The Lorien Legacies series is amazing and deserves to be read and loved.
