https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/152038.The_Politics_of_Heroin
While a graduate student, when he began this research, he had an FBI agent assigned to watch him, even going so far as to follow McCoy for hours at a time and investigate the work that he was doing at the library.
I've also seen OSI (Office of Special Investigations) in action tracking the comings and goings of high school students, GIs, and their families.
But McCoy's research into the degree to which the CIA was/is involved in the worldwide drug trade is fairly damning of the agency itself.
His book is an extremely well-researched and well-documented account of the importance of heroin to Southeast Asian politics from the post-war French occupation through their replacement by, first, the C.I.A. and, second, the Armed Forces of the United States of America.Opium has been produced since time immemorial in the Golden Triangle and has had its place in the lifeways of the peoples indigenous to the area.
amazing research. i found it so intetesting
McCoy is a historian but the main part of this book, which was intially published as "The Politics of Heroin in Southeast Asia" was written based on work he did while following the trail of heroin during the war in Vietnam, generally the kind of stuff done by a journalist or ethnographer.
McCoy himself is an accomplished scholar of the area with several important books on the history of the Philippines.
The front and back sections of the book, on the history of the drug trade in the early part of the last century through World War II, run by the Corsican and Sicialian Mafia and the post-Vietnam era, run through Columbia and Mexico, seemed tacked on to update and expand the book for a revised edition.
While the prior book was primarily focused on Southeast Asia, this one points towards Afghanistan, where the opiate trade has retreated since the American retreat from Vietnam.There is no debate on the simple fact that while once most world heroin production occurred in Southeast Asia, now almost all of it occurs in Afghanistan.
Nor is there any question that prior to the United States of America getting involved in trying to drive the Soviets out of the country, Afghanistan produced little more opium than required for domestic consumption.
Nor, finally, is there any question that the Communist governments of, first, Peoples' China, second, Vietnam and other Asian states, effectively wiped out the opium/heroin business in their countries soon upon obtaining power.
I cannot believe the amount of information that this book contained.
While there were a myriad of topics covered, some of the main topics covered by the book include the way that the British used opium and heroin to create an "enslaved" workforce, the complicity of the Americans--specifically the CIA--in the opium trade, American "confusion" of progressive, southeast Asian governments with communism, the complete denial and concealment of American GIs with heroin problems, and the extreme amounts that Americans were willing to cast a blind eye toward in order to "fight communism." I had no clue what we were guilty of doing in this region.
This book--far from being partisan, as I first expected--simply lays out the facts as seen by one with firsthand experience.
These facts are pretty ugly.
Much of the information in the book came from interviews with eyewitnesses.US support of anti-communists in Asia, who often financed their activities through poppy, opium and heroin growing and manufacturing, led to this situation.
Some of the remnants of Chiang Kai-shek's troops fled into the jungles of Burma after their defeat by the Communists; the US pressured Burma into allowing those troops to stay there, and the CIA began supplying them with Company airlines (Civil Air Transport and Sea Supply Corporation, which soon became Air America).The KMT troops in Burma grew opium to finance themselves, while they used US arms and sometimes CIA planes to fly the opium out to Thailand or Taiwan.
In the case of Cold War-era smuggle networks in Southeast Asia and Europe -- the focus of this book -- the motive for complicity on the part of the CIA was different: on the one hand, the narco-thugs in Italy and Marseilles were useful for beating down Communist labor organizers, and giving them de facto drug trafficking concessions constituted a form of payment for services rendered; in the case of Southeast Asia, providing logistical support for transporting the Hmong drug growers' opium to market was a way to provide an income to mercenaries being enlisted in the war against the Communist Vietcong and the Pathet Lao.It's frankly somewhat amazing that McCoy survived writing this book.
This is a meticulously researched*, densely written, fascinating analysis of the covert wars waged by the CIA and its effects--intended or otherwise--on the global drug trade.
The analysis of the 30 years since the first edition seems to confirm the book's original premise, that the CIA's focus on containing Communism (or now, terrorism) at all costs has led to complicity in the global drug trade, often with horrible and far-reaching consequences.*That being said, I found a minor but significant error in the final chapter, which mentions a warlord by name but affiliates him incorrectly, so it's impossible to tell which is actually being referenced, the warlord or the group.
With that said, McCoy does a fantastic job analyzing the global drug trade up to the early '90s; and pointing out instances in which the CIA was complicit in shipping drugs, or aiding in the drug trade in general.
He analyzes the drug trade and CIA complicity beginning in America, moving to Southeast Asia, the Middle East, and finally ending in South and Central America.
This book is very much a product of its time (the Bush-ista Drug War); and I certainly don't agree with all of McCoy's conclusions.
This book is more like an encyclopedia.
It's difficult to read because of its density.
But it does a good job explaining the issue.Relatedly, if anyone wants a good argument why legalizing drugs is a bad idea, just read this book to learn how several SE Asian countries legalized narcotics to reap massive tax revenues.
However, the countries became so "addicted" -how ironic- to the tax income from legalization they couldn't operate without these drugs.Decriminalize.
Don't legalize.
Abuse and addiction are serious scourges on society that requires remediation not incarceration.This after-school message has been brought to you by Lite Brite by Matel.
I can't stress enuf how important this bk is to me. While the early edition that I refer to here focuses primarily on the US & Southeast Asia, particularly in the Vietnam War era, its extremely well-researched information is clearly applicable to explaining the covert machinations of ALL GOVERNMENTS. If you want to understand in detail how heroin is used to both control & destroy domestic populations AND 'foreign' ones AND how its production & sale is a major source of war-mongering funding, READ THIS BK.
An enlightening and detailed look at the heroin trade and its geopolitical influences throughout the world. Very detailed (which can bog the narrative down at times), but obviously well-researched. Quite disheartening in the our (the US) complicity in the heroin trade and its far-reaching effects on the health and lives of people throughout the world.
Occasionally a tad repetitive (reciting events and claims/sources throughout various sections) and suffering from some wonky editing (why analyse the impact of the contra affair AFTER detailing the rise of the rise of the heroin trade in Pakistan/Afghanistan...) McCoy's work is well written, documented, and manages to (despite my gripes) hold its reader for its fairly substantial length.
Phenomenal book about U.S. sponsorship of opium production in Asia during the Vietnam War. Written by a guy who hung out with drug traffickers and producers, Mafia members, in order to write this thing, got death threats, etc...
I learned a lot from this excellent and thoroughly researched book, which shows that covert operations and the drug trade are inextricably linked. The case he takes on is Southeast Asia during the Vietnam war, but the same thing happened in Latin America and in Afghanistan. Terrific book.
Everyone should read this book...maybe their perspective on our government and military would be very different. There are plenty of books just like it, well documented. Just saying!
He was my professor!
Seriously readable and very informative.
a definitive book on Western intelligence agencies' complicity in the heroin trade
An extraordinary, gripping book.
The essence is about how American forces used heroin as a currency for keeping political power in South-East Asia during the Vietnam War. In doing so one of the outcomes was that American troops became heroin addicts and brought their addiction back to the United States where it became a scourge among both the working class and the middle class from the 1970s.
Part of the blurb for the book tells it best: "The Politics of Heroin stirred controversy when the C.I.A. tried to block its publication back in 1972, but it has remained in print for nearly 50 years, been translated into nine languages."
Extremely interesting read!! The current opioid issues began 2 centuries ago with the support of U.S. government along the way. A must read!
Rich Grisham It is a very good overview of the history of the Golden Triangle, however, it is not a in depth telling of the CIA's complicity in the heroin trade.
The book is very interesting and informative, but the book is not loaded with clandestine CIA operations that result in direct complicity in the drug trade.
The CIA is directly complicit in arming KMT (Chinese National Army) and Hmong tribes which became the leading forces in the illicit distribution of Burma's Shan provinces opium trade, and help shape the Golden Triangle into the world's largest international opium supplier for the production of Heroin.Well, after reading the last and most interesting chapter - my review needs an update.
the flipside to michael taussig is this visionary thinker who saw through the surface world of the 1970's and pieced together a more complete picture of capitalism's necessary underbellies. eastern/western transparencies/opacities are evident in both the players (the overlords legal/illegal and quasi) and the law.
To-read: One of my fellow activist did a presentation at Hampshire based mostly on this book. Since then I've seen it referenced thousands of times. The style promises to be dry, and the ideological bent is very drug hysteria ridden, but the material is still fascinating, soooo...I need to get a copy.
Someone I love is recovering from heroin addiction one day at a time. Wondering at why the DEA can't stop the drug at its source, this staggering textbook of the 20th century was not what I expecting to uncover in my simple inquiry. It is difficult to read for long stretches. Never has an introduction to a non-fiction so thoroughly blown me away. My life is forever changed.
This is a scary book written over 30 years. It chronicles the relationship between American diplomacy and the international drug trade. A thorough work of scholarship, it has over 100 pages of endnotes, bibliography and index.
What a surprisingly good read (Heh GoodRead!). It's very informative and reveals how ridiculous a "war on drugs" is. He writes clearly and in such a charismatic way that you don't wish to put the book down.
Amazing. If you want to understand the politics and economics of global drug trade and the role of US policy in the trade and learn what to do about it, this amazing piece of research is crucial read!
Absolutely stunning in its assertions, impeccably documented in its research, and irrefutably damning as a result. The CIA is the most lawless organization in a government that has no peer when it comes to disregarding the law.
