https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/121646.Murder_in_the_Mews

That odd, little foreigner with the strange mustache  Hercule Poirot is at it again!In Murder in the Mews, a collection of shorts, Poirot's razor-sharp mind is pitted against such stumpers as a suicide/murder conundrum, a deadly love triangle, and a case of important papers gone missing.
Originally four short stories were published under this title, which was called Dead Man's Mirror here in the States.
My version only included three stories: Murder in the Mews, Triangle at Rhodes, and The Incredible Theft.
All in all, if you're already an Agatha Christie fan, you won't go wrong with Murder in the Mews.
What makes this collection a good read are the two stories. The first Incredible theft is expanded version of Christie's original story- The Submarine plans. The second story Dead Man's mirror is expanded version of her earlier story- The second Gong. The other two stories in the collection include Murder in the Mews and Triangle at Rhodes. We also get to know that Poirot loves his Sirop de cassis !!!
Murder on the Mews is one of the Little Engines that Could of Christie-lore, reviewed by as few as 8,000.
Though the theft involves plans for a bomber—a war reference—and a (pretty) American former (?) spy, no one would care much about this theft.Not enough development.
2 stars, but the summer scene at Rhodes could have been developed more.These are pretty early and weaker stories from Christie and yet they are still readable, I kept reading, they are pretty well constructed.
مجموعهای از سه داستان معمایی به سرپرستی پوآرو. داستان اول واقعا خوب بود، داستان دوم متوسط و داستان سوم کلیشهای بود و من دوستش نداشتم.شخصیتپردازیها نسبتا متوسط و خواننده چندان خودش رو درگیر داستان و درون احساس نمیکنه، چه برسه به همذاتپنداری کردن.+ در کل مجموعه داستان جزء کتابهای موردعلاقهم نیست.
مجموعه‌ای از سه داستان معمایی به سرپرستی پوآرو. داستان اول واقعا خوب بود، داستان دوم متوسط و داستان سوم کلیشه‌ای بود و من دوستش نداشتم.شخصیت‌پردازی‌ها نسبتا متوسط و خواننده چندان خودش رو درگیر داستان و درون احساس نمی‌کنه، چه برسه به همذات‌پنداری کردن.+ در کل مجموعه داستان جزء کتاب‌های موردعلاقه‌م نیست.
This was the first Agatha Christie's short histories book I've read and I did not like it very much. It's interesting for passing the time, but I prefer the novels with Hercule Poirot than these short stories. I read in my native language and I consider that this book deserves 3.5 stars.
Patru povestiri polițiste numai bune de citit în aceste zile călduroase!" - Chestia asta întotdeauna complică lucrurile, se lamentă Japp. Unii oameni își țin gura - câteodată din cele mai onorabile motive."." - Cum aș putea să mă exprim! zise el. Să refuz - da, acesta a fost primul meu impuls. Dar, nu știu, omul are, câteodată, un presentiment. Ceva poate să nu miroasă așa de bine...".

Misterul micului diplomat - ✮✮✮✮✮Incredibilul jaf - ✮✮✮Oglinda mortului - ✮✮✮✮Triunghiul etern - ✮✮✮✮
3.75 stars.Agatha Christie yet again lives up to her title of'the Queen Of Crime'.Murder in the Mews is a collection of four mystifying and mind boggling cases taken up by professional sleuth and well-known Hercule Poirot.
What's the catch you ask?The missing plans are not so far.In fact they're so close it's unbelievable.Third story:Dead man's mirror.The egomaniac,staunch and wealthy Sir. Gervase Chevenix-Gore summons famous detective Poirot for ambiguous reasons.Upon Poirot's arrival,host and never-late Gervase is found in his study shot through the head,slouching in an uncomfortable position with a letter scrawled, 'SORRY' on the desk before him.
When you read a long series out of order like I did with Poirot, you miss a book now and then.Murder in the Mews is actually the first of 4 short stories in this book.
I figured out soon enough the twist.The following 3 stories: The Incredible Theft, Dead Man's Mirror and Triangle at Rhodes, were narrated by Hugh Fraser (Mr. Hastings in the Poirot series) and he's simply masterful.
One of the characters in Dead Man's Mirror, mentions the same line by Tennyson which Mrs. Christie revisits in The Mirror Crack'd from Side to Side.At the end, this book was a good read for those of us crazy Agatha Christie fans but I wouldn't recommend it to a newbie.
A interesting selection of short stories that had Agatha Christie class and style showing. 3.75 Stars!
The audiobook I listened to only consisted of the first of the four shortstories (Murder in the Mews) which was really cleverly done!
لا اعلم ما السر وراء الاسماء المعقدة في روايات اغاثا
Kai buvau paauglė, buvo laikotarpis, kai jos knygas skaičiau vieną po kitos ir atrodė, kad vis neužtenka.
Prieš kokius šešerius metus pamenu kuičiausi Didžiojoj knygų mugėj (Urmo bazėje buvo skaitytų knygų komisas ir išparduotuvė, dabar Knygų Fabrikas) ieškodama kažko, ko dar nebuvau skaičiusi.
Vėliau ir vėl buvo etapas, kai nei viena jos knyga nebuvo atversta.
Agatha visada sugebėdavo taip viską sudėlioti, kad išties atsiranda noras dar kartą perversti ir peržvelgti visą knygą.
Ir tikrai neatspėjau nei vieno nusikaltėlio ir nei vienos tikro motyvo, o Puaro paaiškinimai, kaip visada, buvo nepaprastai įdomūs.
Hercule Poirot și inspectorul-șef Japp discută despre noaptea de Guy Fawkes ca o noapte perfectă pentru o crimă datorită artificiilor, astfel încât nimeni nu ar auzi o împușcătură, de exemplu.
A doua zi dimineața, Poirot primește un telefon de la Japp și află că o văduvă tânără s-a sinucis la Mews, numărul 14.
Ajunși acolo, Poirot și Japp bănuiesc că e mai degrabă o crimă: decedata e împușcată în partea stângă a capului și ține pistolul în mâna dreaptă și nu a lăsat nicio scrisoare de adio.*** Nu erau multe în dulap.
Când Japp întinse mâna spre ea, Jane Plenderleith spuse repede: - E a mea.
leer Agatha Christie siempre es un placer
Benim okuduğum versiyonda 2 hikaye vardı. Birinci hikaye yani Ölünün aynası çok güzeldi ona 5 bile verebilirdim ama 2. hikaye yavan geldi beğenmedim hatta tahmin ettim yani olayları.. Seriye devam Poirot'lar bitecek :D
Below is a description of all of them in no order of preference: Murder in the MewsA 27 year old widow Mrs. Barbara Allen has apparently committed suicide at her home by shooting herself.
Will Poirot be able to find the real culprit?Dead man’s mirrorThis story is about a rich oldie Chevenix Gore who commits suicide in his own vast mansion.
Beautiful and flirty Mrs. Valentine Chantry, married for the fifth time, is poisoned to death with a heart poison mixed in a drink.
Perskaičius tiek Agathos Christie knygų kiek aš, rasti neskaitytą ir dar naują – tikras lobis. O knygyne pamačius „Žmogžudystę kotedže“ mano širdis visai apsalo:1) Knyga storesnė nei kitos šios Christie serijos knygos;2) Kaip ir minėjau – nesu jos skaičius, o ir pavadinimas žadėjo mažą aplinką, daug įtariamųjų ir tikėtina, netikėtą atomazgą;3) Vos užmetus akį į anotaciją pamačiau žodį „Puaro“;Su lig tuo momentu ir nusinešiau leidinį prie kasos. O tada grįžus namo ir labiau įsigilinus ką čia nusi
O knygyne pamačius „Žmogžudystę kotedže“ mano širdis visai apsalo:1)	Knyga storesnė nei kitos šios Christie serijos knygos;2)	Kaip ir minėjau – nesu jos skaičius, o ir pavadinimas žadėjo mažą aplinką, daug įtariamųjų ir tikėtina, netikėtą atomazgą;3)	Vos užmetus akį į anotaciją pamačiau žodį „Puaro“;Su lig tuo momentu ir nusinešiau leidinį prie kasos.
Antroji istorija vadinosi „Neįtikėtina vagystė“ ir pasakojo apie karinių brėžinių vagystę įvykusią šeimos rate.
Tikriems Agathos gerbėjams šios knygos nerekomenduočiau, tikiu ir jūsų įspūdžiai bus tokie pat kaip mano.
Tačiau taip pat tikiu ir tuo, jog šie trumpi detektyvai būtų puikus susipažinimo įvadas tiems kurie prie Agathos mįslių dar nėra prisilietę.
I've read a few other Agatha Christie books, and seen movies and BBC productions of dozens of them, and this was the first time I was able to figure out the mystery before the ending In fact, I knew pretty much from the moment they found the body what had happened, which is quite remarkable.
Now it could be that this was just an unusually predictable one, and it’s also possible that I’d seen a BBC version of this with David Suchet and remembered it unconsciously (that usually doesn’t matter – I’m just as stumped on a second viewing as I was the first time).
A good plot.Brilliant red herrings.Then comes short Belgian Hercule poirot to perform the magic.Christie strikes!!!!Engaging and also for me its the convincing climaxes.
Her short stories aren’t my favourite, but these were pretty good. Dead man’s mirror was the best.
I'm a little confused because my edition contained four novellas, not three: Murder in the Mews, Triangle at Rhodes, The Incredible Theft, and Dead Man's Mirror.
The "novella" format always strikes me as a tad awkward, falling somewhere between a story and a novel--I thought that Mews and Theft could have been compressed into short stories, whereas Rhodes and Mirror could have been extended into novels.
Of course, with either Poirot or Miss Marple on hand, no one ever *really* gets away with the perfect crime!
Neither the police nor Poirot himself are satisfied with the idea of suicide and they need to try and find out what really happened especially as the young woman who shared the house with the victim seems to be telling less than the truth.In the second story The Incredible Theft, top secret plans disappear when it seems to be impossible that anyone could have taken them.
The clues are there but the author as ever leads us skilfully in the wrong direction.The final story is a chilling episode set on Rhodes where Poirot has gone on holiday to escape from murder.
These are 4 longer short stories that are all very good.
These are much better than Poirot Investigates (which are shorter and lack the depth needed to really enjoy the unfolding mystery).
You can enjoy a more real Poirot and a better narration since Christie isn't locked into the elementary/parochial mind of a Watson type note taking character.The exception is Triangle At Rhodes.
It kind of dissolves into a poorly wrapped up story, and has plot holes huge enough to drive a car through.And I'm not sure where to fit this, so I'm putting it here at the end: Christie often wrote her male characters as startlingly sexist.
After reading so many books (62) of Agatha Christie, I really understand why she reacts as Mrs Oliver, in such a way so as to show embarrassment about her work.
But enough similarities in them to make you feel that you read this before or to remind you of another book by her.This is my longest review and I dare say, it is more like an 'author review' than a 'book review'.
But, I really wanted to express this now.It doesn't mean I plan to end my Agatha Christie Marathon here.
I intend to read all her books.
Volumul de povestiri '' Triunghiul etern'' de Agatha Christie a apărut la editura RAO în anul 2015 în seria Hercule Poirot, Ediția colecționarului,22.
A fost tradus în limba română de Ionela Chirilă fiind publicat pentru prima dată în 1937.Volumul este o culegere de patru povestiri: Misterul micului diplomat, Incredibilul jaf, Oglinda mortului și Triunghiul etern care au în comun o crimă, prezența lui Hercule Poirot și schema de bază a poveștii, ternul triunghi amoros care este desfăcut brutal prin crimă pentru că, dincolo de toate, dorința de câștig financiar rapid este mai puternică decât orice sentiment.
Volumul oferă o lectură plăcută, alertă, plină de întorsături neașteptate și de reflexii dulci- amărui specifice scriitoarei Agatha Christie.
Po gerų ir rimtų romanų man visada norisi detektyvo. Kaip sakoma "trukt už vadžių, vėl iš pradžių" ir šį kartą vėl grįžau prie Agatos Kristi, su kuria draugystę pradėjau visai neseniai. Man šios autorės detektyvai kaip saulėgrąžos, kurias pradėjus valgyti net nepajunti kaip greitai suvalgai net neturint laiko kada kramtyti. Vos tik prieš kelias dienas pradėjau skaityti ir mėgautis, kai šiandien teko užversti paskutinius knygos puslapius, šelmiškai nusišypsoti bei mintyse sau pasakyti "tai buvo velniškai geras laikas su Erkiuliu Puaro" ;) :)
Enjoyable short mysteries featuring Hercule Poirot. In this collection, I preferred two of the stories over the others (Murder in the Mews and Triangle at Rhodes). The stories range in topic from murders, love triangles, a couple of suicides (of course, nothing is as it ever seems), and a theft. It is a bit weird having a different narrator for each story, as it means the voice of Hercule Poirot changes multiple times. Obviously, not a deal breaker in terms of enjoying the audio book, but it was, as stated, a bit weird.
