https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/179142.All_My_Sons
*Read for class
You couldn't have been more inspirational or given these two kids a better introduction to theatre.I wish you knew what a great gift you bestowed upon them.---------------------I feel like I've had more of my fair share of a certain type of phone call, the one telling you somebody is dead.
Twice over the last few years they've been a great shock, the closest of friends, one cooking, one vacuum cleaning, alive one moment, dead minutes later.But today I've had the All My Sons experience and I can see already how it is worse.
I'm sure I'm not going to have to wait years to find out the ending, unlike the poor parents in the play.

Arthur Miller sure knows how to write a play, and the shocks just kept on coming with this one!
Chris and Ann's relationship was enjoyable to read as well, and you could really feel the turmoil of the later events of the play taking its toll on them as well as the other characters around them.I did not expect any of the twists in this play at all, and they just kept on coming in Acts 2 and 3.
I actually found myself staring wide-eyed at the page, and closed the book over with an audible 'Oh my god.' It's been a while since I read a play like that.
“Chris: I don't know why it is, but every time I reach out for something I want, I have to pull back because other people will suffer.”
"اعلم أنك لست أسوأ من معظم الرجال ولكنني كنت أظن أنك أحسن منهم. لم أنظر إليك قط كأحد الرجال ولكنني كنت أنظر إليك كأبي. انني لا استطيع الآن أن انظر إليك بصفتك هذه، لا استطيع أن انظر إلى نفسي!""كريس .. إن الإنسان لا يمكنه أن يكون ملاكا في هذا العالم"
تصادف أنني قرأت هذه المسرحية و مسرحية ابسن البطة البرية في نفس الأسبوع و اندهشت من التشابه الشديد بين المسرحيتين..
في كلتيهما لدينا الثري الغني الذي يرتكب جريمة و يضحي باحد عماله كمسئول عن تلك الجريمة ليهرب هو من العقاب..
و في كلتيهما يقوم الثري بتحمل مسئوليات اسرة العامل كثمن لتضحيته بالعامل..
و في كلتيهما أيضا تظهر الحقيقة على يد ابناء الثري المثاليين!
فكلاهما يبدو و كانها لا يدرك الحقيقة التي تظهر واضحة جلية من عدة جملة حوارية بسيطة في بداية المسرحية ..
كأن الأبطال أغبياء أو يحاولون التغابي على الأقل حتى تمتد المسرحية لأطول فترة ممكنة!!!
Another book I think I'll like more after studying it...We shall see!
Arthur Miller does not give us an answer (of course) but there are moments in this drama that get us pretty close.Like a lot of Miller “All My Sons” deals with a father and son relationship that can never meet the burden of expectation BOTH father and son have put on it.
A simple structure: first act sets up the characters and relationships, second act lets us in on the dramatic issue of the play, third act shows us how the characters we have come to know deal with the issue revealed in Act 2.I don’t want to give away any plot points.
This is super short but yet it managed to pack a punch. I liked that. I listened to the dramatization of this and it was done incredibly well. Usually this style of audio is not my favorite, but I really liked this one. I liked that the characters were well drawn. For being so short, I felt like I knew all that I needed to know to get to the end with a bang. So 4 stars.
A three act play by Arthur Miller about the impact of a person's immoral and dishonest actions upon his family and society.
Eleştiri yapmak için eleştirilenle aynı işi yapmak gerekmiyor belki (Neyzen Tevfik'e atfedilen "Ben yumurtlamam ama yumurtadan anlarım!" sözünü hatırlayalım) ama bir işin büyüklüğünü yeterince takdir etmek için aynı yolu yürümek lazım.
Eğer ufacık bir piyes yazmaya dahi çalıştıysanız, Miller'ın her oyunda istisnasız başarabildiği ve o yazdığında insana çok kolaymış gibi gelen dramatik kurguyu, karakter derinliğini, karakterler arasındaki ilişkilerdeki müthiş dengeyi gözleriniz dolmadan müşahede edemezsiniz.
Sizi bilmem ama ben edebiyatta çağın modası süper kahramanlardan, anti kahramanlardan, iç bayacak ölçüde "her gün sokakta karşılaşabileceğimiz insanlar"dan çok sıkıldım.
Onları yanında bir insanın iki boyutlu karakalem çizimi gibi bırakacak gerçek, güçlü, zayıf, korkak ve kahraman; ezcümle yaşayan insanlar var.
Though only spanning three acts, (and I must say I found the first act slightly confusing with the introduction of so many characters, which settled down in the subsequent acts), Miller has engineered a subtle progression of events towards the penultimate scene, reminiscent of the ending to another of his works, Death of a Salesman.
Kate Keller, fully aware of this, chooses not to ascertain her son's (Larry) death because doing so would confirm her husband's culpability.While this dialectic is seemingly negotiated, the past then infiltrates the present, presenting an inevitable confrontation which seeks a immediate solution.
Kellers deal with aftermath of their son, Larry, missing in action and their other son Chris proposing to Larry's ex, Ann. The narration complicates further when George, Ann's brother, comes to visit Kellers and Ann hinting at exposing a secret that the Keller parents are hiding.Miller plants seeds of doubt early in the play, maintaining a grey hue on the setting.
Miller misguides his viewers/readers when the strength shown by a character comes to table; Kate, the matriarch, exhibits fits of anxiety when her missing son is mentioned while Joe, the patriarch has accepted his son's fate.
"מחזה המתרחש באוגוסט 1947 בארה""ב. האירועים המתוארים בו מתרחשים בין בוקר יום א עד קצת אחרי השעה 2 בלילה של היום למחרת. בלילה אחד משתנים לבלי הכר ומתמוטטים לעניי הקורא כמו מגדל קלפים. במשך 3 וחצי שנים, ניהלה משפחת קלר חיים שקטים. אומנם הבן הגדול לארי נעלם במלחמה, אבל האם בטוחה שהוא ישוב והבן והאב לא רוצים לערער את שלוותה הנפשית. אבל סימנים לסערה הרוחשת מתחת לפני השטח נראים כבר בתחילת המחזה עם הגילוי על כריתתו של העץ שניטע לזכרו של הבן הבכור לארי. ביום ראשון הגורלי, גם אן, ארוסתו של לארי מגיעה לפת
בלילה אחד משתנים לבלי הכר ומתמוטטים לעניי הקורא כמו מגדל קלפים.
אבל סימנים לסערה הרוחשת מתחת לפני השטח נראים כבר בתחילת המחזה עם הגילוי על כריתתו של העץ שניטע לזכרו של הבן הבכור לארי.
ביום ראשון הגורלי, גם אן, ארוסתו של לארי מגיעה לפתע לבית משפחת קלר במטרה לבשר על רצונה להינשא לאחיו של לארי, כריס.
עם התקדמות המחזה, מתגלה פשע איום של האב ורדיפת הכסף והצביעות של החברה האמריקאית נחשפים במלוא עוצמתם.
הוא עוסק בשאלות של ערבות הדדית, אחריות חברתית , הגלוי והנסתר ביחסי משפחות, קפיטליזם ""חזירי"" וכמעט כל רעה חולה שעולה בדעתכם ונקשרת לחברה האמריקאית.
הוא מקצין את העימות ע""י ההנגדה והעימות בין האב ג´ו קלר, לבנו כריס.
This is another book that I had to study for my English Language course, for Drama classes.I hated the way the idea was presented ...
So, when loosing your son you realize you've killed him and other youth who are the sons of other men as well and then you show regret and think "they're all my sons"!!!
I had a big problem with the naive style of delivering the message behind this play or whatsoever, it was so direct and there were no twists at all to drag your attention or curiousity for reading.
I had the chance and the pleasure of reading this play when I was a university student, I read it basing on the recommendation of my "American culture" teacher Ammar... The plot was brilliant, the dialogues were revealing. Does the play represent the American society? Yye, Nope. It is kind of Nes. Yes and No. It is a dual, between personal Versus National interests. I am grateful to Arthur Miller for this play which taught me a lot about Drama, English language and hints on American way of thinking.
I had heard a bad synopsis of this and was skeptical about how the whole "older brother committed suicide because his father was selling cracked heads" could have played out, but it does in fact work (in large part because there was only one batch of cracked heads). The Kellers are great "popular" people (reminds me of Galinda in Wicked); charming and convincing and successful. Joe's not very moral position (and questionable justification) works in the course of the play and the unfolding was great to read.
The central plot is that a son goes missing in the war and the other son falls in love with the soldier’s fiancé. But it is super intense and very powerful denunciation of greed, corporatism, and militarism. Basically an essay on our responsibility for each other in this world. It was extremely dramatic, as in, very sensational.
The family became enemies and the father, Joe Keller dies or commits suicide.
"He was my son.
But I think to him they were all my sons" Who am I to rate such a classic?
I remeber the first time I knew this play was six years ago when I was at prep school I still remember my English teacher who was teaching us that time she was such a great lady, I remember I really liked that play even though I didn't understand it completely back then I guess I always thought of a good book when it has some kind of a twist in the end that makes me stop for a second and sort out my thoughts one last time ..
This book has many underlying issues that still resonate in the 21st century. A play that has only one scene, at the backyard, but still is the microcosm of the thorny issues of capitalism, war and dirty business. All in all, this book is about latent fraudulence that left buried, could be kept mum by verbal manipulations and by decimated paper trails. But no one can ever carry the guilt of such responsibilities that eventually will be a rude espionage to the ones involved.
Holy smokes does this play pack a punch! I did not see all of the twists and turns coming. I found myself having to reread a couple of passages over just to make sure I read what I had read. This is a gut-wrenching tale about how one man’s actions forces others to see him, and how it quietly and secretly takes a toll over his family with time. Arthur Miller seldom disappoints in capturing the emotional dynamics of family life.
Un capolavoro. Nulla da aggiungere.Solo che, mentirei spudoratamente se non vi dicessi che sono stati i miei twenty one pilots a portami a questo libro. Anzi, a questo capolavoro.«Potete essere migliori! Una volta per tutte dovete rendervi conto che c'è un mondo di gente intorno a noi, di fronte alla quale voi siete responsabili, e se non vi rendete conto di questo, vostro figlio è morto inutilmente.»..
I enjoyed this play far better than The Man Who Had All the Luck. I liked the drama in this better and the characters as well. Trying not to give away too much detail, but I didn't see the ending coming at all. I thought this did a great job with family life in America at that time.
i don't know why all the characters acting so fake and cold here , strange , maybe Arthur miller wanted to show that ? i don't know . he discussed so serious themes in just 86 pages , he is great writer .
"money. money-money-money-money. you say it long enough it doesn't mean anything."нельзя забывать о человечности, пока зарабатываешь деньги. нельзя прятаться за оправданиями вроде "я делал это ради тебя". нельзя убежать от своих ошибок, даже если изо всех сил стараешься в них не верить. и да, все говно обязательно когда-нибудь всплывет.все мои сыновья - очень сильная семейная драма о войне в наших головах. ну, и немного о второй мировой.
Δεν το θυμάμαι καλά, αλλά θυμάμαι την εντύπωση που μου είχε κάνει. Είναι από τα βιβλία που θέλω να ξαναδιαβάσω.
School days <3
3.5 starsI was, unexpectedly, a great play! RTC
