https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/463090.Star_of_Danger
this one concerns Larry Montray, Terran, and his teen adventures on the wintry, semi-barbaric world of Darkover.
those adventures come complete with assorted monsters & aliens, bullying street urchins & dastardly kidnapping bandits, psychic powers, a forest fire, an amusingly antagonistic bromance between our hero & an arrogant Darkovan lordling, and much contemplation & conversating regarding the nature of being a man & what constitutes honor in a fight (i prefer the Darkover belief system that loathes guns & bombs as the weak man's choice).
probably a good starting point for kids interested in Darkover.
MZB does the Boys' Adventure Story much better than one would expect.
But though he married one of the Aldarans, he seems to have had very little to do with the leroni, so it's likely from his mother that Larry inherited the laran he has.Kennard at the time is about 15--but though he assumes that Larry is his agemate, he is probably a few years older (Darkovan years are about a month longer than Earth years, and Darkovan days are 28 hours long--which means, by the way, that a tenday is more nearly a third of a month on Darkover).

This is the first Darkover book I read.As the story unfolded I rather quickly guessed the 'hook' in the plot, although I was fooled at the way it unfolded.(I had guessed a space Prince and the Pauper story. I was wrong).I'm cheered by reading other reviews that places this as a ho-hum story; I may read another book or so in the series to see how it turns out.... but it isn't high on my priorities.MZB is an author that I rather enjoyed in the past but the events in her life have overshadowed those memories.
More boys-adventure with a fantasy setting, it's a refreshing change. Kennard Alton and Larry Montray begin forging a bond between Darkover and Terra, but the path to change is not always easy.
Research read. Interesting to discover.
I have an Arrow Books Ltd edition from 1978
Torn between obeying his father and keeping his word to Kennard, (view spoiler)[Larry decides that the right thing for him to do is to stay true to his word, and deliver on his promise to the Altons.When the Legate, Commander Reade gets wind of Larry’s friendship with the powerful Comyn family, he asks him to continue the friendship and deliver any helpful information regarding the Darkovans or even the Altons back to the Terran Empire.
I have never considered the Darkover stories as fantasy but rather well written science fiction with good characterization and a well-constructed and logically bound psionically based technological society.
The novel also lays down the basic facts of the Darkoverian universe and is a quick and riveting introduction to one of the great SF and fantasy series ever written and one of the few that can be enjoyed by readers of both genres.Until the Marion Zimmer Bradley Literary Works Trust decides how to handle royalty issues in regards to her victims, you might not want to buy the book but I strongly recommend you ask your neighborhood librarian to find it for you.
In Star of Danger, Wade Montray returns to Darkover with his teenage son Larry after spending more than a decade on Earth.
Eventually the two find ways to work together, relying on both Kennard's psi training and Darkovan survival skills, and Larry's scientific knowledge, to survive in the wilds.As they near the territories of the Hastur domain, they encounter a lone chieri, who takes them in, offers them hospitality, tells them of the true history of humans on Darkover, and then teleports them to safety, just in time to ward off the brewing diplomatic firestorm.
Larry's father explains that his late wife - Karry's mother - had in fact been a Darkovan woman, kin to the Alderan clan, who had followed him to Earth, and that Larry's laran comes from her.
Eventually Larry did get to go out, made friends with Kennard Alton, but the actions that made him friends also got him banned by his father from leaving the Terran section.
Weeks later the Altons make a request to the Terrans for Larry to come visit.
This is such an opportunity for the Terrans that it overcomes the father's objections and Larry is off to live with Kennard and his family.
On a trip visiting some of the Alton's outlying lands there's a forest fire, bandits, capture, escape, struggle against the other dangers of Darkover and several more situations.The Darkovans don't want their world spoiled by Terrans, who want to exploit the natural resources of the planet.
When I began reading the Darkover books, I was hoping to immerse myself in a fascinating universe.
There's something slightly generic about the characters, the way they speak and think -- I can't quite make myself suspend disbelief.If you've read my other reviews, you know that I suspect that Bradley's writing improves over the course of the many Darkover tales.
If I was hoping for something as impressive as The Firebrand or as memorable as The Catch Trap, I can't say that Star of Danger even comes close to her best work.So -- am I recommending this book or not?
You do not need to have read the previously written Darkover books.
Based on other books in the series, it takes place after the Forbidden Tower moved to Mariposa Lake, on the acession of Valdir to the title of Lord Alton.
Valdir was about 14 (Darkovan years are longer than Terran ones, so conversion is uncertain) at the time of The Forbidden Tower, and Valdir's father lived for some years afterward, with Damon Ridenow as both Valdir's and old Dom Esteban's Regent.
And there was at least one Terran in the Forbidden Tower, for a while, who had free run of the household.The journey in this story is largely in unexplored territory.

I'm a fan of Marion Zimmer Bradley, but my affection for her rests not on the Avalon books, which I didn't care for, but her Darkover series.
This is an early book in terms of Marion Zimmer Bradley's career, in my opinion before she had come into her own and honed her craft.
This is definitely not the book where I'd start with the series (I'd recommend either The Shattered Chain or Heritage of Hastur.) However, it is an entertaining read and as a fan of the Darkover books, I'm happy having it among my books.
This is the "oldest," in terms of order written, of the Darkover series I've read so far, so I meet a number of characters I have met in other books when they are younger.Typical of the Early darkover stuff, you have a Terran, Larry, who comes to Darkover and feels strangely at home.
Although I love the Darkover series, Bradley's "trick" of having every Terran who is red headed turn out to be "reallY" Darkoveran is getting a bit transparent, although I wasn't surprised because Larry is really "Lerrys" in later Darkover books and also appears as a fairly significant character in the Renunciate Trilogy.
2013 Grade A-.Book D8.
The first "half" is grade A SciFi mixing of cultures.
The result is a deep friendship bond of two people and the bonding of two cultures.==================================Notes on Star of Danger.
Larry, Terran /Darkovan mix, comes to Darkover after being raised on Earth by his father Wade.
He meets Kennard and they have an "adventure." The result is forgiving of the first true "mixed" friendship and the discovery by both sides that they all come from Earth ancestors.---- charactersLarry (Lerrys) Montray (15)Kennard Alton (16) son of ValdirWade Montray (30-35)The next book would be Winds of Darkover.
The book was pretty good.
There was only one female in the whole book and she had a very minor role.
The book gave a too much away.
Then at the end you find out in a big revelation that the Darkovan humans are really earthlings from back in the day.
You do find out some other cool stuff at the end that does change your perspective a little though.
You weren’t into the main rising action of the book until it was half-over.
There are non-humans to imagine.
Like most Darkover novels up to this point in the author's career, this one features a hero with identity issues and is unaware of certain important events in his own history.As with all early Darkover novels, the main them is the clash between a modern, evolving culture (the Terrans) and a traditional culture that shuns change (the Darkovans).
The story also contrasts a society based on collective security (the Terrans) with one based on individual justice (the Darkovans).The writing is solid.
Zimmer Bradley is not great with large-scale action scenes; there tends to be some confusion about where and when things are happening in space and time.
Ms Bradley was one of the masers of science fantasy novels from that time period.
Well written with rich details about two very different worlds coming together.
This story shows that no matter the world you come from you can find a friend if you are willing to look beyond what is familiar.
While this is a world filled with alien creatures that the boys have to deal with it is really a story about the boys.
This story is good enough that I have read it many times over the past twenty years.
I recommend this book for the YA market.
In my late teens I became somewhat obsessed with the Darkover books, So reading this was a return a favorite series.
As I said, I went through stage of reading lots of Darkover books but have always wondered why Bradley framed Darkover as a science-fiction at all.
Despite the red sun it's not an alien planet, it's a traditional fairytale world.
I'm into small novels right now and I have Darkover Landfall here to read as well, but this will probably be my last return to Darkover.
[These notes were made in 1984:].
Chronologically, this novel comes late in Darkover's history, after the establishment of the Terran space colony, and as such is partly about cultural clashes and compromises.
But since about the last half of the novel involves the wanderings through the Darkovan wilderness of a Terran (Larry Montray) and a Darkovan (Kennard), both young men, it is also primarily a bildungsroman, and is about male bonding.
I enjoyed it very much indeed, and was interested to note how Bradley avoids letting us identify completely with either one of her cultures: rather, the Terran technical culture is a warning of what could realistically happen, and the Darkovan primitivism, tho' it retains many necessary virtues, can also gain from the Terran influence.
This was a decent book that mostly kept me interested.
Though, nothing that I couldn't put down to read later.
For the most part the ending answered most of the questions, but it did feel slightly rushed and a bit too convenient.
I didn't realize this was part of a larger series until I came here just now.
The story was not compelling enough to make me want and read the rest of the series.
But I don't regret reading it either, unlike the book before this!If this is your cup of tea, and you like the premise, then you'll probably like the book and the series.
I read this in one of the new MZB Darkover omnibus editions; can't remember what it's called, but it has this one, The Bloody Sun, and Winds of Darkover. This one's definitely not as developed as some of her later books, and it's very much a Boys' Own Adventure, starring Terran Larry Montray and Darkovan Kennard Alton, but I enjoyed it quite thoroughly anyhow.This was actually my first read of this one, because some of the Darkover books used to be pretty hard to find before DAW did the omnibus editions.
Ok, now I really understand why M. Bradley states repeatedly that these are all separate books in a shared reality. Some of the characters carry over yes. Valdir is the Alton lord who became a lord in Forbidden tower. However, he's "never met a terran who's come to Darkover terms". And his uncle IS terran, at least in Forbidden. There are other niggly things. I didn't notice any of this when I read them at the age of 14 or so... Still, if you ignore the fact that it fits/doesn't fit in the series, the story is well told.
This is one of the earliest Darkover novels first published in 1965. It has not aged quite as well as some of the others, but it is still a solid, if old-fashioned read. It is pretty much an adventure story full of mysterious creatures and obstacles to overcome with two engaging teenage heroes finding their way into the world. There are hardly any female characters around, as these early Darkover books were absolutely male-centric. In the Darkover canon this is one of the slighter books that paved the way for the meatier novels of the 1970s and 1980s.
This is a competent juvenile adventure novel in the tradition of Heinlein and Burroughs, as well as a fairly vital chapter in the history of Bradley's Darkover. Here she explores how the Terrans adn Darkovans first realized that they were both from Earth originally, and poses the problem, explored more thoroughly and more competently throughout the following two decades, of how those cultures could be reconciled. Far from the best Darkover book, but a good read.
Mon tout 1er Marion Zimmer Bradley et le début d'une longue histoire d'amour entre Ténébreuse et moi. Un monde étrange vaste de plusieurs siècles, plusieurs cycles de plus ou moins bons en qualité. Une collection chère à mon cœur qui date un peu maintenant mais aura toujours une place spéciale dans ma bibliothèque.
One of the earlier books in the Darkover series (earlier in the sense that it was written in the 60s but appears later in the chronology), this is one of the stronger stories. A shorter book (phew - some of the longer Darkovan books are tiresome), this is a quick, fun adventure story. Again, these are good male characters, and I quite like the '60s feel' of the writing.
