https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7140096-nightmare-alley
“How helpless they all looked in the ugliness of sleep. A third of life spent unconscious and corpselike. And some, the great majority, stumbled through their waking hours scarcely more awake, helpless in the face of destiny. They stumbled down a dark alley toward their deaths. They sent exploring feelers into the light and met fire and writhed back again into the darkness of their blind groping.” Stan Carlisle is an ambitious man looking for a way to make the big score. He is working for a ten
Why do you ever have to want women, want power, make money, make love, keep up a front, sell the act, suck around some booking agent, get gypped on the check—?”All people want some or all of those things, but most people aren’t in the hurry that Stan is to achieve those things.
When a cop is about to arrest Molly for indecent exposure, Stan steps in and uses the insights about people that he has been learning from Zeena, the fortune teller, to convince the cop that Stan knows his life story.
While the first few chapters fit this description fairly well - with a somewhat fragmented narrative accentuating the fun-house mirror effect (which by the way has an ill-fit with the remainder of the book), and the melodrama thick and lurid until the end - what I ultimately found more interesting were the occult themes running throughout, as related by an author obviously versed in their real-life twisted intricacies, where elusive uncanny fact flip-flops with outright scam, where sincere spiritual longing confronts capitalistic snake oil salesmen.
Though Gresham presents these occult themes as a vehicle for the main character’s unscrupulous despicableness, as he uses every trick in the spiritual huckster’s book to extort money from needy souls, a brief reading of his life will tell you that he was tormented by an attraction/repulsion to the world of the occult.
Some things I love: carny tales, equally comic and tragic spiral into substance abuse tales, cynical (some would argue "realistic") love stories, multi-character studies where the people actually have convincing voices that are distinct from one another and present very different perspectives on the same story because that's life, occasional fits of flowery "why fucking bother" prose, critiques of pseudoscience (it's fleas, dude), critiques of religion-as-corporation (ravenous, swarming fleas), critiques of mysticism (it's, like, still fleeeas, maaan), manipulative asshole antiheroes, antagonists who are more manipulative and even bigger assholes than the manipulative asshole antiheroes, dark comedy, dissections of the inevitable intricacies of predatory types, and this book because it has all of that in one place.
But as his path seems easier, he never quite gets away from his childhood and the alley way of bad dreams.I absolutely loved that this book is broken into chapters that are titled by the Tarot cards in a deck.
Some of that pop psychology was a little bit clunky for today's day and age, but it was not a big distraction.Whether you see Stan's fortune in the Tarot's magician card, the hanged man, or the fool, this dark story is as tricky as the palm reader sneaking peeks into your pocketbook for photos and ticket stubs.
I found it interesting that this is fairly long and rather involved as compared to the typical genre outing, and yet there's not a word wasted, everything counts, nothing is frivolous.
There were two kitchen chairs for visitors, a radio, an electric fan for hot nights and an electric heater for cold ones.
There are a lot of ways to put you in the picture, but generally Gresham just nails it to the floor with the least possible song and dance.
If you have the least affection for the categories of pulp, noir, hard-boiled crime or their fellow travelers, I recommend this heartily, as one of the pillars of the genre.
There’s a lady in the audience tonight, I think her first name begins with a C and her last name with a G, and she’s concerned about someone close to her, who could that be, oh I believe it’s her husband.
In this novel we are following Stan Carlisle who starts as a magician then leaves the carny to set up in the spook racket.
"Good advice if you're a politician, a quack religious leader, an ad man, or in this case, an inexperienced carny who learns to be a mind reader.
People will believe anything if they want it bad enough.I was really not expecting to like this book as much as I did, but it's a book from Kirk Smith's shelf that I wanted to read to honor his reading life, after his sudden death a couple of weeks ago.
But the author also had a pretty good eye and ear for some deep psychological insights into human nature that made this novel into something more than cheap pulp fiction.
Thanks, Kirk.
"Stars, Millions of them.
Space, reaching out into nothing.
No end to it.
Brilliant at times.
Elegant and literary, mixed with cheese dialogue from the 1940s and lots of tits.
It features a fun, twisty plot with a satisfying ending that I didn't see coming.
I recommend reading it quickly in big gulps (which should be easy to do).
I was only able to read it in small segments over a long period of time but I still liked it a lot.
Probably not for everyone and best to avoid if you're allergic to cheese and/or tits.4.5 Dark Stars
1. This afternoon, after finishing this book and having a great lunch with Karen I couldn't stop thinking about this song and about how in a roundabout way it reminded me of Nightmare Alley.
3. Discussion question 1: What, if any, are the relations between the act of the drunk faking the geek act and having to become the geek, and the commonly known irony of hipsters and the point where they become the thing they have been ironically posing as.
But the young man has higher aspirations and not many moral qualms.
In the carnival he hooks up with Molly, an attractive young woman who becomes his partner in a vaudeville routine.
Still aiming higher, Stan buys a mail-order divinity degree and sets himself up as a spiritualist.Stan is looking for the one big mark that will make his fortune, but his own life is beginning to unravel.
It's a dark and compelling story of a man who slowly descends into a hell of his own making, and reading the book is like watching a car crash in slow motion.
Anyone intending to read this novel needs to own the edition pictured in this review and published in 2010 by New York Review Books Classics.It has an introduction by Nick Tosches (which should not be read until after finishing the novel) that along with biographical information on William Lindsay Gresham reveals that this edition is the first  complete and uncensored  version of NIGHTMARE ALLEY to have been published since the first edition back in 1946.One other thing: while the film version o
Anyone intending to read this novel needs to own the edition pictured in this review and published in 2010 by New York Review Books Classics.It has an introduction by Nick Tosches (which should not be read until after finishing the novel) that along with biographical information on William Lindsay Gresham reveals that this edition is the first 
version of NIGHTMARE ALLEY to have been published since the first edition back in 1946.One other thing: while the film version of this novel remains one of the greatest noirs ever made, it doesn't begin to approach the darkness or the sliminess found in these pages.Fun stuff.
From ambitious 'mind reader' to geek - the book has an excellent view of the carnival world as well as some show-biz aspects of the social world of Manhattan, etc.
I read this book many years ago, and it stays in my mind as a contemporary (well 40's era) horror story of sorts.
Also it became a great film made in the 40's.
But the book I feel is even better than the film.
American Library put it out in their Noir collection some years ago - I don't know it it is still in print.
Locate and read it!
One of the greatest books ever written. A hopeless carny works his way higher and higher up the psychic ladder conning hobos to tin-star deputies to high society and eventually top-ranking politicians. The higher up the tower of boob Babel he climbs the more insane he becomes. Each chapter is represented by a card of the Tarot. This book has been imitated a hundred times and still has never been equalled. Creepy as fuck and just as brilliant.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UyEkr...Description: Nightmare Alley begins with an extraordinary description of a freak-show geek—alcoholic and abject and the object of the voyeuristic crowd’s gleeful disgust and derision—going about his work at a county fair.
Young Stan Carlisle is working as a carny, and he wonders how a man could fall so low.
There’s no way in hell, he vows, that anything like that will ever happen to him.And since Stan is clever and ambitious and not without a useful streak of ruthlessness, soon enough he’s going places.
Was I surprised to find out that Gresham had dabbled in the decievers' sect 'Scientology'?
Think out things most people are afraid of and hit them right where they live.
They’re all afraid of ill health, of poverty, of boredom, of failure.
They’re afraid…”I can’t begin to say how dark this story is.
Stanton “Stan” Carlisle is a mentalist, who uses his powers on a carny that travels to all corners of America.
This story follows Stan as he develops his powers, all the while looking for the perfect “mark” that will make him his fortune.I felt a deep heaviness while reading the book, as if I wasn’t reading it alone.
This dark classic is absolutely amazing, it's been on my to-read list for ages but I only wish I'd gotten to it earlier than now. Nightmare Alley is as powerful as if it were real.
There’s an aura of fatalism that resides over Stan Carlisle, seemingly propelling him toward either success or doom at any given moment.
With Molly, one of the performers, along Stan soon becomes immersed in the world of mentalist acts, psychic readings and spiritualism, looking to gain dough and sell hopes.With effective atmosphere and exceptional prose, Gresham pushes us into the world of the carny, tarot readings, mentalism, deception, set ups, secret codes, phonies and fakes.
There’s also a fantastic film from 1947 with a very George Clooney-esque Tyrone Power playing Stan Carlisle.
Spiritualism or your fav religio, it's same damn thing : balderdash. But peops (who are marvelously Dumb) need this. Darryl Zanuck, least stupid of classic moguls, agreed to let Tyrone Power - a big star - appear in film version. "Shrewd, absorbing movie," said Kael. Story is all about bogus mind-reading (any relig), blackmail (any relig) and a carny freak show where Geek, our hero, must bite off - live - the heads of chickens (any relig). A grim novel. Hats off to Z for letting it be filmed in 1947. An American horror story.
I struggled through this one. The central figure is an increasingly nasty conman and I didn't even want to endure his company long enough to see him get his just deserts. I usually love carnival stories so the original ideas, trick spoilers and quirky descriptions save this from a lower rating. It seemed about 100 pages too long. Read in Crime Novels: American Noir of the 1930s & 40s collection from the library.
Strongly delivered novel of the charismatic Stan Carlise, from his humble beginnings working as a carnival roustabout, where he fine tunes his "hustling" to his rise as a spiritualist of renown. The novel is atmospheric and moody, very noir. The characters and times well depicted. Loved the language of the novel. This was an unexpected "gem." Well worth the time.
Stan starts out as a lonely dreamer, a magician in the carny with dreams of becoming a mentalist and finally a nationally renowned spirit medium.
He ends up at the place he swore he would never be, which is where a lot of people end up.I didn't give this five stars because I wasn't totally convinced by Stan's downfall.
Good picture of carny life in the first half of the book.
The book seems to have dated well even though it's setting is the first half of the 20th century.
tl;dr: A mixed bagI'm not exactly sure what to make of this book - it's a hard-boiled noir story, but not set in the usual world of PIs and dames, but in the world of the carnival and travelling 'mediums' and spirit-talkers.The problem is that only the beginning and the end are really interesting - the beginning reminding me of the awesome 1932 movie Freaks and also of one of the best X-Files episode (sadly, no guy tattooed in puzzles appears); the end is a great character study of someone loosing his grips on reality.
The only cool parts there are the detailed descriptions and hints how he pulled these scams off, except for, I think, one trick.
If the title is familiar to you, it's because Nightmare Alley was made into a film starring Tyrone Power and Joan Blondell in 1947.
Before long, "The Great" Stanton and Molly light off on their own.But our hero wants to hit the big time fast.
He takes up with a canny psychologist named Lilith who knows how to push his buttons, and Stanton is just about to hit the big time when ...
when ...Like a giant game of Snakes and Ladders, he goes sliding down into his own private Nightmare Alley.
Predictably, the last chapter is headed by THE HANGED MAN card -- not because Stanton is being hanged.
What would you give to know your future?
Let Madame Zeena answer your questions.
Let Stan Carlisle scare up your spooks.
They know something that the humans who choose not to crawl along the seediest of underbellies never seem to catch onto: the secrets you swore you'd keep forever are the same as everybody else's.
And if you know this simple fact, you can exploit any person your heart desires, extort them for any amount of money, and get yourself out of any scrape.
Shuffle through the deck of tarot cards, one per chapter-- but don't expect to learn every secret.
Oh, Stan Carlisle, what a character you were. From carny to mentalist con artist to hobo drunk and carny geek. Stan's character was a good lesson in what goes around comes around. Eventually, someone is going to one up you.
Book 46: Mid-20th Century American Crime ReadathonI was very much looking forward to this 1946 noir work: on the book jacket it is described as a ferocious psychological portrait of a charismatic carnival hustler....an unforgettable atmosphere of duplicity, corruption, and self-destruction.Hook=2 stars: The novel begins with a description of a traveling carnival and of various "freak show" circus acts, one of whom is just an alcoholic, out-of-work, geek.
We do have a few con artists and some fools with money, but that's about it.Place=2: A traveling carnival which could be anywhere but there is a serious lack of atmosphere.Summary=2.2 stars.
Carlisle meets his match in the person of Dr. LilithRitter, a psychiatrist who has risen to the top of her game byholding the secrets of many rich and powerful people in theManhattan.
The daughter of a saloonkeeper, Dr. Ritter turned the abuse she suffered while growing upinto an asset against the kind of people who took advantage of her.Carlisle, on the other hand, never recoverd from his mother leavinghim as a child and that tragedy sets him up for his eventual fall.
NIGHTMARE ALLEY is a depressing read, but a good book to get a lookat the kind of con games that were run against unsuspecting peopleduring the Depression.

Quite a ride! The rise and (predictable) fall of a con artist, carny hustler turned spiritualist of the kind that Houdini exposed in his search for a legit medium. Great ending - understated, not cataclysmic by any means, but very poetic in the context of this book, wraps things up very nicely. Gresham manages to touch on the world of the carny, the con man, Spiritualism, mail-order Reverends, the alcoholic, the corrupt and the self absorbed all in a very realistic manner. I haven't done any research as to what else he's written but I intend to.
Depraved, hubristic, tarot driven; Not for anyone looking for a positive outcome romance. Looking at the dark things lurking in one's basement may not be the right choice.
