https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/574031.White_Orchids
Another winner from the late great Grace Livingston Hill.
This is a wonderful book! It is the first GLH book I ever read and I've read it many times since then.
Love all of her books. This is a very good one and "The Strange Proposal" which is like a continuation of this story.
This was exactly what I was hoping for in picking up one of Grace Livingston Hill's books; it's a Cinderella in which the prince also learns valuable lessons.
There's always a learning curve for both characters in her romances (yes, so far they're almost all romances), and the learning curve is believable (unless you've read more than two of her books, in which case it becomes formulaic).
I wanted comforting and learning, reinforcing my thoughts on the importance of virtuous marriage and love that takes into account the need for both people to be headed in the same direction, goal-wise (and hence, the same direction in their core beliefs).
This is my one of my FAVORITE GLH books. I have a first edition copy and I just love it. Though its like most of her books (poor girl meet/gets rescued by handsome RICH man?, this one seemed to ring more true than most of her's for me. Great read, even all these years later.
Here is a couple that truly do meet by accident!Camilla is on her way to get medicine for her sick and dying mother when she gets into an automobile accident.
A handsome stranger steps up to help her on her way - and becomes deeply entwined in her life.
A beautiful romance told alongside a beautiful story of faith and courage makes this book another enjoyable story from Grace Livingston Hill.
Again we contrast rich and poor and find that when there are things that really matter - what's in a heart, and the faith of the individual - that class distinction means absolutely nothing.

He was pleasant, respectful, and rich. She was pleasant, respectable, and poor. They were both young. This is the story of a young woman who would gladly fall in love, except that the young man has little to no Christian background. And the story of a jealous ex-girlfriend who goes out of her way to spoil things between the two. Told in Grace Livingston Hill's sweet, expansive style, this story gently tells the secrets of four very different lives, with 3/4 happy endings.
This book has a varying and interesting cast of characters. I loved seeing how they developed in the story. Camilla's tenacity to her principles was inspiring, even if I thought some of them were a little unreasonable. There are a few typos, but they don't spoil this heartwarming tale of love and faith. The motif of white orchids is exceptionally well done. Heartily recommended for the Christian romantic!
This is the first Grace Livingston Hill book I ever read, way back in 1992, when I was 14. I fell in love with the sweet, old-fashioned and spiritually strong stories and haven't ever stopped reading them.
Hill, Grace Livingston
This was the 1st GLH book I read back in H.S. -- it was my grandmother's book. I read grandma's 4 books first, then bought my own.
