https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16003444-1897-1933
Βαθιά τραγική ποίηση με φιλοσοφικές προεκτάσεις, σκηνικό θεατρικό, λανθάνουσα ειρωνεία, υποβλητική ατμόσφαιρα, αυτοσαρκασμός, αίσθηση τραγικότητας και αδιεξόδου! Η Καβαφική ποίηση είναι επίκαιρη και διαχρονική - το καταφύγιο του σύγχρονου δοκιμαζόμενου ανθρώπου τόσο από τις εξωτερικές καταστάσεις όσο και από τα εσωτερικά εμπόδια που στήνουν "τείχη" και απομακρύνουν από την Ιθάκη...
He was slain in battle.Christianity was soon able to persecute pagans out of existence as well as our birthrights...with the closing of the School of Athens, where philosophy had been taught for many centuries, and the burning of the Great Library of Alexandria, Philosophy and Learning were to be replaced by warring theologies for the next thousand years or more ...the Dark Ages.I am just beginning a biography of Julian ..."JULIAN" by Gore Vidal.What has this to do with Cavafy ???Several poems in this collection concern Julian.As far as I have read he wears the soiled title of an Apostate.No fault of Cavafy, but of a Church prepared to rule by Power and Force, propaganda and brainwashing and persecution within.....no sign of any Democracy in the Catholic Church, even now; and lately bolstered since 1854 (?) by the concept of Papal Infallibility, which they allow the Christian Masses to misread to increase their Iron Hold.*(there have only ever been TWO infallible statements : that Mary was taken body and soul into heaven on her death, the so-called Assumption,and how ironic; and that Mary was conceived without Original Sin, the Immaculate Conception...reflecting the Church's obsession with sex.
An immortal Greek poet.
Before you, reader, is the best translation of Cavafy's poetry.
While Daniel Mendelsohn's translations are commendable—fantastic by any measure—they lack the language of Cavafy's original Greek poems, which I am blended ancient/attic language with the conventions of Greek epic and modern Alexandrian Greek.
And while I'm rarely a fan of dual-text publications, having the Modern Greek next to the English is very helpful.
While I don't know Modern Greek, the ability to read through the Modern Greek and see how sibilance and rhythm have been preserved in the English translations is satisfying.
I enjoyed Cavafy's poems of Alexandria, of Greek and Hellenistic and medieval Eastern Mediterranean history, of erudite penury. I cannot approve his homosexuality, so transparently and self-professedly destructive to himself and the objects of his affection, but there is powerful imagery and verse here too. I know Classical Greek, which is enough to appreciate some of the modern Greek of the original, printed on facing pages to the English translation. I hope to turn my efforts at calligraphy to a diglot rendering of one or more of his shorter poems.Recommended.
I know Cavafy is known for being one of greatest.
Nonetheless, I have to admit I found it particularly difficult to go through with the book.Maybe I did not find in it what I would expect from a poem book.
Most of the poems read like plain text.
I guess being able to read them in their original language would make a difference.The poems are mostly about ancient Greek history, with some exceptions (when the authors describe the different ages of his own life).I could see that there is beauty behind them, but I am afraid I have not been able to capture it entirely
cavafy: an old man in alexandria who is able in his poems (and in the mind of his avid reader too) to recreate the passion and potency of his youth and to be, actually be, that man again.one of the greats.
My infinite and divine tutor, of my soul and my body.
Πέρα από μερικά ποιήματα, μετρημένα στα δάχτυλά, με προμετωπίδα όλων την Ιθάκη, δεν μπόρεσα να πολυκαταλάβω τα innuendo που χρησιμοποιούσε ούτε το ιστορικά ούτε τα μυθικά. Δεν με πολυενθουσίασε.
Cavafy's poems enrich my days in fragile moments.
Τα Άπαντα του Καβάφη, αναγνωρισμένα και αποκηρυγμένα δεν είναι ένα έργο που αφήνεις πίσω, σε συνοδεύει. Προσωπικά, δεν τρέφω καμιά εκτίμηση στην ποίηση, είναι η μοναδική εξαίρεση ως τώρα.
Poetry to go back to... again and again...
Ψιλοαπογοητεύτηκα μάλλον με τον Καβάφη, ο οποίος μεν είναι άριστος στον λόγο, αλλά η θεματολογία του μου είναι λίγο αδιάφορη, ίσως έχει ξεπεραστεί ή δεν είναι η δική μου. Μερικά ποιήματα είναι πράγματι αριστουργήματα. Συστήνω να μείνουμε σε αυτά που είναι γνωστά και τα ξέρουμε.
Ideea fatalității, ciocnirile și tresăltarile iubirii, dragostea de viață sunt doar cîteva din temele operei lui Kavafis. Împinzită de influențele marilor clasici antici (Homer, Mimnerm, Calimah, Horatius), poezia kavafiană emană dulcele parfum al vremurilor stravechi cînd echilibrul, frumusețea și pasiunile stăpîneau viețile oamenilor. Aproape ca un rapsod, Kavafis cîntă o epocă lipsită de prejudecățile și convențiile zilelor moderne. Aceste caracteristici fac ca el să nu aparțină veacului său.
Ideea fatalității, ciocnirile și tresăltarile iubirii, dragostea de viață sunt doar cîteva din temele operei lui Kavafis. Împinzită de influențele marilor clasici antici (Homer, Mimnerm, Calimah, Horatius), poezia kavafiană emană dulcele parfum al vremurilor stravechi cînd echilibrul, frumusețea și pasiunile stăpîneau viețile oamenilor. Aproape ca un rapsod, Kavafis cîntă o epocă lipsită de prejudecățile și convențiile zilelor moderne. Aceste caracteristici fac ca el să nu aparțină veacului său.
