https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/237320.So_B_It
It is a hearting warming novel about a young girl named Heidi who wants to know more about her life, where she came from, and who she really is.
Heidi sets off to an adventure to Liberty, New York where she will hopefully find herself, and her mama, some answers.
Unfortunately she gets some very dreadful news.
I learned that you shouldn't give up on something you really want to know because once you get the answer everything seems to make sense, and if my review left you with some questions about the book, then I strongly suggest you read the book!
Her experience is limited to two small apartments for almost her entire life until shortly before going on her quest.
This book wants you to believe that there's a kind of happy ever after here - that things may be different, and knowledge has been gained which changes everything, but mostly it's the same day to day.
This is the kind of book that falls apart if one actually thinks about the situation depicted.
I can admit that the story presented was touching, and I could identify with Heidi wanting to know about her past and being determined to find out about it...
I loved this book! It was beautifully written and the story drew me right in. Great pieces of wisdom were woven throughout and the book has a very satisfying ending, though not the one I expected. Everyone should read this one, and it would make a great read aloud.
Heidi is obsessed with discovering the mystery of her past.
Heidi’s mother, who calls herself “Sobeit,” and whose entire vocabulary is made up of 23 words, doesn’t have any answers.
Heidi’s only clue to her mother’s (and her own) past is one mysterious word her mother often repeats: “soof.” When Heidi finds an old roll of film in the back of a closet, she gets a big clue that takes her—alone—on a cross-country journey to find who or what is “soof.” This book is about identity, asking questions, and living both with and without the answers.
If you've ever read a book that haunted you long after the last page ended, then you understand the difficulty in writing a review that expresses the sheer beauty of an incredible tale.Attempting will be feeble, but here goes:There is security for 12 year old Heidi.
Bernadette, a loving neighbor, provides help and guidance in taking care of her severely mentally challenged mother.
Limited in the ability to express words and thoughts, Heidi's mother repeats one word over and over.Suffering from agoraphobia, Bernadette cannot leave the apartment and thus Heidi's world is a small, safe cocoon of love.
She lives with her mother who has a mental disability and knows exactly 23 words.
Together with their neighbor Bernadette, they live in Reno and get by through Heidi's luck with winning at video games and Bernie's disability check.
One of the words that Heidi's mother knows is "soof" and there lies the driving factor to Heidi's travels to find her identity and what the word 'soof' means.
The story centers around Heidi's unraveling of the mystery surrounding her mother and her travels to New York to discover the truth.
It is about coming of age, identity, family and mental disabilities.
It is a great read for middle grade students.
Bernadette says, "Its as if they fell right out of the sky." Heidi doesn't know where she was born or what her mom's real name is.
Mama always says the word soof, and nobody knows why she does it or what it is.
Heidi calls the place that the photographs were taken at and finds out it is a home for the mentally disabled.
One day she gets a phone call from Bernadette and she says that she needs to get home, NOW!
Heidi says no, she will be home tomorrow, she is in the middle of finding out the truth.
This book was about a girl named Heidi and her Mama who is disabled.
Bernedette says "It was as if they had fallen from the sky." Heidi really wants to know who she is.
She also doenst know any other family members besides Mama and Bernedette.
When she gets to Liberty she goes straight to the place where Mama stayed in the pictures.
The next day she goes back to Liberty and gets a phone call from Bernedette.
Heidi finds out everything she needs to know.
Her dad is a disabled man like Mama.
Heidi knows everything, but wishes Mama was still here.
Her mentally-disabled mother knows only a total of 23 words, and she and Heidi are both cared for by a loving neighbour, Bernadette, who has such severe agorophobia that just to step into the passage of their apartment building makes her collapse.
Heidi is sure it holds the key to her past and sets off alone to discover the mysteries.The section where she's on the road, meeting strangers aboard the bus takes up such a huge chunk of the book, I felt as if we were traveling with the brakes on.
Its a children's book that won an award It's a really short read about a 12 year old girl who's mother is very mentally disabled, and they both live next door to a woman who is agoraphobic who more or less takes care of them.
The only thing Heidi knows about her mother is that she calls herself So B It, she knows only 23 words and she says the word soof.
There were situations in this book that really rubbed me the wrong way regarding Heidi's well being that I won't give away here but her final outcome annoyed me to no end.
It's a good story.
It doesn't happen often, but my rating for this book is purely on an emotional level. In spite of the many plot holes and the ginormous leaps over reality, I was completely pulled into this story. It is a middle grade book with a 12 year old girl named Heidi as the MC. She is living a unique life that consists of a mentally handicapped mother, a neighbor with severe limitations herself and a secret that needs to be discovered. I've never read anything quite like this. I liked the twists, even as improbable they were. Very creative.
It is inspirational, I like the writing style, and I can relate to the main character.
I stood there with that big jar of jelly beans in my arms, thinking just because you can’t feel something doesn’t mean its not there.” I like this quote because she’s lost and all alone in New York, but she finds happiness in a jar of jelly beans.
Another reason for why I really liked the story is the author’s writing style is descriptive and she painted a picture in my mind.
I like this quote because it paints a picture in my mind also and I can feel how she’s feeling.
I wish I could remember how I stumbled across this title.
I'm glad I did.One of the things I love about YA fiction is that the books don't mess around.
They go straight to the important things; how can someone possibly love me?
They draw us in, wrap us up in the world of the protagonist, allow us to suffer the poignancy which is life, and then leave us facing the rest of life, usually feeling a bit bruised or tender.
Without being overly dramatic, this book draws us in to some very prickly questions, and the heartbreaking answers.Recommended for young middle-schoolers.
I would rate this book a 5 out of 5 stars and I would definitely recommend this book to a friend because it’s very well described and a big mystery unravels at the end.
Well, I brought a fare up here once years ago, and I think I remember there’s no good place to turn around up top, so since it ain’t raining no more, you mind walking up?” I think this quote demonstrates a strong meaning because Heidi the girl wanted to go even though the cab driver said the old hotel was closed.
Heidi doesn't remember how she and her mother, So B.
As their neighbor, Bernadette, puts it, they just seemed to "fall out of the sky." Out of them all, Heidi is by far the most normal.
Heidi's mother is severely mentally disabled, and Bernadette is agoraphobic and hasn't left her house in years.
Bittersweet in the end, Heidi discovers that the most important thing is not always finding the answer.
Excerpt:"When she first explained it to me, I thought she said she had angora phobia.
It said a phobia was a fear and angora was a long-haired animal, usually a goat or a rabbit.
So B. It was an excellent and powerful book that could be compared to What's Eating Gilbert Grape or The Big Way Out. It features a woman with childlike innocence and her daughter's struggle to deal with everything going on around her. It was brilliantly written, with memorable characters and an original plot.
A student checked this book out from the library for me to read because it was one of her favorite books in elementary school. It was absolutely charming and a little bit magical.
This book just makes you want to cry at the end! This is my second time reading it and I still felt like I was going to cry! It is just an amazing book!!!!
The characters are entities unto themselves but create something lovely and wonderful when they are together.Now, here we go.
All that time spent on the stories of the people Heidi met on the bus and the journey?
But, Heidi is a clearly drawn character who learns a lot about herself as she travels by bus across the country.
And yet, I never got the answers I was looking for, as to how it could be that her mother and grandmother could leave absolutely NO CLUES but a few photos as to their identities?
4 or 4.5 out of five stars. This is a well-crafted middle grade coming-of-age story. It's bittersweet, yet beautiful. More thoughts at https://bookfiendsite.wordpress.com/2...
I would recommend this fantastic, fabulous, five-star book to readers of all ages! I enjoyed how the book had a ton of detail, it reminded you of the main conflict frequently, and it had an amazing main character, Heidi. I loved this book, and I think you will, too! My first reason for recommending this fabulous book is because it had a ton of detail, which made me feel like I was in the novel. One of the times that I felt like I was in the story with Heidi was on page 159, when she described a
I loved feeling like I was in the book with Heidi, and it was even better when I felt like there was one main conflict I was always reminded of in the novel.
Another time when I was reminded of the conflict was on page 98, when Heidi decided: “I was going to Liberty to chase down a four letter word-s-o-o-f.” In this passage, it was clear to me that Heidi wanted that goal, and nothing was going to stop her from achieving it.
I started pretty much the moment she finished.This is the story of a 12 year old girl named Heidi living in an apartment in Reno with her mentally disabled mother and a helpful neighbor with agoraphobia.
But Heidi doesn't have to be any kind of "accepting" because her mother doesn't have any recognizable symptoms, she looks normal, she's always sitting in the other room coloring, not actually interacting with Heidi or Bernadette, she never requires any sort of treatment or therapy, she is, for the most part an amiable void until she dies, still pretty and young, of the mysterious headaches.
Ontspannend vakantieboek
So really, just by looking at the book I’m not sure what to expect.During Reading: The story is written in a straightforward prose that moves quickly along the story line and doesn’t get too caught up on description.
Heidi learns a lot about herself on her ride to Liberty, New York, but those lessons come at a high premium: it is only when she finally understands how she came to live in Reno and the details of her birth and family that she can step outside of the protective cocoon that Bernadette has built around her and see the world.Ideas for Future Teaching: The story is compelling and an easy read, so it should be accessible to students.
But one day, Heidi's momma says a word that changes her forever, "Soof." This book is person vs.
A major event that changed the character is when Heidi's momma died.
This changed the main character Heidi because, she loved and cared about her a lot and didn't want her to die.
Also Heidi feels that it's her fault because she wasn't there back home with her momma to say goodbye.First person point of view affects this story greatly because you get to really bond with the main character Heidi, and get to feel how she feels, and get to know what she thinks.
I think that's a key point especially in this book because, like for example when her momma dies.
Her mother was born with a mentally disabled brain, and isn't able to work or care for 12-year old Heidi, and she does not know of her father.
They seemed to enjoy life, but Heidi is curious about a word that her mother says that she does not know.
Readers were able to get to know Heidi and her emotions towards each character, and you could experience every dire feeling she felt whether she was sad or ecstatic.
It  by Sarah Weeks is a charming story that I think many readers will enjoy.
Because I was interested throughout the entire thing, I thought that this book was an easy read.I thought that this book was easy to read for many reasons.
I thought that this book was very interesting because the topic was somewhat connectable.
This book was somewhat relate-able because I think that everyone at some point in their life wants to know who they are and where they belong.
I like this because there are a lot of books that have things happen but no reason for it.I think that this is a book that everyone needs to read because you get a theme out of the book.
*Listened to audio version of this textThis novel is about a girl named Heidi who wants to find out more about her life.
She lives with her mother who is mentally disabled, she only knows 23 words, and has a neighbor named Bernadette whose house is connected to theirs.
12 years later, they are still living together, and Bernadette continues to teach Heidi's mother simple new things such as how to open a can.
This book has many great teaching lessons for students.
Many students can relate to wanting to know more about some aspect of their life.
It are Heidi, the main character, Bernadette, Mama, Thurman, Roy, Ruby, Georgia, and Elliot.
The two main settings are Reno, Nevada and Liberty, New York.
In Reno, Heidi is usually in her apartment or out gambling at a slot machine, and in Liberty she is either at Hilltop or Roy and Ruby's house.
The main plot is a girl, Heidi, with a bum brain Mama who can't fully speak.
My favorite part was when Heidi's past began to unravel, answering questions I had at the beginning.
I truly did not have a least favorite part, but I didn't like how slow the book could get.
