https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18693763-everything-i-never-told-you
“Before that she hadn’t realized how fragile happiness was, how if you were careless, you could knock it over and shatter it.” This book is a fantastic character portrait. I don't read these kinds of stories too often - family dramas with a focus on the everyday - but when I do I'm usually pleasantly surprised. As much as I'm a lover of amazing story arcs with problems and terrifying consequences, there really is something so fascinating about... people.A book that focuses on the dynamics betwe
Celeste Ng has portrayed the intricate details of these people, of their relationships, of their complex web of contradictory emotions.Ng opens with the statement "Lydia is dead".
The central story of the book - Lydia's death - is a platform on which the author explores this family, because it is really about the lives of people.
I don't know how an author manages to make the mundane so vivid and so fascinating.I felt so emotionally pulled into this book that it seems weird to emerge into the real world and find that these characters are not real.
finished this in one sitting! if you need me, i'll be over here bathing in my tears.
ENTER THE GIVEAWAY!!this book is absolutely perfect.it's easily one of the best contemporary family dramas i have ever read, and i have read more than a few.ng's prose is outstanding, and her characters are vibrant, completely three-dimensional, and the way their stories knot up in each other is superb.it opens with the death of sixteen-year-old lydia, the beloved middle child of marilyn and james lee.
Quintessential MFA graduate writing, which is to say lyrical creative prose that captures emotion in the details, following the MFA formula of "show; don't tell," to provide character exposition.
Despite the beautiful writing I didn't believe for a minute that one of these characters was real and I didn't buy any if the relationships.
They all felt like symbols or allegories almost the way characters in fairy take would.
I craved a little more complexity and depth from the relationships in the family and although I couldn't put the book down, found myself feeling a little "meh" when I was finished.
Then, the rest of the book happened.I hated all of the characters.
Oh, and I really hated how half of the book was written in italics.
But, man, I hated her overuse of slanting letters to the right and writing choppy sentence fragments to attempt to make me care more about this stupid book.First, it was The MartianThen, it was The Girl on the TrainAnd now it's this horrible, lifeless book with wooden characters that no one cares about and hundreds of wasted pages on the past of the stupid characters that no one cares about.I'm done with popular, overhyped books like this.
There are too many great books out there, and I refuse to waste my time on something like this again.Hey, was I clear on how much I hated this book?Just wanted to be sure.
This book's scope is beyond what I was first expecting and branches off in so many directions as we follow the families' lives after and before the death of Lydia.
This book is truly about "Everything I never Told You" the book focuses on each member of the family, their hopes, fears, dreams ect and how at so many important parts of their lives they never voiced any of it, and showed the consequences of doing so.
This book was truly a treat and I will be doing a full review soon on my channel
Gorgeously written. Really subtle storytelling but the tension built in a really excruciating, smart way that kept me holding my breath. I also love how Ng approached writing the challenges of identity and difference for both women and people of color, as well as how much the burden of expectations can truly weigh.
It is through flashbacks that we learn about James’ and Marilyn’s pasts and how it has affected their children when the story returns to the present day.While I felt for the parents and what they had gone through, my heart was broken for these children, as they transferred their hopes and dreams on their daughter and hurt all of them.
I gave it four stars also because while I didn’t like the parents very much, I loved the children, and in the end felt that there might be some hope for Nath and Hannah in spite of the tragedy that befalls this family.
James and Marilyn Lee are a Chinese-American couple with three children, Nath, Lydia and Hannah.
James and Marilyn, poured the hopes and dreams they had for themselves into their the first born daughter (and middle child), Lydia.
Sad that James and Marilyn didn't have any idea who their children were, sad that Lydia couldn't be who she wanted to be, sad that Hannah had no one to show her affection, pay attention to her and let her know what it was like to be loved.
I wanted to shout at Marilyn and James.
The reader is allowed to learn this before the family does, which creates a beautiful inside glimpse of a family crumbling.Everything I Never Told You is about just that: the subtle nuances and emotions that go unsaid, the familial tension behind closed doors that goes unnoticed, unexplored, and the way that our lineage and upbringing shape our lives, for better or for worse.
4.5 StarsThis book offers one of the coolest family/character explorations I've ever read.
I love books that dive into characters' morally grey area, and this was especially interesting because each character's perspective on their family member's death was so distinct.
I felt for every character on the page and there was never a dull moment.
The audiobook for this was great and the writing style was definitely memorable.
If you're looking to get into adult fiction and aren't sure where to start, this one definitely makes you think but is still short enough and interesting enough to keep you flying through the pages.
4.5 Stars ”Lydia is dead. But they don’t know this yet. 1977, May 3, six thirty in the morning, no one knows anything but this innocuous fact: Lydia is late for breakfast.”  This is how the book begins. They hit like a punch, knocking the wind out of you, these first sentences. And yet, while this part of the story runs throughout these pages, each person viewing the circumstances that led to her death in their own, inimitable way, this is the story of the years before, of all that led up to thi
And yet, while this part of the story runs throughout these pages, each person viewing the circumstances that led to her death in their own, inimitable way, this is the story of the years before, of all that led up to this day for each of the family members, and those whose lives they touch.
Lydia, the middle child, the one her family had pinned their hopes and dreams on, not that she’d wanted that; not that she hadn’t bent to the point of breaking over the pressure of that expectation.
In some ways, reading this felt almost like reading the personal diaries of this family, these people.
And upon having completed the second chapter of Everything I Never Told You, where we get a better sense of the ongoing character dynamics, I knew I was in for a treat.My personal highlights from the book include:✓ The smaller the details, the more swept up I am in the story.“But Nath’s seen Lydia at school, how in the cafeteria she sits silent while the others chatter; how, when they’ve finished copying her homework, she quietly slides her notebook back into her bookbag.
1977, May 3, six thirty in the morning, no one knows anything but this innocuous fact: Lydia is late for breakfast.” From the bare bones of that terrible fact, the story blooms, tendril after tendril, the past entwining the present and reaching into the future.James Lee is an American-born Chinese professor of history, teaching at Middlewood College in Ohio.
Marilyn became pregnant and dropped out of school to raise a family with James – Nath, Lydia and Hannah.
Lydia is the golden child – carrying the heavy burden of her parents’ failed dreams, past humiliations, and lofty expectations.
WHAT A GREAT BOOK.
It was still really great!
This is the type of book I feel would be more enjoyable on the page than on audio, but with that being said the audiobook was well done.This is the story of a dysfunctional family dealing with the death of 16-year-old Lydia, the middle child.
You get to see snapshots of each family member's life, in the past and in the present, and it was written so magnificently that each transition was perfectly seamless (although in the audiobook I sometimes got confused because I couldn't see the page breaks lol).
Then there is Marilyn whose character is both over the top and sad, a woman unfulfilled, terrified of ending up like her mother, while she is trapped in the same role of being a housewife and mom, she becomes so obsessed in her determination to save Lydia from this fate, she creates a toxic family atmosphere that is unhealthy for everyone and it ultimately backfires on her in a most awful, gut wrenching way.
However, I am not convinced in any way that being in an interracial family was at the root of Lydia's issues, but it was easier to place the blame on race than to take a long hard look at themselves.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ “They will dissect this last evening for years to come. What had they missed that they should have seen? What small gesture, forgotten, might have changed everything? They will pick it down to the bones, wondering how this had all gone so wrong, and they will never be sure.”  Hrrrrrrrrm. Good news is, I don’t think it’s necessarily only me this time. The problem for me with Everything I Never Told You was with the characters. I don’t
Good news is, I don’t think it’s necessarily only me this time.
Now, if you’re thinking this is going to be some kind of awesome mystery/thriller – you’ve got the wrong book.
Seriously – that racial stereotype has been done to death and needs to just burn in a fiery pit in hell.I understand many loved this book, so definitely don’t remove it from your TBR based on my review.
As for anyone who is even thinking about asking me how I couldn’t loooooove this one or who might be drafting a comment that informs me I read this wrong?
What started out as a 'forbidden' love story between Marilyn and James, ended with a death due to unrealistic expectations pushed too far on a child.
I was frustrated with James and Marilyn throughout the story for A) pushing their separate (and very opposite) ideals on their daughter, Lydia and B) for basically ignoring their other two children, Nath and Hannah.
Marilyn and James feel their hopes and encouragement are what is "best" for Lydia, meanwhile, these pressures create endless confusion, stress and suffocation for her.
While the story itself was very frustrating and sad, the writing was really good and kept me fully engaged from the first to last page.
Five people who make up a family and live together and all of that stuff, but which as the story begins to slowly move forward and fold back repeatedly onto itself the reader discovers don't really know one another at all.
Maybe this is true, not having read SLOB, but this book does feel like a reality, where in life sometimes the most important things are never said to one another, where you never get to really know the people who you take for granted even though they are closest to you.
Everything I never told you is the debut novel by Celeste Ng and tells a powerful and yet quiet stroy about the Lee family who are coming to terms with losing their teenage daughter.
The story is beautifully told and the prose has an eloquence to it that you only come across once in awhile in novels.This is not only the story of a Chinese-American family losing a teenage daughter, it is a story of racism, of a family trying to fit into a community and a community that fails to see a family in crises and above all a family who fail to communicate with each other.
Marilyn, James, Lydia, Nath, and Hannah all had believable, fleshed-out backstories that drew my interest and broke my heart.
We see Marilyn and James project their unfulfilled desires onto their children; we view Lydia, Nath, and Hannah struggle to bear the weight of their parents' standards; we watch as Lydia's death tears them all asunder.
I would recommend it to fans of adult fiction focused on familial relationships, as well as to fans of Jodi Picoult and Amy Tan. Everything I Never Told You made me whisper-scream "omg-omg-omg" without stop, and I hope it does the same to you, too.
Maybe others will disagree, but it is a fairly depressing story.It was still a good book, even if my mood grew darker as the story went along.
I think that the overall story was interesting and the relationships in the story are written well.
If this had been written in modern day, a lot of the fear and desperation caused by this would not have been there.I cannot say that I would recommend this book because it is so dark and depressing and I wonder what people might think (i.e.
But, if you are interested in stories with serious family drama, this is the book for you.
Then she meets James, A Chinese professor and finds out she is having his child, her plans change and they marry.A story about expectations, about fitting in or not, being different from your classmates, a look at racial and gender prejudice, and a sensitive look at a family in crisis.
As James and Marilyn foster their hopes and dreams on their daughter Lydia, they are blind to what is really happening in their family.
This is the decision this family must make, and the author did a fantastic job of showing us that what led them here and how they can move forward.
Absolutely exquisite writing. Lyrical! Luminous! Gorgeous! Elegant! A book full of deep feeling!!! Page after page after page!!!!!We are reminded that it can take decades to comprehend the past, let alone make amends with it. Unsentimental ....yet a brave-bold-heart-baring story. "Everything I Never Told You" is one of the best books I've read this year!!!!!!
This was a really frustrating, sad, and uncomfortable read for me and wish that I could have felt more of a connection with these characters. I almost didn't finish listening to this and thought I would probably have enjoyed it much more if I read the print copy of this book instead. The characters mostly came across as angry, disrespectful, and rude which made it really hard for me to empathize with these characters and the story.
My heart may have broken in half while reading this. Incredibly sad, powerful, and beautifully written. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fHJeT...
This book is too much for me to deal with right now.
Right book, wrong timing.
Some people might think the writing is a little hammy or overly done, but my biggest issue is my lack of attachment to the characters in the face of such serious issues.
It's definitely a dark book, which proved to be more than I can handle emotionally at the moment, so about halfway through I started skimming to the end.
I wasn't surprised by the ending, so I obviously got the gist of the last half of it just fine.
You win some, you lose some.

Ng's short story "Girls at Play" won a Pushcart Prize in 2012.تاریخ نخستین خوانش داستان: روز بیست و نهم ماه ژانویه سال 2015 میلادیعنوان: تمام آنچه که هرگز به تو نگفتم؛ نویسنده: سلست ان.جی؛ مترجم: مرضیه خسروی؛ تهران، کتاب کوله پشتی، 1394، در 286 ص؛ شابک: 9786007642665؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان امریکایی - سده 21 مداستان عشق، و آرزوهایی ست، که هرگزی، بر زبان نمیآیند، و تنها پس از درگذشت است، که بازماندگان، آن عشقها، و آرزوها را، در میان یادگاریها و خاطرات عزیزان خویش، مییابند.
«تمام آنچه که هرگز به تو نگفتم» بیانگر عدم درک خواسته ها، و آرزوهایی ست، که موجب میشود اعضای خانواده از هم دورتر شوند.
wow...I am totally drained.Celeste Ng takes you completely out of your comfortable surroundings and SLAMS you into the minds and souls of every person in this book who are going through a seemingly irremediable tragedy.
Most of all, it's the love that is felt so deeply but never openly expressed that shatters their world and will not allow you to abandon them nor this book--no matter how difficult it is to read.I truly loved this family.
It was a journey I was privileged to be part of."Everything I Never Told You" is going to the top of my "favorites shelf."
