https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7104.1919

And there, not easy to comment on this reading...What I found most notable it is these inter-chapters formed Newsreels (fragments of each, articles of newspapers and old popular songs, decontextualized and apparently assembled in no particular order by author) which form historical background, social and economic novel, completely chaotic, as the historical period in question, appointed passages of Camera Eye (life and thoughts of an unknown soldier, written in "stream of consciousness", apparently inspired by the experience of Dos Passos, emotions and impressions bursts forming a whole absurd and yet so speaking) and biographies of distorted at shape or perspective, celebrities (Wilson -Meester Veelson-, Roosevelt & Morgan) , activists and victims of war.These cross-sections are interspersed between longer narrative passages, slices of life of some characters in the US and in Europe on an almost clinical tone and distant in the manner of a journalistic report, highlighting the impression of disaster inevitable attending each protagonist, helpless in the hands of the Great War.
2nd Reading.
Easy reading format, historical context, and I do like history, about the interesting early part of the century in of course, the USA.
Each chapter is titled with a character's name and each evolves, through their own eyes, and when paths cross, through others.
Supposedly the books can be read on their own, but I think you would always wonder what you missed.
Yet another item is the Camera Eye, which shows some activity that is going on with a person, but to me is out of context so doesn't add much to the story.
I'm not really interested in "reviewing" a classic novel but two things stand out for me: the closing chapter on the selection and internment of the Unknown Soldier, which sums up much of the cold anger of the entire book; and how relevant so much of the book remains to today, nearly 100 years later. Glad I kept this on my list of "assigned college reading I skipped or skimmed but want to finish before I die."
Beyond that, there are occasional lyrics & other passages in French (Dos Passos' first language) & German that go untranslated, a curious use of adjectives and irregular punctuation, some of which may offer a hint of E.E. Cummings, perhaps not surprising since they were close friends while students at Harvard, often traveled together after graduation and remained lifelong friends.John Dos Passos began life as Jack Madison, his mother having been the mistress of a rich & very well-connected lawyer & financier of Madeiran-Portuguese descent but when his father's wife died, as did his mother's husband, he took refuge as a part of his father's family, while never feeling very close to & often fighting against his father's lifestyle and identifying with the underclass.
I would have eagerly given this book four stars if the individual stories that comprise the framework weren't so damn repetitive. Passos' voice is unique, seductive, hilarious, stark and powerful. What interested me most was the motif of sexuality in the text. It rules and guides all of the main characters yet (brilliantly?) somehow manages to seem subtle. I can't help but wonder if Foer gleaned some of his literary style and Cubist text formation from Passos.
More American lives. WW1 is a strangely bloodless interlude in the rise of corporations and organized labor.
Collages of headlines and song lyrics blast from Newsreels, joining the poetic, intimacy of Camera Eyes, and the straightforward tales of characters that provide diverse perspectives on the war: the weary second-guessing of Joe Williams, the soulless cynicism of Dick Savage, the naive embrace of adventure of Anne Elizabeth Trent, and the soulful uncertainty of Eveline Hutchens.So much of contemporary history of the war deals with the military leaders, but Dos Passos presents the war in the context of a nation struggling with labor unrest.
It's as if the war lures its American characters to Paris to make love, to adventure through southern France and Italy, and to die--but not necessarily to fight.This book was a worthy five-star successor to The 42nd Parallel, but I didn't like it quite as much.
Dos Passos, John. 1919. (1932). ****. This is the second volume in the author’s “U.S.A.” trilogy. Although supposedly written as stand-alone novels, I don’t see how a reader can just pick one of the volumes up and start off. They must be read together and in order. The author uses the same techniques to bring history alive: the Newsreels and the short bios of importnt people interspersed throughout the narrative. He also follows the lives of the same characters in this novel as he started in “Th
Although supposedly written as stand-alone novels, I don’t see how a reader can just pick one of the volumes up and start off.
The author uses the same techniques to bring history alive: the Newsreels and the short bios of importnt people interspersed throughout the narrative.
He also follows the lives of the same characters in this novel as he started in “The 42nd Parallel.” Sometimes, their lives intersect, but not always.
The characters are really only the author’s excuse to narrate the history of our country during the period.
These novels are an excellent way to learn the history of America during the times of the narrative.
Dos Passos's use of the formal experimentation techniques he developed in the first book are more assured and tighter, his biographies center on subjects that he doesn't wholly approve of (such as Woodrow Wilson and JP Morgan), and there is even an actual climax to this novel even as you can see that Dos Passos is setting up the subject of the final book in the trilogy (_The Big Money_), with a focus on labor strife, the rush for oil-rich territory on the part of US oil interests versus the British and the Dutch, and the continued importance of advertising to spin the news and ensure consumption.
Dos Passos had a keen understanding of how advertising and other forms of propaganda influenced popular consciousness about the war and patriotism, and that's one of the most important messages of this work.
Volume 1 was spectacular, Volume 2 oughta be even better. Mailer thought it so, and who knows?.....I'm 80 pages from the finish line and it's about as good as the 42nd parallel was....which was tip-top, in my opinion.I can't wait to read "The Big Money" and complete the trilogy cycle!
Perhaps I would have liked this book better if I hadn’t had to write an essay every 70 pages, but I still think I would have remained completely bored regardless.
I get that that was kind of the point, but maybe I didn’t need to put myself through a reading experience completely devoid of any sense of enjoyment to understand that.
Also, and maybe it’s just me, but I really don’t feel like I understand the America of 1919 more from reading about the various experiences random twenty-somethings have with prostitutes.
Following the engagement of some of the characters "back home" in the social movements that rocked that period is definitly enlighting, if not moving at times.I enjoyed 1919 as much as I liked its predecessor "The 42nd Parallel".
Whilst I greeted and consumed with interest the various newsreels with their often a-propos pieces of historical tidbits, the insipid, or at times, bizarre shooting by the Camera Eye got me annoyed more than once.
I am more keen to read on novels set in the same era such as Ragtime, Manhattan Transfer, and Berlin AlexanderPlatz before picking up the last Trilogy piece; "The big Money".
The story and characters have no depth or personality.
[and then] They changed cars in .....") I understand it's supposed to be a snapshot into the lives of different people during this time in America, but honestly others do it so much better - Wolfe, Marquez, Fitzgerald, Hemingway, Steinbeck.
It's just a hodge podge of headlines and article clippings in different sizes and formatting.
perhaps it would have had more of an impact if it were actual news clippings in a cut & paste style to have a tangible effect of seeing & feeling them the way they were read in that time.
I am surprised Dos Passos isn't better well-known.
There are several concurrent short stories of people in the period, during WW1.
Dos Passos gets you into each story so deeply that you root for the main character, forgetting that in the previous story you may have been rooting for this character's rival in the exact same situation.
The book also is sprinkled with strema-of-conscious memeories of Passos himself in teat period as well as chapters which just give series of news clippings from that period.
This book is like read an extraordinary piece of painted art.His intellectual life is interesting, growing from an extreme leftest position to extreme right from the 1920's through the 1960's.
Did I enjoy the work?
I have to give the author credit for the work being honest, so much of the thoughts and beliefs comes through in his writing, a sign of the times.
Make a few slight changes and we have a novel to define the 60's.
None of the characters have any charisma, it's a dance of the most negative bunch of literary creations I've ever read.
Plenty of drinking, fornicating, dose y-doe...change venue and partners and repeat...over and over again.
The real historical events are between the sheets.
This is a work of literary fiction based on historical events, read it if you must...and the beat goes on.
And though it can stand on its own as singular novel, the references to events and characters in the 42nd Parallel add dimension and subtext--without digressing into overly complex, divergent narratives.
If you haven't yet read any part of the trilogy, consider reading the last chapter of 1919 "Unknown Soldier." (It won't spoil any of the novel's plot points.) Powerful, accessible, and fluid, this selection may be one of the most important pieces of writing in twentieth-century American literature.
For that reason, I'm surprised this selection hasn't been anthologized in more textbooks.
Anyone thinking of writing the Great American Novel can forget about it; it's already been written.
The format of the book is extraordinary, especially for when it was written.
The whole is like listening to the sounds of a city, with many voices that together make a distinctive sound.As for his prose, Dos Passos is one of those writers who are so good they make it seem ridiculous even to try writing.
His voice is utterly American, biting and wry.
He sketches characters effortlessly and vividly and never gets in the way of his own narrative.This is, put simply, among the best books I've read.
dos passos does amazing things in this trilogy - it's mostly multiple intersecting narratives written in a unique way, where events unfold matter-of-factly, it's a prose without author subjectivity.
there are creative word collages scattered throughout using newspaper headlines and popular song lyrics from the times, giving you a sense of the milieu.
also, leftist polemics that read like prose poems scattered throughout the book raging against the power structure.
also, prose poem-ish biographies of major figures (such as FDR or Henry Ford) - often very critical of figures.
Some of my favorite books, though I haven't read fiction in a long time and I haven't read him in 2002 or so.
The USA trilogy is one of the top five "books" I've ever read... and you should read all three in succession... the trilogy interweaves non-fiction and fiction the way Doctorow did in Ragtime and alternates in styles throughout... I LOVED the 2-3 page biographies of famous people at the turn of the 20th century...
This is a difficult read at first, with a very experimental form. Once you become accustomed to it, however, the book's story completely sucks you in. Beautifully drawn characters, all seemingly disconnected, combine to portray a world torn apart by war. So heartbreakingly gorgeous, I had to put it down because I didn't want to finish reading it. Ever.
I really wish I had read Dos Passos earlier in my reading career, but he tends to get lost in the Hemingway-Faulkner-Fitzgerald shuffle. Better late than never, for sure. 1919, the second book in the USA Trilogy, is powerful, though slightly tedious, at times. Any effort expended in finishing it is well worth it. The payoff is big.
This is a masterpiece of Americana. Dos Passos shows the ugly underbelly of America during World War I. The war against labor, the war against the huns was a violent debacle that showed America at its worst--all in the name of nationalism and "capitalism." It is shameful to see the horrors of what was done to make America what it is today.
I love the flow writing style of John Dos Passos. It puts me into the flow as well. It also has an oceanic feeling to it. An ocean of experiences. I hope I'll not start drinking after reading this novel :) I never realized alcoholism was so wide spread.
The "U.S.A. Triology" is one of my favorite books, ever. (I used to have a copy of all 3 of the books in one volume, it's been lost over the years). I love the use of language. I also love the pop-cultural references of the times and how they're integrated into the text. Highly recommended.
"U.S.A. is the world's greatest rivervalley fringed with mountains and hills. U.S.A. is a set of bigmouthed officials with too many bankaccounts. U.S.A. is a lot of men buried in their uniforms in Arlington Cemetery."
There's nothing I can say about 1919 that I didn't already say about the other volumes in the USA trilogy.It is the Great American Novel. Dos Passos says more here about who we are as Americans than any other writer ever has.
The second installment of the USA Trilogy is just as enthralling as the first. Dos Passos' massive cast of characters provides a fantastic walk through radical-leaning concerns in America.
I have to admit, my eyes sort of glazed over a bit on the second volume. Sooooo many indistinct characters. But at least there's a fatal plane crash!
