https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/320861.Howard_Hughes
His cousin told me about a time that Howard had his car stolen.
Hughes was not a brilliant businessman, but he had a talent for finding people and putting them to work.
Hughes did a similar thing at ToolCo, where engineers invented everything from pocket calculators to laser beams.Hughes disintegrating personal life reflected his descent into madness.
At the same time, though, very few people in his life ever told Howard Hughes "No," and the lack of boundaries, along with perhaps some genetic tendencies to mental instability, ultimately led to his downfall.
A man who dated beautiful women, who was a Hollywood mogul, who was a major player in the airline industry, someone who became a player in Las Vegas gambling, and so on.
His Howard Hughes Institute for medical research was an example.Later on, his mental problems became overwhelming, as he lived with little contact with humans, letting his nails grow very long, unable to make business decisions, and so on.He did have successes.
One of his companies was a successful defense contractor.A fascinating portrayal of an iconic figure, who never lived up to his reputation.
The book is exceptionally well researched - coming from a journalistic background it'd be a surprise if this wasn't the case, I suppose - but to the point where it can become a little bogged down in detail.
Charting his decline from rich weirdo to rich OCD addict inmate, the book is its most verbose about the point where Hughes had lost control of his empire.
I assume this is because a lot of the business proceedings at that point were on public record.
I thought I knew a lot about Hughes given my childhood background as an aviation nerd, but there's so much more in here.
I don't usually read biographies or autobiographies unless I am a fan of the person or if it is highly recommended. This was neither to me, I only started reading it because I saw it in the library's returns pile and I was in a reading slump with no idea what I wanted to read. Despite that, I'm glad I picked it up, because it was one of the most interesting biographies I've read in a while.
The guy was so fucked up! But you take the good and leave the bad. In that sense, his eccentricity led him do things a sane person couldn't have done. He was a genius but not a pragmatic one.You don't need to read the whole book because in the end it becomes quite painful to go through the routine logs and know the multitude of characters.

Howard Hughes sort of represents the American dream (nightmare).
Sort of a dreamer who didn't have a practical bone in his body - yet had his Dad's money to do things.
He wanted to create, yet eventually destroyed everything he put his hands on.
The great thing about this book is that they go into the money deals that were made and one wants to shake his shoulders and say to Hughes 'don't do it!"One of the great things about this book is that they reprint a lot of the Hughes memos to his employees.
I became interested in Howard Hughes after seeing 'The Aviator' (edited version)! He was definitely a womanizer and manipulator but you can't deny his courage and determination in both the field of movie production and aviation. The 'Spruce Goose' is on display at an air museum in McMinnville, Oregon which was very close to where we used to live so it had a lot more meaning for me when I got to see the plane after reading about Howard Hughes.
Good thing I'm reading this 2 weeks until Christmas. Nothing says Merry Christmas like a 700 pg book on aviation and germaphobic warfare. I'm not complaining though. No one can pull off ocd sexier than Howard Hughes.
An exhaustively researched book about a very strange man I knew nothing about. Not a business genius, rather someone who built an empire from the profits of his dad's company and somehow didn't burn through ALL of it. I recommend checking out the abridged version.
Howard Hughes: His Life and Madness is painstakingly thorough.
Although his life wasn't uneventful, it—being his post aviation years—can be rather dull due to Hughes relentless refusal to learn from his mistakes.
There is one adage in the book which aptly compresses the 627 pages into a single line: "Same baby, different diaper." The diaper—consisting mostly of deceptive, political, and corporate diarrhea—was too much for me to handle.
Although I read every line, I couldn't suppress my frustration regarding its legislative nature.
One that without a doubt many people rightfully love to read.
As another reviewer pointed out, this book is incredibly detailed and painstakingly researched.
The author has taken great care mapping out the entirety of the Hughes empire, including his ties to a who's who of Hollywood, politics, the mob, and beyond.
If you have the patience for it, this is a fascinating read.
The sheer magnitude of HRH's influence, even when he had become a virtual prisoner of his own design, is mind boggling.
True, there is a staggering amount of information to digest but, such is the life of billionaire industrialists.
Whatever his eccentricities, Hughes accomplished more in one life than most could ever dream.
it provides a lot of great details on the extraordinary life of Howard Hughes.
the biggest issue I have with the book is its over-emphasis on the last 10 years of Hughes life.
Hughes lived 70 years in total, but more than half of the book is devoted to the last ten years of Hughes life.
the author goes into incredible detail about Hughes lifestyle and lawsuits after he moved to Las Vegas in 1966, while (to the book's detriment, in my opinion) providing precious few details on Hughes movie making exploits and life style in his 20s, 30s, and 40s.
As for Hughes himself, I feel conflicted.
A man who achieved much and lived life on his own terms and yet, wasn't the "genius" he was made out to be.While Hughes certainly won't go down as one of my favorite biographical subjects, I can't help but feel sad for him seeing as how his last year's played out.
To go from being master and commander of his own world to becoming a frail wisp of a man who was apparently taken advantage of by his associates is a fate no one deserves.
Interesting book on the extraordinary life of Howard Hughes. Billionaire, playboy, filmmaker and an aviator - Howard Hughes dreamt big and attained success across diverse industries. This book is way too long and there are sections which delved way too much into complicated lawsuits involving Trans World Airlines and Hughes declining health conditions. One can draw striking similarities between the lives of Howard Hughes and Elon Musk with their involvement in variety of ventures spanning multiple industries.
This is a looong book (over 650 pages); it took me two library check-outs to finish. It's not just about Howard Hughes, but also some history of drilling and aviation, of Las Vegas, of the Watergate scandal, about movers-and-shakers, lawyers, con artists, crooks, government misdeeds, human parasites and assorted atrocities Hughes suffered at the hands of his staff/aides/employees/caregivers in the later stages of his life. Fascinating, illuminating and finally sad. You just can't make this stuff up, Maynard.
There has to be better books on Howard Hughes, this book was over-done with information about documentation and a plethora of other people only an accountant would find interesting, this book could be for you.
I can see where Elon Musk inspiration come from, this is one of the most amazing biography I had read so far.
What a man, what a life
Too many technical descriptions of Hughes' schemes.Hughes' detailed notes were funny though.
This is the one to read.It's a real doorstep of a tome, but it had me captivated right to the last page.Fascinating.Balanced.Very well researched.
I liked it
It's unfortunate Goodreads doesn't let us give half stars, because although it's not a 3 star book, it deserves more than the 2 I gave it.I'm pretty familiar with Hughes' rise and fall in Hollywood, but I was intrigued enough by this book to pick it up because it tells not just that aspect of his life, but also covers parts of the story I'm less familiar with: how his family came by its wealth, his early life, and his post-Hollywood period.
The background of Hughes' family and his early life are covered quite cogently.
Biopic about Howard Hughes, the American business tycoon, aviator and perhaps the last Classical Capitalist.Book was well-researched and gave a good overview of Hughes life; basically, his parent's early death left him with millions which he spent on funding movies and airplanes, both on a almost grotesque scale; in the meantime also making fame flying around in the world in the 1930s when only very few people had done so.The oil-related business kept on generating huge amounts of cache which he then invested (with very mixed results) and other ventures, mostly related to aerospace.
Book is quite interesting though, and now I know more about the man than I ever need to know!
Let's start with Howard Hughes as an example (1905-1976).A friend had reviewed this book, commenting, "(When) we get into the business stuff and the book bogs down for me.
It's punctuated periodically with much more interesting bits about his deteriorating mental state and some very astute observations about just why Hughes' staff and handlers allowed and encouraged his decline to continue.
I did recommend the book to a friend who worked for years in Nevada state government because it documents Hughes' manipulation of the media and government officials.
It was only after finishing the book that I could really appreciate the value and picture that this book provides.
Not only about Howard Hughes, but about politics, governments, big companies and human society in general.
Even though this book is one of the more difficult books to read because of the copious amount of data that is contained in it, I would highly recommend it to everybody who would like to peer into life (and madness) of Howard Hughes and people around him.
This book will reward you with providing detailed account of many highs and lows of not only his life, but of the society in general.
Comprehensive, though at times overly so - a digression into Howard Hughes' alleged roles in Watergate, for instance, added nothing to the reader's understanding of Hughes.
Rather than a psychological understanding of Hughes, what the author pushes and what I agree with is that while Hughes was indeed a visionary and genius, he was a shitty businessman whose fortune rested more on inherited wealth than any wealth Howard Jr. himself generated.
The authors are Philadelphia newspaper reporters, and the book materially and stylistically reflects this - it is fairly light on the tits and ass, and long on the business dealings.
Written so soon after Hughes's death, certain details are missing (e.g. later developments in the estate battle, and some of the Watergate revelations.)Best/unique things about this book: Most detailed coverage of various legal battles, including TWA, Air West, and the 1947 Senate hearings; probably the best coverage of the Glomar Explorer affair; detailed coverage of the 1975 Mell Stewart enema showdown.See all my Howard Hughes book reviews.
I find Howard Hughes to have been an utterly fascinating person and this book is about as thoroughly researched as a bio can be.
Although I did enjoy it a great deal, I thought it got bogged down in too many details about the many many business dealings that Hughes was involved with, whether directly or those being done in his name.
I wanted to learn more about Hughes the man rather than quite so much about his accomplishments and failures as an entrepeneur.
That aside, if you want to learn about Howard Hughes this book is probably the best resource you'll find.
This is a very long book, over 630 pages, and is single spaced.
It does give quite a detailed history of Howard Hughes, some things I could have gone my whole life without knowing.
Reading this book showed me in detail how the Government is manipulated, from the IRS, FCC, Civil Aeronautics Board, to the White House.
And Hughes was not the first, nor will he be the last.
Since I am a Las Vegas resident, and have lived with the Hughes name in the back drop of so many events and dealings in Las Vegas, this was a very informative and eye-opening read for me.
