https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/796907.Ten_North_Frederick
This is a rather wonderful novel encompassing decades in the life of the central figure, Joe Chapin, a well-to-do Pennsylvania lawyer.
The novel, told in one 390-page chapter and one 18-page one, skips around chronologically, but always fluidly, organically, as if the characters and time periods were taking turns with the story.
It is filled with rich characters, some spectacular writing, and sometimes that writing reaches the level of magnificence.
It is filled with insights into the wealthy of a middling-sized city in the first half of the twentieth century, and some of O'Hara's descriptions of political thought could have been written today.
In retrospect, it may well have been O'Hara's intent to portray Joe Chapin in this light, but I found myself throughout the novel to be much more interested in Joe's wife, Edith, and daughter, Ann, as well as several other characters.Simply put, Joseph Benjamin Chapin was safe, maybe too safe.
Ann, it seems to me, is the one that ends up teaching both of her parents the most about what life can be or should be about.Frankly, after writing this review I am perhaps coming to realize that there might just be more to this novel than I initially thought, and that maybe I need to give it some more thought and another read sometime soon and see if there is more to the story and moral of Joe Chapin's life in John O'Hara's 10 North Frederick.
O'Hara considered part of a novelist's job to be a social historian, so the novel is filled with significant and, perhaps, not-so-significant minutiae of life in Gibbsville, PA (based on O'Hara's hometown, Pottsville) from the 1880s to the 1940s, reading which approaches tedium.
One also gradually realizes the presence of an affecting concern for decency and the value of genuine love and friendship.The heart of the story is the life of Benjamin Chapin, who aspires to be President of the United States, a man born with a silver spoon in his mouth who learns too late that he has sidestepped the real sources of happiness.The book is worth reading because we're all confronted with the same danger, and O'Hara brings the harsh and poignant reality of this situation home with his convincing, hard-edged realism.
This is a quiet novel of a social class, a family and a man on the decline.
As the novel opens in 1945, Joe Chapin is being buried with the pomp that a man of his standing deserves.
This novel deserves its literary recognition.
But this is a very slow novel focused on character development, including the character of the town of Gibbsville, more than on plot.
In the end, the book dragged for me to the point that I lost interest.
That may say more about my mind-set than about the book.
O'Hara doesn't say a character is fat, he tells you the character's weight and height, he doesn't use euphemisms or hyperbole to describe a character's drinking habits, he tells you that a character had two martini's at lunch, three before dinner, and then 3 after dinner....and after a few years they became double martinis.O'Hara's stories come off as history, and this gives the observations, on aging, society, relationships, the weight of a truth.
The title refers to the main character's address, a part of town once fashionable but now becoming defunct.....a full cycle that concluded almost 100 years ago.
Ten North Frederick won the national book award in 1956.
I touched on it in my blog.
http://www.dianastevan.com/2012/writi...
It's a book I've always wanted to read, but it wasn't easy.
John O'Hara wrote it with no chapters, and long paragraphs.
What was fascinating about this story, was how well he depicted the characters in this small town and their political manoeuvrings.
As the American election of 2012 just took place, I found what went on back in the 1930s mirrored what went on today.
Politics is a dirty business, and John O'Hara showed some of its complexity.
A forgotten American classic by a forgotten American author. O'Hara's ending neatly predicts that he and his protagonist will be lost to memory, as will we all.
Yes, we have moved on from certain ideas about propriety but, to a large extent, people today still behave as they do within the pages of this book.
The novel's protagonist - the rich and respected lawyer Joe Chapin - believes that the road to his dream of becoming a US President will not be all that rocky if he remains true to what he knows about people.
I have rarely come across a writer whose short stories have quite the power of O'Hara's.
'TNF' is, in a way, a novel comprised of a large number of inter-linked short stories - episodic snapshots that nevertheless solidify as one solid piece.
Spans several generations of quiet desperation. How does one measure a life?
His story opens shortly after his life ends when the great and the good of Gibbsville are gathered to pay their respects to one of their own at his funeral and O’Hara omits no detail in telling us who these people are, their relationship to the deceased and their relative importance to the life of their town.
I was prompted to revisit the novel in the wake of having completed another long overlooked apparent would-be ‘classic’, ‘Stoner’ dubbed by the Guardian as the ‘must read book of 2013’ and written by a writer much less well known than O’Hara.
A very well written character driven read.
In the first half of the novel nothing much happens, however a number of characters are introduced and very well developed.
We learn about Joe's parents in the first half of the novel and their sad unloving relationship.
Joe marries Edith, a Gibbsville woman form a well to do family.
To the Gibbsville community, Joe is seen as very community minded.
Joe's legal firm with friend and partner McHenry continues to be a successful practice throughout Joe's life.By the end of the novel the reader has gained a very good idea of who Joe Chapin is.
Oh, what a delicious book!
You'll want to keep reading not to find out what happens, but to find out what the characters do next.
Joe has ambitions to be president of the United States, his hoity-toity wife Edith has two sex secrets she's keeping from her husband (and finally confesses one of them late in life), daughter Ann is hustled off to boarding school after a threesome sex incident in a delivery truck, which is only the first of her sexcapades that embarrass her family, and son Joby is a rebellious mess--at least in the eyes of his parents.
I recently finished John O'Hara's Ten North Frederick, an illuminating and entertaining portrait of small-town mid-twentieth-century America.
The protagonist, Joe Chapin, is a man who seems like he has it all: wealth; good looks; a devoted wife; and the respect of Gibbsville, Pennsylvania.
Joe and his wife secretly detest each other.
Gibbsville is starting to think less of Joe as he lapses into alcoholism.
O'Hara weaves all these strands into a gripping story, a classic in the same vein as Revolutionary Road, Mad Men, and other works that highlight the seamy underbelly of a supposedly sedate era.
Modern day Domenick Dunne perhaps? The world and our habits remain the same through the years. We all think the generation following us is worse than ours but history repeats itself. Sex, money, pride, politics, old money, new money, etc. Not what I expected but very good. Love books from this era
I thought this book was great when I read it while in my 20s. Re-reading it now in middle age, I find even more richness.
Chapin had been a distinguished lawyer and member of high society during the 1920's and early 1930's in the small city of Gibbsville, Pennsylvania, not too far from the big cities of New York and Philadelphia.
The book begins with his funeral and then goes back and tells the story of his life.
Joe had ambition for high office, maybe governor or even president.
When his life was over had Joe Chapin realized his ambition?
I thought the book was very good and wanted to keep reading and reading when I sat down with it.

This is a masterpiece by O'Hara, with few wrong notes, and winner of a National Book Award.
It chronicles the lives, loves, ambitions, and frustrations of the Chapin family of Gibbsville, PA (O'Hara's actual hometown of Pottsville).
His deliberate structure in telling the story that spans the first half of the 20th century is fascinating - it starts with a funeral, and in describing that funeral, O'Hara describes an entire city and its populace.
It's as fascinating to watch O'Hara write his story as it is to read it.
Joe Chapin is the main character, but he is hardly the protagonist in a town where his life is virtually determined from birth.O'Hara's talent for characterization is apparent here.
O'Hara also builds a rich and detailed setting in a book that is as much about a town as it is about a man.The main flaw of this novel is that nothing really happens.
Although I suspect that is precisely O'Hara's point, I also suspect that some readers don't care for a description of how Joe Chapin's sock shopping habits affected his social standing.
Amazing book totally unlike anything I've read before. An interesting slice of life with characters that are so well written, you feel like you know them.
Joe Chapin, a pillar of the small Pennsylvania city in which he lived, "never did much," was not well liked, and somehow aspired anyway to be president.
But he is more bland than evil, and his sins are far more of omission than commission.This was an era, like "Mad Men" which takes place only a few years later, where white males rule the roost, at least in terms of position and power outside the family.
The characters seem pretty real and credible, even if it is hard to like very many of them.White surprised me was the seamy underside of this apparently orderly society.
The first NBA book solely about rich, WASPy Americans, it is also the one I was most into and read the fastest.
Also, war stories don't count no matter who the subjects are, mostly because they have to pretty freaking awesome for me to make it past the 5th page.)The book opens with the funeral of Joseph Chapin, and unfolds into a family history of him and his wife Edith.
It'll have to be pretty awesome for me to like it more than Giovanni's Room, by James Baldwin, which was shortlisted in the same year.)
The portrait of a respected man, Joe Chapin, whose private life was quite different from its public face.
Joe Chapin didn't want to be a small fish in the big pond of New York or Philadelphia; now the opportunity to be a big fish, a respected man, whether ultimately a disappointed one or not, in his Pennsylvania town wouldn't even be available to him.
This novel was last on the Top 10 Bestsellers list for 1955.
However, it also won the National Book Award in 1956.
It was a fairly entertaining read about the top layer of society in a small Pennsylvania town.
In fact, there is not a great deal of difference between Ten North Frederick and his 1949 bestseller, Rage to Live, except that this novel included what happens to a fairly decent and cultured man who goes into politics.
To see another viewpoint, check out the review on the National Book Award 60th Anniversary site.
I love John O'Hara, and I can never figure out why so many of his books are out of print.
He must have been a nosy old fella, because he comes up with situations that ring so true that you feel like he must be dishing the dirt on people he knew.
It's also illustrative of the old "Only male writers are award-worthy" issue.
As I read I kept thinking of Peyton Place and The Best of Everything -- two classic "soap operas" by women writers.
Ten North Frederick, despite covering a lot of the same ground in a not-noticeably-more-literary way, won the National Book Award back in its day!
I thought 10NFred was every bit as good as Samara...had a very similar feel to it.
The usual stuff of O'Hara novel speak shows up, Gibbsville, Lantatengo street, county whatever.
I found the story really engaging though - the rise and fall of Joe C.
I like O'Hara when he's in his element and this was right down the middle.
What that one has that neither 10 Frederick or Samara has is the internal dialog, bizarre internal dialog at times.
O'Hara to me belongs in the same category as Richard Yates, though no where near as dreary...and I'm a sucker for dreary so...
Ten North Frederick was the 1956 National Book Award winner.
The diverse characters are given depth and personality.
Born into wealth and taking on all the "proper" societal mores, Joe Chapin leads a rather lackluster life.
There is the desire to live his life more fully and he has opportunities to do so, but he yields to what he believes is appropriate for the person others deem him to be.
In the end, Joe never truly experienced lasting love, passion, or happiness.
It is sad to think of what could have been but never was; a life lived with purpose and few regrets.
Since it came out in 1955, and recounts family history as much as 100 years before, looking at it from more than 50 years later is instructive.
We see members of a wealthy family going through changes in society, often in but not really of their time.
At half way through this (too) long book, I have yet to get to the steamy parts that the cover promises -- there is much more to it than the blurb indicates.
The writing is somewhat awkward, the jumps from one time to another awkward, but the characters become real enough to keep me reading -- even if I don't really care for them.
I loved this novel of fictional Gibbsville, PA and the struggling of Joe Chapin. The wealthy Chapin family are leaders in the town. This is not enough for Joseph, who decides to enter politics. I had not read any O'Hara before, and it would not be everyone's cup of tea, but I loved his style and the era of which he writes.
Some might say nothing happens in this book. So so so much happens. It's suspenseful at times. Great prose, too.
