https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1270615.Buffy_the_Vampire_Slayer
First, the good -- it's a fun and fast-paced read, the art is excellent overall, and it's of course great to see these characters again.
But the big problem is Whedon's usually brilliant balance between plot and character-development seems off.
The story with the most emotional resonance is the fifth one, which features none of the main characters.Also, the thing that made the Buffy series great was the friction between the demands of real-life and the demands of super-hero duty.
Here, the characters simply ARE super-heroes, and there's only a bit of real-life stuff happening on the side to relate to.
Reading about Buffy season 8, written or supervised by Whedon himself is kinda dream for my inner nerd.
As alive as Buffy Anne Summers, profesional slayer, is.
Everything ended like this:And now it starts with a complete blast, outstanding humor and a fabulous setting.
Too fabulous for a tv show budget I guess, and that’s one of the reasons we have the comics instead.
And of course the same old evil (some things never change)Also, another super pro to read it, is that in this first volumen they clarify some shit said about Buffy in Angel Season 5, so happy nerdy camper here.
Part 1 of my shameless attempt to get my Reading Tracker back on track.This totally, totally counts as a book.
WrensReads Review:I thought this was hilarious.For example, here is Dawn as a giant.Ummm, a few friends are back and they don't like Buffy and team up with some evil that we know nothing about besides that they are evil.The last issue was super sad and I will never read that one again.It's Buffy guys, just read it.
Josh Whedon, as usual, will break your heart and mend it with the comical sarcasm that we all know and love.
The humor that was in the show is still in the comics.
It's the Scooby Gang times a thousand because we have so many more slayers now.WrensReads | Goodreads | Twitter | Instagram
In every generation there is a chosen one. She alone will stand against the vampires the demons and the forces of darkness. She is the slayer. *cue epic music*Team Spike?  Or team Angel?  Whatever. Team Buffy.
Klopf, klopf, gesunder Menschenverstand will rein, aber die Tür ist abgeschlossen.  Ich liebe Buffy, ich habe alle Folgen mehr als einmal gesehen (und trotzdem habe ich das Gefühl, dass ich nichteinmal mehr die Hälfte von dem weiß, was in den sieben Staffeln so passiert ist). Aber dieser Comic hat mich leider mehr verwirrt als unterhalten. :(
A re-read.
Still as fun as before.
My wife is watching buffy for the first time (I finally got her to watch it) and I felt like actually trying to catch up on the comic world of buffy since it's like 12 fucking seasons long now.
Xander is now like Nick fury too, but we all knew that would happen.
Lots more magic, lots of grand fights, huge ass dawn.
It's all big and epic and a lot of fun.
This volume is mostly written by Whedon so it feels very much like the TV show on paper.
Overall it's a lot of fun for buffy fans.
I never really read past this but excited to try.
I initially scoffed at the thought of a GN continuation of the television series.
I'll admit that I wasn't particularly enthused by graphic novels in general, plus part of me thought this was merely a way to keep the franchise making money.
Having so many random girls come into power so suddenly, it was inevitable that Buffy and the Scoobies take the helm in finding and training them; seeing that in action was thrilling.
I may even have to branch out and get Angel’s graphic novels, too.
I am hoping for Dawn to grow up, hopefully before (view spoiler)[she hooks up with Xander, spoilers are everywhere (hide spoiler)]-Willow is gone at the beginning but then comes back to kick ass and fall into a trap.
That is it.-Buffy needs to get laid (the picture of her, Angel and Spike in a big love sandwich will be forever stuck in my head as a background and appreciated) she has had a tough year surrounded by women who are just coming into their powers and who must be trained, her sister is being a big baby, Willow is who knows where, and she misses her home, not to mention her mother and her "old" life.
Used to be a big fan of it (YES...I'm a guy and I watched Buffy...she's a hot badass who kills vampires!
There was a Buffy the Vampire Slayer comic book series before this but after about four or five years they canceled it.
Two things I did not like was one, where is Faith and two, there are only a handful of vampires in the book and we don't see them until the end.
I was actually thinking, over the last couple years, that if the television series Buffy the Vampire Slayer were around today it would be a lot darker, probably more violent with more gore.
I am a massive fan of the television show and couldn't wait to delve into the world of Buffy and the Scoobies again!- So this is the comic series that continues on where the final season of Buffy the Vampire Slayer leaves off.
I think my only issue is that I need to read more to fully immerse myself back into the world.
Some of the things that I am confused about do get explained as the series continues so that is what I am going to do!
I finally got my hands on some Buffy comics, which totally exposes my nerddom, but I can't hold it in.This collection of the first four comics of the "Season 8" series are shocking and interesting, going places the television show never could while remaining true to the characters and their histories. What's most surprising are the voices here, consistent with each actors' portrayals, and the new mysteries created by the time gap between the episode "Chosen" and the first panel of the comic.I can't wait to read the rest!
i loved the tv show, still cant stop watching it.so i was nervous going into the comic.but i loved it, problem is now ive read it i have to get my hands on the next one.
i loved the tv show, still can´t stop watching it.so i was nervous going into the comic.but i loved it, problem is now i´ve read it i have to get my hands on the next one.
It misses the point - the Buffy series was fantasy, sure, but it was also about the psychological development of, and the tensions within, its Scooby Gang.
The point was that Buffy was not such a big canvas in time and space when you got down to it.
perhaps Whedon should leave big fantasy to the top graphic design 'auteurs' like Alan Moore and Mike Mignola who can create characters and situations that are limitless from the start.The novel is also ridiculously expensive for what it is.
Instead it feels like taking a swig of Diet Coke when you expected real Coke, and if I'm going to drink diet then Diet Pepsi is so much better in the first place.
It's hard work sitting on the couch reading comics.) The story involves Buffy continuing on with the army of slayers created in the series finale.
The other problem is that it just feels like well-meaning but imitation Whedon.
I wondered briefly if he was Oz, if that gives you an inkling.) I may or may not continue the series.Three stars because the final story, "The Chain", about the life of a Buffy decoy was good and poignant and felt like vintage BtVS.
4/5 stars.I've been putting off reading these comics for a while, but after a recent Buffy rewatch, I thought I should give the comics a go!It was great to see the Scooby Gang back together, they've all grown up so much. But they still have the same humour and witty dialogue that I love so much. I was lost a few times but I got the hang of things, I can't wait to pick up the rest!
I loved the buffy the vampire slayer television show it is still one of my favourite tv shows of all time and I didn't really like how it ended and i honestly did want one last season but was never able to get that.
This comic picks up after the events of the last episode of season seven, buffy and the newly made slayers are now out in full force trying to fight and survive, All the slayers are now in separate squads run by one of the group.
Maybe I'm too big a fan!
Well. I am pretty much IN LOVE with Buffy since 1997 and the first episode came out!I mean badass, gorgeous and funny female lead. Awesome world-building. Awesome secondary characters. First LGBT lead character (even though they shouldn't have killed Tara... Still mad about this!)So, yeah!!! Buffy will always be a BIG WIN for me!! ALWAYS!This first volume didn't disappoint. I'll get to next real quick!!!
This has nothing to do with the ick factor of the whole he has a magical skin that saved him from dying because of Amy, this has to do with show cannon.
Changing this, even if they think of some "magical loophole" like, I don't know, he's technically not human anymore would be stupid.
I guess I just expect more from writer's who know they have a loyal fan base that tends to be detail oriented and are fact checkers.
So far, I'm not a fan of season 8, it's nice to have Buffy, but I'm uncertain as to whether I would just rather have my ideas vs.
Fans of Buffy will at least want to read this, the official continuation of the series.
Fortunately, they'll probably like it, too.
Reading this, I could easily hear the actors' voices in my head, especially with Xander.
No villains on the level of the Mayor, and not as compelling as I would have liked.
But it is still fun, and the last issue in the collection (about one of the Buffy decoys) was actually a nice read.
But average Buffy is still better than a lot of things I've read.
I was a late convert to Buffy--Season 7 to be exact.
My ex LOVED the series, and initially I scoffed.
But with his help, and armed with previous seasons on DVD, I too fell in love with these wonderful characters.
This trade paperback collects the first several issues of the newly-sanctioned, Joss Whedon-written and approved "Season 8" comic book.
Whedon's trademark gift for gab is delightfully present, as were most of my favorite characters.
His Buffy, Xander, and Willow are spot-on.
But I have to remember that this monthly comic series is still ongoing, so "patience, grasshopper" must be practiced.
It is my favorite television show, Buffy has been my ultimate role model since I was 11, the series and I go way back.
With that being said, it wasn't until 2014 that I decided to pick up the comic series, which is canon, according to the god that is Joss Whedon.
After reading it, it was ok.
I'll be reading the rest because I'm interested.
But I did feel some of the magic that made the tv series incredible were lost in the comic book.
Even some of the dialogue of Buffy, Xander, and even Dawn felt...
This was really cool- just like watching the show. Only thing is it's been about 6 years since I last watched the whole series, so I forgot some things. I probably would have enjoyed this even more if I had just finished season 7 before this, with all the little details fresh in my mind. Good job Joss!! I look forward to other volumes of Buffy :D
3rd Read: 08/17/20152nd Read: 5/21/2014Original Read: 4/7/2009
Not really into Xander as some important command guy, there wasn't nearly enough Willow, and the art could be better, especially since I'm trying to recognize characters based on the actors who played them in the show.
I know the art is fairly standard for comics; maybe I just have high standards from reading Saga.
I hope this grows on me!I was also doing this weird thing where I was trying to hear the actors' voices in my head while I was reading it, which only sort of worked.
But I also don't know why my brain is making me do that?
My brother was named after one of the characters in this. It better be good...
Just because the show ended and the hellmouth closed doesn't mean that Evil™ quit.Although as other reviews have pointed out, because Whedon is having a blast of flaunting the action without those budget restraints, these first issues are missing some of the more small-scale, intimate scenes -- the characters are so busy fending off massive threats that they don't get to interact with each other much, only having fleeting, small conversations between battles.
As much as I proclaim myself to be a complete Whedonite, I read this under an hour and didn't love it.
I thought, "Whedon dialogue on page with kool illustrations?
Additionally, perhaps because it was a comic, the transitions from story to story were so abrupt, I found myself confused as to the actions happening on the page.
It's a shame; I thought I would love it but I didn't.
I guess I'm more married to the live action stories than on the page; it's a completely different medium that either works for some people, or don't.
The antics back at home base however are a little tiresome, with some vague murmurings of the Big Bad and even vaguer interpersonal conflict between the major Scoobies (and I couldn't get more tired of giant Dawn).I followed a little irregularly for the next two major arcs (Vol 3 and 4) but eventually lost interest in the title.
The best Buffy was always that which was a potent metaphor for growing up, and the comic seemed more interested in rehashing old villains (and a vague, vague Big Bad) and old interpersonal dramas than forging the new future for the characters.
