https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/116121.Eternity
I saw positive references to Eon, the first book in the series, in Brian Aldiss's Trillion Year Spree, and I bought it before a long flight.
I don't disagree, though I think I'm even more reminded of A.E. van Vogt, whom Damon Knight memorably described as "a pygmy writer working on a giant typewriter".
We put Eon and Eternity underneath it, and they were exactly the right size to keep it level - they stayed there for several years, until we got around to buying a new couch, and we never had a minute of trouble with them.
Statutory warning to potential readers: the book is named based on the time it will take to get through it.
By the time Eternity was written in 1990, that was known, and Bear downplayed a lot of the Cold War plot events that were already established in the Eon universe.
Sadly this writing has become an exercise in out-of-date geopolitics and cosmology.Aside from that, in terms of plot and characterization, this is not as strong a work as the original Eon. About 30 years have passed since the sundering of the artificial pocket universe known as the Way from the hollowed and inhabited asteroid known as Thistledown, and Earth itself is only partially recovered.
While I initially had mixed feelings about Bear's Eon, I have to admit that certain points of his world did capture my interest and I did feel the desire to read more.
In this light, Eternity is excellent and shows us what happens to most of the important characters after the final events in Eon. In contrast though, the book was extremely slow to start and seemed mainly concerned about the characters attitudes and feelings as long passages were devoted to personal insight and environmental descriptions.
Overall, I would recommend fans of Eon to give this book a chance as it seems a fitting conclusion to the story, even if a bit long winded.
3.5 starsI found this second book in the series to be just slightly better than the first.
It is a direct sequel to Eon. Relatively, it had less politics, less technological descriptions, more drama and dialogues.
Yet, I did not really enjoy at all times.
Some parts of the story were such that I decided to nearly skim through them, while some were certainly interesting.
The continuing story is interesting enough, yet something was holding me back from not getting caught in its grip, and I was at several times wanting the book to just end.
De fapt am recitit-o si cu siguranta am inteles mai multe decat prima oara cand am citit-o ca pe o carte de sine statatoare.
Eternity by Greg Bear3/5 starsAlthough it has the same characters and universe (multiple universes really) as Eon, the first book in the trilogy, this is really quite a different book.
In Eon I felt I was being bombarded by too much new stuff all the time and this made the book and certainly my recollections of it more than a little confused.
Go figure.All in all not an excellent book, but a good enough one for me to read the third at some time in the future.
I must say the book kept me entranced to the very ending, finishing a 2am, but on the whole I really was not happy with how things worked out.
But since it kept me interested & since it is the first book I have read on my new Kindle it gets 3 stars rather than the two my assessment of the plot would incline me to give.**Mild spoilers: My objections: All the interesting world building was in Eon, the whole thing devolved into the gods messing us up, and basically everything was returned to what it was at the beginning of Eon. It was just not satisfying for me.
One of the things that makes great science fiction stand out is the big ideas. Eternity is full of big ideas. The story is well told, although it takes a while to get going, but once it does it clips along at a fair rate. Highly recommended.
Some years ago, a decade or more maybe; I tried to read this after having read Eon within the previous 6 mo.
I at that time found the culture of the granddaughter's planet excruiciating almost to read through; it seemed to feel jarring, so out of place with the rest of the book, and rather boring.BUT, maybe it's just cause I'm more mature now, or what, but I pushed past the first 8th of the book I didn't get past before, and was engaged before I even got that far.
This follow-up to Greg Bear's earlier "Eon" clinched my feelings about this two-part drama of parallel universes, asteroid starships, and space-time distortions.
While certainly a complex tale, Bear's pedestrian writing style and Tom Clancy/Michael Crichton sensibility for plot twists and character development rob the story of any majesty or serious social observation.
The beauty of a mathematically ingenious wormhole spanning universes and time itself becomes mostly a plot device for uninspired alien invasion/investigations.
The theme of knowing yourself and being home, labored upon obviously and even out loud by many characters, loses its poignancy early.I prefer Rendezvous with Rama.
This, the sequel to Eon, is much better than its predecessor. Jeopardy is introduced early and the book appears to be about some things; going home and getting old. Unfortunately I still found it hard to relate to most of the characters and their varied fates.There is, I discovered, a third book - I feel that I'd like to read it more to see where the SF ideas go than from a desire to follow the characters further. I'm in no pressing hurry, though.
This is the sequel to Eon, which I just reviewed. This book deals with some of the consequences of the artificial universe described in the first book. Because most of the book deals with re-opening the new universe, as well as politics, it's not as interesting as Eon. However, there is a large portion of the book which deals with a main character taken over by a vicious alien intelligence. Those parts are the most interesting.Overall I enjoyed the book, and would recommend it.
I listened to the audiobook version, read by Roy Abers.I enjoyed the book a great deal. Less so than the first book of the series, "Eon". Perhaps that was due to the fact that the first book introduced me to so many new ideas and was the initial world-building for the series. Still a great read.started: 2010-09-24.Sep.Fri 11:07:45finished: 2010-10-01.Oct.Fri 12:14:14duration: 14h:20m:44s
The sequel, Eternity, is about how mankind must give up it’s manipulation on space-time. After the message of hope brought by the first novel, it is interesting how in Eternity Bear takes humanity back down a notch, not closing the door to the future but simply reminding us that the gods do not take kindly to hubris. And through it all, Bear’s astounding imagination is combined with a gift for good, clear and interesting prose.http://www.books.rosboch.net/?p=437
A really good follow on from EON, however it was unlikely to have been as good as the original. I enjoyed catching up with the characters from EON and meeting some new ones. Where the story failed compared to the original is the ending, it is somewhat less structured and possibly rushed, where it does well is the sheer size and scale of the universe coupled with some big ideas and some nice twists.
I am an hardened fan of Greg Bear and have read a number of his books, i.e. Eon, The Serpent Mage, The Infinity Concerto, Blood Music and others. I have found them all to be a great and grasping read and reccommend them to anyone who likes good quality science fiction stories. The concept of this book being the second in the series is remarkable. His first, Eon was an amazing story and Legacy was also an incredible read.
This is one of the best books ever! My brain felt a little slow on the draw but I made it. This was so well written. This is the work of a man who has already accomplished his little menial stories to find his own style and bypassed the "I am the shit!" stage too. Such good work. It is a pity i read the second one first.
Superb sequel to Bear's masterpiece Eon, returning us to the plot and main characters several decades down the line from the plot of the first novel. Excellent work with preserving/developing characters and creating an interesting story without losing much of the momentum of the prequel. Definitely would read again. A+!
That feeling may have come from the current events in the United States, where you couldn't turn around without seeing SOMETHING political in your face.
In doing some quick research, I didn't see anything, so I guess I'll just have to be content with the endings that he gave the characters.If you want to know why I gave this book three stars, it's because I couldn't shake the "gads, this political crap is annoying!" feeling that I had because I let the current events color my judgement.
You can blame whoever (whomever?) you'd like for that one.Overall, it was a good book that would be worth a re-read somewhere down the line.
This book is the sequel to Eon. It tells the continuing stories of some of the key characters from the earlier book.
There are two parallel stories.
We see these divergent stories converge together with two of the humans that continued down the Way at the end of Eon. The ending has cosmic significance.Having been introduced to the concept of the Way in Eon, in my opinion its significance is not as great in this book, especially when it is not present for most of the story.
Gaian valtiot ovat myös ominaispiirteiltään tunnistettavissa oman aikamme maihin nähden.
Rhita on saanut isoäidiltään Esineitä, joiden avulla on mahdollista palata Tiehen ja Patrician kaipaamaan entisaikojen Maahan.Olmyn, tulevaisuuden ihmisen näkökulma sijoittuu Ohdakkeenvillaan.
Kaupunginmuistissa oleminen on tavallaan kuoleman jälkeistä elämää tai elämää ennen ”syntymää”.
Tulevaisuuden ihmiset ovat jakautuneet kahteen sosiaaliseen ryhmään.
Nyt hän palaa avatarina tärkeän sanoman kanssa – Tie on avattava ja suljettava uudelleen Ohdakkeenvillaan päässä, koska siitä riippuu 75 miljardin vuoden päässä olevien ihmisten valmistautuminen galaksin loppuun.
Tarina on tavallaan itsenäinen, mutta kärryille saattaa olla vaikea päästä ilman edellisen osan lukemista.
Kirjassa on myös henkilöitä tai heidän jälkeläisiään edellisestä osasta.
It picked up where Eon left off and continued the story line bringing it to a conclusion.
The lives of those characters were "resolved" in the final scenes of the book but they seemed more like an afterthought to the rest of the story.
The entire Gaia story-line could have been left out completely, and the Engineer could have resolved the question of the 'mystery's' ultimate existence in a short final scene that would have brought a sigh of relief to the reader's of Eon who wondered what had happened to her.
There are things I liked...
I think Olmy is a cool character.
The one thing I'll say for this book is that it really pushed the boundaries from the first book.
I don't think this is a book I would necessarily recommend to others, but I'm also not sorry I checked it out...
I happen to sort of know the author, which is why I decided to give these books a try, even though I don't read a lot of hard sci-fi.
I'll be checking out the prequel soon, to see what else I can learn about Olmy!
In this really good book we get visions of ultra transcended humans, peeks into Jart mentality, we revisit known characters and meet some descendants as well.
While I was reading this book I started getting a bit angry, because though they are very different, Jarts seemed to me pretty derivative of the Borg.
It took me some time to pick up the book again, and that happened when I did a little research and noticed that this book writing predates Borgs.
This was an entertaining book, that followed the path of several people and made it all worse until most of it got to it's destination.
If Eon was cool enough in its setting, this sequel offers nothing enticing:- no cool expansion of that setting- no plot continuation or improvement- same boring characters and political squabblesJust like Larry Niven's Ringworld, this started with a cool idea, but then the author kept trying to squeeze more money out of it, without coming with anything interesting or original.
This book was ok. Parts, I liked include learning more about the Jarts. I felt a bit bogged down by the attempt to weave a conclusion out of the threads of plot. I was glad to finish. I don't know if I will read Legacy, the next book.
Sadly didn't enjoy this as much as the first book. I think my interests were the opposite of the author's. I wanted more from Patricia, but instead got more on Olmy, who I didn't care for in the first book.
Questo secondo volume della serie di Eon non è leggibile autonomamente, ma deve essere necessariamente letto dopo Eon, altrimenti risulta incomprensibile; anche così l'ho trovato poco interessante e poco plausibile.
7/10Better than the first.
