https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/459093.The_Woman_Who_Rode_Away_and_Other_Stories
Only morally he swayed her, downed her, kept her in an invincible slavery.”The Rocking-Horse Winner is a powerful parable of doom – there is a payment for everything in this world and a winner never takes all.And my favorite allegory in this collection is The Man Who Loved Islands“He no longer worked at his book.
He liked to sit on the low elevation of his island, and see the sea; nothing but the pale, quiet sea.
And to feel his mind turn soft and hazy, like the hazy ocean.
But quite without substance.”The older we get the colder becomes the climate of our feelings.

I'm slightly saddened these stories have been collected together (though I understand they were all written at a certain point in DHL's life which is probably why they're together here) because while I loved all the feminist undertones and beautiful exploration of the American South in "St Mawr" I found "The Woman Who Rode Away" and "The Princess" really tough going.
So much problematic/depressing stuff going on in those stories - especially surrounding treatment of women and depictions of indigenous men (and yes "St Mawr" is also not without fault in this regard too).
Così fu per la stirpe di Cadmo; così è per la donna che fuggì a cavallo.
Volle avvicinarsi agli istinti, alla vita-fèra - quella idealizzata dal Lawrence: oltre i gravosi orpelli dell'intellettualismo -, incontrando proprio quell'animalità a cui non si può fare appello, che, qui, è propria del maschio è a cui lei, femmina, non è ammessa.
Da cacciatrice a preda - quel che, poi, è stato destino di molti.
Per pochi attimi ha conosciuto il suo sé-belva, entrando nell'armonia, poi la "saetta".Un racconto viscerale (1925) che è simbolo della svolta tematica intrapresa dal Lawrence dopo il viaggio in Messico.
My copy (1925) has only St. Mawr and The Princess in it. Both highly readable, esp. St. Mawr (the name of an ill-tempered stallion, incidentally), which explores a strangely problematic Anglo-American family as it breaks up. The Princess is interesting for depicting a whole life in some detail in a hundred pages, but doesn't leave a deep impression.
Lawrence è quello scrittore capace di trascinarti all'interno di un libro attraverso la sua incredibile bravura di descrivere situazioni, luoghi e sentimenti. In questo piccolo, ma grande, libro ci troviamo di fronte a una storia affascinante e brutale, non è possibile chiudere il libro, il desiderio di continuare a leggere è troppo grande. Di sicuro "La donna che fuggi a cavallo" è un ottimo libro per chiunque voglia approcciarsi all'autore, ma anche per chi a voglia di una lettura veloce, ma di certo non indifferente.
The Woman Who Rode Away is evocative and highlights the fact that Lawrence is deft with description: ‘He was a squeamish waif of an idealist’, for example, as well as ‘the chuckling sobbing cry of the coyote’ and ‘that gleam of after-hate in his eyes’.
Moving from English towns and villages to Texas and New Mexico, the descriptions are lovely and evocative; St. Mawr is a constant undercurrent, half beauty and half dread.
These stories may not go anywhere (far), plot-wise, but they are thought-provoking nonetheless.
سفر زن قاعدتاً با ریسک بالایی همراه بود. محرک او در پذیرفتن این ریسک، شرایط و وضعیت حال او بود: "هماکنون هم مرده ام. چه فرقی میکند گذر از مرده ای که هستم و انسانی که در آینده خواهد مرد."وضع فعلی او همانطور که نوشتم تعریفی نداشت اما این دلیل نمیشود که موتوری دایمی برای او باشد چنانکه هرچه به مقصدش نزدیکتر میشد سردرگمی و دلسردی بیشتری احساس میکرد... اگر دست خودش بود به دهکده برمیگشت تا در کنار شوهرش در امان باشد. (ص36)دو نکته در این جمله نهفته است:الف) اگر دست خودش بود... یعنی دست خودش نبود، پس دس
چه فرقی می‌کند گذر از مرده ای که هستم و انسانی که در آینده خواهد مرد."وضع فعلی او همانطور که نوشتم تعریفی نداشت اما این دلیل نمی‌شود که موتوری دایمی برای او باشد چنانکه هرچه به مقصدش نزدیک‌تر می‌شد سردرگمی و دلسردی بیشتری احساس می‌کرد...
اگر دست خودش بود به دهکده برمی‌گشت تا در کنار شوهرش در امان باشد.
(ص36)دو نکته در این جمله نهفته است:الف) اگر دست خودش بود...
یعنی دست خودش نبود، پس دست کی بود!؟ اینجاست که یکی از اصول محوری لارنس خودش را نشان می‌دهد: غریزه.ب) در کنار شوهرش در امان باشد...
I really liked most of the stories in the collection, especially the title story, and Sun and None of That...I didn't like Glad Ghosts in the beginning but by the end I had changed my mind. The only stories I really didn't like were Smile and The Last Laugh. I've come to really like DHL. He was versatile, and deft at conjuring up a scene, and painting a character.
Read so far:Two blue birds --Sun --The woman who rode away --Smile --The border-line --Jimmy and the desperate woman --The last laugh --In love --The man who loved islands --2Glad ghosts --None of that! --The rocking-horse winner --3The lovely lady --3
Gabbie
A few Of the stories were very good, others ok, all were ODD. I want to read some of the author's novels now.
The story events revolve around a rebellious woman who destroys the limitations and traditions of the first half of the 20th century's society, in addition to his portraying of Chilchuis who sacrifices the woman in a barbaric rituals in hope of their salvation.Subsequently, readers and critics might be ambivalent in his ( Lawrence) real attitude. Is he blames the woman for her mysterious journey? Does she deserve her death? Or he wants to blame and criticize the black naïve Indian tribes? Or Lawrence might be criticizing both?!
