https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12658.Hawaii
I picked up this book in the library and one of the things I noticed first about the book was that the edges of the pages have become soft from the hands and fingers of hundreds of readers. The book has been rebound in one of those lovely flat blue library covers. In the back Marsha left her phone number on a yellow sticky note which I have suspicions might be for a support group for those that have started and failed to finish reading Hawaii. 937 pages later I can say that this book is a two s
I'm sure a good editor today could slice and cut this book down to 600 pages without losing too much of the intent of the writer.I read somewhere that this book has done more for Hawaiian tourism than any other book published about Hawaii.
An exception of course is alternative history where I expect the writer to completely change the outcome of history, a good example is Fatherland by Robert Harris.I have put a Shoal of Time: a History of the Hawaiian Islands by Gavan Dawes in my queue to read so that I can hopefully be exposed to a more historical accurate version of Hawaii.
My 10th grade reading teacher "Mrs. Fine" introduced me to this very large book.
Read several books, do book reports, get a grade.
Hawaii was the first book she chose for me.
I read the 1st 50 pages...
I went back to complain that it was boring, she encouraged me to keep reading...
she encouraged me to read just a little bit more.
So very thankful for Ms. Fine that taught HOOKED ON BOOKS at East Brunswick High School, in East Bruns., NJ in 1973.
I wish I could thank her face to face.You changed my life Ms. Fine.
Hawaii was the first Michener novel I read, more because of my interest in Hawaii the place than in the novel or writer.
Having been lucky enough to travel there several times in my life, I've been fascinated in the history and culture.
Michener, for those of you not familiar with his writing, was fanatical about detail.
His histories start with the dawn of man, or in this case the rising of lava out of the depths of the ocean, and proceed on to present day, with interesting fictional stories laced in to entertain you.
Actually, I read it in a volume of Reader's Digest Condensed Books whose editors have taken the liberty of describing the story of only the first generation of a Polynesian tribe that leaves the island of Bora Bora heading off for the North on a canoe named "West Wind to Hawaii" in search of Havaiki -- which probably became Hawaii with the passage of time.James Michener and his wife, Mari, at home with their formidable art collection.
Little Eyes is the name of a constellation of three stars which help in locating Havaiki.James Michener, with a painting of himself, at his home in Pennsylvania in 1962.
As in all of Michener's books, this is a sweeping story of the history of Hawai'i from the precolonial period until today. The characters are a bit two-dimensional but the story is still fascinating and it makes you want to fly to Honolulu, sweep away the hordes of Japanese tourists and try to imagine it without all the horrid hotels littering the littoral towards Diamond Head.
I needed a bottle of wine and some stimulants to get through this one, and I'm Hawaiian! The opening is enthralling but skip the entire middle section. I couldn't get past the missionary section and had to keep a barf bucket close by... I loved the rest.
1.5 stars - I didn't like it.Sigh…… I have heard such marvelous things about Michener that I have acquired quite a few of his books over the years as I found them on sale here and there.
I found the dialogue to be painfully stilted, an utter lack of setting the scene (I knew the plot was currently in Bora Bora because it was stated over and over and over, but I sure didn’t feel like I was armchair traveling), completely forgettable characters and a level of disengagement that required a forced focus to continue paying attention to what I was reading.
Now he heard Mato shout, "We've found him!”Keep reading, I said to myself.
Each focuses primarily on one family, with other characters woven in, and he has such a knack for creating people.
The worst is an extended digression in which an old patrician white character learns valuable lessons (about something...sex?
And then Michener waits until the very end of the book to spring this incredible groaner of a surprise, where we learn that this book has been narrarated by one of the main characters, even though this was never even hinted at before, and even though this ruins the attitude that each primary family is to be taken as equal to the others.
It's a pretty huge book but reads quickly.
It was also a bit jarring, but probably accurate, to see how racist many of the characters were.
But I bogged down a bit in the fourth section and from then on felt a sense of déjà vu as endless missionary descendants took advantage of successive waves of immigrants.
It's probably a good book to read if you are interested in Hawaiian history if not for accuracy but more to give a broad brush idea of the players and to send you on to more authoritative sources.
Several articles I read referred to James Michener as a careful historian of Hawaii and since this book is considered one of his best, I borrowed it from the library.
The book is beastly long-- 1000 pages-- but is actually a collection of four separate stories that stretch from the geological formation of Hawaii up through the attainment of statehood in 1959.
The story hews to accepted anthropological dicta about aboriginal settlers to the islands and has earned Michener accolades from scholars.The book jumps ahead to the 1800's and the introduction of Christian missionaries as well as whalers and other merchants plying the Pacific rim.
They should put a photo of this book in the dictionary beside the definition of epic because epic it is. Covering the history of hawaii and even the prehistory, Michener covers every aspect of what shaped the tropical islands from volcanoes to war to the myriad people who lived there. Michener humanizes his history by telling the stories of individuals and their families, their ambitions, and their reactions to the changing world. While it is a very long book, I would highly recommend it. Think of it as a series and dive in!
The sea-voyage of the ten missionaries to Hawaii from Boston, around Cape Horn (the southern tip of South America) was a very interesting part indeed.From the Starving Village, describes the continuing transformation of the Hawaiian society, but now with the influx of immigrating Chinese from their starving villages of their homeland, to work on the pineapple and sugar plantations.
Also contains the bombing of the Pearl Harbour, and how the Japanese on the islands fight for America in the Second World War in Europe.The Golden Men, deals with how the commingling of various peoples in Hawaii in the past, have produced something called as 'The Golden Man', someone who now has a different way of thinking than his progenitors.
Reading this was a monumental task: I started it on the plane to Hawaii in mid August and finished it on October 1st!!I nearly didn't make it through the first chapter about the formation of the islands, but I'm glad I persevered.
Michener is especially good at moments of high tension, which are amplified by his rather laconic, understated style.
There are many scenes and relationships between characters that will remain with me: the throwing of the "god" into the sea by the Bora Borans, the voyage of the missionaries round the Cape, the death of Malama, Abner Hale's relationship with Jerusha, and Kee Mun Ki's with Char Nyuk Tsin; the leper colony at Molokai, "Wild Whip" Hoxworth and the growing of pineapples on Kauai, the picture brides from Japan and the "swap" between Kamejiro and Ishii...
I've never read any of Michener's work and now, at the end of this 1130 page, ultra-fine print book, I feel as if I just run a marathon, but, my feet don't hurt.
I enjoyed it and I'm so glad I read it after visiting Hawaii.
When we were there, I didn't feel like I was part of the United States at all.
I definitely have to read something relatively fluffy next.On a side note, I bought about a dozen Michener books at the request of my mom at a library sale.
I read "Alaska" last spring in preparation for traveling through that state.
That book provided me with not facts but with a sort of historical frame of reference--from early pre-history to state-hood--through which to view the place and the people.
While I feel reluctant to dedicate myself to 1,000 pages because it precludes dipping into other books for the duration, this book provided quite compelling reading.
Above all, I am amazed at Michener's ability to tell many great tales virtually in summary form in order to fit it all in to "only" 1,000 pages.
Written back in 1954, Hawaii is Michener's 2nd novel but his historical fiction formula is already set.
His research is impeccable and his story is both true and what makes him, for me, the best historical fiction author is that his observations and intimations of where the characters and societies are heading are almost always accurate even 60+ years after he wrote this novel.
The story is thus divided into those three periods: the start of the ancient Hawaiian civilization, the first missionaries and their attempts to cultivate an Americanized Christian society, and the story of the Asian/Pacific Islander immigrants that are brought in to work the businesses of the established children of missionaries.The emotional heart of the story seems accurate (at least, from my vantage point as a malihini), but make no mistake, this is NOT a history book.
The first chapter reads like a scifi novella about the formation of the Hawaiian islands; I kept waiting for a space ship to land.
The next chapter reads like literary fiction, describing the American missionaries' arrival in both celebratory and condemnatory terms.
The next chapters read like mid-century popular reporting chock full of racist, Orientalist distortions that it might or might not be trying to undercut.
And then in its final moments, the book reveals that it's being written in the first-person by one of those very damned haoles.
Added 2/17/17. (first published 1959) 2/17/17 - I read this a long time ago. I remember liking it very much. It really drew me in and, after all these years, I still remember it as a good book. So I'm giving it 5 stars.
The writing was pretty good, but after 300 pages I couldn't see myself doing that for another 700. Lots of Idontgiveafuck in this. I really couldn't handle the Calvinist perspective. They simply use the G-word (view spoiler)[God (hide spoiler)] too much here.
I cannot believe I've just got around to reading my first Michener! After I get done kicking myself,I'm going to pick out another one. He's a fabulous storyteller!
I took a break for several months, and it's good that I did because I might not have been able to finish.This book is a very comprehensive history of Hawaii from the first Polynesian settlers through to the mid-1950's.
(Good old colonialism.) It was interesting to learn how the Chinese and Japanese were brought to Hawaii to work in the fields, and there were a number of different story lines branching off from those people.
My favorite was the story of Char Nyuk Tsin - a Chinese woman who built a legacy of land and family in Hawaii and did quite well for herself.
I will definitely be reading more of his books.
There's history and then there's H-I - S - T - O - R - Y that spans the geologic and sociological timelines.
His stories span generations, from the both the perspective of native cultures (sometimes including the animals) and "transplants." Some market their wares or beliefs, some exploit resources.
Nearly all of Michener's characters are genuine enough to gain our sympathies.
It is instructive in the best sort of way because the reader gains a better understanding of varied cultures in the broad spectrum and of him/herself in the "what's universal is personal" analysis.
I first read this novel in the 1970's.
If you have seen the movie, trust me you need to read the book.
Melting pot is a lovely concept, but it didn't come about easily and I suspect it never will.I reread this giant of a book in preperation of our seventh trip to the islands and enjoyed it as much as the first time.
I have heard islanders say Michner didn't get it right, but this is a novel, not a history and the reader should be aware of that.
Read this decades ago and yet recall the book like it was yesterday. What a masterful storyteller Michener is. I used to joke about each book starting at the beginning of time, but he has an amazing way of making the reader care and then developing interesting characters to relate fascinating histories. I'll reread them all when I retire.
“But have you heard what I said about land reform?” he pressed.
“That’s what we’re talking about,” Noelani said in her precise Bostonian accent.
“You would hurt your father very much if you were active in my campaign,” Shigeo warned.
“As a matter of fact, you would probably hurt me, too.” “I studied politics at Wellesley,” she replied firmly.
“Were you at Wellesley?” he asked.
“While you were at Harvard,” she said.A lot of the characters were annoying, but in the way that a lot of people in real life are annoying.
But I have to forgive any book with smart young women from Wellesley.
I read this epic many years ago, and it is one of the few that I hope to read again in the near future. As with many of Micheners books, I felt that it was tedious getting through the earlier chapters, and probably one of the longest books I've ever read, but very well worth the effort!
The huge description of the epic saga of Hawaii since its discovery by some natives coming from Bora Bora up to the birth of an American state.
It took me about 150 pages until i was completly hooked. Easily became one of my favorite books. I love how Michener focuses more on the history and less on fiction.
I truly did enjoy in Hawaii, the way the islands were formed and how primitive life was transported to these islands far off from everything.Sometime around 800AD, man still did not appear on the islands but about 2,500 miles away on the islands of Bora Bora, man, later described as Polynesians, had thrived there for many centuries and had developed a culture with mores and beliefs and for all intents and purposes the life there was a kind of Paradise with a freedom and a nakedness that was almost poetic.
