https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10847.Under_the_Banner_of_Heaven
I think what makes it so scary for me is the devotion to Smith and his ridiculous story told in the Book of Mormon that flies in the face of fact and common sense.
Though the Mormon story is not much stranger than other major religious stories, it certainly is a stretch even by the standards of faith.But the book is not really about the mainstream LDS church and I certainly don't mean to ridicule these people (at least not any more than other religious people who deny history and scientific fact) -- the book really shows us about what happens when people follow a religion to its "logical" conclusion in an extreme sense.
I am led inescapably by this book to view Mormonism as a cult that has changed and adapted as was expedient given the various political currents ebbing and waning.I've seen, here in the West Indies, how a cult can gain both the practice and the legitimacy of an established religion within a few generations.
And I've read it here in this book as a cult developed into what would become the FLDS (still a cult) and the mainstream Mormons.In the first generation, the founder either seeks influence and power as with Mormonism, or is deified, Haile Selassie in Rastafarianism.
Here are some of my conclusions and questions after reading this sprawling, fascinating account of the history of polygamy and violence within the Church of Later Day Saints:There is a certain appeal to having no choices.
(See "blood atonement," as typified in the Mountain Meadows Massacre.) Third, I don't want to be a believer in a faith that tells me I have to earn love-- least of all, God's.
(It seems so, according to the Book of Mormon.)4) Would all religions seem this crazy if we were only 200 years out, and had intimate, dirty details of each guru's life?5) Is there anything inherently wrong with polygamy?
4.0 to 4.5 stars. For non-fiction, this book had me absolutely riveted from the very beginning. This true crime narative has three main themes, all of which I think Krakauer accomplishes extremely well. First, this is a true crime story of the brutal double murder of Brenda Lafferty and her 15 month old baby girl at the hands Ron and Dan Lafferty (the older brothers of Brenda’s husband). Second, is a survey of the origin and early history of Mormonism and the basic doctrines of the Mormon faith
First, this is a true crime story of the brutal double murder of Brenda Lafferty and her 15 month old baby girl at the hands Ron and Dan Lafferty (the older brothers of Brenda’s husband).
Third, the book details the deep divide and animosity between the Mormon church and the various fundamentalist Mormon sects, including the one to which the murderers belonged.
Krakauer also describes how the fundamentalist Mormons view the U.S. Government as Satan and believe that stealing from the government (either in the form of educational grants for cities which they control or in the form of welfare for their numerous wives and children) is their sacred duty.
I guess a book called Is the Entire State of Utah Out of Its Mind?
In sum, though, Under the Banner of Heaven is as gripping and hard to put down as Krakauer's other fine books, and offers a valuable insight into a strange, deeply American phenomenon.
One small but not unimportant note: Krakauer includes a final "Author's Remarks" section at the end of the book.
These remarks chiefly concern Krakauer's own attitudes toward religion and Mormonism, as well as his intent in writing the book.
BoringThis is a true crime novel--maybe--set against the history of the Mormon Church--but not really--trying to tie in a couple of murders committed by a couple of sickos--all too common--into an historical and political climate of post-terrorist, millennial religious revival--unsuccessfully.For true crime, it's shockingly dull, and the crime is committed by the middle of the book, but you already know it's going to happen because it's committed in the prologue, too.
The characters aren't interesting, their motivations are the ordinary motivations of religious sickos, and the detail is presented tediously.The Mormon Church is presented as entirely to blame for the murderers' thoughts and the victims, and for Elizabeth Smart's abduction and captivity.
But I believe that those who truly have a testimony of the restoration of the gospel, the prophet Joseph Smith, and especially of the Lord Jesus Christ; these people would not sway from their beliefs.
Polygamy is not currently being practiced by any member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints that is in good standing.
I know that Jesus Christ did restore His church here upon the earth through Joseph Smith.
I really enjoyed Into Thin Air, but now I wonder if it is poorly done as this book was. As a Mormon I was amazed at Krakauer's complete naivete that he's trying to pass off as expertise and a well-researched book. I'd be scared of Mormonism too if I read this and didn't know better. The logic leaps he makes are simply massive. For a story about the Lafferty's, this is a nicely told yarn. For understanding its extrapolation into a story about Mormonism it is foolishness at its finest.
Intriguing and Incisively IconoclasticRon & Dan Lafferty, convicted of vicious 1984 murders of their brother's wife & infant daughter (shown below)A razor-edged examination of fanaticism in religion, focused primarily on the Mormon Church and its fundamentalist offshoot sects that continue to adhere to the norms the federal government forced the Church to abandon over a century ago: polygamy and the marriage of pubescent females.
Jon Krakauer concentrates on the true story of the 1984 murders of a woman and her infant daughter, immersing the reader in a timeline that shows the violence of some of today's Mormon-offshoot fundamentalists can be traced back, at least in part, to the Church's origins after its leaders were banished by Eastern U.S.' post-Victorian society for polygamy and early marriages.
Thank God that’s over (no pun intended)!
This book may have been confused about what it was or maybe it’s just me thats confused, but by the end of this (or, to be more accurate, well before the middle) I felt saturated with history and facts(?) to the point that I could no longer distinguish what was referring to Mormonism and what was FLDS.
The crime discussed on the cover doesn’t feel central to the book, and I didn’t get a true sense of where the author was placing blame...narcissistic personality disorder or FLDS doctrine.
I feel a little drained after this.
Krakauer looks at the history of violence in the Mormon religion (both against them and perpetrated by them) and how this violence, romanticized by modern fundamentalist Mormon polygamists, led two men to kill their sister-in-law and her baby because they said God told them to.
Using this lens he looks at how fundamentalist Mormon groups emerged once the mainstream Mormon church abandoned polygamy and how the polygamist movement has split into different groups over time.Krakauer does not attack religion or the Mormons per se.
These histories are interrelated because the murder was motivated by endeavors of the Lafferty brothers to follow their understanding of the original manifestation of LDS teachings that enabled all believers to receive and interpret messages from God. They believed they were obeying the will of God by committing the murders.I particularly found interesting the portion near the end of the book that excerpted portions of the trial transcript regarding the sanity of the defendant Ron Lafferty.
My father's family is obsessed with Mormons, I think it's fair to say.
Despite the inaccuracies of some of our perceptions of the LDS, this curiousity definitely added to my interest and enjoyment of this book, which is not so much a criticism of the Mormon Church as a look into how its history led to some very gruesome murders.
I read it for my father's book club, and we had a debate about how fair he was being.
A nonfiction that narrates a history of the latter day church - the Mormons- their tale, their beginning with Joseph Smith and the story of the Golden plates.
Polygamy, and how that tenant in the historical church caused a schism and gave birth to the fundamental LDS, that believes in polygamy, while the main stream LDS, shunned away from polygamy for various political and religious reasons.
This book also praises the women who left the polygamous life which some family trees looked like nuclear power plant blueprints than a normal family tree.
A very informative and I believe controversial book for any one who is a Mormon.
I'll say this: Krakauer's well-researched, exceedingly well-written 2003 book, which is 1/3rd a true crime examination of the brutal 1984 murders of Brenda Lafferty and her young daughter Erika by two Fundamentalist (i.e. polygamous) Mormons Dan and Ron Lafferty (her brothers-in-law) and 2/3rds an exhaustive examination of the Mormon religion (particularly its violent foment), is a fascinating read.
Still, Krakauer's points are persuasive enough to give anyone pause about the Fundamentalist Mormon faith (if not its still-strong ties to mainstream Mormonism), which is why I give a book four stars that made me so uncomfortable while reading it.
This book is great for it's depiction and unbiased view of Mormonism.
Then came Joseph Smith, with the concept of a loving God. It was much more attractive to people, and people converted to Mormonism with enthusiasm.* The origins and culture of polygamy in America:Joseph Smith was obviously a philanderer of the first order, but his religious beliefs meant he had to make these relationships right in the eyes of God, so he married all the women he fell in lust with.
If you go by the precis, this is a true crime story- the unpleasant tale of the Lafferty brothers, Ron and Dan, two Mormon fundamentalists who come to believe that God has commanded them to kill the woman Ron blames for persuading his wife to divorce him (because he was descending into fundamentalism and sort of losing his mind...or was it the other way around?), as well as her infant child.
And loving our neighbors.
However, while Krakauer believes it has something to do with the doctrine or leaders, I believe it is entirely due to opposition.Good things - the best things - are perverted the most.Religion, a means to learn about and worship God. And yet, so much evil, so much harm throughout history to His children has been brought about by its name.
I think those who don't believe, like Krakauer himself, find it awfully easy to find fault with faith, with religion, because they focus and magnify the imperfections of man.
The Mormons themselves can't figure out what's revelation or not and who is or is not a prophet as Joseph Smith discovered to his dismay.
His original revelation suggested that any Mormon could receive a revelation but quickly got another message from God that revelations would only go through Joseph Smith or his appointee.
Most of us would consider them delusional and in the case of Dan and Ron Lafferty who insisted God had told them to strike down the infidels who happened to be their wives.
The Lafferty’s had been fans of Robert Crossfield, otherwise known as Onias, who claimed to have received several revelations of God making hm the one and true prophet.
My expectation was to walk away thinking, “hm, yes, Mormon fundamentalists are interesting, hm.” But instead, I feel like this book magically sprouted a pair of legs, donned a pair of wicked shitkickers and promptly nailed me in the gut.
Thank you Jon Krakauer, your organizational management and storytelling abilities have just earned you another fan.In the prologue of the book, Krakauer makes some important statements about fundamentalists, hoping to impress upon his readers that the bizarre story he is about to share is not characteristic of the entire Mormon faith but that it goes to show that religious fundamentalism can be a very bad thing that can sprout from any religion or school of thought, and I appreciated that he stated that straight off the bat.For most Americans, the thought of polygamy is truly scandalous.
I simply cannot fathom the mind of a person who claims to KNOW, without a shadow of a doubt, that God has spoken to them.
Though I’m sure, from a Mormon point-of-view, there are many things to criticise (I’m vaguely aware of some controversy surrounding this book and it’s reception by the LDS community), and it isn’t terribly difficult to determine what Krakauer’s opinion is, I think he made an effort to present things as fairly as possible.
"I have to admit, the terrorists were following their prophet. They were willing to do essentially what I did. I see the parallel. But the difference between those guys and me is, they were following a false prophet, and I'm not." - Dan Lafferty There is a dark side to religious devotion that is too often ignored or denied. As a means of motivating people to be cruel or inhumane—as a means of inciting evil, to borrow the vocabulary of the devout—there may be no more potent force than religion. M
But the difference between those guys and me is, they were following a false prophet, and I'm not." - Dan Lafferty
There is a dark side to religious devotion that is too often ignored or denied.
More like 3.5 stars - The stuff involving the Lafferty murders was compelling but a lot of the historical side was hard to follow.
At times hard to read, but compelling all the same.I mean there's so much more about Mormon Fundamentalists, Joseph Smith, black people being 
And when religious fanaticism supplants ratiocination, all bets are suddenly off.
Somewhere, there is a story aching to be told about Mormonism, the positive and negative effects of religious faith on thought and psychological development, the painting of an integrated mainstream with the tarred brush of extremist fringes, and the general place of religion in US culture. This book is oh, so totally not it.
I still think it's a horribly misogynistic religion that goes even further than all other religions I know to take away all responsibility, independent thought, and individualism, and literally sacrifice oneself to god and whoever is your president and high lord protector (the title isn't exactly this, but is just as preposterous), whether you be regular Mormon or fundamentalist -- of course, he is a man, without a doubt.The crux of the book is the deaths of Eric and her eight or so year-old daughter at the hands of the Lafferty brothers who still can't decide who officially slit the girls throats.While the book managed to enrage me throughout, it did serve to educate and enlighten me on the religion in general, and on the important differences between the fundamentalists and the Latter Day Saints (LDS).
Also read my review here: http://bookbum.weebly.com/book-review...TRIGGER WARNING: rape, incest, domestic abuse, child abuse, animal abuse, child murderI’m speechless. (OK, maybe not). What the heck did I just read? You’re telling me this is  non-fiction?  ...How? HOW? This isn’t just some freak incident either, people live like what’s described in this book, I’m baffled by it. I mean I’m a little baffled by strict religious following anyway (no offence meant) but Mormonism is just on another le
You really can’t pick a right and wrong side, they’re both pretty terrible.This book's main focus is on how people's strong faith in Mormonism makes them believe they're above the laws of the land, so they go and commit crimes they think are justified and right.
How awful is that, to believe that you must share your husband with other women, because for men of the Mormon faith, women are just child bearers, nothing more.
It's incredible to read all about how Joseph Smith magicked up Mormon faith and how gruesome and evil polygamy really is.
It would hurt them a great deal and it would weaken their ideals about you while accomplishing absolutely nothing as far as helping them understand you as their parent.
I understand that is the perspective of both books, to tell the one side to build their argument, however, this one is just not for me.Krakauer has done a very good job, though, of taking an awful lot of information and trying to weave a pretty concise history out of a lot of convoluted material.(See what I did right there, Jon. I gave a kind of negative review, but also found something good in it.)
By the end of the book you have so many people and so many families roaming around you no longer really know who's who except for Joseph Smith.I also didn't like how we kept jumping around.
Krakauer, while shining light on the wrong the church and it's split-offs have done, he also shows the wrong that's been done to the church and the persecution it's had to go through since it's conception.The whole book is shocking and makes you think, but it's not until the end when we get to the argument of whether or not Ron Lafferty should be declared insane, that you really sit up in interest.
Krakauer gives a well-researched (judging from the length of the bibliography) account of the history of the Mormon church, interwoven with an absolutely chilling look at Mormon Fundamentalist communities that practice polygamy in the desert wilds of Utah, Arizona, and Canada.
Krakauer has been accused by some of not presenting an even-handed account, and I think it's true that it's easy to see that he thinks Mormon fundamentalism is absurd.
He lets the absurdities of Mormon history and belief speak for themselves.
No direct criticism could be so damning.Particularly interesting is the part of the book where Krakauer talks about religion and insanity.
The low rating isn't because the book is poorly written--it's not.
At times the book is fascinating and at times horrifying (my husband just finished it too and found it riveting).
Although well researched and even-handed at times, as he explored the "underbelly" of Mormonism, there was undercurrent of contempt from the author.
It showed in the description of a man with a comb-over, liver spots and bad grammar who Krakauer chose to represent contemporary LDS people, it showed in the comment of an extreme fundamentalist defector who believed that only a Mormon girl would be caught in Elizabeth Smart's situation (how would she know?
I'd be interested in reading the authors' response to criticism in the second edition.
