https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/73184.Living_Buddha_Living_Christ
Yet I tend to find the most comfort in books centered around Buddhism.
I can see the benefit of both belief systems, without surrendering to their dogma.
And that may be why I enjoy reading his material so much.
If anything, Hanh stresses the importance of not giving into "religious imperialism," or as I like to call it, "my God is better than your God." Hanh shows how one can make both belief systems work for you, and bring about peace of mind.
Nothing else I say about this book will do it justice.
I have read many reviews here on Living Buddha, Living Christ, and find that the general opinion is that Hanh is converging Christ and Buddha into one teaching.
In several passages Hanh refers to the intolerance that Christianity has for other religions because of "their notion that Christianity provides the only salvation and all other religious traditions are of no use.
Living Buddha, Living Christ is an exceptional work on bringing peace and harmony between the two religions by showing similarities in the teachings of Buddha and Christ.
Some reviewers seem to think Hanh doesn't understand Christianity.
And in that, I believe Hanh does an excellent job.As the book title clearly states, it is not just about Christianity, so if you'd like to read primarily about that, go back and note the Buddha part of the title and take a clue from it.
I suspect the Christians who didn't care for the depiction might be harboring an agenda in favor of their own faith.
If you are truly okay with the concept that other faiths don't discount your own, you should be fine with this book.
But as to what is the way out, I do not think that there are two institutions in the universe which contradict each other so flatly as Buddhism and Christianity."I certainly agree with the author, a Buddhist monk, that there is insight to be found in all religions, but I don't agree you can or should sample them like a fruit salad.
The author rejects the idea that Christ should be regarded as "unique" as being a narrow minded sort of attitude; in short, he rejects the CORE Christian belief that Christ is MORE than any human being as being essential to Christianity before he embarks on his quest to draws parallels between Christianity and Buddhism.
This book changed my traditional thinking of Christ as the Only Begotten Son of God, to more of an example and teacher, which makes more sense to me. The book is written with such a passive sense that it doesn't trigger religious defenses like most other church-related literature. I loved everything about it.
This book reminds the reader that concepts, the Self, disconnectiveness and the like are destructive approaches to a life that is interconnected.
One does not act out of a selfish desire but because of their realization and mindfulness within the greater and more complete assessment of all life.
While there are parts that do not resonate with me (for instance, how he muddles the Eucharist into Christ being in me and I in Christ and the bread and wine all the same), his reminder to stop being so occupied with my own self is a helpful life approach.
This book was incredibly relatable to me because although I was raised in a Christian family as a church-going Christian, I've had the personal opinion that religion shouldn't have to fit a cookie-mold, and that picking and choosing aspects that you believe in from different religions should be perfectly okay if it resonates with your personal beliefs.
Referring back to his opinion that it is insightful to look into many aspects of the different religions, I feel like it is a good way of deciding which beliefs work best with your personal spiritual endeavors.
It is a mistake to read this book as comparing Buddha with Christ because Buddha is Buddha and Christ is Christ.
However, we as Christians can take some good tips from Thich in how he tries to establish dialog between the two sides and the good tips we can like learn from Buddhism such as living mindfully.
We in the Middle East are still learning the ABC of human dialogue and Thich is the best master here on topics like that of human communication.It is a mistake to judge Buddhism and Thich from the outside.
I can read all his books over and over and never get bored ever.
Anything that doesnt lead people to the truth about Christ and His being sent to die for the sins of all, and that God's love is the only motive behind this and why He desire's we have eternal life living, with Him...is deception to it's highest...I know many have had bad experiences in church, but God's love is the only reason He sent Jesus...He wasnt only Christ...but Jesus the son of God the only living God...I'm so glad to read that this monk has had great enlightment and experience in what he has spoken...but there is only one God and One Jesus...and only One way to the Father..and its thru Jesus...I pray all will find this path, and enter in through this gate..it's open...and not base God on what has happened in the past, but who He is...you can seek HIm and ask Him yourself...He will be glad to prove Himself and answer you...dont just take my word for it..but ask God yourselfblessings eternal to all...this was really nice...
My son Ryan suggested this book to me. I found it very interesting. It compares the teaching of Buddha with the teachings of Christ. I think the right path is like the spokes of a wheel, leading to the center wherein lies the truth. ( I am sure this is not an original idea but I don't know where it came from ). While most religious belief systems feel they are the only one, they all teach the same basic values but no one listens to anyone else and all seem to be groping around in a spiritual darkness.
In some ways, Thich Nhat Hanh is more relatable to me than even teachers of my own tradition because I know he's not selling theology or salvation as a belief, but salvation meaning love, understanding, and freedom as the result of practice, particularly mindfulness.A Buddhist monk is suggesting in such simple language that we emulate the living Christ.That's a practice, a faith, a church, a spirituality, a religion I can back--emulating Christ.
What matters most is my belief in his life and its ability to teach me how to practice love, understanding, and liberation and to show compassion for others.I will go forward from these pages with an aim to practice the life of Christ and learn from the Buddha.
[Some notes taken from an interview Trich gave].   Born in Vietnam, in 1926, Thích Nhat Hanh has been a prominent figure in Buddhist circles, especially for his role in the Vietnam War and the Peace (non-violent) movement the world over. He would be exiled for 39 years (it was like being taken “out of the beehive”). He was ordained a Buddhist monk at the age of 16. In 1965 he wrote a letter to Martin Luther King. Then they met in 1966 in the US. In Geneva, Martin L. King was called a "bodhisattv
[Some notes taken from an interview Trich gave].
In 1965 he wrote a letter to Martin Luther King.
On the monks setting themselves on fire (during the Vietnam war) Trích said: that was an “act of love”, not of despair.
(2) The importance of laughing…and living (happily) in the present MOMENT….with mindfulness and concentration.
(3) About problems in relationships; he said when a partner having problem, you should tell him/her: “darling I am here for you” (that’s the 1st mantra).
(…) and if you are having problems, you should tell your partner: “please, help me” (that’s the 4th mantra).
That’s Buddhist psychology.
Finally, a monk I can believe in! Thich Nhat Hanh's shining simplicity, generosity and compassion pours through every line in this book that fuses ideas from both Judeo-Christianity and Mahayana-Buddhism. God/Christ/Buddha as spirit and not as some judgmental, external creator; the spirit that runs through our hearts as love/compassion/energy and which should (even as, more often than not, it doesn't) unite the world.
Here Chesterton is engaging with a different author of a different book in a different time about Buddhism and Christianity, but I found Thich Nhat Hanh to be using some of the same rhetorical devices.
The examples Chesterton uses are not present in "Living Buddha, Living Christ", but the spirit of the comparison stays true."[Many people] are always insisting that Christianity and Buddhism are very much alike...
That Buddhism approves of mercy or of self-restraint is not to say that it is specially like Christianity; it is only to say that it is not utterly unlike all human existence.
My life has been a bit off and the most recent stumble sent me towards the bookshelf where I happened to have a stack of Buddhism related books squirreled away.This isn’t quite what I wanted it to be but what I wanted isn’t exactly clear to me either.
The writing style felt a bit choppy and repetitive in areas so I couldn’t get into the flow like I needed to.
The latter points back at me for not matching my interests better with the right reading material.So the rock still sits, more exposed than ever before which means I will need to head back to the book drawing board and find something more along what I think I am looking for.
For example on page 56 He says: "To him [a Protestant minister] love could only be symbolized by a person.
That is why belief in the resurrection is so important to Christians." I have never heard a fellow Christian say that love can "only be symbolized as a person" He has it backwards.
While Christians believe that God is Love, god is not a symbol of love but love is a symbol of God. Second, the main point of the resurrection is not that Christ and therefor love lives on.
Christians believe that the spit of all of us will continue after death of the body.
This book actually helped me to understand the teachings of Jesus so much better than all the Christian books and Bible's i've read and studied. Who knew it would be a Buddhist monk to do it! This book is amazing, I really enjoyed it.
There's a lot of similarities, yes, but that's really important and I think most Christians would see that as an essential difference b/t the religions.
I do believe you should still be able to find insight and wisdom from Buddhism even if you do believe those things about Christ, but I think that's more of a barrier to making connections than Hanh is possibly admitting?
So all in all, some helpful insights about the connections and similarities b/t these two religions, but I would have loved to delve more deeply into how so much of what we all believe is really the same, just worded differently.
This is a thought-provoking and spirit-invoking book, an insightful synthesis and comparison of the Christian and Buddhist traditions.
Along the way, Thay (meaning "teacher," as the author is called reverently) manages to elucidate societal and spiritual principles of general benefit to us all.
Further, it is one of the few books that has so moved me that I intend to re-read it soon.In this spirit, I encourage others of myriad interests to check out this book.
If you're interested in Christian wisdom, benefit from the unique perspective of an interpretation by a Buddhist monk.
Do not read this book as a comparison of Christianity and Buddhism, but rather one man's spiritual journey.
He describes himself as a man with two roots (Buddhism and Christianity) but he is really a man who has grafted Christianity onto his Buddhist root.
And just in case you decide not to read it, let me leave you with this wonderful quote from the book:"One day as I was about to step on a dry leaf, I saw the leaf in the ultimate dimension.
I smiled at the leaf and said, 'You are pretending.' Everything is pretending to be born and pretending to die, including that leaf." ~Thich Nhat Hanh
As he says, no religion has the monopoly on truth.It was interesting to read about Christianity from a decidedly Buddhist viewpoint, and as such it was as enlightening and then sometimes as off-base as I expected.
I confess I read this book in part to gain a deeper understanding of the differences between the two religions (sorry, Hanh!).
As a Christian, I think we can take a lot from the Buddhist appreciation of mindfulness and physicality and agree with Thich Nhat Hanh that deeper, more compassionate examinations of seemingly opposing viewpoints can help us engender peace between people, groups, and nations.
It will be most beneficial to readers who have familiarity with both traditions and who are open to seeing the similarities between them, rather than just the differences.The Good - A fresh perspective on Christianity from a person of faith from another tradition.
All others stay away, for your own good.
Much of what Thich Nhat Hanh writes about the similarities existing between Christianity and Buddhism are insightful and interesting.
Finally, I like the fact that the author makes clear that ecumenism should encourage a deeper appreciation of one's own tradition and not the exclusive embrace of another.
My only problem with Hahn has to do with the fact that the great degree agreement he sees between Buddhism and Christianity is premised upon a very liberal theology that most day to day Christians would not embrace.
"When we look into the heart of a flower, we see clouds, sunshine, minerals, time, the earth, and everything else in the cosmos in it.
Without clouds, there could be no rain, and there would be no flower.
Without time, the flower could not bloom.
Interbeing is a new term, but I believe it will be in the dictionary soon because it is such an important word.
When we see the nature of interbeing, barriers between ourselves and others are dissolved, and peace, love, and understanding are possible.
Whenever there is understanding, compassion is born."
If you're looking for a buddhist monk to support your belief that faith in jesus christ is the only way to salvation, this book is not for you.
Buddha never said that you must believe in him in order to be saved from the pains of this world.
Nor do we know that Jesus said this.
Buddhism is not against Christianity but it is a great psychology to study and follow to make yourself wholly acceptable, even if you believe you must confess the name of Jesus, to yourself.If you want a book that attempts to divide people based on their religious or dogmatic beliefs look elsewhere.
There are many messages one can focus on when reading this book, but the ones that resonate with me were those of mindfulness, kindness and love.
I like that he observes that when people get caught up in the appearances and dogma of their religion instead of actually living their faith, it is when intolerance and hypocrisy start (my interpretation).
This is not a discourse on the differences and similarities between Buddhism and Catholicism, and I do not believe it was the author's intent.
It focuses on starting within and then living what it is you say you believe.
Those caught in the trappings of appearances may find his words hard to swallow.
The title of this book is a bit deceiving, though I was glad for it, being of the spiritual and not the formal religion type. Though Thich Naht Hahn does draw parallels between God and Buddha, he introduces the reader, through simple yet brilliant analogies, to the world and metaphysical existence as seen and experienced through a Buddhist mind. He does an excellent favor to us all by showing that the world and our place in it is much less complex than many formal religions would have us believe. This book simplifies the life journey. Highly recommended!
This one didn't resonate at all for me. Looking at some of the other reviews, it does seem like the book did more or less what it was aiming to do, which I guess was to make Buddhism seem less scary to Reagan-era satanic panic christians. I hope that's true. For me personally, I found it to be the weakest of his work that I've read, but I'm not exactly the target audience on this one so it's hardly a fair standard.
This little book is a bit "Buddhism 101 for the modern person" and part "spiritual similarities between Christianity and Buddhism." Thich Nhat Hanh, the Buddhist Vietnamese peace activist and teacher was allies with other peace and justice activists including Martin Luther King Jr. and Daniel Berrigan. He spent a lifetime teaching the principles of Buddhism to westerners to try to make a better world.There is still work to be done. The least you can do is read this book.
We are all cousins. Thich Nhat Hahn addresses the similarities between Buddhism and Christianity and the challenges we have to accept each other and to live as transcendent spiritual beings. I will be studying this book periodically, making new committments and checking my personal progress.I have recorded many quotes from the first half of the book, a little more. The rest of the book so challenges me that I would have to quote almost the entire text :-)I am grateful for this challenge.
