https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15564.Witches_Brew
On the plus side, I liked how this book really focused on the relationships between the different characters, focusing on things like the guilt Questor feels about transforming Abernathy, the struggle that Ben has about the Paladin, and the way Mistaya is able to connect to Questor.
I also really liked that Elizabeth was brought back for this book and they focused on how much Abernathy still cares for her.
I still find them enjoyable and it seemed a bit odd that they were the only ones not included.
Some of the motivations of the characters and how the magic is used also seemed a bit odd to me.
As much as I enjoy Terry Brooks and his easy to follow writing style, this book was a little underwhelming. It was a little more predictable than the average Brooks romp and the ending seemed quite rushed. Brooks has a wonderful imagination and I love the concept of Landover but this wasn't as good as previous installments. I have the final chapter of this series out from the library. Out of loyalty to this author and some of his other great work I will see this through to the end...sigh...2.5 stars
Mi è piaciuta anche questa avventura di Ben e company con protagoniste la figlia e la strega del crepuscolo,anche se la trama è prevedibile,la magia resta anche in questo capitolo.
Freakin awesome. Witches are Nasty... Dragons are Bad Ass!!! And Knights Rock. Anything else I say will give the story away...
Any sympathy I might have felt for Nightshade upon learning her story is canceled by the fact that she never redeems herself and her demise (if in fact she did..demise) was anti-climatic.
I would like to see some of the characters grow out of the limited roles the author has put them in.
Can Abernathy please stop being such a dog?
Can Nightshade be anything other than the stereotypical villain hell bent on revenge?
Princess of Landover will go on my to-read list more out of principle and loyalty to the author than from any desire to see what happens next.
I couldn't believe how disinterested I was in Ben and Willow's storyline.
I wanted to spend much more time with Nightshade and Mistaya or Abernathy, Quester, and Elizabeth.
Maybe that's because I feel like Willow and Ben have gone about as far as they can go as characters.
Mistaya, on the other hand, gets to hear Nightshade's history, though somewhat edited, and they develop a strange friendship that you know can only be doomed in the end.
I think that Terry Brooks has some real potential with his villains, but we spend so much time with the heroes of the story, who are fairly bland in comparison, that we hardly ever get the villains' perspective.
Another formulaic installment in Landover. Lines are drawn, allegiances are made more clear and resolution is found. I get the feeling that Mr. Brooks isn't really trying all that hard with this series. What bothered me most was the blatant time line problems between Earth and Landover. It wouldn't be bad if time progressed differently between the two worlds, but he explicitly said in The Black Unicorn that time in the two worlds progresses in tandem. I'm also confused as to why Mr. Brooks felt the need to introduce a new G'home Gnome rather than using Fillip and Sot again.
This was a fairly fun adventure. There was more tension in it than in the previous novels.Mistaya's character was interesting. There was a bit more development with Questor and Abernathy, although it was in another foray into Seattle for no real reason.I still don't understand how Ben is so stupid though. His daughter is kidnapped and since he hasn't heard from his mortal enemy in two years, obviously she could have nothing to do with it...
I liked it... but is anyone else beginning to feel like the Landover books are becoming cookie cutters of the first? I mean, how many times does Ben Holiday freaking have to find himself??? Does he just get lost that easily??? This book was a good attempt at breaking the 'Ben needs to find himself' cycle, but overall I was simply unimpressed.
Insomma, ancor più dell'ultima volta mi sentivo poco ispirata dalle premesse sulla trama, temevo che Terry Brooks avesse forzato un po' le cose per tirare fuori a tutti costi qualcosa per non far finire una saga che ormai poteva tranquillamente mettere la parola "the end" in modo definitivo.
Quando è successo mi sono poi resa conto che era proprio l'assuefazione dei quattro libri ad avere giocato un po' lo scherzo, e non erano solo la trama o il testo in sé ad essere in difetto: anche "la sfida di Landover" ha il suo lato coinvolgente, quello che fa accadere qualcosa d'inaspettato e ti pianta in testa il seme della curiosità.
Sometimes I really wish there was an opportunity to give half stars, because I probably would have given this a 4.5 if I could have.On the positive side the book felt like the stakes were a bit higher and the villain was a bit more menacing than in the previous books.
Landover has always been on the lighter side, serious but never too serious, this book is similar but I also felt like it had a bit more weight.
Together with having a more menacing villain, it gave the book overall a more serious tone, which I kind of liked.
A direct sequel to The Tangle Box, Witches' Brew tells the tale of Mistaya, the unique child of the human king Ben Holiday and the sylvan creature Willow, as she faces her first challenge; which may or may not involve the witch with a personal vendetta against the King, Nightshade.Landover is home to an assortment of magical and mythical creatures - kobolds, fairy creatures, gnomes, a dragon, and a witch; all of whom make guest appearances throughout the story.
While Brooks let's the reader in on the big mystery of the book very early on, King Ben Holiday is left unawares; which makes him often appear glaringly ignorant.
I read three or four ponderous Shanarra tomes, and even tried the first book in this series, and didn't really like any of them.
None of them were bad, but they were very formulaic, and really just plodded along in obvious directions, with most (actually for this book, it was all) of the conflicts being solved by deus ex machina rather through any cleverness.
This book was no different, but for some reason I found it pretty enjoyable for my long ride downstate.
As a reading book, this would have got one star and a place on the abandoned shelf, but I did enjoy the listening experience, even if, due to some tape malfunctions, I skipped a few sections.
The villain plot in this is pretty complex compared to earlier villain plots, and I like a few of the twists within it.
Some of the choices Questor and Abernathy make really got to me too.This book had a lot more focus on the emotions of the characters eg/ Questors guilt for transforming Abernathy, more Ben struggling with the paladin and their link and what it means, and I liked being abe to get a little more in their heads and hearts.There's plenty of rollicking adventure too with multiple champion style battles, and betrayals heaped on betrayals (unintended and intentional alike).
Though I really wish Willow would stop bringing up her love for Ben as being prophecy.
A nice return to Landover, but I’m starting to grow tired of the one dimensionlity of Nightshade. Added to that is the poor treatment of Abernathy. By now, his condition is no longer quaint, but should have been cured. I guess it’s time for the sixth and final book in this series...
It has been at least ten years since I read The Tangle Box, #4 in the Landover series. This story did not evoke the same sense of wonder that I vaguely recall from Magic Kingdom for Sale - Sold! and others in the series. I hope A Princess of Landover will be a fitting conclusion to the series. (Is it too much to hope that Elizabeth and Abernathy will get a happy ending?)
This has always been my least favorite Landover book. I find that when I read this novel, I don't develop a connection Mistaya until the last few chapters. Since the entire novel is about trying to recover her, it leaves me feeling rather ambivalent about the whole ordeal.
What a great story! cute, witty and exciting series.
A little disappointed in the ending, but a very good series. Really enjoyed it.
My favorite in the series so far.
Continues in the tradition of the others, a very good series.
I liked this one better than some of the others. I was uncertain about Mistaya at first, but she kind of grows on you. And Strabo is still best.
Witches' Brew by Terry Brooks, another good entry in the series.
I mainly read this just to catch the end of a series that I forgot about after the 80's. It's not going to win any awards, but it is fun and easy.
I just feel bad for Abernathy and Elizabeth.
The larger story arcs all came around to a close, and the series was decent reading. In the end, I think I liked all the bits about Questor Thews and Abernathy the best of all.
And most have been decent -- but not as good as the first one.In this one, Ben Holiday and Willow's daughter, Mistaya, is growing at an astounding rate.
So, someone comes to the castle and issues Ben a challenge for the kingdom of Landover.
Nightshade, the witch, is behind everything and steals Mistaya to train her to become a witch -- and to unwittingly kill her father.In the last book, I complained that Ben seemed pretty dense, which was odd considering that he had been a high priced, successful attorney in Chicago and was now king of the land.
In this book, he's just as dense and so is Willow.
Instead Mistaya is abducted by Nightshade after she banishes Questor and Abernathy to Ben's old world.This is the fifth of six books in The Magic Kingdom of Landover Series.
This book is written in the third person narrative from the various characters' point of view.This is a fun book to read with the introduction of Ben's daughter; Mistaya, I think she is an interesting and unique character.
There were several frightening and exciting scenes when Ben was forced to face the numerous challengers.This is a standalone story, it takes place two years after the end of The Tangle Box and is a very good read.
Was it simply a case of wanting the daughter to play a stronger part in her father's destruction, or was she truly stronger than her host, and more capable of the creations?The final part of the plan, though appropriately ironic, seemed something of a letdown.
After all the play it was given, I had expected something more dramatic (though the result was appropriately so).
Must look.) To be sure, there's room to tell the tale of the maturation and adventures of the princess, but the most obvious loose end came with Elizabeth; the difference in times and the 'I'll wait for you' suggest the pair will meet again.Another great read!
There's only one book left, The Princess of Landover, which I will read next to find out the end.It's no surprise that Nightshade came back to reek havoc in this book, it was outright stated this would be the case in Tangle Box. It was bit frustrating that the main characters didn't see this til the end, but their denseness was more understandable.
I have high hopes since she's received great treatment of this book but it wouldn't be a first time a female character fell short or to the wayside to fit in the narrow confines of fantasy trope.
Still lots of tropes and predictability, but it is indeed a more enjoying light summer read for the fantasy genre.
