https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/831660.Free_Air
As a reader, from the first page I felt like I too was driving a vintage car — one from 1919, when the novel was set, and tackling the winding and rough roads on the way to Seattle.
I could feel the needs of the characters and their confusion when it came to following their dreams — the uncertainty regarding how they will attain their goals, or rather, if they can attain them.It was also interesting to get a glimpse of how people at the time would have felt about driving a car.
The author had a gift for seeing different complexities within humans, and I feel that this novel is a love story with a “finding yourself” theme.
Sinclair Lewis did something very similar at the end of each segment of his 1917 serial Free Air by inserting an abrupt meeting between one of his two protagonists and the person he or she least wants to see.
The first 150 pages or so of the novel version, published two years later, are so clever and charming that it's a real letdown when these seams begin to show.Lewis was a master of place-setting, and his descriptions of the back roads between Chicago and Seattle are often first-rate.
Written in 1919, this is the story of Claire Boltwood - NY socialite on a road trip with her wealthy businessman father from Minnesota to Seattle.
Perhaps their biggest realization is the beauty of Americans that wouldn't fit neatly in their social circles.
Along the way, Claire picks up an admirer in small-town mechanic Milt Dagwood.
I would say that his style is typical of his era, reminiscent of Fitzgerald, but with more small town charm in it.
There is lots of vasilating in this story for both Claire and Milt.
A mildly amusing drive West, escaping the stuck up East Coast, discovering freedom & equality.
After reading it, I wondered how the author would manage to write books that came later that would be classics of American literature and win for him a Nobel Prize for literature.
Lewis used this book as a way of putting down the class distinctions that existed in this country.
You can read this book as if you had encountered some literary piffle, or as a trial book for Lewis to get his feet wet about the separation of classes.
Milt takes a liking to Claire and decides to make a road trip himself and follow her.
But Claire's wealthy suitor from New York and her wealthy friends on Queen Ann Hill don't see what endears Milt to her.The question is, can a wealthy society girl and a boy from a small town in the midwest with no appreciable education make a go of it?The book held particular interest for me and it will for the rest of the 22nd Avenue Book Club here in Spokane because so much of the action takes place in Washington.
Like Huck and Jim on their raft, Claire and Milt represent the great American ideal--freedom, equality, and a sense of adventure.
What begins as a screwball comedy adventure story (this would have made a glorious 1930s comedy) turns into a portrait of class fears: falling in class, not living up one's class, being reminded of a lower class upbringing, etc.While we begin to see the scathing Lewis of the 20s emerge in the jokes and wry comments scattered throughout the text ("Isn't it delightful that this is such a democratic country, with no castes," said Claire.), the novel has a happy, hopeful, perhaps even sappy ending.
If you can get over the condescending, cynical tone of the narrator, book stands our for a couple of reasons - it describes a cross-country car trip at the dawn of the motor age, and again has a female character as the main character. I thought the romance with the man from the middle west was contrived, and the way he kept popping up in the narrative was fairly absurd. Dated, but interesting for being dated, giving a picture of America during and after WWI. Other characters were poorly developed.
I really enjoyed this book about a strong woman who is determined to prove that she can survive and thrive in the harsh "man's world" that is interstate motor travel in the 1920s. Her quirk and spunk are delightful, and the other colorful characters that pepper this novel make for a very fun read.
New York socialite Claire takes a road trip from Minnesota to Seattle. While considered a lesser novel by the Nobel Prize winner it introduces many themes that will be further developed in his later work.
Novela ligera, pero que critica los convencionalismos sociales en USA, previos a la II Guerra Mundial. Así como, al machismo imperante, con una personaje femenina bastante feminista para su época. Y como no podía faltar, un happy end digno de película de Hollywood.
Good short read. Story about breaking barriers and social norms
Such a great book. Love to hear all the familiar place names along the way. Nice juxtaposition of the upper and lower class. Fun ending.
Oh, what a great story. A love story. I am in love with Sinclair Lewis.
An absolute delight. I won't give it away, but it is just a light-hearted romp taking place in the early 1900s.
It’s a book about appearances and real wisdom and courage, classes and spaces, travel and discovery. Full of invaluable emotional observations and notes.
I can't remember the last book I read that made me smile and laugh so often. Lewis' prose is so fluid and so full of life and character. Free Air has instantly become one of my favorite love stories, and hopefully the start of a great literary romance with Lewis' works.A special thank you to Steven Michels' essay on Public Domain Review, "American Freedom: Sinclair Lewis and the Open Road," for introducing me to the book and linking me to a PDF of the original printing.
They seem to grow and mature as the novel progresses, which endears them to the reader.Claire is a bit of a feminist before such portrayals of women were commonplace.
She would have come off as more of a brave heroine had she not taken her father with her, but the reader grows used to that and even somewhat fond of the father-daughter relationship.Dagget seems a bit more hackneyed in the beginning of the novel.
The story may change speeds once the journey cross-country ends in Seattle, but there is new drama to be explored there.Though I wouldn't recommend it for those new to Sinclair Lewis, it is definitely worth checking out for anyone who is more familiar with his other, later works.
Instead, one could say that it is a boy-meets-girl story thrust into a class consciousness that, when narrated by Lewis, should probably be spelled, “R-E-V-E-R-S-E –D-I-S-C-R-I-M-I-N-A-T-I-O-N.” Lewis, like another author I favor (Upton Sinclair), is a champion of the lower class.
Unfortunately for Free Air, there are a few times these sentiments seemed heavy-handed if not unjust.But I don’t read Lewis merely for his politics and sociological observations (though they have, without doubt, contributed to my understanding of the eras of which he writes); I read him for intriguing prose and an overall story.
265)There weren’t a lot of profound lines, but there was one bit of conversation I really liked.
The high part revealing the lofty and romantic language he uses throughout the novel (taken from the upper class); the fast part is revealed in long run-on sentences that the characters speak and seems to work particularly well in this time period.Before I continue with my review of Free Air, I want to note that in 1930 Lewis won the Nobel Prize for literature and as a prize recipient, was required to write a short autobiography on his career so far.
I had never thought of what the highways across America would have been like at their beginning, when the idea of a cross-country car trip was completely novel and daring.
And what did Glacier Mountain Park look like back in 1919 anyway?
It was interesting more by contrast with another road trip book I accidentally happen to be reading simultaneously (having no reading plan causes some collisions) - in which the attitude towards the role of women is completely opposite.
America, and I do like a book that makes me think.
I was pretty disappointed in Main Street for a few reasons, but I liked his plot line in Free Air. For me, it was really fun reading the first book based upon an American road trip.
Also, the book felt like a quirky classic film.
The modern woman, Claire, was described as a Katherine Hepburn type, but I thought it needed someone quirkier such as Jean Arthur.
I know there were many good fatherly-type actors from classic films, but Menjou had one of my favorite lines.
For Claire's suitor from the east, I think you need someone milquetoast like Ralph Bellamy from His Girl Friday.
So when Claire gets her monstrously expensive car stuck in a muddy pothole and pulled out by the town's handsome mechanic, you have a fairly classic setup for a meet cute.This story is Titanic on land.
and Like Titanic, you get to meet up with Claire's milieu several times to get a sense of how insufferable they really are and how gladdened the reader should be by Milt's doggedness to rescue Claire from a life of thoughtless luxury.I liked the road trip half of the book far more than the second half that takes place when the two land in Seattle.
I love old pulp, especially when it's a wild journey, and this road trip book was a fun and exciting read.
I went through a bunch of public domain kindle books just browsing, and I figured I would read a page or two of each to see what caught my attention.
This book caught me on the first page.
I love the time period it's set in, and Lewis paints an excellent picture without focusing too much on the details.
What I liked best about the book was the characters.
Going to find a paper edition of this book and read it again.
From the man who brought us The Job and Elmer Gantry as well as Main Street and Babbit comes a hilarious romantic romp!
This isn't up there with his other books, but that does not mean that Free Air doesn't have anything to say.
In a book that deals with moving up in class and down in class and sideways in class, the most poignant and telling scene in the entire book is when Milt's small-town friend (view spoiler)[Bill leaves:"Good-by old hoss.
You're best friend I ever had and--Good luck, old man!
(hide spoiler)]As I said, this isn't Elmer Gantry stuff, but it will do.
Propelled me into Babbitt which is really wonderful, so far full stop.Edit: I was reminded by Milt in Free Air of a book I read in uni, which took a bit of digging round to find again: Jack London's Martin Eden, which is about a rough fellow's progress towards the light (after meeting a girl, of course) and what it does to him.
Free Air is a much lighter treatment of the basically same thing (plus the travelogue).
Must read Martin Eden again though as images in it have stayed with me for 20 years.
I like Sinclair Lewis and have read most of his books, but hadn't heard of this one until Amazon offered it to me as a freebie.
The plot is meandering and lacks the satirical bite of Lewis's better-known novels.The hero is a smart country boy who falls in love at first sight with an aristocratic girl who is driving her father from New York to Seattle as part of a "rest cure." The hero essentially stalks the heroine, following her big car with his little one, and spying on her with binoculars.
It seemed more like watered-down Edna Ferber than like Lewis.
I just wanted to say that the reason I read this book was because of Jimmy Darmody from Boardwalk Empire.
I was binge-watching Boardwalk Empire last month and I grew attached to Jimmy; his character liked reading books and one of the books he read was this, Free Air. I absolutely loved the road tripping section of the book which was the first part and the emphasis on Claire and Milt's clashes because of their different social standpoints and upbringings.
I didn't like the love story bit, and I never actually FINISHED THE NOVEL.
I know Jimmy Darmody would be disappointed but what can you do?
It's no Main Street or Babbit but this work just before Lewis achieved international acclaim and a Nobel prize is light and fun.
It has aged pretty well for a light adventure/romance of its day, especially if you like the era the book was written and set in (both 1910s).
I probably got the most enjoyment from the setting of a 1910s western road trip and then life in Seattle of the era.
Some of Lewis' later brilliant prose does shine through from time to time, but overall the book is quick and maybe even forgettable - pure, fun, entertainment.
A cute light love story.When the windshield was closed it became so filmed with rain that Claire fancied she was piloting a drowned car in dim spaces under the sea.
Back yonder a truck had tried to crowd her, and she had dropped into a ditch, climbed a bank, returned to the road, and after that the truck was not.
Now she was regarding a view more splendid than mountains above a garden by the sea 14a stretch of good road.
To her passenger, her father, Claire chanted: "Heavenly!
You're doing very well," her father sighed.
