https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12216.Three_Plays
It is not a bad play, to be clear -- O'Neill writes flawed not bad plays, such is his talent -- but it is the one most forced in its construction to drive to a tragic conclusion.
It too is very twisted and very effective in the way the flaws of the male and female characters drive them to a bizarre interdependence.
All of these plays are worth reading because O'Neill is a great writer, but they are not the apotheosis of his works, though one can definitely see the themes that emerge throughout his work.
Out of largesse, 3-stars.
Life is a "pipe dream," eh, and "dere's dat ol debbil sea." O, shut the fuk up, Gene.
He yanked American drama away fr mawkish mellerdramer, and introduced sex & neurosis (on an adult level), bolstered by his knowledge of Freud, Jung and himself.
Today he's unreadable and almost unplayable.
I'm glad bio-writers keep his name flickering, I guess, but the only work that holds up is "Long Day's etc." Despite an interesting Life, his "theatre" of the psychic and subconscious is : dated.
Looking back over 100 years of American drama, there's - frankly - not much.
Strange Interlude is very good, but Desire Under the Elms and Mourning Becomes Electra are both masterpieces. O'Neill's just a genius when it comes to displaying his characters' souls, and whether what we see is revolting or noble, there is an underlying sympathy for just about every character that he pens in the two plays.
There is, thankfully, one great play here, and it is a play where the author is inspired to write from his own New England Yankee tradition as well as reach towards the greatness of the Greek Orestia trilogy in making a classic tragedy of his own that works particularly well.
"Strange Interlude" is ambitious in seeking to convey fragmentary feelings and thoughts of characters which are often in conflict with what they are saying, but this was an experiment that did not work very well and the result is nowhere near as dramatically convincing as Shakespeare's use of interior monologues, for example, which are much more elevated and dignified than the panicky thoughts and fragmentary statements included in this strange play.
It makes all of his other plays look almost quaint by comparison, and yet he could do it only once, so he got all he could from the idea to expose sexually inadquate mousy men courting a ferocious woman laughingly upset by the weakness of her suitors longing for a man willing to die for a cause, a real man, and so many in between people, but what makes it really devastating is that it's not a series of soliloquies on loneliness or valor, but rather the soliloquies come in direct reference to the dialogue, so that you see everyone's mask then their real person inside and what they are thinking, however brutal, beautiful, kind, forgiving, or sad, to the person they are talking to, though their thoughts belie the conversation, and the way the two weave is incredible, not to mention the play goes on forever.
O'Neill's genius is adapting Greek Tragedy in such a way that his own plays are different -- he doesn't hold strict adherence to plot points, sometimes strays from themes or combines them -- but the powerful, indeed holy essence crafted centuries ago by those master playwrights is preserved and if not expanded upon, at least done worthy justice.
At their best, O'Neill's adaptations have clarified their Greek predecessors in ways countless re-readings of the originals hardly could.
Furthermore, given the subject matter of such tragedies -- filial duty, fate, love, sex, death -- O'Neill via the Greeks have helped me to better understand myself.
They seem to be unable to act independently but are driven by the psychological-genetic compulsions which compel them to behave as they do.
I found the plays extremely dark but pretty compelling reading.
There is an all-pervasive gloom to the plays which I read.
I can easily imagine that these plays would flourish in "totalitarian" societies whether NS Germany or Soviet Russia, because the characters are not so much unrpedictable individuals acting on quirks or sudden impusles good or bad, they are rather expressions of the conseuqences of genetical inheritance or past experience.
O'Neill was actively channeling Greek Drama when he churned out these plays, which explains why they're so monumental and deliberate (the unkind would say occasionally stilted), and laced with sins and expiations greater than most mortal lives can contain.
Unless showrunners trimmed the thing by removing all the dialogue asides, sitting through that must have felt like sitting through Les Miserables...twice.Still, you have to give O'Neill credit for having the stones to tackle a complete re-working of Aeschylus's Orestia and create the intermittently fabulous Mourning Becomes Electra, which was easily the highlight of the three plays collected here.
For me it was coarse and dark, and none of the characters were really likable (although perhaps that was the point?).
There also didn't seem to be a whole lot of true, believable character development.Overall, just not my taste, but I still might try to read the others in the volume.Update on April 30, 2011:Four stars for Strange InterludeIn contrast to DUtE, Strange Interlude was more engaging and believable (albeit disturbingly so).
The strength of this work is O'Neill's use of stream of consciousness, or, I suppose in drama terminology, the asides.
Re. Strange Interlude: this was the first O'Neill I'd read in more than 30 years - I'd read most of the major plays back in the day - and this was in fact a rereading.
Controversial at the time, and O'Neill's most successful Broadway production, we have to wonder now whether that was all titillation at the overt sexuality of the drama, the frankness of which still startles.
The colloquial language of smart Northeasterners holds up extremely well, Nina remains powerfully drawn and realized as a character and - having aged 25 years in the course of the play, has, depending on your point of view, either changed or not.
I read it for a university course about "American Drama".With a lot of references and similarities to Greek Mythology O'Neill wrote a family-drama taking place at the end of the Civil War in New England.
His daughter, who always hated her mother and doted on her father, persuades her brother to take revenge and kill the lover of their mother.
After this is accomplished the mother kills herself out of grief over her loss...But the brother cannot cope with what he has done and that he drove his own very much beloved mother to death.
Only surviving member of the family is now the daughter, representing Elektra from Greek Mythology, who is now unhappy and lonely.
I read Desire Under the Elms for my dissertation.
It's definitely a unique Hippolytus adaptation, but for me it didn't live up to the complexity of a play like Long Day's Journey into Night.
Maybe it was tough to really get into this play because it is written in dialect--what sounds to me like a southern drawl, rather than a Connecticut dialect, but we can put that issue aside.
And there are a lot of complex issues going on in this play, issues about rights, the nature of God, sons usurping fathers, and so on.
But I just didn't enjoy Desire as much as I did Long Day's Journey.
I read Desire Under the Elms and Mourning Becomes Elektra.
I was so disturbed by the latter that I can't get myself to read Strange Interlude.
I probably won't ever read it without the pressure of academic supervision.
O'Neill is a richly skilled writer, but he is dark and humorless.
Martin McDonagh, another dark playwright, writes about similarly tragic people and families, but adds a comic undertone that makes them entertaining.
Mourning Becomes Elektra I read over the course of two days, and even then I found it exhausting.
Eugene O'Neill just isn't my cup of tea.
This one took me a while.
A long while.
A long long long while.
Desire Under The Elms is good, but I can barely remember what it is about.
Strange Interlude took me 3 months to read.
Maybe more.
However, when I finally finished it, I was amazed by the play.
It has a great pay off...
Though I do think it is too long, even though the length is necessary for the ending.
Mourning Becomes Electra is the quickest read, mostly because (in contrast to Interlude) there is so much action going on.
It's not as good as Strange Interlude though.
So much darker than I imagined. Passions, greed, murder, jealousy are ripe throughout the plays. The amazing aspect is that though they are period pieces, they seem wholly capable of being presented today and speaking to modern audiences. The strongest of the plays in my opinion was Strange Interlude, with Mourning Becomes Electra the weakest of the three. The version I read went above and beyond the classical stage directions, almost as if the play was purposefully novelized, which made it much richer and easier to imagine.
Desire Under the Elms is a play about very simple people tossed into a very complex situation. But in there ignorance you get a very emotional look into such great problems as opposed to a logical approach. So in essence these people seem much more human and relatable. The language is very hard to get past because the author really nails the southern slang but makes it difficult to read quickly and burn through it.
Very interesting plays, well written, although I found myself put off by some of the characters. Eugene O'Neill certainly gets to the core of human beings, but I do find myself thinking that, although his depiction is probably very accurate, I do not care for human beings as he depicts them.Three different plays, three very different kinds of love, all three... shudderworthy. Lots of food for thought.
O'Neill channels Greek Oedipal tragedies strongly in this collection. Characters feel quite two dimensional - but that's precisely the point; the tragedies and deaths that unfold in each work are set in motion at the beginning, and each player must play their role to bring about ordained retribution. I've read Desire Under the Elms several times, but I find Mourning Becomes Electra a better exposition of a dysfunctional, vindictive, and jealous family.
I only read one play from this collection, Desire Under The Elms. However, it was fantastic. It is a wonderful play about the culture of New Endlang, and the time frame that it was in. It showed how dark New England can be, and the effects of marrying down. There were many twists in the play, and then some that were predictable. It's a show that makes you want to jump off a cliff, so keep yourself away from sharp objects once you get to the last act.
These are crazy plays, with Greek tragedy underpinnings--Oedipus Rex, anyone? Interesting, but a little too much for me. Strange Interlude was, well, strange. I kept thinking, "How would this really work on a stage?" More than half of the dialogue was the character's thoughts. Mourning Becomes Electra was probably the best of the three, but still a lot of weirdness to it.
These plays could be good if they were edited down or rewritten to make them more palatable to a contemporary audience, but as they're published here they're terrible. After reading these plays I can't help but think of O'Neill as a misogynist and that's a bit of a bummer.
am planning on seeing the broadway production of "desire under the elms" with a co-worker. The story is tragic, but the vernacular of the characters is fun and quick -despite the darkness of the storyline
Immensely psychological, great language, meant to be read as much as produced, it seems.
Can never get enough of O'Neill. Will read again in another year or two
AP Senior English.
I absolutely adore Mourning Becomes Electra!
I had to read these for a school course, and while the writing is good and complex I hate the characters. I hate who they are as people, and I hope to never read this again.
Eugene O'Neill has a crazy way of creating real-life characters doing strange stuff -- and I agree with it. If you like reading plays, I recommend reading one of his. llw
Mourning Becomes Electra is outstanding, but then again, everything O'neil wrote is a classic.
Inspired by Goodman's amazing O'Neill festival this winter...
