https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/967553.Beethoven
My favorite non-fiction book ever. A book like this could never get published these days. It is too full of sweeping generalizations unsupported by research, and long speculative digressions on subjects about which the author is not any kind of expert. Part biography, part musicophilia, part philosophical rambling, part spiritual journey, part cultural anthropology. And the prose is so beautiful that you are convinced it must also contain correct information. Thank you Daniel. And Daniel's grandmother.
I loved this book as I have recently discovered classical music.
In particular I have enjoyed Beethoven's Late String Quartets, to which a large percentage of this work is dedicated.
It focuses on the nature of art, genius, science and philosophy.
But more than anything it discusses Beethoven's emotionally rich and complex music in the framework of spiritual development/growth.
It does NOT require any deep understanding of music theory, composition etc.
In fact, those well versed in those areas may be disappointed in the lack of technical analysis.
It's a quick read and I recommend listening to the referenced pieces/movements as you move through the chapters.

This was a fascinating book.
Insights are given into different pieces of music and, whether you agree with him or not, it is a fascinating journey.
I would have taken issue with some things if I'd been having a discussion with him.
For instance he says that string quartets are the 'most sincere' forms of expression and opera the least.
As an opera lover I feel that for me it touches the heart in the very deepest place, and therefore, at its best must be totally sincere.
Maybe it just belongs to OTT people like me.

Despiser of persons.Lover of Humanity
Simply the best book ever on Beethoven. Packed with brilliant insights touched with great warmth and humanity.
Sullivan rarely assumes musical knowledge or expertise on the part of the reader but discusses Beethoven's major works in terms of what they mean to us and how they reflect the composer's deepening understanding of existence in response to the crises in his life.Inevitably the book shows its age here and there: Sullivan tends to see humanity as evolving towards some higher ideal; and there's a Victorian whiff to his chiding Wagner for depicting eroticism.
Juxtaposing his interpretations of the music with accounts of the main events in Beethoven's life, Sullivan convincingly argues the case for a composer of intense tragic power, "more than Bacchic" joy, and intense and elusive spirituality.* Vintage paperback, still available
As consumers we tend to forget that what we enjoy comes from the suffering of others.
By this I don't just mean that dirt poor wages in Latin America give us cheap bananas, but the finer things come at a cost, too, in this case the music of Beethoven.
As a consumer you listen to the music, love it, and yet don't have to live through the pain that aroused it in the first place.
Listening costs you nothing.
There's a good pain in great music.
~St. AugustineP.S. The book was good, too dependent on the author's interpretations and a bit outdated, but still full of insights into the man and his music.

Insightful perspective of Beethoven's inner life, but was based rather much on speculation for my taste, and the author's bias came out pretty strong, though I agree that Beethoven is a magnificent composer, it isn't necessary to repeat "a composer of Beethoven's scale" so often. I did like the emphasis on Beethoven's struggles and how his music transformed in relationship to them.
Very entertaining insight into the mind of Beethoven. The author uses many primary sources, including Beethoven's letters; however, much of the book is purely speculative. I found the first third of the book, very dense and not as enjoyable. This book is for die hard fans of Beethoven, but probably not the average music fan.
I don't know why I found this so compelling, but I did. It's all speculative of course, but tracing someone's spirituality through their music is an interesting concept and a new one to a non-musical person like me.
This reads like an esoteric doctoral thesis. I found it unreadable, and I even like esoteric stuff!
a good study of the language of music for a "wannabee musician" :)
Difficult, but worth the effort.
Spoiled by some nutter pencilling tick marks all down either margin - why?? Why mark a library book anyway? Dickhead.
Faboulous, insightful book.
Dare to fight for what you beleive in....ofcourse he was much more than what we're trying to know
