https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/287861.Mortal_Engines
People have raised the cities from the ground, retrofitting them with rolling tracks and steaming engines to prowl the wastes in search of smaller cities to devour for scrap.
The mining town saw the danger and turned tail, but already the huge caterpillar tracks under London were starting to roll faster and faster.
Enter fifteen-year-old Tom, Third Class Apprentice to the Guild of Historians, who daydreams of rescuing pretty girls from air pirates.
Tom could really use a little adventure in his life.
Cue the mysterious girl with a terrible scar running down her face whose chance encounter with Tom leads to far more adventure than he bargained for.
My re-read would therefore re-categorise it to closer to 4 or 4.5 stars in the light of the fact that I did not find it as engaging as reading it for the first time, and I hold to the notion that a book must be as fine the second time as it is the first.The novel is an apocalyptic YA fiction work, set far into the future where, as described in my original review: cities roam around as mobile vehicles which chase and 'eat' other cities for resources.
Well, I guess we look at things differently when we're kids.And yet - I know a lot of kids books that have brilliant writing, good story-building and don't need to be dumbed down.Let me just put it in the form of a nice list.
Sure felt like it.There was one more point, and to be honest, I am having trouble figuring out if it should go with the good or the bad things.
More like a book that really wanted to be a movie, but couldn't.
But I still feel that kids' books CAN and should be better than that.
You can make it a kids book without writing it poorly.Sometimes I wonder if maybe I should write a book someday too.
Our protagonist is just poor boy, nobody loves him, who lives in one such city but his lives but after he stops one of towns officials being assassinated by mutilated girl things go badly for him as bunch of city's dirty secrets come to light and soon he finds himself out of town he knew all his life and on dangerous adventure with above mentioned girl in old fantasy style full of interesting places, people and well written banter.Overall 4.4 stars.
I'm not mindblown but this was extremely fun and well written adventure in interesting setting.

So I'll stop listing things here.I would recommend this book to young readers and anyone looking forward to seeing the movie adaptation.
I could imagine everything this book threw at me, everything but cities running around on traction.Apparently not being able to buy into this one thing unravels the whole book because I found the rest of the story hard to take in while I tried to work out how London was racing across the world, gulping down other cities.I went through the same thing with 
The ideas introduced--bone towers and flying contraptions--were really interesting, but the ways in which they were incorporated into the story and dystopian setting didn't make much sense to me, and that took me right out of the world the author tried so hard to create.
Una historia que tenía mucho potencial y que se ha quedado en nada...Sin duda me moría por leer este libro, y más acercándose la salida de la adaptación cinematográfica, pero hubiera sido mejor ver solo la película y no atravesar el sufrimiento que me hecho pasar este libro.
Con este tipo de narrativa solo podían salir unos personajes insoportables, egoístas y que sufren durante la novela una involución (para mi gusto).
Normalmente abandono este tipo de lecturas que estoy disfrutando tan poco, pero quería ver si mejoraba, pensad que tenía muchas ganas de leerlo y de ver la película, así que eso era lo único que me motivaba.
Imagine a society where hungry cities roam, searching for prey.
Imagine these huge cities, shaped like giant steel tiered wedding cakes rumbling around the countryside gobbling up smaller towns and settlements.
Tom lost his parents a few years ago in the Great Tilt (which is never explained in the book.
Hester Shaw is truly an interesting character.
Tom and Hester are thrown off the city, captured by pirates, rescued by an airship captain, chased by a resurrected man and more.
By the way, I handed my 11 year old this book and he was also hooked - he loves it!
Originally Posted on Guy Gone GeekWith the dystopian boom the market is now seeing, it’s kind of hard to find a true dystopian novel.
Tom has to choose a side and act fast before history repeats itself and the civilization he know meets its doom.One of the most notable things about Mortal Engines is Philip Reeve’s finesse on tying together pacing and world-building, something we don’t get to see too often.
The amount of thought he gave into realizing his imagined world, weaving plot points, creating tension and drawing complex characters makes this novel worth-reading.
I especially liked how Reeve initially juxtaposes the beautiful, "High London" girl Kate, who is oblivious to the oppression that keeps her world afloat, with a physically and mentally scarred Hester, who is bent on revenge: rather than use the beauty as a foil to show the inner beauty of the Hester, both are mixed characters and watching their personal growth was one of the most satisfying parts of the book.
However, the writing style is a little exposition heavy at times when it comes to the characters feelings and motivations, but becomes less obtrusive as the plot progresses.
Then there’s the compromised environment, still not recovered after some unnamed number of centuries after the Sixty Minute War. Now that’s a chilling name.And I haven’t even gotten to the characters Tom Natsworthy, Hester Shaw and Katherine.
I can’t say I ever really liked or cared about Tom, while the girls were much more interesting.
And I liked Anna Fang, aviatrix and spy, with a great name for her airship, Jenny Haniver.So, a fascinating set of ideas, some interesting characters, and a gruesome future where people commit terrible acts to keep their cities fueled and fed.
El término "Darwinismo municipal" es de lo mejor que he leído en mucho tiempo. La idea de que las ciudades se mueven y se coman unas a otras puede dar lugar a mil historias y aquí el autor nos cuenta una trama muy entretenida pero muy cercana al Young Adult. Personajes y situaciones bien construidas pero bastante simples en el fondo. Pero me ha encantado, a veces lo único que necesitas es que te entretenga y esto lo consigue.Además, lo he escuchado en audiolibro y el narrador, Raúl Llorens, lo hace especialmente bien.
I dare say she is my favourite character because she is not the damsel in distress; instead, she is cunning, smart, resourceful, and deadly.Through Tom and Hester’s adventure, we get a glimpse of the main elements of the story as they travel together through the Out-Country on foot; evading a Resurrected Man built with ancient technology that is trying to kill them, and rushing to save the world’s largest static settlement, Shan Guo, from its total destruction by a deadly weapon (Medusa), created by the London engineers.
And yes, the story is actually really good, but the writing isn't.
Is like having a great idea but not executing it properly.
I also liked Kate and her story.
Actually, her story was the most interesting one.
As a character, Kate was sweet, perky and the kind of girl who takes things in her hands and works to achieve what she wants.
I liked her even better than Hester, as Hester's character was kind of a dull one.
Other than that she was just acting like a bully from time to time, but didn't show any real character or personality.
Which is the best kind of subtle, show-don't-tell way of worldbuilding.I love the landscape of the Hungry City Chronicles (I'm definitely going to devour the rest of the series), and think it would pair well with The Half-Made World & the computer game 80 Days -- what with the former's dusty landscapes ground down under massive holy Engines, and the latter's retropunk technology and flying cities.It's fun.
“It’s one of my best legs.”***He smiled faintly, like somebody who had never seen a smile but had read a book on how to do it.***“Is it … dead?” asked Tom, his voice all quivery with fright.“A town just ran over him,” said Hester.
RTC
Mal posso esperar para ver o filme porque tenho a certeza que foi visualizar tudo muito melhor. Um livro que fala de um possível futuro onde há engenhos mortíferos tudo com base em tecnologia.
I quite enjoyed this book. It has everything that YA genre enjoy - adventure, love mystery. It’s certainly a book adults would enjoy. The suspense kinda builds throughout the story until,the final climax and that was done well. I might consider reading the rest of the series.
Za knjigu sam cuo i ranije ali kada sam saznao da ce Piter Dzekson da producira film plus trejler koji sam video me je odma zainteresovalo za ovaj serijal tako da sam morao da bacim pogled na nju :)Prica ima stvarno unikatni setting; daleka buducnost, posle nuklearnog rata ljudi su presli da zive na pokretnim gradovima di veci jedu manje radi prezivljavanja.
Za deciju knjigu ima teskih tema tako da treba povesti racuna.Samo pisanje je OK, dovoljno dobro da fino prikaze ovaj svet ia da drzi paznju kroz ceo tekst al ne ocekujte neku preteranu prozu ili recenice koje ce vas naterati na razmisljanje.
Tolle Ideen und interessante Charaktere, aber insgesamt wars mir etwas zu oberflächlich ...Mir war vor dem Lesen zum Glück bewusst, dass es sich um ein Kinder/Jugendbuch handelt - das merkt man dann doch recht schnell an den Protagonisten und auf die Logik sollte man im Detail auch nicht allzu sehr achten.
Insgesamt war es aber spannend aufgebaut und vor allem die Ideen sind sehr originell!"Es war ein dunkler, böiger Nachmittag im Frühling, und im ausgetrockneten Bett der Nordsee eröffnete London die Jagd auf eine kleine Schürferstadt." Erster SatzIch finde das ist ein super Einstieg, bei dem man schon sehr gutes Gefühl für das Szenario bekommt.
Başla bir deyişle, büyük şehirler varlıklarını sürdürebilmek ve kaynak elde edebilmek için küçük kentleri yutmakta ve sadece en güçlü olan hayatta kalmaktadır.Ama bu “yürüyen kentler” fikrine herkes sıcak bakmaz.
Himalaya Dağları’nın sarp yamaçlarının arkasına sığınan bu insanlar yerleşik hayatın son temsilcileri ve mobil kentlerin en büyük düşmanıdır.Kitabımız işte böyle ortamda, Londra’nın küçük bir maden kasabasını yutmak için tam gaz yola koyulmasıyla başlıyor.
Yine de bu durum Londra’nın son avını izlemek için amirlerine fark ettirmeden müzeden sıvışmasına engel olamıyor elbette.
Çünkü Londralıların geri kalanı gibi o da şehrine hayran ve mobillik karşıtı olan herkesi barbar olarak görüyor.
Außerdem schreibt Philip Reeve sehr eindrücklich, sodass man gleich ein Bild zu allem im Kopf hat und es das Buch war die passende Unterhaltung für ein graues Wochenende, weil es mitreißend und turbulent ist mit vielen Ideen und den unterschiedlichsten Personen!Zwischen Steampunk und Fantasy hat sich der Autor so einige unglaubliche Dinge einfallen lassen, sodass man sich nicht leicht losreisen kann von Mortal Engines.
Doch bei der Stadt allein bleibt es nicht, Tom wird der neue Begleiter von Hester Shaw, nicht gerade zu ihrer Freude, und die beiden haben einen langen und sehr turbulenten Weg vor sich, der Luftschiffpiraten, Kopfgeldjäger, Rettungsversuche und ein unheimliches Wesen aus Metall beinhaltet.
I AM IN LOVE WITH THIS BOOK.
I've rated less than 10 books five stars, ever.
These are the books I absolutely love; I'm completely blind to their flaws and will sit there and worship them.
The characters themselves are works of art, particularly the female ones.Excuse me while I fangirl.So first of all there's Katherine Valentine.
(Yes, there is a love interest, and he's adorable.) She is one of the very few strong female characters in YA literature.Then, there's Hester Shaw.
She's the most badass character you will ever meet.
Her character development is totally fascinating.
Go read this book.
Go fall in love like I did.
Realmente espero que en las próximas entregas el autor de más detalles sobre el contexto y el mundo en el que se desarrolla la saga.Los protagonistas, Tom y Hester, destacan enormemente por su evolución en el transcurso del libro.
Tom es un joven del gremio de historiadores que vive feliz y encandilado en Londres, es un chico bobalicón y temeroso que sólo quiere destacar y gustar a los que le rodean, pero todo cambia cuando Hester se cuela en Londres y trata de matar a Valentine, el hombre más famoso de la ciudad.
Ich fand die Welt super spannend und bei der rasanten Handlung ist auch reichlich Action dabei. Die Charaktere sind trotz ihres jungen Alters nicht zu stereotypisch gewählt und haben mir auch gut gefallen. Ein bisschen Luft nach oben ist noch, aber alles in allem bekommt man hier einen schönen Reihenstart, der Lust auf mehr macht.
As I have hinted at in the review for Night Flights - this is the first of the Hungry Cities series (I will admit I am sure I have known them by other names but I am sure Goodreads is right - as I thought they were the Mortal Engines?).Anyway this is my first edition I have been putting off and off for no apparent reason - till now.
I suspect a lot of that will be told in the Fever Crumb series but that is a review for another day.Now I will admit that for a book apparently aimed at 11 year olds and up the story is both devious and past paced but at the same time never sacrificing the stories quality.
Well... I picked this book back up a few times to try to just finish it but I'm finding my brain just can't handle the sheer amount of implausibility. I mean, I have a pretty strong ability to suspend disbelief but there is something about the ridiculous mechanics in this that make me unable to finish. I gave it a try though, which to me is the reason I belong to the Sword & Laser group, to try things I wouldn't have otherwise.
I think this is going to make a good movie, just based on the trailer and reading the source material. Maybe it was just me, but I couldn't help but think of The Mortal Instruments with the character Valentine and Robert Sheehan as Tom. Anna Fang is easily my favorite character - and she's probably the coolest of the entire cast. I will definitely need to continue on with this book series.
El inicio me costó un poco ya que es algo introductorio cuando nos presenta el mundo en el que las ciudades van sobre ruedas intentando alimentarse de otras ciudades mientras el movimiento antitraccionista se hace cada vez más fuerte. Pero una vez que conoces el mundo, la trama se vuelve absorvente y me sorprendió en todos los aspectos. Con ganas de ver que ocurre en el siguiente
James Cameron needn't wait another decade to make his next blockbuster. I have it next to me; or Peter Jackson could make it. I'd rather Tarantino didn't, but you never know. I have the book. The one that children will dress up for, the one that will see as many adult fans as children, the one with three more books to follow, a potential goldmine. Philip Reeve's Mortal Engines is so visually gorgeous that kites flutter from the snowy mountains as you glide above in your airship, oblivious entire
Philip Reeve's Mortal Engines is so visually gorgeous that kites flutter from the snowy mountains as you glide above in your airship, oblivious entirely to the reading of words, the turning of pages.
The book has one of the best opening lines in children's literature: 'It was a dark blustery afternoon in spring, and the city of London was chasing a small mining town across the dried-out bed of the old North Sea'.
For this reason and many others, Mortal Engines is one of very few books I would issue with an adult cover.
It really isn't clear whether Reeve was expecting adults to read the book.
