https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23770.The_Egg_and_I
And then winter settled down and I realized that defeat, like morale, is a lot of little things......WHEN you make a complete change in your mode of living, as I did, you learn that, along with the strange aspects of the new life which seep in and become part of you, will come others to which you never become accustomed.
She sold the cream and vowed she’d never tell a soul but Bill the hired man told everyone, especially people he saw coming out of the cheese factory with a five-pound round of cheese...The good layers looked motherly, their combs were full and bright red, their eyes large, beaks broad and short, and their bodies were well rounded, broad-hipped and built close to the ground.
I got a real sense of the beauty and bounty of the area and that's one thing I always enjoy about a book.Otherwise, MaCDonald's brand of humor isn't one shared by me, and I found nothing remotely funny about her life on a chicken farm in the 1940's.
And don't even get me started on her opinions of the Native Americans (let me just say that they made Ma Ingall's of Little House fame look like a charter member of the ACLU...) Really having a hard time seeing this as an American classic in humor, but there it is.
I'll leave it up to others to enjoy (or despise) this on their own.
Being of an impracticalnature myself, I got anxious and then giggling at whatI took to be a hippies-in-the-woods story.Last month, I nodded my head a lot as I read through mymother's copy that was passed on through a few inheritances.MacDonald looks to me now like an a woman who was sharpbefore her time-a person who whose sense of adventureand sense of humor allowed her to transcend the limitedchoices she was offered in the 1950's and turn the egg shewas offered into a puffy, generous and thoroughly nutrisiousomellette.-Lynn Hoffman, author of The New Short Course in Wine and a novelabout another original woman: bang BANG
Much if not most of it is fantastic.My biggest problem with this book is the author's deeply ingrained snobbery and worse, racism.
She's unbearable when discussing the Native American population of the rural Washington community she moves to, writing such hateful things that even when you take into account the times in which she grew up, there can be no mitigation of her small-mindedness, which is ironic, given her near-manic attempts to sprinkle her prose with French phrases, literary name-checks and other nuggets of erudition.Another irony: the one area of her life that falls outside the reach of her sharp pen is the power structure of her marriage.
MacDonald, as a bride in the 1920s, fell prey to her new husband's long-cherished dream of owning a chicken ranch, so off they went to the wilderness of Washington to raise chickens in a remote mountain location, where the nearest neighbors were a two-mile walk away.
Frankly, living in the wilderness without electricity or indoor plumbing (she carried water from a spring not far from their property)would be about my idea of hell, even without the chickens, but the author manages to make it all hilarious, touching, and deeply evocative of the seasons, the environment, the neighbors and the era.
Her mother came from main line, and loved throwing it away to follow her husband to the remote ends of the US in turn of the 20th century.
Her marriage to an insurance man with a yen to be a chicken farmer is just another set of experiences that just leave you gasping for air as you snigger along with her.Ms. MacDonald's book is the genesis of Ma and Pa Kettle-- no where near as cartoonish as they came out in the movies, but even more layers to them and their lives.
There's the obvious atrocious racism - I'll pass over that because it's been said many times before that it's a serious flaw, possibly an unforgiveable flaw in the book (though I found interesting the idea that what she was really objecting to was the sexism).
This woman has serious dirt issues, in that the whole subject terrifies her and that means we part company (I have an active dislike of obsessing over cleanliness and think a tidy house is often the sign of a bored mind).
I haven't thoroughly enjoyed and laughed outloud with a really good book in a very long time.
This book "The Egg and I" by Betty MacDonald has brought some fun and joy into my life.
Betty MacDonald is Ma & Pa Kettles neighbor, and the story has to do with them moving to Washington State and they have a Chicken Ranch with many other animals and crops.
She is so gifted in her way of telling her story.
I don't want to be a spoiler, as this is a Book Club read, and we have some fun ladies that are a lot of fun and I don't want to ruin it.
I adored Betty MacDonald’s four Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle books when I was a child — so much so that I tracked them down to read to my own children when they came along.
So I was ready to laugh uproariously with MacDonald’s famous memoir The Egg and I.And don’t get me wrong: Parts of the book are hilarious: her paternal grandmother Gammy, the travails of the chicken ranch, and the plight of being the intellectual but plain younger sister.
But modern-day readers will be taken aback by the antiquated expectations for wives and the acceptable level of racism toward Native Americans in the 1920s.
In fact, I myself threw down the book in disgust, and almost gave it up completely, when I read the last paragraph of the chapter titled "Bow and Arrow", in which she states that it's a good thing that we took this beautiful country away from "the braves", because Hiawatha they ain't.
The book takes place during their first year on the farm, through trials and tribulations, learning and growing, good times and bad, but always with a sense of humor, and a sense that despite Betty's grumbles, she will make it work.Okay, so for the good.
It's semi-autobiographical and written in stream-of-consciousness, as Betty tells you the story of her childhood and how she ended up married to a man who dreamed of being a chicken farmer.
So Betty is the straight-man in their marriage, and in the book, the only one seeing the strangeness and humor in it all.I grew up as the hugest fan of the Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle books, which were also written by MacDonald, and as a teen I saw the movie, The Egg & I (which is a gem), but didn't realize until a couple of years ago that a) it was originally a book, and b) it was the Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle lady's story!
Read through today's eyes, it's so horribly racist regarding Native Americans that I can't recommend it in my job, but it's a funny and warm book regardless.
I guess that's like saying, "It's a great story, minus the Klan meetings"--it's not that bad, but I can't set the racism aside, and...I don't know.
No plumbing, no electricity, bad stove (therefore little heat)--it's like a nightmare for me, for whom roughing it is a heated/air-conditioned/cable tv having cabin with a shower and no bathtub.
I plan on digging up her other books, especially her recounting of the time she spent in a tuberculosis hospital.
Like Shirley Jackson's Life Among the Savages, which I just read, MacDonald's memoir captures the life of an overwhelmed housewife with a keen mind, a sharp sense of humor, and an unusual and subversive vision of her time.
Wild mushrooms, fresh mussels, fresh oysters, fresh cream...Unfortunately, she was not ahead of her time in regard to her take on the local Native Americans: if anything, her descriptions, though intended to be humorous, are unusually mean-spirited.
However, over time I have come to accept that works and ideas are best judged in the context of their time, and I'm pretty sure MacDonald would have had a different take (or at least had the good sense to keep her mouth shut) had she been writing today.
The only unfortunately dated element is her terrible snobbishness towards rednecks and “Indians.” [Note: the sequel, The Plague and I, is about MacDonald’s time in a sanatorium recovering from tuberculosis!]Favorite passages:“Gathering eggs would be like one continual Easter morning if the hens would just be obliging and get off the nests.
Co-operation, however, is not a chickenly characteristic and so at egg-gathering time every nest was overflowing with hen, feet planted, and a shoot-if-you-must-this-old-grey-head look in her eye.”“In the country Sunday is the day on which you do exactly as much work as you do on other days but feel guilty all of the time you are doing it because Sunday is a day of rest.”“I really tried to like chickens.
MacDonald certainly has a sly wit about her and since this was her first try at writing, I certainly want to seek out The Plague and I, which was written later and probably more well-polished.Despite its humor, there are 3 reasons why this did not get 4 or 5 stars:1.
The random, insulting things said about Native Americans should be taken in their context, but they are still uncomfortable to read for a 21st century reader2.
I'm not sure if it was an editorial problem, or what, but every once in a while I would read a sentence over and over and over and just think "That's not English.
I have to say, this is my favorite book of all time.
First introduced to Betty's semi-fictionalized memoirs in the late 60s (via my mother's book collection), I've since made it a point to search outthe vintage printings of all her works.
I tend to read this book once a year or so, usually during the winter months, because there is somethingfamiliar and cozy about The Egg and I - like a pair of well worn slippers.
It's a trusted friend I turn to now & then, to bask in the whimsical adventures of a farm girl during simpler times.
No bookshelf is complete without The Egg and I.
She feels like someone you would love to meet in person.She has a way with words that is like no one I have ever come across, it was wry and endlessly witty.Beware, she has some very insensitive things to say about Native Americans in the Pacific Northwest.
This book was published in the 1940's so I decided to take it with a grain of salt.
I think her intention was to be witty but it comes off pretty badly.
Clearly she had some bad experiences and probably would have related them differently if it had been published today.
Betty MacDonald (author of the Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle series) tells the story of her early, disastrous marriage to a chicken farmer. She has a great narrative voice, a fabulous sense of humor, and a way with an anecdote. Annnnnnd she's also racist as hell. Which pretty much ruins a lot of the book. So, FYI: interesting, funny memoir of a way of farming that is now totally gone, in a part of the country not many people write about. With a giant helping of open, unapologetic racism, of the Native-Americans-are-actually-subhuman variety. Read with caution.
Thought this was hysterical. Autobiographical account of living on an egg farm in a hill-billy part of Washington. NOT PC. Humor a little down on self sometimes, like Charlie Brown. Funny and interesting snapshot of life in the 1920/1930's in the back woods.
Even her husband asks her to take it down a notch, and given that the flaws she sees in them are exactly the same flaws she sees in many of the men around her, it's surprising that she never notices that she only sees white people as individually flawed.
I'd like to give her the benefit of simply being a product of her own time, but as her own husband asks her to take it down a notch, it seems she was bigoted even by the standards of her time.
In the first few chapters, I thought a memoir by Betty McDonald's adventurous mother or eccentric grandmother might be more interesting.
She did have some interesting observations & adventures during her brief time living on a chicken farms in very rural upstate Washington, but I never really got a sense of who Betty is.
The criticism I saw in other reviews -- the very negative tone of her writing, especially when it comes to "Indians," her country neighbors, the chickens, her husband -- is very true.
Incidentally, she was sued by several of her former neighbors for her portrayal of them, even though she changed their names.
I had a feeling it would be wonderful and I was right.About midway through reading, I realized this is an autobiography about Betty MacDonald's life on a chicken farm in the state of Washington.
I loved the chicken ranch and the orchard and the forest.
And all the chickens and animals!
Living on a farm sounds like it would be peaceful and wonderful.
But Betty MacDonald brings all the hard work to light.
But the story was wonderful and if Betty's other books are as funny as this one, then I can't wait.

The author of the beloved Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle children’s books marries and moves to a chicken ranch on the Olympic Peninsula of Washington state in the 1930s.
She is not a happy farmer, and she writes of everything and everyone from Stove to goeducks to the indigenous population both white and Indian with fearless sensibility and a hilarious eye for detail.
This was a book written before the invention of political correctness, and it’s worth reading alone for her ruthless depiction of her neighbors, Ma and Pa Kettle.
Yes, the Ma and Pa Kettle movies starring Claudette Colbert and Fred MacMurray were inspired by this book.
First published in 1945, this book seems now not as hilarious as when I read it in the fifties. The stereotyping is just awful when seen from the 21st century. However, Ma and Pa Kettle are unforgettable, and I have always enjoyed yelling, whenever I see a home-cum-junkyard in my travels, "Look! There's a Ma and Pa Kettle house!" I feel like I already know, and feel kindly toward, the inhabitants.
Written about her years as a young bride living on a Washington state chicken farm that had neither electricity nor running water, the book definitely takes you back to a time and place that no longer exists in America, and I found it fascinating.Although the book was a huge hit when it came out in the late 1940s, it was later criticized for its anti-Native American sentiment, and it's true MacDonald pulled no punches when it came to her negative feelings about the Native American population living around her.
Since I read these kinds of memoirs specifically for their very personal takes on history, I find value in learning about the negative aspects of the times as well as the positive ones.Read this book if you're a fan of American history via personal memoir, particularly from a woman's perspective.
Although she knows nothing about running a ranch let alone chickens she is now a rancher's wife getting up at 4 am.
and working all day gathering eggs, planting gardens, canning all kinds of vegetables, meats etc.
Some of her book is humorous, especially when she writes about the Kettles.
other parts are kind of mean and insensitive, especially when she writes about living among the "Indians" she makes clear her dislike of them.
but I did like the "fish out of water" that she felt living on a ranch because her husband made her.{ I read elsewhere they eventually divorced a few years later}
This is a supposedly hilarious memoir about a 22-year-old woman whose new husband tells her he's going to buy a farm and raise chickens.
I admire her for seeing the funny side, but it didn't make me laugh.
She's also predisposed by the time (late 1920's) and place to think of Indians as drunks and layabouts, though her husband, who clearly prefers the company of men, shows no such prejudice.
I think, if you want to laugh, movie with Fred McMurray and Claudette Colbert is a better bet.
Asi jsem pochopil, v čem je schovaný úspěch této knihy. Nenásilný jazyk, který volně plyne, jako čas na slepičí farmě. Příběh ženy, která zasvětila svůj život manželovi a práci na farmě. Střet s realitou místa (a místních lidí) doprovází téměř lyrické pohledy na těžký život farmáře. Líbilo se mi to, ale řadím to někam do škatulky "milé, ale nic víc".
(NB: She portrays native Americans in a way that many readers today will not be able to tolerate.)As I kid I fondly remember the movies based on this book and especially the characters of Ma and Pa Kettle.
Though it has echoes of that with Bob her husband being a fairly capable man being able to pull off life as a chicken farmer.
In the mix of this she is also able to nicely relate the scenery around her and it brought up my own memories of the time I lived in Washington State while in the Navy.As in the movies the funniest characters are Ma and Pa Kettle, the next door neighbors as semi-hillbillies.
