https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/52643.In_the_Flesh
Barker delivers his double message cleverly enough camouflaged that sadly, a lot of people probably do dismiss works like The Forbidden as simply being of the horror “slasher” genre.The Madonna is a wonderfully imaginative tale of ambiguity, which touches on relationship and gender issues, but overall delivers a delightful sense of the weird and macabre that only a Kafka or Lovecraft can match, yet delivered in pleasantly muted tones which makes it an enjoyable read.Babel’s Children is a delightful little comic satire displaying Barker’s disdain for world politics.In the Flesh was probably the story that touched me the most deeply and remained with me the longest, even managing to find it’s way into my dreams.
The manifestation of evil, "in the flesh" is the theme which unites all four novellas in this early Barker work.The highlight here is, undoubtedly, "THE FORBIDDEN".
It is melancholia wrapped in detective noir, supernatural urban legend; a human investment into something larger than the self.
Helen, the doomed protagonist, looks for an interesting thesis in walls exploded with urban symbols: graffiti.
I almost cried for Helen.I read "The Forbidden" and felt immediately that Horror is alive and well (true-this comes to us from the 80s...
The story about the Candyman, a must read for all aspiring writers, was an A+.
مرة أخرى مع الشيف المتمكن كليف باركر وسَلَطة رعب تحتوي على جميع عناصر أدب الرعب الحقيقي، لا أعتقد أنها ستخيب ظنك.الغموض موجود، التشويق كذلك، شيء من الرمزية، رشّة أفكار مبتكرة وكل ذلك على طبق من الأجواء الكابوسية القاتمة.
المهم ألا تسول لك نفسك الهروب من ذلك السجن وإلا فلا تلومن إلا ذاتك.الكيان: هذه المرة يحبسنا باركر بين أربعة جدران حيث يٌكلّف السجين المخضرم بحماية "العود الطري" الذي وفد حديثا، ستحترم السجين القديم وتتعاطف مع الآخر المستضعف حتى تكشف الأسرار المدفونة في مقبرة السجن، عندها ستتعاطف مع الأول ولن يكون شعورك محددا تجاه الثاني.
Barker to me.What was a surprise, though, was "The Madonna", the first story in the entirety of "Books of Blood" (that I've read so far; I still have volume 6 to read) that I found to be an anticlimax.
The buildup was amazing, the elements were all there, but then it just...
deflated when The Madonna herself made her appearance.
(view spoiler)[rape?
(hide spoiler)] Ugh) Hey, just one story out of the 25 in the five volumes is an amazing ratio.
I'm cool with it.So my least favourite was "The Madonna", and my most favourite would have to be "The Forbidden".
Of course, I don't mean to say that these particular stories aren't creepy (they definitely are) or that they didn't send shivers down my spine (they did).
They're not meant to simply make you feel disgust or shocked, but they are rather character-driven.Comparisons with Stephen King are inevitable and although there are some obvious similarities, Barker seems to have developed a unique style of his own, equally haunting and riveting.
This is obvious in all four stories, all of which I almost equally liked.
So, first contact with Barker was succesful and I'll most likely be coming back for more.
Типично в негов стил Клайв Баркър успя за пореден път да ме изкефи, да ме шокира и отврати, че дори и да ме издразни. Личният ми фаворит от 4-те творби в томчето е именно откриващата - "Забраненият" - при Кендимен лабаво нема! "Мадоната" и "Децата на Вавилон" нещо не успяха да ме спечелят, а вторият по скромното ми мнение е доста средняшко изпълнение, без никаква вътрешна логика. "В плътта" оправи нещата достатъчно за сносна крайна оценка.
Έχοντας διαβάσει μόνο το Hellraiser μέχρι στιγμής από τον Clive Barker, αποφάσισα να βρω κάποιο από Τα Βιβλία του Αίματος που ξέρω ότι θεωρούνται εξαιρετικά.
Οφείλω να πω επίσης πως όλοι οι χαρακτήρες που παρουσιάζονται είναι πολύ καλοδουλεμένοι και ας έχουν χώρο δράσης 50 σελίδες πάνω-κάτω στην κάθε ιστορία.Αλλά!
Η 2η είχε κάποιο ενδιαφέρον αλλά και πάλι μέχρι εκεί.
Πραγματικά ήταν μια εξαιρετική ιστορία ανάμεσα στη ζωή και το θάνατο και στον ύπνο και τον ξύπνιο που σε αρπάζει και δε σε αφήνει.
Αν ήταν μόνο αυτή η ιστορία θα έβαζα ένα ολοκάθαρο 5.
За пети път Баркър ужасява: http://knigolandia.info/book-review/k...В края на миналата година дойде регулярната доза хорър от Клайв Баркър – “Колибри” ни закачиха на кукичката още в началото и сега като наркомани си искаме още и още :) Петият том “Кървави книги” прочетох още преди месец, но имах нужда от някакво време, преди да седна да пиша за него.
Седнах и си прегледах предишните, спомних си за “В хълмовете, градовете” от първия том, “Кожите на бащите” от втория, ”Негово Величество Роухед” от третия, “Откровения” от четвъртия – във всяка от книгите имаше по някоя история, от която ми настръхваха косите, макар че обаянието на първите два тома си остава недостижимо.
Colibri Bookshttp://knigolandia.info/book-review/k...
Another great intallment in the books of blood by Clive Barker. 4 awesome stories from which the first " The Forbidden" is the basis for the Candyman movie:D As always clive gives us much more than just the surface blood and gore. Its a twisted journey inside peoples psyche.Two more books of blood to go:) 4 stars:)
Много слабо.С Баркър сме на приливи и отливи.
А и големите идеи са концентрирани в любимата ми тема за Града, която той застъпва почти навсякъде, но размива с малоумни претупани финали и педерастки постановки.Първият разказ за Сладура е най-добрият от книгата заради атмосферата и цялостното изграждане на образа на обречения, пропит с грехове Град, който отчаяно си плаче за Потоп, че ми се плачеше на финала, когато недоклатените щрихи се изсипаха като разпилени клечки за зъби.
Проблясъците от време на време, не са ми достатъчни.Определено слаба част от поредицата, която се чудя дали да не препрочета, колкото да смъкна оценката с много няколко звездици.
I'm still finding the quality increases as I work through the volumes. But I have to say, though it doesn't say much, there was one quote that I found quite chilling, from the story The Forbidden:"Don't kill me," she breathed."Do you believe in me?" he said.She nodded minutely. "How can I not?" she said."Then why do you want to live?"Brilliant stuff, that.
Най-слабият сборник от поредицата досега. Реално бих му дал една звезда по-малко, но в случая съм добър защото много харесвам автора, както и останалите му книги, които съм чел.
This book is a collection of 4 novelettes from "The New Master of Horror." (not so new anymore!)The title piece, "In the Flesh" deals with a petty criminal trapped in a jail cell with a first-time offender who's messing with more than he bargained for in the spirit of his executed murderer grandfather...."The Forbidden" is the story the movie Candyman was based on.
a business deal with a mobster turns into something far more when chthonic horrors lurk in a closed public pool complex..."Babel's Children" - not so much a horror story as a paranoid conspiracy theory.
Much of it was familiar to me, having seen the Candyman film enough times.
The creepy vibe of the film, and the Candyman himself in particular, came through in satisfying ways.
But the story created even more, i think, than the film.
It draws on similar themes to High Rise, but with more of a horror twist and i loved it.With not one story i didn’t enjoy, compared to the 700+ novel that failed to engage me, it’s clear Barker is a far, far more accomplished short story teller.
While i’m unlikely to pick up one of his novels, i won’t hesitate to jump into another of his short story collections.A longer review can be read at my book blog: Marvel at Words.
This was the American edition of the last tales of the Book of Blood. Barker managed to keep the quality high right to the end. After this, he concentrated on novels until he gravitated from horror to fantasy. I prefer these early works to anything later. There is a deep dark and very visceral feel to these stories.
Very intriguing collection of short stories. I started reading this because I'm a big Candyman fan, but the other stories in it really hooked me. Looking forward to going back and reading the first four Books of Blood.
Probably my favourite part of all the books of blood, they seem to get better as they go on
This is my favorite volume in the Books of Blood.
The first, 'In The Flesh', is a strange tale following the mind of a convict, Cleve, who is forced by an overeager warden to be the caretaker of his new cellmate, Billy.
Baffling and strange, as Barker's works typically are, the short tale is blessed with bizarre imagery, unusual characters and an intriguing outcome.
The endings a strange little thing, one I never saw coming, but a dark wrap-up that strangely fits.Following the unsettling piece is the short story of the legendary Candyman, in written form titled The Forbidden.
Short stories aren't my cup of tea, but Barker's writing style in his other Books of Blood anthologies and this one are sure to please.
The six volumes were all released in their individual forms back in 1985, this fifth volume contains the following short stories: The Forbidden - 37 pages "There are some taboos too terrible to be broken.
Babel's Children - 27 pages "A paradise island, lost in a sparkling sea, what better place to plot the end of the world?" A bit of a different short story here, compared with the rest of the shorts in the Books Of Blood.
One of the most loved and enjoyed of Barker's short stories is this dark and twisted tale that takes you on a trip through the weird and limitless imagination of Clive Barker.
An unnerving collection of four short stories, I especially liked The Forbidden, which was the basis for the Candyman film. I'm a big fan of the film but I'd have to concede that the story is better!
Който си пъха носа където не му е работа, може да съживи някоя легенда, която ей-така, за да му докаже, че не е само мит, да го цъкне в минало свършено време.***Лесните пари водят двама души - единият е престъпник с много пари, другият - опортюнист с усет, който често го е провалял - в една нестандартна баня, последната им такава като мъже.***Реалистичен политически хорър, в който куфарчетата с червени копчета са отключени, отворени и засенчени от засилваща се надолу длан...***Това, че някой ти е роднина, не означава, че те цени повече от себе си.
Ако Изкуплението Шоушенк имаше зъл брат близнак, то това трябва да е В плътта от Клайв Баркър.***Само четири разказа, само двеста страници, а толкова много ужаси и хорър, толкова много тръпки по тялото на читателя...!
Clive Barker's shorter fictions are so compelling, and his mind creates some of the most incredible things. I read the four short works over a period of time, and in-between novels, so as to have something to savor. These are dark and bizarre little pieces, each with a unique premise. Master.
BiblioBabe Kat gave this a 9.5/10! Read her review here: http://www.bibliobabes.ca/2/post/2011...
Τα Παιδια της Βαβελ: WTF? Στο συγκεκριμενο 6 αστερακια
Not quite as good as the previous volumes but still worthwhile, since it is Barker. Includes the story that Candyman was based on.
While reading these four short stories, a couple of them seemed familiar, so I may have read this a very long time ago.
I wasn’t crazy about the first story.
It just wasn’t my cup of tea, but I liked The Forbidden, which the movie Candyman, was based on.
I’ve never watched the movie, but feel like now I should.
It felt timely to me because of the shape the world is in right now.
I mean, who would ever think that some crazy old coot would be able to maintain order in the world, when perhaps the president of the US could not?
But what the inmate doesn’t know is that the grandfather has other plans in mind, which involve a trade-off, bringing his old body back to life, where he will be able to continue where he left off.“The Forbidden”: The true story to the successful movie, Candyman, brings a college student to the ghettos of New York, where she hears the local legend of the man who smells of sweets and takes lives.
There is a final confrontation between Helen and the Candyman, while the world around continues on as if nothing is happening.“The Madonna”: In a special building of astounding architecture there is a supernal activity taking place.
I think it actually works better as a movie (not just because more background info was added) but I still enjoyed the story.The Madonna - Some people are trying to redevelop an old swimming pool complex but some weird things start happening when they're separated or there alone.
I love the whole concept, the main character irritated and interested me (sometimes Clive Barker's women fall flat), and there were parts that were creepy and made me think, as well as parts that made me laugh.In The Flesh - Billy Tait is Cleve Smith's new cellmate in jail.
I found this at the used book store, after having an unsettling day that I wanted a distraction from.
Lo and behold, an entire collection of Clive Barker stories I'd never heard of!
Now that I've read them, I can understand why his "Books of Blood" are so well known while this one...isn't.
A couple of interesting moments, some deliberate cliches (Instead of a hand, his arm ended in *gasp* a hook!), and probably the most florid prose I've ever read.
I'm glad Clive has calmed down a little since writing these; saying something in twenty-five words when five would do doesn't make a story scarier, or more interesting.
