https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7938275-the-hunger-games-trilogy-boxset
(It wasn’t my best review because we’re encouraged not to say anything bad about the books, the object being to get people to read, not to drive them away.)The first book, Hunger Games, is awesome.
The characters, the politics and the good narrative stop it from feeling tired and dull, and again, it’s a good read, but it’s lost its originality and some of the excitement that made the first book so entertaining.And then there’s the real problem; Catching Fire isn’t a complete narrative on its own.
Suzanne Collins is the first author who made me actually want to pursue reading.
For this and many other reasons named below, The Hunger Games is truly remarkable.I'm obviously very late on writing a review for this series, as there have been four fantastic blockbuster movies for these books that have been out for so long.
(hide spoiler)] Again, the amazing Josh Hutcherson portrays Peeta flawlessly.I cannot possibly name all the characters and my opinions of them in this review, but they all have some sort of impact on you and your own opinion of reading this trilogy.
I finished reading the entire trilogy in three days so I guess it captured something in me.
Although it's touted as a book for young readers there is something here for everyone.
The story is told in the first person by Katniss who unwittingly becomes the "Mockingjay" a hybrid bird that becomes the symbol of revolution as the story enfolds.
Archetypes abound and at the center of it all is Katniss, an unforgettable heroic force who has to battle against overwhelming odds before she is able to attend to her own happiness.
I can fully understand why these three books are flying off the shelves.
To start things off right, a quote from Hunger Games. "The girl’s scream. Had it been her last?" Context: Katniss has been confronted with a girl who had her tongue cut off as punishment and remembers seeing her years earlier just as she was caught. According to memory, as the girl was dragged away, she screamed. Now years later and in the present, Katniss wonders: "The girl’s scream. Had it been her last?" Because people without tongues apparently can't scream.We'll get back to this and what i
That sounds like an American rip-off of Battle Royale." From that moment on, there was little that could stop me from diving straight into Suzanne Collins' derivative little world.See, Battle Royale was this Japanese movie (adapted from a book I haven't read yet—Christmas, anyone?) in which the government, for inexplicable reasons, takes a class of thirty highscoolers every year and dumps them in this jungle-y arena and demands they fight to the death with a single victor remaining in three days lest the explosive collars they all wear be detonating, rendering no survivors.
Amongst the few book I read after seeing the movie (part 1) and I must say I liked having those extravagant pictures in my mind while enjoying the whole story.It was a very compelling ride!
I'm realizing only now that my smartphone's notification sound is Rue's whistle - and I read the series 2 years ago!I don't specifically watch out for the Young Adult genre, being over 40 myself, so I decided on reading this after having liked the movie and didn't mind at all.
Between books and movies, I have about 7 years of my life invested into The Hunger Games.
And my life was never the same.These books really rekindled my love for reading and the anticipation of waiting a year between releases, I think, really trapped me in this new fangirl universe.
I was hooked, so before each new release, I of course would reread all books out to date.
Before Catching Fire's release in 2009, I reread Hunger.
Then before Mockingjay's release in 2010, I reread Hunger and Catching Fire.
I had settled down to write a glowing, gushing review that would make the idiots people who haven't read this, drop everything and get their hands on this one and bask in the glow that is  Katniss Everdeen. Yep, you read that right. As good as the plot, the writing and everything else is, the protagonist Katniss, outshines them all effortlessly. She is brave, courageous and strong, oh so strong.So, anyway, about the review: Nothing I can say/write can't even begin to summarize just how awesome,
I had settled down to write a glowing, gushing review that would make the idiots people who haven't read this, drop everything and get their hands on this one and bask in the glow that is 
Katniss Everdeen.
Yep, you read that right.
As good as the plot, the writing and everything else is, the protagonist Katniss, outshines them all effortlessly.
She is brave, courageous and strong, oh so strong.So, anyway, about the review: Nothing I can say/write can't even begin to summarize just how awesome, beautiful, heart-breaking it was is.
A dystopian 'Lord of the Flies' - loved it!! Thank you, Suzanne Collins, for a well-written YA novel.
Spoilers ahead.Listen to the review of The Hunger Games series.
Her sister Primrose, who is 12 years old, is chosen as the girl tribute to represent their District in the hunger games, where the tributes fight each other to death.
This is because the Capitol feels that she had defied them by her move at the end of the games to ensure her survival as well as Peeta’s.Katniss is portrayed as a tough girl, who loves her sister Prim more than anyone or anything.
The focus in the Potter books is on the plot and the characters' journey and growth through it all, and though they explore some mature themes, that element is used more as a storytelling device to drive character growth and plot development, and is only slipped in once the reader is enthralled by the world of the books and the characters within.In contrast, The Hunger Games trilogy is not about Katniss, Gale, and Peeta, and their adventures in the land of Panem, and should not be read as such.
Fabulous series! Highly recommended. Written as young adult fiction, but absolutely enjoyable for adults.
After I read Twilight and was bitterly disappointed with the last two books in that series, I swore I would never pick up any more YA fiction.
I did kind of wonder why Katniss wasn't thinking about Gale all the time when she was in the arena, but I suppose when you're fighting to stay alive your boyfriend back home kind of takes a backseat.I did fall in love with Peeta - nothing more needs be said on that.
The attempt to give her flaws that are supposed to make her human and bring her to life in our minds stops short, instead only managing to make her insufferable, willfully stupid and in possession of just as much female intuition as a weightlifter on steroids.Neither heroine nor antiheroine, Katniss doesn't truly care about anything or anyone but herself and makes a perfect case in point for the selfishness of altruism.
Deeply unrewarding, lacking in affirmation, and worse, rather insincere due to the lack of emotional impact and paucity of credible characters.
I could not care for any of the characters, who were a thoroughly unpleasant bunch for the most part, the lead characters lacking in credibility and real motivation; the good supporting characters few and far apart and always boringly bland and destined to die, the bad ones tirelessly verminous, either violent propagators of pain or uninterestingly, obliviously selfish.
Winning the Hunger Games means a life of comfort for the victor’s family as well as a year's worth of food and supplies to the winning district.In this horribly disturbing world, we are introduced to the protagonist Katniss Everdeen, a girl who volunteers to take her little sister's place in the Hunger Games.
The trilogy is essentially the story of Katniss and how she goes from a girl struggling to win the Games to a symbol of rebellion for the oppressed.
After completing this reading of the trilogy, all together, I'd like to pull up something profound.
They are also deeply moving stories, about the desperate people on the outside of rich society.
As well, it is the story of one girl, deeply wrapped up in her own small community, who is forced to taken a broader view of her society and what it means.
It's a story about how to stage a rebellion.
It's a reminder to not just question authority, but to question everything.Reading it has left me sad, in a good way.Personal copy
Book Three, on it's own, was another, third, but weakest spin on the same film, as Collins was so intent on delivering to readers what they wanted instead of providing a way to utilize all of these smart characters, all who were part of a revolution, and all who could have reasonably come together to a brilliant but bloodless takeover.
Suzanne Collins has crafted a book trilogy that seamlessly embodies rebellion, power, survival, and the collapse of a government due to a handful of berries.Katniss Everdeen is your average, everyday, stubborn teenager who also happens to support her family with her excellent aim with a bow and arrow.
So naturally, the following year they force Katniss and Peeta to compete again, this time with former victors of the games.
She has really written a great series of books that, to me, have become a game-changer for young-adult literature.
I never got around to reading this series, though I bought the bundle back in September when it was on sale, until I started seeing the trailers for the movie.
I'll be going to see the movie, so I knew I had to read the books first.Hunger Games: I thought the first book was outstanding.
I couldn't put it down until I found out how it ended.Catching Fire: This book was mostly a bridge between the first and third books, but still a good read in its own right.
I know there has been more hoopla about reading this book all over the place.
It would have been more expensive.Right now just thinking about all the events went on in the books and I want to cry and rage and then be so terribly content.
I hope Draco doesn't get upset with me, but I think have fallen in Love with Peeta.
Just thinking about Katniss' pain and Peeta's struggle to endure his flashbacks makes me appreciate the world we in a little more.
Not sure what other readers might think or feel, but these are mine.On Gale; he is such a prick.
These things make it hard for her to accept at face value that anyone could love her, or want to help her.I loved the first book, it is hard to comprehend a world in which these oppressive living conditions and the games were an accepted part of life, to see how Katnis reacted to this world and the games, and to see her love of life and her compassion for others in face of the oppression and injustice of the games.I need to confess to a book prejudice...the ending is a major factor in my judgment about a book, and this one failed on several accounts.
Suzanne Collins possesses all the talent I have been looking unsuccessfully for in a modern author for a VERY long time- which is why I mostly stick to re-reading classics.
Thank you, thank you Ms. Collins for restoring my faith in fiction after the fickle and meteoric rise to super-fame of much less talented storytellers over the past decade!This story is so steadily driven toward it's end goal, and the character development is refreshingly, and in some cases tragically realistic.
I found myself surprised many times over by how attached I had become to even minor characters as the story progressed.
I still have such a hard time accepting that this stark dystopian series was aimed at middle school young adults, and knowing that even younger children are reading it (with parental approval).
The trilogy should come with an enormous warning for parents and teachers to read the set first to see if they want their kids to get caught up in this sad view.
Yes, Harry Potter has darkness also, but it has a wide team of strong kids and adults who care for each other and stand by each other.
I snagged this trilogy during an ebook sale in late September 2011.
I had already read the first novel, the Hunger Games (click here for my review) in April 2010, and really hadn't planned on continuing.
But the sale price was just too good to pass up.
As promised, I finished reading the second novel on October 15th (click here for my review).
Overall, I will rate this series three stars via GoodReads (since I gave the first and last books three stars and the middle book four stars), but 3.5 stars using my own rating system.
I'm late to the party with this one, so I won't bother to write a full review.I read the whole trilogy after seeing the first movie.
(view spoiler)[In particular, I was glad to see that I was right about Katniss' relationship with Peeta in the first Games--that she was uncertain about her feelings but knew she needed to manipulate the sponsors.
(hide spoiler)]If I hadn't read the full trilogy all at one go, I might have stopped after the first book.
However, I did have the full trilogy, and the second book sucked me in completely.
Aquí tenéis las reviews por separada por si alguien le importa verlas por separado.Juegos del hambre
بَعضُ الرواياتْ ..جميلةٌ وغايةٌ في الروعة..ما أن يمدحها شخص .. أو يثْني عليها ..حتى ينقصَها حقَها ..وثلاثية مباريات الجوع من هذه الروايات .
Each district has a specific trade that nearly everyone is expected (and forced) to contribute to.The defining mark of the Capitol regime is "the Hunger Games," an annual event where both a male and female tribute from each district are forced to fight to the death in a massive booby-trap ridden arena as perpetual punishment for an uprising in a time called "the Dark Days."The trilogy follows the life of a teenager named Katniss, who volunteers to take the place of her younger sister as a tribute from District 12.
Despite all this, I did want her to end up with Peeta, but then again, I usually pick the right "ship" in any series - the authors always leave clues people.Katniss:As a protagonist, I thought Collins did an excellent job here.
I thought there was an absolutely beautiful scene in the war room as the characters named off the moments in the previous books in which Katniss herself had moved them.
The conversation between the two love intrests in Mockingjay, in which Gale declares Katniss will choose who she needs to survive attempts to set-up this great choice and we are left to wonder how she will choose.
I was proud in that moment when just pages before I wanted to kill her when she agreed to yet ANOTHER hunger games.The atrocities that happen in this book and the way of life the people are forced to endure was unbelieveable.
It blew my mind how easy it was for those kids to kill each other and for the stupid people in the capitol to get joy out of it.I liked how fast paced the books are, you cannot stop reading because your favorite characters are constantly battling between life and death, good and evil, love and hate.
