https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2177370.Tony_and_Susan
Austin Wright structured Tony and Susan as a story within a story.
It’s through Susan that the reader learns about Nocturnal Animals’s main character, Tony, and the most nightmarish time of his life.
This isn’t to say Nocturnal Animals is good, just that it’s slightly less terrible.
It’s as if Wright felt a straight-up thriller wouldn’t be impressive enough and therefore decided upon the story-within-a-story structure.
There’s a definite introspective tone to this book, and it seems obvious Wright was aiming for a literary fiction thriller.
a man who does not know what to do with violence when he is confronted with it, but will maybe have to eventually tap into that side of himself.something like this, maybe:and susan, reading the tony character's story, begins to question what her own life has meant, and where her decisions have led her, and wonders where, in the edward she knew, this novel has germinated.it's good stuff.
A married woman gets the manuscript of a book entitled Nocturnal Animals through the post from an ex-husband she’s barely heard from in the past 20 years.
As Susan reads through the manuscript (a dark, dense and harrowing tale in its own right) she starts to reflect on the shortfalls of her current marriage and on her would be writer ex-husband, and the role she played in thwarting this aim.
Tony and Susan was first published in 1993 (the author died in 2003).
Incredibly disappointed by this book--Susan is reading a novel(Nocturnal Animals) sent to her by her ex-husband, Edward.
For some reason, she feels that the manuscript is some sort of veiled threat from Edward (why she thinks this, I don't know--it really doesn't make sense.
Susan is just neurotic).
Tony, the main character in Edward's novel, is aggravating to the point where you just want to scream.
I found myself wanting to just put down this book because I could not stomach the idiocy of Tony and Susan.
I kept reading largely because I wanted to see how Tony's story is resolved (very unsatisfactorily).
The hype for this novel simply isn't justified.
Unfairly marketed as "the new GONE GIRL" (just how many of those are we going to get before publishers finally realize that this is about as much of a selling-point as "comes with its own raw blubber carrying-case"?), this is a truly spectacular book - part-thriller; part investigation into the uneasy relationship between reader and writer; part exploration of fiction; part study of human relationships, neuroses, anxiety, grief and what it means to be civilized.
If so, I shall avoid it, simply because I don't believe that the plot of this book - gripping though it undoubtedly is - is what makes it so unique.
perfect and harsh story
La novela en la que se basa Animales nocturnos.
Animales nocturnos es el título del manuscrito de Edward y tres noches lo que tarda Susan (su ex) en leerlo.
La escena de los coches y la familia, los perturbados esos que no sabes por dónde te van a salir y demás, sin querer desvelar nada, es prácticamente idéntica a la película (aunque más adelante el libro tiene sus cambios) y posee la misma tensión y atmosfera mal rollera e insana.
La única pena no haber descubierto antes la novela que la película porque me ha quitado mucho intríngulis.
Es aquí donde la parte de misterio se desarrolla de manera explícita, la persecución, el sentimiento de abandono y la soledad son tratados de manera magnífica, y puedo decir que el final de este manuscrito me pareció excelente y lo suficientemente trágico, inesperado y simbólico.Ahora bien, en conjunto ambas historias lo que buscan es demostrar la naturaleza de Susan y Edward, y como se deterioraron y lastimaron el uno al otro, además de cómo al caer la noche ninguno de los dos fue un santo.
(view spoiler)[Tony’s wife and daughter could represent Susan while Ray Marcus (the rapist/murderer) could be Edward’s rage at Susan for cheating on and divorcing him; that all of them die could be Edward’s rage at Susan also dying (an idea highlighted by Edward not meeting Susan at the end to discuss her feedback of his book – he doesn’t care, he just wanted her to know that he’d moved on).
Tony is written as a very weak-willed man and the flashback chapters to Susan and Edward’s married life shows Edward as similarly passive; Tony’s death at the end could represent the death of Edward’s passivity.
A story within a story that fails to deliver more than passing interest.Edward, Susan’s first husband, has sent her his novel, Nocturnal Animals, to read before he comes to visit.
Susan, a little at loose ends with her husband in New York at a conference, reads the manuscript and is caught up in Tony’s dilemma.
He fails to give Tony, Susan, Edward, or Arnold more than a glancing touch with his narrative brush.
One thing Wright did get right was the way Edward’s novel was written as an amateur’s first draft.
This is a re-release of a book that reviewed well but didn't have a large readership, the author has since passed away but the publishers think so highly of this book that they have given it a second chance. I have to admit that it really held my interest, it is a book within a book construct, but the foreboding tension of the story is fantastic. The last third of the book was not as good as what came before but it has stuck in my mind. That is always the sign to me of a successful book.
Never has a book stretched out for so long, seemingly never-ending, and I have read the LOTR trilogy!Honestly?
I didn't like Susan (the narrator) - I felt she was smug, even after excavating her crappy life with her adulterous husband.
I just didn't care.The manuscript by Edward (Susan's ex-husband of the past 25 years) was somewhat more interesting.
It was forced, a desperate attempt at making this novel about how one writes and reads rather than how we associate a books narrative with our own lives in order to understand or contextualise a characters actions/situation.
The most gripping, unusual, elegantly written fiction I’ve read in some time.
Though “postmodern mysteries” too often trend toward the over-precious and self-absorbed, this one delivers in a very fundamental, even insidious way.
Ex-husband Edward, after twenty years of separation, sends remarried ex-wife his manuscript about a man whose wife and daughter are abducted, raped, and murdered along an empty stretch of Pennsylvania freeway, after which he stumbles into something akin to revenge.
The book-within-a-book is riveting, but it’s Susan’s response to what she didn’t know about Edward, and thus herself, that lifts an otherwise excellent read to the level of the unforgettable.
So when this book turns up many years later - both of them now married to new people the question is why?This novel is unusual as we get to be Susan.
It's an interesting perspective to be a reader, in a characters mind as they read a book.
Some aspects of Susan's reading perspective and how it's projected is why this didn't hit 5 stars overall for me.
So I give this 4, almost 4.5 stars overall and as I said the manuscript within 5 stars that Susan is invited to read.
This book annoyed me to the point of madness. It was filled with unbelievable situations,ridiculous choices and irritating ,ineffectual characters. I am floored that someone read this book and proclaimed,"This book will make a great movie,someone get Gyllenhaal on the phone" It was as pointless as my dog chasing her tail,but a least she seems to get enjoyment from it.
Ed has told Susan he will be visiting and wants to speak to her about the book as "she was always his best critic." The novel is disturbing - a man (Tony) is travelling in a car with his wife and daughter when they're ran off the road by a group of thugs.
I raced through Ed's novel to get to Susan's "real life" chapters and was treated to pages and pages of her reminiscing about stuff that had happened when she was married to Ed, or about wondering if her new boring husband Arnold was being faithful.
And, the thing is, the problem I have with this book isn't that severe.I saw the movie first.
Things didn't change or happen and, in the end, it was a decent movie with a great director who knew how to spin a tale.So, I decided to read the book the movie was based on.It's told from two very different perspectives.
You get the sense that Susan's unhappy with her life and thinks her second husband could be cheating on her, but it's never followed up.I found Tony's story, both in the book and the movie, far more compelling.
2.5 StarsFor a thriller it's pretty slow paced and boring.
Este es uno de esos libros que al terminarlo te deja en blanco, como en shock, como en una especie de trance.
Tres noches juega a dos bandas, una es la historia de una mujer, Susan, insatisfecha, o vacía con su vida, que recibe el manuscrito de su ex marido Edward.
De esa historia vamos sabiendo cómo la novela va afectado a Susan y conocemos el pasado de ella con Edward.
"Tres noches" no tiene una prosa poética, va directamente al grano, no se anda con chiquitas.
Writing was strange. I was expecting some exciting plot twist, it did not happen. Tony and Susan were both odd characters and I could not relate to them. Maybe the movie will be better? Haha
This time I like the movie (Nocturnal Animals) better than the book. It was an elegant visual feast!
Nell'insieme, io c'ho visto dell'originalità.Attraverso una scrittura liquida che ho apprezzato, Tony & Susan diventa presto un unboxing, un continuo livello di lettura dopo l'altro, forse un esperimento narrativo?
Non un thriller di certo, l'incipit alla Criminal Minds non è che un pretesto, un contentino alla nostra curiosità più infima, per farci entrare nella mente di Susan e cercare insieme a lei un qualche significato finale.
Un romanzo che mi ha ricordato spesso una composizione musicale, un viaggio lucido nell'introspezione di Tony & Susan, i due lati di una moneta.Non griderei al capolavoro, in definitiva, però ve lo consiglio.
Tenía que darle unaa oportunidad... y ya se la he dado. No aporta mucho más de lo esperado, avanza a trancas y barrancas, y cuando termina cerramos el libro sin pena ni gloria. a
Pero tampoco merece del todo las dos estrellas, así que lo dejo en 1,5.Os resumo el libro en una frase: la protagonista lee un libro que ha escrito su ex-marido.Cuando empecé a leer, creí que sería un thriller y que las dos historias (la de la protagonista y la del libro que lee) se juntarían en algún momento o de algún modo.Pos no.
Por no mencionar que se hace innecesariamente largo y rebuscado ._.Por otro lado tenemos la historia de la protagonista, la que lee el manuscrito.
I wanted to read this book before seeing the movie but the only edition I could get from the library was the audio version.
She begins to wonder what type of man Edward has become and whether this book and Edward’s request for her to read it is his means of sending her some type of a message about their marriage.
This book is much more profound than “Gone Girl” will ever be.A unique and inventive story about the power of the written word, the responsibility of authors to their readers, revenge, grief, marriage and trust.
In his novel, Nocturnal Animals, Edward writes of right and wrong, retribution and revenge.The reader can compare their own critique of Edward’s novel with Susan’s, as well as feeling her quiet desperation at dreams lost and suburban life.
As both stories progress, we also get to learn about Susan and Edward’s back story while she examines the life choices she made.Nocturnal Animals itself is a great thriller but I was disappointed with the last third of the book although Susan didn’t seem to notice, despite admitting she was often over-critical of Edward’s writing during their marriage.
Loved the conceit at the heart of this book - you the reader are reading 'along with' the main character Susan who is reading a manuscript of her ex-husband's novel.
It's also a book about revenge - revenge is at the heart of the manuscript, but it's also present somewhere in the relationships of the people outside of the book, Susan, her husband and her ex-husband.
However for me the novel didn't quite clinch on this and I felt it was slightly over-focused on the manuscript story to the detriment of the story of Susan & those around her.
The thriller part was thrilling to begin with, but the love story was just boring.
I couldn' t care less about the protagonists and their sorry love lives.
And i couldn't see any meaning in intertwining the two stories.
Was the thriller supposed to cast some light on their failed marriage?
Even the thriller got too complicated and lost its momentum after a few chapters.
I read in one rewiev that Susan thought the manuscript to be a warning.
A warning of what?
That the intellectual Edward had turned in to a madman seeking revenge because Susan had left him twentyfive years ago?
I thought that this book was a thriller inside another narrative.
But what's worse is the narrative wrapped around the so-called thriller is really quite awful.
When was the last time you used the word "lest"....as in "lest we forget something or other"?
The writing is so awkward and heavy handed that I started counting the lests.
This book is being turned into a movie from Tom Ford.
He can probably make something or it as long as the word "lest" is not in the script.
For once I'd say you could skip the book and go straight to film.
I personally have to give this 5* just because. Well actually I'm not sure why. Which is probably why the 5*.Tis a strange book this one - now the movie "Nocturnal Animals" which I simply must watch, its kind of a tale within a tale and is rather strange and melancholy.I shall attempt to gather my thoughts on it and write a fuller review soon.
