https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/599.Sex_Drugs_and_Cocoa_Puffs
There's a telling point when Klosterman is discussing country and alt country music (see "Toby Over Moby") and chastises hipsters for their elitism and fickleness, but simultaneously, Klosterman name drops obscure little bands, and makes sure to let readers know what hallowed and respected hipster singers inhabit his CD shelf ( he has 17 Dylan and Phair albums, to be exact).Actually, there's no shortage of evidence about how hip, cool, and sensitive Kklosterman is.
Klosterman's writing is problematic because many of these essays feel like they were written for a junior composition class (although I have to admit, Klosterman would certainly be a favored student).
I know I'm supposed to be won over by Chuck Klosterman's supposedly keen and cutting insight into pop culture and therefore the modern human experience, but I really just felt like I was at a really dull party and cornered by some annoyingly pseudo-intellectual guy whose sole enjoyment is to contradict and mock anything anyone says just to hear himself talk.
this is exactly the kind of book so-called hipsters cling to, namedrop, and reference when they gather together dressed in their bright eyes t-shirts, black-rimmed glasses, jeans, and chuck taylors.
continue.what initially drove me to read this book was his opening 'essay' in which chuck klosterman refers to coldplay as a facsimile of travis who was a facsimile of early-period radiohead or some other band i don't remember.
boy was i in for some disappointment.instead of some clever or comedic insight, we get pretty some pretty vapid 'analysis' of 'saved by the bell,' pornography, and well, i really don't remember what else (that's the impact this book had on me).
If I met Chuck Klosterman, I would probably end up attempting to pick a fistfight with him.
And I say "probably" because, for all I know, he may be far less infuriating in person than he is in print.A lot of space in this book is aimed at mocking the pretensions of people who, I admit, sound an awful lot like me: decently-educated, irony-clad, pop-culture obsessed twentysomethings who deride popular country music and remember Jessie Spano's dramatic struggle with caffeine addiction.Maybe I'm a little touchy about being mocked.
But back to getting into a fistfight with Chuck Klosterman.
But this is actually okay, because I will never satisfy a woman, either.
If I become marginally famous, I will undoubtedly be interviewed by someone in the media, and the interviewer will inevitably ask, "Fifteen years ago, you wrote that no woman could ever satisfy you.
Now that you've been married for almost five years, are those words still true?" And I will have to say, Oh, God no.
I know it's not my fault.
At the time, I was mildly outraged that my tuition money was supporting this kind of crap; years later, I have come to recall those pseudo-savvy lectures as what I loved about college.
It's also one of the rare books I'm not really sure how to review or even rate.Chuck's essays cover such diverse topics as how the movies and TV are giving people unrealistic expectations about life and love, serial killers, the relationship between Reality Bites and The Empire Strikes Back, and that weird half season of Saved by the Bell that had that leather jacket wearing girl instead of Kelly and Jessie.All of the essays within are peppered with Klosterman's insights and observations.
I liked it but if I was at the same party as Klosterman, I'd probably avoid him and hang out near the food and booze.
as i just said in an email to james:i knocked out sex drugs and cocoa puffs by chuck klosterman in a few hours last night, and i gotta tell you, i fear for the world when i think of how many kids i know list this book or its author as an all-time favorite on facebook. this guy is a turd, and people are clearly confusing his wit with intellect.so yeah.frustratingly surface, misogynistic, hipster cynicism b.s. if you ask me.
I thought, this whole book can't be THAT bad...so I flipped around and read snippets from later chapters to make sure I wasn't selling it short.
Thats the OPPOSITE of creativity." (Chuck Klosterman, pg 14) This is just one of many examples that really pissed me off to the point where I wanted to stop reading...Klosterman just sounds like an over-educated, arrogant Greenwich Villager, with a mind closed so tight he's lacking enough oxygen to think straight.
appeal only to people who were born between certain years (he was born in 1972, and thinks most of today's pop culture only applies to those born between 1970 and 1975).
In fact, I think SBTB was watched by many more viewers in younger generations than his, but it serves to illustrate the point that Klosterman seems to feel that everything in pop culture only applies to his narrow generational window.He writes as if he thinks he so much better than all of these people he makes fun of, and yet he spends his career hyper-evaluating pop culture.
So, in an attempt to mock the professor, I focused my paper on several children's cartoons including, if I remember correctly, "The Smurfs" and "Scooby Doo."This is not much different than what Chuck Klosterman is doing in "Sex, Drugs, and Cocoa Puffs," in which he uses television shows like "Saved By the Bell" and "The Real World" to analyze our culture.
For much of the book, I felt like I was stuck in a dorm room listening to the ramblings of a sociology major who has devoted far too much time to analyzing crappy TV shows, breakfast-cereal commercials, and basketball-team rivalries.
The more I sit here trying to think of things to say, the more my blood pressure skyrockets and I get more and more retroactively angry at the book.At first, I wanted to give this book two stars, because there are a couple of essays in here that felt valid to me, one in particular about how Klosterman thinks we’re all doomed to never really love another human being because the love we’re conditioned to want from watching movies and reading books doesn’t actually exist.
It’s like he’s stuck permanently in his own head, and every bit of pop culture analysis he performs in the book has almost no actual insight into the human condition as most people experience it, because Klosterman is incapable of that sort of thinking.
which scenario would you pick?" (I actually think he did pose this question somewhere in the book...)Anyway...
not for discussing the merits of the book, but because Klosterman's random topics (the true meaning of Saved by the Bell, the weird interest he has in people who have met serial killers and lived, etc.) will hopefully inspire other things we want to talk about in the Table Topics sense of things.My mother tried to make the point that perhaps Klosterman was really intending to inspire conversation with these topics.
Although this was completely unintentional, the last book that I posted a review for was another collection of nonfiction essays - DFW's 'A Supposedly Fun Thing That I Will Never Do Again.' In this book, I found Wallace's voice to be totally endearing in that "insightful genius who is somewhat bumbling but oddly self deprecating" sort of way.
There may be such a thing as being too truthful.Basically I think Klosterman is a tremendous writer with some excellent insights into pop culture and I will most likely pick up another one of his books at some point.
Okay so I get what Klosterman is doing here, and I can see how plenty of people actually like it.
Even when I am reading contemporary fiction which one would pretty much assume would have modern references, it just annoys me when author's mention things like Facebook, or IG, or Twitter, or even things like iPods, Jamba Juice, Beyonce, Twilight, etc.
People don't always like every single thing an adored author writes after all.
I absolutely hated every single minute of this book, and even tho Klosterman's covers can be bright and aesthetically appealing, I will not make the same mistake twice.
While Klosterman may not deserve to be considered a subversive genius, he is a very smart person writing very good analysis of very shallow things, and I love it.
This collection of essays includes a comparison of Pamela Anderson and Marilyn Monroe to examine the way our cultural attitudes toward sex have changed (nothing groundbreaking, but the essay is earnest and respectful, even as it touches on the pornographic), a reflection on the way The Real World has altered how young people see their real-life social groupings, a story of the author's time coaching Little League that made me laugh out loud to the point where I had to stop reading for a while, and more.
He stretches pretty far throughout his essays to make a point that isn't always there, but this one...When he had the audacity to tell me that the Dixie Chicks are more talented and relevant to music than the whole of the grunge era, when he proclaimed that pop country trumps alt country I began wondering where his head was, exactly.
I'm sure I'll finish the book eventually, but I'm wary of it all, now.I was willing to take his hatred of the Lakers with a grain of salt, but when he tries to tell me that the Dixie Chicks are the Van Halen of the next generation...Jesus.
With a disturbingly thorough knowledge of pop culture and an almost effortless ability to spin brilliant prose out of unlikely subject matter, Klosterman attacks every aspect of postmodern America: reality television, the false, unbalanced nature of When Harry Met Sally, and the media, among other seamlessly interwoven topics.
Sex, Drugs, and Cocoa Puffs is ostensibly about entertainment, politics, music journalism, and the reality that is the world we live in.
The focus ultimately lies on the realization Klosterman has, in the moments before he falls asleep: "In and of itself, nothing really matters.
What matters is that nothing is ever 'in and of itself.'
Anything that calls itself a "low culture manifesto" is really one of two things; 1) an emotional teenager trying to write his/her first novel 2) a middle age man trying to remember the carefree days of his youth.The chapters are organized like a "cd mix tape" complete with arbitrary lengths of time. They even included a picture of a cd and jewel case to ingrain it in your brain. I read chapter one, "This is Emo 0:01" and that was too much already.
What a hack. Do you really need 243 pages to deconstruct the "Real World" and Pamela Anderson? Klosterman is the pretentious "indie" guy at the party who is so insecure all he can talk about are his Spin articles that he wrote in 1989. If I met him on the street; I would punch him.
Alas, there's no new ground covered, no obscure music discoveries to be made.
Why the hell am I reading about Moby?
The thing about commercial radio is that it's full of music not worth writing about.
I don't want to read about Saved By the Bell either.
His half-assed, armchair philosopher chin-scratching is almost embarrassing to witness, like listening to a barfly extoll the intellectual virtues of playing KENO.
It feels like a literary impression of Jonathan Lethem's 'The Disappointment Artist' but without any of the rich personal history.
I found myself arguing with Chuck Klosterman a lot as I read these extremely entertaining essays.
really?It was when I got to his essay on journalism that I realized his essays followed the pattern he outlines there - get a starting idea, and build your story from there, without additional quotes or research, because there's no time for it.
And why not, if you can write as humorously as Chuck does about The Real World , ironically hip t-shirts, the popularity of country music, or mix tapes and John Cusack.
Klosterman's essays make funny and relevant points about pop culture and an aging Gen Xer's reflections on how it impacts our lives. The unique thing is that even though he writes about a lot of things that have become cliches to comment on (Star Wars, The Real World, relationships, etc.), he avoids coming across as yet another version of Kevin Smith by noting that they are cliches, and humorously explores why a segment of America became obsessed with them in the first place.
With Internet culture overflowing into the day-to-day life of most Americans, it shouldn't come as a shock to find it reflected in contemporary writing; besides, sometimes a decent blogger is preferable to a boring writer.
The second time around I was very tempted to skim, rather than read, this as well as a couple of sports-oriented essays, but I resisted and persevered (although probably to no benefit).Klosterman manages to amuse at times, given that A) you are aware of at least most of the pop culture references cited and B) you realize that, according to Klosterman's logic at least, there is a 50/50 chance that you won't agree with his opinions.
So let's say I read this 5 years ago (this actually isn't a hypothetical, as I had read this book years ago); I really loved it, as I was just beginning to get swept up in the subject matter of the book (pop culture and making fun of how absurd it is, cool indie bands, general cynicism, stuff like that) and felt that by allowing myself to be emerged in the water of the book that I would ultimately absorb every bit of knowledge and (sort of) wit and it would reflect in my personality.
However, Klosterman essentially reels you in with his lighthearted, self-effacing opener only to assault you with a series of overgeneralized, matter-of-fact (yet largely unsupported) assertions about human behavior in the essays that follow.While several of his essays offer moments of insight and wit, what makes the majority of his analyses of pop-culture and social behavior difficult to digest is the obnoxious (and at times, pseudo-intellectual) tone with which they are delivered.
You sort of get the feeling that his ability to skillfully deconstruct pop-culture has led him to believe that he is an expert in all things American.
a nice little collection of essays covering everything from the Sims, why the Lakers / Celtics conflict can apply to everything in life, the Real World, and Saved by the Bell.
Chuck has a pretty sharp little wit; i definitely snickered through most of the book (which made for some awkward looks on the metro).
i think my only critique would be the novelty of his writing style started to wear off by the end of the book, but overall, a good read.
definitely a fan of the section on why John Cusack's acting career is bad for love, and Chuck's 23 hypothetical questions.
Decent, but you know, overly Precious. The whole time I am reading this I am thinking, "I'd rather be reading 'A Supposedly Fun Thing I'll Never Do Again'. Sigh."
If you must, you may call it jealousy, but there is no getting around the fact that if someone had read my essays during college, and then paid me to keep writing those essays, then I could (would) have been Chuck Klosterman.
Yes indeed; he may be lazy and sloppy, but this is Chuck Klosterman at his best.
about the elevation of pop culture and equalizing it with all of your fancy-pants schooling subject matter?[5] ALSO: Chuck is really at his best when he's writing about sports.
But when a chapter didn't coincide with my interests (e.g. sports, Dixie Chicks, Pamela Anderson), I found Klosterman's arguments transparent, a caveat that he fully acknowledges in an essay with a "formula for being relentlessly dynamic." Subject matter aside, Klosterman heavily relies on digressions and pop culture name dropping:"What in the name of Andrew W.K. is going on?"These references angered me because they serve no purpose to the topic at hand and they unnecessarily date the material.
I'd be lying if I said this book did not absorb me.
The guy is throwing around dubious or outright false premises like a drunkard would swing a two handed sword -- causing damage without really understanding what he's doing, and destroying trees in the process.
I am not sure the author doesn't know this, either.
I am not even sure that he doesn't assume all readers would understand it right away.
This just that kind of book.
Read it to copy some phrases to make conversation with, and to pass the time when in an airport.
