https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/38215.Lovingkindness
I surprised myself once when I took part in a values clarification exercise.
I always thought honesty was my number one value.
I believe very strongly in honesty and integrity but what I realized after completing this values activity was that if push came to shove, I would choose kindness over honesty every time.
The highest value by which I live my life is kindness.
That is not to say, I'm right and if you would choose honesty or any other value that you would be wrong.
Irrespective of your spiritual or philosophical bent, Salzberg makes it clear that starting simply by becoming aware of the ways in which we close ourselves off from metta--whether through pain, or fear, or denial, or simply by living life too quickly to notice--we can greatly improve the quality of our lives.It wasn't by accident that I took this book with me to a metta meditation retreat that I attended recently, and I found it a very useful complement to the work i did there.
Salzberg uses clear language and includes many examples from her own life to illustrate her points, making the concepts she discusses highly relatable and all the more useful for that.
Our fear of intimacy- both with others and with ourselves-creates feelings of pain and longing…The Buddha described the nature of such a spiritual path as ‘the liberation of the heart, which is love.’ Drawing on simple Buddhist teachings, wisdom stories from various traditions, guided meditation practices…the author shows how each of us can cultivate love, compassion, joy, and equanimity- the four “heavenly abodes” of traditional Buddhism.” from book jacket.
I like the guided meditation practices.
“To reteach a thing of its loveliness,” is the essential practice of metta.
The book reminds me how to be compassionate, especially towards those who cause pain.
نثرش ساده س و خیلی سریع خوندنش به پایان میرسه و مثل آثار خوب در این زمینه، بعد از خوندنش حس خوبی رو بهتون میده.
یاد میده که چجوری شاد و مهربان باشین.The Dalai Lama has said: 'My religion is kindness.' If we all adopted such a stance and embodied it in thought and action, inner and outer peace would be immediate, for in reality they are never not present, only obscured, waiting to be dis-covered.
The practice of lovingkindness is, in fact, the ground of mindfulness practice, requiring the same nonjudging, nongrasping, nonrejecting orientation toward the present moment, an orientation that invites and makes room for calmness, clarity of mind and heart, and understanding.
This may be the first book on meditation that serves two very simple purposes in a highly organized fashion: (1) the user's manual, meaning it is very easy to return to it as a reference point for anything you may need; and (2) a coherent argument supporting the wisdom of mudita, metta, the Dharma, etc.
I caught myself resisting donating some books that are dear to me or that I really, truly want to read...at some point.
But I love how vulnerable of a meditation it is, and I enjoy reflecting on what is vulnerable about it.
Salzberg is a queen in the meditation field, and although I own a few of her books, this is the first one I actually read.
This book got LOTS of underlining...so many beautiful concepts about the need to let go of our expectations of others, to be kind to those who frustrate us, love us, annoy us, and everything in between.
Really, the tagline should be: just let others be who they're going to be, and love them anyway.
I'm so glad I finally got around to reading it!
As a relatively inexperienced meditator, I have found this to be a helpful guidebook and will refer to it for exercises. Since this is Buddhism filtered through a Western lens, I sometimes feel like I'm being sort of person who says, "I love the blues. I listen to Eric Clapton and Bonnie Raitt."
This is a classic and a must read for anyone wanting to immerse themselves in the mindfulness genre.
It was interesting to see how the two approaches seem to take paths in opposite directions (different starting points, and different sequence of progress) to get to the same goal.As another reviewer pointed out, the chapter on generosity is especially inspiring, as it provides very concrete examples on things one can do to live better, even without having to go into intense meditation practice.For readers (especially westerners I suppose) new to mediation and Buddhist philosophy, I think this book can be a very good primer on what it is all about.
This was a good exercise in bearing witness to my own judging mind and my uneasy relationship to the more spiritual aspects of meditation.I originally started it before reading Full Catastrophe Living, put it down about 1/3 way through for a few months, and then came back to it as I wrap up my 8-week mindfulness workshop.Whether or not it's a good fit for me, I do think it's interesting to at least have some exposure to the lovingkindness practice while I continue to experiment with making mindfulness and meditation an ongoing part of my life.
While this one does contain some exercises, I found them much easier to understand once I had a little practical meditation experience under my belt.
This one is alternately encouraging and overwhelming, with odd exotic anecdotes. It's all about trying to be a kinder, better person - always a bit of a squirm inducing subject, but definitely worth reading about. I've been meditating regularly for a couple of months now and am hoping to wear some happier ruts in my brain. (August 12, 2006)
This is in the "Insight Meditation" tradition of Buddhism, and is basically about compassion as a path to more happiness in your life.
If you read much of this type of thing, you're going to have a lot of "well, this sounds familiar" moments, and there's nothing wrong with that - they're all going to be dealing with a lot of the same basic teachings.
So I'd give this book four stars ont the basic teachings, since she does a good job of presenting those, but only three on unique contribution - her stories for the most part didn't really contribute much.
Sharon Salzberg has a true gift for putting into words and examples the teachings of the Buddhist path so that it is clear on how they do truly apply to everyday life.
I particularly used this book to help me work through a situation where I was so hurt, angry and betrayed by a family member that I couldn't find the place in my heart to feel love.
I knew it was there, but I just couldn't access it.
Truly, if every human being on earth would read this book and apply the teachings our world would be a very different place.
Given to me By a fellow Mitra, Pat, from Missoula.
This book was so essential in my Dhyanic breakthroughs, via, the Metta Bhavana.
I give it a full 5-STARS (I admit, i am a bit liberal with the stars, i always 'round-up', from 4 1/2 to 5.
But truthfully, If the book is a 3, I will Just stop, Not finish it, and find a 5-STAR book.
My time and my Intentions, are valuable.
My full mindfulness is Priceless.
Only 4 and 5 star books are worthy of my mindfulness!
You might think so.
I think of it as tough Love!
A profound, yet simple book on practicing "metta," or lovingkindness by Sharon Salzberg, the founder of Insight Meditation Society. We can all benefit from the four ideas of lovingkindness, compassion, sympathetic joy, and equanimity, whether or not we choose to meditate. All people deserve our compassionate attention and perhaps those who seem as the least likely candidates, need it the most. The beauty of metta is that as we learn to see ourselves with clarity, we will then move from this center of compassionate acceptance towards truly loving others.
My mother and I are reading this book along with my step-sister. It's sort of a family affair, if you will. I loved this book and plan on rereading it immediately as part of my daily practice. For more:http://satiasreviews.blogspot.com/201...PS: I'll also be rereading Twelve Steps to a Compassionate Life.
I love this book. Picked up at a used bookstore at a difficult time in my life and it gave me so much peace and a more positive outlook - it's one of the few books I would call life changing, and I reread it a while ago (a rare distinction usually reserved for my favorite novels!) I can't wait to read her other books!
Long-winded and vaguely mystical it made my head spin!
Some good moments... but this book took me forever to get through. It was a little too out there (even for me) I would read it before bed to help me fall asleep. Ha!
This book is doing more to spread well-being than the many I'v read thus far. Practicing and teaching metta - lovingkindness - is being of incredibly great benefit. Thank you, Sharon Salzberg!
really good! a bit "colorblind", but overall quite good, particularly the sections on the heavenly abodes.

I have done a few retreats with her; she is a marvelous teacher who has incorporated the dharma deeply into her soul, or so it seems to me, and this natural affinity makes her explanations and examples more cogent than they might be from someone who was speaking more theoretically.The principle underlying lovingkindness (metta in the Pali of the time the teachings were committed to writing) is that we are all interconnected, and therefore any unkindness to others does harm to ourselves.
Salzberg makes clear in this wonderful book that metta is one of the primary ways we can extricate ourselves from this self-destructive pattern of behavior.
and those who win get the hatred, fear and envy of those they've defeated.)- Spend your time with wise and goodhearted people- Spiritual work can never be for ourselves alone, no matter what we believe going into practice- Living by the adage 'ignorance is bliss' actually limits our experience and gives us a false sense of confidence and certainty.
It acknowledges that we have nothing that we can hold on to anyway.- If we truly love ourselves, we would never hurt another (moral conduct as second to generosity in the basis of spiritual practice)- "If at a given time we experience the fruits of a past action, wholesome or unwholesome, our experience is the experience of all beings." - We can craft our lives through the embodiment of lovingkindness, compassion, sympathetic joy, and equanimity."
Reading a few pages often inspires me and changes my mood.The author's meditative Buddhist practice informs her writing."We can travel a long way and do many different things, but our deepest happiness is not born from accumulating new experiences.
True happiness may not be at all far away, but it requires a radical change of view as to where to find it.""The impediments to mudita - judgment, comparing, discriminating, demeaning, envy, avarice, boredom - all are rooted in the binding forces of aversion and attachment.
In my experience, lovingkindness meditation, or metta, is an essential life practice for peacebuilders.
Loving self, friends, acquaintances, enemies - all are difficult.
Thankfully, Salzberg provides very clear explanations for how one can move toward a life marked by greater love and compassion.For Christians and other faith practitioners, metta offers a practical application of the Golden Rule and Jesus' radical teachings on loving enemies.
Instead of jumping straight to loving enemies, Sharon insists that we start with loving ourselves.
Otherwise, true love of enemies is impossible.
I find Sharon's expert guidance through these meditations to be helpful for my own meditation practice.
Lovingkindness: The Revolutionary Art of Happiness was one of those books I had known about for years but just never got around to reading.
In holistic education circles this book was a classic and people held the author Sharon Salzberg in high regard.
Once I started the book I understood why.
There are few books that actually teach the reader how to have compassion and kindness towards ourselves.
She teaches the reader how to extend these concepts to ourselves first, then out to others.
This is one of those beautifully written books I would recommend to everyone who is interested in Buddhist philosophy.
Còn những cụ trong nhóm được giao cho những chậu hoa, nhưng không đòi hỏi cần phải săn sóc chúng, thì chỉ bình thường như những người cùng tuổi về các khía cạnh như tuổi thọ, sức khoẻ, sự tỉnh táo và tính yêu đời.- Nơi nào tình thương trị vì, sẽ không có sự tham muốn quyền lực.
Nhiều khi ta tưởng rằng mình đang có tâm từ đối với một người nào, nhưng thật ra là ta đang có lòng tham ái và dính mắc với người ấy.- Một người bạn đồng sự của tôi, cũng giống như tôi, khi đi hướng dẫn những khoá tu, anh ta vẫn giữ nghi thức đảnh lễ trước bàn Phật khi bước vào thiền đường, trước mỗi buổi ngồi thiền.
Read this for the second time in conjunction with a meditation group I was sitting with for six weeks.
I found bits of wisdom and practical ideas on nearly every page - perhaps more even on the second time around than the first!
I liked the gentle voice the book is written with - reminding readers on every page - we are all able and qualified to bring loving-kindness into the world - and most especially to ourselves.
If you've wanted to start a meditation practice, or are simply interested in being kinder to yourself and to others in the world, this is such a worthwhile read.
I found this book profoundly long-winded. Yes, it was interesting to read Salzberg’s interpretations of some of the ancient texts on the subject, but too much of it felt like padding. Instead of a focused description of how to do loving-kindness meditation, we end up with a rambling presentation of multiple threads that you have to pull together yourself; fine, perhaps, if you are familiar with the practice, but possibly a bit too freeform if you are not. [Full review on my blog]
