https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1327611.Madonna_of_the_Seven_Hills
And thus this first of two books Plaidy wrote about Lucrezia and the rest of the Borgia family is just a giant bit of foreshadowing for the legendary fratricide of Lucrezia's brother Juan/Giovanni by her other brother Cesare.Thus even as it tells the story of Lucrezia's father's elevation from Cardinal Roderigo Borgia to Pope Alexander III despite being the father of three and possibly four illegitimate children by a courtesan, which is a tale quite worthy of a novel in its own right, Madonna of the Seven Hills focuses on perhaps the most famous case of sibling rivalry gone wild since Cain and Abel, except this time, instead of God's favor, the brothers are dueling for that of their own sister and father.*Some later writers (Madonna of the Seven Hills was first published in 1958) might have gone all out for the scandalous, salacious incest plot, but Plaidy, as always, was more interested in who Lucrezia really was and why she would accept and even embrace a situation that most modern women would find intolerable.
Recently, I thought I might revisit Jean Plaidy and found second-hand copies of Madonna of the Seven Hills and Light on Lucrezia on the internet.
The only way I could keep at it was by taking it to work with me where I would read anything as a diversion on a long and boring tram ride.Plaidy’s style transgresses the one important precept of novel writing.
It is a story of power, luxury, murder and heartbreak.Jean Plaidy has written over 100 historical fiction books under several names (many as Jean Holt.) There are the Tudors Saga (11), Stuarts (7), Queens of England (11) and many more.
Madonna of the Seven Hills was first published in 1965 and was republished this year in a two volume book entitled The Borgias.
It also includes Book 2 of the Borgias, entitled Light on Lucrezia, which I look forward to reading.
Her style is light and easy to read, combining a pleasing combination of fact and fiction.
Pengarang menulis dgn lihay nya ttg kelebihan dan kekurangan masing-masing individu yang memiliki peran penting dalam kehidupan awal Lucrezia, walau ada indikasi dari pengarang yang terlihat tidak menyukai Sforza dan Orsini (suami Giulia Farnesse) yang dikatakan sbg pria lemah.Aleksander VI aka Roderigo Borgia, sang kepala keluarga, ambisius luar biasa, sangat sayang pada semua anak-anaknya terutama kesayangannya, Giovanni.
Namun sayang sekali, dia tidak bisa melihat potensi dan bakat masing-masing anak lelakinya terutama Cesare dan Giovanni, yang menjadi "bumerang tragedi" bagi Aleksander karena perselisihan kedua anaknya ini mengakibatkan dia harus kehilangan anak kesayangannya, Giovanni yang dilenyapkan oleh Cesare (yang ini mengingatkan saya pada kisah raja Tang Taizong muda sblm mjd kaisar, yang membunuh kakak dan adiknya, serta meraih tampuk singgasana dari ayahnya).Cesare Borgia, digambarkan berandal yang di saat dewasanya berubah menjadi sosok dominan, dingin dan mematikan, tetapi berdarah panas dan tidak ragu-ragu utk membunuh lawan2nya.
After seeing the show about their family, I wanted to immerse myself in a juicy book about it, especially about Lucrezia, and I believe that's the reason I even reached the end of this book in the first place.I was starved for a story about them, and as any starved person, at first, I devoured what was in front of me without giving it much thought but then, when I slowly became full, I realized how dull it was.
It was insufferable.If you want to read about a badass Lucrezia, then don't even look at this book.
Koliko god bila zanimljiva, ovo je knjiga o Lucreziji i dosadilo mi je čitati pedeset stranica o Giuliji koja ljubuje sa muškarcem koji joj može biti djed!-Sanchia.
Zanimljiv lik, ali je previše stranica zauzela njena jako bitna priča.-Cesare Borgia.
Kad pročitaš nešto takvo dobiješ određenu predstavu kako bi lik trebao biti opisan.
Ali, trebalo je 200 stranica kako bi se došlo do toga.Bilo kako bilo, knjiga nije loša i kad je postala zanimljiva-bam!
Plaidy je jako lukava što je ostavila roman nedovršenim pa sad moram pročitati i drugi dio.
Over 31 novels were written as Victoria Holt and sold over 51 million copies and were gothic romances.
Her 30 romantic tales/ mystery novels written under Eleanor Burford are hard to find.
She spent 15 years in the 50s and 60s writting well researched historical novels numbering about 90.
Her last pseudonym was as Phillppa Carr and the novels took place just before WWII and are narrated by a 'woman of the time" centered around auithentic historical episodes.
I have never read a Plaidy under a 5 due to her ability to make history come aive through her characters.
Raised surrounded by riches in an atmosphere ripe with scandal, Lucrezia Borgia, daughter of Pope Alexander VI, is both the apple of her father's eye and an important pawn in furthering his ambitions.
In the midst of power struggles, bribery and assassinations as well as her older brothers' intense rivalry, her innocence cannot last for very long.The Borgias are a source of endless fascination for many - myself obviously among them.
Jean Plaidy can generally be relied upon for deft characterisations and well-paced plotting that takes historical facts into account and pays little heed to unfounded rumours.
Her characterization of all the characters, but particular Cesare and his relationship with Lucrezia, worked so well to bring them alive and allow us to understand them.
Plaidy's forward note which states "Only by judging the Borgias against their own times can they arouse our sympathy, and only if they arouse our sympathy can they be understood" is incredibly accurate, not just of this novel and the Borgias but of history in general.
If you want a novel that will make sense of the shocking lives of the Borgia's, this is it.
I'm already diving into it's sequel (Light on Lucrezia).
I will say it did take me longer than expected to really get into the book.
I am waiting for the 2nd book is this series to arrive in the mail!
The Borgia family is very interesting!
I read The Borgia Bride a few months ago and wanted to read more.
I enjoyed this version of the Borgias maybe more than Kalogridis' perhaps because it doesn't seem as exaggerated.
It is a quick read which was a nice change of pace for me since lastely it seems as if I have only been reading books that are 500 pages long!
A good story, but drag down but a little too much telling rather than showing. However, I appreciate that Plaidy didn't use a lot of foreshadowing or irony that is all too easy to go overboard on in historical fiction.
Totally addictive thus far. Purchased for my Kindle - but I think this one is certainly a keeper - so I'll be ordering the actual book. Looking forward to the HBO/Showtime series now...Changed this to FIVE stars - and I downloaded the next installment immediately to my Kindle...
Roderigo Borgia, a Spanish Cardinal (who knew he was Spanish and not Italian), had many mistresses but he had a favorite and with her Giovanni, Cesare, Lucretia and Goffredo.
I don’t know that I knew any popes had children that were openly acknowledged, but Alexander VI did.
And after being elected Pope, Alexander was not afraid to use nepotism because the Borgias were going to rule and in order to rule they had to stick together.
Lucretia, not unlike her father and brothers, enjoyed everything that was beautiful and only wanted things to be pleasant.
I’ve always felt I should read Jean Plaidy’s books.
It was only a matter of time.
Last winter, I went slightly wild at the Book Barn and came away with a pile of her novels, which I’m only now starting to tackle.
I chose to begin with the first of her two novels about Lucrezia Borgia, which may have been a mistake, as it hasn’t done much to win me over.
Over-seasoned, two-dimensional and extremely dated, it feels like stepping back in time for all the wrong reasons...For the full review, please see my blog:https://theidlewoman.net/2017/11/21/m...
A late '50s Plaidy when she was producing some of her best historical novels. Lucrezia is the third of the illegitimate children of Cardinal Rodrigo Borgia who later became Pope Alexander VI. In an age of corruption Alexander takes nepotism to a new level, using his children as pawns in his power game. Plaidy portrays Lucrezia not as a scheming poisoner but as a naive, not very bright beauty manipulated by her family. Well paced, this first of 2 novels takes us through Lucrezia's childhood to the start of her second marriage.
This was a good book, but a little sad. It is sad how things turned out with her love affair and that she came to accept it almost as a passing fancy when a child was born from it. One thing that bothered me a little was that everyone seemed to be beautiful or handsome, and I am sure not everyone was so good looking. But I really liked that the book was so historically accurate.
Excellent book and well written. Jean Plaidy was one of the first to write such great historical novels. I really enjoyed this book, I did know about the history before but the book made it feel fresh and new. A fascinating family the Borgia's. If you like historical book you will lo e this.
Plaidy believes Lucrezia Borgia has been given a bad name without historical confirmation. Here she is pictured as an innocent, charming but shallow girl, easily manipulated by the Pope (her father) and her brother Cesare.
As with all Jean Plaidy books a great way to gain a bit of historical knowledge. The detail is enough to visualize the scene without becoming boring. Lucrezia was daughter of Pope Alexander and its very interesting to read about what these high powered people got up to!
Jean Plaidy is my new obsession. How I managed to go this long without discovering her books is beyond me. Especially considering the amount of historical fiction I read. I've already ordered the sequel!
Really enjoyed this book, hope to read more of Jean Plaidy.
Kisah ini merupakan hasil intrepetasi sang penulis, yang berusaha merangkum fakta-fakta sejarah dan menyajikan sebuah drama misteri tentnag salah satu keluarga tertua dan paling berkuasa di Eropa.Roderigo Borgia – Kardinal Agung di Roma, adalah sosok yang tampak lembut, ramah serta baik hati, namun memiliki rasa haus akan kekuasaan yang sangat tinggi, dan ia memiliki otak yang sangat cerdas untuk menyusun sebuah rencana demi mewujudkan cita-citanya : menjadi penguasa dunia melalui Vatikan.
Salah satunya adalah Vannozza Catanei – janda cantik yang dijuluki Madonna dari Seven Hills, berhasil menarik hati sang Kardinal, terutama semenjak ia berhasil melahirkan putra-putra yang menjadi tumpuan cita-cita beliau.
I've never read any of Jean Plaidy's books before and read this because it was nominated by a historical novelists' book group I belong to that focuses on historical novels.
This is not to be dismissive of the book - I enjoyed reading it and found it a real page-turner.
Therefore although it felt historically accurate overall, it struck me that it might be a bit of a whitewash of Lucrezia Borgia.
As a bit of a leftie, I disliked that aspect of the book intensely.
Having said that, I'm glad I read it, and I can completely understand how Jean Plaidy gained such a huge following.
Yes, the scandals and legends are outrageous and practically a parody of our current soap operas, but even the kernel of truth within them point to a time and place where to some extent might did make right and rulers of the various city-states of Italy exercised near totalitarian rule of their territories.
As always, I read this with a slightly feminist bent, as I am always interested in asking of any historical time and place "What were the possibilities for women?
What did a "good" woman look like and a "bad" woman?" and I found this book to provide much interesting food for thought.
Was adultery really so bad if it got your husband, family, and children wealth, status and favor?
What disturbs me most about Madonna of the Seven Hills is that Jean Plaidy bothered listing The Life of Cesare Borgia by Rafael Sabatini in her bibliography.
Two of Plaidy's novels are devoted to Lucrezia Borgia.
It ends with her learning that the father of the child (supposed father, I should say) has been murdered by her family (presumably Cesare) and so has her maid because she knew too much.Obviously, Madonna of the Seven Hills is SO MUCH BETTER than a certain romance novel I read in the summer, The Borgia Bride.
I decided to read this partly because I’d heard/read references to the Borgia family and Lucrezia over the past few months, and partly because I enjoyed Jean Plaidy’s Isabella and Ferdinand trilogy.This book, however, did not prove as engaging as any novel in the aforementioned trilogy.
About halfway into the book the reader is introduced to Sanchia.
Lucrezia’s volatile brother Cesare is a well-drawn character.
He and his charismatic father, Pope Alexander VI, are two of the strongest characters in the book.
Overall this book is worth reading despite being a little flat or slow paced at times.
Alexander soon begins to grow irritated with his daughter's husband, and as he starts to plot how to get rid of his son-in-law, Lucrezia takes refuge in a convent to have peace while she considers her life.
Full of court intrigue, family conflict, and the mysterious power of rich families, this first book of the Borgias got me interested in this ancient family.
The Borgias are a very interesting family this is the first book I have read about them, and I am looking forward to reading the next in this series.
Like most Plaidy books the story starts with Lucrezia's childhood and continues as she grows up.I know it's been said before, but I think it's especially relevant to this story, that the truth is sometimes stranger than fiction.
There is so much that happens to the family throughout the book, that if it were a work of fiction it could be seen as a little over the top.
I realize the book is only based on truth, but reading it you have to wonder how much actually happened and how much is left over from rumors and gossips.
But so far I am shocked by the poor writing and characterization.The book is entirely "told" instead of "shown," breaking the basic rule of writing.
He wanted to tell her of his love and be assured of hers." The author constantly describes the characters' feelings instead of portraying them through behavior.
Lucrezia is entirely defined by her looks, how much she wants to improve her looks, and how much she pleases everyone around her.
It's quite gross.So, I'd guess that most of the other reviews for this book are paid for or done by friends of the author, except that apparently she has sold millions of books.
A great historical fiction novel; fascinating to learn more about the Borgias.
