https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/118041.A_Day_No_Pigs_Would_Die
A Day No Pigs Would Die is a book about a Shaker boy, Robert Peck, growing up in Vermont in a poor family.
He skips school, and while playing hookie, comes upon a neighbor's cow in the woods who is struggling to give birth.
Robert helps the calf be born, but also discovers that the cow is struggling to breathe because of something in its throat, which he manages to remove (turns out to be a goiter), saving its life.
Out of gratitude, the neighbor gives Robert a baby pig, that Robert comes dearly to love.
This book has stayed with me for over 20 years and read it again tonight and cried just as hard as I did when I read it for the first time as a child. It's a horribly sad, yet beautiful story. As an adult, I found the relationships more touching than I did when I read it as a child. The heartbreak was felt, though in different ways. I don't know how old I want my children to be when they read this book, but they will read it one day.
Robert is a young boy who learns the reality of life's hardships - the necessity of doing the hard things, the joys of the little things, the truth about making decisions and becoming a man.
Though I'm female, I could sympathize with Robert's maturing into an adult and coming face to face with the truths that parents so often try to spare us from.
This book is about realizing that your parents don't have it all together, that they are smarter than you realized, that they often do everything they do for you, and that you too will have to make the tough decisions like they have.
I didn't read this book as a young adult, but I recently read it as an old adult. This is one sad story. It could also go on the "I had to face the death of my beloved pet" shelf with Old Yeller and  Where the Red Fern Grows . At least the kids who loved those dogs didn't have to eat them.
I came across this book after doing some research (for my current novel) on junior high required reading lists, and thought I'd try it.
For a more recent coming-of-age book depicting the hardships of ranch life (as well as dads away at war) I'd heartily recommend Heart of a Shepherd, by Rosanne Parry.Please, if we are going to require students to read certain books, let's give them books they can actually relate to, with at least some sensibility into subject matter, and try to instill in them a love of reading - not make them hate it.
I think that is because of the power embedded in the deep emotional moments of his family's life, a life that adheres completely to the Shaker ideal of "no frills." I fully expected this to be a good book, but what I didn't expect was the razor sharpness of the story's humor.
There are some moments of surpassing tenderness; of understated, powerful grief that took me by the throat and wouldn't let go; and of observant wisdom that is so quietly weaved into the story that one can hardly tell it's even there.A Day No Pigs Would Die is a unique book in the truest sense of the word.
Their neighbor, Mr. Tanner tells him at thirteen is when a boy becomes a man, and he yearns for his Father love and guidance, but all he's left with are the lessons he was taught, the Shaker way.Robert-the main character is witty-and also determined-he almost loses his arm in the beginning as he tends to Mr. Tanner's cow that's delivering calves.
You cannot help but fall in love with Robert's honesty and curiousity and also how he observes things around him, it makes you want to read another book in which Robert is the main character.
This was a sweet coming-of-age story about a Shaker boy in Vermont and "his acceptance of faith, death, and the hard work of wresting a life from the land." In the course of a year, the 13-year-old takes onthe role of the man in his family.
Also lots of wisdom: "Never miss a chance to keep your mouth shut." "Why tell people what they don't want to hear?" "A man's worship counts for naught, unless his dog and cat are better for it." One of the funniest accounts was of the Baptists.
According to her, Baptists were a strange lot.
I never thought that this was an appropriate book for young children.It is nice to know that real life is always so sunny and so wonderful.
This book certainly doesn't reflect how wonderful and how perfect life in this country really is.
That said, I will again say that I never thought this was an appropriate book for young children.
This is a book that if I am depressed or upset it really makes me feel better to read it.I think this book is incredibly well written.
Although there are some disturbing scenes, they are not fictional violence, but a part of the life of the time and place.
My book club read this as adults and many of them were more upset at the scenes than the students who read the book.
Sometimes as adults we seem to read more into things than children do.
The only thing they had problems with was "parsing" a sentence.
After explaining that it was like "diagramming" a sentence, they really enjoyed that scene.
I think this is an excellent book and would recommend it as a good read for anyone interested in young adult/children's fiction.
Although overall I enjoyed the book, I felt it would be somewhat challenging for younger readers. Pinky’s rape scene is quite brutal, and although there is some truth to the grotesquerie of animal husbandry- I found it a bit gruesome. Also there is quite a bit of sexism, which I found unpleasant, especially in the assumption that Pinky will be better now that she has been raped. Also the Shaker values are historically inaccurate in many ways rendering the text useless to a history class.
Boy, nothing like starting out a kids book with ripping a goiter out of cow's neck. My reading teacher read this aloud in class. More like A Day No Kids Would Eat. Normally I really enjoy horrifically downbeat "young adult" books from this era, but this book and I never really hit it off. Give me good ol' Robert Cormier or M.E. Kerr anyday.
A crazed man digging up an infant corpse in the middle of a rainy night?Let me quickly unravel what's happened: Sebring's wife is sick, so they hire Haven's young cousin to help around the farm.
The town asks the father to step forward, but no one does.Sebring (who knows how long later) finally feels the guilt, has gone back in the dead of night - so does he really want to make ammends?
My teacher knew me well, and asked me why I had said I wouldn't read it.
After class, I took him to the library, hauled down the "S" volume of the encyclopedia, and opened it to the article about the Shakers.Unlike the "Shaker" family in this book, real Shakers lived (and live) in communal manner, rather like a co-ed monastery...and they D-O N-O-T H-A-V-E S-E-X, much less families!
I asked: "If this author couldn't be bothered to do five minutes' worth of homework before writing this "autobiographical" novel, why should I read it?Other errors include things like dates.
Every page is suffused with wit and charm and glowing with warmth.”–Newsweek“A lovely book.
. Love suffuses every page.”–*The New York Times"With plenty of Yankee common sense and dry wit, and some pathos as the boy at 13 takes on the duties of a man.
* Product Description Originally published in hardcover in 1972, A Day No Pigs Would Die was one of the first young adult books, along with titles like The Outsiders and The Chocolate War. In it, author Robert Newton Peck weaves a story ofa Vermont boyhood that is part fiction, part memoir.
I read this book when I was very young.
This book, Charlotte's Web and Summer of My German Soldier were the first three books I ever read cover to cover.
I never believed that I could read a book all the way to the end until I read this book.
To me, when I was in 4th grade, a book was an intimidating thing.
This book changed my way of thinking towards books.
I discovered that reading was fun and entertaining and that books could be adventures.
This book however is not just for kids.
A quick read but worth every second.
I wasn't sure if I should put this on my "memoirs" shelf as well, as  Robert Peck uses his own name, along with those of his father, mother, etc...
However, it's catagorized as "historical fiction." Any thoughts on this anyone?I haven't read this book since high school and junior high school, but thought I would pick it up again because, well because it's been so long.I found the dialogue in chapter three very similar to  Robert Frost 's poem The Mending Wall Yes, good fences make good neighbors.I also saw a greater love in the father's deer hunt.
I read this novel when I was in my early teens solely because it was banned from the school library.
Nothing made me want to read a book more than when it was banned, so I immediately borrowed a copy from the public library.
I remember that I loved the story, but I could not recall all that much about it.
It is now one of his favorite books.I am a bit perplexed why it was ever banned, as well as why some readers denounce the book because of "animal cruelty." This is a story of life on a Vermont farm in the 1930's.
A great coming of age story about young Rob Peck, a 12-year old kid.
I can imagine why people are criticizing this book - some disturbing scenes involving animal slaughter, 'rape' and what may be perceived as sexism.However, the story is poignant and moving, and seems to convey the realities of a boy on the verge of becoming a man.
Due to sheer chance, Rob gets to own Pinky, a cute little pig who becomes his best friend ever.
From then on, life changes and culminates in Rob's coming of age.Beautifully narrated, this book has me wanting to know more about Rob's struggles on his farm.
Whoa, I'm almost 100% certain that I read this in either the eight or ninth grade, and I loved it then. I'm curious if I'll love it now. Seems like I've been searching for the title of this book for years, and as soon as it popped up in a search, I knew instantly that I'd found it. Funny how that happens, isn't it?:)
It's not the book for me.
I personally feel that the characters were bland.
Bloody cow birth, gruesome pig rape.
*shudder* I remember reading the pig rape part on the bus to school.
Ew. After we finished, we were assigned an essay in which we would have to present things that the main character learned.
Even though I didn't like the book, I had plenty to write in my essay.
I just feel that the story and characters were all over the place and really didn't appeal to me.
This was one of my fifth grade teacher's favorite books, and I can see why. I was more interested in this book when I found out that the whole story is true--sort of an autobiographical account or memoir. I wouldn't recommend this to just anyone because it has a lot of farm terminology, but marrying into a farming family made this book hilarious to me. I can definitely see how it would be a great read for the reluctant readers in rural areas.
A boy becoming a man and the women who help and shape him.Farm life.Tough decisions especially w/living animals.Reminded me the things and chores I had to do on our Family farm in Pennsylvania and Minnesota.Life w/animals and how we butchered, cut wood, milched the cows, baled hay and other farm related work.I felt that I was there, working along side the Peck family on their Vermont farm.
This was a realistic depiction of coming of age on a Shaker farm in Vermont. Peck described all the ins and outs of farm life, and some of it was pretty hard for me to take at times. I'll admit to bawling my eyes out at the ending. This book was very well-written, but I'd have liked one more chapter. We got to see Robert become a man in the eyes of his neighbors. I'd have liked to see his new journey start.
I had to read this in middle school. It was disgusting and disturbing because all I remember is one pig screaming and bleeding as the male mated with her. Sick. I didn't grow up on a farm or ever see animals mating, so I always assumed it was a quiet ordeal. Thanks to this book, I learned that it isn't.
Overall,not a bad book. It is written very well, and is truly brilliant with the content, you just have to read "in between the lines". It is, however, quite sad. It deals with harsh realities of life. Be prepared for some pretty heavy content.
Read this in junior high school, and liked it, that's about all I remember, except for it has one of the most disgusting introductions to a story ever. Almost put me off reading the rest of it. But interesting story about a farm boy in a different time, in a not TOO distant past.
This is a book about how life sucks, and then your pig dies. While Peck's writing is superb (isn't it always?), I found the book so depressing that I still remember where I was wearing and where I was sitting in Ms. Madsen's class when we read the "pig rape" scene.
Not bad, but manipulative and overrated.
I didnt really care for this book. I had to read it in school.
