https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/88612.Growing_Up
I found a paperback edition of this book, yellow with age.
A note from my mother, age 97 and suffering from dementia fell out from between the pages.
She said it was full of charm and humor and recommended it.
Russell Baker had a hardscrabble childhood.
Education was not a family tradition, though Russell's mother always insisted that he "make something of himself." This man was a great storyteller.
He makes ordinary life events seem so intriguing that you can hardly wait to turn the page and see what happens.
Yes, he was charming and funny and self-effacing.
If you are going to write an autobiography, it helps to live through an interesting time.
Russell Baker did.
He was a young man during World War II.
Baker took no interest in the world around him.
He is almost proud of his complete ignorance of Leon Trotsky, a man who shaped the time he was living in.
Today no one will publish you, it seems, unless you have lived an outlandish life.
Despite the maelstrom Russell Baker was born into, he led a mundane existence.
What I view as Growing Up's weakness, critics must view as its strength.
Russell Baker is an everyman.
I read this book in the 10th grade for a school project and fell in love.
Funny, warm, witty--an absolute joy to read.
Russel Baker is best known for writing a column in the NY Times called Poor Russel's Almanac, and Growing Up is a memoir about his own childhood growing up in 1930's America.
He is a real-life Charlie Brown, who looks back upon his own bumblings and foibles with humor and grace.
It is one of my father's favorite books as well, and I feel that pretty much anyone with half a heart will have a good laugh and be touched by his writing.
The memoir, Growing Up written by an outstanding author named Russel Baker, takes the readers to a nostalgic journey of his life as a curious young boy living in the rural Virginia to a determined writer.
Gazing upon his mother, Russel thinks about his parents and children of his own, wondering about his mother’s life and the harsh but blissful childhood filled with passion, hope, and joy.
One of the themes that are indirectly addressed throughout the examination of Russel’s life is the notion of an ideal women.
Mr. Baker's father died in a diabetic coma (before insulin treatments had been developed) when Russell was five years old.
After his father died, his mother took her two oldest children, Russell and his younger sister, Doris, to live with one of her brothers.
They visited with her a time or two, but she lived in another state and her life was quite different from their own.) As the years of the Depression ground on, more and more of his mother's family came to live in the house of her sheltering brother.
Growing Up by Russell BakerAs with many of the books in my “want to read” list I’ve already read this book and because I liked it so much I wanted to be sure to say so in a review.
I always liked his low key manner and humor.
Baker’s mother was a major figure in his life and this story.
What comes to my mind is the time in the air force when he had difficulty learning to fly a plane.
This book is his personal story but in many ways also that of many people of his generation.
I enjoyed all of what I read in this book, but unfortunately, it began moving slower than I needed it to! I didn't finish it even though I read it many years ago in college for a class. I like his humor and honesty, though.
Fabulous, witty, droll, pitch-perfect. A timeless memoir.
Russell Baker begins his memoir with a child's eye-view of a blissful life in the rural mountains (?) of Virginia with his mother, father, an abundance of Baker uncles and a much-loved grandmother .
In later childhood and in adolescence he experienced the Great Depression in Newark NJ and Baltimore, mostly while living amongst some equally interesting maternal uncles.
He speaks of the three strong women who influenced him - strength being not always an entirely positive attribute...I was expecting a lot of humour and there is some (for instance in his portraits of his uncles and in his relation of his own unsuccessful attempts at seduction) but also a good deal that is sad and moving, though unsentimental and clear-eyed.
I first came across an excerpt from this memoir in a seventh grade literature book.
Turns out, that excerpt happens to be one of the most lively sections of the memoir.
Baker's book made its way onto my independent reading list for 9-10th grade students, so I found it at a sale and picked it up to read myself.
It's an "okay" biography and Baker is a pleasant companion, but I wonder how much today's high school students will identify with this boy-to-man equivalent of Wonder Bread.
My students have read The Glass Castle and Angela's Ashes, memoirs that they find easier to stick with and relate to.
All the ingredients are here for a lively, interesting read.
A child growing up during the depression, a family trying to make ends meet.
Besides books, Russell growing up had no particular interests.
So this reads kind of like an episode of Seinfeld.
I won’t say it’s about nothing, but if you expect big cosmic revelations you’re going to be disappointed.As can happen with a book written by a reporter, it reads like a slow news day in summer.
Not a whole lot happens.
Family members drop in and leave.
The family moves.There’s no sense of setting.
Seinfeld was the television show about nothing. This was the book about nothing. With age I have found that I get drowsy reading before bed. This book put me to sleep any old time of day.
This was a decent read but it just didn't grab me. Some sections were more interesting than others notably his frustrating relationship with Mimi. I wanted to kick him in the butt. Make up your mind! She accused him of being a momma's boy and he was. Did he become a successful journalist in spite of or because of his mother harping at him to have some gumption? I don't particularly want to give her credit.
A great biography about an American childhood. I am trying to avoiding writing the words, "hearkens back to a more innocent time," but I've not had enough coffee today to come up with something better. Baker's book Good Times, about his days as a reporter, is also wonderful.
A wonderfully heartwarming personal history. I strongly identified with Russ for a variety of soci-economic reasons, and the book became a welcomed friend that I will miss now that it is finished.
I cannot give this book a rating yet, nor can I say how I felt because this is a book club pick. I will share my opinions and my rating at our next meeting on Feb. 6, 2015!
This is one of the best memoirs I have ever read - a true American experience lived by Mr. Baker as well as my parents.
Besides it being a good biographic account on his life, I think it is a great view to what life was like during the early 20th century in which being a manual laborer blue-collared worker was seen as having a good job and was well respected by the community.
And people who like thinking about that stuff in the blue-collared world are usually ostracized such as Uncle Charlie and even Russel Baker himself.
This is probably where the disdain for higher college education came from, as seen by his paternal grandmother's antagonism to his mother's education and man's educated life, because in this time period the working class blue collared workers earned really good money.
Growing Up. New York : Congdon & Weed : Distributed by St. Martin's Press, ©1982.In order to clearly demonstrate knowledge of domestic events during the Great Depression and understand the effects that World War II had on the home front, teachers and students could go beyond a history book and supplement with first-hand accounts and primary sources.
If an avid reader and history student wanted to learn more about life during the Great Depression or the years leading up to and during World War II from a boy his or her age, then the history teacher could refer him/her to this memoir.
I really enjoy how Russell is able to show how his perspective changes through time and the effect his family had on that during the hard times he group up through. this book is an excellent portrail of why we should want to know where we come from, our parents past.
Awesome, enjoyable read.
and it made it harder to read.
Of course, I am not a big fan of nonfiction books so reading this didn't make me really excited for the story.
so its bad in that way.The book tells a great story about a kid that grew up in the middle of depression in us.
The humor is great but in the middle of the story, and the end is pretty self-explanatory.His biography is a great way to understand how most people lived in the middle of the depression and how things were different from back then to now but there's sometimes he over details some moments.I would recommend this book to people that are interested in us depression and how it changed some people.,but I would not recommend for people that like interesting stories or people that like fast pace story.
I had to read this book for class, and it was okay, but nothing spectacular. Russell Baker has a very captivating writing style that made it easy to read even though I'm not particularly interested in his life-but he made me take interest in his life. I don't really know why anyone would read it, but it's okay as far as autobiographies go.
Excellent memoir of growing up in the depression/pre-WWII era.
A very evocative and heartwarming autobiography by a Pulitzer Prize winning journalist about growing up in the Depression. Great characters. Charlie and Hal - his mother's brothers- made me chuckle.
What I loved most about this book was the honest, humorous tone with which Baker is able to convey his childhood and adolescent memories and dialogues.
It's a coming-of-age memoir, as Baker grows up from child in the Great Depression to a young adult during the war and finally finds love.
His relationship with his mother forms the parameters of his character development.
I'll never forget some of his depictions, especially of death, his mother's lost love during hard times (Olaf) and the late night conversations with of family members (Uncle Harold's preference of storytelling to truth) -- always reminding us that in times of strife, chatting and storytelling are free.
Loved the book!
I will definitely read it again.
I have already earmarked all my favorite passages.
This book talks about a time when life was simpler.
Russell grows up in 1920s/30s America.
He grows up when America is going through the great depression and World War 2.
Tough times to grow up in, but the people in his life prod along with unbeatable optimism and hope for the future.
This book is funny/witty/poignant/memorable/sad/happy all at the same time.
My favorite passage in the book is Russell's fascination on first encountering an indoor toilet.
Good book that gives another view/experience of the Great Depression and World War II that involves one of moving around with his mom and she tries to establish herself after his father's death.
It is a less harsher view of the time period, though still describing issues/problems that occurred during it.
A lesson on the author's writing style would be interesting to do.
Baker writes in a personal, yet relatable manner.
Students can also write about "expectations" that their parents have for them and how they deal with it, or the lack thereof of expectations which influences how they live their life.
A lovely book.
I thoroughly enjoyed every page of this wonderful memoir, from the clashes between Russell Baker's strong-willed mother and grandmother, to the love that sustained him during the depths of the Depression.
Having lived on the Northern Neck of Virginia (where Baker's mother was born and grew up), the upper Shenandoah Valley (where Baker was born and spent his earliest years), and northern New Jersey (where Baker lived from about age 5 to age 14), the book resonated with me.
The hero of the work has to be his mother, a very determined woman, who urged her son to "make something of himself." It was largely due to her love and care that he did.
Memoirs are great leisure reading because, unlike murder mysteries, I don't need to race to the end to find out what happened. There aren't facts that I need to remember. I enjoyed this memoir. Most of the people were good-hearted. Russell Baker's experience growing up in the Depression was actually fairly positive. He said one thing people could afford was talk, and the family sat around the kitchen table and talked and talked and talked. Every home had a dictionary, because words were important.
