https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/216157.The_Delicate_Prey_and_Other_Stories
The delicate prey, Paul BowlesThe Delicate Prey and Other Stories is a collection of 17 stories written by Paul Bowles, first published in 1950.The stories: at paso rojo; pastor dowe at tacaté; call at corazon; under the sky; señor ong and señor ha; the circular valley; the echo; the scorpion; the fourth day out from santa cruz; pages from cold point; you are not i; how many midnights; a thousand days to mokhatar; tea on the mountain; by the water; the delicate prey; a distant episode.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: سیزدهم ماه ژانویه سال 2013 میلادیعنوان: طعمه لذیذ؛ نویسنده: پل بولز (باولز)؛ برگردان: سمانه جعفری؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، روزگار نو، 1391، در 64 ص، شابک: 9786006867069؛ موضوع: داستانهای کوتاه مدرن کلاسیک، از نویسندگان آمریکایی قرن 20 معنوان داستان‌ها: «طعمة لذیذ»، «یک حادثة دور» و «درّه گرد» است.
روزی آن‌ها ...
These stories are creepy in the way that a mother might feel if she had given birth to a monster.
It's just the bit of reality that a story of monsters needs, you know?Okay, I started writing the above review days ago and then I got sick of it.
I guess you don't "know" an author through their writing but the feeling I have about Janes Bowles from what I read about her isn't that.
Monsters know they are monsters and they fear it.I liked every story a lot.
A superb collection of short stories.
I wouldn't call them horror and most are not even of the supernatural but these stories stirred up a definite sense of intrigue, mystery and unease as I read them.
Even 'The Scorpion', a really short story about an old woman who lived in a cave, with a rather abrupt ending, left me with a weird, queasy, indescribable feeling.
I just could not stop reading and whenever I was away from it, I wanted to get back to it as soon as possible.
The stories that stood out the most for me were 'Senor Ong and Senor Ha', 'The Circular Valley' and 'Pages from Cold Point'.
It was in an essay by Gore Vidal that I first encountered the name Paul Bowles many years ago.
At the time I was a teenager working in a small used bookstore where a large portion of my meager earnings wound up going right back to the store for books.
I asked the proprietor of the store if we had any books by Paul Bowles.
At the time I could not understand why anyone would buy a hardcover book when a paperback edition of than same book existed, but since there was no paperback copy of the book in the store I put up the big money ($7.50) to purchase this first edition.
These stories are seriously messed up - rife with ambuscading menace. I was rather indifferent to The Sheltering Sky, but these short stories are some of the best I've read in a long time. I'm thinking I might have to bump TSS - it must be thirteen, fourteen years since I had at 'er - back into the rotation for a reappraisal.
This book doesn't care if you live or die . . .
[...] and some of the things could never have been his if he had not purposely changed to fit them.*He consoled himself by recalling that it is only in each man's own consciousness that the isolation exists; objectively man is always a part of something.*Life is visually too hideous for one to make the attempt to preserve it.*
Bowles' prose is cold and elegant. His themes are disculturation and dislingual anxiety. "A Distant Episode" and "The Scorpion" stand as antitheses to the presumption of the necessity of Western modes of socialization and communication. Horrifying and riveting stuff.
Sparse and sinister tales make-up this collection of Bowle's darker fiction.
Full of quiet menace, each tales paints a different shade of alienation - whether it's in Latin America, Morocco or Manhattan, each exposes individuals on the precipice of some life-changing (life-threatening) moment.
He wisely grazes the surface and leaves much to the imagination, but others (including the brutal 'A Distant Episode') goes for the throat.
From the era of the late 40s, early 50's, Bowles tales are right up there with Daphne Du Maurier's.
Well-to-do tourists be warned next time you try to integrate yourself into a culture that doesn't want to welcome you.
I've long admired the dark novels of Paul Bowles (The Sheltering Sky; Let It Come Down; Up Above the World) and his excellent memoir Without Stopping, but his short stores are utterly strange, illuminated and cruel. They seem to have been written by a man in a fever with ice in his veins. My favorites: "Delicate Prey," "A Distant Episode" and especially the ultra-chilling "Pages from Cold Point."
A few of them blend together in my memory, but the best stories- “Senor Ong and Senor Ha”, “The Circular Valley”, “The Fourth Day out from Santa Cruz”, “Pages from Cold Point”, “By the Water” and “The Delicate Prey”, in my opinion- have a quality about them that’s entirely unique.
Stories like “The Circular Valley”, “The Fourth Day out from Santa Cruz” and “By the Water”, however, seem just about perfect, and stand out in my mind as unlike anything else I’ve read.
Visceral.
"A distant episode" is one of the most scorching stories written by an American(ex-pat or otherwise) in the 20th century...intelligent, visceral, and very scary.(the image of the dog hit with a rock will never...ever leave me.)"Pages from Cold Point" and "Delicate Prey" are also nasty little bundles.
'The Delicate Prey' and 'A Distant Episode' are stunners. Bowles remains one of my top five, all time faves.
They are not tied together in any way other than a general ethos, but they’re clearly from a writer in a certain time/moment in his life as he’s casting his critical eye outward.Perhap Bowles’s journeys across the world affected him or his affect caused him to journey, but he seems like one of those guys who couldn’t put down roots.Here’s some samples:From “a Distant Episode”The September sunsets were at their reddest the week the professor decided to visit Ain Tadouirt, which is in the warm country.
If you have read his novels such as The Sheltering Sky, then you'll know that Bowles is merciless in destroying his characters.
Unlike his novels, these short stories have plenty of things happening, and fast.
You might say that Bowles keeps on writing more of the same, but for some reason, I found it so seductive and sultry, very captivating, and very interesting to see that characters are slowly destroyed one by one, either by their harsh surroundings, or by the native people around them who they don't take the time to take seriously.
Well this is a weird book indeed, not quite what I expected.
But the stories, man are they disturbing.
There's a lot of evil and malice in his characters, and sometimes the story is very uncomfortable.
Others are more nostalgic and leave you a little sad.
There's lots of dispair, so it can get you down if you're not in the right mood.
I normally don't mind sad stories, I can even enjoy them sometimes, but disturbing ones are really not up my alley.
At least not these particular ones.
These are some of the great stories in orientalist literature. The settings are exotic. The characters are sometimes despicable, sometimes heart-wrenchingly misunderstood. Each story is laid out perfectly in time and space, and twists and turns reminiscent of G.G. Marquez’ more mystical works may take you by surprise. I read the 17 stories in no particular order, but might consider a cover-to-cover approach upon rereading.
To be clear, the writing is superb. I gave this book three stars because every story except one made me feel AWFUL. That probably isn't fair to the book, and I do want to encourage others to read it--particularly writers looking for an example of narrative that's exquisitely descriptive without being purple or overly sentimental. But for heaven's sake, don't read it if you're in a dark place.
Incredible, while I was reading this collection I was thinking of other short-story writers and shaking my head a little. I kept thinking, 'This is how short-stories should be written, exactly like this.' The last few stories are not as good as the first dozen, but it doesn't matter, the book is unbelievable, it could now be my favourite collection of short stories.
FrighteningAll of the stories are compelling, sometimes confusing.Paul Bowles is an extraordinary author. His knowledge of the characters cultures iswonderful as well as disturbing.I have read several of his novels and his work is timeless
These are stark, eerie stories, which from one paragraph to the next might bring you from delight to horror.
Bordering on a 4.5. Very good short story collection, some rather nasty characters though.
A few years ago when I took a course on American short stories with the University of California-Berkeley Extension, one short story hit me between the eyes and stopped me cold: “The Distant Episode.” Its writer, whom I hadn’t heard of, was Paul Bowles. That short story is one of 17 in “The Delicate Prey,” a 1950 collection by Bowles of stories written from 1939 to 1949. In rereading 1945’s “The Distant Episode,” I was again struck by its 10 pages of astonishing brutality, taking place in the m
A few years ago when I took a course on American short stories with the University of California-Berkeley Extension, one short story hit me between the eyes and stopped me cold: “The Distant Episode.” Its writer, whom I hadn’t heard of, was Paul Bowles.
“The Distant Episode” stands out in this collection, but there are several other stories that are quite good, almost all of them taking place in warm climes (Mexico, South and Central America, Morocco, etc.) with the themes of the clashing of cultures and the inevitability of misunderstanding between human beings.
Cold, scary, profound.
This is such an interesting collection of stories.
Paul Bowles is one of the most intriguing writers that I have been familiarized with, and each one of these stories are distinct and show Bowles' background as it seems to bleed through in all of them.
No story is dry, and all of them are sure to suck you in!
Read the majority of these in Paul Bowles' complete collected short stories; checked this book out from the library back home so that way I could sneakily say I had "read" the whole thing : ) ...
I freaking love them.
I love how we follow these sick villain freaks around--a rapist, a demon, a murderer-rapist.
Favorites are "The Echo" (would totally teach this in a creative writing class about the value of secrets), "You Are Not I" (totally killer twist), "The Fourth Day Out From Santa Cruz" (this story is really made by the last scene--talk about a way to wrap things up!).
Perhaps there are a handful of short story collections by a single author that stand as marks on the road to perfection; this is one.
It joins Faulkner's "These Thirteen," Hemingway's "The First Forty Nine Stories," Kate Chopin's "The Awakening and Other Stories," and a number of others (the list is not criminally short.)Each story is a master class in how not to write a "then this happened" tale.
It may not even be possible to tell exactly what happens in any given story.
I had taught this in college literature classes for a decade, and I can never feel exactly conclusive about what transpired during or after the story.
Brutal and dark tales that feel almost set in some barbarian fantasy world rather than ours. However it is our world and it shows humans excelling at being horrendous to other humans. Not really my cup of tea but if you want thirty minutes of occasionally violent bleakness then these three stories are very well written ways of taking you there. I would give it 5 stars for the writing but I can't truthfully say that I enjoyed it, though I am sure that others will.
Read so far:At Paso Rojo --Pastor Dowe at Tacate --Call at Corazon --Under the sky --Senor Ong and Senor Ha --2The circular valley --3The echo --The scorpion --The fourth day out from Santa Cruz --Pages from Cold Point --You are not I --How many midnights --A thousand days to Mokhtar --Tea on the mountain --By the water --The delicate prey --3A distant episode--2
Read so far:At Paso Rojo --Pastor Dowe at Tacaté --Call at Corazon --Under the sky --Señor Ong and Señor Ha --2The circular valley --3The echo --The scorpion --The fourth day out from Santa Cruz --Pages from Cold Point --You are not I --How many midnights --A thousand days to Mokhtar --Tea on the mountain --By the water --The delicate prey --3A distant episode--2
