https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/728468.The_Berenstain_Bears_and_the_Sitter
The Berenstain Bears is hit or miss for me. I thought this was a good one. The cubs are really good. Our kids never go to sleep that easy unless they are dead tired. The art is cozy and paints warm pictures in your mind. The parents have a town meeting and a sitter has to be called. The cubs are anxious about it. They end up having a fantastic time.The kids enjoyed this and they love sitters. They wanted to know what was in the bag just like the cubs did.
This may have been my favorite book in the Berenstain Bears series as a kid.
I’m not sure why, but the detailed pictures helped as always I know; it seemed like every time I read the book there was some corner of the pages that I had not discovered before.
If you have any young kids that are nervous about staying home with a sitter for the first few times, or just with a new sitter, this book may calm their nerves a bit.
As always I highly recommend this book and the series as a whole, and hope you will check it out.
When Ma and Pa leave for the night they end up having a lot of fun with the new sitter and they realize that she is just as nice as anyone else, they just had to give her a chance.
We would use this books in our classroom to teach students that they can’t judge a book by its cover and it’s better to give people a chance than not at all.
This would be a great book for the classroom because at the elementary age the students will still be having babysitters coming to their house to watch them.
The Berenstain Bears are some wonderful books.
Children really get into some of their books.
This specific book helps teach children to give a person a chance before shutting them out.
Stan and Jan Berenstain are the creators of the Berenstain Bears series of children's books.
The first Berenstain Bears book, The Big Honey Hunt, was published in 1962.
It quickly became a favorite book for young children that are just learning how to read.
Since then, over 150 Berenstain Bears titles have been published.
Today, the Berenstain Bears are among the most widely recognized and loved characters in the United States.
My son is on a Berenstain Bears kick right now, and I've always loved these books (although I'm not as fond of the newer ones written by the authors' son). Since he'll probably be having his first stranger sitter (unknown until babysitting time) soon, I figured this would be a good read, and he loves it! I love that they mention the cubs' impressions of Mrs. Grizzle before she babysat them and how they worked it out.
Odd that Stan and Jan made a children's book is all about some elderly lady that apparently has issues with controlling her bowel movements, "The Shitter" is about Mama and Papa Bears struggles with finding someone to watch their kids so they settle for someone who has had bathroom issues. I only wonder what Mrs. Grizzle did to earn the title "The Shitter", but I think they should have made a story about that too.
I read so many Berenstain Bears books during elementary school it's ridiculous!I rated every book that I read during childhood 5 stars.Why? Well because that was a time in my life when I loved every single thing I read. And because they bring back fond memories. Ah, the joys of being young!
This book is for students of all ages. It encourages students not to think the worst in situations. Sister and brother bear think they are not going to have a good time with the babysitter because of their misbehaviors in the past. Towards the end of the book they change their mind.
I like this one. It started off casting a dark cloud on the sitter. The sitter seems to have something under her sleeves, as though she’s going to throw the children into an oven and bake a bear cake. Well, this is a baby book after all and we watched too much TV anyway. It was a lovely sit and the bear children loved Mrs Grizzle after all.
This book was a good book for kids because it is many kids can easy relate to the book since most kids have been left with babysitters. Lexile Measures- AD660LGuided Reading- LSix Traits plus One- Presentation and Voice
There are dozens of books that each teach a different lesson through a story about Papa Bear, Mama Bear, Brother Bear, and Sister Bear.
Brother and Sister Bear aren't happy about this because they think Miss.
Grizzle arrives, Brother and Sister Bear are nervous, but their worries are quickly set aside when Miss.
I think this book, along with the rest of the Berenstain Bears books, is great for young readers because it teaches an important lesson in such a simplistic way through an entertaining story about a bear family.
It's a little bit judgmental of people who use babysitters.Mama and Papa get a notice about an important meeting at town hall, but everybody is going to that meeting.
That implies that the person they settle on for the babysitter is not very community conscious.
It seems to have a message, but then loses it.The best part: The book she reads them to put them to sleep is Bears in the Night, another book I've reviewed.
It probably bores them to sleep.Message: Don't be afraid of babysitters?For more children's book reviews, see my website at http://www.drttmk.com.
Since I have always been a fan of The Berenstain Bears collection, I often read these books with the kids that I babysit.
At first, the bears are nervous, but in the end they learn that having a babysitter can be fun and exciting.
I think that this book was a good choice for kids to read or to be read to because it is relatable to kids of many ages that may have babysitters.
I think that these books are exciting and enjoyed by most young readers and would recommend them to students looking for a fun series to read.
This book shows that children usually fear their next door neighbors and in this case the next door neighbor was going to be their baby sitter.
Many children make assumptions that people do not like them like neighbors and other people who are not their parents.
When kids even get their first sitters like me they are scared that these people are evil and out to get them.
This book shows that these assumptions are not true and children should be more open minded.
I would recommend this book for children to not be scared of the doctors that are very vital to our health.
I think these books are really fun because they take bears and bring them to life and show this whole other world that these bears live in.
They make the bears homes and lives similar to peoples lives which I think creates great imagination for children.
I have always really loved this series and they are a huge hit at the daycare I use to work at.
This one was a favorite and I think its because the sitter adds this fun element because she is scary at first but then the bears adore her.
This is also one of my favorite illustrators.
Mama and Papa are going out and need a babysitter to watch Brother and Sister, so they get a gnarled and grizzled (HA!
GET IT) old broad who "lives in the hollow stump at the end of the road" to gather up her ominous drawstring bag and come hang out with their bairns (GET IT AGAIN?!).
Mrs. Grizzle turns out to be lively and cool, though, with all her Tiddly-winks and playing cards, and the book ends sweetly: "The cubs had a number of different sitters from time to time, but Mrs. Grizzle was their favorite--and they were always glad to see her."
The cover on this book is positively sinister. The cubs are going to have a new babysitter - but it's the parents who worry the most as the night progresses. This is another great book in this series, that really deals with how to react when experiencing someone new. I love how the cubs give her an honest chance as their sitter. So far this is one my favorites in the series.
This is a series that I read growing up. I never read this one as a child (at least I do not remember). It is a great book for kids who are scared to have their first sitter. In the book the cubs were afraid she was scary, but they ended up having a great time and she was their favorite sitter. It is adorable and a great lesson for kids.
★★★★The Berenstain Bears and the Sitter by Stan and Jan Berenstain Mama and Papa Bear, have a meeting to go to, so Brother and Sister Bear need a sitter. This will be there first time with a sitter, and they are scared that they won't like her. But as it turns out, everything ends up fine, and they like her.
This is the 7th Berenstain Bears book that I have read. These books are always so beautifully illustrated. This books didn't really have very much flair to it. I mean, it just sort of came and went. The parents went to a town hall meeting and left the kids with the babysitter. They were afraid of the babysitter but she turned out to be nice. THE END.
I don’t remember this one in English, but having read it in Spanish with a young child, I liked how Brother and Sister’s feelings of insecurity and trepidation about a new babysitter are met by a strong, experienced babysitter.
There is a big meeting that all the adults are wanting to go to but no family members are left to look after Brother and Sister Bear. The cubs are very nervous about meeting their new sitter as they have both given her a bit of trouble in the past with their cub games.
When Momma and Papa Bear get a notice about a town meeting they have a hard time finding a babysitter for Brother and Sister Bear. Everyone they know is going to the same meeting. Only Old Mrs. Grizzle seems to be available... and she is not anyone the cubs wish to spend time with.
Dad brought home a few books from the used book store and this was one of them. I liked seeing what Mrs. Grizzle had in her drawstring bag. I'm glad that Dad buys me books I point out from the back cover.
I really really really enjoyed this book when I was little and teaches that you can't judge a book by it's cover! One of my favorite Berenstain Bears books!
OMG Mrs. Grizzle was just the most awesome! Looks all terrifying and scary and then was just heaps of fun :)
"Don't be sad about people that are always mad when you do things."
The Bear family teaches important lessons!!
I love reading the Berenstain Bears books to my children! Each and every one of them sends a positive message.
This made a great impression on my developing mind.
