https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/467969.Fifteen_Rabbits
In the care-laden attitudes into which they unintentionally fell, during that rare pause, was expressed all the century-old sorrow of the perpetually hunted."Fifteen Rabbits by Felix Salten, creator of the beloved Bambi, is not a sweet little story about a bunch of cute bunnies romping in the woods together.
Do not read this story to the little ones before bed!
"They were from two absolutely alien worlds, and there was no bridge from one to the other." Also, the descriptions of the animals, the woods, the meadow, and even the songs of the birds were quite lovely.
Written by the author of 'Bambi' I knew I'd want to read this new edition as soon as I saw it on the shelves at the bookstore.
This had elements of both, although there was very little consistent story about it.
There was just life, not really a story, and all the little random events that make up life.
Probably the strangest thing about this book is how little the rabbits seem to resemble rabbits- they slept in a thicket, not underground, and paired off in twos or threes instead of a warren.
Oh well.A quick read, but not a children's book unless you want to explain the numerous bunny corpses.
I think because I had a lot of other more exciting reading going on and it's a bit depressing.
It was a challenge book, so I'm glad I read it.
Although it is easy reading, the life and death struggle of the rabbits seems very raw.
It is basically the story of a bunch of fictional rabbits, told in a real life setting.
They way they move and eat and sleep and survive are all as real rabbits would do.
I'm sure I will think of this the next time I see a wild rabbit in my yard.
This is a beautiful little book primarily about the first year of life of a few rabbits.
I guess if I counted all the rabbits in the book, I would find there are fifteen.
We see the forest, the changing seasons, and all of the wonders of life, including man, through their eyes.
The rabbits and other animals in the forest talk.
Life in the forest is dangerous, especially for rabbits, and the book deals with death in a sobering way.
Felix Salten wrote one other famous book that we've all heard of - "Bambi - A Life in the Woods." Walt Disney then turned the book into the movie, "Bambi."
It is just the way nature works.I must address the translation.
Also, the deer in the story are referred to as elk, whilst in fact they would be red deer, as Salten would have been writing about European fauna.Both Bambi and Faline get a cameo in the book, which was kind of fun.I feel this story about some rabbits living in a forest throughout the seasons for the first time misses some of the magic of Bambi, but I did enjoy it and I am glad I read it.
It wasn't until I started reading this that I realised it was written by the same man that brought Bambi into the world (I still have the emotional scars from those childhood moments!) and once again Salten is not shy about the realities of the natural world and man's ever increasing impact on it.
The story, of course, starts on a bright carefree summer's day as 15 young rabbits are foraging in an open glade.
That being said, this is still a heart-warming story as friendships are forged and the young bunnies reach adulthood and discover that there is more to life than fear alone.
Read May 2018
Rabbits particularly are at the bottom of the pecking order for they eat no living creature, quite unlike many of their forest companions.
The book follows the lives of two rabbits in their first year of life, struggling to survive amidst all the unknowns that come their way: being prey for other animals, the cruel harshness of winter, and the ever present danger of "He." This is a beautifully written book, as was "Bambi" also by Felix Salten.
The ways in which Mr. Salten describes the difficult passages in the lives of forest animals will bring you joy and sadness at the same time.
A re-read. I've always appreciated Salten's way of making you feel like the animal. He brings the feelings of what it means to be a rabbit in an often harsh world. Salten deals very much in the realities and fears that rabbits are plagued with. His works bring a sense of empathy towards the smaller creatures we may happen across daily.
When I found this book in the community book box on my street, I thought it was a light-hearted children's book about happy bunnies. It is not. Favorite line of dialogue: "'Blood,' piped the weasel, 'blood! Have any of you any idea how delicious it tastes?'"An enjoyable -- and highly quotable -- read.
Very good, I'd like to read the 1930's unrevised version, I only have the 1942 Revised edition. I feel I can detect changes that don't fit the general story, I'll update this when I read the original.
I have a used copy of this book, given to me by my grandfather who passed away in 1992. His name is on a sticker in the inside front cover. Above his name is the statement "THE POETRY OF EARTH IS NEVER DEAD". I cherish this amazing book.
Classic book from the guy who did Bambi. Classic, DEPRESSING AS HELL book from the guy who did Bambi.
