https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22813605-hunger

This is Gay's memoir from the time she was gang raped at twelve-years-old, to her later need to use food to build a fortress around herself, to her more recent life as a woman categorized as the horrendous phrase "super morbidly obese".
It is not a memoir that asks for our pity, or tries to manipulate the reader, it is simply a woman's truth.
She says she prefers "victim" to "survivor" because she has been hurt and has suffered from what happened to her, and she doesn't want to turn into something more empowering than it actually is.
I haven't written this yet but it will be okay. Food is delicious. UPDATE: I have created a Word File entitled Hunger_Book. I have copied and pasted many Tumblr entries into this file along with some ideas as to how to give the book shape. Food is still delicious. UPDATE 2: This book is still in progress so your low ratings are funny. Is this a motivational tool? It's working.
WOW.TW: Rape, anorexia/bulimia, fatphobiaThis doesn’t speak exactly to my experiences—and I wouldn’t expect it to because Roxane and I have very different experiences and personalities—but regardless, this is the most validating book I’ve read to date about being fat.
It might be the only book I’ve read about being heavy that confirms that I can be happy with myself just for me, not only when a guy loves me or if I lose weight.
I’m about to cry typing this just because it feels so goddamn good to read a book from someone who knows.
Roxane wrote this for herself, but it's a book I think everyone should read, regardless of if you can relate to it.
“I do not want pity or appreciation or advice. I am not brave or heroic. I am not strong. I am not special. I am one woman who has experienced something countless women have experienced. I am a victim who survived.”  This is one of the most powerful memoirs I have ever read.  I’ve realized that Roxane Gay is, while not my style as a fiction author, a fantastic author of nonfiction. Her stories are so emotive, so well-conveyed, so horrifying and so real. And most of all, so incredibly well writt
It is insane to me that anyone could read this book and have the immediate reaction “well, she was the one with a trauma-created eating disorder, so obviously she’s choosing not to heal!!” This response is horrifying and displays, in my view, a shocking lack of empathy towards other people.
I hate being this person, but: why are you all like this?I am possibly just as horrified by a comment saying that “she acknowledges she wants to lose weight, but also blames society for treating fat people badly!” So maybe this is a shock to a few of you [I’d hope rather few of you??], but people don’t deserve to be treated as less than human because their bodies don’t look how you think they should.
I finished Hunger five hours ago and still feel such overwhelming gratitude for Roxane Gay's writing; this memoir is my favorite 2017 read by far and one of those rare works that makes me so thankful for my ability to read at all.
And most women know this, that we are supposed to disappear, but it's something that needs to be said, loudly, over and over again, so that we can resist surrendering to what is expected of us."As with all great memoirs, Gay's vulnerability in Hunger makes it a phenomenal, empathy-inspiring read.
I'm reviewing this for another venue, and there's a lot to say, but it is a memorable, often harrowing book that is more stylistically weird than I'd expected. It will stick with me.UPDATE: Review posted here! https://www.guernicamag.com/i-wish-i-...
The pain of this section is palpable, and the level of patience and sensitivity with which Gay approaches this period of her life is astounding.
In the remainder of the book, Gay considers how her weight, race, and gender have affected the ways in which others have perceived and treated her as an adult, while she critiques American culture for having made “the desire for weight loss” a “default feature of womanhood.” A flawless memoir, full of insight and feeling; highly recommended.
I love the 21st century, because books such as this one are being published and their presence in this world make it a better place.
The more we read about abuse, fat-shaming, race and womanhood, the more we understand, sympathize, and begin the process of making sure our friends and family members and children feel loved and protected and respected at all times.
It takes guts - real guts - to let people not just into your world, but also your mind, with no way to predict how people will respond to you, like Roxane Gay did and is doing still.
A nuanced cultural understanding of gender did not exist then - girls were pink and boys were blue and that was that.   Trigger Warning: The book and this review mention rape and obesity.Hunger by Roxane Gay is powerful and heartbreaking, but it’s also honest but bold. It gives us a raw image of what Roxane went through. From her tomboyish looks growing up to her rape, to her obesity, to her struggles of life as she tried fixing this problem she made herself. Roxane is a literary character tha
Roxane reflects a lot of women and men in society today by many ways.
Roxane felt like hiding herself by eating would disguise her in a way where men wouldn’t want her because of how fat she is, how overweight she looks, how her feminine looks are gone and how she can’t do anything because of everything she’s carrying in her body.
People can find this abusive and see it in a way where men and women are harassed mentally because they are being stereotyped and forced to be someone or become something they don’t want to or are uncomfortable with.
People don’t expect the writer who will be speaking at their event to look like me.
They illustrate how little people think of fat people, how they assume we are neither smart nor capable if we have such unruly bodies.I am what Roxane Gay would call “Lane Bryant” overweight.
Roxane Gay speaks of how she denies herself “girly” things like manicures and certain clothes styles, and never expresses her attractions.
I am intensely and constantly preoccupied with my body in the world because I know what people think and what they see when they look at me.
After I was raped.She delves into how this trauma influenced her to hunger for foods My body is a cage.
She describes the searing loneliness she faces during those years, the pain and brokenness, the numb feeling and finding comfort in food.Roxane Gay also highlights the way society treats fat people in such unfair ways.
And sadly she states the hurtful truth that some people still see No matter what I accomplish, I will be fat, first and foremost.This book puts you into the mind and body of someone who has to move in a different way, who has to question and plan out where they are going, someone who doesn't want to gain attention to the public eye but gains it anyway, someone who has faced and lived through sexual assault and the consequences of this.
Written in six parts and 88 chapters that read like vignettes, Hunger is not a conventional memoir.
It’s the best kind of memoir, and will surely linger for a long time after.— Matt Grantfrom The Best Books We Read In June 2017: https://bookriot.com/2017/07/03/riot-...
Almost like prose poetry, Gay opens herself up in a way she never has before, splaying herself open on the page as she tackles issues of the body and sexual violence and self-worth.
This is a book I know I will return to again and again, like self-affirmation.
Like prayer.— Steph Auterifrom The Best Books We Read In April 2017: http://bookriot.com/2017/05/01/riot-r...
According to my electronic dictionary, hunger means a feeling of discomfort or weakness caused by lack of food, coupled with the desire to eat or a strong desire or craving. I must say that Roxane Gay’s memoir Hunger A Memoir of (My) Body was named appropriately. https://browngirlreading.com/2017/08/...
* 3.5 stars rounded up."Something terrible happened."Roxane Gay is a very fine writer and this memoir about living in her extremely overweight body is exceedingly honest...and oh so depressing.
Roxane was gang raped by her young boyfriend and his buddies when she was twelve and she never told anyone, not even her very loving and supportive family.
After that, she started down a path of self-destruction, gaining incredible amounts of weight, and believing she wasn't worthy of being treated well or being loved.
Oh, how I wish she had gotten psychological help or had taken self-defense classes or something pro-active instead of trying to hide away in an increasingly heavy body.
This is an important book, a memoir about one woman's struggle with her weight and beyond that, her place in the world.
This book is more than about food and weight though; it's about the experience of one woman living in and navigating her body through current America.
I think that this memoir is incredibly brave because women have historically been shamed for their sexuality and their bodies, for crimes committed against them, despite the choices they make, despite the attempts they make to keep themselves safe.
Thank you, Roxane Gay, for writing this book.
Hunger: A Memoir Of (My) Body is Roxane Gay's brutally honest, soul bearing account of food, weight, self-image and learning how to feed your hunger while taking care of yourself.Twelve year old Roxane was gang raped by a group of boys and never told anyone.
Her bewildered parents couldn't then understand her sudden path of self-destruction, gaining incredible amounts of weight, and believing she wasn't worthy of being loved.
Those boys robbed her of her daily happiness, her innocence and her spirit.In an unapologetic way she describes her very sad teenage years and then her horrific 20's.
Roxane Gay poured her heart onto the page with this one and dared readers to look away from her pain.
(view spoiler)[This book isn't for the faint of heart since Gay basically is outlining her tumultuous history of being gang-raped at twelve, the subsequent cycle of violence done to her by others and herself, and having in-depth conversations about her sex life and eating habits.
Stay as far as you can get from any discussion of this book because things get really real quick.
I want to give this book so many more than 5 stars. It resonates with me on SO many levels. And all I can think of to say right now is read it. Immediately, if not sooner.
She says her story is not an inspirational one and, truthfully, inspirational is not a word I especially like but I was moved by the mere fact that she survived this event and, eventually, found solace and success in her writing.And although my struggle with weight is different than Gay's, I deeply identified with the rejection of my body, my loss of faith in myself as I gained weight (after having spent most of my life as a thin woman).
It exposes how the world around judges us for our appearance and how limited-and limiting-that judgement is.Gay's book is sad and beautiful.
This is an absolutely phenomenal book, and the best memoir I have ever read.As always, Gay's writing is gorgeous.
The chapters are very short, which gave the book a stream of consciousness feel that I really enjoyed.As for content, in this book Gay examines how she used food and eating to deal with trauma, and her experiences as a fat woman living in and navigating today's society.It's an incredibly vulnerable story.
Gay discusses sexual assault, depression, fat shaming, among other issues.
As a reading, you can sense this.
You can sense that this is truth.
DNF 62% a lot of DNF This Year 💔
I always struggle with reviewing non-fiction, especially memoirs.
This is so personal, raw and honest.
It is emotional and sometimes Gay expresses feelings that may not seem logical, or that we know aren't "correct," but they are her feelings and they are her experiences, even when she herself can look at and acknowledge her biases.
That said, Gay wrote this deftly.
It's conveys a lot of emotion simply.
It was an experience in empathy, in seeing someone else's perspective, in reconsidering the world around us and in going back and considering my own experience with food and hunger and my body.
*3.5 stars*Impactful.I can understand all of the 5-star reviews for this poetically written memoir by influential author, Roxane Gay. She truly is a lovely writer, and the subject matter is, obviously, very difficult to articulate and something that she has been dealing with her whole life.
The author's voice is very pleasant to listen to, but the book seemed extremely repetitive, especially in audio format.
I think if I had read the story in ebook format, it would have been more like reading a book of poetry/memoir fusion, but the listening experience is just a very different animal.
Admittedly, I didn’t go in expecting to like this. The high ratings piqued my interest so I thought I’d see for myself. I should’ve bailed, but didn’t because it’s short (though not short enough). It contradicts and repeats, contradicts and repeats. There was good message buried in the self-loathing, but as a whole, it did not come off as empowering or inspiring, it came off as bitter and self-serving. That’s harsh, but I’m just being honest.
I write these women because I know what it's like to have so much warmth roiling beneath the skin's surface, ready to be found.I am not cold.
I think it allows her to write more personally rather than formally, as books of essays or biographies are traditionally written, and it makes what she has to say about women's bodies, body image, living as "morbidly obese person" in America*, her family, her sex life, her love life, all the more impactful.*She hates that term.
I've always said my favorite thing about Roxane Gay's writing (besides how funny she can be) is how overwhelmingly sane and human she comes across, how reasonable.
I think I got this idea from the episode of This American Life that featured some of the material that later went into this book.
I say this because I kept feeling like I was reading the thoughts of a 25-year-old, but then remembering that the author was much older.
I also went through a period in my early 20s when I read a TON of fat person and formerly fat-person memoirs, and I don't feel like this book has many new things to add to the genre (besides having been written by a respected literary author).
I am of two minds about this book.Firstly, Roxanne Gay's suffering is unimaginable.
What Roxanne experienced, her brutal gang rape, traumatised her, brutalised her, and got her fixated on her BODY.
Too long, TMI, Roxanne exposes EVERYTHING and too much transparency soon begins to overwhelm and numb the reader, and to what purpose?
Structure of book was chaotic and repetitive.
Occurred like the binge eating and vomiting that Gay describes so well.
Her suffering lost poignancy as she wallowed around in it over and over and over.After years of denial and secrecy, feels like she used the book to purge.
I've read other excellent books by women who talk about their own and society's reactions to their large bodies, but Hunger is in its own class -- so smart and real and infinitely nuanced.
I can't think of anything more to say about Hunger other than: read it, listen to it, think about how you feel about your own body, think about how you see and think of others.Well, one more thing...
Earlier this year, I read Gay's short story collection, Difficult Women.
I cannot jump on the bandwagon of this being a wonderful and empowering book.Sorry folks but as Ms Gay continues to blame the world for her unhappiness there is just no chance for peace. I wish her the very best but I would not recommend this to anybody.
This book is inoculated from too much criticism, because it is indeed an act of courage to write a memoir about having been gang-raped at 12 and draw a direct line from that hideous crime, in no way her fault, to her life of shame-eating her way to extreme obesity, which is, we are to understand, also in no way her fault, a point of view that I suspect will still be difficult for many readers to swallow.
Roxane Gay's voice was born and championed via the Internet, which means that a lot of "Hunger" bears the stream-of-consciousness informality of blog entries.
I found Gay using the word "hate" in this way more than a dozen times in "Hunger," and maybe many more (I should have counted them).
