https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12172.Memoirs_of_Hadrian
The thing is that I can’t tell you exactly what that word is, nor what it means.
America is founded on the promise that everyone should be free to not know what this word means, and moreover that its residents should make it a point to laugh at it when they see it.
Or better, it was time to tell the young heirs how to put them back together.But how do you do that?
But most of all, most of all, he needs to know about the man you loved, how you loved him, and for how long- how you thought of him more and more as death came close.
At the age of twenty, Marguerite Yourcenar conceived the idea of writing the life of the Emperor Hadrian.
Finally, in her early 40s, she arrived at a method she could believe in, which she describes as "half history, half magic": she spent several years systematically transforming herself into a vessel for the long-dead Emperor's spirit.
He is candid about his private life, and Yourcenar's description of his tragic liaison with Antinoüs is probably the most impressive achievement of the book.
The relationship, like everything else in the book, is presented entirely within the context of Hadrian's own culture, and I was able to accept it as such.
As Emperor he stopped the expansion of the empire and spent his time shoring up the relationship of Rome with the people of all the nations that composed the Roman Empire.
”I myself had revised its architectural plans, drawn with too little daring by Apollodorus: utilizing the arts of Greece only as ornamentation, like an added luxury, I had gone back for the basic form of the structure to the primitive, fabled times of Rome and to the round temples of ancient Etruria.” Hadrian was enamored with Greece and brought their philosophies and focus on art back to prominence in Roman thought.

This is something extraordinary. If I was told this was the actual memoirs of the emperor, I would have believed it. This is a remarkable book, both for the exquisite and well-crafted writing style, but for the depth and solidity of the research, and how multifaceted and fascinating the character of Hadrian is. It seems I have known him all my life, and I wanted to talk to him about his 'grave Aurelius', only to remember that both have long passed.Recommended for those who love books, and talking to the elderly and listening to their lives.
Through the mists of time, the clouds lift (but only partly, always remain overcast , they never give up their deep secrets), and the myths will continue, such is history, such was the Roman Emperor Hadrian, of the second century, no Julius Caesar but who was?
His cousin Emperor Trajan, many years his senior, later adopts the young man, sent to Rome for an education by his family at 12, with a trusted guardian, the father had just expired at 40.
In Asia Minor, what is now Turkey, meeting a Greek boy Antinous, in Claudiopolis, the Roman province of Bithynia...sent to Rome to receive schooling, this attractive child grows up and becomes the love of Hadrian's life.
The statue of Antinous which Hadrian had placed in the centre of that space was no longer there in Piranesi’s time but it is interesting that among the many possible views of Hadrian’s Villa which Piranesi could have selected, he chose the exact site of the missing statue.
Antinous dominates Piranesi’s work by his absence - just as he dominated Hadrian’s life by his absence, and Yourcenar’s book in turn.It seemed fitting to seek out the missing statue though it’s not been an easy task.
They are our poles, or our antipodes.”Underneath the imposing greatness of the historical figure that Yourcenar pens with unfaltering dexterity, a moribund man exhales his last breath prostrated on his deathbed and confronts his contradictory selves.
Drowned in erotic ambiguity, haunted by idyllic remembrances of platonic love and superfluous infatuation, Hadrian drops the mask of formidable Emperor and shows himself as a vulnerable man plagued by his remorse, aggressive pride and reckless ambition who can’t impede the upcoming dissolution of the world he has so meticulously constructed with obsessive discipline and bloodstained sacrifice.
I should take little comfort in a world without books, but reality is not to be found in them because it is not there whole."Reality may not be found in books, but truth can exist there, in some books.Marguerite Yourcenar imagines the life and perspective of the roman emperor Hadrian, utilizing literally a lifetime of research on her topic.
His musings and recollections made me muse and recollect; reading Hadrian challenge his own perspective made me challenge my own point of view, my own way of living my life.
Memoirs of Hadrian told me fascinating stories and I was duly fascinated - but even more, I came to understand a way of looking at the world, at life, at all of its mysteries.
I didn’t know Marguerite Yourcenar or Grace Frick either.
And now, here I am adding another voice in telling others that no matter how big or small your library is; it is essentially incomplete without Memoirs of Hadrian.
Hadrian was fallible but he knew how to strike that difficult balance between the different philosophies of life.
With mesmerizing writing, exquisite translation and the portrait of a majestic ruler, everything here is much more than what their title suggest- Hadrian was more than an Emperor, Marguerite was more than a writer, Grace was more than a translator and this book, it is much more than a book.
There must be hundreds of statues of Antinous in the world’s museums today, a testament to an emperor’s attempt to cope with a very personal sorrow.
In her notes on the writing of the novel, Yourcenar quotes from Flaubert about the period when Hadrian lived, “Just when the gods had ceased to be, and the Christ had not yet come, there was a unique moment in history, between Cicero and Marcus Aurelius, when man stood alone.” Her Hadrian is a man of that age, not ours.The mood of this book is quiet, thoughtful, and peaceful.
This is a gorgeous book by Marguerite Yourcenar with the emperor writing to future emperor-philosopher Marcus Aurelius about his life and the burdens of leadership.
Its tone is a perfect balance of nostalgia, regret and pride all mixed together.
A true masterpiece that took her ten years to write, it is also very short and a magnificent read.
I found that it was very inspirational and was amazed in how this period of Roman history comes alive under Yourcenar's able pen.
An incredible read!It is rather unfortunate that few current political leaders give off such a breath of humanity and maturity.
This is one of those books you don't so much read as worship at the shrine of.
The novel is in the form of a letter from Hadrian to his adopted grandson Marcus Aurelius.
Hadrian is in his final illness and is looking back over his life.
It is a series of musings, reflections, philosophizing and making comment as Hadrian works through his life.
The desire to count up exactly the riches which each new love brings us, and to see it change, and perhaps watch it grow old, accords ill with multiplicity of conquests.”There are dozens more like that, usually making the book a joy to read, occasionally irritating or provoking.
I am also interested in reading more by Yourcenar, her life was also very interesting.
“But books lie, even those that are most sincere.” It is supposed to be historically most accurate novel - I can’t judge about that but I’m willing to take the word of knowledgeable people on that. What is so far more incredible is the way the author managed to make herself invisible in her work – you know how novels have their authors’ personality in them. You can’t normally come out of a novel without having some idea of author’s personality. Narrators of Proust and Celine look like so much l
Another thing which shadow of death does is that it makes king of one of most powerful empires look so much like an ordinary, powerless man.Not that Hadrian is your regular arrogant kings.
The narrator impresses on reader’s mind an image of wise old man accepting his inevitable death with a confidence of conviction (rather than arrogance of ignorance as is normally the case) and giving his last lesson (in most lyrical language) to his disciple; perhaps with one hand raised to heavens like in ‘Death of Socrates’.(view spoiler)[ (hide spoiler)]I’ve whole pages of quotes from the book.
Her notes on the research and composition at the end are illuminating and tersely eloquent...worth the price of admission in their own respect.It's virtually unknown...a diamond in the rough.
Highly, insistently, awestruck recommendation for this one....this is the kind of book which one wants to speak about at great length but I sense that its power is also the type which absorbs perhaps too deeply for simple summary....Read it and continue to recommend it to your friends.
There is much wisdom here, philosophical speculation, psychological insight, historical grandeur and subtle, eloquent, illuminating prose.
Warrior-peacemaker, austere sensualist, skeptic/cultist, philosopher/mythomane, avid connoisseur of all gods and rites, of humanity’s myriad senses of the sacred, the mobile and various emperor Hadrian, “that man alone and yet closely bound with all being,” is an ideal humanist mouthpiece, Yourcenar his learned animator and prefect of “that imperial guard which poets and humanists mount in relay around any great memory”:I have sometimes thought of constructing a theory of human knowledge which would be based on eroticism, a theory of contact wherein the mysterious value of each being is to offer us just that point of perspective which another world affords.
The isle of Achilles, also the isle of Patroclus, has become a secret abode for him: "I shall doubtless be there at the moment of my death." Hadrian vaguely applies this conclusion drawn from the meditation on his own death to the impending demise of Roman/Greek civilization as well.
At a certain time, a civilization will demand no more refinement or success or life, because it finds itself already belonging more with the dead than with the living.
The statue of Hadrian, the 14th Emperor of the Roman Empire, was brought alive by the French author Marguerite Yourcenar in this novel.
Hadrian was never a conqueror, but rather a strong leader who brought controversial changes to the Roman laws which made life more bearable and humane for the vast empire.By allowing Hadrian to be the protagonist of his own letter to Marcus Aurelius, the long forgotten man was recalled from the dead, his life and history revived.
Like an archaeologist, the author uncovered the relics from the past that was buried deep in the mind of an emperor who thought differently about humanity, leadership and statesmanship.Although this novel was published in 1951, it was already finished in the 1940s and became an instant success.
"Just when the gods had ceased to be, and the Christ had not yet come, there was a unique moment in history, between Cicero and Marcus Aurelius, when man stood alone.” (Gustave Flaubert).Gustave Flaubert’s quote is to some extent the catalyst for Marguerite Yourcenar’s relationship with Hadrian, the Roman emperor who lived from 76 AD to 138 AD – a man she comes to know better than her own father: ‘The facts of my father’s life are less known to me than those of the life of Hadrian.’ (quotes in italic from 'Reflection on the Composition').
This book was a bit like that, except instead of flattering your butt, reading it makes you feel smarter than you probably are.
During the first quarter of reading this, I noticed that I was getting really depressed about my life and lack of accomplishment and just feeling like a total loser all the time, and then I realized why: I was comparing myself to the Roman Emperor Hadrian!
Near the beginning of this book, in one of its many lyrical and precise descriptive passages, Hadrian writes about his intimations of mortality.Comme le voyageur qui navigue entre les îles de l'Archipel voit la buée lumineuse se lever vers le soir, et découvre peu à peu la ligne du rivage, je commence à apercevoir le profil de ma mort.[As the traveller navigating between the islands of the Archipelago sees the luminous mist rise towards the evening, and discovers, little by little, the line of the shore, so I begin to notice the contours of my death.]This passage sets out perfectly both the book's theme – mortality – and its method - a melancholy prose style whose brilliance can sometimes take your breath away.I was hugely impressed by Mémoires d'Hadrien.
Se preferi escrever estas Memórias de Adriano na primeira pessoa foi para dispensar o mais possível qualquer intermediário, ainda que fosse eu própria.
Desde aquele momento nada mais me interessou senão rescrever aquele livro, custasse o que custasse.”Fazer uma reconstituição desta natureza com tão grande distância temporal, exigiu-lhe inúmeras viagens, pesquisas, comparações, conversas com historiadores, médicos, analistas, um trabalho moroso e extenuante com vista a compilar o maior numero possível de factos, e tentar conciliá-los a todos no final, sem demasiados lapsos.A regra do jogo era: ”aprender tudo, ler tudo, informar-se de tudo...”“Fazer o melhor que puder.
Yourcenar, adoptou uma forma muito particular de escrita para este livro.
And thus the world,Remembers as such, as time melds history with embellishment,And those of the past seep into the newfangled forms of the future.You came, you saw, and now you sleep, to be brought forthIn all your good, and all your ill, by minds who see fit to do so.For better or for worse, Hadrian, Publius Aeilus Traianus Hadrianus Augustus,You are known.
دوستانِ گرانقدر، <مارگریت یورسنار> نویسندهٔ فرانسوی، در سالِ 1951 میلادی، این کتاب، یعنی "خاطرات هادریان" یا "خاطراتِ آدرین" را منتشر کردعزیزانم، <هادریان> از سالِ 117 تا 138 میلادی، بر تختِ امپراتوری روم نشست و بر روم و دیگر سرزمینها حکمرانی کرد... حال داستانِ این کتاب، اینگونه آغاز میشود که هادریان در بسترِ بیماری میباشد و در حالِ مرگ است و خاطراتِ خود را برایِ <مارکوس> جوانِ 17ساله که همچون خودِ هادریان، اسپانیایی نژاد است، تعریف میکند... لازم است بگویم این جوانِ 17 ساله، هم
حال داستانِ این کتاب، اینگونه آغاز میشود که هادریان در بسترِ بیماری میباشد و در حالِ مرگ است و خاطراتِ خود را برایِ <مارکوس> جوانِ 17ساله که همچون خودِ هادریان، اسپانیایی نژاد است، تعریف میکند...
او نردبانِ موفقیت و پیشرفت را پله پله بالا رفته است و تقریباً در 20 سالی که بر تختِ امپراتوری تکیه زده است، در سرزمینهایِ دور دست و بخصوص سرزمینهایِ شرقی، به ادارهٔ حکومت پرداخته و یک لحظه نیز، آسوده خاطر نبوده است‎هادریان زمانی امپراتور روم بود که یونانِ باستان، قدرت و تمدنِ پیشرفته اش رو به زوال و نابودی بود و مسیحیت همچون ویروس و بیماریِ خطرناک در آن سرزمین در حالِ شیوع بود‎درکل در این داستان، شما با ضعف و بیماری جسمی و فکری انسان، شهوت، قدرت، مرگ، خودکشی، جنگ، عشق و هوس و ...
But, you know, if he asked, I would make that pained face like I do, pause dramatically, and with a grave “Perhaps it’s not too late” offer him The Memoirs of Hadrian.
In her Reflections following this novel, Marguerite Yourcenar explains, “I fell to making, and then re-making, this portrait of a man who was almost wise.” (emphasis in original).Almost.The lessons are anecdotal.
Or almost wise.----- ----- ----- -----I almost didn’t write this review because I read Kelly’s, which is one of the Great reviews, here or elsewhere -- Memoirs of Hadrian is a meditation of finding a pile of pottery shards and deciding what to do with them.
Exquisite writing, which is beautifully translated and very nicely illustrated. I also loved the author's 'Reflections on the Composition of Memoirs of Hadrian' at the end of the book.Highly recommended.
Ma questa è un'altra storia.Di sicuro, non sarò né la prima né l'ultima a dirvi che quello che ho tra le mani è un libro maestoso.Mi ha fatto rimpiangere di non avere una casa tutta mia, per potermelo godere la sera, seduta in poltrona e sorseggiando un bicchiere di rum.
Se fossi morto a quel momento, di me non sarebbe rimasto null'altro che un nome, tra una serie di alti funzionari, e un'iscrizione in greco in onore dell'arconte di Atene.
Greed and power will no longer interpret the lives of Rome's people.
This is not so much a confession as a gift of an extraordinary man and mind.Yourcenar delivers this threaded biography with fiction in clear and polished prose.
As we move into the battle scenes of the pre-emperor Hadrian's wanderings the camera appears and backs away a moderate distance in this first person account.
Cringe and callous needed to penetrate the celibate style in places where showing them through changes of tone and verbiage heartbeat, though as infrequent as need be, would add a potency, where I might cut my hand turning a page.Beauty can lull if not varied.
This collapse of the social and moral structures may explain why she has chosen as her subject of historical study the life of the Roman emperor Hadrian, and why she considers this man still relevant from a contemporary point of view.
Yourcenar gives credit to the correspondence of Gustave Flaubert for the inspiration to start the novel: "Just when the gods had ceased to be, and the Christ had not yet come, there was a unique moment in history, between Cicero and Marcus Aurelius, when man stood alone." A great part of my life was going to be spent in trying to define, and then to portray, that man existing alone and yet closely bound to all being.

Como diz Marguerite Yourcenar "há livros a que só devemos abalançar-nos depois dos quarenta"; ela para o escrever eu para o LER.
Adriano, doente, ao saber aproximar-se a morte escreve uma carta a Marco Aurélio na qual relata as suas memórias de tempos gloriosos de poder e conquistas; o seu amor imenso pelo belo Antínoo; e, no momento presente, a aceitação da morte que "pode tornar-se objecto de ardor cego, de uma fome como o amor".É, também, a história de todo o ser humano, quer seja imperador ou mendigo; um ser frágil perante o amor, a doença, a morte...Agora, calo-me e deixo a beleza das palavras de:
‘Just when the Gods had ceased to be and the Christ had not yet come, there was a unique moment in history, between Cicero and Marcus Aurelius, when man stood alone’ Flaubert to La Sylphide.This then is the Weltanschauung Yourcenar pays encomium to, panegyrically oded in Memoirs, yet tempered with subdued ‘pragnanz’: Hadrian’s bios is nothing if not temporal Dukkha extrapolated through the measured cadence of a praxeological study of human actions and their consequences, a teological affirmation of the cause-effect modality which seems to have informed Hadrian’s ethos.One of the ‘Five Good Emperors’, (Machiavelli, 1503, who noted all five succeeded as ‘adopted’ sons and seemed to rule more wisely and judiciously than those of ‘royal blood’), Hadrian was a ‘humanist’ and philhellene, interested more in art, architecture, public governance and jurisprudence rather than war, despite his formidable military campaigning.
His comments on astrology delighted me (see later), while his bizarre persecution of the Jews seemed motivated by a distaste for their style of religious devotion.Certainly racism is at play, often in the “some of my best friends are [...]” mode, but Hadrian's apparent disdain for 'Orientals' (there are some particularly unpleasant remarks about a mixed-race Roman) didn't hinder his making peace with the Persians and seeking to serve in their realms, as in his own, the common good.
We are able to read Hadrian's class privilege when he speaks of his efforts for the perceived common good.I have always been friend to astronomers and client to astrologers.
This refers not only to her knowledge of history (in the broad sense), and to her remarkable sense for the granular of "everyday life" -- the sort of thing you'll find in Carcopino or Rostovtzeff -- but even more, at the level of syntax or, rather, in the archaic balance of clauses and in the conceptions contained therein.
Though there are modern elements, obviously, it is clear in every line that this is someone who has read thousands of pages in Greek and Latin.Just a remarkable achievement.And another amazing book that I never would have opened were it not for Goodreads.
This is an unlikely candidate to be on my all-time list of the 5 best books I've ever read.
An "autobiographical" account of a long-dead Roman emperor (not even one of the glamorous, or truly filthy ones), written by a 20th century Frenchwoman - who'd have thunk it?And yet, I beg, I implore you - if you haven't already - buy, steal, or scrounge a copy of this book.
All I know is that I find myself re-reading it every two or three years.
Because each time I learn something more about what it is to be human.
A  sodden  cliché, but I don't know how else to put it.
Este libro es una maldita obra de arte. Debería ser lectura obligatoria para toda aquella persona que quiera ser persona y tb para todo aquel que quiera relacionarse conmigo ^_^. Es maravillosa, culta, refinada, inteligente y para nada pretenciosa. Describe y se deleita en los detalles pero nunca, jamás se hace pesada.La historia del emperador Adriano hecha carta.
Tornar uma vida conhecida, acabada, fixada ( tanto quanto é possível sê-lo) pela História, de forma a abranger num só olhar toda a curva; mais ainda, escolher o momento em que o homem que viveu essa existência a avalia, a examina e chega a ser por um instante capaz de a julgar.
Outro tanto nos é dado a conhecer, apesar de nem tudo o que foi Adriano ser revelado.
Esta é uma obra-mais-que-perfeita de Yourcenar!
I'm going to use this space as a feeble excuse to ponder on writers imagining themselves into the skin of others, in particular whether it is at all possible when that other is from another culture and another time.
It is fashionable, I know, to believe that all writers have a right to write about the lives of other people from other cultures.
I think that the closest a writer can come to achieving it is to observe as closely as possible external behaviour and describe that as well as possible.
We are in the driver's seat of his mind, seeing his thoughts and experiencing the 2nd century Roman world through his eyes.Yourcenar explores the man with subtlety and nuance, exposing a deep and interesting psychological portrait, all the little details add up to create an amazingly intimate experience connecting the reader to this emperor.
I honestly have to suspect Yourcenar went through some of her own serious health issues, because her understanding of this issue, and her exploration of human psychology under health duress is so on point and captures the smallest and most intimate truths of these experiences.
Κάτι που δεν έχω συναντήσει ξανά. Είναι τόσο καλογραμμένο που προς στιγμήν νομίζεις ότι είναι η αυτοβιογραφία του ίδιου του Αδριανού, ενός πολύ ενδιαφέροντος ιστορικού προσώπου. Από τους πιο συμπαθείς αυτοκράτορες, ιστορικά και παγκοσμίως, ένας φιλόσοφος, φιλέλληνας κτλ. Ένα έργο πολύ ώριμο, πρωτότυπο και εντέλει καταπληκτικό. Μετά από κάποιο σημείο είναι λίγο κουραστικό, ίσως επειδή από την πρώτη σελίδα απαιτεί την απόλυτη συγκέντρωση του αναγνώστη. Βέβαια, δεν υπάρχει άλλος τρόπος για να διαβαστεί, ώστε να αποτελέσει μια απόλαυση. Σε καμία περίπτωση δεν επηρεάζει φυσικά την αξία του.
Superb roman de reconstrucție istorică, portretul psihologic al împăratului fiind reconstituit după cărțile pe care le avea în bibliotecă. Remarcabil pentru o autoare este modul deosebit de sensibil cum descrie trăirile homosexuale dintre Hadrian și tânărul bithynian Antinous. O carte deosebit de reușită, iar faptul că traducerea îi aparține eruditului Mihail Gramatopol întregește valoarea ediției Humanitas.
Es una novela histórica que recrea con mucha cercanía y humanidad la vida del famoso emperador. Se disfruta más si se conoce el tiempo histórico en el cual se desarrollo, pero no es imprescindible. Una sabia reflexión sobre los grandes temas de la humanidad.
Se trata de un hombre que leyó, que viajó, que amó y que fue amado, que sufrió y que finalmente, enfermo e intuyendo la cercanía de su muerte, se detiene a examinar y juzgar su propia vida, como nosotros hacemos junto con él al leer este libro.
"Pero de todos modos he llegado a la edad en que la vida, para cualquier hombre, es una derrota aceptada.
Decir que mis días están contados no tiene sentido; así fue siempre; así es para todos.
These are the reflections of a man, who by Yourcenar’s words was “almost wise”.
The novel is written with such specificity, honesty, and sensitivity, that it’s easy to forget you are reading a work of fiction.
As a man, he reflects on his loves, losses, successes and failures.
In these recollections of old age, the novel is inevitably philosophical.
The prose is accomplished, but from reading Manny’s review, I can see just how much is lost in the translation - maybe too much.
