https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9777.The_God_of_Small_Things
To even attempt to summarize the plot would be to take everything away from it because, well, surprise!, the book really is about the Small Things.
And the Really Big Things.On one level the book is about freespirited Ammu, our very own Madame Bovary.
Us and them.At the end of it, what I got from the book (I think) was that though the Really Big Things might be really fucked up, most of the times the Small Things more than make up for it.
Lush, gorgeous prose: reading The God of Small Things is like having your arms and legs tied to a slowly moving, possibly dying horse, and being dragged face-down through the jungle.
Why doesn't Estha talk any more?
Why doesn't Estha talk any more?
As a child, something very bad happened to him as a child.
This is what their garden is like.
Hey, remember Estha, that kid you're wondering about?
Yeah, something definitely happened to him as a kid.
Keep reading, suckers!But I shouldn't say that, because, of course, it turns out you're not a sucker for reading this book, and the joke is on me for ever thinking so in the first place.
And yet I really didn't like it.
The characters she has created are really wonderful, and she has succeeded in evoking all the noises and sights and smells of Kerala, even for someone like me who's never been further east than Poland.
But the further I read into the book, the more strained the language seemed.
I think it's her tendency to put every line in a new paragraph in these sections.
A subtle hand will always serve you better, I think.
In this light, Arundhati Roy brings us her masterful first novel The G-D of Small Things which won the Man Booker Prize in 1997.
Failed at both becoming a nun and winning over her true love in life, Baby Kochamma desires nothing more than to make all those around her miserable, but especially her divorced niece Ammu and two bastard children.
Adding to the prose the tragic tale of twins separated, a woman denied love because he belongs to another untouchable caste, and other characters pining for a life that might have been, Roy has woven together a true gem.
Arundhati Roy - image from Slate This is a wonderful, image-rich novel told over several generations of a family in India.
The central event is the death of a young girl, and how racism, and petty, CYA politics, results in the death of an innocent for a crime that was never committed.
The central character is a girl/woman, a twin, with an almost surreal connection to her other.
Their family life is told.
There is much here on Indian history, the caste system and how that continues to manifest in the modern world.
It won the Booker prize, and is very satisfying.
You, the creator of this life-sized painting of a city and a nation, and all of human civilization in turn.I see You as an iconoclast, persistent in your demand for liberties we are too submissive to dream of acquiring.
The right not to lose, at any cost, one's faith in the goodness in human beings.You are the rebel we never considered becoming.
While You, Ms Roy, take up your pen and fearlessly hail The God of Human Dignity, Empathy and Love - The God of Small Things.So in this space, I thank that God for the Arundhati Roys of the world.
Οι άνθρωποι πιστεύουν ότι ο Θεός είναι κάτι πολύ μεγάλο, έχουν στο μυαλό τους έναν Θεό εξουσιαστή, ενώ ο θεός των μικρών πραγμάτων δεν έχει εξουσία.
Είναι η φύση, η γη, τα καθημερινά πράγματα, όλα αυτά που ενώνονται και συναντούν την Ιστορία».Είμαστε στο χωριό Αγιαμανάμ της Κεράλας στην Ινδία.
Μια Ινδή νεαρή γυναίκα επιστρέφει στο πατρικό της μετά απο έναν αποτυχημένο γάμο μαζί με τα δίδυμα επτάχρονα παιδάκια της.
Επειδή τα εγκατέλειψε ο πατέρας τους, επειδή ως γυναίκα η μητέρα τους δεν αξιώνει τίποτα απο την περιουσία και την συμπόνοια των συγγενών.
Μετά απο πολλά χρόνια και τρομερές ανατροπές της μοίρας, τα δίδυμα συναντούνται ξανά στο παλιό πατρικό.
In the Great Stories you know who lives, who dies, who finds love, who doesn't.
And yet you want to know again."- Arundhati Roy, The God of Small ThingsTiming is everything regarding books, and I have to say that the timing for this book was excellent as it came to me amid my own reflections of the past, my upbringing, and personal history.
I knew I could relate to the depictions of life in the tropics, life in a former British colony with Britishness being seen as central and something to strive towards as well like I'd previously experienced was very much on my mind while reading this.I found this to be a very compelling, beautiful, sad book, with rich imagery.
This is, without a doubt, the single worst book ever written.It makes virtually no sense, jumping from past to present tense so often and without warning that you have no idea whats going on.
The thing that amazes me most though, is that while i am yet to meet a single person that LIKES this book, it makes it onto all the top 100 lists etc.
When their clean, blonde and adorable British cousin Sophie, Chacko and his ex-wife Margaret’s daughter, enters the twins’ lives they sense rather than understand their Smallness in this Big Play of life, where not all children are equal to those who most matter.The glorious river, fecund with fish of bigotry, keeps streaming down to a blind date with History, where two-egg twins sail in the boat of blameless childhood unaware of mankind’s Heart of Darkness and Orangedrinks, Lemonadedrinks evils that prowl these murky waters.
I'm all by myself here, but what the hell.This reads like a graduate writing class exercise blown from 20 pages to 300.
The metaphors, while occasionally fresh and unexpected, are tedious and frequently stand in for something that could be much less complex.
The writing is self-conscious and precious.
There is really no good reason to tell the story in such a disjointed fashion.
Roy's attempts to recreate the way children view the world were cute for about 10 pages, and then became tiresome (there's a reason children don't write novels).
Beautiful insights and revelations are buried beneath so much willful density and elaboration that I was just bored.
There is also Kochu Maria, a house servant, who becomes more like Baby Kochamma's companion in later years.TWINSHIPThe powerful bond of "two-egg" twins is essential to the story: "In those early amorphous years when memory had only just begun...
However, ghosts are everywhere, mainly in the memories of the dead and the ramifications of their deaths, but also in other forms of loss: opportunities, love, names (the twins are without a surname when their parents split) and even the power of speech.
like a quiet thing in socks" and "sometimes the memory of death lives...

(view spoiler)[I knew I had added this book and that it had disappeared from my shelves so I re-added it 11 May. Well now I find in Dropbox.
So how did it disappear?I've never had proof before that I really had added a book that GR removed.
I've had them tell me I must have removed it in error, but so many?
Besides I don't remove books from the bookshelves but only from the review page (this one) so it would be extremely unlikely to be in error.
To say that it changed my life forever is too easy and too simple, for it’s taken me four years to come back to it and realize how pervasively the thematic pulses have suffused by sensibilities, and how differently it could have gone had they not.Rather than spill guts that are still too close for me to speak of in comfortably distanced terms, I will simply say that on the first day of this rereading, I went back after finishing and played video games until I could trust myself with serious mental activity again, for if there's one thing I've learned from 'Infinite Jest' is that, sometimes, thinking your way out of something is the worst decision you could possibly make.
If you've read it you'll know that what she deserves she would deserve only at the hands of a gang of cops, but the way she spends the vast majority of her life, her unbending belief and continued pathetic existence, is actually her just punishment.But by god I wanted to lean into the pages and throttle the hell out of her come the finish.Anyway, yes it really is a magnificent book, fully deserving of all five stars, but while it isn't actually depressing, it is melancholy as hell.Can't say enough about some of the characters because they are painted so richly, the two protagonists especially, but even though the actual events, while brutal, tragic and realistic in their consequences, are important and could very well devastate so many lives as the lives in this book were so devastated, they were hardly `epic` as so many reviewers like to claim.Worse things happen at sea, still.
Other family players include their mother Ammu, their uncle Chacko, great aunt Baby Kochamma; Chacko’s daughter Sophie Mol is much heralded during the book and pivotal, but only plays a small part.
Other important characters include Velutha, an untouchable who works at the family pickle factory.
Recently I’ve read Heart of Darkness and I was hoping I’d seen the last of HoD references for some time; but no.
The setting Ayemenem, becomes a sort of heart of darkness for several characters.
The narrative is grim and tragic, but Roy writes with great style and even humour about profound and important themes.
92. The God of Small Things, Arundhati RoyThe God of Small Things (1997) is the debut novel of Indian writer Arundhati Roy. It is a story about the childhood experiences of fraternal twins whose lives are destroyed by the "Love Laws" that lay down "who should be loved, and how. And how much." The book explores how the small things affect people's behavior and their lives. It won the Booker Prize in 1997.عنوانها: خدای چیزهای کوچک؛ اله بی کسان، نویسنده: آرونداتی روی؛ انتشاراتیها (علم، مس، طنین، رو
نقل از کتاب: «اگر او را لمس می­کرد، نمی­توانست با او حرف بزند، اگر عاشق او می­شد، نمی­توانست برود.
3.5I usually love books that are set in the Indian subcontinent but found this one frustrating to be honest.On the one hand it was a tour de force of sumptuous prose, but on the other I found that the narrative meandered all over the place, making it difficult to for me (with my grasshopper brain) to keep up.Although Roy's writing is kissed by the gods, I'm a great believer in a story's need to flow and my early enthusiasm became steadily dampened as the book progressed.
There is a lot of beautiful writing in this novel, but the rambling fashion in which this story is told makes it difficult to keep the characters and their timelines straight—we jump back and forth in time for no reason that I can see.
For example, Ammu’s parents think education is wasted on a girl, so she marries the first man she meets after only knowing him a few days.
The fact that a male, Estha, likes to cook and clean up after himself and serve himself seconds rather than getting a female to do work for him is frowned upon.
Rahel and Estha, the main characters, are twins who are always getting into some kind of trouble with their mom, Ammu.
It tells about how their life is in India, and how their government and their society work.
They own a Pickle factory so Rahel and Estha's family is known as a "touchable" family.
This story tells about how they grow up with the problems that they had when they were little, like when one of the characters gets sexually abused, he has to deal with it his whole life, and it tells about his struggle.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ “Anything’s possible in Human Nature.” Good morning Goodreaders! Please be forewarned: If you aren’t familiar with me and are here because this (1) randomly showed up on your feed due to a mutual acquaintance we share or (2) because you are expecting a super smart opinion piece on a modern classic, I have one thing to say to you . . . . . In case the .gif didn’t clue you in, I’m not going to offer any sort of literary insight in this
For the three of you who are, you’re probably actual friends of mine and are asking “how the hell did this get on her TBR?” or “she does know this isn’t a porno or a young adult selection, right?” Amazingly, the answer is YES I do know things – even that this won the Booker Prize .
The “pushing your shelf” means you’re supposed to read something that takes you out of your comfort zone – which I didn’t think was possible since, you know, I live with Mitchell.
It takes nearly the remainder of the book to circle back around in order to fill in the details regarding these events.
The question:Can I forgive a book for a painful read if it pays off in the end?My fiancé gifted Arundhati Roy’s The God of Small Things to me for Christmas because: a) It was a Booker Prize Winnerb) It was written by an international authorc) She read reviews that both praised and bemoaned this bookShe knows me well!
Of course, it also makes for an exhausting read.I’m sure reader opinion will vary on this one since appreciation of style is such a subjective matter, but Roy’s prose both works for and against her.
مأساة تسجلها الفتاة عن تؤمين انفصالا، ثم يبدأ عمل شريط أحداث في الاسترجاع بأسلوب جميل راق لي كثيراً وهو ما أصبحنا نقوله بإختصار الفلاش باك .
وفي الرواية الكثير من المحرمات الاجتماعية التي تكثر في المجتمعات الآسيوية لكن ذكوها راق لي وكأنني مجرد قارئ يتفاعل مع هذه التجاوزات.
ثمة تمازج جميل بين الطبيعية الأمريكية والهندية حيث قاعدة أحداث الرواية.
رواية تؤرخ لتاريخ عائلة في تفاصيل صغيرة جداً بيت التجربة والحزن والذكريات المنتشرة في سياق الرواية بكثرة.
سيجدها مختلفة جداً عن القراءة الأولى .
To a better, happier place.Arundhati Roy (1951- )It’s been twenty years since the book was published.
It changed the author’s life.
It may have changed some readers’ lives also.
Who can tell?I don’t care to try to actually review the book.
The climax of the tale occurs over a day and night – or night and day more accurately.Yet the novel, not particularly long, approaches the telling of this intensely human story in a roundabout way, weaving back and forth from before the main events, to many years after, slowly getting ever closer to the crescendo, slowly revealing more details.
Unremembered."" 'D'you know what happens when you hurt people?' Ammu said.
They make people love you a little less.'""And the Air was full of Thoughts and Things to Say. But at times like these, only the Small Things are ever said.
The Big Things lurk unsaid inside.""If you're happy in a dream, Ammu, does that count?""The Great Stories are the ones you have heard and want to hear again.
In the way that although you know that one day you will die, you live as though you won't.
In the Great Storis you know who lives, who dies, who finds love, who doesn't.
I'm drowning in feelings. Pappachi's moth is on my heart. Review to come.
But...It's hard to say this, to just out-and-mention this: THE GOD OF SMALL THINGS is unbelievably pretentious.
Taking strands of quasi intelligent statements and repeating them throughout the twisty plot, again with a furious intensity, as loud as a cascade...
It is semi-tolerable to read, the writer is just too clever to be confined to the parameters of her story--and therefore the case here is that of the writer selling out, making the plot itself (which I wont tire to say--ain't half bad [at least, the family curse plot is richer, more dramatic and heartfelt, than that of the Southern clan of Faulkner's classic]) take a backseat to annoying "writerly" acrobatics.
The story takes a very dangerous turn when Ammu falls in love with a lower caste man 'Velutha.' Such a transgression brings disaster in their lives.
The twins Rahel and Estha are separated, Velutha is tortured to death in police custody for loving an upper caste woman, and Ammu's reputation further goes down the drain and she dies an anonymous death in a cheap lodge.What is so remarkable about this book is how it is structured, how it is told.
So we need writers like her; and we need stories that connect, that make us see how things are.
I cannot write a critical review of this book.
There's something about Indian writing that leaves me overwhelmed and unsettled.
Writers such as Arundhati Roy herself do not just write words; they imprint those words deep within you so that you can hear their echoes resonate inside you every once in a while.
These writers have a poetic tendency that always manages to creep in their prose.
They know what it's like to be Indian - it can be a sad, sad thing.
I loved this book.
I'm certain I will love it more the next time I read it.
