https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/525678.The_Moonstone_Castle_Mystery
There's nothing like a Nancy Drew book to pick up your spirits. Who wouldn't love to stay for several weeks at a charming hotel, zip around the countryside in a convertible, and explore spooky old castles while wearing a dress and heels. Now, that's my idea of a good time.
And I like the subtle method Nancy and the Boys intersect, more on that in another Hardy Boys book review.PLOT=3: Something odd is going on at the titular Moonstone Castle in a small town, Deep River, nearby.
And there could be a ring of thieves hiding out in plain sight of Deep River citizens.CHARACTERS/PEOPLE=3: Nancy's attitude, as are Bess's and George's, is always pleasant, kind, and very curious.
The girls meet boys (natch!) at the hotel pool, play tennis, go to picnics...and get into all kinds of trouble in the mysterious Moonstone Castle.
This was a really great book that adds to the greatness of the Nancy Drew mystery book series.
The girls and their boy friends go on a boat ride: yes.
Boat crashes: yes; twice.
Their conversation literally goes like this:Burt says: We are renting a boat called the Sea WitchDave says: Which witch?Burt pretends to throw Dave into the river.
Which is worse?(Which witch??!!)(Author is thrown into the river.)We also come across a chapter helpfully titled "BATS!" I'll leave future readers to guess what our intrepid heroines encounter here.AND, never forget the most important part of any Nancy book!
No matter what town or city they visit, they ALWAYS find a nice tearoom for luncheon.These books are just the best!
Este es el único volumen de la numerosísima saga de Nancy Drew que tuve la oportunidad de leer en mi infancia.
Fue una saludable y entretenida alternativa a los "Elige tu propia aventura", que ya me resultaban fastidiosos.Tengo que ponerle cuatro estrellitas...
Tres sería poco fiel a lo que lo disfruté en su momento, si bien cuatro es un poco excesivo.
De cualquier forma, le debo el haberme inspirado a seguir indagando en el género y eso no es poco.La idea de la adolescente Nancy viajando en su convertible junto con sus amigas y cruzándose (casi ominosamente) con misterios para resolver en cada vuelta de esquina, es simplemente adorable.
Claro, todo esto sin perder ni una pizca de glamour, y siempre en high heels!
I took a walk down memory lane and reread one of my favorite Nancy Drew books. Some of the writing is a bit old fashioned, but it is a great story. I still would like to be like Nancy and zip around in a convertible and stay at different places.
Read this in an hour.
Charming and soothing - classic Nancy Drew
Not up to par with the rest of the series.
Secrets, a captive, and much more will keep readers curious to see how the whole story unfolds. I thought that this book was one of my more favorite books in the Nancy Drew series.
Nancy works closely with the local police.These are elements found in various other stories.The basic concept of the book is that a group of crooks is trying to steal inheritance money and other money from older people.
Nancy, Bess and George set out to investigate, their investigation dovetailing with something Mr. Drew is working on.They find an old castle-like structure complete with a water-filled moat and a drawbridge.
It's a somewhat complicated set of things that happen but Nancy, as always, is able to make sense out of clue chaos and bring the crooks to justice.A typically interesting story.
Haha, not so much terrible in a bad way, but just as an example, there is a picture of Nancy & George swimming in the moat with their purses!
But just as I sink into a good J.D. Robb "in death" book or a Nora Roberts romance these days, reading about the same characters doing the same sorts of things again and again feels like coming home.
You don't have to think too hard and feel like these familiar characters are friends.
As formulaic as it is, it can be a soothing read and something I thougoughly enjoyed back in the day.Good 'ole Nancy Drew
Overall, this was an enjoyable book.
There were bits of humor and it was a very well thought out mystery on Carolyn Keene's part.
Keene lacked her usually effective writing, which resulting in the book being a bit dull.
The mystery was so creative and is capable of being great and suspenseful.
Unfortunately, this book did not do the mystery justice.
Nancy was sent a mysterious item from an unknown person.
However, you are going to have to be patient while reading it, because it takes the book a while to start gaining suspense.
A child disappears 15 years earlier without claiming an inheritance, and Nancy (well, actually Carson but he pawns his work off on her) and the girls have to track her down.
In this one book, it is expressly stated that Carson Drew picks up all the expenses of the girls' trip.A ring of people swindles old ladies and gets them to write checks and securities to these people.
No one is directly killed by them though, and I've realized that no one has ever directly been responsible for murder in any of Nancy's cases.
No major characters lose consciousness but Nancy gets rendered semi-anesthetized by a vial of liquid in some guy's pocket.
A little girl disapered and a 21 year old pretended to be her and got her inheritance.
Nancy Drew finds out about the man who settled the estate, and he beggins to worry.
He takes them on a boat ride, but then has to be taken to the hospital.
At the moonstone castle, Nancy finds a man and takes him to jail.
He confesses that he had helped kiddnap the man.
The Servants who kiddnaped little Joanie Horton are captured.
The real JOanie Horton, now Jody Armstrong, knew nothing about all this.
Will she get the inheritance back?
Nancy mysteriously receives a Moonstone from an anonymous sender and is soon after roped into the mystery of the Bowens, a missionary couple who are searching for their long lost granddaughter who hasn't been seen in years.
Nancy heads to the town where the little girl was last known to be and soon discovers that a woman who pretended to be the granddaughter may have made off with the girl's inheritance from her dead grandmother, but what happened to the little girl?
Nancy discovers there may be a connection with the old abandoned Moonstone Castle, but how will this help her solve her mystery?
I remember the first time I read Nancy Drew.
It blew my mind that there were girls presented with a brain.
Most of the stuff I'd read up to that time, was that girls were sugar and spice - fluffy.
No brains.
To also learn about George who is a tomboy was a nice validation.
Carolyn Keene wrote just for me!
That is how I felt.
When I did more research, I was shocked to find out, Ms. Keene was actually a man ...
I also loved the Hardy Boys.
No wonder I loved these series.Great for girls aged 8 and up.
I won't try to pretend that the books in this series are particularly profound in any way, but I will admit that I do enjoy this series when I'm feeling sick or lazy, or when I just want to lie outside in the hammock all day.
This book was a fun, easy read with good action and an interesting mystery.
Nancy, George, and Bess are searching for a missing girl, who is supposed to inherit money from her dead grandparents' estate.
The conclusion to the mystery was rather surprising, as some of the people who were involved(I won't spoil it!) weren't who I expected.
This is one of my favourite childhood books. I really enjoyed it as a kid. The best part about this and other nancy drew books was that apart from the mystery story these books also provided some interesting facts /trivia about the country or culture in which the story was set. I still remember how I loved imagining about hawaiin islands or a japanese wedding or an african excavation while lying down on my cot and reading . I really believe that these are good books to introduce to a kid in the begginning of their reading experience
I felt like the author(s) were a bit lazy in this episode. Nancy, Bess, and George blundered around the town of Deep River for about 18 chapters without making much progress, then BAM! A character whom we've never heard of before appears in the last couple of chapters and explains everything, like a deus ex machina. Not fair to the readers who like to follow the clues as revealed in the story.
A very enjoyable mystery! I enjoyed the sleuthing at the old castle and the story was quite smooth. Although, the mystery became pretty predictable about halfway through and there were some coincidences that helped Nancy solve the mystery(which is usual in these older ND books) But overall, I very enjoyed this mystery and the setting. 4 stars.
When Nancy recieves a valuble moonstone as a gift from an unknown person, sh is amazed and puzzled. But it is only the first of several startling events in this complex mystery that challenge the ingenuity of the pretty sleuth.
I felt like this one did not have a very satisfactory ending. Things were tied up too quickly. But I do love losing myself in a Nancy Drew book where times were very very different. And I think this was the first one where it actually said in words that Ned kissed Nancy!
One of Carolyn Keene's best works in her Nancy Drew series. I felt as if I was joining Nancy, George, and Bess as they tried to find the missing girl and solve the moonstone mystery. Very exciting and fast-paced!
A really good Nancy Drew story but i think the ending in this one was a little rushed as small details like who kept the moonstone mentioned in the title at the end of the story.Very fast paced through out tho.
Nancy Drew was my third childhood hero (behind Robin Hood and Sacagawea.) As I run across old hard cover Nancy Drew books at garage sale or thrift shops I pick them up. This one was pretty run of the mill Nancy Drew.
You just can't go wrong with a Nancy Drew mystery on a cold, winter day. My favourite Nancy Drew books are ones with old mansions, draughty castles, and labyrinthine tunnels. So this one was a great read.
great book
I loved this book when I first read it. I'm not sure why, but to a 7 year old it was the best
Lost this book many years ago while on a trip with my mom. I was gifted a new copy for my birthday by my wonderful boyfriend and now I FINALLY know who did it! :)
