https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/114282.The_Littlest_Angel
Clearly, the lesson about the gift of the Littlest Angel is also timeless.I just read it tonight to my son and it occurs to me that this book is a clear example of the "dumbing down" of children and our/societies lowered expectations of young children.
The vocabulary alone shows that the author knew children didn't have to know or be able to actually read every single word in a book.
That a "children's book" could be written with the expectation that an adult would read it aloud.
Perhaps, children "back then" didn't get quite as frustrated and give up when encountering a big, unknown word.
My mom bought it one Christmas when I was a teenager, and since then has purchased it for each of my siblings and their families.
I loved the story as a youth and still to this day feel the same about it.
So, not only was it a tradition when I was a teenager and still living at home with my parents, but it has carried on to be a tradition to read Christmas Eve with my husband and daughters.We love it and no Christmas Eve is complete without having my daughters ask, "When is it time to read 'The Littlest Angel?'" The illustrations are absolutely stunning and draw my eyes in every time.
Sweet and tender story.Happy Reading!!!
The story was all at once too old for young children and too young for adults. There was something about the illustrations I didn't particularly care for, but it's hard for me to put my finger on what. The part about the little boy's wooden box of treasures that he presents for the Christ child was the only part of the book that I really enjoyed.But, to be fair, I read three stories to one of my daughters tonight (this being one of them). She chose this story as her favorite.
In fact, my grandmother just gave my daughter her copy of the book, which had been given to her by my late aunt.
It perpetuates the old folk theology of angels being human beings who died and went to heaven, and idea completely at odds with the Biblical picture of angels.
There's very little that I can actually recommend about this book: it's sentimental, syrupy, completely flawed, folk theology, presented as an inspirational tale for children.
I probably will not read it to my daughter again, and if she discovers it on her own, I will do my best to teach her how fundamentally flawed the story is.
This is an adorable Christmas story about a little child angel who is always getting into trouble, but who gives what he prizes most in the world to the Christ child. He is then ebarassed to have given something that most people would find useless and offensive. But, his gift is the one that is accepted and is used to create the star to lead others to the babe in Bethlehem. So sweet.
I love this story! I was, however, not a fan of the illustrations. They just didn't seem to fit my imagination's view of the tale although others will probably feel differently. Still, this is a beautiful tale not to be missed! :-)
Beautiful and charming. I can see why it's a classic!
My favorite Christmas story since I was a tiny girl T Christmas.
Beautiful book about a sad little angel. He's too young and bored with Heaven. Gets his box from Earth and is happy. Jesus to be born, everyone giving gifts. Angel gives contents of his box. God is pleased, likes it best b/c the things are from Earth, which is where his son is to be born. Turns the box into a star that shows the way to Jesus.
From where I sit, however, George Bailey's nemesis Mr. Potter would have been right to lump this story with the motivations for the Bailey Building and Loan as "sentimental hogwash."Tazewell has good things to say about gift-giving, and few children are likely to be offended by an angel who seems so much like one of them, but therein lies one big problem with the book: it pushes the unfortunate and unscriptural idea that angels are or were once humans.
Having established that the "littlest angel" is basically a toddler with wings, Tazewell then suggests that he is bored in heaven.
Henry's "Gift of the Magi" instead.
Additionally, the illustrations of Sergio Leone fit the story perfectly and with rare beauty.
What I take from this classic story most of all is not just that one can present oneself to Jesus without shame, despite one's own imperfections and simplicity and ordinary facade, but that the sacrifices and love and hopes and dreams and feelings of the very small and young matter greatly, and should not dare be ignored or belittled by anyone else.
What is important to a four-year-old does not some day become of no importance if others (or even they, themselves) forget how significant it is.
This is another one of my favorite Christmas books.
This sweet little boy has passed away on earth and is now an angel, and is having a hard time doing all the things angels are supposed to do - he would much rather run and play.
Finally he is allowed to go back and retrieve a box of special mementos from his home on earth.
As Christ is about to leave heaven and be born on earth, the angels begin to present him with gifts, and the one that is chosen as His favorite is perhaps not what one would expect.
This is one of my favorite children's books of all time. I cry every time I read it! The illustrations are beautiful and the whole story is lovely and moving. I look forward to the day when my own daughters are old enough to appreciate this book.
I remember reading this as a child. Something about a chubby, grubby little angel who has to chase after his halo and who bites his wing-tips when he is nervous made the story very memorable for me. I didn't enjoy it quite as much rereading it as an adult, but it is a very sweet Christmas story.
I remember this book from kindergarten. I thought it was a cartoon, because I can remember movement, but I remember the specific illustrations of the copy I have, a reprint with the Leone illustrations. It made a real impression on me as a five year old, so when I came upon it as an adult, I snatched it up. I still treasure the sweet story of a typical boy now struggling to behave as an angel, who sacrifices his boyish treasures with heartwarming results.
While technically a Christmas story, it doesn't really get to have anything to do with Christmas until the end. And considering this all takes place in heaven, the bar for entrance seems really low considering how uncharitable, rude, and judgmental some of those angels are. I can't imaging treating a child like that on earth, much less on heaven.
I used to love this book as a kid and since I decided to re-read all my fave picture books from my childhood, I was so excited to re-read this...let’s just say it’s different from what I remember. Nostalgia factor has me bumping it up to a 3 star instead of a 2.
This is a heart warming story and great for Christmas time as the newest and a very young angel arrives in heaven. The littlest angel teaches all the truth about real giving, something that comes from the heart. Grab this one and read it out loud as a Christmas Tradition.
Sentimental Christmas story - but my husband has a soft spot for it from his childhood.
I've always had issues with the theology of this story and it is a bit on the long side. But it's a classic, so who's to argue.Featured on the No Extra Words podcast Special #23.
Enjoyed revisiting this classic
Perhaps my favorite Christmas book. A sweet story about the way our gifts are used, even when they seem inadequate
This is a book from my childhood that I reread every year! Love the message
Written in the 1920s, this story reflects the times. It was always a favorite of mine & I enjoyed rereading it.
Read on openlibrary.org the edition ill. by Porfirio. Pretty, and sweet story. My memories of the Johnny Whitaker film are more impressive, though.
I must have read this book hundreds of times when I was a child, just because it was lying around the house... and hated every moment of it :) Never understood those stupid gifts he got.
Really sweet book with pretty illustrations.
In all of these stories the simple gift shows more love and devotion then the elaborate ones.
This is the parable of the rich man, who gave a great deal but it was only a small percentage of his wealth while a poor woman, who gave very little but it was all she had.
The woman's gift was far greater.
It does remind us, particularly at the Christmas season, that it is not the amount spent or the number of gifts given but the love shown by each gift.
For me a gift that shows you know me is better than an expensive gift that means nothing.
Anyway the story is an interesting one that has a good message but is a bit hard in its delivery to the reader, especially to some of the youngest out there.
First of all I find it hard that there would be just one littlest angel since if the concept were to go with that angels are dead people (we won't discuss that whole theological point or not) then there should be a whole slew since unfortunately a lot of small children die.
Going away from the theological points of the book you find the story is longer than most young crowds may be able to withstand.
