https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12286.The_Complete_Dramatic_Works
نمایشنامه ای یک پرده ایدو زن و یک مردو خمره هایی که در آن قرار دارند نمایشی کوتاه از پوچی زندگی مردم
I'm not sure why because I absolutely love Beckett, despite being at complete right angles to his philosophy.
Don't try to read a deep meaning into Beckett's plays, because you won't find any, and the reason that you won't find any is quite simple.
We all live on that stage, in whatever absurd and dismal situation, watched by the confused who cannot see themselves on the playwright's mirror, because all they have seen hitherto is a distortion; or perhaps they are surprised that all they can see in that mirror is nothing.Don't go calling this, or any part of it, a masterpiece.
Подозреваю - и чем дальше, тем сильнее, - что на английском ничего лучше текстов Бекетта не написано. И Пинчона, конечно, но Бекетт был чуточку раньше.
I found myself reading his plays like a piece of philosophical writing - and they started to have some sense. Once you give up trying to make sense of them - I think you weirdly find some comfort in them.
Sono testi che ruotano intorno ad un tema: la difficoltà di trovare un senso a questa vita (se non proprio l'impossibilità).
Con 'Godot' vediamo che questa assenza di senso non impedisce alla scena di essere movimentata, caotica, ricca di avvenimenti e dialoghi.
Con 'Finale...' e 'Tutti quelli...' il dialogo è ancora serrato, ma diventa sempre più difficile per i personaggi comprendersi tra di loro.
L'occhio è l'organo che compare più spesso, sempre con numerosi problemi di vista: i personaggi sono fortemente miopi o addirittura ciechi, per questo fanno uso di occhiali, lenti di ingrandimento o semplicemente della presenza dell'altro per orientarsi nel mondo.
ESTRAGONE Troviamo sempre qualcosa, eh, Didi, per darci l'impressione di esistere?VLADIMIRO (spazientito) Ma sì, ma sì, siamo dei maghi.
-Aspettando GodotHAMM Preghiamo Dio.CLOV Ancora?NAGG Il mio confetto!HAMM Prima Dio!
(Pausa).
Pronti?CLOV (rassegnato) Pronti.HAMM (A Nagg) E tu?NAGG (giungendo le mani, chiudendo gli occhi, recita a precipizio) Padre nostro che sei nei cieli...HAMM Silenzio!
Un po' di contegno!
Su, cominciamo.
(Atteggiamento di preghiera.
Silenzio.
Silenzio.
Scoraggiato prima degli altri) Allora?CLOV (Riaprendo gli occhi) Zero assoluto.
E tu?HAMM Un buco nell'acqua.
(A Nagg) E tu?NAGG Aspetta (Pausa.
Riaprendo gli occhi) Un cavolo!HAMM Che carogna!
Non esiste!
-Finale di partitaNon devo aggiungere altro.
فضای از انزواگری و کنار آمدن با تنهایی و روند زندگی. شخصیت ها اکثرا زوجی و بدون جلوه های ظاهری چشمگیر. حسی که از خوندن نمایشنامه های بکت هم دست میداد رو دوست داشتم. درونگرایی و تنهایی من رو تغذیه کرد و به واقع عمق و درک بیشتری ایجاد کرد.
Brilliant! Beckett is simply the best playwright ever!
Aspettando Godot: 4/5Finale di partita: 4/5Tutti quelli che cadono: 5/5L'ultimo nastro di Krapp: 3/5Giorni felici: 2/5Parole e musica: 3/5Commedia: 4/5Di' Joe: 4/5Respiro: 5/5Non io: 3/5Quella volta: 3/5Dondolo: 4/5
I bought this volume after seeing a production of Krapp's Last Tape, because the play moved me, and I wanted to muse on it further.
A short and fascinating play, recently brought to memorable life for me by actor Richard Wilson and director Polly Findlay.
But...But. The lyricism of the remembered moment Krapp shared with a long-lost love in a punt on a river...
The text was interesting to read, especially after seeing a production.
Beckett certainly provided a lot of direction about how it would all work on the stage - far more direction than is common - so it was interesting to see what this production did and didn't do with that.
dont really have any jokes about this onehis expression of humanity via absurd characters and structures is very soulful, not to mention impressive on an architechtonic level. some of the plays fall into self indulgence or repetition, but all of them contain his excellent sensibilities for aesthetics. read for sure
There’s no denying its influence, but I have a hard time seeing the greatness of the play -- let alone the qualities in it that made Beckett famous.
They are not waiting for god or salvation or Irish freedom or the Id, it’s not an allegory for the cold war or Jungian personalities or Christian repentance, nor is it homoerotic or autobiographical or existential.
They play is essentially a nihilistic work signifying nothing other than its own nihilistic point of view.
Never before had nihilism been given such a stark venue as this play, and I suppose that is the source of its power.
Another 'Must-Read' for all human beings, particularly those who are interested in the theatre.Thrill as Beckett tears apart centuries of convention, and takes some of the greatest steps a dramatist ever made. Breathtakingly eloquent, often without even saying a word.His fiction was also wonderful, so check that out if you have a low tolerance for scripts.
Krapp's Last Tape and Godot are the best. Endgame (the one with the pensioners living in dustbins) and Happy Days strike me as the kind of thing people want you to think they enjoy more than they actually do. The rest are mere sketches.
"Make sense who may."
Beckett presenta un'umanità disumanizzata, smembrata, in cui ogni uomo è un'isola a sé stante che non ascolta né vede chi gli sta accanto, e questo è tanto più forte quanto più si ha a che fare con persone, in teoria, care (si vedano a proposito la signora Rooney - che poi è ben più umana di lui, a modo suo - e suo marito).
Quelli di Beckett sono fantasmi di persone, frammenti di persone.Non do la quinta stella per un motivo soltanto: questi testi erano pensati per una fruizione teatrale, o comunque radiofonica, e leggerli soltanto è come percepirne solo un terzo.
Only read ‘waiting for Godot’ and could not finish the Endgame. But have to say Godot is a unique thing, like the fable. More you think about it more you get it. I think it has to be the reference book for everyone, like Bible is for some people.
Just read the Waiting for Godot, Endgame and Act Without Words combo and don't bother with the other plays.
Fun fact, he's my favorite, but the best book I ever read is Stoner by John Williams.You can get a lot of black humor from Beckett.
We're all working towards a goal so we can be happy, special.
I wonder, is there an omnipotent being who plays with his characters like Beckett just to make his time go away?
Pause.)Clov: He's crying.(He closes lid, straightens up)Hamm: Then he's living.There's a funny story about Beckett.
Maledetto sia il giorno in cui notai che per soli tre euro in più potevo avere non solo Aspettando Godot, ma anche alcune altre opere di Samuel Beckett.È da cinque mesi che ho questo commento in testa, ma mi sono detto: "Vai avanti, non lasciar perdere, sicuramente ci sarà qualcosa di buono e gli darai almeno tre stelline".
Invece no.La triste verità è che i lavori di Beckett hanno senso solo se contestualizzati.
Se i primi (Aspettando Godot, Finale di partita, Tutti quelli che cadono) hanno qualcosa in sé di concreto a cui il lettore può aggrapparsi (dialoghi, ambientazioni, personaggi), gli altri sono parole a caso, giochi di luce, monologhi infiniti, gesti ripetitivi, pause.
Premetto che Aspettando Godot - primo testo di questa raccolta- meriterebbe da solo almeno 4 stelle, ma trattandosi di un'antologia nel complesso non sono rimasta molto colpita.
Questo principalmente perché il teatro di Beckett non sembra essere fatto per un pubblico, quanto piuttosto per portare avanti l'idea di teatro propria dell'autore.
Prima si ostenta la finzione del fare teatro, poi scompare il senso nel dialogo, e infine pure l'azione.
Qui sta la genialità di Beckett, che è andato contro l'idea comunemente accettata di cos'è il teatro, ma che in quanto al prodotto finale io non sono riuscita ad apprezzare.
With the minor exception of Rough for Radio I & II which felt too recycled and pointless to me all the other works contained in here are sublime.
contained in these works.
Until only silence remained when he finally cut away all of the words.
Such a rich and spectacular work whilst “Waiting for Godot” is his most famous work & as good as that one is, he only became better after that in my opinion with almost seemingly every next play being better.
Just show how many steps further he managed to take from the already brilliant “Waiting for Godot”.
I never appreciated Beckett until I watched Beckett.
I've been reading him for years, and every time it's felt the same: someone has tied a noose around my neck and they just keep tightening it.
The awareness of a live performance made the hyper-awareness of Beckett's writing pop from the page, so that when something is said, it is with a pointed beauty.
He makes you feel awkward and uncomfortable, susceptible to your environment and the objects acting on you.
Everything serves a purpose.
He makes you look at life and death with this eye-opening form of awareness that is just really wonderful.
What is living?
What is the purpose of it all?
I'll admit, this is more of a 3.5 stars kind of book, seeing as there's a lot of content, and it varies quite a bit between the obviously genius ('Godot', 'Endgame', 'All That Fall') and the somewhat lacklustre ('Roughs for Theatre', 'Ghost Trio').
The full-length stage plays are great, the radio plays are stellar - and, usually, much easier to read - and the rest is pretty mixed, especially the film scripts and the works that are essentially a set of instructions..
All in all, like any writer, Beckett's total body of work is of varying quality, but most of it's worth reading, and the dross makes the diamonds shine even brighter.
But so many, especially the late, plays are so heavily visual that they verge on unreadable.
Of course, as drama--plays, radio pieces, films--they are meant to be heard and/or seen, so the accusation of unreadability is complex here.
But plays by people like Shakespeare, Shaw, or Fugard (three of my favorites) are compelling reads as well as good peformance pieces.
And while there is no inherent requirement for a dramatic piece to be a good read, when one puts it in a book, the book may become unreadable, and a book does need to be readable.
Otherwise, film/record the piece and don't publish it in written format.
Edward Albee, in his introduction to this book, writes: "You have in front of you one of the most important books of the second half of the twentieth century---the collected plays of Samuel Beckett." Albee goes on to proclaim that Beckett is not "avant garde" or "complex"...but actually one of the most naturalistic and least "obscure" playwrights.
That is highly debatable to put it mildly, but this is a very handsome volume and no one writes quite like Beckett, plays or novels for that matter.
The main part of this book, the major plays, are what makes this worthwhile.
Some of the smaller more quicker works don't translate well to the written page and are generally tedious to read.
Having said that, the main plays do somehow create a Meta world.
A kind of non-situation, what Kant or Heidegger would call the background.
Becket's work constructs a structure on which to hang any subject matter, which is why 'Waiting for Godot' has been read as a comment on Apartheid to the more common existential readings.Becket's plays involve timelessness, boredom, death and nothingness, and what more could you want from a book?
As the title says, this contains all of Samuel Beckett's works, including his famous and all-around masterpiece Waiting for Godot.
Beckett's style is one of those distinctive styles that is so him that all his work in a place like this seems so similar, much like Ramones songs if one may pardon the comparison.
Beckett used many silences and many emotions and gestures that make reading them a painstaking affair.
Still, it makes me want to see more Beckett in performance; to put all of that into action would be an impressive performance for any actor.
A must for Beckett fans.

Try again.
Fail again.
Fail again.
Fail better." The Irish writer Beckett is one of the founding fathers of the Theatre of the Absurd, and his works became more minimalistic through his career ("James Joyce was a synthesizer, trying to bring in as much as he could.
I am an analyzer, trying to leave out as much as I can.").
This is an excellent compellation of the works of a man who famously said, “Where I am, I don't know, I'll never know, in the silence you don't know, you must go on, I can't go on, I'll go on.”
This works better performed live than in a text.
Waiting for Godot, Endgame, Krapp's Last Tape, A Piece of Monologue -- I think these are the more readable ones.
The others suffer because, I think, they are more performance oriented.
It is also tough to read so many Beckett plays -- this book from cover to cover.
I am a Beckett fan but it *is* tiring.
I thought Molloy was quite alright, and Malone Dies, but these are plays!
It's the sort of thing you'd have to read in little discerete units, focusing on one play then another, depending on your mood.
