https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/464328.Album_of_Horses
Two and a half stars for Album of Horses (as yes indeed, for me, the author's choices of which horse breeds to include and which not to include have always bothered me and continue to bother me more than a bit), rounded up to a low three star ranking, as I have in fact enjoyed Marguerite Henry's general writing style and story telling acumen, and I do very much applaud her for categorically pointing out more than once that feeding horses with sugar cubes is not at all beneficial to a horse's, to a pony's, actually to any equine's health and wellbeing, that sugar is as addictive to and for equines as it is to and for humans and just as unhealthy (and not just because it rots teeth).
I opened a book cabinet and found this book I was searching for to give a young rider. (I have 6 copies)I would think every horse lover would have this book on their shelf. It broadens knowledge of how beautiful all horses are.Marguerite did a wonderful job.
I own this book!I went through a very brief interested-in-horses period when a kid.
My cousins, who lived across the street from me, owned horses, rode them, went to shows, etc., but I was just a bystander.
I was a bit older than them and never got to own a horse.
But...In my backyard, which bordered on a huge pasture owned by a neighbor, there was always a horse.
Gorgeous big horse.
(Or more.) And as a result know the names, origins, etc., of many common horse breeds.
(And some not so common, I guess.) I loved seeing this book in a list of a Goodreads member's favorites.
Wonderful stories of real horses are included in the brief chapters on several varieties of these animals. The illustrations are beautiful. The book is written at a level for children, but there is plenty for adults as well. Very, very enjoyable read for those who love animals. The author is obviously one of those people. She's written a flock of books about horses and other animals as well.
Children's Book One of my two all time favorite books as I child. I spent hours and hours over the years gazing at the pictures with dreams in my head. (I'm the kid that asked Santa for a pony every year.) In fact, one of my criteria for picking a husband was how well he could ride. Me and my cowboy have been married thirty years now, live on a beautiful little ranch and have horses, my very own happy ending. :)
I picked up this childhood favorite on a recent trip in the Pacific Northwest.
This is one of Henry's non-fiction books, a collection of essays about various breeds of horses: light breeds, drafters, and ponies alike.
I'm sure at one point I learned something from it, but I believe the main reason I was drawn back to it again and again was Wesley Dennis's beautiful illustrations.
A full-page color illustration for each chapter/breed and little pen and ink drawings filling every margin of every page.
And what a delight, something I had forgotten, was that one of the chapters was a story from Dennis's own childhood!
I found it an interesting work that explores the history of the equine world as well as some of its varied members including horses, ponies, donkeys and mules.
I liked how each of the chapters starts off with a full color picture of the breed in question than in the following pages in the borders are various illustrations of the horse whether in its history, its description, its daily acts or whatever.
Due to this and other parts that may seem a bit rough I would suggest recommending this book to older children rather than younger.
Way back in the age of the dinosaurs, I owned a substantial horse book collection (mostly gone now.) This was one of my most-read books.
It's an old friend.So perhaps my five stars for it is not entirely an objective look at the prose style (cute), information offered (pales in comparison to other non-fiction horse books) or even the artwork (stunning).
Perhaps it's for the feelings it would stir in me whenever I read it, flipped through just to see the illustrations or even just looked at the cover.
One day I may buy a replacement for my old buddy.
Four gold stars for a nostalgic trip down memory lane.
Album of Horses was published in 1951, when I was a youngster.
Of course, I loved horses, like most youngsters back then--especially girls.
What I enjoyed this time around, close to 60 years later, is the understanding the artist and the author had about horses, the people who worked with them, trained them, handled them--it's as if I looked through a snapshot of a time when many children would still understand what a workhorse was, because all farms had not been fully mechanized.
I once again enjoyed immensely the illustrations done by Wesley Dennis.
I remember looking through this book hundreds of times as a child. To this day, I think the illustrations are beautiful.
A nice little treasure that any horse-loving boy or girl will love. The illustrations are pretty and the text is informative while still being engaging.
It's a great place to start, a fantastic introduction to the world of horses.I was surprised at how certain entries did feel dated - even back in the 50's, many farms still had draft horses in use, which Henry mentions - not really true now.
But in some ways that just adds to the book's overall charm.Like I said, the illustrations by Wesley Dennis cannot be beat, and it's worth picking up this book just to look at them.
He was an amazing artist.While this book isn't one that goes into a lot of detail, it's a great introduction to various horse breeds, and a wonderful book for the young horse lover in your life.
This was a book in my room at my grandmother's house - I think it technically belonged to my aunt, but I enjoyed reading it on every rainy Saturday afternoon. Being a horse-crazy little girl, it was wonderful just from the pictures, but as I got older and read more proficiently the information was great as well. It might not be "up to date" for the new century, but the illustrations are timeless and lovely and the way the facts about each breed are presented is actually entertaining.
Great horse book for kids
I loved these books growing up. I have a long list of them requested from the library. I was a horse girl!
When I was little I had an old copy of this book, passed down from a family member, the covers worn around the edges and some pages mended with old yellowed tape (right across the picture of the Shetland pony).
The chapters each start with a brief story (fictional or drawn from real life) about a horse of the featured breed or type, and then go on to tell the history of these horses or more about what they can do.
As a horse-crazy little girl, this book seemed just made for me.
My grandfather gave me his copy of this book when I was 10 years old.
I was really interested in horses at this point and read it pretty quickly.
Reading through it again as a 20 year old, 10 years later, I found it to be interesting, but the stories seem to be written for an older child rather than young one.
It's necessary to have a broad understanding of the English language to understand the stories.
It's very appealing, even if you can't read the stories by yourself or understand what's being written.
This was one of the first books about horses I read when I was a little girl...it is still some 50 years later the one that holds my eye and heart because of its beautiful artwork. Absolutely artfully beautiful, captivating and having survived the ages, a book of love for these magnificent creatures. Give it to that little girl you know who is 'at that stage' where she is madly in love with horses...she will thank you for it over and over.
I think this book is really good for children who have an interest in horses, and want to know about the lineage of some of the more popular breeds. It actually tells the story behind each breed's ancestry, and does so in a manner that will make you want to turn the page. This book was written in a unique manner, which results in drawing you into each story. Excellent read, and I would definitely recommend it to horse lovers.
I was given this book as a gift many, many years ago as a pree-teen. The illustrations are gorgeous. I would spend hours reading about the breeds and looking at the pictures. I even received colander with these beautiful pictures that Christmas. Every time I see a picture of the cover I get a warm fuzzy feeling. I gave a copy to my daughter. It's a perfect gift for a young horse lover. I hope it stays in print forever!
This is one of many classic horse books that define my childhood. The short stories of the different breeds of horses still bring to life the characteristics that will make the seasoned equestrian to the twit who thinks a pony is a baby horse smile and appreciate the beauty and history that is the horse.
A beloved childhood favorite. How many long hours I spent mooning over those gorgeous illustrations, memorizing the attributes of each breed, and dreaming of having my own horse someday! And how many more hours I spent working to try to create drawings of my own to match Wesley Dennis' graceful, expressive lines. A cherished memory.
I checked this book out of my school library in fourth grade the same year I started riding horses. I loved it so much that I stole it by hiding it on my parents' bookshelves behind their books and saying I left it on the bus and couldn't find it. I waited until the school year was over to retrieve it, and it's still on my bookshelf today. I don't regret a thing.
This is such a trip down memory lane. I had this book as a little girl and fell in love with it. I had developed a love of horses, after reading Black Beauty & the Black Stallion books. I memorized all the details about the different names and breed characteristics. This was a much loved and well worn volume.
One of my favorites as a kid. I loved Wesley Dennis's illustrations and the way that the author got into the soul of each horse she described. I especially liked her stories about Arabians and Morgans.
This is one of the first "horsey" books I owned as a girl. I believe the book was previously owned by my older sister. I still have it, and it is literally falling apart. The spine is gone, and the pages are so worn you can tell it was a very beloved book in it's day.
When I was a kid this was my favorite book in the entire world. I spent hours pouring over this book. My mom still has it somewhere, it is well loved, with ragged edges and a cracked spine. What wonderful memories it contains.
A large, full-color guide to a range of horse breeds with a bit of description and history by the classic author-artist team of Marguerite Henry and Wesley Dennis; perfect for the horse-crazy young girl.
I received the book for free through Goodreads Giveaways. This is an excellent read on types of horses. I read this book religiously as a child, and had forgotten how good it was. The descriptions are excellent, and the drawings and art-work is so lovely. You always get the best with Ms Henry!
These marvelous books wouldnt be the same without the collaboration of the incomparable illustrations by Wesley Dennis.had to re-read with maddie after watching the Nature program on the Lippiza horses.
