https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/275472.Six_Plays
Her comment came during the Joe McCarthy 50s when a revival of her play, "The Children's Hour", was opening on Bwy. Her play, like her memoirs and public utterances, is about The Big Fib. I fully understand why, out of nearly a dozen forgettable dramas, this is her most effective.Author of well-made plays, Hellman - whose best writing, ironically, is in her fanciful 'memoirs' - skillfully created tension and piled on the mean dialogue.
Hellman said "No!" when Bankhead sought to add "Foxes." In fact, Lil was a CP member in 1939.
I loved the way Hellman takes advantage of her setting here--it is set earlier than any play in the collection except Another Part of the Forest which tells the story of this same family twenty years prior to this one.
(hide spoiler)]Another Part of the Forest goes back further in time to continue the story of the Hubbards.
It was my least favorite of the six plays, but it still managed to create characters effectively, filling in their psyches in ways that The Little Foxes did not.
That big hour of decision, the turning point in your life, the someday you've counted on when you'd suddenly wipe out your past mistakes, do the work you've never done, think the way you'd never thought, have what you'd never had-it just doesn't come suddenly.
You've trained yourself for it while you waited-or you've let it all run past you and frittered yourself away.
In Hellman's world, people are not inherently evil, but turn towards evil because of their circumstances and social interactions.
Life is a struggle and we get through by having others to lean on, other people that care about us and see us as human.
I daresay if I'd read this decades ago, I might have been more shocked and titillated, and thus found the collection more entertaining.
As it stands, I thought it a fairly dated collection.
And everyone's so SILLY.
The Children's Hour has, probably, the most realistic characters that aren't also tediously boring.
Martha is entirely sympathetic, and you feel genuinely bad for her.
No other character in this collection aroused my interest otherwise.
Sophie, in The Autumn Garden, at least has a clear-eyed idea of what's best for herself without ruining anyone else's life, but was still hard to sympathize with.
Perhaps I am callow, but I'd rather re-read Tennessee Williams any day.
Wow, Lillian Hellman does NOT hold up well. With the exception of The Little Foxes, which I still enjoyed, all of the plays in this collection were dated and pretty disappointing. (The Children's Hour has its moments, though.)
[this isn't the exact edition i'm reading...mine is hard cover and called 'the collected plays' and contains 2 others, adaptations from French plays]loving this great object lesson in the telling of stories through dialogue only. love the plays that dip back and forth in time, too.
A great American playright....timeless in a "dated" sort of way. A must for a "goodreader's" bookshelf.
I loved this book! Ms. Hellman wrote about strong topics and gave her characters life.
Days to Come is clearly a work whose politics come before its value as entertainment, and this gives its characters a certain lack of authenticity (though I do like how Hellman chooses to portray the capitalist Andrew sympathetically), while Watch on the Rhine suffers from the fact that the children are simply not believable as written; given how good Hellman was at constructing her schoolgirls in The Children's Hour, I must conclude this is intentional, but being an artistic choice rather than an oversight does not make it any less jarring.
I absolutely devoured these plays. I came to the work of Lillian Hellman because I was such a fan of the 2017 revival of "The Little Foxes," but each of these plays is a beautiful, thought-provoking masterpiece in its own right. I highly recommend these for theatre and drama fans!
Intense and immediate. And, like "Long Day's Journey Into Night," when I finished each of these, I was stunned: What is going to become of these people?
This is a collection of six Lillian Hellman plays - The Children's Hour, Days to Come, The Little Foxes, Watch on the Rhine, Another Part of the Forest, and The Autumn Garden. My favorite was The Children's Hour. The Children's Hour ★★★★Days to Come ★★★The Little Foxes ★★★Watch on the Rhine ★★★Another Part of the Forest ★★★The Autumn Garden ★★★
I had mixed feelings about this collection of Hellman's work.
Hellman has a gift for banter, and for writing drawn-out scenes that ratchet up the tension as characters quietly put the thumbscrews to one another.
But I found myself frustrated with her plots--all of her plays seem to hinge on sociopaths taking advantage of naïve or genuinely stupid people at moments of vulnerability, and I feel like life is more interesting than that.
Watch on the Rhine comes closest to that, and it was probably my favorite of this collection; the characters genuinely surprised me.
I wanted more of that, and was frustrated not to get it.
I went on a Lillian Hellman jag at one point in my life - I think it was when I was coming down from a Dashiell Hammett bender.
I read everything I could find by her and about her, so of course I read her plays.I like Hellman's sensibilities: I think her political views and mine would be pretty closely aligned if she were still around today.
In many ways, her main topic is power, whether she is depicting the power a young girl has to persuade people, or political power.
Reading plays is a worthwhile occupation, and I wholeheartedly recommend these.
I *like* Lillian Hellman! She's an extremely engaging playwright, no matter what her topic is. Her characters are warm and fascinating but not sentimental or cloying. I think my favorite of the bunch was "Watch On the Rhine," although I'll always love "The Children's Hour."
Strong characters, serious topics
Read "The Little Foxes"
Modern Library Edition of FOUR plays by Lillian Hellman: The Children's Hour; Days to Come; The Little Foxes; Watch on the Rhine.
The Master.
Wonderful writing ! I enjoyed all 6 of them.
Rating based on The Little Foxes and The Children's Hour only.
probably the best female playwright in American history
