https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/472219.The_Planet_Savers
This was pretty ok! It was short and competent, if not the MOST good. Could've used a little less 60's and a little more Making Sense. Kinda felt like there was too much time spent on non-essential plot (crossing a river) at the expense of essential plot (weird split personality stuff.) If you've only got 91 pages, use them a little more economically.
This consists of a novella called "The Planet Savers," with a bonus short story called "The Waterfall." Both are set on the planet Darkover.
In "The Planet Savers," a psychologically repressed young man must embrace what he thinks of as his bad side in order to lead a group into the mountains to contact the "Trailmen," who aren't quite human.
The young man is the ideal one to go because he actually lived with the Trailmen as a child, but as a repressed adult he doesn't have any detailed memories of that time.
"The Waterfall" is a very simple story about a young girl discovering a power within herself.
That's because there were two major problems with the book that are integral to its structure and plot that I just couldn't get past.Problem One: Trailman's fever reappears every 48 years and has an 87% mortality rate.You can probably see the math problem here.
It's fundamental to the plot and it's completely ridiculous, so it meant that the only part of the book that had any conflict was the part that I rolled my eyes at every time I saw.The trailman's fever cure gets mentioned in future books, but the other fruit of The Planet Savers--that the Darkovers would teach the Terrans matrix mechanics--gets walked back in basically every other book.
Not fantastic, but interesting enough to finish.
Nice short little read. I had forgotten about MZB somehow and only vaguely remember Darkover once reminded. Time to get more and get reading.
Master storytellingBradley is the master at blending sci-fi and fantasy, a great read. A look into the mind of a split personality.
great novella in my ultimate favorite sci-fi series
There's a "free Amazon," Kyra, Jason Allison, a Terran raised on Darkover among the trailmen (especially in the books written early on, MZB often includes one or more of these transcultural people - Darkovan-born Terrans, Darkovans raised partly on Earth), Rafe Scott (a name we will hear again) and assorted other characters, both Terran and Darkovan.What brings them together is a threatened outbreak of the 48-year fever (something MZB seems to have dropped later on) - a disease common and relatively minor among trailmen, which breaks out into the human population every 48 years, decimating them.
I'm a fan of Marion Zimmer Bradley, but my affection for her rests not on the Avalon books, which I didn't care for, but her Darkover series.
The Planet Savers (1962) is one of the earliest novels MZB ever published, only the second published in the Darkover series, even though chronologically within the series it comes late.
As a Darkover fan, I'm happy to have The Planet Savers and "The Waterfall," but by no means is this the place to start reading the series and it's among MZB's weakest books and not representative of the series at its best.
I've decided to tackle Zimmer Bradley's Darkover novels, and after reading about them have decided to go chronologically in order of publication.
The author has stated that the books aren't designed to require reading in a particular order, but at least this way I'll have a methodical way to tick them off as I go.
Anyway, this very short novel introduced me to the planet Darkover and its bifurcated population.
In this book, a man journeys to the home of the Trailmen, who do not normally welcome his kind.
There were some well done scenes of tension and suspense as our protagonist journeys to the Trailmen's home.
** Review of Audio Version **Good Stand Alone StoryDarkover is an interesting planet, with a lot going on, apparently!
Hoping that the series gets recorded from the beginning as I enjoy Marion Zimmer Bradley's style of writing and would like to read more.
I just don't like starting a series on book 9 (the most current one available on audio)!Jay/Jason Allison is a complicated man.
Jason Allison just wants to live.
Can the two men reconcile their individual personalities long enough to live as one and save a whole planet?I enjoyed this story, I was invested in the characters, and wanted more when it was over.
I listened to part of this ...
maybe from Librivox (?) ...
and then decided that reading would be faster and keep my attention better so I downloaded a free version for the Kindle.
I never have read any of the Darkover books and this early book is a great example of classic sf.
It tells of two races having to come together to save one race from a deadly plague.
Fascinating and attention holding, as well as a quick read.
I will be looking for other Darkover novels.
An interesting variation on the Jekyll & Hyde theme. I read it as my first Darkover and indeed Bradley book and enjoyed it, but it isn't enough to suck me in to the rest of the series, as it is too much of a stand-alone, and apparently the main character does not star (or maybe even appear?) in other books in the series, nor do there seem to be any unresolved themes. i.e. I don't need to read anymore
This was a vague short book. There really wasn't much to it. That surprised me. It was okay. Hard to follow in some areas. Could have been better. I'm trying to get into the whole Darkover series. A friend recommended it.
Much better than the first dark over novel I read, but that may be due to the quick pace this one entailed as well as the characterizations which are flushed out well for the main characters, though lacking in support characters. I'm intrigued to read more of these novels now.
This was a very good book about the life of two very different men and an important mission.
meh
A darkover book.
I definitely prefer Marion's earlier Sci Fi to her later Fantasy. Very classic adventure plot, and great ideas.
an early serial turned into a novel. great story, classic marion zimmer bradley
I had actually read it a couple of years back, but had to read it again to remember it all. Nice fast read, interesting plot dynamics.
Could be a tad more interesting and conflicts with the description of the ape-men in Landfall kind of.
Simplistic but fun. But then the author as much as says herself that's what she was trying for at the time.
A quick fun sci fi adventure. Plain and simple. The guy who voiced this audiobook was awesome!
Huh?Was this about planet savers tho ?
loved the entire Darkover series!
