https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/386283.Rena_s_Promise
I wrote this book with Rena and though Rena died a few years ago, am busy continuing her message of love to all people.
If you are a fan of Rena's Promise, you can now find her on YOUTUBE.
She was such a bundle of energy, so animated and sweet and funny and REAL.
People forget that Holocaust survivors are real people, who laugh and cry like we all do.
Thank you for your support and sharing her message.
"The heart is only so big, so I don't hate....
To hate is to let Hitler win."
One might be inclined to discount it, expecting a tragic misery memoir.
Rena Kornreich was among the first transport of women to Auschwitz and she is also one of the few women from that first transport who survived to see the camp liberated.
Sometimes the story is so remarkable and the writing so fluid and captivating that it reads like fiction.
But the story is all too true, and through Rena's story we get a panoramic view of what it was like for the women victims and survivors of Nazi Germany and Auschwitz.
I HIGHLY recommend, and I'm not usually a fan of memoir.
Two days later, she recognized her sister Danka among thousand other freshly shaved heads in Auschwitz where, together, they spent the next three years of their young lives as slaves to the Third Reich.
Life in Auschwitz-Birkenau was hard; Rena had seen enough of war in occupied Poland, where she was from, to know a little of what to expect from the Nazis.
This book inspired me to go further, think deeper into my own life and reflect on how things have been going my way, yet still moaning that this and that has yet reached perfection.
The story captures the normalcy of Rena's life before the German invasion of Poland in 1939, and then follows her life in first-person through the concentration camp she endured until freedom arrived in 1943.
Within the camp, Rena Kornreich illustrates how many lived hanging by a thread; that if you simply willed yourself to die, you would.
But Rena retained a fervor for life, largely in part by her sister, Danka, who arrived at the camp shortly after her.
She was determined to protect her sister and held onto the vision of presenting Danka to their parents once it was all over.The account also illustrates human cruelty in its extreme.
What Rena did not know was that she was walking into a seemingly never-ending nightmare of epic proportions, and that she would need to be her sister's guiding light, strength, and protector, and even then getting out alive was a distant hope that faded faster than a bomb falling from the Polish sky.Rena' Promise takes the reader through Rena and Danka's time leading up to, during and after Auschwitz.
The descriptions and accounts of what took place in Auschwitz were difficult to comprehend at times, but the one feeling that I felt while reading her story was the feeling of cold.
It gave me, as a reader, joy knowing that Rena survived to tell this horrific account, and that she was able to live a fulfilling and beautiful life.
"A promise is beauty kept secureThe exquisiteness of knowing what is to come..."The book Rena's Promise is one such story of a promise made, and a promise kept, by a young girl to her mother, to always, and at any cost, to protect her younger sister.
Maybe that is where the beauty of life lies: that we never know our future has in store for us.However, there were times when I felt that Rena's selfless sacrifices were a little  too good.
Wise Bear Books Reviews Rena’s Promise by Rena Kornreich Gelissen and Heather Dune Macadam -- 5 Paws!Rena's Promise: A Story of Sisters in Auschwitz, co-authored by Rena Kornreich Gelissen and Heather Dune Macadam, is a life-changing story not just for the women who lived to share the horrors of their experience, but for anyone who reads this personal account of the most heinous genocide of the 20th century.
Faced with destruction, she and the Jewish people survived.” —Rabbi Lord Jonathan Sacks“Without resorting to unnecessary pathos, Heather Dune Macadam awakens in us both interest and often profound shock.”—Dr. Piotr Setkiewicz, Head of Research, Panstowe Muzeum Auschwitz-Birkenau“The story of Rena Kornreich Gelissen, brought to life again by her writing partner Heather Dune Macadam, shows how a remarkable woman—one of the earliest transported to Auschwitz—resisted the Holocaust and gave life-affirming testimony of lasting value.
A few days later, her sister Danka arrives and so begins a trial of love and courage that will last 3 years and 41 days, from the beginning Auschwitz death camp to the end of the war.
In general, I am obsessed with World War II and I have read a TON of Holocaust accounts.
Quite frankly, I will never, ever read enough of these accounts because they all deserve to be heard.......to be honored.
I read this book in the span of 3 days on my phone.
At the end of the book, it is mentioned that Rena's husband makes a big deal of her liberation day and buys her flowers every year.
Today.None of you are judging me for bursting into such tears that my kids were all "All you okay, Mama?".
No judging?And THAT?
So as I began this book, I was surprised to find that I found it to be somehow detached and non-emotional (if anything about this subject could somehow ever be that way, but I can't help how my mind works).
There were so many heartbreaking moments in the book, like when the mothers were brought in to bring the girls hope, only to be exterminated, and when they marched the children through the camps to the gas chambers.
Here is an excerpt from the book that will stick with me forever:"I am standing there just like a ghost.
Her inner strength, devotion to her sister, and unwillingness to being selfish with whatever she happend to receive speaks volumes about how she was brought up and the compassionate person her mother must have been.This story angered me, turned me cold, brought tears to my eyes and broke my heart...but knowing that she survived made the emotional roller coaster worth it.(view spoiler)[She chose to go to the camp in the hopes her family and friends that hid her would be safe if she turned herself un.
Nothing of Rena's voice has been changed, though several stories that we cut have been added for the digital edition, which give the reader more insight to Rena and Danka.
Readers of the print edition, who are adding this to their digital library, will be most interested in finding out who the SS woman who sicked the dog on the girl was--we now know.
The family also gets posting from fans on our Facebook page and you can see photographs of Rena and Danka and their families both on FB and on our website: www.renaspromise.comWhere we are working on "changing the world one word at a time" and keeping the promise.

It took me a little while to get into this book.
I felt disconnected by the author's style of jumping back and forth between her telling what Rena told her and Rena's own memories.
She was letting us get to know Rena before being thrust into the horror of her life in WWII.
INCREDIBLE book.
Beautiful, beautiful person.
The details she remembered for so long and the clarity and accuracy with which they were told was astounding.
How did she make it through all that and come out on the other end the vivacious person she apparently was?
A captivating and heartwrenching story of courage, selflessness, hope, and survival.
This book was eye opening and humbling as Rena shared her tale of survival in Auschwitz while trying to remain humane and trying to keep her promise to her sister.
Rena's will to survive, her selflessness, and her strength during such a tumultuous time were admirable.
The story telling was great and at times I had to remind myself that this was her reality for 3 years.
There are a few pictures of Rena and Danka included as well.

How one woman, Rena, survived as well as encouraged others, especially her sister Danka, to never give up hope! A TRUE HERO AND ANGEL! I wept with rage and laughed with joy on her unbearable and relentless first person account of the atrocities she endured! To believe that the whole world didn't know about what was happening is to say there is no humanity! History will only tell if and when it could or won't happen once again! I will never forget Rena Kornreich.
Wow. I got chills when I finished this book and really thought about what I just read. It's truly unbelievable how brave Rena was and how beautiful the love her and her sister shared. Her and Danka got through hell together because they had each other.
An unbelievable story of resilience and survival. Every time I read a book about the Holocaust, it reminds me of how precious life is and how hatred can rule a nation. It's important to read accounts such as these so we never forget and do what we can to never let it happen again.
One of the best Holocaust's stories I have read. Well written. Impressive! All the situations these sisters experienced and the courage they showed to avoid separation. Very happy they survived. I would love to read a second book on how they adjusted to a "normal" life.
A story of survival rather than a misery memoir.
I read this years ago, but I'm adding it now so I remember to try to find it again.
It is hard to read because of all the evil done in the concentration camps - it is hard to comprehend that people did such evil things to other human beings - this is a true story, not fiction.
But this story is also full of the kindnesses shown by Rena and by many people towards Rena and Danka.
This is a story of love, between the sisters, but also a sacrificial love shown for prisoners in the camp.
Rena was a very special lady and throughout the book, we are rooting for her and her sister to survive what many did not.
HeartbreakingWonderfully written. A story of survival in unimaginable conditions and the bond between sisters. Absolutely heartwrenching at times, and almost unbearable to read. Despite the horrors, there are moments that made me laugh and moments that made me smile.
Heartbreaking and impossible to put down. It shows both the absolute horror humanity is capable of, and also the ability for powerful love of another to save one's own life.
Although extremely painful to read at times, this book is so beautifully written that it will touch you to the core.
Rena and her sister faced suffering you cannot even imagine in Auschwitz and this book chronicles the ways that they strove to rise above the humiliation, the torture, the filth, the utter depravity and complete darkness of concentration camp life.
For some reason, I find myself mesmerized by this era; not because of the evil and darkness of the time but because of the light of goodness and hope that continued to thrive when the world seemed like it was at its worst.
Rena's Promise tells the unbelievably true story of two sisters who survived more than 3 years in the Auschwitz death camp.
I can't recommend highly enough that everyone read Rena's Promise, and also watch pieces of her lectures on Youtube.
This book really shook me up. To think that humans went thru these things is horrible. I had to skip parts about kids as it was too sad.It makes me wonder about the world now: people think they are owed something and feel so entitled. I can’t imagine people today being able to survive in situations like this.
This is one of those books for me that I get emotionally involved, and when "rest time" is over at my house I just want to keep reading until I finish.
This book was one of the best real life testimonials of a concentration camp survivor I have read as of yet.
It's more that I want to feel what real people experienced-not just facts from the text book.
This women experienced all of the horror of Auschwitz, but it was her strength through it all that was inspiring.
Rena and Danka are sisters in a small town near the Polish borders when Germany starts WWII.
In the book, we hear of the brutalities which have been depicted in holocaust memoirs, but this tale has something different.
In her small border town, Jews are not singled out by other Polish citizens: they help each other!
In the camps,Rena informs her readers of the profound despair that exists there, but she focuses on the will she and her sister, with their friends, employ to make it through another hour, another day, another year.
I was very moved by their resiliance and the mood of the book.
