https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1523473.Individualism_Old_and_New
او هذا ما يبدو للوهلة الأولي بحسب النظرة السطحية لدى عموم الناس للبراجماتية...لكن الحقيقة أن البراجماتية هى فلسفة هدفها الأساسي هو سعادة الإنسان..
إنها تقول أن كل فكرة لدي الإنسان لو لم يكن لها تطبيق في عالم الحقيقة ..
فالفردية في المجتمعات الصناعية الحديثة تعنى إنهيار الصناعة بأكملها..و هنا ظهرت أزمة إنسان العصر الحديث الذي لا يزال يعيش بفكرة الفردية القديمة في عصر لم تعد تصلح فيه تلك الفكرة..
و من هذا الأفكار بالطبع فكرة الفردية التي يطرحها الكتاب..فيما عدا تلك الفكرة لا أعتقد أن الكتاب أفادني كثيرا..
The language is a bit dense, but it's a rather quick read nonetheless. I would recommend reading this with a knowledge of the historical circumstances. I would also recommend this to any student of the University of Chicago Lab school, considering Dewey founded it and his views on individualism were certainly informed by his views on education.
A cogent study of 'Americanism' in the corporate industrial age by John Dewey writing in 1929. Many of his conclusions hold true, and complement the libertarian socialist tradition :) . Syndicating the workplace, horizontal cooperation, the plastic and free human mind, it's all here! It's a sweet book.
Mill identified flaws in Bentham's utilitarian approach to government, which organized societal goals in terms of maximizing the individual's ability to pursue pleasurable activity.
Dewey's plan to create a cooperative industrial order begins by changing the corporate institutions that control societal development.
Dewey defines the goal of liberalism as creating resolute thought amongst individuals.
Political parties must be replaced by intelligent ideas for social change created by the engineering mind and carried out in far-reaching social plans that model the amazing organization of nature.
I believe that the natural desire to grow a private estate can be balanced with a desire to contribute wealth to the public good.
This book could have been written by Dewey today.
His perspective and analysis of Americanism is every bit, perhaps even more, accurate now than it was at the beginning of the last century.
Written between the world wars Dewey analyzes the changes that industrialization and technology were making possible then and the disconnect with the archaic forms of life that were being espoused.
Now, a century later, these changes have only grown through the advancement of technology and our fervent clinging to, perhaps overly idealized, forms of life which are no longer applicable is all the more dangerous.
Dewey arguably with this text sets up a foundation for American liberal critical theory. His creative critique of the industrialization of life from mass products, to mass violence, mass culture, gangs, challenge the idea of individualism and its importance. For Dewey the rights of the individual are important in allowing them to participate in democracy. The only way out is not a return to the past but creatively calling to task the technologies of the times to be of service in creating a humane world. Definitely a worth while read by one of the great thinkers of the 20th century.
In "Individualism Old and New", John Dewey, an American philospher, describes the emergence of a new kind of American individualism. His analysis helps us understand the meaning of individualism today.
مفهمتش عايز يقول ايه بس لازم اعترف انه مقريتهوش بتركيز كافي.اللي فهمته انه بينقاش تأثير التطور العلمي والتكنولوجي وتبعاته السياسية والاقتصادية على الفردية.
