https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13707660-blandings-castle
Irregardless of whatever story you're reading, Emsworth has a fairly one-track mind, he worries over his prize pig, the Empress of Blandings.
Hardships and annoyances are tossed at him from every corner, yet he always keeps his eyes on the prize...pig.Some of the hardships and annoyances include his constantly pestering sister Lady Constance Keeble, his good-for-nothing young son Freddy, his gravelly-souled gardner Angus McAllister, and bank holidays in August.
When Emsworth and his pig and pumpkin are not the focal point of the story, the topic almost inevitably is love.
Rounding out the collection of tales in Blandings Castle, nearly half the book to be more precise, are stories centered around the Hollywood movie scene of the early days.
This was also one, but since there was thirty-five year gap between my previous perusal (during my college days) and this, most of the stories were forgotten and came across as fresh.Of the dozen stories in this volume, half are dedicated to Blandings Castle and its vacuous peer, Lord Emsworth - attended by his ever-faithful butler Beach, the redoubtable head-gardener Angus MacAllister, his pig-man Cyril Wellbeloved, his prize pig the Empress of Blandings and - to the chagrin of the easy-going peer - his gorgon of a sister Lady Constance Keeble and the blot on his sunshine, his younger son the Hon. Freddie Threepwood.
"Have that cats gotten at it?"Lord Emsworth Acts for the Best: Freddie and his wife have a spat and Freddie ends up back in London.
Couple this with a Jeeves-eque side plot where Beach is thinking about quitting because Emsworth grew a beard and there you have it.Pig Hoo-o-o-o-ey: The Empress of Blandings quits eating after her trainer ends up in the jug.
Angela, Emsworth's niece, breaks off her engagement to cavort with Jimmy Belford.
Freddie gives Beefy the idea to go to Blandings under another name and ingratiate himself to the ninth Earl so Gertrude's mother will have to give consent, thus continuing the tradition of an imposter in Blandings.The Go-Getter: Beefy and Gertrude are on the rocks.
Not as good as Jeeves & Wooster, but the narration was good and they did make me laugh out loud. The last two stories, without Lord Emsworth & co., did not hold my attention and I skipped them. They might be better on paper, but the narrator's American-accented voices were unpleasant to listen to.
That said, couldn't we all use some Wodehouse at the end of the day?
Or should I say, couldn't all of us who can fully appreciate Wodehouse use some at the end of the day?
If he was surprised at the presence of a the younger son of the house in the amber drawing-room with a sack of rats in his hand, he gave no indication of the fact.
And few could have denied that he made a strangely impressive figure, this large young man, standing there with bulging eyes & a gyrating dog in each hand."And finally, "Nature has made some men quicker thinkers than others.

If it happened at Blandings Castle, it's priceless.
Wonderful plots, writing, humour.Six Blandings Castle, one Bobby Wickham, and five Mulliners of Hollywood.
The last five reflect Wodehouse's time as a scriptwriter in Hollywood, poking much fun at the ignorance and management of the picture studios by its moguls, and the servile condition of the staff, including the 'nodders', whose job was just to nod silently in agreeing with their bosses, but only after the 'yesmen' had had their say!
Leaves me keener to read more non-Blandings, non-J&W Wodehouse, when I had thought it would be damp-squibbish.'A Bobbie Wickham Story: Mr Potter Takes a Rest Cure' - Appaling slander and manipulation in aid of outwitting an overbearing parent, in the days when such beings had more of a say over marriages.'The Mulliners of Hollywood' - I'm not the biggest fan of early talkie comedy, but most of these made me laugh more than the films themselves, and I couldn't help but visualise them played by supporting casts from Chaplin & Harold Lloyd films, and on the set of that W.C. Fields about a scriptwriter I only watched because it was someone else's favourite (Never Give a Sucker an Even Break).(view spoiler)[Surprised to notice, in 'The Juice of an Orange' that back then it seemed generally accepted that not eating enough made people moody, yet (for I'd not heard the idea till I was twenty, and still didn't often hear it said around and about) it seemed to have disappeared from popular culture for a long time until the "Not You When You're Hungry" ads.
In this volume of short stories there is one which stood out as possibly the funniest thing I've read by Wodehouse: the Bobbie Wickham story "Mr. Potter Takes A Rest Cure." Do yourself a favor and read it. Then do your family a favor and read it aloud on your next road trip. Its quite short and can be easily read aloud in less than an hour--that is, if you don't keep stopping because you are laughing too hard.
The story with the dogs is plain funny. Maybe even funnier is listening to an audio of a story written by a British author & read by a British reader who does 6+ American accents, some of which succeed better than others. (Not that I could do a passable British accent at all, but it's really entertaining.) One story features early 20th-century baffledness around dwarfism that wouldn't be called amusing now, just fyi.
Wodehouse, however droll and repetitive, never fails to please. I must admit that I can't quite stomach binge reading his works, but I take a great delight in all that I've read, and this is another comedic masterpiece.
The second half are tall tales from Hollywood featuring a new character, Mr. Mulliner.
I quite enjoyed the Blandings Castle stories.
I just love stories involving The Empress of Blandings.
I really didn't like any of the Mulliner stories.
I don't know Mr. Mulliner or care why he's telling these stories or whether they're supposed to be true or tall tales.
They don't have as well-drawn characters as the Blandings Castle stories.
I'm obsessed with Blandings Castle and I want to read more.
I think the stories work better in the shorter format because the plots of the novels are basically the same and tend to drag on too long.
A prime collection of Wodehouse short stories from the 1930s - half a dozen Blandings Castle stories, a Bobbie Whickham story, and five of Mr. Mulliner's tales of Hollywood.
I love the Blandings Castle stories.
Most of the usual suspects are here: the vague Lord Emsworth, his prize pig The Empress of Blandings, his domineering sister Constance, his younger son Frederick, and Beach, the butler.
I am less enamored with Wodehouse's Mulliner stories.
Wodehouse generally wrote farce, but Mr. Mulliner's tales go beyond that, into the absurd.
Four stars for the Blandings Castle stories, about the first half of the book.
Two stars for the second half, which is a series of semi-linked stories that take place in L.A..
As a third person narrator writing about the spoiled ultra wealthy English, Wodehouse is entertaining, if a bit repetitive, but the American stuff is pretty flat and was probably made worse by the annoying narration ofJames Saxon attempting various American accents.
He's fine as a narrator for the English characters, though I will always and forever wish that I could find all of the narrated by Alexander Spencer.
Its always fun to read the works of P.G. Wodehouse after a while and find oneself laughing out loud at the looney characters and among people falling in and out of love.The story " the custody of the pumpkin " was kind of surprise because earlier i have seen lord emsworth being infatuated by only pigs and only pigs occupied his life. i also liked the the bobbie wikham story, my only complaint being that blandings castle part occupied less number of pages that i thought. But dash it! what ho ! I had a jolly good time.
I liked the Blandings stories, most of which involved Emsworth's younger son Freddy, better than the final 4 Mr. Mulliner stories, which all involved Hollywood. I think that those 4 were too similar - one I would have liked but by the fourth one, I found myself disappointed. Ah well...James Saxon was OK as the narrator but he didn't have that little extra which lifts the narration into the superb category that Jonathan Cecil has.
Delightful and not very demanding--perfect for a plane trip. I learned some new words, too:zareba: a protective enclosuregamboge: yellow-orangeone of Nature's prunes: an unpleasant personnot quite the straight bat: dishonestwince like a salted snail: suffer from the effects of a hangovercold-asparagus-backboned: devoid of courageroly-poly pudding: a steamed or baked dessert of biscuit dough and jam or fruit
Разказите за замъка Бландингс бяха много смешни, буквално се смях на глас в метрото. Другите ми бяха по-скучни, с изключение на последния разказ за Джийвс, който беше хубав финал за книгата. Определено станах фен на Уудхаус!
If you want a classic and a comedy, this it for you. Hilarious as fuck :)
‘Blandings Castle’ or ‘Blandings Castle and Elsewhere’ to give it its full title is a collection of short stories set, surprising enough, in Blandings Castle and elsewhere.
It is really a book of two halves with the first half chronicling the Threepwood family of Blandings, the second half concerning Mr Mulliners tall tales and a brief interlude of a story about Bobbie Wickham, a thoroughly modern girl.The Blandings short stories allow the Threepwoods and particularly Lord Emsworth to come out of the shadow of being in the supporting cast of Wodehouse’s novels to take centre stage.
He replied, though it hurt him to do so, that everything at Blandings was excellent.It undoubtedly helped a man in his dealings with the domestic staff to have, as they had had, the rights of the high, the middle and the low justice—which meant, broadly, that if you got annoyed with your head-gardener you could immediately divide him into four head-gardeners with a battle-axe and no questions asked—but even so, he realized that they were better men than he was and that, if he allowed craven fear of Angus McAllister to stand in the way of this delightful girl and her charming brother getting all the flowers they required, he was not worthy to be the last of their line.I could be pedantic and point out some specific things I love in these quotes, but that is not in the Wodehouse spirit.
Besides, the writing and the stories are so delightful that they need no help from me.
I like him, and find stories about him gently amusing, so I really enjoyed that part of the book.
So far, 4 happy stars.The rest of the book is devoted to a series of stories told by a man in a pub about his relative in Hollywood.
I don't find whiners funny, for one thing.
And what I like about most Wodehouse is that his characters are idiots, but they're nice, well intentioned idiots.
1 star.So average together a little over half at 4 stars and the rest and 1 and you get 3 stars.
Una raccolta di racconti in cui troviamo alcuni dei protagonisti del ciclo di Blandings (manca Galahad).
Lord Emsworth si trova alle prese con i guai del figlio minore Freddie, con la rigida sorella Constance, con il rivale Gregory Parsloe, con dei bambini scatenati.Mi è piaciuto scoprire il personaggio di Freddie, di cui al momento non avevo ancora letto nulla.
Il figlio combinaguai che il padre deve spesso togliere dai guai, è un personaggio molto simpatico.Anche in questo caso, non mancano alcune scene toccaneti, come nell'ultimo racconto "L'amica di Lord Emsworth", in cui Clarence fa amicizia con una bambina che si trova nel villaggio.
I continue to indulge myself by the occasional purchase of a nice Collector's Wodehouse hardcover.
This one is a collection of stories: six about Lord Emsworth and the Blandings Castle crowd, one about Bobbie Wickham (whom I'd only previously encountered in Jeeves and Wooster stories), and five Mulliner stories of Hollywood.
I think that Wodehouse's talent for twisted, clever plots is best displayed in his novels, but I enjoyed the Emsworth stories (which are somewhat interrelated) quite a bit anyway, and also the Bobbie Wickham story.
The Hollywood stories didn't work for me very well; the plots were unbelievable even for Wodehouse and the characters really never more than types.
A collection of short stories from the pen of Wodehouse, most of which concern the Earl of Emsworth and the denizens of Blandings Castle. The stories are all fun, and who doesn't love the fluffy mind of the Earl? Most of his problems tend to stem from the fact that his mind wanders, and then things go all kaflooey. It's a joy to...where was I? Oh, yes. I was going out to check on the garden. Carry on.
" Good one for the newcomers to the world of blandings. You enter with little hesitation and awkwardness but receive a warm welcome there,soon fall in love with its marvellous characters, its surroundings, its plot- which always gradually thickens! With humour sprinkled all over it- you enjoy it so much,just wont feel like leaving that fantasy world ever...Just love everything by Wodehouse for its 'striking subtlety',which lingers for a long time!"
I *love* P.G. Wodehouse's stories. They're like watching a British comedy show, in book form. They're clean and very funny. Light reading, but still with an intellectual flavor to it, and very entertaining. Most of his stories poke subtle fun at the upper crust in 1920s England.
Collection of short stories that includes six set at Blandings Castle (all of which were hilarious), one featuring Bobbie Wickham, and five about the Mulliners of Hollywood (funny enough but a bit too repetitive).
This book is another of Wodehouse's collection of stories involving characters like, Mr Mulliner and Lord Emsworth. It is worth reading not only by a Wodehouse fan but also by one who loves good simple humour that all of his stories offer.
