https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1050507.The_First_Lady_Chatterley
كتابات ديفيد هربرت لورنس كانت تُعد صادمة في أوائل القرن العشريناهتم عموما بالعلاقات الانسانية بمختلف
بالرغم من شهرتها الجلية إلا أنني وجدتها سيئة للغايةقد تكون الفكرة مختلفة في وقتها و لكن بالنسبة لنا عفا عليها الزمنإطالة غير مبررة و أحداث لا طائل من ورائهاالشيء الوحيد الجيد كان الترجمة
an original in the wasteland era of T.S. Elliot (after WWI)
This first version of the book that made an appearance in Mad Men, Lady Chatterley's Lover, appears not to be as famous as the latter third edition.
This first edition is unusual in that it is not organised into parts or chapters and I found myself unable to put it down because it was good but also because there are no natural places to stop reading!
I found it hard to put this book down and now I must read the more famous version to fill in the many pages that were skipped in this first draft.
D H Lawrence wrote three drafts of the novel that was later published as 'Lady Chatterley's Lover'.
It's many years since I read the most famous of the three novels, so am unable to draw parallels.
However 'The First Lady Chatterley' is a beautiful and absorbing read.
It is extremely thought provoking to read a novel, written nearly a hundred years ago, that imagines a lady moving down into the working classes when a woman, four generations removed from coalmining stock, has just married up into the royal family.
I almost feel like I need to apologize for liking this book.
It makes you think about marriage and what you're willing to settle for, the social classes & what's considered the "upper class" is not necessarily upper by someone else's standards.
And to tell you the truth it made me thankful for moral standards!
A little guidance here would have been a good thing.
It also gave a good description of a country moving into the industrialized realm.
My book group chose it & I was the only one who read it.
I've read all three versions, and despite what the blurb said on the back of the second book, that Lawrence subtitled it 'Tenderness', this one is my favourite.
There's more on the intellectual relationship between Constance and her husband; and my personal theory is that, in this version, you can see the influence of Thomas Hardy's last two novels: 'Tess of the d'Urbervilles' and 'Jude the Obscure'.
The idea of a person being torn between a cerebral/platonic relationship and a physical one is nothing new; but this is well handled and believable.
If you've only read the third and final version, give this one a go too.

I like it better This book is more concise. The conclusion is a little less defined but it's better for that. We all do wonder how they would work it out. In this version, it's thoughtful, emotional, practical and personal. The plot moves quickly and the reflective/philosophical parts are appropriate and illuminating without dragging on for too long. I'm glad Michaelis wasn't in this version. It makes me want to watch the Ken Russell film again.
الصراع بين العقل والجسد
أحب الروايات الحقيقية التي تكتب بالدم أحب الروايات التي تقول لي أنت هنا , أحب الروايات التي تصرخ ضد 
I don't really know what to think...I've expected something much more outrageous and explicit in some way. And something that would describe the sexual side of a realtionship as something that complements the link of minds, not replaces it.Nevertheless, I think that Lawrence made a great comment about post-war society.
Da er zusätzlich auch impotent ist, bleibt die sexuelle Befriedigung in der Ehe insbesondere für Connie auf der Strecke – Clifford scheint mehr traurig darüber zu sein, dass er seiner Familie keinen Stammhalter schenken kann und sucht seine Erfüllung derweil in einer Karriere als Autor.Entsprechend sucht Connie anderweitig nach Abenteuern, die sie jedoch auch nicht zufriedener machen – bis sie den eher eigenbrötlerischen Waldhüter ihre Mannes, Oliver Mellors, näher kennenlernt und sich zu ihm hingezogen fühlt.
Doch Connie merkt immer mehr, was sie eigentlich will: Raus aus den zwar komfortablen, aber beengten Verhältnissen ihrer Ehe und ein einfacheres, aber glückliches Leben führen an der Seite des Mannes, den sie wirklich liebt.Es geht hier allerdings nicht ständig zur Sache.
At the beginning, this book made me feel like a part of Bacovian universe; all was gray: gray sky, gray mansion, gray words, gray smoke and the monotony of everyday.
This made me feel every word, to imagine the beginning of XX century and to realize the pathological boredom Constance felt.Then there is the forest: painted in green and flowers, even if the sky is still gray.
I disliked last hundred pages because they lack the description of a real love, defining it as all that 2 people do in bed.
I loved that the sex between Parkin and Lady Chatterley wasn’t pornography.
The changing features within the eyes and not just Parkin and Lady Chatterley but all the characters.
He allows us to then interpret our feelings about these people and situations in the novel.
The language of the novel allows for intensity.
In the early 20th century class was still a major issue.
We see both Parkin and Lady Chatterley struggle with these differences.
Both represent a unique novel crucial for the time they were written but still relevant today in a different way.

The novel gradually becomes interesting as Mellors and Connie's affair becomes intense.
Mellors never directly tells Connie that he is in love with her, which left me a little disheartened.
Also in the end of the novel, the author gives an unsettled feeling to the reader whether their relationship shall work out or not.
Ultimately in this novel, I feel that the the author uses his characters to tell people how unsettled he feels in the progression of human society.
The novel is engaging, but I don't think I will be re-reading this book in a very long time.
He doesn't want to live on her money, she can't be brought down to his level, sounds like a helpless case.
But it's a case they keep revisiting every ten pages, one more talk, one more of her whining binges where she asks him to tell her he really loves her, blah blah blah.
I know this sounds absurd to those that love the novel, but I just don't see what the fuss was all about.
Well, I know why it was banned, the sexual content, the adultery, etc., but why is it a classic?
Absolutely loved this book.
So wonderful to be reading a 20th Century classic again.
I read the first edition, not realising that Lawrence wrote three editions in an effort to fend off the critics with each attempt.
His wife, Freda, liked the first edition best, so am glad I read that one.
Unfortunately a few pages of Lawrence's notes were missing and so were unable to be published however I felt able to fill in the gaps.
Took me no time at all to read and would recommend it to anyone who loves the classics.
Long before the famous indecent publications case, Lawrence wrote this first draft of one of his most famous works.It makes for interesting reading especially in comparison to the later more famous version.
In this telling the love story feels oddly more sincere and honest thatn the mire of self doubt and misery in the final version.
The plot is basically the same, although certain elements, the rising power of the working classes, is painted in broader simpler strokes than the more unsettling air of decay and loss in the final version.All in all it makes for an enjoyable and decidedly more cheerful take on the affair than the more famous later iteration.
Aaaaand you see why D. H. Lawrence re-wrote this book (twice.) Nothing that kills a book faster for a 21st century reader is painstakingly long debates on Communism. Every now and then there are breaks of "next three pages of original manuscript missing" which doesn't slow the already comatose plot since Lawrence liked to repeat himself so much.
What a beautiful, surprising story. An upperclass British lady at the turn of the century discovers sexual love and attachment with her husband's very common "gamekeeper." I loved the revolutionary theme! The lack of chapter divisions was a truly unique reading experience. Because of this, it almost felt like a fairy tale to me.
I really didn't like this book, and not because of the explicit descriptions but because it goes goes on and on and on...I just got bored with it all. The story is little more than padding and the words are just dull, exactly how Connie describes the North!
I hadn't realized that D.H. Lawrence had written 3 versions of Lady Chatterley's Lover. It was interesting as a piece of history. For my taste though, there was much too much philosophizing and ruminating!
This book is not as indecent and alarming as everyone thinks!!! It actually has its point. I actually admire Lady Chatterley, how she was able to found her real love and life after being married to a cripple. However, there are so many scripts that i find no sense, as in their lost within the book.
lagi ngomongin AE jadi inget gue punya buku ini. Belum disenggol. Cuma googling tentang kehebohan buku ini setelah nemu di toko buku bekas. :D
Not just an erotic book, but also about how women and men were supposed to behave in proper society. A historical view of a historical open marriage ending in a woman's liberation.
Not sure how I missed that this had been published, but I'll have to find a copy....
Lawrence wrote three versions and this one shows how he began to develop this coming of age story.
toss up between this one and the third edition
