https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/695125.The_Concept_of_Mind
Really brainy books at a little airport bookstop?I remember when I was seventeen, and a girl I knew in high school told me she had dated one highly neurotic guy who asked everyone he knew at some appropriate time, ‘Yes, but can you JUSTIFY YOUR OWN EXISTENCE?’But a mere year later I had a philosophy prof who was afflicted with an insoluble moral quandary of the same genus!Thirty-something, he had a large mop of unruly blonde hair which he kept flinging furiously out of his eyes.
Chief among them was Gilbert Ryle, who always used to pace the Oxford pathways between classes, intently reading an open book.
Men are not machines, not even ghost-ridden machines. They are men—a tautology which is sometimes worth remembering. The problem of mind is one of those philosophical quandaries that give me a headache and prompt an onset of existential angst when I try to think about them. How does consciousness arise from matter? How can a network of nerves create a perspective? And how can this consciousness, in turn, influence the body it inhabits? When we look at a brain, or anywhere else in the ‘physical’
In the Cartesian picture, people’s minds are absolutely cut off from all outside observation.Ryle is hardly original in pointing out these two problems, although he does manage to emphasize these embarrassing conundrums with special force.
You really don’t know how to divide.STUDENT: But my mind performed the correct operation when you asked me the first time.
I forgot how to do it after that.PROFESSOR: How do you know your mind performed the correct operation the first time?STUDENT: Introspection.PROFESSOR: But if you can’t remember how to do it now, how can you be sure that you did know previously?
In fact, it is a far cry from doing so, especially if one supposes that the method by which one provides his arguments (snidely referred to by one reviewer as epigrams which leave rubble and doubt in their wake,) is insufficient.The primary difficulty with Ryle's point of view is that it is rigidly empirical.
Thus this is an excellent example of how oftentimes what we argue about can be reduced to the method by which we approach the problem.Another reviewer suggested, although I am not sure how seriously, that Ryle's reunification argument was merely recycled Schopenhauer.
But I could be wrong, not having read the entire think.I need to get rid of this book as I have developed an allergy to it as an object of bound paper/thought.My father's father is interred in Arlington, VA.
Gilbert Ryle would put me to sleep, and in fact did the first time I tried to drunkenly read this book, were it not for the fact that the triggering of the severe allergy to cats wakes me up.The room I rented in Arlington, MA may have at one time contained a book by Ryle.
Even if you wind up disagreeing with a lot of what Ryle has to say (and, as someone who comes from a much more scientifically oriented background, and thinks less of natural language and conceptual analysis approaches to these issues, I certainly disagree with a lot of it) I think the presentation of Ryle's ideas is often illuminating.The greatest strength of Ryle's work is becoming what I find definitive about the great modern philosophers (the most prominent other figure who jumps to mind is the late Hilary Putnam); reading their articulation of the problem and the context in which it occurs is far more useful than just looking at the bare-bones version of an argument.
lotsa fun. presents the well known "ghost in the machine" thesis, and develops the fallacy "category mistake." presents a persuasive deductive critique of the concept of "volition." eat that, objectivists!
Chapter 1 - Descartes Myth
Concept of Mind The common conception of how minds work is engrained in every facet of western society and culture. For centuries philosophers have been operating on various assumptions that without putting them to the test. This belief is that all humans, except possibly infants and idiots, have both a body and a mind. Human bodies are in space where human minds work outside of space. Being outside of space minds are not observable and therefore the possessors of these minds have privileged acc
If we readily see its implications that is due to the work was already done and the person having “got it.” Abstractions are things that are more general than the syntax would suggest.
They would say that though a person may be able to perform a certain intellectual act that it makes their thoughts known the act may be just luck or knowing only the syntax of the argument but not the semantics.
A person is able to teach or explain parts of theory when he does not fully understand the whole thing.
it's the effect of when the hermeneuts have contact with the social scientists, and it's apparently a little bit of an ethical debate of description vs.
a woman at a noise show offered that i should take the analogies as "thought experiments." compare whenever a heremeut got a point they have an object that makes the idea easier to track.
okay, so this is ryle's example of a non-dualistic world; the intangible occult mystery of how the mind interacts with the body, a single motion.
ah, don't read wegner!) of mind and all of its intoxicating fantasies go...
Three centuries later comes this book, whose author, Gilbert Ryle, has decided to put paid to the two-track account of the mind and the mess it creates.Ryle's heart is in the right place.
Ryle dismantles dualism with the help of logical positivism and language.
But the approach that seemed so solid at the time has since come under strong criticism for implicitly accepting Descartes's either/or approach and simply arguing the other side of it.Ryle's flashy writing gives readers an idea of the issues involved in philosophical dualism, and it shows how logical positivism, linguistic analysis and psychological behaviourism can be used in philosophical argumentation.
certainly a classic; still has information that makes you think
Unbearably excruciating and revelatory! As if someone took my pre-frontal cortex out on a triathlon. I really didn't think there's a way to quantify "consciousness" in anything remotely scientific. Come on! I'd say. Yet I was proven very wrong (thank you books). Who studied this for their major? Did you survive? :)
Avoiding the real question of mind, but still a classic, for behaviourists.
This was, I think, the first real book I bought (with real money) and read just before I went off to college in 1974. I ended up doing psychology ...at college as a start.
While I think I agree with the main premise of the book, I did not find the writing very interesting.
Written during a period when many philosophers thought it was of paramount importance to ascertain what good philosophy shouldn't be doing, Ryle wears the mantle of debunker of smuggled mental nonsense with easygoing distinction.
Ryle dismantles "the ghost in the machine"(I believe he coined this phrase in this book) by slicing off common absurdities and myths our species has developed to explain "mental" processes.
On the constructive side, and there certainly is one, Ryle collapses the imagined exchange between an acting agent thinking he's uncorking a bottle of wine from the bodily act of physically uncorking a bottle.
I do get that his view is that no such theory is required but this seems untenable.In summary, the book is worth reading to introduce the reader to identification and criticism of Cartesian dualism and for the concept of category errors.
An interesting book essential to a complete understanding of the history of philosophy of mind. However, I neither agree with the ordinary language philosophical methodology nor with the deflationary analysis of mind. I am grateful that most contemporary philosophers of mind agree with me here.
A valiant effort to analyse the ways in which qualities of the mind are invoed in both everyday and scientific discourse.
The central thrust of the book is to give a deflationary account of the mental.
Quite unlike the traditional Cartesian picture of the mental realm, where mental acts and mental entities dwell, Ryle presents qualities of the mind as modes of engaging with the world - as skills, modifications of behaviour, or processes.This analysis points out serious difficulties with the traditional view, but also suffers from a number of problems.
Nevertheless, the book is interesting as a crucible for Cartesians and those interested in the philosophical merits of the Cartesain theory of mind.Ryle's book is chauk full of arguments, long ones, short ones, simple ones, subtle ones, with a particular predominance of infinite regresses.
It was not always clear to me whether Ryle was misusing a word, or whether its use is different for us than it was for him.
i've read 5 chapters of this (the first four and the last).
i don't know if i'll ever read the middle chapters so i may as well review it.
the comments of two professors on the section where he lays out the "category mistake" at the heart of cartesian dualism led me to re-read this section in particular, and conclude that it's a rather sketchily drawn analogy that doesn't give you much reason to reject cartesian dualism.
(for the record, i think there are any number of other, better reasons for rejecting cartesian dualism).
This book is "must read" in the subject of philosophy of mind even if it is a bit tedious in parts.
Rather than taking it as reducing the mind to observable behavior, I took it as showing how what we talk about as mind is a natural part of our dispositions and activity as a living human animal that is not necessarily as mysterious and hidden as some philosophy and religion makes it out to be.
His challenge to Descartes's dualism ( as the ghost in the machine) it's classic.
It is worth contending with Ryle's challenges even if you don't end up agreeing with the totality of his thesis.
Worth reading for the introduction and the early chapter called "Descartes' Myth". Although I haven't read all of the remaining chapters, which each center on a distinct cognitive faculty such as "imagination", "intellect" etc., it seemed as though these chapters were all seemingly endless and very tedious repetitions of the more general case for analytic behaviorism made at the beginning.
Geeft een duidelijke uitleg dat en waarom de lichaam/geest definitie van Descartes niet klopt.Vult het probleem aan met een uitstekende uitleg dat wat hij 'the ghost in the machine' noemt alleen gezin kan worden met een grote differentiatie.Ook legt hij uit dat de 'sense date theory' niet klopt en aan het zelfde manco onderhevig is.
An interesting book essential to a complete understanding of the history of philosophy of mind. However, I neither agree with the ordinary language philosophical methodology nor with the deflationary analysis of mind. I am grateful that most contemporary philosophers of mind agree with me here.
Ugh, read this in a college philosophy class. *still shudders at the thought* I just couldn't buy this concept, maybe I'm too much of a romantic to believe we're just reactions. Give me Leibniz any day!
I happen to think Ryle misses the shot on what mind 'is' but he certainly does a brilliant job on sweeping away many of the previous misconceptions. If you care about the current debate on ToM you need to read this to get your thinking straight on what it is not.
This book felt very much like a lite version of Heidegger's corpus. Do yourself a favour and skip directly to "Being and Time", the heavy handholding and excessively drawn out explanations of simple arguments make this book a frustrating and dull read.
"A sort of philosophical guerrilla warfare that never settles into or commits to a positive 'theory' for long enough to permit a well-aimed attack." (from Dennett's "Re-Introducing The Concept of Mind")
It's tough and indeed mind boggling but Ryle writes clearly about a tenuous subject - almost worth it for his lovely examples of cricketers and games
