https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8292118-the-lurking-fear
Although it is far from being one of H.P.’s best tales, it is an early example of his ability to create an effective horrific setting, and because of this it should be of interest to any true Lovecraft fan.The story is narrated by an unnamed seeker of “strange horrors” who is investigating the massacre of a community of some six dozen backwoods degenerates in an obscure region of the Catskills, a massacre which occurred during a particularly violent electrical storm and seems to have been perpetrated by an unidentified clawed beast.
Demonic incest and cannibalism made for some lovely Sunday morning reading!

And it's why modern writers who never knew him turn out such inferior product, because they don't get it, the idea that there's no way you can write this sort of stuff without having your tongue firmly in cheek, if not outright howling with laughter.HPL has been called many things, some good, some bad, but for me he is one of the outstanding humorists of the early 20th century for putting across a joke and a genre of humor that people to this day still don't understand.
O M G!! I LOVED it! There is such beautiful writing in the story. I haven't read all of Howard's work but so far this is my 2nd favorite!
Първото нещо, което четох на Лъвкрафт. И още любимото. „Цветът от космоса“ — нямам думи! Толкова красиво и ужасяващо нещо може да напише само още един човек — Донко Найденов :) Както и Бранимир Събев — в Нощно острие, разбира се :)
Завладяваща и дебнеща.
Wow. I need a refreshing shower, that prose was so humid.The story itself kind of sucks, as it's written in four installment pieces (and published, apparently, as a four-part series in a humor magazine), a format which doesn't seem to lend itself to Lovecraft's style.
Classic stuff, bad formatting.I've been enjoying my daily Lovecraft story fix.
And in particular, I'm enjoying finding an edition of the short story with cover art that matches the story contents as much as I'd like.
This particular cover, with the mansion set against a deep blue sky and a creepy demon in the ground, seemed like classic 80's horror novel art.
Spoiler-free review of The Lurking Fear by H.P. Lovecraft3.5/5An intrepid searcher who has made a career of exploring weird and inexplicable horrors, seeks to unearth the mysterious 100 year old history of unsolved deaths and mutilations targeting villagers within the Catskills.
The perfect read for a dark and stormy night.In 1994, Lovecraft's The Lurking Fear spawned a loosely-based Full Moon Pictures film adaptation by the same name.
While average for low-budget horror pictures, the movie features decent practical effects and an entertaining performance by genre veteran Jeffrey Combs as a doctor with an undisguised affinity for alcohol.The Lurking Fear is recommended for Lovecraft fans looking to explore more of his work.
A dreadful house with a history of demonic inbreeding and the consumption of flesh. Thankfully, the protagonist did the right thing and blew up the abominable house along with the entire mountain which it rested upon with dynamite. You did the world a favor, sir.
Lovecraft is probably better known for his stories involving tentacled oily nasties from other dimensions (aka the cthulhu mythos), but he also does an excellent line in 'speculative genetics' as per this story.
insane lightning over malignant ivied walls and demon arcades choked with fungous vegetation...As I read this the voice in my head morphed into the painter from The Fast Show screaming "BLACK...!
BLACK!
I'M A FLY, TRAPPED IN A JAR OF SHADOWS!" I wouldn't be surprised if Lovecraft was a source of inspiration for that sketch arc now.

This guy is stimulating at best and boring at his worst. the bottom line is that he is verbose. I did not feel a damn, pardon my french. The shudders of horror must be conveyed through the way the words are used not the words per se- in this very case, embellished metaphors and savant words in patches that all they say all in all is nothing mostly.
Following a slow start, the story really picks up after the first thunderstorm. The poor narrator just can't catch a break. It's a bit depressing following him around, though I'm glad he finds what he was looking for in the end.
4.75 stars. This has a horrifying atmosphere and when I read it during the dark of night, I felt a little spooked. Review to come.

Лъвкрафт е задължителен за любителите на жанра. Оставя отпечатък в съзнанието, в душата, ако щеш. И някакси усещаш, че ти самият се променяш с всяка следваща страница.
One of a kind horror tale by H.P. Lovecraft. He is able to create a horrific , dark and creepy world by his writings and the way he writes kept me captivated and fascinated throughout the book.
I read a book called The Lurking Fear by H.P. Lovecraft.
The story starts as the narrator who is a monster hunter hears about “The Lurking Fear” that is killing people on a tempest mountain.
Later, he teams up with a journalist to continue the investigation.
Later on the “Lurking Fear” seemed like something demonic and out of this world.
People were also saying many different things about what the think is the “Lurking Fear”, dropping hints.
Throughout the story, there is this mystery of what is the “Lurking Fear” and how and why it is killing people.
Доста приличен сборник с разкази на ужаса, които за времето си безспорно са били нещо впечатляващо и ново. Днес обаче, на фона на развития жанр "хорър", дори на Лъвкрафт ще му се изправи косата.Разказите наистина ми харесаха. Оригинални сюжета, добре написани, без следа от онази тромавост, иначе типична за произведения за произведенията от началото на миналия век. Чете се бързо и приятно. Определено първата ми среща с Лъвкрафт беше интересна.
This one started slowly for me, but the tension and plot thickens considerably.There's no real twist in the tail, the ending is sort of telegraphed well before then.However the tale of a man's obsession bordering on insanity unfurls with credibility.Whilst not a supernatural tale as such, Lovecraft's deft touch at creating a scene of horror and depravity works well.
Decent weird story with many of the usual caveats when it comes to Lovecraft. Plenty of purple prose, and it is somewhat amusing, though not unexpected, when the origin of the creatures is revealed. The description of them pouring out of the ground like sewage was particularly great or bad depending on one's leanings towards Lovecraft in general.
Dioses del Averno. Qué relato tan gratificante para "curar" tu mente. Con este relato comenzaba Lovecraft a crear situaciones pavorosas y a mostar los primeros tentáculos. Amo este relato. <3
3,5 от 5 звездиБезименният град - за археолог който открива загадъчен град в чиито дълбини се спуска за да го изследва и открива доказателства за древна цивилизация.Този разказ е един от първите на Лъвкрафт и спецовете го смятат за аматьорски и да той може да е не доизпипан стилно,но поне краят му е добър в това че оставя загадка за съдбата на археолога и е по своему сбъркан като халюцинация на разказвача.
Вони давно остерігаються гори і маєтку Мартенсе, який стоїть на її вершині.
Родина Мартенсе була відлюдкуватою, а потім зникла - вони померли або поїхали геть.
Та мешканці навколишніх сил з острахом згадували їх і вважали, що дух вбитого Яна Мартенсе під час буревіїв шукає собі жертв.Цього разу катастрофа здійняла багато галасу і в цю глибинку приїхав мисливець за надприродним.
Зрештою, наш герой зізнається, що краще цього б ніколи не знав, бо тепер немає такого препарату, який вгамував би його під час грози.
Потім Лавкрафт додасть сюди ще поклоніння первісним богам, але поки й цього достатньо.
Another nasty one.
In spite of what I said earlier about my appreciation for Lovecraft's corrupt protagonists, it was rather nice to run across one who wasn't himself revolting.
Unfortunately, I thought this was going to throw some light on the terrible beyond (when he mentioned that he had finally found one of the horrors we are normally protected from by our limited senses), but then it turned into (view spoiler)[another encounter with inbred white apes (hide spoiler)].
Lovecraft found the idea of devolution hideous, let me tell you.(Moved 2016 review to the individual work Sept.
2017 to make room to review the collection under its own entry.)
An absolute favorite. The atmosphere is palpable in this one, and there are a number of climactic scares throughout, rather than a slow burn leading up to one big payoff. The writing is as dense as you would expect from HP, but it's worth it once he starts dropping the scares into your lap. Thinking of being in the protagonist's shoes in this story still gives me chills when I think of what he went through, and there are moments when the mere anticipation of a terrible event makes you squirm. A frightful delight.
4th Lovecraft book and this one was so good. I woke up at 3 AM and decided it was the perfect time to finish this horror story...I only wish there had been a thunderstorm going on! You can see how Lovecraft has developed some of the common themes seen in horror stories and movies. This one is a haunted house that is constantly struck by lighting, which unleashed a monster. It has a huge resemblance to The Time Machine and Morlocks. Many more stories to read!!!
You could probably argue that description of degenerate mammals is a way to express writer's own xenophobic inclinations, and turn this tale into some sociological metaphor. But still, there's really no story, just random sights and typical overuse of words such as madness, sacrilege, lurking and lets not forget fear. Short historiography about Martense family and Arthur Munroe's death are the only interesting parts of this excuse for the story.
The elegance of the author's style that does not waste a word on a text plus a scary script filled with terror makes this story a gift and a classic of the genre. I would say more: for me the text is so beautiful and well written that it looks like a poetry. A few times an author manages to imbue beauty into horror. Lovecraft is one of those specials.
