https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/143223.War_in_Heaven
Of the three Inkling fantasy writers Charles Williams is the least known and appreciated.
Yet, his series of supernatural fantasy novels are every bit as interesting and original as the books by C.
Rather than creating a unique secondary fantasy world or shifting between two universes, Williams allows the supernatural to invade his contemporary world.
This allows him to explore the impact of a different reality on different characters.The item that channels the supernatural into the natural in this novel is The Holy Graal (The older spelling of “Grail” preferred by Williams).
This was my first encounter with Charles Williams.
There is no other way to describe reading a Charles Williams novel: it is an experience never to be forgotten.
I believe it is because he didn't glorify evil in any way.
His books deal with that ongoing war between good and evil and the fight for the souls of men.
Although I have not read many of his books (up until recently they have been difficult to find), Charles Williams remains one of my all time favorite authors.

c) I find little credible that a devil possession can be provoked just by rubbing a wound with a certain ointment.ESPAÑOL: Aunque Williams es inigualable cuando describe el proceso de la condenación de un ser humano, en esta novela hay algunas cosas que no me gustaron: a) El deus ex machina que resuelve el problema se presenta a sí mismo como el Preste Juan, Galahad, el Grial, el portador del Grial, María, y en cierto momento también se identifica con Cristo.
I found myself thinking of the differences between modern writing and the stories of not-too-long ago, remembering reading Dickens as a young teen and coping fine with long descriptions that would later bore my sons, knowing as I read that “this is a good author” therefore trusting the story to come.
If War in heaven is anything to go by, they also have fascinating plots, up-to-date mysteries—even a Holy Graal—and complex characters with no simple bad guy/good guy denotations.That last point makes me think they may represent better story-telling than many recent Christian novels I’ve read, though some of the plot-lines make me wonder if they’d be accepted by a modern Christian publishing house.In case you can’t tell, I really rather enjoyed reading War in Heaven.
Wow! Charles Williams was a great friend of Tolkien and C.S.Lewis. He was part of their group called the Oxford Inklings. This novel deals with some fascinating material: the sangraal, and a battle between satanic and heavenly forces on earth. Quite chilling in parts. Take a look at the malleus malificarum in reference to the Witch's Sabbath parts. A bit mind boggling in spots, like reading a whole novel of Neal A Maxwell talks. Heck, he's one of the guys that converted C.S. Lewis to Christianity, he's got to be deep.
War in Heaven by Charles Williams wasn’t the easiest book for me to read. It has a lot of long sentences, not a lot of dialogue, and a lot of talking about things I don’t know (or words I don’t know). And it talked a lot about the devil. However, it really was a tremendous story about faith, and good and evil, and Jesus, and the Eucharist, and the communion of saints. I will never be the same after reading that book. Honestly. It’s affected my faith forever, for the good.
The Goodreads blurb didn't sell it to me, this line from a New Yorker review  did: The jacket copy, anonymous but evidently written by the Faber editor T.
S. Eliot, described Williams’s novels as “supernatural thrillers.”  And then there's the fist line of the book: The telephone bell was ringing wildly, but without result, since there was no-one in the room but the corpse.
The murder mystery is in the opener, but turns its driving power over to the Grail storyline, with its fight between Good and Evil.
This book really didn't do anything for me (sorry Richard!). I found Williams' style a bit clunky - a good example is the fancy dialogue between Kenneth and the Duke when they first meet - and the whole Christians versus devil-worshippers theme had no appeal whatsoever for me. I managed to get through to the end, but only just.Just not my cup of tea, but I can well understand that it would be quite compelling for people who share Williams' beliefs.
I had been meaning to get around to reading this author mainly since he was one of the famous Inklings and a sale on his books helped me to get around to it.This novel is a supernatural thriller and involves the Grail being found in a country parish in England.
It appears that was the case with Charles Williams and he had only stopped attending these meetings three years prior to publishing this book.So I look forward to reading some of his other novels which are also described a spiritual thrillers.
It doesn't have the driving force of "The Exorcist," but its roots are the same: a Manichean Christianity in which good guys and bad guys war over the souls of the undecided.The book is quite personal, focusing the battle upon a small group of English men and women, along with one child, who are drawn together by the re-emergence of the Holy Grail--or "Graal," as Williams preferred.
The Graal, having been the serving vessel at the Last Supper, is a power object: a focus of spiritual forces that may be used for good or evil.
The evil, as in most of these books, is somehow more interesting than the good...
A lovely old fashioned evil publisher, opposed only by an Archdeacon, a Duke and various other persons, plus some forces possibly of angelic origin, or possibly pretending, it isn't really clear to me though the novel probably wants you to assume the former.It is only fair to state that the body count is two murders by the forces of evil and one murder by the forces of good, though one of the first murders could have been prevented had the possibly angelic personage been actually interested in helping rather than swanking around irritating everyone and making gnomic predictions.A knowledge of theology will add to your appreciation of some of the arguments and discussions, but it isn't required.
The author is not fond of pretended Jewish doctors, nor of Chemists.
Really a wild, fun book. This is Williams at his best.Also read in Summer of 2009.
“Oh, damn and blast!” he cried with a great voice. “Why was this bloody world created?”“As a sewer for the stars,” a voice in front of him said. “Alternatively, to know God and to glorify Him forever.” (p. 95)
Though the story is often very dark, with the powers of Hell waxing strong and terrifying, there are moments of levity to balance the gravity.
It is interesting to note the similarities between this and the third book in Lewis's Space Trilogy; it is obvious Jack drew heavily upon his friend's writing style.
It is also interesting to note that Tolkien disliked Williams, and it is possible that Lewis's growing friendship with Williams signified the end of his closeness with Tolkien.
I'm currently reading Descent into Hell, another of William's books.
The Archdeacon of the parsonage isn't really happy about this, and steals it back, and then things get weird as the publisher's two friends get involved.
The side plot with Adrian seem arbitrary too-it's obvious from the end the boy is supposed to grow into someone great, but then why is so little time spent on him, and how does he not get corrupted considering the company Gregory hangs out with?
And I get the point of what happened with his mother, but then why should she be spared while a certain personage dies pretty horribly later on in the book?Plus, I know the Archdeacon is supposed to be a hero, but he spends way too much time in passive appreciation and reverie, and not enough being a hero.
The edition that I read has a cover quote from T.S. Eliot about Charles Williams's novels: "There are no novels anywhere quite like them.
Like C.S. Lewis, deeply concerned with telling an adventure story and with discussing the reality of Christianity; but Lewis usually roots things more concretely, less metaphysically.
Like E.M. Forster's stories where the faun or the Greek god inserts himself into reality.
Not to give anything away (not that I could, honestly), but I wish the detective story was as thoroughly worked out as the religious and mystical interplay.
Williams was in the writing group with Lewis, Tolkien, and Sayers, so I was eager to read this novel.
I had to make a chart to keep up with them and try to keep me interested.
Hate would be a bit strong for me,but it won't be a re-read, nor do I want to pursue more in the series.
There were a few interesting quotes: "The English police are corrupt enough, of course, but the trouble is one doesn't know where they're corrupt, and you may hit on the wrong man." "During the previous day it had become evident in Grosvenor Square that a common spiritual concern does not mean a common intellectual agreement." "It annoyed him as his father had annoyed him by wasting emotions and strength in mere stupid, senile worry."
Williams, a member of the Inklings, that small group of writers that included his friends Tolkien and C.
[This reminds me of Genesis 32:1-2: Jacob also went on his way, and the angels of God met him.
When Jacob saw them, he said, “This is the camp of God!” So he named that place "Two Camps."]In this novel, the struggle between good and evil, Christ and Satan, is played out in the lives of ordinary individuals, some who have surrendered to Christ, some who have surrendered to Satan, and some who are oblivious to the reality of anything beyond their five senses.
Made me think.
The character think and speak in a very traditional English style, which is a lot of fun.
As has been said elsewhere, Williams' style is reminiscent of "That Hideous Strength" by C.S. Lewis.
I think anyone who liked one would likely enjoy the other.
It's in the public domain in Australia; I've purchased a used copy on Amazon (it's available for about $4) to own a license and downloaded it from Project Gutenberg Australia to have it on my Kindle.
(The Charles Williams anthology sold on Amazon is copied directly from Project Gutenberg Australia.)
This is my least favorite of the four Charles Williams novels that I've read.
This book is well written and interesting, but lacks the more interesting wow factor of his other novels.
I should write a Christian novel.
He then proceeds to forget what he is writing, though the elements are still there, it is more an occult novel, but more an adventure book.
The last chapter he remembers that it is supposed to be a christian novel (or one of the inklings intervenes) and he wraps it up in a neat little Christian package.
I really enjoyed this novel, but I can't imagine recommending it to anyone, because the author's perspective is very hard to ascertain.
The prose is cleaner and easier to read than "All Hallows Eve", and the atmosphere is definitely less ethereal.
the story is such a strange mix of Victorian and modern ideas; imagine if H.P. Lovecraft and G.K Chesterton wrote a Father Brown mystery, and then made the mystery a subplot.
Again in this work, as with the previously mentioned "All Hallows Eve", Williams does an excellent job bringing his characters to life.
If the malevolence is doubted so also has been the Benevolence and both have been masked by the venom institutionalized so completely in the digital-hybrid age where there are no boundaries and all is fluid exchange.Williams exposure of evil is as salient as his salvation of the good, but that there can be autonomous force so strictly opposed to all human life has not penetrated the digital, so they are perfect victims, "power to enter into those lives which he touched and twist them out of their security into sliding destruction,' as Gregory Persimmons thinks, while applying his ointment.
I heard of Charles Williams in connection with Lewis & Tolkien many years ago, but never picked up one of his books.
I'm glad that now having read one that it was during a time in my life in which I've been within the Christian faith.
I think much of the book would have been lost on me otherwise; which isn't to say that there still weren't times in which I found myself scratching my head trying to grasp the underlying implications of the story.The story itself was gripping and often disturbing.
Some novels are above your pay grade, War in Heaven skirts that boundary for me.
I am not much into poetry.
But the humour and bumpy tale makes you chuckle at many points.
Starting with a dead person under the desk of a publishing house employee.
Never mind the fact it takes this person over half an hour to discover said person has been strangled!
This is followed by a chase for the Holy Grail that lasts the rest of the novel.
It is truly a war between good and evil don't miss this one!
This lays for the foundation for a grand, poetic drama of spiritual warfare, Arthurian lore, Black Magic, and divine providence.The book’s opening sentence begins with a particularly artful “hook”:"The telephone bell was ringing wildly, but without result, since there was no-one in the room but the corpse."From there, the first part of the book unfolds like a murder mystery, though – unlike most true detective stories – the murderer is revealed to the audience quite near the beginning.
Williams is one of the writers that C. S. Lewis named as an inspiration. He became part of the Inkling group. I have used the word esoteric to refer to him elswhere about another book and I believe it does apply and describe his writing. That being said I highly recommend this book. You will need to think about it and not enter in with your mind in neutral but really, isn't that a good thing?
Not for everyone with its supernatural flavor and sinister portrayal of evil, but a powerful look at the undercurrents we miss in mundane things: the deep mysteries of simple liturgies of life and the little "lapses" that we excuse but that lead into dangerous territory. A very English novel, and made me think of Wodehouse at points, if he had ever waded into theological waters.
I tried to 2 chapters to follow along given the great opening sentence but gave up (as did everyone else in the book club I'm in).
It blended mystery with adventure and the occult, and the setting of England in the 1930s gave a quaint, homely feel to it that nicely complemented the otherworldliness of the Holy Grail and the strange occult rituals Gregory and co.
Although the book itself wasn't creepy, the villains-- Gregory Persimmons, Manasseh, and the unnamed "Greek"--were all extraordinarily creepy people.
That part went: "Kenneth had an impulse to say that he resigned, and another to knock Gregory down and trample on him." The Archdeacon was also a great character, at the same time sublime and at peace with the universe but also getting flustered at hilarious trivialities.
