https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2025462.Wild_Harbour
But how that happens is barely suggested; he is interested in the result, hunger, chaos, fear, every man's hand against another.The main story is the two characters, both carefully developed, Hugh and Terry, as they try to flee entirely from the madness of the rest of humankind when the war begins, hiding in the wild Scottish hills.
But the thread of optimism in this grim story is that there's also better ways to be, and Hugh realizes that he also has that potential.Many post-disaster tales involve a group of survivors getting together to build a new society, and although this one gestures in that direction, it can't get that far.
I had next to no information about this book when I picked it up, apart from it being on the 1001 list. Its theme came as a surprise. I have to admire the anticipation factor put into it. I felt the emphasis was too much on the couple's relationship and feelings (even if it was not mushy in any way) and too little on the social and cultural impact of their historical turn point. A good read, all in all, but I'd have gone for a little more pragmatism.
Started out like Swiss Family Robinson set in the Scottish highlands and then took a very dark turn into an exploration of the barely-hidden brute lurking inside the civilized human and the lengths to which frightened humans will go. This was on a "best books about humans in the wilderness" list, but I was expecting a more conventional "struggle to live in harmony with the land" narrative. Unsettling and relentless.
This was one of the most haunting books I have ever read. The setting in the Highlands of Scotland adds to the general feeling of oppression and futility felt by the main characters and reader.
Given that I like a good outdoorsy survival story, I thought for sure that I would like Ian MacPherson's "Wild Harbour," but it really didn't appeal to me.
the survival story itself wasn't all that enjoyable.The novel follows Terry and Hugh, a couple who decide to head to the hills and live in a cave instead of allowing Hugh to be drafted to fight in the war.
I rolled my eyes at every "Oh, Terry!" In life, I know a few people who could survive in a cave (and a few I'd like to send to one...) and none are anything like these flimsy characters.
This was quite an interesting read.
Terry and Hugh are a married couple living in Scotland.
They are convinced, based on the news of the day, that the world situation is quickly falling apart and that war is right on the horizon.
They move into a cave that they had found on an outing one day in happier times.
With a lot of hard work the cave becomes a fairly safe and comfortable shelter.
However, as both winter and the war move closer, their safety becomes threatened and it becomes apparent that they need to rethink their life choices.
Meh. Sorta boring. Big ending though. Not much characterization.
Presented as diary of Hugh and his wife Terry who escape to the hills of Scotland after he is drafted, this book describes what befalls them for the two seasons they spent hiding in a cave, and what transpires when they find their retreat from the world invaded.This book is long on description.
Finally, the introduction gave away every major detail of the book.
What kept me going was simply the interest in how close to truth the author was able to get in prediction of a world plunged into war shortly after publication.
Wild Harbour was first published in 1936 and in his book, Ian MacPherson foresaw the inevitability of a second world war.
His characters, Hugh and Terry, are a young Scottish couple who do not want to be drawn into the fighting so they make the huge decision to escape to the highlands to live in a cave they once spotted in their travels.
They spend spring, summer and fall in pretty idyllic circumstances, but with the onset of winter, they begin to see roving bands of armed men and realize they are no longer safe in their hideaway.
MacPherson's descriptions of the landscape and the couple's adventures in homesteading make this book well worth reading.
Post-apocalyptic Morayshire folk do Cold War survivalism before the Cold War?
I was of course primed to love this, but it's a lead ball of a book, drab and flattened.
The political economy that drove them out there is completely absent, only represented by sketched armed thugs.
Nor is the world-justifying love of the central couple convincing, either.
The prose does sometimes have a lovely Doric lilt - "We were but young in stealth.
As we drove along the Spey, the silent night was full of ears that harkened to our passing.
Three stars and yet, I'm glad I read it.
Not the best reading I've experienced, but very interesting information.
As they see others joining up they have to decide:  will they support the war, will they kill, can they support the war without killing?
The questions they must face are alone worth the read.
Can they survive being ostracized for their beliefs?
Can they survive killing others?
Can they  survive, period?
So the basic question seems to be what will be more difficult, killing or not killing?
How will they fair if they live against their own beliefs?
Heck what ARE their beliefs?
This book is written as a series of diary entries made by Hugh, husband of Terry and a pacifist. The book written in 1936 but set in 1943 deals with the couple choosing to live in a cave after the outbreak of war. Considering it was written 3 years before the war, MacPherson was only 4 years late in predicting the war, the sense of fear the couple experiences increases as they lose touch with the world and the progression of the war.
Interesting in some aspects, but on the whole strangely bland. The characters are so cut off from human society that their lives appear sterile and the reality of the war never becomes convincing.
A story about survival in a world that feels too real to not relate to the story. It was a very nice read.
I loved this 30's book - prediction of 2nd ww and how a couple deeply in love escape into the scottish highlands to "survive" and so that he is not conscripted. great detail of survival techniques.
