https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/200544.Covenant_with_the_Vampire
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestWe're doing a Halloween 2016 Reading Challenge in the Unapologetic Romance Readers group and one of the categories is a romance novel with blood on the cover. This proved surprisingly difficult, because while 80s and 90s vampire romance novels were content to own up to their gothic horror roots and splatter their covers with blood, modern day vampire romance novels are much more coy and more likely to feature a woman in a prom dress being c
COVENANT WITH THE VAMPIRE is not a romance so I'm technically cheating, but given that the summary of the book speaks of seductive caresses and the hero's intense love for his wife and child, I figured that this was going to be a case of blurred genres.I could not have been more wrong.
Mary and Arkady are starting to suspect that Vlad's servants' inexplicable terror and loathing of their master are perhaps not so inexplicable, after all.To be fair to the book, it is a faithful reimagining of Bram Stoker's original DRACULA.
And I'm glad I came across this book!Similar to the Historian in a way (which is primarily told through a bunch of letters that is found by the story's main character over the course of time), Covenant With The Vampire is told as a series of diary entries written by decendants of Vlad Dracula.Most everybody that's even remotely familiar with the Dracula legend knows some of his true history as well as the folklore: How he sold his soul in order to live beyond the grave, using the blood of the living to grant himself immortality and power.
My favorite book by my favorite author of all time!I simply could not put this book down. It read like music to me and when I was finished I emailed the author. She and I wrote back and forth several times and she was not only kind and geniune, but offered me sage writing advice that helped me in my own writing career!
Well, Kalogridis writes an entertaining vampire story.
It's so nice when you find authors that are good at keeping vampire stories more "believable," rather than just coming off as corny.
I liked the little bit of historical information weaved into the narrative--not quite as in-depth as Kustova's "The Historian," but still nicely done.
I find that exploring the origins of various superstitions throughout history adds to the depth of the tale and makes it more creepy.
When I started this one, I didn't realize it was the beginning of a trilogy, so looks like I have another series to complete!
I’ve tended to shy away from vampire fiction in recent years although I am a huge fan of the original Dracula by Bram Stoker and stories that take place in a similar vein (no pun intended).
The story takes a deep dive into the history of Vlad Dracul and the family tree as Arkady returns from England to his Carpathian home to bury his deceased father.
What follows is pure vampire horror in the traditional gothic horror style as Arkady and his loving wife struggle in a war for their very souls.I liked the writing style of the novel as it is very similar to the original Stoker style, reading like Victorian age literature.
La lectura es dentro de todo amena, esta escrito en forma de diario, cada personaje escribe su propio diario y son estos fragmentos de historia lo que nos llegan.
Al principio de la historia nos vamos enterando de la vida y el pasado de los personajes, si bien no es aburrido porque tiene partes bastantes sombrías, no lograba engancharme del todo con la lectura..
Por como terminó la historia diría que el 2do libro debe estar mucho pero mucho mejor, vamos a ver cuando me voy a la librería a comprarlo *-*
Everything seemed like a rehash of Stoker's novel and the events progressed in pretty similar ways.
The only thing I remember wishing was different about Stoker's novel was the time spent by Harker in Transylvania.
I would've liked to read more about his time in Dracula's realm and that is something this novel provides, although we have a different protagonist.
If you read it on a 'dark and stormy night' (like I read Stoker's novel for the first time)there might be actual frights in there somewhere.
Stoker's novel remains the best one on Dracula, if only for having better pacing.
Muy parecido a "Drácula" de Bram Stoker pero añadiendo el sexo, el gore y lo escabroso en la temática que en la época del original no se permitía escribir.Pero aún así, no deja de ser una copia de "Drácula", sobre todo al principio, que es lo que se me ha hecho tan largo. A más de la mitad del libro la cosa empieza a interesar... cuando el protagonista ¡¡por fin!! se da cuenta de que en el castillo donde vive hay algo raro XDHa cumplido, sin embargo, mis expectativas, así que leeré el segundo de la trilogía.
This series is excellent! It captures a historical voice, but doesn't waste words or time. This series makes Bram Stoker's Dracula looks like just a ring on the hand of an exotic princess. So many things that didn't make sense, make sense now. I enjoy all three books, the original Dracula and Coppola's movie so much more!
review will for tomorrow!
Loved it!!
Diaries of the Family Dracul #1: Covenant with the Vampire, by Jeanne Kalogridis"Covenant with the Vampire" is the first in a trilogy about the family Dracul, and is a prequel to Stoker's classic "Dracula." Arkady Tsepesh and his wife Mary journey to Transylvania from London; Arkady is returning to his childhood home after the death of his father.
Her explanations for Vlad's past and present, and the origin of vampires are creative, and even fit into "Dracula." The characters are compelling; but the format of the story is a little limiting.
"Covenant with the Vampire" is written in a diary format, alternating between Arkady, Mary, and Zsuzsanna.
I actually would like to give this three and a half stars...I really enjoyed the story, with the new take on the Dracula legend.
It's a great interpretation on the legend, and a way to make it fresh again.
Kalogridis used waaaaaay too many $2 words when normal everyday language would've made more impact.
I think Anne Rice does the "sensual vampire" thing way better, and it felt like Kalogridis was just reaching for that but not quite getting there.Overall, a good read, and recommended for vampire literature enthusiasts.
Escrito con el estilo del Dracula de Bram Stoker, apuntes de diarios, la visión de un primogénito de la descendencia de Vlad Tepes, su esposa embarazada y su hermana enferma, unidos en Transilvania tras la muerte de su padre y el vínculo con el tío abuelo Vlad Tepesh.
¿Que hay detrás del pacto de Dracul?
Tantas generaciones de primogénitos y parientes deformes, dan paso a la evolución de un conflicto entre alguien que no era su destino ser el indicado para continuar el pacto, pero si el ideal para romperlo o para modificarlo...muy buen libro, incluido en mi colección del Dracula de Stoker y La Historiadora de Kostova.
Works like those by the brilliant Anne Rice are being ignored since they are just as much "historical" as they are "Vampirific" Indeed, a number of novels have tried to attached themselves to the Dracula legacy started by Bram Stoker.
this book is an exception.Written in the same style of letters and journal entries that the original Stoker novel was composed in, the prose echoes the time period in mood and sensibilities.
Mysterious and gruesome, seductive and heart-breaking, it is a worthy novel to stand beside the original of your bookshelf.
The author does a good job of creating atmosphere and mood.
However, through the first 300 pages the story unfolds maddeningly slowly, then she crams so many developments into the last 50 pages that your head will spin.
And then to find out that the whole book is just the set-up for the sequel made me want to scream.
Apparently, I like my vampires to be self-loathing and relatively harmless.
Which means I like Anne Rice's Lestat and Stephenie Meyer's Cullens, but beyond that I'm not a big vampire fan.
In other words, I want the superhero, not the bad guy.
It's Dracula and somewhat accurate to the history, but it throws in Elizabeth Bathory at the end of the series (which is awesome!). It's a very good read, but I will warn you, it's even a bit angsty and twisted. It's the evil Dracula that we're taught about in school (or rather, I was). It even has Van Helsing, or one of his children--it's a good twist of a story.
I read this book eons ago, I had taken it out from the library, and years later I couldn't for the life of me remember what the title was and its been driving me crazy because I wanted to read it again.The series is a really original take on an old story and I've finally been able to find it again and re-read it. Its just as awesome the second time around! I'm so glad I found it again!
I spent the first 320 pages yawning and comparing the characters to those of Stoker’s famous tale. I’m glad I managed to finish the book—talk about a surprise ending! I still don’t care about the characters, but I want to see that slimy bloodsucker get his just desserts.
Me costo mucho leer esta novela, me pareció densa. El final fue lo mejor; me dejó sorprendida! No es una saga que voy a continuar
What a beautiful and horrific tale of the Tsepesh/Dracul family; otherwise known as family of Dracula. A must read for those who love gothic vampire tales.

Set 40 or 50 years before Dracula, this novel shows that the wily old count was up to his dirty tricks before Jonathan Harker was a gleam in his father’s eye.
Whether it’s still in print or not I don’t know, but I will keep an eye out for the sequels.Just a note of caution that while this wasn’t as erotic or terrifying as the cover suggested it does have some very dark elements and is very much old-fashioned ‘the vampire is the bad guy’ horror (good!) not the more modern anti-hero/pathetic sick victim vampire that seems to abound in urban fantasy today.
This was an incredibly well-crafted novel, written in diary form, similar to Bram Stoker's original Dracula.
.Arcady Tsepesh is the great-nephew of Vlad Tsepesh, but is unaware that his relative is not just an 80-year-old prince, but the original Vlad the Impaler, 400 years old and a true vampire.
With the diary entries of Arcady and his English-born wife Mary, this novel tells the story of familial love, regret and betrayal in the years before Stoker's Dracula storyline begins..This tale is much easier to follow than Dracula, in that there are fewer diarists to confuse the timeline or point-of-view.
Kalogridis has created a masterful beginning to what is sure to be a wonderful series.
Esta trilogía es simplemente genial, te da otra perspectiva de Drácula de Bram Stoker, que te deja con muchas emociones y querer saber aun mas, y muchos de los personajes ni te imaginas que pueden ser parientes de Drácula :o
Great book series
I absolutely loved this book! I couldn't put it down! What a great vampire novel. I can't wait to read the rest of the trilogy.
I really liked it! It kept me interested and I wanted to keep reading! I don't think that the diary format was the greatest though that's why I gave it 4 stars. Other than that it was great!
Covenant With the Vampire plays with the story of Dracula in a fun way. It keeps the tone and format of the Bram Stoker’s novel so it feels like a legitimate prequel.
excellent
