https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31333.Violin
Quite possibly the worst book I've ever read.
Take all of Anne Rice's worst traits as a writer--her self-indulgence, how long-winded and overly detailed she can be, her narcissism--all of it comes full circle to create this piece of crap book.
I think it's her fantasy come to life, which is why it's so bloody terrible.
The one and only good part of this book is when she tells the story of the violinist.
I wish this book had been completely about the violinist.
That might have made it a worthwhile read.
Several years ago, I bought it with more than 70& discount. I still wish I could get my money back. haha.
Perhaps it was my state of mind that predisposed me to a rather intimate understanding of this book and its main character.I am familiar with guilt, that special guilt that can only be born in the crucible of a highly religious childhood.
And I have a tendency to take responsibility for things that are largely outside of my control, simply because I can see the cause and affect so clearly, and am able very easily to see where I could have done better, reacted better, been more accessible, been more loving...The reviews largely slammed the book as self-indulgent twaffle.
Or perhaps it's a book that Anne Rice needed to write for HERSELF.
Most boring book I've ever read. I'd recommend vcr manuals over this.
Considering the level of all Anne Rice's books that I have already read, this one was a complete let down.
How upset I was when I found that this book actually tells the story of a woman in such a depression level that it get actually annoying.
Not Triana's.As for the main character, she tells her weird, non-violin related, stupid story about her bizarre past.The only part of the book that I effectively liked (and, in my opinion, should've been the core of the book since the first page) was Stephan's story, which could have been better explored but only lasted 10 or 20 pages.
My daughters, one perhaps more than the other, urged Anne Rice and her works on me and I resisted.
Years afterward, I sought out a copy and read it and found myself drowning in one of those books which sweep the reader under and into the current before they know what's happening -- and just as suddenly the reader finds themselves coming up for air as the book ends and tosses them aside.
I will read this one again one day -- meanwhile it holds a place of honor on the shelves among my books and looks lovely.
Honestly the worst waste of time a book has ever been. Hours of my precious life were wasted reading about a fat middle-aged woman sobbing and snotting over a ghost and the violin she stole from him. Pointless, meaningless, frustrating and boring. Goodness only knows how I found the determination to finish it.
This is quite literally the WORST BOOK I'VE EVER READ; evoking the great discomfort that is felt when one stumbles upon the private diary of a twisted, manic-depreasive old woman who is as conceited as she is insecure.I hated all the emotional ramblings and the unnecessarily detailed and repetitive intrusion into people's lives while they took a sh!t and discarded their period blood.
It needn't have been made public!There is no plot, no proper character development; just aimless emotional ramblings and a crying 25 year old ghost who miraculously has his ass repeatedly kicked by a 55year old hag, who is most definitely based on Anne Rice herself.Rubbish, rubbish,rubbish!
¡Desconcertante!Me ha encantado en este libro la capacidad de Rice de sacarte sentimientos, sensaciones....No es una historia típica que tenga principio, trama y final.Al principio puede liar un poco, por la falta de costumbre, y no saber si se está en la realidad o en los sueños o visiones y no siguen un orden cronológico los acontecimientos, cosa que ya se avisa al principio del texto.En muchas ocasiones turbador.
I have a great friend who is an Anne Rice lover to the core and she kept telling me 'You have got to read some of her stuff'', 'I really think you would like Anne Rice, Pick up one of her books' and so on.
My local library isn't big by any means nor does it have all the books I would like it to but it does the trick, I found where Anne Rice's books were and began to sift through what I should get-The cover that caught my eye was that of her stand alone novel Violin.
I've always liked Anne Rice. She throws in just the kind of details into her stories that get me interested from the very beginning. Violin is a stand-alone tale, and a good one at that. The soul of this story is music...its heart is the fulcrum between despair and hope. Not sure what I mean by that? Sit back and let her explain it all.
seriously? If I want to be that depressed I will think of dying babies and poke myself in the eye. I really tried to like this. I just could not get past the florid sweeps of melancholy, and all the blah blah blah. Save this for therapy Anne.
VIOLIN rightfully deserves more than one visit, deserves my precious time again and again!
The exact kind of book I literally ENJOY reading probably because nobody understands it.
Not a book for people who enjoy "good reads" and that's probably why so many people hate it.
And each character introduced plays an important and effective role even if just for a little bit in the book.
The ending is absolutely heartbreaking and uplifting at the same time.
She can never write something like this again, and that's how I like it.Read this book.
Read it again.
Just a short revue. A poorly done Mary Sue. Whatever happened to the author that wrote Interview With the Vampire and A Cry to Heaven?
She is driven into even deeper despair when the ghost of a handsome Russian violinist named Stefan Stefanovsky, a virtuoso at his art, comes to her with haunting music played on his precious Stradivarius.Although Anne Rice does a pretty decent job at making the narration musical in rhythm, the constant repetition of Triana's woes is both boring and irritating.
She is one of the primary reasons why I cannot rate this book higher than a two.Stefan, although much more interesting than Triana, is still a rather dull character: moody, unpredictable, and without properly explained motivations.One of the biggest problems this novel has is its unexplained plot points.
Tedious, boring, depressing - pick one or more.
This book called to me from the library shelf when I was learning to play the violin, something that I always wanted to do.
I was just discovering the connection between playing the violin, and the musician's mood.
It is amazing, but if I'm anxious (not necessarily about playing - I could be practicing with no audience at all) or in a bad mood, I can't play the violin at all.
Anyway, the book is very obsessive, and haunting, and I enjoyed it, but that might have been just where I was at the time.
I can also see why others called it tedious.
As usual I am amazed at Anne Rice's writing style. It's like being under an enchantment when I read her work! Such a spellbinding tale of misery, mourning, hope, renewal and above all, music.
I didn't finish this book, it's just too weird for me to handle right now. Seriously, it was just all sorts of messed up.WTF.
Todo el asunto del fantasma violinista ha sido muy interesante, pero podría haber sido mejor.Mi problema número uno con Anne Rice es su estilo de escritura.
Es una parte muy pesada donde no pasa absolutamente nada.Afortunadamente, conozco a Anne Rice, y sé que sus libros tardan en empezar así que le di el beneficio de la duda.
Toda esa parte me la terminé en un día, mientras que la primera mitad tardé casi cinco días en avanzarla.Ya en Viena, descubriendo el pasado de Stefan, nuestro violinista fantasma, la historia se va a un muy buen ritmo.
Es en esa historia donde leí a la Anne Rice que conozco de los libros vampíricos.
I've waited a long time to give this book a proper review.
I read many of the reviews by other readers to try and gather my thoughts on this.
This fat middle aged woman is disgustingly rich and keeps getting richer the entire book and yet thinks nothing of it.
I'm fairly certain that Anne Rice culturally appropriates and misrepresents several people in this novel, and it seems like something taken out of her fantasies/diary, and is way too personal and clearly about herself or what she "hopes" would be her life.
Very disappointed and I honestly wish I hadn't wasted my time on this.
One of the worst books I've ever read.
Every time I read a book of hers I want more than anything to live in New Orleans, bless her.
Anne Rice has a way with her writing and her characters that make you wish and dream you were the heroine, with these magical creatures showering their affection on you.
******************When Triana takes his violin, however, I started taking more frequent breaks in reading.
I'd have preferred that she had no talent again and that her sister Faye was dead, but we can't always have it our way I suppose.**************** END SPOILERS *******************************************Overall this book was another magical addition to my Anne Rice collection, though at the moment it is probably my least favorite.
Here we have Triana, a middle-aged, death-obsessed (possibly insane?) woman who is in the depths of despair over her husband's recent death.
Stefan, who died rather violently, appears to drive Triana even more insane.
How this relates to driving pathetic mortals nuts, I'm not sure.
Instead of going crazy, Triana steals Stefan's ghostly violin and begins to play like she never could on earthly instruments.
Finally they end up in a costal South Ameriican town Triana has dreamed about and where, for some reason, Stefan didn't want her to be.
Triana finally gives the ghostly violin back to Stefan and the two part ways.Neither of the characters was appealing.
Le récit démarre, qui l'eut cru dans le cadre de la Nouvelle-Orléan, ville pour laquelle l'auteur do
The same points are hit again and again almost verbatim throughout the novel.
The ending was also forced and abrupt, everything wrapped up like a neat bow within 10 pages and very little explanation.
I think she was trying to write her novel like a piece of music, an opera perhaps with reoccurring themes and clashing yet harmonious melody lines, but she tried way too hard and ended up with a meandering mess.
I've read novels that felt like music before, but they have to have a passion this one lacks and it helps if the story creates the music rather than the other way around.
I was sucked into the pulsating rage of depression like an undertow the first time I read it, (which is is not so surprising since I was 17 when it came out, teenage angst galore).
I was dealing with some pretty large, life-altering events at that time, which is probably why this struck a chord.I admit to not wanting to read it again for fear of spoiling the effect/memory of that first reading.
So I appear to differ from many reviewers that I have read here in that respect.So I recommend this one, WITH CAUTION!
Be prepared for angst and melodrama.
It's rather easy to see this book as having all the elements of the vampire novels, but nothing of the charm and spice.It felt long and laggy in spots, and poorly edited in others.
But the characters didnt grab me like the vampires did.
I didnt really feel any of the characters plights.
All in all, a quick read, but not nearly as good as some of the vampire novels.
Stick to that for good Rice supernatural.Having said that, one cant help but feel there was more than a lot of Rice in this novel with its characters.
Reseña completa en mi bloghttp://drdeadwish.blogspot.com.ar/201...La primer mitad del libro peca de depresiva-opresiva, pero es la mejor sin lugar a dudas.
Tal vez sea porque tengo cierta empatía con el estilo de la autora, pero decididamente logra transmitir todo ese dolor desgarrador.
Esto es una búsqueda deliberada (y efectiva) que no muchos lectores comprenden, y abandonan el libro por denso y depresivo.
Cuando llegamos al clímax, casi no se lo reconoce como tal, y el final es, muy al estilo de Anne Rice, lo más flojo del libro por mucho.
Es más, creo que es el peor final de todos los libros de Rice que leí.
The beginning was exciting and a page turner.
I like how Anne Rice's characters develop themselves through their interactions with the others in the book.
Also, I applaud her for her characters not being teenagers.
And there's a ghost!
I was loving this book, but was really dissapointed.
I get it that she had family members that died.
I've lost close people in my life, so I know how it's easy to constantly dwell on them, but get on with it!
The character was constantly in a daze.
I felt like I was trapped in the mind of a crazy, incoherent person.
Now I will read just about anything that seems mildly interesting and I love (or used to love) Anne Rice, but I never made it through this book.
It is very rare that I don't finish a book, but this one just held no interest for me.
How could I possibly be interested in the author as the main character?
Now, if like Stephen King, she had actually just come out and said she was the main character and sandwiched herself discreetly into the book somewhere, it would have been a different story.
