https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/38462.Giovanni_s_Room
He meets Giovanni, not because he is looking for someone, but because he is paying the price of borrowing money from Jacques, an old lecherous American business man who will lend you money, but it will cost you time entertaining him with your presence and your conversation.
Jacques finds Giovanni attractive and hopes that David can convince the young man to have a drink with them.
James Baldwin in Paris.David is astute enough to recognize that this is not just a fling for Giovanni, but a true attempt to not only find love, but to also escape the past, the present, and an increasingly gloomy looking future.
His love for Giovanni has made love for Hella impossible, and marriage to her would be a constant reminder of what he has lost.Giovanni is a derivative from the Hebrew for "God's Gift" - and he is a blessing to David.
It is not love or deference for Hella which makes David give up Giovanni, but his own blindness and self-hatred.
He is not deserving of Giovanni's love, and it makes us hateful to ourselves, even the most selfish of us, to receive something in the name of our merits when we have not lived up to those merits.
A lyrical work of fiction about the failure of love, Giovanni's Room retraces the missteps that led an impassioned affair between two men away from the promise of happiness toward catastrophic ruin.
The first-person narrator's ever-present despair casts a melancholic shadow over the events he recollects, even those that might at first appear to be pleasant.
From the start, the reader and narrator share an understanding of the story's devastating and inalterable conclusion, making it that much more difficult for both to trek through the memory of misfortune after misfortune.
Giovanni's Room isn't an easy book to read, but it is an important one.
Yet, I want to convince you to read this book if you have not, because you would surely be missing out on some of the best writing in the literary world if you pass it by.David is an American who has escaped to Paris in an attempt to ‘find himself.’ We hear this story directly from David’s first-person narration, allowing us to have a very intimate relationship and struggling with him in his deepest conflicts and darkest secrets.
Wow...I read only one review of this book...which was soooo good....I immediately bought a used copy....yet, I don't think 'any' review prepares a reader for what they are about to experience. I have two words: Morally Mystifying!!!! THANK YOU *Lizzy*. I stayed....and I 'was' granted this masterpiece.
Told in the first-person narrator, Giovanni's Room bewilders the reader because of the perturbing sensitivity with which Baldwin portrays an extremely delicate predicament; that of listening to the self-deprecating inner voices that corrode the consciousness of those who deny their true selves for the sake of indoctrinated conventionalism and a false sense of security.
Deep down, David's dilemma runs deeper than his stubborn denial for the sake of appearances, his moral struggle discloses a man who doesn't want to dispense with the inborn social status associated to gender.
This story was wonderfully-written and explored a gay storyline which I have never encountered in African-American writing from Baldwin's era.Supposedly quite a few prolific African-American writers were not such big fans of Baldwin due to this reason.This story is set in Paris and is about an American man, David, who is in love with both a man, Giovanni, and a woman, Hella.
There's more to the story than the gay storyline, though.
Questions are raised about authenticity, the meaning of home, whether we act out of fear or love, etc.I can honestly say, I have never read writing quite like it before.
وراء كل سعادة تختفي تعاسة ووراء كل متعة يختفي خوف___________الحديث عن المثلية أمر شائك دوما في كل مكان وزمانلا تظن أن الغرب قد تخلص من عقدة العنصرية حتى بين أبناء جلدته ووطنهفلا يزال المثلي يعامل باضطهاد شنيعيصل للقتل في أحايين كثيرةنحن دوما أعداء ما نجهلودوما أعداء كل ما هو مختلفودما تسبقنا كراهيتنا للآخر قبل تفهمناهذا إن تفهمناكلناعائلة البشر الكبيرة هذه تبدو مخزية في أحايين كثيرةجيوفاني هو الإيطالي المثلي الذي يقع في حب ديفيدولكن ديفيد لديه خطيبة وهو لا يؤمن بالحب كثيراوديفيد يقع في الصراع ال
وراء كل سعادة تختفي تعاسة ووراء كل متعة يختفي ‏خوف‏‎‏___________الحديث عن المثلية أمر شائك دوما ‏في 
Read for Book Riot's 2017 Read Harder Challenge: #17 Read a classic by an author of color*3.75/5*This was a super enjoyable read!
I went into this not really knowing what to expect, and I was pleasantly surprised by how modern this felt, even though it was published in the 1950s.
The way Baldwin approached the affair of the two main characters, who are both men, was so effortless and accepting, which I found to be really refreshing.
It is cruel to have made me want to live only to make my death more bloody."Giovanni’s room is a safer haven for the love that is offensive beyond those walls, the dark and messy confines of the room suffocates David but Giovanni finds solace in, the place littered with every kind of worldly trash, is the celestial heaven for the later, as he views in David a true embodiment of love, the kind of love that can be nurtured for ages to come, and be watered on the soul of heart and never dies a natural death, as for David,“What kind of life can we have in this room?–this filthy little room.
He ability to articulate the struggle to be a man in a world where both black men and gay men were considered 2nd class (if lucky) citizens taught me.
In Giovanni's room, Baldwin carves his pain and his struggle with fire into the oppressive clouds of the Parisian night.
Yes, the man was certainly all those, but he was also so much more.I don't want to come across as presumptuous, but I think Baldwin would reject the idea that this is a gay novel.
I think Baldwin is expressing the anguish and the pain felt by ALL those who are denied (for whatever reason) the ability to freely love.
Here's what l shall do: buy all Baldwin's books, every single one and just read them all. Back to back to back to back... What a genius this man is. What impeccable, perfect writing. How can a story contained in just 159 pages pack such a punch? HOW?!Let the record show that on this day James Baldwin officially, OFFICIALLY became my favorite writer (2nd only to Toni Morrison at whose feet I humbly bow perpetually).
His writing shakes me to my very core, I feel so vividly all the emotions described, the contradicting war within the world and within the self between hot, flaming fire and ice cold water, between fervent heat and stone cold detachment.
The motif of water and the ocean and its metaphorical association with time, Giovanni's room itself, the inescapable self and claustrophobia particularly struck me- I feel overwhelmed and shaken by this tragic, beautiful, poignant and haunting novel.
I long to read another of Baldwin's books.
Love, love, love, love, love this. Baldwin, be mine! This is such a gorgeously written little novel. I can't conceive of how Baldwin fit so much sheer emotion into around 150 pages. Baldwin is practically unknown here in Ireland and it's such an injustice. I want everyone to read this and be in awe of the sheer brilliance of it. (Fans of Isherwood would love this btw)
Then the door is before him. There is darkness all around him, there is silence in him. Then the door opens and he stands alone, the whole world falling away from him. And the brief corner of the sky seems to be shrieking, though he does not hear a sound. Then the earth tilts, he is thrown forward on his face in darkness, and his journey begins.  Sometimes you read a book and you suddenly find yourself hijacked by a form of spellbinding intensity that spews from a participant narrator. You're
Blame it on his story of self-conflict and melancholy, of reflection and remorse, of truth and lies and anything that embeds itself within the fabric of a life marred by deceit.
The story starts in the present tense, with David (our narrator) reflecting on his life with Giovanni, his male lover.
I am too various to be trusted." And then the story veers to the past tense, when David tells us the story from Giovanni's Room, a setting that was once the center of his life.
David the American doesn’t want to admit he has homosexual impulses.
His fiancée, Hella, doesn’t know he’s gay because David doesn’t know it.
Giovanni and David do it in the former’s squalid room, which David sees as a metaphor for punishment and grief, for poverty.
(?) Now Hella is returning from Spain where she has gone briefly to think about whether she wants to marry David.
David is set to dump Giovanni because he doesn’t want to be a faggot.
Giovanni, driven mad by lost love, will be guillotined for a grisly crime.
"You do, sometimes, remind me of the kind of man who is tempted to put himself in prison in order to avoid being hit by a car." This insightful observation is made by Giovanni, to his lover David. An American in Paris, David is escaping from the conventional expectations he feels from his father, and pretty much everyone else in greater society. In Paris, he feels freer to live and love more honestly. But even in Paris, he and Giovanni are trapped in a shabby room with sightless windows, lest a
An American in Paris, David is escaping from the conventional expectations he feels from his father, and pretty much everyone else in greater society.
In Paris, he feels freer to live and love more honestly.
David doesn't realise that the suffocating closet he lives in has nothing whatsoever to do with Giovanni's room.
They are tempting like that, and they can be that treacherous, and they can seem to be that bottomless, you know?
This book addresses the specifics of living and loving out loud, using the example of being homosexual in an unaccepting world.
There is debate as to whether Baldwin is focussing on bisexuality, but you have to look at the context and the sense that the two main characters are on a journey of self discovery with varying degrees of acceptance.The two main protagonists are David and Giovanni.
David goes out for a drink with a gay acquaintance and meets Giovanni who is working in a bar.
A passionate affair ensues, focussed on the room where Giovanni lives and where David spends much of his time.
Giovanni representing the passionate and unreasoning: David representing Apollo, more reserved, cerebral with the repression of emotion and denial of feeling.
I plan to read a bit more about Balwin and this novel.As I was reading Giovanni's Room I had to remind myself several times that the main character, David, an American in Paris, was a white man.
Giovanni's small, cluttered, dirty room is a metaphor of sorts for David's complex feelings, especially when he knows the time is approaching when he has to make a decision - to have a respectable life that includes a wife and kids or to give in to his preferences?It's important to remember that this was published in 1959.
The fact that it was written by a black man, way before the Civil movement, makes this novel even more significant.Baldwin's writing is beautifully lyrical and packaged tightly.
You know it didn’t last from the beginning of the book, but as the affair proceeds, you feel the delicious wonder of their love that is so liberating, you want it to last forever.
The power and the promise and the mystery of that body made me suddenly afraid.
The body suddenly seemed the black opening of a cavern in which I would be tortured till madness came, in which I would lose my manhood.
Precisely, I wanted to know that mystery and feel that power and have that promise fulfilled through me.
"If your countrymen think that privacy is a crime, so much the worse for your country..." Love is(n't) enough.Love is(n't) enough in how it's done. Love is(n't) enough in how it's pressed upon and consolidated and ultimately allowed. When you look at it, especially when looking is all that's allowed, you start to feel that it's how it's always been, and you are the same as anyone. Unless you talk, which here on out is (never) the case. But feeling, though. That's the compass of your crime. It b
You're not the only one fumbling in the dark of man loves woman when each acts as so, you're not the only one realizing the gap between living and a life, you're not the first to discover that noose around your neck, so why the running?
You ignored the truth of women surviving in the 1950's, you belittled the love of a man with far more than you to lose, and wrenched yourself out of your belovedly loathed dreamland in as bloody a manner as can be.
In James Baldwin’s words:They said I was a Negro writer and I would reach a very special audience.
So here we have a black writer presenting a gay love story about white people.
I can see why – this is a novel about a (white) American guy in Paris who’s proposed marriage to a woman who’s gone off for a few weeks to think about it (she has her issues too) and in the meantime he’s swept giddily into a love affair with a very handsome Italian waiter, with whom he ends up living, in the famous room, whilst horrifiedly waiting for The Fiancée to return, at which point he has to figure out what to do.
Molto bello, e ricco, denso, stratificato.Erwin Blumenfeld.Trent’anni dopo averlo scritto, Baldwin ne parlava così:La stanza di Giovanni è su cosa succede se hai paura di amare un’altra persona.E infatti un passo del romanzo recita:Qualcuno, disse Jacques, tuo padre o il mio, ci avrebbero dovuto dire che non sono mai state molte le persone morte d’amore.
Non si sposeranno.E qui, forse, ha davvero ragione Baldwin, “La stanza di Giovanni” è su cosa succede se hai paura di amare un’altra persona: perché per David anche con Hella non funziona, l’amore è autoimposto fino a che non si può più andare oltre, e il gioco è smascherato, il velo cade, e si rimane soli.
Is this what you should do to love?'Everything in the book, pales in contrast to that central scene when David returns to the room to collect his belongings, and Giovanni is sitting naked on the edge of the bed, willing with every fibre of his being for David to change his mind.
The events of their love affair and Giovanni's subsequent actions are told in flashback, interspersed through the forward action of the novel.But Baldwin is commited to a tragedy and his plot grinds ruthlessly towards murder.
What the fuck are you talking about?Even after having read this book, I cannot, for the life of me, choose to be gay.
that's not how it works...Here, random person possibly growing more and more offended with every line of this false dialogue (psssst...
I know, right!), let me explain.Whiny bitches from a bygone age found this book disgusting and felt sure that it would spread the GAY AGENDA!
I keep hearing how whiny and triggered this new generation is today, but when you look back at the "good ol' days", you find that previous generations were scared of fucking EVERYTHING: gay people and women and commies and invisible men.
Baldwin picked up where Gore Vidal left off in The City & the Pillar.
This novel renders Vidal’s effort a tame, breezy vacation at the hotel de homo, sizzling as it does with dirty-realist conflict, torturous identity politics, and one of the whiniest lovers since Courtney Love hooked up with the entire population of Iran.
One frustrating conflict—Baldwin wanted to escape the “Negro writer” ghetto, so made his characters (it would seem) white in this novel.
Imagine the stink if he’d written about a black man-on-man romantic affair.
In escaping his cage he might have bypassed the opportunity of the century.
Love this man.
Το βιβλίο δεν αφορά τόσο την ομοφυλοφιλία όσο το τι συμβαίνει όταν είσαι τόσο φοβισμένος που δεν μπορείς να αγαπήσεις κανέναν. Νομίζω ότι η παραπάνω πρόταση συνοψίζει όλο το νόημα και την ουσία αυτού του βιβλίου!Για την υπόθεση δεν έχω να πω κάτι παραπάνω, τα γράφει πολύ ωραία στο οπισθόφυλλο.Πολύ δυνατό, πολύ έντονο, με μια ρέουσα γραφή, άλλες φορές πιο μελαγχολική και άλλες φορές οργισμένη.Ένα βιβλίο για τον φόβο του να αισθάνεσαι και του να το παραδέχεσαι πρώτα από όλα στον εαυτό σου, και το
Νομίζω ότι η παραπάνω πρόταση συνοψίζει όλο το νόημα και την ουσία αυτού του βιβλίου!Για την υπόθεση δεν έχω να πω κάτι παραπάνω, τα γράφει πολύ ωραία στο οπισθόφυλλο.Πολύ δυνατό, πολύ έντονο, με μια ρέουσα γραφή, άλλες φορές πιο μελαγχολική και άλλες φορές οργισμένη.Ένα βιβλίο για τον φόβο του να αισθάνεσαι και του να το παραδέχεσαι πρώτα από όλα στον εαυτό σου, και του πώς αυτός ο φόβος είναι ικανός να σε καταστρέψει, εσένα και τους γύρω σου, να σε ρημάξει, μέχρι να μην νιώθεις τίποτε πια.Ορισμένα μόνο από τα αγαπημένα μου κομμάτια:Οι άνθρωποι, όμως δυστυχώς, δεν μπορούν να επινοήσουν τα αραξοβόλια τους, τους εραστές και τους φίλους τους, όπως δεν μπορούν να επινοήσουν και τους γονείς τους.
How to review this book? A book that shares such angst of pain, shame, tortured love and guilt. The power of these emotions. That guilt can turn something sweet into hate. This is such a powerful book. James Baldwin was such a gifted writer to give voice to this kind of emotion and introduce these themes to an unforgiving audience back when this was a risky thing to do but how he managed to do it with such a tenderness and skill to evoke the passion along with the sorrow. Amazing work.
A wise and painful book, it speaks of authenticity and home and loss, how we convince ourselves to make irrevocable mistakes and how these choices harden in us and reveal themselves to strangers.
This is a book I want to own and make room for.
I've just finished it and it's impossible for me not to feel guilty, wondering what crimes I've committed against the people I love or just know, not intentionally but out of fear and from trying not to be hurtful, from wanting to be a good person.
Who knew a great book could make you feel so awful about yourself?
Best work of fiction I have read for months. Very french in terms of the claustrophobic discussions of lovers trapped in the miasma of cigarettes and doubt. I wanted to reach out and scream, to intervene, to prevent. A very powerful novel and a great way to kickstart pride month. What a fantastic introduction to the work of James Baldwin.
