https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/958670.Summer_Will_Show
Sylvia Townsend Warner was a female writer with Communist sympathies in love with a female poet when she wrote this story of an upper-class Englishwoman, Sophia Willoughby, who falls in love with her husband's Jewish mistress Minna Lemuel in Paris and who becomes embroiled in the French revolution of 1848.
It's much more the story of Sophia's changing politics and class loyalties than it is one of "lesbian love." In her introduction to this edition, Claire Harman calls the book "this lesbian novel" and quotes Terry Castle on "[t]he typical lesbian fiction." The main character, however, has had only two romantic experiences in her life: one with her caddish husband, with whom she falls out of love almost as soon as they come back from the honeymoon, and with Minna Lemuel, who is herself clearly bisexual.
I read this a few years ago and gave it three stars. On my re-read, that has been raised to five. Such a wonderful novel. The moral of the story is always re-read, kids.
‘Summer Will Show’ was wonderful, a novel calculated to appeal to me as it combines feminism with revolutionary upheaval in 19th century Paris - two of my favourite subjects.
Sophia is the point of view character, an intelligent, capable, and independent woman unsuited to life as a wife and mother.
Frustrated with life, Sophia travels to Paris with a vague plan of confronting her husband and his mistress.
As soon as she meets the mistress, Minna, the pair form a strong bond, fall in love, and move in together.Frederick is consistently depicted as Sophia’s inferior in all respects and a generally bad person.
Boring is the Word of the DayboringADJECTIVENot interesting; tedious.Quite frankly this was a disappointment which was a surprise.
It was pleasant enough at first, perhaps because the English setting suited the protagonist - however when the action shifted to Paris then it began to taste blander with each turned page.
The main character (Sophia Willoughby) was so cold and reserved that I couldn't relate to her even in her distresses.
Dull, Bland and Boring.As for the setting that was another disappointment.
This was set in Paris, during a revolution!
Things should be exciting!
Things weren't.
But Sophia, in a sort of revolution, takes herself to Paris - alone.
I thought for much of this novel that the author had deftly overlaid this revolution of an individual with that of the French.
I'll simply remark that I did not like the direction of the last approximately one quarter of the novel.The prose is very readable, even though it occasionally doesn't flow as smoothly as prose of the later 20th Century.
Sophia - and a few others - looked upon the Jewish characters stereotypically.
My unrequitable love affair with Ms. Warner continues. More detailed review to come.*************** My love is of a birth as rareAs ‘tis of object strange and high,It was begotten by despairUpon impossibility. Readers of my recent fiction reviews will know that I’ve been carrying on a literary love affair with Sylvia Townsend Warner these last few months. With Summer Will Show, the third of her novels I’ve read, that “passionate” relationship continues. Once again Warner creates a remarkable cha
Once again Warner creates a remarkable character in Sophia Willoughby and presents her life in beautifully crafted, natural prose.Sophia Willoughby is a model, upper-class British wife: She has two children, Damian and Augusta; a beautiful home (her family’s); she maintains a properly distant but kind relationship with her servants; and has a wastrel husband, Frederick, who lives in Paris with a Jewish mistress.
The remainder of the novel, set against the backdrop of the Revolution of 1848, chronicles how Sophia breaks the chains that have bound her all her life and her developing relationship with Minna.In Summer Will Show, Warner becomes ever more confident in her depiction and celebration of sexual, social and political transgressions.
Well that was unexpectedly brilliant.
While Minna the "Jewess" serves as the exotic, Orientalized Jew, the depictions of Jewish revolutionaries, while sympathetic, also partake in the Jew-as-strange-and-crippled-Other stereotype.) I like the uncertainty and confusion on the city streets that Warner evokes, but I really didn't care about these conflicts, and the resolution (that Sophia discovers that she really cares about Communism) feels very tidy and tacked-on, much like the Marxist conversion at the conclusion of Native Son.I would really have liked more time spent with Minna and Sophia in their apartment, coming to understand their companionship and intimacy.
This is the first STW I've read in ages, but the deep satisfaction of it is amazing. Like watching old movies on TV, you keep asking; why don't they write them like this anymore? Lovely, lovely...
Unlike the complex, difficult, and ultimately ambiguous The Corner That Held Them, this novel is the story of a single, fully-realised character during one period in her life.
Unlike Lolly Willowes, Warner had, I think, more of an idea of where she wanted this one to end up, and she reached it.This is one of those novels that ends the way an F.
The great thing about this novel is that Sophia is that person too, and the story pivots on her slow unbending and a quiet upheaval of everything she once held to be true and important.
Summer will Show, Warner’s fourth novel.
Summer will Show is not an especially easy read, but I found the beginning particularly readable, almost unputdownable and although the novel eventually spirals off into a far more complex narrative – it is really very good and very beautifully written.
This is a book that I think I will remember – which is always a very good sign.
Summer will Show is the third of them that I have read.
First published in 1936, Summer will Show; the story of Sophia Willoughby takes us to the mid nineteenth century, specifically the streets of revolutionary Paris in 1848.Full review: https://heavenali.wordpress.com/2015/...
I left this on a Virgin train to Birmingham yesterday. Damn! The kids had died, she'd confronted the kilnsman, and was set on going to Paris. Will I see it again? I have two lost property numbers to call on Monday. Meanwhile, I'm in Cheltenham without a book. But there's a used bookshop opening at 10am... Hoping to find a gem.-------------------------------It doesn't look like I'm getting this back. I don't quite know what to do with this review now.
2.5this really isn't bad, but it is different from what I thought it would be and I wasn't really in the mood for it.
In fact, "Summer Will Show" goes further as a story of a woman obtaining freedom in the teeth of societal opposition than the similarly-themed "Lolly Willowes": Lolly is an old maid without much of a position in society when she opts to abandon that position to become a witch, while Sophia has responsibilities of all kinds, including children, which must be discarded before she can achieve a genuine independence.
Th book follows Sophia from the English countryside to Paris, where we meet most of its characters, most prominently Minna Lemuel, the Jewish story-teller, revolutionary, and (presumably, though this is never made explicit) Sophia's lesbian lover.
A 1936 novel by a mature Warner about an Englishwoman's experiences in Paris at the time of the 1848 "June revolution", based on quite a bit of research Warner did.I got the book because it was highly recommended by an author I like, May Sarton.The June revolution, which I had known nothing about, turns out to have to do with growing sympathies for Communist ideas at that time, and unrest among the suffering lower classes.
Warner herself, along with her life partner, joined the Communist Party in 1935.But politics is only a small part of the book, which shows the main character being amazed at what more there is to life than her role of small gentry in England.

I disliked this book so much, I want to go back and turn every book I've ever reviewed and left a one star for and up it to to.
I wish there were negative stars.
The antisemitism in this book made it very difficult to read.
I am reading it for a lesbian book club, and apparently it's supposed to be a love story, but the protagonists never has anything nice to say about her supposed love interest, and often what she says is based in such stereotypical and hateful descriptions that it makes me think that it may not be possible to love another human being if you hate that much.Maybe it is a product of it's time, published in 1936, but if loving someone cannot soften you towards prejudice, what can?
In his gallows speech (though he was executed by firing squad rather than the noose) he talks of the irony of having, whilst waiting for a fellow condemned man to finish his confession, a the few moments he had always craved – of standing in the sunshine doing nothing at all.But however interesting, the Communists and the other revolutionaries are minor characters in a story foregrounded by Sophia first of all, and Minna second.
I first discovered Sylvia Townsend Warner this Spring when a friend gave me a copy of "Lolly Willows".
After reading "Lolly Willows" I began searching for more Warner novels.
I bought four and immediately started "Summer Will Show".This is a longer and more complex book than "Lolly Willows".
Indeed Lolly was not matched by any character in "Summer Will Show" but in her own right Minna Lemuel is a richly written woman of questionable morals; she is mesmerizing, and enigmatic; people are drawn to her regardless of their place in society or their philosophy on life.
Minna brings Sophia, and this story, to life.
But when she gets there she finds Frederick embroiled in a radical community that has Minna at its heart.
The basic problem is that the spaces between those things become longer and longer as the book goes on.
For a book about a violent revolution, the action is somewhat limited to a series of rather ponderous musings in airless rooms.
There’s a great deal of interesting feminist political context here, but the author doesn’t seem to have much to say about the lot of actual women, and the book often seems torn between being about the present and the nineteenth century.
“Summer Will Show” is a historical novel unlike any others: it is a romance that defies all the codes of the genre, a story that is as much about the past as it is about today (or, as the novel was written in the mid-thirties, about the world then), a pure fiction that is also a genuine work of political ideas, a stylish literary gem and a powerful feminist tract.
Sophia finds her voice as a woman, she follows her heart without regrets, and she discovers an entire new world that she’s never quite sure what to make of (she never feels like she belongs to it, even in the midst of bloody fights, which makes her case interesting).
Then I realized I had already read a STW novel before, the delightful Lolly Willowes, so I decided to try it out.I'm so glad I did!
This was really an amazing novel about the sexual, social, and political awakening of a (wealthy, conservative) heroine.
But even though the political/revolutionary parts in Paris are actually a little more drawn out, STW's ability to convey Sophia's transformation from a relative conservative to a full-fledged radical -- which is so delicately done as to be almost imperceptible as you're reading -- is in my mind the mark of a great novelist.
I truly don't understand why she isn't more widely read...
Sylvia Townsend Warner has written a beautifully crafted tale of a 19th C wealthy, landed and slightly smug Englishwoman who spurns her adulterer husband, loses her children from smallpox and flees to France.
There she finds herself stretching her feminist inklings to forge a new life with her husband's ex-mistress and embraces the revolution of 1848 happening around her.
Townsend Warner was a contemporary of Woolf and Mansfield and equal to them in her writing.
I don’t really know where, but I suspect it started getting tedious when all of a sudden Sophia started subscribing (w00t alliteration) to Communist, hm, maybe not ideas, but actions.
Here was Sophia, a wealthy, cold, calculating, unloving, unsympathetic, racist person, and I couldn’t tear myself off her – what a fascinating character she was!
The whole thing with her children (by the way, the kiln wasn’t directly responsible for their deaths – but how terrifying it was!
I expected horror, and got it, but in a different way!
Her husband and aunt – brilliant.Minna?
Minna was an enigma.


Jane Austen meets Victor Hugo with a dash of Thelma and Louise. Sophia Willoughby is a headstrong English aristocrat, who's sent her husband packing to live with his mistress while she goes about raising her children. The children die, and Sophia tracks her husband to Paris, where instead of reconciling with him she winds up infatuated with his mistress, Minna, and the two of them send the husband packing and proceed to live a Bohemian life together until the Revolution of 1848 puts them on the barricades. Not my favorite by Townsend, but still a fascinating novel.
Thought the writing of the first half when Sophia loses here children was incredible and worth 5 stars. The second half of the book in 1848 revolutionary Paris was less inventively written more conventional narration, but an interesting premise. Ending was ambiguous.
I had to stop at page 120.
While reading it I kept thinking what was the impetus in buying this book?
It was not well reviewed and none of my friends had read it.
1800's England, the wife of an aristocratic family, marries and has two children.
Her husband wastes no time in acquiring a mistress.
The wife proceeds to Paris to force her husband to return to England and work on starting a new family.
Upon arriving in Paris, she falls in love with her husband's mistress.
This is where I stopped.
Set in Victorian England, it begins as a recognizable English country novel but hubby's gone so wifey's a lot independent.
Once her children dies she wants to screw the local filthy kiln worker--and then find hubby to screw him too.
She heads to Gay Paris to find him and his Jewish lover.
She falls in love with lover (though the book is full of anti-semitic screed--damned, Britain was scary, and this was written in the midst of Hitler.) Ultimately both women support the 1848 revolution.
Too many words, too little action considering the time--but some nice zingers on women's limited roles.
