https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/217376.The_Wallflower_Vol_1
Allow me to pimp out one of my favorites series of all time.The Wallflower has long been a favorite manga series of mine, it's got beautiful artwork, absolutely gorgeous men (HELLO REVERSE HAREM), a grumpy, evil, and seriously dark heroine (you can probably tell I like her), and surprisingly enough for a reverse harem...just the right amount of romance.
A love for the dark and supernatural (there's a skeleton in her room).Needless to say, the guys are absolutely fucking horrified at their challenge.Sunako's not exactly happy about sharing her home with these...creatures.
It's not enough to look okay (despite everyone calling her ugly, the main character seems normal and just isn't trying at all) you have to work to be prettier.
To be fair, it isn't much more liberating for boys: being cool and attractive the main thing, personality doesn't count for much, and you can treat girls like crap as long as you're cute, they will want you anyway.But as I said, it is well-executed.
I liked the main character's conversations with her anatomical models and horror characters, and her outbursts of angry ass-kicking of people who push her too far.
One day, her dark and horror film filled life is turned upside down when her aunt recruits four beautiful boys (i.e. Creatures of Light) as tenants in her mansion.
Unbeknownst to Sunako, the aunt secretly offers free rent to the boys if they are willing and ready to make over Sunako into the beautiful, glamorous lady that she could be.
And boy, do they really need the free rent!
Tomoko Hayakawa has a whacked out, belly achingly funny sense of humor--and the result is this clever series that twists common horror tropes into comedic plots.
Tiene los toques cómicos que me encantan ^.^
2.5 wasted stars:(Perfect Girl Evolution/ The Wallflower is about an “ugly” (read: perfectly beautiful but unpolished, the boys have partial blindness perhaphs) girl who happens to live in an awesome house.
Especially when our girl, Sunako, is a agoraphobic, horror flick fanatic, and introverted recluse, whose face hasn't seen the light of day since years.
(But she can kick ass{lots of them} and does know how to murder her fish, so...not bad, S)The boys, our airbrushed 15-year olds(yeah, right) are the most haughty, noses-in-the-air and fake personalities I've ever come across.
Tell me, if a girl is conscious about her looks, is that really so bad?
But when his eyes are set on a girl, his love for her is complicated and he himself does not know but it never falters.The main storyline is full of suspense and emotion espically the antics of Kyohei and Sunako.
The life-likeness of the characters make the story really enjoyable to read.
Its not in poetry but in simple yet suspense dialogue which makes the manga even more intresting to read.FUNThere are loads of humour in Yamato Nadeshiko Shichi Henge (Wallflower) as they get into quite alot of scraps and terribly humourous situations.
But getting past this, by the time I was done the first chapter the story was in full swing and everything started to come together in a funny and bizarre story of Sunako and her strange, forced interactions with four "creatures of brightness" who are now living with her after years of hiding from the world with her plummeting self-esteem and increasingly psychotic personality.
:) I'm eagerly looking forward to reading through the series and seeing where this goes and how the characters come to develop beyond being "oh so pretty" :D*starts humming*
I loved it!! So bizarre...cross-dressing teenage boys...agoraphobic, slasher film-obsessed girls... sex-for-hire auction posing as posh host club...I mean, when will the madness end?!? I can't wait to read volume 2!
Me and my manga-reading aunt both love this series.XDCrazy plot, crazy setting and equally crazy sense of humor are at work here.
And the four pretty boys are much more than just eye-candies, though the mention of their huge army of fangirls and those fangirls' extreme behaviors are always oh-so over the top.Outside of the manga itself, the author Tomoko Hayakawa's undying love for the Japanese Visual Kei male rock star Kiyoharu is just equally hilarious!
She loves him so much that she basically based her male lead on him, and Kiyoharu also ended up singing the Opening and the Ending songs for the Wallflower anime series.XD I love Sunako's character because she is so...ME.
Surprisingly hilarious and fun to read. Took a while to get into the illustrations though but worth it.
I'd stopped reading around volume 16 because I got tired of waiting for something to happen.
I just got a little bugged because at times this series would progress in the plot, then have Sunako regress almost to her original state because they wanted to keep the series going.
This isn't an awful series and I'm up to volume 8 as of this review and I can see why I originally liked it and why others liked it.
This is a decent enough series, but get the volumes from the library first and read up to volume 10-12 before really investing in buying the volumes.
I tried to read this because I'd heard such great things about it, but I hated it. The art was ugly, I couldn't tell one boy from another. The main character is extremely unlikeable. She tries to murder one of the guys with scissors and everyone is cool with it, no one thinks she needs psychiatric help. I quit reading in disgust after she befriended a serial rapist because they were both "misunderstood". Waltz Tango Foxtrot doesn't come close to describing my reaction.
Overall series review (mostly) 4 Stars - so far, I’ve still got a few to go… Additional: Like most long running series there are some duff chapters/volumes Sunako is my spirit animal.
The things that I love about The Wallflower are that Sunako is just as much a hypocrite as the so-called society that rejected her.
I feel like I should have more issues with the ‘transformation’ part of the story but every time Sunako gets “made up”, she returns to her original self by the next chapter.
Okay, I'm officially fangirling over this shojo manga series, like hardcore.
The characters are flippin' adorable-ness with a topping of SO DAMN FUN!
The lead heroine, Sunako, is pretty much my definition of Misfit Weirdo, and I love her like mad for that fact!
I'm obsessed with how this series is so character driven, and I'm practically drooling at the mouth to get my hands on Volume 2.
I am all about some love for this adorableness, and now I not only need all 33+ and counting volumes of the manga, but I want the anime adaptation on my computer.
Overall Rating: BSynopsis: A Shōjo comedy/romance manga created by Tomoko Hayakawa.
At the beginning of the manga, Sunako Nakahara confesses her love to a boy, who utterly rejects her and tells her she's ugly.
Fortunately, Sunako's aunt owns a mansion that four gorgeous boys live in (huh?).
Apparently, the boys pay rent to live in the mansion, and the aunt offers them free rent if they give Sunako a Pygmalian-esque makeover, and she becomes a "perfect lady".
This works pretty well as a comedy/romance Shōjo, and I'm interested in the characters.
It has a lot of potential.For more manga and anime reviews, please check out Hobotaku.
Yesterday, I broke down and bought Volume One, since B&N was out of Charlaine Harris's vampire series' books I was looking for.
The series is about a girl named Sunako who has shunned all things beautiful (including caring about herself) ever since the first boy she told she loved called her ugly.
if they succeed in transforming Sunako.
Sunako doesn't want to change and would much rather hide behind her bangs and never see her own face again.
It's a really cool series about self-esteem told in a realistic and also a magical way.
I recently bought all 36 volumes of this manga at Boston Anime, so I'll be working my way through this series!
I've been watching the anime and am almost finished with that, but I'm sure the manga goes way past that, so I'm really excited.
The anime is seriously crazy at times, so I kind of appreciated the more serious feel to this.
(Don't get me wrong, things are still pretty crazy.
It just feels a bit less so.) I will say, the adjustment to the art style is pretty rough, but it's growing on me.
Blood. Ghosts. Creatures of light! No, this isn’t a vampire-horror graphic novel. This is a wacky story about 4 hot guys with a mission to turn their landlady’s homely neice into a stunner, so they can get free rent. But when the poor thing looks like the girl from the movie The Ring, do the boys even have a chance? You’ll have to read the rest to find out. You’ll be laughing and cheering through out the whole series.
I'm waiting for this. I don't like only in manga. I watched yamato nadeshiko when I was grade 6 student and that was years ago. And it happened that I watch it again today and OH I FELL IN LOVE.. what now? it's 2012 and yet there's still no new season. Yes, Yamato Nadeshiko is still on going and we can read manga online but what the hell!! What can i do with a book?? IT'S NOT EVEN MOVING! THE CHARACTERS ARE NOT MOVING. in short, THERE IS NO EMOTION!! I miss the voice of Kyohei Takano >_<
I'm﻿ waiting for this. I don't like only in manga. I watched yamato nadeshiko when I was grade 6 student and that was years ago. And it happened that I watch it again today and OH I FELL IN LOVE.. what now? it's 2012 and yet there's still no new season. Yes, Yamato Nadeshiko is still on going and we can read manga online but what the hell!! What can i do with a book?? IT'S NOT EVEN MOVING! THE CHARACTERS ARE NOT MOVING. in short, THERE IS NO EMOTION!! I miss the voice of Kyohei Takano >_<
Reviewed by delil1 (TCRC)Bishonens (super hot, teenage guys) Kyouhei Takano, Takenaga Oda, Yukinojo "Yuki" Toyama, and Ranmaru Morii all live together in the mansion of miss Nakahara. when her niece moves in she gives the boys a choice they could start paying full rent or they can turn her niece the gothic loner Sunako Nakahara into a lady. witch leads them into all sorts of wacky situations and accward positions in there atemp to make her into whay her aunt wants her to be.
Originally read 16.July.2011Almost 5 years later, I have finally bought the second volume, and seeing as I really didn't remember much from the first time I read this, decided it was time for a super quick reread. My original rating was 3 stars, but I think imma have to up that.
I wasn't too sure about this manga at first because the art style is different from what I usually like (the main character usually appears in her little chibi form). But the story is hilarious! Goth girl vs the pretty boys.
I am not a shoujo fan in the slightest. I haven't a clue what made me read this series, but I couldn't be happier I did. YNSH is absolutely hysterical (although chibi!Sunako appears a bit too often for my liking).
I've never been a big anime fan but I enjoyed this manga very much. I can relate to Sunako's character.
i'm only adding one because the series is long but FUCKK sunaku-chan is the most hilarioussssssss antisocial likkle gurll ever, i love it. oh noes! creachhhauurs of the light!
I love it... The Setting are very Beautiful.. My friends told that I am Sunako... Can you believe it?.. But, I really love it.. Its amazing comic.. I want to be a rising Sunako.. I wish.. >_<
The anime follows the manga pretty closely. A fun read. Read vols 1-2.
A really great series. About 4 bishies (young man) who need to makeover a girl into a lady in order to get free rent. Yamato who is into horror is resistent to the idea. A funny series.
I really liked this book because
Komik yang selalu gw tunggu...Sangat bisa ngurangin strez..
