https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/256105.No_Name_in_the_Street
My review, as well as my other thoughts on reading, can be found on my blog.Divided into two parts of similar lengths, with a short epilogue, James Baldwin's fourth work of nonfiction contemplates the collapse of the Civil Rights Movement of the 1950s and 1960s.
The book, first published in 1972, begins with an overview of the author's childhood in Harlem.
Compared to Baldwin's first three nonfiction books, all published in the 1950s and 1960s, No Name in the Street is less driven by hope.
The author's anger pulses throughout the book, and it propels the narrative forward toward an epilogue that anticipates the onset of violent revolution across the globe.
It’s certainly not as though the man’s work diminished with time; “Freaks and the Ideal of American Manhood,” written toward the end of Baldwin’s life, strikes me as just as involving, insightful and introspective as the essays that made his name, and anyway this is twenty years of the guy’s career the public rather seems to have skipped out on.Handily enough, the central thesis of this book-length essay seems to answer that question.
Furthermore, he talks about MLK and Malcolm, both of them slain, and the subtext hangs heavy: if the ‘50s-‘60s civil rights movement stopped racism in its tracks, why were two of its main icons shot dead?This is all pretty heavy stuff, so why doesn’t it get hosannas equivalent to those of the Fire Next Time?
feels essential, as Baldwin reflects on his life around the deaths of Malcolm, Martin and Medgar; as we continue to witness (and continue, without end, to witness) Black death in public, legal lynchings, as well as under the slow slaughter we suffer daily; and, as we enter this new, profound moment of connection and challenge--oh, pioneers!
at times, i'm at at standstill with Baldwin's insistence on salvaging the American national project.
though, i see we he is coming from: Black folks have built this nation and will be an integral part, he suggests, in sustaining it.
Of his non-fiction I've read, No Name in the Street is less meandering and is more graceful in how it coalesces than the still-excellent The Devil Finds Work, still vague about personal details in a classic Baldwin-ist way but less so than his other work, written with a pace more exhilarating than, say, Notes of a Native Son. The quick appearance and subsequent disappearance of autobiographical detail, meaning how he uses as a springboard right into the biggest issues if only because those details were of him being at the frontlines, is astutely executed.
Maybe if more people in our country (in every country) read books like this one, there would be less injustice, less hate, less racism, less socioeconomic and educational disparity in this world.
It's books like these we need to LEARN from before we take too many steps in the altogether wrong direction.
But it's necessary to step away from my own white privelege for as long as it takes to read a book like this (and hopefully, for far longer than that), and to try my best to see from a vantage I can't possibly understand first-hand, but that I can hope to understand in pieces by listening.
Like a sequel to The Fire Next Time, this is another thoughtful, clear-eyed, and eloquent missive from a particularly ghastly period in African American history. Baldwin's pessimism and despair following the assassination of so many of his compatriots is absolutely heart-rendering.
Sadly, still relevant today.
But, once I found myself there, I recognized that the South was a riddle which could be read only in the light, or the darkness, of the unbelievable disasters which as overtaken the private life.I say, “riddle”: not the riddle of what this unhappy people claim, madly enough, as their “folk” ways.
White people who murder black people are still being found not guilty, by reason of standing your ground bullshit.It’s frustrating because Baldwin’s writing style is very circular, full of parenthetical asides and inserted phrases and explanations within dashes and commas and semicolons – the whole full breadth of punctuation!
Some books are so powerful and profound that they take your breath away as you read them.
Not long ago I read Baldwin's "The Fire Next Time" and was stunned by how lucid, eloquent, and angry it was.
Written after the murders of Medgar Evers, Martin Luther King, Malcom X, various Black Panthers, and the imprisonment of his friends, Baldwin has no time for understanding or working to understand the white power structure.
From police brutality, white people stubbornly refusing to acknowledge anything is wrong, and people being shot down in the streets it feels at times like Baldwin has jumped into a time machine and is condemning America circa 2017 rather than 1972.
Should be required reading for every American. Although it was begun in 1970, it could have been written today—so precisely does he describe our continuing (and worsening, I’m afraid) racial and economic and imperial pathologies, in stunning prose that ranges from philosophical disquisition to straightforward, illustrative prose. I’m not usually an eager nonfiction reader, but I read this in a few intense hours.
This one may be one of my favorites--especially towards the end where he talks about the deaths of King, Malcolm, and Medgar Evers (and the imprisonment of Huey Newton). He deals with all of these men with such insight and reverence. He says his job is not to be a revolutionary, but to be a witness and he's such an astute and poignant witness. This book is also his most pessimistic. How could you not be as a black man watching your heroes die one by one?
Exceptional book. Important perspective & history of what it means to be black in America.
I am once again reminded that what Baldwin has to say about white supremacy, the justice system in America, and allyship is as applicable now as it was ~50 years ago
Written at the end of the '60s, Baldwin puzzles through the "race problem" in America from Hollywood to Attica. It reads like a long essay or a rant even. There's no discernible shape, which feels indicative of where Baldwin was emotionally at the time--he describes in sharp detail where he was when he learned of the murders of Medgar, Malcolm, and Martin. All men he knew personally.

Written 45 years ago and still completely relevant today. Wondering how far we’ve really come . Very eye opening for me to a history that I’ve realized I know little. Listened to the 2017 audiobook release . Narrator is very talented
His double consciousness and inner turmoil made me read this book with a level of respect that I can’t say I approach all of my books.Baldwin doesn’t just tell the truth.
He uses his phenomenal, peculiar, poetic, and penetrating writing ability and his fame to tell the stories that others in those positions of social power did not.As a random sn: I had recently seen I am not your negro in theaters and so read this book with the voice of Samuel L.
No Name in the Street collects Baldwin’s thoughts on race in America, and comparing it to The Fire Next Time, you can easily see how much changed during those nine years.
Where The Fire Next Time held out the hope of peace between blacks and whites, in No Name in the Streets Baldwin compares America to Nazi Germany.In both books, Baldwin examines some of the most radical elements in the civil rights movement.
In No Name in the Street, Baldwin is intrigued by the Black Panther movement.
Others don't have such a luxury, and when I read work like Baldwin's, and watch films like Spike Lee's 4 LITTLE GIRLS (which this book inspired me to do this week), I am in humbled and somewhat terrified awe at the dignity and genuine spirituality on display by people who have suffered so much pain and indignity that they should by all accounts have turned into animals.
People who have suffered much less have been reduced to rubble, but that dignity shown by the parents of the 4 girls murdered in Birmingham makes the petty and desperate bestial nature on display every day here in contemporary America all the more chilling.
James Baldwin was never exactly shy about his feelings regarding race in America, and his non-fiction book, No Name in the Street is no exception.
Starting with his own childhood and his non-existent relationship with his father he moves on to discuss the Algerian War, with a short hop to the Civil Rights Movement in America (he was primarily in Paris by this point).
I adore Baldwin, however, so I'm glad I read this.
required reading
I marked just about every page - from insights on home being in a lover's arms and love not knowing color contrary to elite's beliefs (23); to more hope for whites in the south than whites in the north because of the sorrow of those in the south compared to the impudence and arrogance of those in the north (56); to the emotionlessness of whites and the franticness with which they try to protect their violent history and present to distance themselves from realizing this vast abyss (33-); to never feeling free in America, feeling "only free in battle, never free to rest" (126); to the terror that is real in the U.S. when one is born black, and the aliveness and grappling that this necessitates as compared to whites (58-, 89-, 127-128).Given my current work at the Defender, I was especially struck by Baldwin's description of Tony Maynard's case and his characterization of the defense lawyer's 'reputation' versus actually caring for his black and brown clients.
He believes that white people, regardless of social class, are able to get through their entire lives with a feeble grasp on reality, a euphoric state that would look insane if a black person saw the world similarly.
Baldwin feels that white people need to be liberated from the need to lie all the time.
Baldwin was 48 when this book was published and 43 at the time of Cleaver's Oakland PD ambush; as someone who is also in his early 40s, I detect in Baldwin's writing that he admires the Black Panthers but recognizes that this is the next generation.
It is certain, in any case, that ignorance, allied with power, is the most ferocious enemy justice can have.”Or: “A poor man is always an isolated man, in the sense that his intimates are as ignorant and as helpless as he.”Or: “The white cop in the ghetto is as ignorant as he is frightened, and his entire concept of police work is to cow the natives.
A visit to Medgar Evers, for example, comes after an exposition on the assassination of Martin Luther King, Jr. It is written as a narrative, one memory calls to Baldwin's mind another, and then we are on our way to a portrait of the nation that Baldwin so loved that he challenged it to its core.
Creatively the book often revolves around two memories that are uniquely Baldwin's- the attempt to create a biopic on Malcolm X just a few years after Malcolm's death, and the trial (taking place in both America and Germany) of a dear friend falsely accused (so we are driven to believe) of murder.Around this, the subjects are diverse and anyone interested in any aspect of American history or racial understanding will find something here.

One could scarcely be deluded by Americans anymore, one scarcely dared expect anything from the great, vast, blank generality; and yet one was compelled to demand of Americans—and for their sakes, after all—a generosity, a clarity, and a nobility which they did not dream of demanding from themselves.”“...if one really wishes to know how justice is administered in a country, one does not question the policemen, the lawyers, the judges, or the protected members of the middle class.
The beauty of reading a book is that you can listen without having to reply (good practice!); it gives you time to think and consider; it allows you to imagine new conclusions and ask "what if?" without any more risk than a change of mind.
This is not a comforting book because Baldwin was not comforted (the one thing that stood out starkly to me was the strength of his fear, and the logical reasons for it), but it is an interesting book because he was an interesting person - and a powerful communicator.
One of the only times I can remember reading where I desperately longed as I turned each page to truly feel this work is a very dated book that is no longer relevant in today’s world because of how far we have come.
Baldwin’s eloquent impassioned work should be required reading along side the works from King such as “Why We Can’t Wait” and “Letter from a Birmingham Jail” and other such works for all students to understand their fellow citizens of all races and creeds by walking a few steps in their shoes.
Ένα ισχυρό σχόλιο πάνω στις πολιτικές και κοινωνικές αγωνίες της σύγχρονης ιστορίας της Αμερικής. Ο Baldwin εδώ ακολουθεί τις δολοφονίες, τις αστικές ταραχές, την αυξημένη φυλετική πόλωση των καιρών του προσφέροντας την προσωπική του μαρτυρία και δίνοντας έμφαση στους Malcolm X και Martin Luther King Jr., καθώς και στην πορεία του 1963 στην Ουάσινγκτον. I'm black and I'm proud: yet, I suppose that the most accurate term, now, for this history, this particular and peculiar danger, as well as for
Ένα ισχυρό σχόλιο πάνω στις πολιτικές και κοινωνικές αγωνίες της σύγχρονης ιστορίας της Αμερικής.
I'm black and I'm proud: yet, I suppose that the most accurate term, now, for this history, this particular and peculiar danger, as well as for all persons produced out of it and struggling in it, is: Afro-American.
Which is but a wedding, however, of two confusions, an arbitrary linking of two undefined and currently undefinable proper nouns.
I mean that, in the case of Africa, Africa is still chained to Europe, and exploited by Europe, and Europe and America are chained together; and as loong as this is so, it is hard to speak of Africa except as a cradle and a potential.
