https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13486122-the-marriage-bargain
I have to admit, the hot cover was the first thing that drew me to the book.
In spades.It all started with her and his list of Mr/Ms Right.Hers :1) A Mets fan, 2) loves books, art and poetry, 3) believes in monogamy, 4) wants children, 5) knows how to communicate with a woman, 6) loves animals, 7) has a morale code of ethics and believes in honesty, 8) a good lover 9) has a strong sense of family, 10) has $150,000 cash available.His :1) a woman who does not love me2) a woman I do not desire to sleep with 3) a woman who does not have a big family4) a woman who does not have any animals5) a woman who does not want any children6) a woman who has an independent career7) a woman who will view the relationship as a business venture8) a woman who is not overly emotional or impulsive9) a woman I can trustAlexa and Nicholas were both in deep trouble and the only solution was to get married.
Terrific beginning.Heartwarming ending.Exciting romance.Mesmerizing cover.Amusing cast.Realistic relationship.Refreshing humor.Irresistible hero.Adorable but forgettable.Gutsy heroine.Entertaining dialogue.Beautiful story.Alexa = AMAZING. Rather predictable, overall. Grinned like an idiot throughout.Absorbing writing style. Immensely fun read.Nice and short. For more reviews, visit my blog.
I hope better looking...So, we already know the premise of the story; Alexa needs to marry for money, Nick needs to marry for money, so they decide to marry each other.
then they fall in lurve with each other, then all hell breaks loose when Alexa gets knocked up with Nick's baby and he freaks out, insisting Alexa only got pregnant to "trap him".
Yes, Nick is a bit full of himself.
Yes, there's a HEA ending, and yes, Nick comes to his senses, and yes, there's a sad adopted dog involved.
The dog is a metaphor for Nick.
This book unravels the mystery of every girl's fantasy!!!!!!!!What every girl wants:1) To look hot (skin and clothes)!!2) Marriage!!!!!Wait!!! No!!! My mistake!!! A great wedding with a hot groom!!!!3) Marriage + Hot Husband + Money!!4) Ohhh but the marriage will last forever and the hot millionare guy has to really really love you ...and you know ... babies!!5) Of course there is the supermodel ex-girlfriend But ... she doesn't have the spark and the husband prefers the girl with boobs!!And then HEA
Almost a DNF.
I came soooooo close to chucking this one, but I skimmed the last third of the book as I did want to finish.
Overall this was a very underwhelming read.
I love a great contemporary romance with steam, but this was too formulaic and lacked a decent story to keep me interested.
The plot was just downright boring.
I do like a marriage of convenience plot, but this was just too hokey as they keep going back and forth on their desires for sex.
The heroine's need to lie was baffling, and the heroes sudden change of heart is a plot device so often found in bad fiction.
0 stars!DNF 38%This book was so stupid!! Who says shit like this?! Can I have my 5 dollars back? Ugh, if not, could I somehow give this negative rating? This is me on my contemporary horse. A few more to come.
And he is certainly the direct opposite of what Alexa envisions as a husband for herself and nor is he too thrilled to know that his only viable option of a wife for a year is none other than his childhood tormentor Alexa herself.14 year since that humiliating experience that had broken Alexa’s heart, she meets an altogether more controlled and formidable Nick, whose cold and hard way of looking at a marriage leaves a lot to be desired.
I could have easily read about Nick and Alexa for a long time.....like oh I don’t know 500 or 600 pages more!!
I loved how their relationship grows over the course of the story and eventually helps both the main characters overcome their life obstacles.
I loved her easy going personality and her knack to annoy the hell out of Nick when she felt like it!
Right from the beginning you see that he is attracted to Alexa but his feelings don’t have any depth....however through the course of the story...you get to not only see Nick’s feelings evolve but you also get to see him grow as a person!
Thing is he does not want to marry his supermodel girlfriend Gabriela, he senses that she is falling in love with him.
And she is none to happy about it either.Alexa McKenzie needs one-hundred and fifty thousand dollars cash in order to save her parents home.
Nick may not be at the top of her list when it comes to what she is looking for in a man.
But his bank account is.These two come together making a deal that should settle both of their problems.
ThoughtsThis was a fun quick read filled with plenty of witty banter as well as some steamy love sessions.
Making this a light fun read.
That’s why Uncle Earl had to force me into an institution that favors women in the first place.” She gasped.
“Men get plenty out of marriage!”  “Like what?”  “Steady sex and companionship.”  “After six months the headaches start and you bore each other to tears.”  “Someone to grow old with.”  “Men never want to grow old.
That’s why they keep seeking out younger women.”  Her mouth dropped open.
“Children…a family…someone who will love you in sickness and health.”  “Someone who spends all your money and nags you every night and bitches about cleaning up your mess.”  “You’re sick.”  “You’re deluded.” She narrowed her eyes.
Some things remain the same.
Tras leer los dos primeros libros de la serie Searching for de la misma autora, decidí leer el primero de esta serie, cuya temática fuera de la romántica histórica me chirría un montón en los tiempos que corren.
A pesar de estar lleno de clichés y lugares comunes, así como de una sonrojante declaración de amor y un epilogo de lo más tonto; la química entre los dos protagonistas es muy buena, Alexa es un gran personaje femenino, la narración es fluida y se lee en un pispas.
Es como una peli de amor tontorrona: bonita de ver en el momento, pero que se te olvida al minuto dos.
I liked it, but I'm not sure if I loved it. Will sleep on it first. 3.5/4 stars so far.
It wasn't hard for Maggie to devise a plan to help out her brother and Alexa's desperate family; all in one easy transaction: Alexa will marry Nick...immediately.
Even though this story was predictable, the author's storytelling kept me thorougly interested and made me excited to get back to Nick and Alexa every chance I got!
Oh, and the passion is REALLY GREAT and well timed.
This is another great example of a book to grab if you're about to hop a plane or in need of a little rainy-day escape!
Nick needs a wife as a condition to inherit some cash, and Alexa is willing to accept the terms of the bargain for a small payout of her own to help save her family’s home.
When their contract requirements begin to collide, sparks start to fly and Nick and Alexa find that this marriage bargain is turning into something they didn’t expect.Okay, let me just say… yes there’s an element of predictability to this story.
I knew how it was going to end, but in all fairness when you go into a story expecting something light, romantic, funny and fulfilling that’s the perfect type of predictability an author can deliver.
This was a lovely read :)Just what I needed, something light, funny and romantic.Alexa needs money to save her family house, and Nick needs a wife so he could inherit his family business.
And so the fun starts XD They are attracted to each-other, but they fight it because neither wants to get involved, eventually of course they do :)It was nice to watch Nick change during the novel, he keeps himself distant, wants no family, no love, no childern, but essentially craves it.
Alexa is vulnerable cause she always had a thing for him and she fears she'll fall in love if they get too close to each other.It was a nice ending, they both overcame their differences, even kept the dog <3
Nick needs a wife quick, to fulfill conditions in a will, and Alexa needs money quick, to bail her parents out of debt, so they won't lose the family home.
Nick doesn’t want a real wife, he feels he could never love someone properly, and doesn't ever want to be a father.
He's experienced the pain they can bring, first-hand, and so he'd rather pay someone, than commit to a real marriage.
So Nick and Alexa sign a contract, and enter in this marriage bargain/business arrangement, that is to last a year.
There are lots of hilarious moments, stemming from the antagonistic relationship between Alexa and Nick.
I liked the book, the way it was written how these two faced of against each other and were opposites.
They entered into a marriage of convenience, the heroine because she needed money for her family, the hero because his uncle's will stipulated it.
The heroine believes in love, family, animals, kids, the hero doesn't.
They both agree to be celibate for a year but it is tough and there are moments when they almost fall for the attraction between them & the poor hero even let's his ex-girlfriend kiss him to prove he doesn't want her but it fails & he gets a bowl of ice-cream on his head, courtesy the heroine.It was fun seeing these childhood nemesis turn into more.
Looking forward to Maggie's & the Count's book.

Meet Nick GotLotsaMoney, an emotionally stunted asshat who's supposed to look like this:
He pretty much hates women, too, because they're all lying liars with expectations and other evil stuff who like to trap men in marriages with BABIES.
[image error]GIFSoupPictured: A million times too good for Nick.Alexa owns a bookstore and can barely pay the bills.
Instead of dealing with it like a reasonable adult, Nick goes on the advice of his horrible father who he HATES WITH A VISCERAL PASSION and decides that Alexa planned the pregnancy to trap him and all of his pwecious money.
Why are we glorifying men like Nick in 2012?

I like the occasional romance and decided to give it a try with the one hour read for free that B&N offers for their Nook customers.
I hadn't even read for the full hour yet, was only 20 pages in before I decided to purchase it and continue on!
This is the typical romance novel where the motivation for coming together is money.
Nick needs a wife to claim his deceased Uncle's business and Alexa needs money to rescue her family's home.
But what makes this novel different from most is its quirky, fun and exciting ride from the first page to the last!
Alexa and Nick were childhood friends that grew into teen crushes, but unfortunately with time they lost contact.
However, Alexa and Maggie, Nick’s sister, remain best-friends so when both of them are in trouble, Maggie has the solution: Alexa needs money to save her parents house.
Nick needs a wife so he can fully inherit his company.
So they have a pretend marriage, they both get what they need and within a year they go live their separate lives.
It’s a very fast reading.
It’s light, sweet and predictable.
Those types of pick-me-up books that we all need sometimes ;)
This book right here is the reason why I so patiently roam Amazon and Goodreads, looking for new and undiscovered authors, why I put up with a lot of really bad books in the hopes they will lead me to something like this.The Marriage Bargain is a good romance book.
Oh the authors do try to weave in a plot of some kind, but too often if falls flat.In The Marriage Bargain the UST (unresolved sexual tension) is so heavy it makes you want to grab the characters and shake them until they come to their senses.
I read The Marriage Bargain in one day because I got sucked in and could not put it down. The characters were so well drawn and interesting, the chemistry and sexual tension between them crackled off the page, and Probst made me cheer for them to finally admit their feelings and get together. The book was also laugh out loud funny in a few places, I'm thinking of the discovery of the hidden dogs scene in particular. But the opposites attract theme provided a lot of these moments. Just an all around great read!
A quick, easy read. This book didn't rock my world but it was pleasant and undemanding. A nice blend of tension, angst, wit, romance, love and steam.  Hell, at this rate she’d end up in the mental institution by the end of the year. Cause: Celibacy.  There weren't any rip-your-heart-out moments for me but I loved the building sexual tension and the avoiding of the inevitable. I felt that the book would have benefited from a little more depth to take it up a notch, from good to great, and the cha
A nice blend of tension, angst, wit, romance, love and steam.
There weren't any rip-your-heart-out moments for me but I loved the building sexual tension and the avoiding of the inevitable.
I felt that the book would have benefited from a little more depth to take it up a notch, from good to great, and the characters were a little one dimensional.
I felt that some of the book seemed a little rushed and I would have enjoyed reading more about their day to day life, getting to know one another, etc.
I made it almost all the way through this before my loathing for Nick finally overcame my desire to see Alexa happy.
And it's not so much that Nick is a jerk and completely unworthy of her attention (though he is those things).
Those beliefs make him a self-involved idiot who couldn't analyze his way past a sleeping toddler.The capper happened when Nick's father breezes in, has a single conversation, spouting self-involved, moronic things and Nick swallows it down hook, line, and sinker.
Authors, this makes Nick a complete and utter moron and going from that to hurting Alexa makes him the giantest douchnozzle that ever nozzed.
I had such fun reading Jennifer Probst’s “The Marriage Bargain.” Both characters stole my heart from the very start.
Alexa needs money to save her family’s home from foreclosure.
Nick needs a wife to fulfill the conditions set forth in his uncle’s will allowing him to inherit full control of his family’s business.
If she’ll be his wife for one year, he’ll give her the money she needs.
It’s well written and full of sexual heat and witty dialogue.
I absolutely loved “The Marriage Bargain” and I'm looking forward to reading more of Jennifer Probst’s books!
This is a fun, sexy read that I enjoyed...3.5 starsJennifer Probst took the Marriage of Convenience plot and with her witty dialog, the strong build of sexual tension and finally those hot love scenes and made this a winner.
Nick Ryan doesn't believe in marriage stating the "dream of forever is a fairy tale." I loved watching Alexa break through his self-made barriers and bring this hot-blooded, sexy man to his knees.
His life is ruled by logic and reason and is determined to not fall in love.As much as I fell in love with the hero, I loved Alexa as well.
Sin lugar a dudas, el epílogo casi acaba conmigo xDD(view spoiler)[Alexa rompe aguas, y a Nick le da un ataque de pánico y termina yendo al hospital sin ella en el coche.JAJAJAJAJAJAJA (hide spoiler)]
This book is delicious,sexy, fun, and hit the points into marriage life. I love the characters. Especially alexa. She is a kick ass heroine. She is sassy, clever and vulnerable. She plays nick like a fine violin. I just laugh out loud of her seduction method. And nick... poor nick. He is such a logic male that has no idea how to deal with alexa. But i adore his love towards alexa. Love love these 2 characters. 5 perfect stars.
