https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/133489.The_Cat_Who_Saw_Red
Review  Qwill, KoKo and YumYum are at it again in The Cat Who Saw Red, the 4th book in Lilian Jackson Braun's "Cat Who" cozy mystery series. The interesting thing about this novel, besides my 3 star review (ha!), is that this is the first novel she published after taking a 20+ year hiatus from the series. The last ones were written in the 1960s and this was published in 1986. While she was busy writing it, I believe I was watching the NY Mets with the season championship. But I digress...For a
Qwill, KoKo and YumYum are at it again in The Cat Who Saw Red, the 4th book in Lilian Jackson Braun's "Cat Who" cozy mystery series.
The interesting thing about this novel, besides my 3 star review (ha!), is that this is the first novel she published after taking a 20+ year hiatus from the series.
But I digress...For a cozy, this one's a little stronger than usual.
The mystery is a little stronger than usual, which helps.
Plus I like seeing Qwill try out different places to live.
I write A LOT.
Many thanks to their original creators.[polldaddy poll=9729544]	[polldaddy poll=9719251]
Terrific read. Interesting and fun interactions between the newsman & his two cats. Nifty mystery, too. Relaxing read, just what I was looking for.
These books are like potato chips; they are not terribly satisfying or substantive but you cannot stop with just one.
I do enjoy the series and like the way each one (so far) has focused on a different form of art.
This book centers on culinary art and pottery.
Qwilleran has inspired me to begin growing a mustache.
I still have not felt any quivers from the roots of my mustache yet.
I haven't gone so far as to acquire a Siamese cat...yet.
For his first article, Qwill visits Maus Haus, which is a kind of rooming house/commune for people involved with food; and it also contains a working pottery where, to his surprise, he runs into his former flame.
As has been his MO, Qwill moves in to Maus Haus, his fourth home in as many books.
Unsurprisingly, there is soon a mystery that needs solving: two of the Maus Haus residents go missing and Qwill and the cats smell a rat.
A few characters from previous books make brief appearances including Arch Riker and photographer Odd Bunsen who, we learn, is soon to the become the proud father of his 7th child!We see some promising character development: Qwill has grown.
Questa volta il reporter Qwilleran si ritrova a dover scrivere articoli per una rubrica di cucina e,
. ." book because after Braun wrote the first 3 in the '60's, she picked up the series and continued it in '80's--twenty years later!
I was so surprised that this story picked right up where the last on had left off!
I couldn't tell for sure since now the '80's are thirty years ago themselves, but I think it was still set in a '60's world.
It is fun that the cat's and Qwilleran's intuition (or might I say Qwill's mustache's intuition!!)is many times the key to moving things along.
Light and fun and a trip back in time to boot!
I liked this book slightly more than the last few from this series, mainly because it was more suspenseful WITHOUT a body being found. I liked wondering where the missing people were, and the possibility that they were okay after all. As a comment overall for the series, it is getting a bit silly that the main character literally moves somewhere new every single book to conveniently correspond with what he's working on at the paper. There were also some blatant spelling/grammatical errors, like using "their" instead of "there", for example.
Sinceramente, este libro se lleva tres estrellas (deberían ser dos) por la presencia de los dos gatetes semiprotagonistas.¿Quiere decir esto que es un mal libro?
Aunque es un libro, por lo menos en mi opinión, lleno de carencias y clichés pertenecientes al ámbito de la novela barata de bolsillo, tengo que reconocer que, en la circunstancia adecuada, es un libro perfectamente disfrutable.
Un libro de esos que lees en un viaje largo, o una tarde aburrida y, aunque no van a hacer que los recuerdes dentro de 10 años, habrán conseguido mantenerte entretenido durante el tiempo que buceas por sus páginas.
I think the series really hit it's stride with this one.
This was a fun read. This is the fourth book in this series and so far I’ve enjoyed them all. Not a lot of substance but highly entertaining. I figured out who the murderer was quite early but it did have a surprise twist at the end that was fascinating.
Not to mention how well Lilian Jackson Braun understands cat behaviour, such as when Qwill attempts to feed Koko and Yum Yum cat food in place for their usual delicacies:“When he arrived home, Koko and Yum Yum were sitting in compact bundles on the windowsill, and their behavior indicated that they sensed the nature of the situation.
Qwilleran picked Koko up bodily and plumped him down in front of the pate, and Koko stood there with legs splayed, frozen in the position in which he had landed, glaring at the evil-looking purple smear on theplate.
3 StarsAnother cozy mystery with our favorite cats, and Qwilleran, of course.
Qwill and felines move to an new apartment full of eccentrics and artists (of one sort or another); and happens upon a mystery.
He meets an old flame, and now new neighbor (married), that settles him into this new place.
As he starts to question her disappearance, another neighbor disappears, and the cats are in jeopardy.
Is this part of the old curse of this off-kilter abode, full of death, or is there really something more sinister going on??
Of course, Koko or Yum-Yum, save the day and all is right with the world.
1st time read - hardcover2nd time read - kindle
Four books in and I am still loving this series about Qwilleran and all the quirky people he meets. Koko and Yum Yum are hysterical.
Book on CD read by George Guidall This is book four in a delightful cozy mystery series starring newspaper reporter Jim Qwilleran and his two Siamese - Koko and Yum Yum. As the novel opens, Qwill has started a new diet, which is complicated when he’s assigned to write a new gourmet column for the paper.
He starts by attending a gourmet club meeting at Maus Haus, the home of an attorney, where he meets an old flame.
George Guidall does a satisfactory job of reading the audiobook.
I read about a third of it in text as that was faster.
Jim Qwilleran and his mustache,along with Siamese cats,Koko and Yum Yum,unravel another mystery.Listened with TTSClean except forsome mild Foul Language.
Mary Duckworth (from book 3 in the series) suggests that he attend a Gourmet Club dinner at Maus Haus in her place and review the owner Robert Maus who is cooking dinner for the club.
The book, as usual, is filled with quirky characters:- William Vitello, the young, amiable art student who also works as a houseboy at Maus Haus.- Mrs. Marron, the depressed housekeeper and cook who lets Qwilleran think his cats are dead.- Max Sorrel, the owner of the Golden Lamb Chop restaurant where someone is out to ruin his business.- Rosemary Whiting who is into healthful living and is of indefinite age.- Hixie Rice is young, plump, loud, and looking desperately for a husband.- Charlotte Roop, an older prim and proper lady who only has a "bite to eat" and not a meal.
An early title in the series, but nevertheless Koko is just as switched one as ever, as Qwilleran deciphers the clues he is leaving in their new residence, Maus House.
Something shifty is going on in the pottery area of the house, and Koko suspects murder and more.
Poor Qwill is on a diet, and has just received a new beat; that of a food critic, much to his dismay.
The scene with the generic cat food was funny, there is nothing like trying to get your cat to eat something cheaper and failing miserably.
I love the Cat Who. books, but is was my least favorite.
I appreciated that it aged better than the earlier two books in the series I read.
This one seemed better.) I was also amused by the fact that the murder in this murder mystery, while it happens pretty early on in the novel, isn't truly announced until the end.This is a solid installment in a fun series.
Not a keeper book for me, but worth the read.
Still, it was a lot of fun, and while I doubt any of the minor characters in this novel will be returning in future books (much though I would enjoy further character development for some of them) it was good to see more of the secondary characters at Qwill's newspaper.
This was the first in the series that I read and it made me a (so far) lifelong buyer and reader of LJB's books.
A couple caveats: I was 22 at the time, I was taking a train 2 hours a day for a job I did not love.
I needed a reason to live.
These books helped.
It was also before Qwill became very wealthy, which was an interesting turn of events but ultimately led the series to stagnate.
I am still not convinced LJB wrote the last couple Cat who books.
This is my second try at The Cat Who series and I found this one much more enjoyable then the first one I read. Even though I had a pretty good idea who was responsible for the crime about half way through, the story line kept me reading and still pertained to the case. My actual rating would be a 3.5 (they really need to put half stars in the rating system). I look forward to reading more in the series.
I love this quirky mystery series that features two extraordinary Siamese cats, Koko and Yum Yum, who help newspaper reporter Jim Qwilleran solve mysteries. The Cat Who Saw Red involves gastronomes and potters.
What a fun read! Think this is my favourite so far in the series. Loved the quirky characters and the setting. Entertaining light reading that keeps you interested until the last page.
Another fun read. I really think these are best read in order.
Letzteres wird besonders nah beleuchtet und vermittelt so einige interessante Fakten, die ich bisher nicht kannte.Wenn man eines sagen kann, dann das es Lilian Jackson Braun schaffte, auf wenigen Seiten eine tolle Story zu verfassen, die unterhält, spannend ist und stets überrascht.
Ich spürte beim Lesen, fast schon den Ton auf der Haut, was eindeutig für das Buch spricht.Wer die Vorbände gelesen hat, der wird Jim Qwilleran mittlerweile ein Begriff sein.
Qwill, wie er stets genannt wird, arbeitet für eine Zeitung und schreibt die Texte für die Kunstsparte, er hat ein bewegtes Leben hinter sich, welches man nach und nach in den einzelnen Büchern der Reihe erfährt.
A nice little mystery, the first I have read from the series. I particularly enjoyed the witty observations about the cats' behaviour.
I had read this book as a kid, and forgot until the last fifty pages. Nevertheless, still a good read.
Lillian Jackson Braun composes memorable stories for cat lovers, mystery lovers, and leisure readers that is hard to forget.
I have read four others in the series now, and am really enjoying Braun's stories.
Qwilleran's humanity is well captured here.The other two detectives in Braun's whimsical mystery are whiskery Koko and feisty Yum Yum. These cats are as well personified as Qwill himself and take as much part in the action of the story as the human characters do.
I have been teaching reading and writing since 1997, and this book provides a lot of examples of character development, setting description, world-building, and natural progression of events.
I like the theme that weaves throughout this mystery of putting to rest ghosts from the past.And as always, I love the cats and the mustache.
