https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13206760-scarlet
“She did not know that the wolf was a wicked sort of animal, and she was not afraid of him.” 3 1/2 stars. I do not know that this is actually an amazing book, but dammit, it was entertaining. Honestly, I pretty much hated Cinder when I finally forced myself through it last year. It was a 1-star, ranty hate at all the wasted potential and - worst of all - tediousness. But so many commenters told me to read Scarlet anyway. At first, I wasn't going to. Seems kind of stupid to read the sequel to a
“She did not know that the wolf was a wicked sort of animal, and she was not afraid of him.”
I do not know that this is actually an amazing book, but dammit, it was entertaining.
Seems kind of stupid to read the sequel to a book you disliked so much, right?
I think Scarlet is a much more interesting and less bland character than Cinder, and her introduction to the story actually contributed to making Cinder and her story more exciting.
It still feels very much like a light, YA sci-fi and yet the fire in this book makes the pages fly by and the characters appeal to me.
(more of a 3.5)I really enjoyed this installment in the Lunar Chronicles, but I didn't think it was as good as Cinder. I was annoyed reading about Scarlet throughout this book. We really didn't get to know her, we only saw her concerned about her grandmother and wolf. I did love the sections that were focused on Cinder though! I also really liked how the two story lines came together. I'm looking forward to jumping into Cress!
I know that not every genre can work for everyone, but it’s always unfortunate to learn something like this.
I just realized how dramatic my confession must have sounded, but I can’t help it if that’s how I felt at that time.But, the thing is, after reading Cinder, Scarlet and some of their short stories and LOVING all of them – Scarlet the most however – I realized that, in the book world too, it is not exclusively black or white.
Even better than CINDER! I could NOT put it down yesterday. And when I was forced to put it down (yes, FORCED), I could NOT stop thinking about it. It was absolutely amazing. Beautiful and heartbreaking and action-packed and just...wow. Can't wait for the next book!!!
“Even in the Future the Story Begins with Once Upon a Time.”   Once Upon a Time, there was a little girl (let's call her Rina) who loved fairytales. Her favorite was Red Riding Hood, and she knew this story by heart since she was 2-years-old (everyone thought that this was a sign of her intelligence but in my opinion it was a warning. A warning that she'd never shup up). The girl grew up and decided to become a lawyer (so that people would pay her to talk non-stop) and she came across a horrib
Once Upon a Time, there was a little girl (let's call her Rina) who loved fairytales.
She read it because Marissa Meyer had the wondeful ability to make her forget her fears, her insecurities and worries and instead she introduced her to a world where Cinderella was a cyborg and a fugitive who tried to come to terms with the revelations that changed her life, where the Big Bad Wolf was a boy that tried to control his bloodlust and questioned the way he was raised, where Little Red was a feisty girl who would do anything to save her grandmother and smugglers were extremely hot.
There should be more to this book.I'm a sucker for a good fairytale rewrite - so I (mostly) enjoyed this retelling of Red Riding Hood. BUT, the couple in this one (Scarlet and Wolf) and the book in general seemed to be missing something.  “What’s your name, anyway?”That awkward shrug again. “They call me Wolf at the fights.”“ Wolf? How … predatory." It's like they are on the cusp of being truly great but fell a smidge short. Their rapport just seemed...off... Forced might be a better word.  “Wol
BUT, the couple in this one (Scarlet and Wolf) and the book in general seemed to be missing something.
Great, I'll follow him into the wilderness.)Or maybe it was the frustrating subplot.
I liked most of it - especially the subtle hints of the characters yet to come and I really look forward to the next one!Edit: As pointed out by Angela's Booked, I completely neglected to mention the absolute best part of the book: Thorne.I mean, how could you not love him?There's this: 
"But I'm a wanted fugitive, like Cinder." Thorne continued.
I was lucky to score an advanced copy of Scarlet from Marissa Meyer while at Comic Con.Totally me.I was in the middle of another book which I quickly finished in order to start this.
I, like I'm sure most will be, was more concerned with what was happening with Cinder and Prince Kai than I was with Scarlet and her journey.
But Meyer's storytelling would not let that be, and I found myself eagerly enjoying Scarlet's feisty personality while also searching for how Scarlet would come to meet Cinder.
i was a bit apprehensive at how it would work, being able to develop more of the story told in cinder and also tell the new story of scarlet, but i thought there was a really nice balance between the two.
and i absolutely adored all the new characters - i felt so spoiled that so many were introduced in this book.
i also feel the need to mention that this series is giving me so many new book boyfriends.
god bless marissa meyer, is all im saying.im so excited to continue this series.
cant wait to see how the story continues to play out!!↠ 4.5 stars
Wolf is a bit more complex because of his past (which I can't talk about due le spoilers), but I like the mystery surrounding his character.Scarlet is fantastic.
(Maybe this was just me wanting more from Scarlet.) Even though Scarlet is longer than Cinder, I'd even say that I think that there was too much happening in this installment and not enough time spent developing the new characters or the new relationships, which, incidentally, leads to my next con...2.
Since the novel very frequently flips back and forth from Scarlet to Cinder and even Kai, there wasn't much page time the reader is left developing some kind of connection with their relationship.
Edit: i kind if realized how much i hate myself for giving this four stars. I have sinned omg, changing my rating to five stars like right fucking now, THIS BOOK WAS TEN THOUSAND TIMES BETTER THAN Cinder. Scarlet and Wolf will be the literal death of me. I'm incapable of writing a review for this. It's just....READ IT PLS. THIS LAST IMAGE KILLED ME. I actually screamed you guys.I love Wolf so much it hurts. I need a Wolf in my life.
"She did not know that the wolfwas a wicked sort of animal, and she was not afraid of him." She is sassy and fiesty. He is dark, mysterious, and ADORABLE! What more do you need people?! . . . Did i mention she carries a gun around?? Yeah, you don't mess with that one. ;) "Wait until morning," he said. "The world wont be safe tonight." Still cant find a perfect Wolf! This will do for now. Who do you guys picture as Wolf? Now that i have read all four books, i can say this without a doubt Scarlet
Still cant find a perfect Wolf!
Who do you guys picture as Wolf?
Now that i have read all four books, i can say this without a doubt Scarlet and Wolf are indeed my favorite of them all!
It might have something to do with Rapunzel being my favorite fairytale, or me being uncomfortable with the idea of welcoming a new main character, especially since i know almost nothing about the Red Ridding Hood.
I JUST LOVE THESE TWO SO FREAKING MUCH!Holland Roden would make a perfect Scarlet.I have read this book 3 times already, it's about time I move onto the audiobook.
*4.5*I loved seeing all of the storylines coming coming together and the different perspectives. Things got crazy in this one and it was awesome! Loving this series.
In terms of plot, Scarlet suffers from predictability issues, partly because the story follows Little Red Riding Hood and partly because much of Wolf's character is spoiled by The Queen's Army.
(view spoiler)[There was no question in my mind that Wolf was going to betray Scarlet and that his finding her was all part of the plan because of the fairytale.
(view spoiler)[Despite having met only a week prior and having spent maybe two days together total, by the end of the story they have fallen in love, risked their lives for each other, and decide to be life partners.
The things people loved about Cinder are still true in Scarlet.
11/8/15 - UPDATED thoughts and miscellany: Still my favorite in the series, for more than one reason. Obviously, I love Wolf. But I equally love Scarlet: “I just think we shouldn’t judge her, or anyone, without trying to understand them first. That maybe we should get the full story before jumping to conclusions. Crazy notion, I know.” PREACH. And while most people would react to Wolf's "enhancements" with disgust: “So are there any other oddities I should know about? A tail, perhaps?” Finally,
Reviewed by: Rabid ReadsThe first time I read SCARLET, I nearly lost my mind.CINDER had been one of my favorite reads from the previous year, and I had waited the entire twelve months for the next installment to come out.
Toss in Cinder’s new sidekick (and fellow jail-break-ee) Thorne, who is equal parts swagger, flirtation, and hilarity, and what’s not to like?Cress, the third book in the Lunar Chronicles, is TBR February 4, 2014—NEXT WEEK.My other reviews for this series:
Cinder (The Lunar Chronicles, #1)
4.5I loved this book! I don't think I liked it as much as Cinder but I still really enjoyed it. I just love being in this world. Things I loved:-Scarlet/Wolf <3-Cinder and Thorne's friendship -Iko being a ship -Captain Thorne. I read the majority of the book in one night, I was so addicted to it. I'm very excited to move onto Cress now as it seems to be most peoples favorite.
I honestly really liked this book, I liked the new characters.
I can't even decide between Scarlet, Wolf and Thorne because they al bring something different to the plot.The building of the story progressed really well, I was curious as to how these two stories would entwine, but it was apparent quite early(ish) on.
Little attention to detail like this made me really happy and just think of the story that this once was.I honestly think I preferred Scarlet and Wolfs story rather than Cinder and Thornes, although later on in the later chapters I did enjoy this.
REVIEW TO COME TODAY~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  I AM REREADING IT NOW   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   I WILL REREAD THIS SERIES THIS YEAR  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Second Read Review  "I just think we shouldn't judge her, or anyone, without trying to understand them first. That maybe we should get the full story before jumping to conclusions. Crazy notion, I know." the first time I read this book was in 2015 and I LOVED it so much and this book instantl
I mean, I fell in love with Wolf when I read this book for the first time and I really really loved him so much until I even wrote his name all over my school books and my friends even called me weird for loving him but well, I didn't care and after I finished reread Cinder, I was so excited to start this one because I used to love this book so much but I think that time I loved this book so much because I loved Wolf and I expected myself to love Wolf even more when I reread but it didn't happen and honestly, I was sad I didn't love him anymore and I don't know why I thought this book was slow burn romance because I didn't think it's slow romance.
I don't know why so many people dislike this book.
I thought it was cool!
Scarlet is competent and resourceful and I really like her as a character, and I didn't find the plot boring at all.
I was always super interested in learning more about the wolf lunar people.
They're like werewolves but not werewolves because...
Science.
Also, CAPTAIN THORNE!
Damn, I love that guy.
He's like a slightly dumb yet still totally charming Han Solo.
I even pictured the Millennium Falcon as his ship for the whole book.And by the end, I'm already itching to dive into Cinder.
I re read this on audioI love Scarlet so much and of course, Wolf!
***SOME SPOILERS***Scarlet has been looking for her grandma ma.
On this one trip, Scarlet manages to meet Wolf and he ends up coming with her.
Meanwhile, Cinder is in jail and she meets Thorne.
Iko ends up becoming the ship, fun times.
Cinder and Thorne end up meeting up with Scarlet and Wolf down the line and they are all in it together now.
Scarlet continues on with Cinder and new people that you love and hate.
I'm so glad to have started reading these books.
I can't even find the words to describe him because all I want to do when I think about Wolf is(I'd highly recommend reading The Queen's Army before Scarlet because it's going to provide a lot more back story to Wolf's character.)Cinder's adventure is continued in this book and picks up soon after her arrest at the Ball.
Thorne provided some much appreciated comic relief throughout the story, and OH MY GOODNESS, you guys, I am 95% sure he's going to be the love interest featured in the next book!
"It would be easy to abuse a person when they never recognized it as abuse."It probably shouldn't come as a surprise for those who have been following my progress updates on this but I enjoyed reading this a lot more than Cinder :') Firstly, the characterization was what grabbed my attention from Cinder and I'm so glad that Marissa Meyer introduced even more characters for me to fall for in Scarlet.
- NEW MAIN CHARACTERS: SCARLET, WOLF AND THORNE!!!- Scarlet is a fighter.
The world became 100000x more interesting in this book (view spoiler)[because “Lunar Special Operatives” ;) (hide spoiler)]- THERE WAS A PLOT TWIST THAT I DIDN’T PREDICT FOR ONCE!- Cinder, Thorne, Iko, Scarlet and Wolf as a SQUAD.- I’m craving a cinnamon roll.
4.5 StarsOverview:  “I just think we shouldn't judge her, or anyone, without trying to understand them first.”  I read Cinder almost a year ago, and was very underwhelmed. In fact, I didn’t really plan on continuing the series. Except bestie kept bugging me about it.So I started this, a little reluctantly. And then...THIS WAS SO MUCH BETTER THAN CINDER. LIKE WHAT. Pros: By far my biggest problem with the first book was how predictable it was. Like we all could all pretty much guess what the dea
Scarlet’s story blended very well with Cinder's to expand upon this really interesting world.
Kai is still a little boring to me, but Cinder really started to come into her own.
How do I count the ways?-	Started a prison riot over soap-	Winks during his mugshot -	Seems to ship Cinder and Kai after watching one press conference-	Leather jackets-	Befriends a cyborg in a society prejudiced against them-	Tells Iko she’s “the prettiest” He gave me Han Solo and Jack Harkness vibes (two other cocky space-captains I love) and really invigorated a ton of desperately needed humor into this story.
Marissa Meyer Was There For Me When No One Else Wasreview 2 come----------currently-reading updatesScarlet and Wolf = Matthias and Nina and that's the tea-----this is officially a Binge Read™
His friendship with Cinder is everything.This book was actually the weakest one in the series for me but I still loved it in the end!
The characters and their stories haven't all come together or synced up yet, so the story is very split between Scarlet & Wolf on their mission and then Cinder & Thorne doing their own thing.
I wasn't totally sure what to make of Wolf and his pack at first, but I liked him way more in the sequels.This whole story was super creative and I LOVED the way everyone's storylines came together at the end!
*4.5 STARS*First read - 15th February 2014Reread - 13th November 2015I don't know, for some reason this is my least favourite in the series?
I usually take a break between books in a series, not this time - I'm binge reading them.
I'm!! A!! Mess!! (scroll down to see why) Exhibit #1)  Flirting at Gunpoint:  “I will shoot, you know.”“I know.” A flicker of kindness passed over him and he pointed at his temple. “You’ll want to aim for the head. That usually makes for a fatal shot. Or, if you’re feeling really shaky, the torso. It’s a larger target.”“Your head looks pretty big from here.”He laughed — the expression changing everything about him. His stance relaxed, his face warmed. Not that I’m the worlds biggest expert on Wh
(Unless it’s a girl living alone on a farm and you’re a handsome dude with gorgeous eyes).
“How big is the pack?”“I don’t know, what’s normal?
She was still shaking, couldn’t stop shaking.Her mind emptied of everything but the gusting wind and how fragile Wolf looked in that heartbeat, like one movement could break him open.“I’m all right,” she assured him again, wrapping her free arm around his back and pulling him toward her until she could curl up beneath the shelter of his body, burying her head against his neck.
Scarlet gasped as Wolf buried one hand into her mess of curls and kissed her back.
When all hope is lost Scarlet meets Wolf - a young street fighter who seems to know more about her grandmother and the people who took her.
This time the main character part is divided into two female characters - Scarlet and Cinder.
Relationships 🌟🌟🌟“I think I realized that I would rather die because I betrayed them, than live because I betrayed you.”  I like that in this series there is always a cute fluffy love story with the typical heartbreaking and swoon-worthy scenes.
This time there are Scarlet and Wolf - two different people with two different paths who found their way to each other.
SO GOOD. Just wow, amazing! Marissa Meyer has done it yet again!
I put off reading this for like two years because I really didn't like Cinder, but holy crap. I liked this 382827282x more than I liked Cinder. Wow. Wowwwwww.
