https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/399598.The_Bobbsey_Twins_Adventure_in_Washington
It was a cute book, and well-written, but I couldn't get over how the twins (even the six year old ones!) were allowed to wander the city alone.
I can't see this happening even in 1963, especially since one of the crimes they were trying to solve was a real, "grown-up" theft and not just a neighborhood mystery.I read this aloud to my 6- and 8-year-old nieces, who really enjoyed the story.
I enjoyed watching them figure out certain clues and theorizing about what might happen next.This book was technically first written in 1919, but was completely rewritten in 1963.
Cute, but not my favorite of the Bobbsey twins book.
I was three when this book was published. It was the only reading choice at the cottage thanks to a devastating Kobo fail so I thought I'd give it a whirl. I couldn't stop reading it aloud to my niece and stepkids on the cottage dock. First: who knew that there are TWO sets of Bobbsey twins!? I loved that a couple of six-year olds were allowed to roam Washington under the watchful eyes of their twelve-year old siblings, chasing criminals and helping the DC cops crack a case!
Loved this book as a child. Wholesome adventure. Loved reading this again as a Grandma. It was written @ the beginning of the Space Race so it was very interesting to re-read it again 44 years later!
I loved The Bobbsey Twins series when I was a kid, and I read all that I could put my hands on.
I had discovered a set of them in my grandmother's attic, and they were all the original editions, published in the early years of the 20th century.
I loved visiting with Nan and Bert, and Freddie and Flossie.
The plot is simple: Mr. Bobbsey takes the family to Washington, DC on an extended business trip.
This Kindle edition has not been rewritten for present-day children, and as such, would not appeal to present-day young readers.

Perhaps my imagination is too active, but knowing that these B. Twins books were written by ghost writers and committees, I felt like whomever wrote this one has a wicked sense of humor. There seemed to be a faint touch of irony to the formulaic descriptions of the kids and a tongue implanted in a cheek during some of the "mishaps" that so readily befall the kids in these stories. I only have 3 of these left to read from the original public domain avialable series and this is far and away the most entertaining one so far.
The Bobbsey's visit Washington DC on a class tripand solve two mysteries: The missing plans of an inventor they know, and the missing pieces of a tea set for Miss Pomfret.My what another world it was. Where kids could leave their school trip and go all over DC by themselves, walking up to strangers and ask questions. LOL I loved the DC setting with all its visits to landmarks and places I know. I laughed at their amazement at the "foreign" food shishkabobs. Very nostalgic read.
I read every Bobbsey Twins adventures I could get my hands on from the age of 9 through 11. Summers were wonderful and I could borrow from the library and read these books. I could borrow 8 books every 2 weeks. Soon, I needed more than that and had to fight the librarian for more books. Now, I can do 8 books in a day. Sigh.
The Bobbsey Twins Adventure in Washington (Original Bobbsey Twins #12) by Laura Lee Hope (Grosset & Dunlap 2004) (Fiction - Children's). The twins go on a field trip to the nation's capitol. Adventures seen to follow wherever they go! My rating: 7/10, finished 1967.
I remember reading the Bobbsey Twins books when I was little. Reaqding one as an adult brought back memories. The book is a bit silly with the little twins doing naughty things and not getting in trouble.
