https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/184592.Father_Brown
I give "Father Brown, The Essential Tales" three stars because G.K. Chesterton is a talented writer, and there are some beautiful moments of prose in these stories.
Don't just expect much from the plot, and you will be fine.In the introduction to this collection P.D. James recommends not reading this book in one sitting, but rather reading each story as a separate piece and coming back to it in that manner.
I read a single tale each time I finished another book, and approaching it in that way made its flaws more easily digestible.I am glad that Father Brown is now part of my literary knowledge, and the tales have some lovely moments.
"Chesterton inherited from the aesthetes of the 1880s and 1890s the conviction hat a writer should be continuously 'bright' and epigrammatic...When he is really enthralled by a subject he is brilliant, without any doubt one of the finest aphorists in English literature." -- W.H. Auden As P.D James writes in her introduction  "Gilbert Keith Chesterton...was a man of letters*."  By this she means that G.K. Chesterton is one of those authors who prolifically earned his living solely by what he wro
In my view it is an excellent collection to allow anyone to get into the world of Father Brown.
However in this case P.D. James wrote such a compelling introduction that I read it all the way through before starting a single story.
Writers who write for artistic reasons and create stories with ideas and the aim to show something about the world.I fully recommend you read any of The Father Brown short stories.
Father Brown is a great mystery figure and Chesterton's work is grand inspiration.
Chesterton affirms the nature of a "mind like Christ" through Father Brown, who demonstrates both strict reason and spiritual/philosophical truths in perceiving the true nature of men and women.
Where most crime-fighters and heroes in literature seem eager to see the law and enforce it, Father Brown's approach to both the innocent and guilty are different.
His astonishment that a pudgy local priest would presume to disturb him at his home for advice on the suitability in marriage of two local villagers is mirrored only by Father Brown's own astonishment at him."You see, they want to get married," said the man with the clerical hat.
Unlike Dupin, Holmes, or Poirot, Father Brown is not an extraordinary person. He is the exact definition of a dull and ordinary man caught in extraordinary circumstances-- again and again, against all likelihood or plausibility. Nor does he claim to be a detective of any sort, not even amateur. His practice is not the science behind a crime but the experience of human behavior, and examining unspoken motives. Though not every story necessarily a gem, Chesterton's tales of Brown are a thing of genius, and the tradition has yet to faithfully followed.
But this being Chesterton, the writing is rich and lyrical and Father Brown is definitely not a conventional detective.
And in one of those dizzy places, where the whole world seemed to turn under him like a wheel, his rained turned also and he fancied he was God. So that though he was a good man, he committed a great crime.' "Father Brown is the central figure in all these stories.
My favourite stories definitely feature him.I think the Father Brown stories are for fans of Chesterton, for people who already like Orthodoxy or The Man Who Was Thursday.
Nobody does notice the postman. Chesterton is a keen observer of 'us.' Always a bit of a moral included, as well as a word or two of true wisdom. Though the stories are dated in their physical social setting, they are a bit more than just fun reads. Recommended.
Rather gentle murder mysteries steeped in Englishness. I wouldn't say these are light (there are after all corpses), but the stories offer little intensity of emotion and minimal character development. The introduction is excellent (I learned much about Chesterton that I did not know) and the second story, "The Secret Garden," was startling, but if I want English mysteries I think I would opt for Dorothy Sayers' Lord Peter Wimsey.
An utter disappointment. I'd heard about Chesterton's Father Brown stories over the years, but had never read any until now. These are supposed to be mystery stories, but the solutions are almost uniformly trite or inane. That would be ok if the characterizations were worthwhile. Unfortunately, Father Brown is an empty stick figure and his sometime sidekick, Flambeau, doesn't come close to being a Watson.I won't be returning to Father Brown.
Very enjoyable, sometimes showing their age, some stories more clever and better than others but always very well written. Glad to have more insight into the classics of the mystery genre.
This is a collection of fifteen short stories featuring the Catholic priest, Father Brown, as he is called upon to solve a variety of mysteries. While dated, they are still an excellent read.
It's bad theology." There's a straightforwardness to these stories and Father Brown's faith, which don't require the reader to be religious (and in fact reward reason over superstition), but which certainly feel affirming if you happen to be Catholic.
Much as I love conflict, challenge, and moral / philosophical demandingness in the books I read, reading this felt like relaxing with a circle of understanding girlfriends who might push the occasional difficult issue but mostly make you feel you're doing pretty well with your life.
I haven't read any other Father Brown collections, so I don't have much grounds for comparison.
Chesterton moralizes and proselytizes with a hammer (condemning his vicious characters, but also, more subtly, those of his readers who don't share his Catholic perspective).
He is an undeniably gifted writer, and these gifts are on display here, but though his prose style is admirable, his storytelling is dry and tedious.
The would-be Chesterton reader might consider looking elsewhere before this collection.
The Man Who Was Thursday, for instance, displays a shrewdness and subtlety entirely lacking in the Father Brown stories—the storytelling in the former is far more energetic and whimsical.As P.D. James notes in the introduction, Father Brown is good in small doses.
He becomes tedious after more than that.
I like the character of Father Brown.
I like how he goes about solving things.
I like the idea of these stories.
I don't so much like the way they are written.
The descriptions are so frequent and long that the important things get lost in them.
But perhaps detective stories are not the place for it.
I once commented that it was like Nathaniel Hawthorne had written Sherlock or Poirot.
While it does get easier to wade through the annoyingly vivid yet beautiful descriptions, and easier to follow the workings of Father Brown, I have lost the enjoyment of it.
As a lover of the BBC television series, I was pleased to find this collection of essential stories in a book bar in Portsmouth, New Hampshire.
Father Brown is a humble sleuth whose unprepossessing air conceals sharp intelligence.
In each story, Father Brown uses his skills of observation and knowledge of the human psyche to discern the motives of killers and to ultimately solve the crimes the police are unable to work out.
Every word G.K Chesterton writes is written with absolute intention.
Of the fifteen stories, my favorite are "The Blue Cross" and "The Queer Feet."
Collection of short mystery stories that can each be read in a sitting . Chesterton has a way of turning a phrase which makes the descriptive parts of the reading entertaining. The mysteries themselves are well designed. At least in this collection, Father Brown himself is so boring he is almost an anti-hero. He has none of the quirks of say Poirot or Holmes, but the humility and humor his author endowed him are enjoyable if subtle.
Elegantly and wryly written, the stories are complete, fully fleshed out, with memorable characters and plots. Chesterton’s insights into human nature and his observations about his characters are often hilarious and always illuminating. What an erudite and witty man. I recommend that serious readers begin a relationship with Chesterton.
I read this because I've watched the BBC series & was curious about the stories on which the show is based. Honestly, I was a bit disappointed. Chesterton was good a describing setting, but was lacking in terms of character development. On top of that, Brown is frequently a side character in his own stories, many of which end abruptly, feeling unfinished.
Absolutely charming.
A collection of short mystery tales akin to the Sherlock Holmes series. Father Brown is a likable character and the dialogue is witty.
Witness the Chesterton Society, which selected the stories for this Father Brown anthology, and pay particular note to the list of his collected works they publish.
A monstrous thirty-four volumes.The side of Chesterton that I personally am fond of is that voice cultivated in his works such as The Club of Queer Trades, a book framed like a mystery—but which is really just a whimsical and supernatural tale at heart.
His two sleuth characters in that book, Rupert and Basil Grant, are just extremely lovable.My trouble with mystery stories lies in what they sacrifice in order to be sufficiently brain-teasing.
I just really wish he would have given Basil Grant the same time he gave Father Brown.
His clothes included a slight, pale grey jacket, a white waistcoat, and a silver straw hat with a grey-blue ribbon.
There was nothing about him to indicate the fact that the grey jacket covered a loaded revolver, that the white waistcoat covered a police card, or that the straw hat covered one of the most powerful intellects in Europe." pg.3And so begins the first of fifteen lovely adventures with the innocuous appearing, but brilliantly observant Catholic priest, Father Brown.
Each story is a unique experience that transports the reader to another time.
In context of the times (as one of the early detective characters), he's clever and intuitive.
They also tend to be full of descriptive areas that bore, but some of the stories are clever.
However, if you like to see the evolution of the mystery story, I can see why Father Brown is considered a classic.Even the person who picked the book, though, said that this was not representative of the writing she really liked.
She picked some quotes of his for our discussion that proved to me what a clever and capable writer he was--and also what an astute observer of human nature.
After going through a few G.K. Chestertons on the recommendation of his appearing in The Sandman, I give him the big thumbs down.
He was a prolific writer but despite the changes in genre, he is a man of one theme and that is Christianity and not a nice Christianity at that.
Chesterton reads as if he would be the kind of person you would avoid at any party because he would insist on witnessing to you.
He hangs around rich people and converts criminals rather than turn them over to the police despite the fact that they turn up again after having hurt and even murdered more people.
A humorous book filled with short story mysteries.
Each short story is unique in its own way.
Discussing only the first nine chapters/short stories which included:The Blue Cross, The Secret Garden, The Queer Feet, The Flying Stars, the Invisible Man, The Honour of Israel Gow, The Sins of Prince Saradine, The Hammer of God, and the Three Tools of Death.
I enjoyed the first nine short stories, that I continued on my own to complete the book.
Some of the short stories are harder to imagine and understand, so it helps to review in a group setting.
Check out the opening passage of "The Honour of Israel Gow": "A stormy evening of olive and silver was closing in, as Father Brown, wrapped in a grey Scotch plaid, came to the end of a grey Scotch valley and beheld the strange castle of Glengyle.
It stopped one end of the glen or hollow like a blind alley; and it looked like the end of the world.
Rising in steep roofs and spires of seagreen slate in the manner of the old French-Scotch chateaux, it reminded an Englishman of the sinister steeple-hats of witches in fairy tales; and the pine woods that rocked round the green turrets looked, by comparison, as black as numberless flocks of ravens .
This collection of stories is a hard read.
I do not believe reading the individual collections would be more helpful .
Often the introductory material of each story failed to help me to grasp the situation or the "solution" to each mystery.
The eventual appearance of Father Brown only signaled that the story would become a bit clearer, but often times the solution was just as puzzling as the "mystery." The character of Brown does not develop, which helps the stories to stand independently without completely capturing one's attention.
It was easy to put down, and hard to pick back up.
"For there did rest on the place one of those clouds of pride and madness and mysterious sorrow which lie more heavily on the noble houses of Scotland than on any other of the children of men.
For Scotland has a double dose of the poison called heredity; the sense of blood in the aristocrat, and the sense of doom in the Calvinist."G.
K. Chesterton wrote brilliantly, and for the last year I have dipped in and out of his Father Brown mysteries, short stories that dwell on the criminal pathologies of man.
This passage from "The Honour of Israel Gow" about a departed Scottish Earl really caught my eye.
The inimitable Father Brown is, of course, only one part of Chesterton's extraordinary literary output, but a distinctive one. Father Brown's retiring personality conceals a sharp (sometimes unbelievably sharp) intellect which allows him to deduce neat solutions from confusing facts in a way that the great Holmes himself would envy. But, no matter; it's all great fun, and a large part of the pleasure is the elaborate style of Mr. Chesterton as he unrolls the stories.More than detective stories, these are tales of human nature, of which Father Brown is a keen observer and commentator.
15 Stories from the Innocence of Father Brown (#1) or the Wisdom of Father Brown (#2)The Blue Cross (Innocence)The Secret Garden (Innocence)The Queer Feet (Innocence)The Flying Stars (Innocence)The Invisible Man (Innocence)The Honor of Israel Gow (Innocence)The Sins of Prince Saradine (Innocence)The Hammer of God (Innocence)The Three Tools of Death (Innocence)The Absence of Mr. Glass (Wisdom)Paradise of Thieves (Wisdom)The Man in the Passage (Wisdom)The Head of Cesar (Wisdom)The Purple Wig (Wisdom)The Strange Crime of John Boulnois (Wisdom)
Father Brown is a fascinating character, but the book didn't expound on him like I had thought. I picked this book since we have discovered the Father Brown tv series, and those episodes were great. Some of the episodes were based on the tales. I will admit that I enjoyed the tv series better than the written stories. I had a hard time getting into the groove of the tales...and like all collections, some stories were better than others.
