https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/732234.Cherry_Ames_Veterans_Nurse
Cherry is home from the war and working at a veterans’ hospital 30 miles from her home in Hilton, Illinois.She gets to spend time with her parents, who have engaged a new and amusing housekeeper.
She also finds the time to chase up the mystery of the stolen amino acids, and read stories to a small boy suffering from a mysterious wasting disease.Cherry’s a nice, level-headed person with a sense of humour.
There are a few interestingly quirky old-school details: smoking in hospitals, experimental amino acid medicines that can cure anything, and occupational therapy meant finding work people can do in bed.
Cherry Ames, Veterans' Nurse by Helen Wells in the sixth book in the Cherry Ames series.
This book was sweet -- mainly because I of Cherry's charges in the hospital.
I liked reading about them healing and building up their self-confidence.
The entire plotline about Toby and the medicine felt cliché and predictable to me.
You could see from a mile off who had stolen the medicine -- there weren't even any other suspects besides the two criminals!!
Overall, a very lazy mystery, but the rest of the book was enjoyable.
Just compared to other Cherry Ames books, I didn't like it quite as much.
This was a lovely Cherry Ames book. The mystery was inconsequential but her work in building up veterans not only physically but mentally and emotionally was terrific. The story had real importance. And Captain Cooper and puppy love is always a delight. Still love the ones with the whole gang of nursing girls the best but this was the best of the rest.
These are pure nostalgia for me and I love them.
The mystery angle was obvious, but that's okay.
I don't read these for the mystery.
(hide spoiler)] Some of the non-nursing scenes in the book (e.g., Midge's date, the scenes with Wade) seemed straight out of a 1930s or 1940s screwball comedy, and not a very original one at that.
I don't understand Cherry's decision near the end of the book to leave the Army (other than the fact that it is the nature of the series for her to job-hop).
It's just her and Mr. Ames most of the time!
In the unedited older versions of this book there are some interesting archaic details.
I'd completely forgotten about the "mystery" aspect of the story from when I'd read it back when I was a child.
My mom even pointed out that the fictional VA hospital where Cherry works is probably based in part on the very real Hines VA Hospital where a lot of new work in the field of occupational therapy was begun following WWII.
What did I remember from the first time I read this book?
When Cherry is thinking about the soldiers who have relatives nearby, in Evanston, Chicago, St. Joe.
I definitely didn't remember that detail from the first time I read the book!
Book #6 in the Cherry Ames series, this one is totally centered on Cherry caring for soldiers that have returned from WWII and who are wounded badly.
The description of what the wounded soldiers look like and how their war experiences have affected them is very well done.There is also a mystery here in that some very new medicine has been stolen from the hospital storage room.
Cherry undertakes to find out who the thief is and why that particular medicine is taken.
I have yet to read a Cherry Ames book which is disappointing.
My quest to read all the Cherry Ames books may be at an end, as the library can't locate any more, but I'm glad I made it this far. Cherry Ames Veterans Nurse  follows Cherry home after the war to a type of rehab VA. It's simple, misogynistic, yet sweet, with a little less plot than the other books. Kinda bummed I'm never find out what Cherry Ames Jungle Nurse was all about. That was sure to be a horrible trip back to segregation.
Enjoyed this one, particularly Cherry's relationship with Jim, her patient -- but I am admit I am sad to see Cherry leave the Army Nurse Corps! I enjoyed her WWII adventures.
Maybe it's been a while since I've read one of these, but whoa, was that "mystery" ever obvious. Thumbs up for the post-WWII perspective, though.
Another fun read
A good one but what I want to know is, does Cherry ever empty a bedpan?
Cherry is back in the States now, this time caring for wounded soldiers recovering from their war injuries.
I didn't care for this book as much as the previous ones as it didn't have all the main supporting characters I was used to.
Enjoyed these books as a kid and am enjoying them again as an adult. Like the adventures that Cherry has. Looking forward to rest of the series.
