https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23197837-the-belles
"Don't you want to be beautiful?" Woah. The Belles is a monster hidden behind a pretty facade of dresses, magic, and beautiful writing. The world and story slowly build through stunning descriptions, as the author peels back the layers of society's obsession with beauty, revealing all the ugliness that lies underneath. In the fictional world of Orléans, a small number of girls called Belles are able to use magic to create beautiful (or, indeed, ugly) looks to the paying customer's desire. Camel
The world and story slowly build through stunning descriptions, as the author peels back the layers of society's obsession with beauty, revealing all the ugliness that lies underneath.
In the fictional world of Orléans, a small number of girls called Belles are able to use magic to create beautiful (or, indeed, ugly) looks to the paying customer's desire.
The ugliness in this beautiful world creeps out slowly, though I still found the earlier chapters compelling.
In a horrific way.Questions gradually arise about the origin of the Belles and their magic.
Regarding the Belles, I did struggle to fully understand how their magic works in the beginning but it felt well developed by the end of the story and I am excited to see how their powers continue to expand in the following books.I really enjoyed the cast of characters.
Camille, Remy, and Edel are my favorites (I CANNOT wait to get to know Edel more in book two!) I would have loved more development on the other Belles as they are ushered out of the story early in the beginning and only appear in short notes to Camille, but I am very hopeful for some powerful girl-squad action in the future.
All I know is that I want to know what happens next.
The Belles is richly, gorgeously detailed in the accounting of the world of Orleans and the Belles, young women who are bred to create beauty amongst the citizenry.
In the last third of the book, everything starts falling into place exquisitely and we finally begin to realize what's at stake for Camellia, her sister Belles, and the people of Orleans.
I really look forward to the next book in this series.
Meanwhile, Dhonielle Clayton is a whipsmart writer with grand, grand talents and the imaginative world she has created is memorable and intriguing, indeed.
LOVE LOVE LOVE LOVE. Cannot wait for THE EVERLASTING ROSE.
Even with its minor flaws, I do think the Belles is a good book worth reading if you are interested in it.Thanks for reading my review!-Cesar*******************************************************(This statement was posted a LONG time ago when someone said aspects of the book was ableist and queerphobic.
This video is so spot on, considering the uprising of easily offended people leaving 1-star reviews.Let's get on with the "controversies."Part 1: The AlbinismThere have been comments on how the author isn't painting albinism in a good way.Albinism is a genetic disorder that leaves little or no pigment of color on a person and animal.
Among the lush descriptions of dresses and beautiful people, there is darkness lurking.
Quite evidently, it takes her time to realize the danger she and the other Belles are in, but when she does, she doesn’t stay quiet.
The Belles exist to give people exquisite features; to make them beautiful.
And ultimately, the rich overuse the Belles, which puts their health in a precarious spot.
Although Camellia doesn’t need anyone to share her spotlight, she is better when she is with her sisters, who do not make apparitions often, but they are rather present in the heroine’s thoughts.
until friends spoiled the ending for me in an attempt to keep me from being totally broken-hearted by the fact that in the year 2018, authors are still burying their queer women at these levels.I'm not going to try and talk anyone out of reading this book, and I'm not going to give it a star rating, because I have not finished it.
Please don't come at me with negative comments or try to dissuade me - after all, I'm not adding a star rating.
2.5 stars! This book was such an addictive, fast-paced read. But I did feel it fell apart towards the end, mostly because the "twists" felt very obvious. The characters also feel a tad flat at times, and some elements of the world building were weak. But overall, an enjoyable read if you want a page turner!TW: sexual assault, bury your gays trope ft. side characterI will be doing a full review on my channel.
I will eventually leave a legit review for this, but first I have to pick up the pieces of my shattered heart, which, in case you were wondering, was shattered by Dhonielle and this book. Also I desperately wish post-balloons were real. Read the book and you'll agree. Also Remy. I need Remy to be real, too. NEED SEQUEL YESTERDAY. Pre-order this one, you will be so grateful you did.

Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestI'm basically that one friend of yours who keeps threatening to delete their Facebook account but never does, only instead of "delete their Facebook account" replace that with "stop reading YA." After the utter disappointment that was CHILDREN OF BLOOD AND BONE, I decided that I was officially putting everyone's YA reviews on notice. I was tired of getting duped.And then I read THE BELLES.THE BELLES is not a perfect book. The first 100 page
If you can stick it out, you should, because after the first 100 pages, THE BELLES strips off its ballgown to reveal machine gun bazongas, like those women in the first Austin Powers movie, and says, "WHAT UP MOTHERFUCKERS." Shit gets real.The best way to describe this book is to imagine the Capitol from THE HUNGER GAMES.
Orleans is a fantasy kingdom that appears to be very loosely based off New Orleans, where magical girls called Belles use powers called "arcana" to make people beautiful (or ugly) - but at terrible cost.There have been a number of books coming out over the past couple years that have taken this frothy-fantasy-gone-wrong approach.
disclaimer: I'm gonna call out something in this book that really pissed me off and has the potential to be pretty harmful, so if you don't want to know anything about the plot don't open this review 🙃🙃🙃 ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------I've been anticipating this book since last summer.
So finding out that the sapphic lead character in this book gets killed off pretty much feels like a slap in the face.
It hurts to see the characters who represent you die unnecessary and tragic deaths in book after book, and queer readers don't deserve to be blindsided by that.another update: I've seen on twitter that there's also misgendering of a trans character, and the specific line is mentioned in this review.
I really don't think I've ever found another book like this.
Everything was described like some kind of delicious dessert (including the people), which just emphasized the feeling that beauty was something to be consumed.
She wants to be the court favorite, but soon finds there's a lot about her world that was hidden from her.
She has to decide what's worth sacrificing and what kind of future she wants...
I really liked Camille's character, too.
I really think fans of The Jewel and The Selection might love it, too!
3.75/5The writing was beautiful and I enjoyed our main character a ton. 🌺🌹I did feel like the plot was a little slow throughout the book but it really picked up towards the end of it. I enjoyed the aspect and the overall theme of the book and how it centers around beauty and what is beauty as well as how far people will go to be beautiful.🌸💐There were a few things I didn’t like which is why ultimately I gave this book a ⭐⭐⭐.75 but I still really enjoyed it.There is a trigger ⚠ for attempted sexu

The summary reveals way more (like the outcome of the competition, something that might appear of little importance at the start, etc).The whole setting is very interesting.
It is true that he didn’t show much interest in our heroine, but hey, when that did ever stop us from pairing characters.The end of the book was partially predictable, that doesn’t make it any less frustrating (in a good way, like I WANT THE SEQUEL NOW).
To be honest, it felt a bit boring at a time and I could do with fewer descriptions (yes this book about beauty I know but still), still, that didn’t last for long.

The princess decides that two Belles have to change Claudine's appearance, each three times, as a competition to find this gross fuck of a man's favourite look.
Instead, they get tortured to death for a cruel princess's power kick.What we end up with is yet another gay character being murdered (1) for cishet pain, (2) to show how cruel the villain is (and note that she's already been shown to be cruel many times over), (3) for the tragedy, and (4) FOR NO FUCKING REASON.I am so incredibly furious at this book.
*sigh* *shriek* *swoon* <-- phases my brain underwent whilst reading this incredible book. Longer review to come, but for now, this was the blurb I gave. I really adored it. It's a deliciously horrifying slow burn that will leave you reeling."Clayton dances between the fine lines of glittering, glamorous and gruesome. THE BELLES is a dazzling exploration of body power and identity, and a must-read for anyone looking for a lot more bite when it comes to beauty."
WHAT THE ACTUAL HELL WAS THAT? REVIEW TO COME ONCE THE SHOCK FROM THOSE LAST 100 PAGES WEARS OFF
In Camellia’s world, Orleans, people are born grey and without the beauty they seek and it’s up to Belles like Camellia to cater to the needs of the citizens.Camellia and her fellow Belle sisters have been competing to find which of them will become the favorite Belle and thus earning the right to serve the royals.
The book began extremely slowly and ended at a furious pace, not that I minded the pick up at the end but I would have liked more balance and interest in the beginning.
You know what the worst thing about reading a book that doesn't come out until February 2018?I have to wait at least 2 years for the 2nd book.The Belles is about a society in which a small class of girls control beauty The Belles.
I'm not sure if the world in this book is a future version of our world or a fantasy world but I loved it.
I don't want to give anything away since it doesn't even come out for 7 months.
I will say this though, I think The Belles is going to the book of 2018.
Who do I recommend this book to EVERYONE!
*DNF at 60%*This started off good enough, albeit extremely, painfully SLOW!
However, this book wasn't just slow.
She was stiff and uptight and had a horrendous superiority complex.
She was also just kinda mean to people.
Like the way she talked to some people.
*face palm* The mystery in this book was weak.
The idea of this book is original, as well as the cool teacup lions and bears, hence my giving it 2 stars.
I'm not trying to say that the author downright stole these ideas, but she definitely borrowed them.I fully expected this to be a 5 star read for me.
Someone online described this book as Marie Antoinette with magic and I would have to agree!
Lush, luxurious settings, great prose, a dynamic cast of diverse characters, and scary parallels to our real world.
This was the first book I ever got as a reader where picturing everybody in any scene allowed me to picture a diverse array of skin tones and body shapes and it was incredibly refreshing!
I can't wait for this book to blow up the world!!Also the fact that this 500 page book took a slow reader (me) 2 days to finish, should tell you something!
Hey guys! In honor of release day, I'm partnering with @disneybooks for The Belle's Blog Tour - and hosting a giveaway for a hardcover + beauty pouch!  Click here to enter! Good luck!!
Camellia is a Belle, blessed by the Goddess of beauty with the gift to change the appearance of the people of Orleans, who have been cursed to be born grey and without colour.
The pacing is slow, especially in the first half of the book as nothing really seems to happen other than meeting a large number of characters that seem to serve little purpose.
As with most of the inhabitants of Orleans she’s beautiful, but wants to be the most beautiful.
3.5*This is a very fun and fascinating read!
Every Belle wants to be the favorite Belle - the one to serve the Queen and royal family herself, and of course be revered as the most talented and beautiful Belle of all.
It soon becomes clear that what the Belles know of the world might not be completely true.The Belles are presented to the kingdom on their sixteenth Birthday when they will soon learn of their placements.
The favorite Belle must do what anyone in the royal family asks..including Sophia.We follow Camellia throughout her Belle journey, going where she is placed and meeting whoever she meets.
The Good: POC main character, interesting world, diabolical villain, beautiful descriptions I liked Camille, and her character growth through the bookThere were a fair few plot twists that were great too The Bad: The pacing wasn't the best in my opinion, as I said above.
i got bored at pointsI also think the world building could've been a bit more structured.
Like we did get a good overview of the world and how the Arcana works, but it didn't feel quite as structured as I would've liked it to be.
It'll depend on the description of the next book I suppose, but at the minute, I don't think it's likely.
This is pretty disappointing, because everyone seems to love it and that cover is just beautiful, but the book itself...
I'm guessing the story will deepen and there will be far more to it, but as I say, I did read 100 pages, and I generally think I can get a decent sense of whether I will like a book by then.
I wish I could write a rave review for this book and tell you that I really loved it, unfortunately it just wasn't for me.
This is exactly the kind of book I love when I'm looking for new YA releases, it's filled with innovation, great character moments, action and intensity, drama and emotion.
Once the favourite is decided they will be assigned their own tea houses where they will do their transformations.Camille is our main character, she's a Belle who longs to be the favourite, and yet she has an experimental streak to her and she loves to try new things.
I loved that this book pushes everything to the extreme and shows just how crazy/upset/devastated/emotional (etc.) some people can become when the overwhelming message they're receiving is that they are 'not good enough' as they are.
