https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1123549.The_Lonesome_Gods
If you have children that you want to grow up with a strong moral character and the best education they can possibly get, this book is a must read.
The main character Johannes had an intelligent father and he was driven to learn from classic literature all that he could and was on a quest to become a man of character through his life experiences and choices.
The main theme of this book seems to be, discovering what your mission and passion in life is through a great education and making wise choices.
I had an unfair prejudice against L'Amour based on tidbits of conversations I had overheard as a child that proved to be totally irrelevant to the writing of the this brilliant author.
I am grateful that this book was recommended reading in my scholarship group because it has given me a whole new world and author to fall in love with.
I spent the first half of the book highlighting most of what Johannes's father and Miss Nesselrod said.
What a brilliant commentary for life!
This book is romantic, high adventure, rich with Spanish, Mexican, Indian and Anglo Californian culture and alive with literature.
I read this book as it was part of the follow-on "assignments" included as part of the epilogue in "A Thomas Jefferson Education." I never would have selected it on my own.
It was exceptional, and the ties to "A Thomas Jefferson..." were apparent.
An entertaining read, full of wonderful "gems" of wisdom.The protagonist is well developed, perhaps over developed.
The evil that pursues him is absolutely abomiable but also quite reflective of contemporary selfishness and materialism.
I would have loved to see the relationship between the protagonist and his true love develop more, but that is perhaps another book and more likely, another author.
I read The Lonesome Gods because it was recommended in A Thomas Jefferson Education as one of five books to start one’s classic library.
Young Verne crosses the dangerous western desert with his dying father and others in a wagon headed to California, where he will be put in the care of his grandfather.
He is self-educated, pouring over the small library of classic books his father left him.
I expected to be changed by the book, to learn about myself as I learned about the characters, to identify with someone, to want to become something more.
This is a long book for L'Amour. He spends some time getting philosophical - a boy on his own living in the desert, communing with nature, learning & such. There's a good look at early Los Angeles - well, it sounded good to me. I can't vouch for actual historical accuracy, though. It was interesting, not just a shoot 'em up.
Take a jaunt through mid-19th-century Southern California with Louis L'Amour.
The story follows orphan Johannes Verne from age seven through early manhood.
But he is Johannes Verne, and he is not afraid.
One of the nicest features of L'Amour's books is that his characters spout a lot of wisdom when they get down to philosophizin'.This book was comfort reading for me.
It took me back to my teen years, when I used to stay up way too late on school nights devouring L'Amour's paperback westerns like popcorn.
She is a Louis L'Amour *phreak*, and she says it's his very best.
For a long time I thought HONDO was the best novel I ever read by L'Amour. I'm not ready to revise that opinion, but THE LONESOME GODS comes as close as any other to push HONDO. It's an excellent, epic story. Lots of action, real emotion, and a strong sense of the birth of Los Angeles.
All of L'Amour's works are at my fingertips since this is one of the few authors that my father reads ...
That doesn't seem like a beginning that would appeal to my dad, except that this child has an adult perspective on the world.
And he happens to be the main character.Predictable elements of L'Amour's stories:- There are good guys and bad guys.- The good guys love the land ...
And, of course, books are important, and are woven firmly into the fabric of this story.These are some examples of L'Amour's beliefs and philosophy about life.p 163: "The one thing we know, Hannes, is that nothing remains the same.
Reread 10/2016: still love these books!! These words are magic for any brokenness I have. ❤Ahhh! I love Louis L'Amour books. I'm glad I had to reread this one again for a book club. It is one of my favorites.There are many reasons that I enjoy his books. In this book I was drawn into the main characters and I feel their feelings. I feel that they are developed. I understand them...I also love that the main character is always very well read. In every L'Amour books there's a list of at least 10 g
Reread 10/2016: still love these books!!
In this book I was drawn into the main characters and I feel their feelings.
I understand them...I also love that the main character is always very well read.
In every L'Amour books there's a list of at least 10 great classics (ancienct classics) that the hero has read.
You can't read a book of his and not feel the need to read great things and improve your mind and become better yourself.His main character is always a man.
The only thing I don't like about his books is that they all end very abrubptly.
This was my first Louis L'Amour and I loved it! Especially fun for me was that it was set in L.A. and Palm Springs. I will definitely be reading more of Mr. L'Amour's books in the future. Thanks to my friend, Casey Nicollelo, for strongly recommending that I check out Louis L'Amour!
The characters are shallow and lack the distinctive attributes that make humans come to life through words.
It may be that L’Amour’s main reason for writing this book was to name-drop all the people and places that eventually resulted in forming modern-day Southern California.
Towards the end of the book, however, the travels of the main character become impossible with respect to the places mentioned and the distances between them.And therein lies the disappointment.
I was hoping for the pre-developed California environment to take its place among the characters.
I was hoping for characters with distinct personalities.
In short, I was hoping for something more than just an entertaining story.
This book has a story which is really intriguing, but it feels as though the author had a specific person in mind when he began this book, someone he was trying to encourage to get an education or at least figure out what they were going to do with their life.
Those instances finally ended 1/2 way through the book, but it was hard to follow the passage of time at that point.
I never could figure out how old Johannes was at any one time.
Listen to this:"Long since, I had learned that one needs moments of quiet, moments of stillness, for both the inner and outer man, a moment of contemplation or even simple emptiness when the stress could ease away and a calmness enter the tissues.
Such moments of quiet gave one strength, gave one coolness of mind with which to approach the world and its problems.
Sometimes but a few minutes were needed."Or this: "It is all very well to say that man is only a casual whim in a mindless universe, that he, too, will pass.
This is close enough to five stars for me to rate it that way. I think I liked Bendigo Shafter more, but the "epic journey through the desert" bit was compelling. I love how L'Amour seamlessly combines disparate elements into his books: the ones I've read don't seem like "just" westerns. He does his research, too, as far as I can tell. This one includes bits about the Tarahumara runners and gigantism, among other things.
This book is probably one of the best examples of what a novel, or any American literature, should be. The plot is continuously developed throughout the novel, the characters are not only well developed and easy to relate to, but there is also an excellent mix of good and bad, that exhibit all of the traits that you should want to embody or avoid. Aside from the well researched historical aspects of the novel, there are also many important lessons and advice throughout the dialogue.
My first L'amour book but definitely not my last! I really had trouble putting this book down! Great story, great life lessons, great characters!
Having spent five years in LA, I couldn't get enough of Louis L'Amour's ability to bring the (then small) town, the mountains and, most vividly, the desert to life.Familiar names and landmarks like Palm Springs, the San Jacinto Mountains, Morongo Valley and, yes, the Mojave Desert take on a whole new meaning through the lens of the mid-1800s.
The expanse, the heat, the sand, the shade, the Joshua trees, the treasure that is found water--all woven together to form a beautiful yet treacherous picture of the Alta California desert lands.The Lonesome Gods is a lengthy book.
This is the second Louis L'amour book that I have read, and I loved it.
This book is what all young men should read, and absorb.
It has a great moral guideline that everyone should strive to follow.
He finds himself in the desert surrounded by Indians and "The lonesome Gods" they pray too.
Despite all of these dangers surrounding him, its where he feels the most at home.
This book is great for anyone who is looking to lose themselves in a book and just wants to enjoy the ride.
This was my first l'Amour. Some of his dialogue was stilted, and some character development was lacking, but overall I really loved it.He knew everything (it seems). I loved the descriptions of the desert and early Los Angeles. We discussed this yesterday with a group of scholars that we mentor, and it was a fantastic discussion. There is so much of value to be gleaned here. I will definitely read more of his work.
My first novel by Louis L'Amour. The web was well woven and I especially enjoyed all the literary references.
The length of the novel also allowed the author to span a great deal of years, so that the reader witnesses young Johannes growing from a child to a man, with the aid of loyal friends and some harrowing experiences.Looking at the book from a technical perspective, there are some passages that are a touch unpolished, and the author has a slight tendency to repeat himself during certain scenes.
Louis L’Amour was a true entertainer of the highest degree.The Lonesome Gods is such a beautiful melding of history, culture, and adventure, that it should be recommended reading in American public schools.
(Offset by the wonderful and mysterious Miss Nesselrode.) Johannes learns a lot of skills off-screen, and it's not that it isn't /believable/ but I sometimes felt a little cheated in not getting to go along with him.But then there are moments like this:[We] sometimes forget there are other ways, sometimes forget the Lonesome Gods of the far places, the gods who live on the empty sea, who dance with the dust devils and who wait quietly in the shadows under the cliffs where ancient men have marked their passing with hands.Once my father had told me of finding a cliff dwelling built high on the rocks, the bricks plastered with mortar from clay, and in the clay were the marks of fingers.Who left those prints in the clay?
We know a little and scoff at much we do not understand, but the Indians are either a simpler people or one far more complex who merely seem simple." "The one thing we know, Hannes, is that nothing remains the same.
Things are forever changing, and one must understand the changes and change with them, or be lost by the way." To succeed as a human being is not always the same as succeeding in your life's work, although they can go hand in hand."Some people only learn by reading, others by doing or seeing, some by hearing.
I feel that every odd fact, interesting historical people (like poe or one other poet person along with others) are just thrown in.
"well, educated by dad, read lots" but he was on his own at age six.
As the story continues, just tons of facts and detailed memories are just spewed into the book and I just thought, "oh please".But that aside, I liked how all the major characters tie together.
The dad Zack Verne is coming back to California where is grandpa (father-in-law) wants them dead (blight on family name) So father is killed, johannes is left in the desert to die.
I have never been a big western fan, so I kind of had low expectations when I started this book.
Do space westerns count?Anyway, I was pleasantly surprised as I read this book.
The story was interesting, with lots of setbacks, and challenges for the kind and intelligent main character to overcome.
I also loved the examples of intelligent, strong women in this book.
It was a lot of fun to read.It was a story of strong morals, emphasizing perseverance, self defense, self education, and a karma like cycle of compassion and serving others yielding life sustaining help, and hatred leading to loneliness and retribution.
I rarely give one star, unless I can’t even finish a book.
I finished this, but only because it was a book club pick and I bought the book, so I was determined to push through.
As it started I was so frustrated because the dialogue was almost unnaturally deep-thinking and poetic and the prose was completely flat and lifeless.
All of the characters and relationships were completely underdeveloped.
About midway through when they were out rounding up horses I kept having to stop and asking myself who was talking, because none of the characters took on a distinct personality.
Not a devoted reader of L'Amour yet, like many of the reviewers.
In this book there are glimpses of why so many people love him.
But the faults are there too, and at times, they overload the good stuff.
How many times do we have to read what a good man Johannes Verne's father was?
The romance is not developed very well; we don't know why the main character loves his girl besides her beautiful red hair.
The four-star review is really for the portrayal of the desert and the shootout scenes.

I have to admit that I have read quite a few Louis L'amour books.
Anyway, I have read some more serious ones (of which this book is one) and some of the more fun ones (like his short story collections) and I've gotta' say I prefer the fun ones.
If I want deep thoughts I don't want them from Mr. L'amour.
To me this particular book read like a rough draft.
It finally did in the last 2 chapters and then ended with a suddenness that made me wonder if someone had ripped out a final chapter or two of this library book.
Quintessential "guy-lit" (or whatever is the opposite of "chick-lit").
I enjoyed the storytelling aspect and the way the author brings the desert to life in his writing.
It's a rather romanticized paean to the Old West.Spoiler Alert:I positively loathed the character, Meghan, the love interest.
She was completely one-dimensional and had no redeeming qualities that would lead one to believe that the hero would find her anything but annoying and obtuse.
So the message apparently is that to land a "real man" you need striking "red-gold" hair and to be a willful pain in the neck that causes trouble for everyone.
Nice...
