https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/478846.The_Fall_of_Atlantis
The Fall of Atlantis by Marion Zimmer Bradley is the story of two sisters who grow up in the temple of light in the Ancient Land and tells about the difficult decisions and struggles they face and how their relationship is strained as they go down different paths.
Another thing that people might not know is that this book is actually a part of Marion Zimmer Bradley's Avalon series.
Originally it was only connected to the series by one minor detail that most would overlook, but then the book Ancestors of Avalon was published which is a direct sequel to The Fall of Atlantis.
This was my first book to read of Marion Zimmer Bradleys and look forward to reading "The Mist of Avalon." There are too many details to describe what happens in this book but I will leave you with this quote from page 335 that the story leads to in the end: "Domaris," said Demira, slowly, and smiled-that wise and sad smile which always saddened Deoris; it seemed such an old smile for the childlike face.
"One of us three will die, and her child with her.
The second will walk beside Death, but it will take only her child.
Things weren't properly explained, especially not the society in which the story takes place, and I barely really understood what happened.However, the further in I got, the better I liked the book.
I began to grow fond of the sisters (Deoris in particular; Domaris never really impressed me until much later in the story) and eventually could not stop reading.
I also began to see how things added up with the society and religion many years later in "Mists", what parts had been carried on.
I am now looking very much forward to reading "Ancestors of Avalon".All in all, a great book once you get past the confusing beginning.
What a dramatic start to this fantasy series! I haven't read something like this for quite some time and it was a great book to get yourself caught up in. When there is magic and mysterious strangers, along with dark deeds there is a story that can take you away from your immediate surroundings. Well paced plotlines and characters that stand out. I am looking forward to reading more!
Molto bello il finale. :)
Um fascínio inegável!Aqui encontrei mais uma leitura envolvente, fluída, que devorei intensamente na recta final, não deixando contudo, de saborear cada instante de desenrolar inteligente e rico do enredo, que nas mãos desta senhora, se torna a maravilha habitual.
As personagens sempre abundantes e atraentes, de foco no feminino (o que sempre achei curioso porque sinto a MZB como uma mulher de energia bastante masculina), numa eterna luta entre o Bem e o Mal, que aqui larga a banalidade que outros autores adoram rebuscar, para se revelar elegante, nessa aura de ancestralidade e fantasia mágica.
"Fall of Atlantis" wasn't bad, at least as far as I came, and sure had some nice moments of atmosphere. Mainly however, there was just nothing about it to make me pick it up again. Nothing happened, not even interesting dialogue, nothing, which was why I ended up not finishing it. Because it wasn't that bad until then, apart from before mentioned problem, three stars, not two, but really not much else.
*Actual rating: 3.5 stars*This was a rather strange reading experience--I'm not sure I actually liked this book, but I found it too compelling to put down.
At the time, I only wanted to read about strong, kick ass heroines (and they were much harder to find back in the day), and the two sisters in this story just let events wash over them.
But even though I disliked the novel (actually two books that were later combined), I never forgot it.
The story's not about taking charge and kicking ass; it's about being a pawn of destiny.
I'm not sure a book that frequently put me to sleep rates two stars, but I did want to try to understand where the story was going versus putting it the DNF pile and Bradley had two strong women characters in the book, so the extra star.
The story was confusing at times and I wasn't sure where it was headed.
Even though two of the main characters were strong women, it was disappointing when they veered dramatically from their potential due to their relationship with the men they loved.
Il succo era più o meno che non è necessario che tutto venga spiegato, ma che una spiegazione deve comunque esistere nella mente dell'autore: nell'universo di Guerre Stellari per esempio il suono si propaga nel vuoto, e anche se il motivo non viene menzionato nella saga, esiste comunque un motivo preciso e il regista deve esserne consapevole.Lo stesso accade in questo splendido libro.Voto: 9+/10
I was slightly disappointed in this novel, as I have been spoiled by Bradley's other novels related to the Mists of Avalon. I think this may have been written before Mists, though. As with all of her fantasies, this novel is written from the perspective of strong female characters and has a lot of similar elements to the Mists novels. I cannot recommend it as strongly, however, and i would not recommend it as a first foray into Bradley's works. If you already love Bradley, though, give it a try.
I loved it! The characters, the places, everything! Domaris and Deoris relationship, even though it reallu bugged me at first, in the end it was beautiful. The love between Domaris and Micon aswell! The life in the temple is another thing I felt in love with. Even those (what we would call weird) habits and traditions just amazed me. Marion Zimmer Bradley as become, without a doubt, one of my favourite authors and I can't wait to read the next books in this Series.I totally recommend it to anyone who loved Mists of Avalon.
I was very excited to read this one, finally, to understand where it had all began. And I must say it was a fascinating story with characters I could really relate to, the bitter-sweet story of the sisters Domaris and Deoris, the unbreakable bounds formed between lovers and kins. The ending, as well as some chapters too, even brought tears into my eyes at some parts. This book is different to the following Avalon books for sure, but it's well written and a fantastic tale.
While I love Marion Zimmer Bradley, I didn't feel this was her strongest work. The writing is not up to the same par as some of her other books. I felt lost occasionally while reading this. Bradley writes as though the reader is already well versed in the laws and rituals of her characters, and this time the disconnect was too great to be comfortable.
This book is NOTHING like Mists of Avalon. It's an okay story, but Atlantis never actually falls in this book. At the end they talk about how it could happen in 10 years. It's weird. It's an okay story if you like her stuff, but if not don't bother.
Ich habe vor weit über zehn Jahren das erste Mal ein Buch aus der Avalon-Reihe in den Händen gehalten und sie seitdem immer wieder einmal gelesen, meist als Leihgabe der Stadtbücherei und nie in der Reihenfolge, in der die Ereignisse eigentlich stattfinden.
Das Priesterleben erscheint fremd und ausführlich, doch alles andere ist dem Leser ebenso fremd wie den Priestertöchtern, die sich ihr ganzes Leben lang kaum aus dem Tempel herausbewegen.Ebenso gibt es einige Stellen, die ich nicht einordnen kann - ob MZB sie absichtlich kontrovers eingebaut hat, oder ob es zum Erscheinungstermin oder in ihrem Weltbild eben so war.
Howard's Conan the Barbarian stories and decided to write her own tale of the Hyborian Age, I think The Fall of Atlantis is very much what she'd come up with.The culture of the Grand Temple is an intriguing one with some really cool aspects, and the characters are fleshed out and fully realised (though weirdly, every female character is vindictive, stubborn well beyond the point of foolishness and, ultimately, unlikable), but the first half of the book is hampered by Bradley's habit of throwing in a new byzantine wrinkle to their society every twenty or thirty pages: everyone has a secret true name they share with no one else!
I honestly don't know if this is praise or criticism, but its the only way I can think to describe what its like to get lost in her world.
She's not good, she's not bad - I didn't like it, I didn't dislike it - I was only in awe of her.
Standing in awe of her work seems to be the only thing a person can do.I think I know one reason why this book was so strange to me.
I think the readers need that time to heal alongside the characters, because they'd been through so much tremendous heartbreak.Reading this book was a strange experience.
Their mother died when Deoris was born, and Demoris was like a mother to her younger sister.Domaris becomes a Priestess of Light, whereas Deoris gets mixed up with Riveda, a Grey Robe Priest and dabbles in black magic, which becomes both Domaris and Deoris' downfall.A very good storyline - I'd like to have seen some familiarities between this book and the Avalon series, but sadly found nothing remarkably obvious....
However, the storyline was good enough for me to give it a five star rating, and I believe the book was written before the Avalon series was even written!Marion Zimmer Bradley certainly had a unique imagination - I love her books and the way she wrote with so much description.
This book is very different in tone from Mists of Avalon (which I read several times about 15 years ago), even though they were published the same year.
The mystical tone, constantly keeping secrets from the reader, was very annoying the whole book through.
The second half of the omnibus, Web of Darkness, was....
well, dark, as the name states.
Very dark.
I’ve read many horror novels, dark fantasy, serial killer, etc.
Many authors have written of those seduced by violence, darkness, and evil.
But never while reading a story have I been left feeling so very aware of the author’s own personal history embracing the same evil.
2.5 StarsWell-written but I felt like there was a lot of information missing that would have helped me understand certain things. There was very little set up to the story; however I did appreciate some of the characters' development, although the "love story" was akin to a bad fanfiction. Overall, concept was great and the plot itself interesting, I just wish there was more development and setup. But then, it was originally written as a short story in a magazine, so I suppose I shouldn't have expected as much as I did.
For the life of me, I cannot decide if I like this book or not. I go back and forth between a 2 and 3 star rating. I get irritated by the characters every time I read it, but I also keep thinking I'm missing something so I read it again to see if I can take anything new away. It constantly feels like there should be more to this story. Ugh, I don't know. One of the few books I just can't make my mind up about.
I gave it more stars because I was interested in the description of Atlantis. I was interested in the infrastructure and the intellect of its residence. If it was a book regarding any other story I wild have considered it quite weak - but as Atlantis itself is up for debates, it was interesting to read a view of how things might have been. The strongest point of the book is its ending - which ties in very well with the rest of the story.
Adorei as personagens, não fiquei fã do enredo. Demasiada ficção para parecer real, demasiado real para ser pura fantasia. As personagens, embora sejam apelativas, parecem demasiado caricaturais, demasiado quadradas. Não é o meu género de romance.
An imagery of faith and face of the light crownedMists of Avalon is one of my favorite series. Here is were it all began, in Atlantis, with two sisters who bind each other together in the service of the Goddess.
If you want to read a romance novel, purporting to be a fantasy-pseudo-historical novel, then this is the book for you.If you like your novel with uninteresting characters, again this is the book for you.Finally, if you dislike plots or any original concepts, read this.I shouldn't have.
Amo la Bradley quando non indulge troppo nel mortificare le sue eroine con ogni tipo di soppruso fisico e morale... qui indulge, purtroppo, e la narrazione, nel complesso, tocca quelle vette di noia che talvolta la Marion riesce a percorrere.
Je me suis un peu ennuyée avec cette intrigue. J'espère que le tome suivant sera meilleur parce que je pense qu'il s'agissait la d'un prologue et non de la véritable histoire. Dommage ça avait l'air prometteur.
I give this book 3.5 stars. It wasn't my favorite of the Avalon saga collection mainly because I thought it was somewhat confusing. It is not clear in the beginning what the powers are, who is Micon and Atlantis. However, the book has interesting parts and it is an easy read when you get into it.
A slow pacing book with lots of drama instead of religious or spiritual themes, though they are slipping through the lines a little, which made this book still worth the read. Kind of a dread in the beginning but it gets better at the end. Bittersweet, like all her books.
