https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5322.The_Christmas_Story
Disclaimer: I usually review children's book based more on what my children think of the book and less on what I think of the book...My children really like this book!
A wonderful book that allows the beginning reader to be able to get to learn the Nativity without having to try to translate the older tongue of the King James Bible.
So if you don't mind setting down the Bible for younger crowds another book you can add to a Christmas traditional reading so the youngest may follow even if they are just pointing at the pictures.
Follow-up with the Bible version once the little ones are in bed and everyone can definitely participate in the retelling of the "Wonderful Story".
I suddenly feel like building a spitfire and having an old-fashioned cookout. Better make sure I have plenty of mint jelly.
My husband and I read this to my 4-month-old son Alaric on his first Christmas morning. It was a simple yet beautiful retelling of the Christmas story for young children. I'll admit that I did giggle when Mary "brought forth her son". If only labor were that easy!
The illustrator of this Golden Book is Eloise Wilkin. Some people, like me, will be sold on that alone. This is a simple version of the story, including Gabriel's visit, the travel to the inn, angels and shepherd, Herod and the Three Wise Men. We read this every year.
Good straight forward telling of the Christmas story!
Awesome book for young ones, my kids ages 2 and 5 want this book read over and over throughout the whole year.. do your kids a favor and get your children this book :)
Absolutely beautiful illustrations of the Blessed Virgin!
I loved this book. I wore it out from use. I had to buy another copy when I was a grown-up.
My great-grandma gave me this book. So far, I just like to carry it around and I'm not real interested in letting anyone read it to me. (I'm 13 months old)
Ahh, this is a sweet book illustrated by the talented Eloise Wilkin.
Mine's a different edition though.
A beautiful little golden book telling of The Christmas Story of Jesus' birth.
I liked how this book made the Christmas Story so simple. It is perfect for small children because the language they use is so easy to understand.
What Christmas is all about.
I knew this beginning nativity book would still be a bit much for my newly 2 year old but this was great to use for looking at and sometimes reading it sometimes just telling our one 1 sentence description for each part. I look forward to revisiting this one every year.
LovelyLovely book. With great illustrations and well composed story. My kids enjoyed it immensely. We read it before setting up our nativity scene for advent.
I owned this book as a child, and found it again at a Saver's recently. I bought it for my son...but mostly for me and my nostalgia. :)
Beautiful illustrations, but so many difficult words and phrasing, may as well read an adult'a bible to the children.
Beautiful illustrations. The text is really close to the NKJV of the Bible in Luke (and Matthew for the wise men). Loved this one as a child, and it is great to read it to my own children.
Copyright 1952. My copy is from 1971. This is a Little Golden Book. I adore this gentle telling of Christ's birth. Beautifully illustrated by Eloise Wilkin.
wouldn't be able to read in a public school settingtells the story of Baby Jesus and Christmas
Jane Werner, The Christmas Story (Golden Press, 1952)I was certainly the wrong person to read this one to the Bean—it's a hand-me-down from my wife's family—given how antipathetic I am to religion, but then I was relieved when the book simply would have failed to live up to even my barest expectations of pre-lit even if I were a foaming-at-the-mouth young-earth creationist.
The obvious flaw in the book, which is listed on the title page as being “told by” Jane Werner, is that she starts off trying to put the story into her own words (i.e., to make it simpler for the pre-lit set), but she abandons that concept roughly a quarter of the way through and simply starts quoting.
The edition I had (from way back in the last century) had a totally different cover.
The cover image had Mary holding the little baby Jesus.
Mary was a very pale woman wearing a red dress with long sleeves and draped in a blue cape trimmed in gold.
She's got the hood of the cape up, covering her hair.
I'm looking at an image on another website as we speak.)This was not a very popular Christmas book.
Sure, I was raised Catholic, but I preferred Santa Claus and Frosty to Jesus.
This Little Golden Book, first released in 1952, features a traditional re-telling of the Christmas story accompanied by beautiful classic illustrations. If you are looking for a straightforward biblical narration of the events surrounding Jesus’s birth then this is definitely one to consider. My daughter loves it, but it is possibly more suited to a slightly older age bracket as there is a lot of detail – more than seems suitable for my three year old anyway.  “For a child is born this day in B

I wanted a really straightforward version of the nativity story from the Bible, and this one was perfect. It was first published in 1952, and the illustration style certainly reflects that. We read it yearly as part of our "12 books of Christmas" tradition, one per night from Dec 13th to the 24th.
My kids love the bright illustrations in this book, and the story is well paced and clear, while still maintaining that King James style that is so culturally familiar to me.
A great christmas story good for grade 4.
A more detail-oriented children's book, for older children, perhaps elementary aged? Nothing elaborate but makes the story clear yet not overly simplified.
Excellent book for all children to read and also adultsI could read this book to anyone This a great story and also good drawingsChildren will enjoy it as well as adults
