https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16130549-doctor-sleep
(Disclosure: I used to work at Stephen King's publisher and read Doctor Sleep in December 2012.) Get ready.
If I can make just one recommendation: whether you're a longtime King fan or fairly new to his stuff, it wouldn't be the worst thing to read The Shining before you get your hands on Doctor Sleep.
You could read and love Doctor Sleep without doing so, but I think people's experiences of this sequel will only be enriched by first checking out one of the mothers of all horror novels.
So, as long as you’re sure…At the end of The Shining, three people survive the carnage, Danny Torrance, a five year old with a special gift, Wendy Torrance, Danny’s mother and newly widowed wife of the late Jack Torrance, and Dick Halloran, an employee of The Overlook and possessor of a gift like Danny’s, one that allowed him to hear Danny’s psychic 911 call and return from his home in Florida in time to do something about it.
King gives the members Damon Runyon-esque names, like Crow Daddy, Steamboat Steve and Tommy the Truck.By the time you finish reading Doctor Sleep you might have a new image of the top hat to consider next time you are planning a formal night out.
A sequel, huh? I didn't feel much for Danny when I was going through The Shining since Jack Torrance pretty much had me by the balls, but I guess - this being a Stephen King book - I can give it a try.Oh, who am I kidding?
If so, you’re in luck because Stephen King has now told us what happened to Danny Torrance, and he’s just as screwed up from his experience as you’d expect him to be.Like his father, Dan has grown up to be a bad tempered drunk, and he uses the booze to blot out his psychic powers as he drifts from town to town working menial jobs.
Dan becomes aware of a little girl named Abra with a shining ability that dwarfs his own, but unfortunately Abra has also come to the attention of group of vampire like creatures calling themselves the True Knot.
Dan: Hi, I was a total scumbag, meaning I once swiped a few bucks, a horrible horrible thing for which I'll never forgive myself, and, oh yeah, almost forgot, I used to get in bar fights all the time and I for all I know, I killed people during a blackout.
I'm also all heroic, like, totally!
I also have no imagination at all, just like Dan.Both: Together, we fight crime!Rose: Hi, I'm Rose, I'm super scary!
I mean, convenient for the heroes, not for me.
Seriously, how the hell did we survive in medieval Europe, when getting around was a serious ordeal?
His road to recovery was well done and I loved how the connection to Abra Stone unfolded.
Maybe Joyland started life as a fragment of Doctor Sleep that got cut out like a bad appendix.
Also, I have a feeling Stephen King read a book about carnies and felt the need to work as much lingo into his work as possible.Another thing I loved was the True Knot.
I don't remember another Stephen King book where so many of the good guys survived the final encounter.Still, it was a fun read and there were some tense moments.
I am sorry for ever doubting you Stephen.A tribe of people called The True Knot travel around the United States- by RV- in search of children with "The Shining".
These children have what The True Knot feeds off, something they call "steam".
Abra needs his help.Call me crazy, but I think I liked DOCTOR SLEEP more than I liked The Shining.
I could be terribly wrong because I haven't read The Shining in years, but I certainly loved grown up Danny waaaaaaay more than I liked Jack, and I loved Abra more than I liked Danny as a child.
I reread The Shining for the first time in years, just to reacquaint myself with the world of Danny Torrance and the Overlook Hotel.
King is a master of characterization, and that shows with many of the characters in this book.
You feel real sympathy for Dan Torrance, and connect with several of the other characters as well.
So the effect of it is, that as a horror book it’s not all that effective, but as a layered story with interesting characters possessing psychic powers, it succeeds in all kinds of ways.
That cover is the epitome of perfection.So perfect that is should be on my shelves.Like, right now. I'm waiting. *stares at bookshelves* EDIT: I'M GETTING AN ARC OF THIS MY LIFE IS OFFICIALLY MADE
She liked to read, but was at a crossroads between being too old for childish books, and a bit too young for cheesy romance novels with Fabio on the cover.
She sat down and started to read a book called Carrie, by an author named Stephen King.
If someone who had never read Stephen King, asked me if this should be their first book, I would say no.
For those of us who have read The Shining, what a joy it was to see some characters we loved from that book.
Once upon a time, long ago, I sat down to read a book called Carrie, by an author named Stephen King.
Of course there are references, and reading the first book before this one will help you understand the content much better, but it's clear that this book wasn't just written for the sole purpose of making more money and drawing out a story to an unnecessary length (like I have seen done before)- I would love to read more sequels of this kind!Like in The Shining, you will find several points of view.
This really helps painting a clear picture of everyone, and I was able to understand Dan Torrance better than I might would have without this leadup.It was really great to get a more diverse and evolved look at what the gift of "The Shining" is and what it all entails.
And while I would agree that he, like Joan Jett and Ann Wilson, could put on a great show without trying very hard, I think he did put some extra effort into Doctor Sleep, his 2013 sequel to his 1980 masterpiece The Shining.While this takes off from where The Shining left off and then goes on to tell its own story, this is in many ways an amalgam of many of his best stories and returns to many of the themes that have made him one of our most successful writers.
It’s not the joke though, it’s the funny friend who does it.Think of a story that scared you once, being told in a creepy setting.
He settles down as Doctor Sleep.Meet Abra, a little girl with shining, just like Danny, only much, much stronger.
Around half-way through the book, the story starts to drag a little.
Then what makes it worth a read?Stephen King does.It’s his capability to write in such small details in a certain way that will make you feel like the characters are alive and with you in this very room.
In a way, I'm a little disappointed in myself, because I am adamantly against GR's new policy in principle, and extremely disappointed and upset with GR about it, but I know that in the end, whether I review here or not makes no difference because I'd still BE here, generating site traffic, because of my friends and the community I still want to be a part of.
Right...?So, coming back to Doctor Sleep, I've always felt that Stephen King looked at Danny as his fictional son.
In a way, Doctor Sleep was quite a bit like Black House, and I imagine that people will compare them.
MY BLOG: Melissa Martin's Reading ListTHIS BOOK IS FREAKING AWESOME!I love this is a sequel to The Shining and in the beginning of the book it goes into some things from when Danny was young.
What I found in reading the book is that not only did Dan inherit the alcoholism from his father, he started drinking to stop the shining and the bad things it put in his head.
Billy doesn't have the shining as strong as Dan but it's still there.
Meanwhile, down the way little Abra Stone is born and she is born with a powerful shining.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/4.5 StarsHave you ever caught yourself, maybe while reading a Stephen King book or maybe just at some random moment, wondering whatever happened to little Danny Torrance?  Lucky for all of us Stephen King did too. Doctor Sleep picks up where The Shining left off. It briefly covers the aftermath of the experiences at the Overlook Hotel before fast-forwarding in increments of presidential terms through Dan’s life.If you have been a reade
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/4.5 StarsHave you ever caught yourself, maybe while reading a Stephen King book or maybe just at some random moment, wondering whatever happened to little Danny Torrance?
It briefly covers the aftermath of the experiences at the Overlook Hotel before fast-forwarding in increments of presidential terms through Dan’s life.If you have been a reader of Stephen King for 25 years like I have, you’ll notice that his style has changed significantly.
(My poor family was 100% neglected for 28 hours.) Most importantly, if you have been invested in Danny’s life since waaaaaaay back in the 70s and want to see what became of him, Doctor Sleep will not disappoint.
In this the sequel to 'The Shining', Danny Torrance - who had psychic visions as a child -is a very troubled adult.*****As the story opens Dan Torrance (Danny Torrance from "The Shining") has grown up to be a violent, itinerant alcoholic who suffers from blackouts.
This leads to the thriller part of the story, with the True Knot scheming to kidnap Abra, and Dan and his cohorts scheming to save her.The book is chock full of fascinating characters (good and evil) and gruesome events - in true Stephen King style.
This is the story of what happened to this little boy:Danny Torrance is all grown up and an alcoholic just like his dad.
Dan finally decides to join Alcoholics Anonymous and is in recovery, working at a hospice when he telepathically meets a girl named Abra Stone.She's got the Shining too and is incredibly powerful.
One, in particular named Rose wants Abra BAD.
Dan decides to help her and battle the True Knot.Holy Shizz, this was awesome!
I listened to the audio version, narrated by Will Patton.
He is one of my favorite narrators and he rocked this performance!
(that's not the first Neil Gaiman comparison I'm going to make in this review, so prepare yourselves)Doctor Sleep seeks to answer two questions: first, what happens to Danny Torrance after he and his mother escape the demonic Overlook Hotel - what kind of adult does Danny become, and how much of his father has survived in him?
Who are the others who possess gifts like Danny's, and (a central question in King's books) who should they be afraid of?The adult version of Danny, called Dan, is, frankly, a mess.
Enjoyed it even more the second time through. Firmly believe this is the best duology ever written. I doff my hat to Sai King- he is a master. Full review to come...stay tuned!
Imagine Shirley Jackson writing a sequel to THE HAUNTING OF HILL HOUSE without the house, or Richard Matheson’s HELL HOUSE sequel sans the Belasco mansion?That’s one of the many, many, many things that are wrong with Stephen King’s sequel to THE SHINING---the Overlook hotel never makes an appearance since it was destroyed by fire (in the book, not the movie.) The whole premise of THE SHINING was a haunted hotel and a boy with a special gift.What we have in DOCTOR SLEEP (really dull title, BTW) is the further adventures of Danny Torrance.
I soon settled in and listened as he told me the story of Doctor Sleep.Having read The Shining for the first time just last year, it was still fresh in my mind, so where King took Danny Torrance here, made sense to me, felt right.
But King is not a man of few words and so there are others here; the good and the bad, with histories of their own to share.
It is a good story.I know that there are many who bemoan King’s loquaciousness but I love it.
I am not going to tell you this story, King should.
With quite a time gap between The Shining and Doctor Sleep, Danny is now a full-grown man and the family dynamics of the Torrance family still linger as the cycle of addiction sadly makes it way down the generational pipeline.
Despite having a new and heavily gifted shining child in the mix, my book love still went to Danny.
He's one of my all-time favorite fictional characters just making the best out of all the good and bad he was given and trying to survive like us all.
I'm so glad King moved forward with Doctor Sleep, and I'm even more glad I finally read it.
zip it...shhhh...no...talk to the handI imagine King approached the story of Danny Torrence all grown up with a lot of respect and trepidation.
The Shining is one of King's most memorable novels, with an iconic film adaptation that in some ways has even eclipsed the book itself.
In a lot of ways Doctor Sleep is a completely different book altogether, because it's written by a completely different man who has lived a lot of life and learned a lot of things.
(hide spoiler)]There is a lot to enjoy here, but for me there is an emotional depth missing that I've come to crave with King's books and the characters he creates.
My concerns were also with the amount of time between the two books and that with the ending of The Shining which direction King would take with a sequel.Now that I have read it I would recommend it to anyone.
So many times we are referred back to scenes and incidents from The Shining while the story moves forward but we are also taken on a completely different ride.It is no secret that Doctor Sleep is based around the adult life of Dan Torrence, the child who spent a year with his family in the Overlook Hotel.
The Shining was my favorite Stephen King book when I was a teenager. I listened to the audio version of Doctor Sleep, and really enjoyed it, but somehow it didn’t live up to the Shining. Granted, our memory of books from our youths is an extremely hard act to follow. I would have given Doctor Sleep four stars, but I felt that the climax was too easy. Stephen King is a master storyteller, so I don’t cut him any slack when it comes to the conclusion!
No.But it was still pretty damn close.In The Shining Danny became one of the most interesting characters I’ve read about, so (at least in my opinion) if any character deserved a sequel, it would be him.
And now, that I’ve finished it, I can safely say that King couldn’t have done a better job.This book and The Shining had different vibes.
But, like in The Shining, my favorite part of this book were the characters.
I can safely say that King got into my ‘top three favorite authors’ list, and I've got a feeling that he’ll climb even higher in the future.I’m gonna end this review on a positive note (like King himself did with this book):FEAR stands for face everything and recover.
About halfway through the book, King seems to realize she lacks fright, and he gives her one tooth/tusk thing that comes and goes when she's eating "steam" or just when she's feeling a little salty.
Especially in a top hat.Another thing about this tooth...it's not original.
Another thing he's rehashed...Dan inhales Momo's cancer, and then expels it to kill Rose the Hat. It's directly out of The Green Mile and what happens to Percy and The Kid. Not only is Rose not very frightening in aspect, she is also, from the beginning, completely outclassed paranormally speaking.
It's hard to feel any building tension when Abra, our wunderkind, is careful to never come within thousands of physical miles of Rose.
I'm always filled with anticipation when Stephen King releases a new book.
I saw him in person 2 years ago and he did a reading from Doctor Sleep and I've been impatiently waiting for it to be published ever since.
He was quoted as saying about Doctor Sleep that he wanted to get back to "balls to the wall" horror.
Every time this happened in the book, it was so touching.As in so many of King's stories, in many ways this came down to a struggle of good vs.
the bad guys, and good doesn't always win.This book is another perfect example of why I love to read.
Again it was the old insidious insanity--that first drink." The Big Book of Alcoholics Anonymous Stephen King has often acknowledged that The Shining, one of his first big blockbusters, came out of his rough and rock-bottom drinking days.
Recall, if you will, The Shining's Mr. Torrance was working on a novel while hitting the bottle hard.
