https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/129671.The_Collected_Stories_of_Katherine_Anne_Porter
Granny Weatherall is nearly eighty and she's in bed, surrounded by her children, her doctor and a minister.
She's dying.
If I get lucky and grow very old and slowly waste away in bed surrounded by grieving relatives and creditors and quietly happy heirs I'll surely remember, in my grogginess, this story.
What was the name of the dying grandmother there?
Ah, yes, Granny Weatherall (for she weathered all!).
No. She has a longer name.
Ah, yes, Katherine Ann Porter!
Tomorrow I need to give my friend's grandson that old bike I no longer need...
Somehow, though I was a literature major, I had never read more than a couple of Porter's stories before something recently triggered my decision to check this collection out of the library.
Huge thanks to that something, for I enjoyed the reading thoroughly.Porter has a poet's ability to describe a gesture, a way of moving, or a scene with similes that make your jaw drop, so precise & unexpected & moving they are.
If I had had the foresight I would have jotted down lots more before returning the book.There is a recurring character, Miranda, whom we meet sometimes as a child & sometimes as a young or youngish woman.
KAP is one of my favorite writers, and this collection is a must-read not only for those who appreciate classic 20th-century stylists such as Hemingway and Faulkner but for those who enjoy contemporary multi-layered narratives of, say, Alice Munro.
You just have to take a step back, too, and admire the way Porter manages big events and precise, quotidian detail while never relinquishing hold on her characters.Other good ones: "The Leaning Tower" (inspired by Porter's interwar Berlin experiences), and "Holiday" (a visit to a German peasant family with brutal family secrets).In short, KAP is brilliant; these are to read & re-read.
Recently I read a memoir by Reynolds Price in which he said that she had written stories of the highest order, equal to Chekhov, Faulkner, Joyce and others.
So I went looking for her collected stories in this new house of ours and found them right where I had placed them, fully intending to leave them there until we moved somewhere else and took them with us again.Now I've read them and would say that Price had it right.
Good writing is good writing, short or long.In a marvelous, multi-part tale called "The Old Order," Porter paints an age through characters and generations not through plot.
When I bought this at Half Price Books a few weeks ago, the clerk said to me "Katherine Anne Porter is such a good writer that she almost makes up for the rest of Texas." I repeated that comment to my parents later, but they didn't find it quite as amusing as I did.
No solution for love in the stories of Katherine Ann Porter, just the comfort and joy between author and reader.
"He wondered if anybody had ever thought - oh, well, of course everybody else had, he was always making marvelous discoveries that other people had known all along - how impossible it is to explain or to make other eyes see the special qualities in the person you love.
He thought there was something to be said for living with one person day and night the year round.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
The Collected Stories (1965) includes all three of her published short fiction books, Flowering Judas and Other Stories (1930), Pale Horse Pale Rider (1937-39), and The Leaning Tower and Other Stories (1944) and deservedly won the National Book Award and the Pulitzer Prize in 1966.Porter’s stories are intense, sometimes grim, but tautly written and rich in psychological insight.
In between are stories involving farm families, Irish ward politicians, revolutionaries, movie folks, and a handful involving a woman named Miranda, set in early childhood through young adult.
I read these stories over a period of several weeks, reading a single story at a time or even the longer stories over 2-3 days.
This is a collection of three of her prior publications: Flowering Judas and Other Stories, Pale Horse, Pale Rider, and The Old Order: Stories of the South.
I liked the stories from Flowering Judas better than the others.
The first story in Pale Horse and those from the Old Order were of the same family.
It is a large collection and I think I would have gotten tired of so many had I read them back to back without interspersing with other reading.

Really impressed. I don't think I would have picked this up if I hadn't started on the questionable quest of reading all the Pulitzer winners for fiction. Love the writing.
Katherine Anne porter wrote 38 short stories.
Her collected short stories garnered her a national book award and the Pulitzer prize.
She writes best when she sets the stories in Texas where she grew up.where she w,as born in 1890.
I did not like the stories set in Mexico except for "Marie Concepcion", which is a great story of vengeance and revenge by a peasant woman who bided her time but gets even.Porter married when she was 16.
She married 4 times including a much younger man who promptly left her when he learned her age.
She lived in Texas.
Katherine Anne Porter seems sadly under-read, and this is a truly strong and impressive collection of stories. Most notable, I think, is Porter’s impressive stylistic range. She seems capable of shifting her narrative technique with perfect, invisible ease from story to story. I should have read them more slowly.Favorite stories:“María Concepción”“Flowering Judas”“Old Mortality”“Pale Horse, Pale Rider”
I had to read this short story for one of my creative writing courses, but it does not really speak to me. Granny is thinking way too much about trivial things while she is on the verge of dying. All will be well, Granny, you can go now.Perhaps Katherine Anne Porter's other stories are more to my liking, perhaps I'll read something else written by her in the future.
This book won the Pulitzer Prize in 1966. Katherine Anne Porter has written a collection of 28 short stories. Like other collections of short stories some were more interesting than others. I give this book 3 stars. The best collection of short stories I have read is Jhumpa Lahiri's, Interpreter of Maladies which was the 2000 Pulitzer Prize winner.
I advise readers of this book to skip over the first collection, Flowering Judas and Other Stories and proceed straight to Pale Horse, Pale Rider, which is a solid four stars and will give you everything that's good about Porter's writing (lush characterization, amusing plot quirks that yield major epiphanies, inventive prose, and piercing insight into the, like, human heart).
It's hard to balance Porter's acceptance of the idea that Germans are racially stolid, graceless, and generally belonging to a lower order of animal, with her astute observations about war, poverty, hunger, and the ways they twist people into unrecognizable shapes, in the story “The Leaning Tower,” written and taking place in Berlin, 1931.The shortcomings are particularly evident in the early collection Flowering Judas, with its unbearably patronizing attitudes toward Mexicans.
Granny Weatherall is lying sick in bed fighting death from over taking her. Doctor Harry is standing by trying to help her, but she doesn't want his help because she thinks he isn't helping. Cornelia, Granny Weatheralls daughter is standing right next to the bed trying to comfort her mother in her last hour. Then the pastor comes in to give Granny Weatherall her last rights.Granny Weatherall is a very old lady who has lived a long life by fighting for everything. She is strong willed and doesn't
Doctor Harry is standing by trying to help her, but she doesn't want his help because she thinks he isn't helping.
Cornelia, Granny Weatherall´s daughter is standing right next to the bed trying to comfort her mother in her last hour.
Then the pastor comes in to give Granny Weatherall her last rights.Granny Weatherall is a very old lady who has lived a long life by fighting for everything.
Her daughter is a very supportive person who will not leave her mother´s side.Doctor Harry, Cornelia, and the pastor are all in Granny Weatherall´s room waiting for her to pass on.
I stopped reading this book about 3/4 of the way through.
Maybe I'll go back to it later just to say I read it all.
Maybe the writing is too quiet and intricate for my current mind frame.
I do know that most of the stories I would finish and then have to go back because i had no idea what had happened.
And on a third reading still had only a vague impression of the author's purpose in writing the story.
She ends stories gently.
I often stopped at the end of a story to think why KAP would end her story at the point that she did.
Whenever my sweetheart says "Carveresque," I think of the author standing at the head of a fully-laden Thanksgiving table, long fork and knife in hand, cutting up a manuscript.
Talking about short stories the other evening and he suggested Porter's "Rope" as a portrait of a relationship pared down with a super sharp scalpel, and he wasn't kidding -- it's down to the bone.
These don't seem like the kind of stories to sit down and read straight through.Huh...
OK - next story, then."Flowering Judas" is disconcerting from the first sentence.
It's a house of mirrors of a story, weird surfaces to everything.
I liked "Holiday" (German peasants and their difficulties but also their joys and heartiness--there's some real good family stuff for me to analyze here) and "The Leaning Tower" (artist in Berlin feels like an outsider, wonders about why/how life is worth living, the smallness of dreams in the vastness of the world and other people--some good traveling to Brazil stuff for me to think about) very much.
The Mexico ones didn't reach me as much as I thought they might, especially after I read the later ones and really felt touched by them.
Glad I read them.
This is the second volume of National Book Award winning stories selected by my book club for study in 2013.
Katherine Anne Porter wrote about places she was familiar with; her stories are set in places she lived.
Each story in the collection, which won the prestigious award in 1966, reflects cultural and societal mores of the time and locale, spanning the decades of her writing career.
Whether the stories are very short or very long, character development and plot movement is precise and exacting.
The short story was her favorite form, having written only one novel, Ship of Fools,in the mid-sixties, which also won an award.
I only read a small portion of this book--the section describing Miranda's experience with the influenza epidemic of 1918.
Porter's description is very touching.
It centers around the song "Pale Horse, Pale Rider" sung by Blacks in the South to express feelings about loved ones carried off, one imagines by slave traders.
In Porter's story of that title it also refers to those carried off by the influenza.
Having been reading about slavery, I was particularly moved by this double meaning.
Perhaps I will go back and read more of Porter some day.
Actually, the book I read was the Library of America volume "Katherine Anne Porter: Collected Stories and Other Writings" but for some odd reason Goodreads couldn't come up with that volume.
Which is too bad because the "Other Writings" comprise about half of the LOA volume and are often as good as the fictional stories--most of which are superb.
I can't believe that it took me this long to discover such an incredible American writer, but I am not complaining.
Her descriptive powers, her honesty, and her courage come through over and over in both her fiction and her non-fiction, and the LOA edition is, as always, a joy to read.
This collection of stories are as varied was Katherine Anne Porter's life. Some of her stories reflect childhood towns in Brown County, Texas (Noon Wine) – an area in central Texas wherein my mother grew up. Other stories reflect San Antonio, a city where Porter moved to later in life. And one story reflects her Diego Rivera (The Martyr) whom she became acquainted with while living in Mexico. All her stories are interesting and thought provoking. However Porter is probably best known for her novel, “Ship of Fools."
For the times these stories were written (between 1920-1950 predominantly) these all would have fit wonderfully in the spectrum of other prize winners.
As Miranda matures the stories hold more weight for me, but the majority of them are written from an omniscient narrator observing the customs of children and the good ole days of Southern Bucolic Pride.
Every black character in nearly every story is a servant or a farm aid or a maid or hostess or housekeeper or a drunk.
Aside from the insanely outdated language of these tales, she feels the need to use what I'd call literary blackface for nearly all of these characters with dialogue written in phonetical jargon.
I guess I just like a longer read.There are some writers who work within this genre who stand out for me - James Joyce, Raymond Carver, Ernest Hemingway, Ellen Gilchrist, & Alice Adams.
I loved that I got a true sense of the before & after lives of these characters & that I cared.This collection is also wonderful for the reason all collections like that are wonderful - you really get to see the maturation of the writer through their writing.
In this regard short story writers probably have the advantage.
I tend to not like books of short stories by a single author.
Magazines of short stories I like because the type of stories tend to be genre-specific and have varied styles coming from the several contributors.
With books of short stories by a single author, you have one style, one voice.
If you don't enjoy the style/voice from the outset, it has little chance of improving.Of this book, I liked and enjoyed only one story: Holiday.
It's not that big a book, just shy of 500 pages, but it took me 45 days to read it.
The Collected Stories of Katherine Anne Porter took the Pulitzer in 1965 if I could give this 3 1/2 stars that would be more accurate.
The book is actually split into 3 parts - the first called Flower Judas and Other stories - mostly very short stories -the second 1/3 is Pale Horse, Pale Rider and I made of three longer stories and the third The Leaning Tower and Other stories.
The Flowering Judas stories were OK and the reason I can't give it four.
Once I hit these sections I couldn't put the book down.
I was really looking forward forward to this collection of short stories--for quite a while.
I enjoy short stories.
I also enjoy learning a bit about the life of an author I am reading.
Knowing this about the collection made me even more excited about getting to these stories.
Beyond that I enjoyed some of the stories and others I did not.
Ultimately, reading this collection was too often work.
I felt I was having to push myself to get through it, and it was taking too long to complete.
I especially dislike collections of short stories because even the best authors' voices come through in them.
While I typically like to feel as though I can hear an author's voice, when it happens during a book of 30 of their short stories and it's the same author with different stories, I get confused, partially due to the fact that I'm extremely dumb and partially due to the fact that they almost always center around the same themes or characters who hail from similar backgrounds and locations.
Every one of these stories was completely different in style, voice, content and characterization and every one of the stories was brilliant.
