https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16390.The_Mating_Season
The only parts I remembered were the allusions to Childe Roland to the Dark Tower Came, since I'm a Dark Tower junkie, and the bit with the cosh.First, the primer for anyone who has never read a Jeeves book before: Bertie Wooster is one of the idle rich in Edwardian England and Jeeves is his valet (or Gentleman's Personal Gentleman) who specializes in extricating him from trouble.Like pretty much all of P.G. Wodehouse's Jeeves tales, this one involves romantic misunderstandings and Bertie Wooster trying his best to sort them out without Jeeves.
If you're me and I'm you, who are or are not these other two chaps?That's is the question one might ask when diving into a terribly tangled web of deceit such as you'll find in P.G. Wodehouse's The Mating Season, where a faked identity might be the only thing that saves our hero Bertie Wooster from the horrors of marriage!This is one of my personal favorite of Wodehouse's.
Even the usually incorruptibly proper Jeeves gets in on the ruse, doing his utmost for his employer Wooster, who's doing his utmost to remain unmarried to the drippy Madeline Bassett, while possibly hitching her up with his loopy, newt-loving friend.
There was so much potential in it but it seemed that Wodehouse decided to let the aunts be on this occasion.I am surprised that most people seem to think that Wooster is bit of a saphead.
It was loud in spots and less loud in other spots, and it had that quality which I have noticed in all violin solos, of seeming to last much longer than it actually did."* in case you have just landed on this planet recently, I am referring to the popular British show in which Wooster was played by Hugh Laurie.
To give an idea of his incredible range, here is what Wodehouse substitutes in the book for "drunk" :- scrooched, - fried to the tonsils, - pie-eyed, - lathered, - a mite polluted, - doing the Lost Weekend, - getting tight, - pleasantly mellowedI've reached the end of the book, as usual, with a happy smile on my face, and with the pleasant thought that there are still so many books by the author waiting patiently for their turn on my reading list.
Bertie Wooster, his manservant Jeeves, and a bunch of Bertie's friends (Gussie Fink-Nottle, Madeline Bassett, and Catsmeat Potter-Pirbright) end up on holiday at the country manor Deverill Hall, but at very different times.
Bertie cannot imagine a fate worse than being married to the kooky, bizarre, airheaded Madeline, so he decides to impersonate Gussie at Deverill Hall so that Dame Daphne will be fooled and word won't get out that Gussie was arrested.
Meanwhile, Corky of the vicarage, Catsmeat's sister, is in love with the young heir to Deverill Hall, Esmond.
The best pick me up for a soul suffering the doldrums of an ugly flu.
This book involves hoards of aunts, their nephews, nieces, Bertie, Jeeves and guest appearance by Thos, Bertie's transmitting of a cousin.The sundered hearts are Corky - Edmond, Catsmeat - Gertrude, Gussy - Madeline, Queenie - Dobbsthe masquerades are Gussy - Bertie who impersonate each other (due to a peculiar set of circumstances involving Traffalgar square and its fountains, newts, policemen, judges, heartbreaks) and Catsmeat impersonating a butler, Meadows.There are 6 aunts, each a terror,on her own, and withering nephews, plucky girls and hilarious plots.my advice - never read a Wodehouse in public.
Having spent the previous two weeks reading the fourth volume of Stephen King’s Dark Tower series, which takes its inspiration from that very poem, it seemed as if the world was all coming together in a series of exciting connections.
Okay, on a very basic level this is man reads book which reminds him of previous book, but I always like the thrill when coincidence takes two very different things and folds them over each other.
Wouldn’t Jeeves come up with a doozy of a plan to reach The Dark Tower quicker and do what needs to be done?

One of Wodehouse's very best. The village concert scene in particular is deeply cathartic for anyone who's been roped into that kind of event!
تاريخ القراءة الأصلي : ٢٠٠٢موقع القراءة : بريطانيا
What we have is 4 aunts of a poor gentlemen with whom Bertie has to stay to mend matters of heart and give vent to the stage itch in him.
Worse is when all the 4 couples in the story having tiffs thereby endangering Bertie's freedom!One chaos of a book featuring the regulars and the...
The plot line is complicated, but then one understands that about matters of the heart.
Jeeves has to do a lot of heavy lifting to fix things, though some were automatically fixed thanks to the aforementioned matters of heart.Fun book..
Tal como a Ritinha previu, diverti-me bastante com esta ligeira comédia de costumes, muitíssimo bem escrita, sem deixar de ser despretensiosa.Era mesmo do que estava a necessitar nesta fase um tanto atribulada.Obrigada, Ritinha, não só pela recomendação mas principalmente por me teres feito chegar o livro em modo oferta.Não será o último que lerei deste autor que durante a sua longa vida, produziu um espólio igualmente vasto de obras.
Perhaps not Wodehouse's greatest story, but definitely one of his wittiest tellings.
"עונת הזיווגים" הוא השלישי מספרי וודהאוס שתורגם לעברית.
למרות שהשניים הראשונים ממתינים על מדפי, התחלתי דווקא בשלישי, בשל העובדה הפשוטה שהוא נקרא ישר משקית הקניות.וודהאוס, שהתגורר רוב חייו הבוגרים בארצות הברית, כותב בסיגנון בריטי שופע הומור ושנינה.
העיניין מתבהר והחל מפרק 4 מדובר בתענוג צרוף (גם של תרגום שהוא אמנות בפני עצמה בספר הזה בשל כפל המשמעויות הדקות).וציטוט :"מוזר איך אפשר להכיר בן אדם מקרוב ומשחר נעוריות ועם זאת לשמור על אי ידיעה לגבי פן אחד שלו.
מצאה חן בעיני עבודת הקרסולים שלו.תנועותיו של דובס, לעומת זאת, היו מאומצות יותר, ולעין כשלי, שאומנה להשקיף על מרוצי סוסים בשטח פתוח, הוא נראה חסר סיכוי.
The Jeeves and Wooster novels are arguably the jewel in the crown of Wodehouse’s catalogue and ‘The Mating Season’ is without doubt the greatest of them all.Gussie Fink-Nottle’s engagement will be broken if his non appearance at Deverill Hall is reported to Madeline Bassett and since he was given 14 days without the option after Catsmeat Potter-Pirbright convinced him to wade in the fountain in Trafalgar square this is looking quite likely.
Since Bertie would be the next in line, due to an unfortunate series of events, he is persuaded to visit under the Fink-Nottle banner with Catsmeat posing as his valet, Meadows, in order to be close to Gertrude Winkworth as their banns have recently been disallowed by the Deverill Hall residents.
Right up there. It seems to have more and shorter set pieces than other Jeeves novels and the pace benefits as a result. Particularly liked the after dinner impromptu rehearsal. Wodehouse could have been just as much at home in the Spy novel genre, such are the plot dynamics.
פחות טוב מ"טוב ויפה, ג'יבס". לקח איזה 120 עמודים עד שנכסנתי לספר עצמו. אבל וודהאוס זה וודהאוס. משעשע ושנון תמיד.
Spring is in the air, which means young hearts are ready to tie the knot. Unfortunately, a series of misunderstandings has sundered the hopes of the young lovers. Can Bertie and Jeeves reunite the lovers and extricate Bertie from a situation worse than death? You'll have to read the novel to find out.
Reading Wodehouse is pure bliss.
In his own words “I believe there are two ways of writing novels.
It's probably because you were born that way." "For a humorous novel you've got to have a scenario, and you've got to test it so that you know where the comedy comes in, where the situations come in … splitting it up into scenes (you can make a scene of almost anything) and have as little stuff in between as possible."Bandings castle and its characters is one the best of his creations.
The Mating Season includes no fewer than four couples in various stages of tiff, with at least six of the individuals involved pretending to be interested in six of the others to induce jealousy.
There is also talent show wherein all the participants are performing acts that they do not wish to be performing and that are totally unsuited to them.
It's a most unpleasant feeling."3) "I was for the nonce a spent force, incapable of even kicking the cat, which, possibly under the impression that this rigid Bertram was a tree, had now started to sharpen its claws on my leg."
Another lovely mess, in which Gussie gets pinched while searching for newts in Trafalgar fountain, so Bertie goes to the country to impersonate him at the same country house where Catsmeat's true love lives with 5 aunts.
Aunts, as we all know, are the bane of Bertie's existence - even if they're not his aunts, and that proves to be true here.
These aunts are keeping Bertie's friend Catsmeat from his girl, Gertrude, and Catsmeat's sister from her true love, Haddock.
:) Aunts and lovers make for much trouble for Bertie, which makes for a lot of fun for the reader or listener.
The ruse causes assorted romantic mix-ups, of course, and the day can only be saved by Jeeves' dry wit and clear thinking.The diction in these books is one of my main pleasures in reading them, and The Mating Season was no exception: "Jeeves, in speaking of this Fink-Nottle, had, if you remember, described him as disgruntled, and it was plain at a glance that the passage of time had done nothing to gruntle him." Fans of The Disreputable History of Frankie Landau-Banks will probably get more out of that quote than others.
:) The Mating Season is a great book, very fun and funny; highly recommended.

This is my second P.G.Wodehouse book (after Ukridge) and I have already come to a conclusion that his books are nothing but pure fun. Although it is quite predictable that there exists an inevitable denouement is his lighthearted stories, the nature of the revelation is jaunty and dramatic. The deus ex machina of Jeeves and the weak-nerved Bertram Wooster's narration are quite entertaining. I can easily see myself reaching out to Wodehouse next time I am sandwiched between heavy reads.
It took me a while to notice that I had a half-smile on my face every moment that I was reading this. Great way with words, faultless comic momentum. And i saw a picture of PG Wodehouse and he was quite the cutie too. What ho! Bally good etc
This was a re-read. One of my all-time favorite Wodehouse books.
One of the most inspired Jeeves and Wooster plots!
But in AG that translates to an awful lot of fat per episode, as the writers try to fill the unforgiving hour with 50 minutes of getting to the point, whilst with the Wodehouse, every chapter runs flawlessly along on silvered tracks, ending on a brilliant new plot wrinkle, that's at once utterly logical given what's gone before, but totally unguessable in advance.
These wrinkles pile higher and higher until it seems no resolution could possibly be satisfying until finally, Wodehouse pulls the lever marked 'happy ending' and we can see that no other resolution would possibly have worked.
One of the best!
So perfect. Sometimes, even when you think you are not in the mood for Wodehouse, you need a Wodehouse. And if your British accent is not up to snuff, listen to someone good-- if not Hugh Laurie, then give Blackstone Audio a try!
