https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8701589-some-do-not
The most astonishing thing is how different people were in this country just 100 years ago. I so often had the feeling that there was a great deal of context and subtext that I was utterly missing, when vast sums of meaning are conveyed in a mere, 'Oh, darling...'I probably shouldn't have read this book as a way to pull myself out of a reading funk. It's pretty tough to go from absolutely no attention span to stream of consciousness!
This conversation, which tellingly takes place in the dark, shines in contrast to the obscured upper class language of Tietjen’s wife and best friend, and others from the worlds of (Catholic) church, army, White Hall, intellectual salons, landed gentry, etc.Mostly, though, Ford gives the reader the heart and guts of men and women before and during wartime, caught in social conventions that lead them to do both noble and despicable things.
Ford also shows how Tietjens is simultaneously emblematic of his class in his love of land and system, and unusual for his contempt and willingness to rip apart the conventions of overlooking unpleasant things that involve his peers.
Кратко излагаю правила, по которым оно функционирует у Форда в описанные времена (перед и во время первой мировой):- если мужчину (неважно, женатого или нет) увидели проходящим по улице под руку с женщиной (неважно, замужем или нет), в глазах общества у них страстный роман- если девушка заговорила с незнакомым мужчиной, она шлюха, и скорее всего у нее от него ребенок- для того, чтобы все общество думало, что у вас от кого-то ребенок, совсем необязательно им видеть никакого ребенка у вас дома.
Поэтому наличие незаконного ребенка молва может приписать вам в любое время безо всяких доказательств.
"There will never be a Ford Madox Ford revival," said my very tweedy English prof in college. Alas, probably not. This 4-volume work is usually cited for the intensity of its coverage of WWI and and the surrounding times in England. For me, it's the unrivaled intensity of emotion throughout. What the protagonist, Tietjens, and his star-crossed lover, Valentine Wannop (!) go through to try to find some resolution in life is, in places, like an operation without anesthetic. God, could Ford get at the confounding necessities of human life.
I found reading this quite strange: frankly a bit of a mess, but an interesting one. The tone was frequently on the verge of hysteria, and yet the central character was the epitome of the British stiff upper lip. Yes, I know about still waters running deep, but even so ...However, I am intrigued enough to go on with the series, as I suspect that the later volumes will help make more sense of what motivated the various characters, especially Sylvia and Edith Ethel. What motivated Ford to create these unpleasant women may need a bit of psychoanalysis!
dnf around 50%you know, I truly thought I was going to finish this book despite knowing it was going to be 1 star since chapter two. I guess I felt confident because I had a paperback and was easier to go on reading.basically: I don't know what the book is about. There's no plot, lots of characters and long paragraphs of introspection.It's boring, confusing and very british. Usually I love british novels but this was too much.Just watch the tv show with Benedict Cumberbatch, it's better.
From Wiki:The novels chronicle the life of Christopher Tietjens, "the last Tory", a brilliant government statistician from a wealthy landowning family who is serving in the British Army during World War I.
His wife Sylvia is a flippant socialite who seems intent on ruining him.
Tietjens may or may not be the father of his wife's child.
The two central novels follow Tietjens in the army in France and Belgium, as well as Sylvia and Valentine in their separate paths over the course of the war.The sequel of this book is No More Parades.
I wanted to get my feelings down on these books singularly as I read them - much like I did with the Patrick Melrose series.
I came to this books solely through the BBC adaptation - and my weird love for the funny-named Englishman who graced the role of Christopher Tietjens.
From my experience with the telly series, I can already tell you that Tietjens is one of my favourite literary characters.
My feelings toward other characters have changed since reading this first installment - the Macmasters are snivelling and conniving.
Ford is very, very thorough. It's like he was writing for the future, knowing that the social machinations of the day would seem so antiquated just a generation later, so that it all had to be written down for historians' sake. It's a little hard to relate to the motivations of these characters, however.There are some really beautiful passages, as well.
I was expecting dry toast. I was expecting a heavy handed author. What I got was a very involved, yet delicate, story. There wasn't much in the way of action but there was a lot in the way of emotion and inner workings.
Which is what the book is, really: a very tight winding in the distinct voice of the times.Not a re-read for me.
If I was forced to choose one to re-read, it would definitely be A Man Could Stand Up–, which has some achingly beautiful language and moments.__________I had decided to move this book up on my queue when I saw that the new British TV series was written by Tom Stoppard.
(For Stoppard reviews, see here and here.) Of course, Cumberbatch fever helped.I ended up watching the whole five-part series while I was on a break from reading the novel, which has confused me considerably.
He works for the Government as a civil servant, deriving statistics for the great and good and, as an entitled genius from a "good family", would have a career of undoubted greatness set before him were it not for the fact that he is incapable of kissing ass and taking names, a game he fails at miserably.Then the First World War and shell shock interrupt.Arguably it's problematic that the war itself is but a shadow in this novel - an inciting incident of sorts, no more.
"What I stand for is gone."It says a lot for Ford Madox Ford’s ability to expand the significance of a character by thoughtfully providing a social and historical context that Christopher Tietjens is indisputably the hero of “Some Do not” (1924).
Possibly because he is above entitlement, when nearly all of the characters around him expect it, his qualities and his unwavering commitment to rights and duties endure, and to a greater extent than his predecessor in Ford’s work: Edward Ashburnham, the hero of “The Good Soldier” (1915), a novel that is usually more acclaimed but that I like less than “Some Do Not”.
The Good Soldier is such a charming and special book that I was expecting more than Some Do Not...
delivered.
The story is disjointed, in fact I lost the time sequence a couple of times and in the end it is not really about WWI but instead comes across as a bit of a bodice ripper.
I may read the others in the set or may not depending on how I feel about it after a bit more thought.
Definitely not close to the standard of the Good Soldier.
(Purchased at Ca' Foscarina book shop in Venice)
Some very good reviews here so I’ll be brief. This was a reread for me, and I hoped I’d still admire it. I found it (again) brilliant stylistically, structurally and psychologically. Sad, smart and witty.
Absolute brilliance, this whole series. I have read it through three times.
Having seen the TV show, I hoped I'd like the book. So many nuances missed by the TV show. The structure was overly complex, the characters in very strange and not likeable and I'm not sure what the point of the constant misunderstandings was. I can't get on with the next book though at all.

Amid the curious Downton Abbey fancy that has swept up American television viewers (among whom I too am swept up), I decided to read Ford's tetralogy after having seen a New Republic review call the BBC/HBO television adaptation, in effect, "Downton Abbey for grown-ups." Chronologically, the first installment of the four novels, Some Do Not..., covers much of the same ground as Downton Abbey but in a distinctively modernist way - jumping with little announcement from pre-WWI to post-WWI and back again, obliquely foreshadowing events readers will learn about only much later, if at all (other installments will fill in some of the blanks), with long stretches of stream-of-consciousness narration, and so on.
is the first novel in Ford Madox Ford's classic Modernist tetralogy  Parade's End. Some people have compared this work to Downton Abbey.
Ford's work is no plot-driven soap opera.
It seemed to be impossible to relate to any of the characters.
Slowly I began to realize that though the behavior, values and aspirations of the characters were foreign to me, the central matters of the human condition are universal.
The conflicts that the characters face are those we all face.
I'm looking forward to reading No More Parades the second book of the series.
I think I never liked the ideas, thoughts and feelings of different books bleeding into one another; but here it seems to enhance, rather than annoy.So, with a relaxing pint in the pub last night, I made a start on Some Do Not. Enjoying it, 50 pages in.
It has elements of farce and satire so far, a bit like an edgier version of Wilde; it oddly sparked off an association in me with some Humphrey Bogart films – no idea why (maybe if I understood why, I'd understand something more of myself).
Przyznam szczerze, że nie zwróciłabym uwagi na tę książkę, gdyby nie okładka z Benedictem Cumberbatchem, którego ubóstwiam i którego talent aktorski szczerze podziwiam, a byłby to duży błąd, bo ta pozycja jest naprawdę warta uwagi.Mimo, że opowieść toczy się czasie I wojny światowej, nie znajdziecie tu krwawych opisów walk, nagłych zawirowań, zwrotów akcji, ale, tylko pozornie, leniwie snujące się koleje losu gentelmana i arystokraty - Christophera Tietjensa.Po pierwszych kartach, pochopnie, stwierdziłam, że będzie to nudna, zachowawcza angielska saga, nic bardziej mylnego.
Dawno nikt mnie tak nie irytował, jak Sylvia Tietjens, rasowa jędza, przepraszam za wyrażenie, ale myślę, że jest najbardziej adekwatne- zimna suka, która rozgrywa życie na swoją korzyść i robi to w białych rękawiczkach.
Though I wasn't much pleased with the way the BBC series ended, I can still manage to admire the story in its delicate and sad beginning and its yet strong and chaste characters.
There is significant depth to the characters and reworking their psychological details is beyond the scope of a film series, therefore the books are essential to get the full picture.
Ford's narrative flows back and forth in time and very smoothly at that.
All in all, I have liked this story tremendously and will try to to read the other novels soon.
I have read it to myself once and a second time, out loud.
I am glad I read it out loud as slowing down helped with the chronology (which really confused the storyline for me the first time through.)It was really interesting to see the characters through each other's eyes.
You seduced a young woman in order to be able to finish your talks with her.
You could not live with her without seducing her; but that was the by-product.
You mayn't be in the mood when she is in the mood - for the intimate conversation that means the final communion of you souls.
"Some do not ..." is the first book of the tetralogy "Parades End". The tetralogy is set before and during the first World War. It is a part of the story of Christopher Tietjens (will the rest follow in the other books of the tetralogy?), who is unhappily married to an unfaithful wife. Although he loves another women, and she loves him, it does not come to a close relationship. The author unfolds the story in an interesting way, although this asks some extra concentration and patience of the rea
The tetralogy is set before and during the first World War. It is a part of the story of Christopher Tietjens (will the rest follow in the other books of the tetralogy?), who is unhappily married to an unfaithful wife.
In the first place the story is not told chronologically, but the events are further filled in in later chapters, by flashbacks in the thoughts of the characters.
I found this an interesting aspect of the book.
The main part of the book is the giving of psychological background of the (relatively few) events that make the story.
So months later I've finally started.And it was good!
And the description of Tietjens is really not that of a romantic hero...which is actually kinda awesome.
Tietjens is this sort of weird character who doesn't really fit into the world he lives in.
And I just love how much he struggles with that.
The people around him for the most part aren't that nice.And then Valentine comes along and they have this funny love story where they literally have like 3 conversations across all these years...and yet they're crazy about each other.
In sum: pretty good.
Ein Stern Abzug für die Übersetzung von 2003, die in ihrem Übereifer für den zeitlich "passenden Ton" plüschiger daherkommt als das englische Original.
Davon abgesehen begeistert mich auch diese Fassung; es schimmert immer wieder ein stoisch-absurder Wortwitz hindurch, der dem Treiben in der Jauchegrube der britischen High Society rund um WKI die Würze gibt.
Ein Treiben ohne "klassische" Höhepunkte in der Erzählung, wohlgemerkt, die Faszination ergibt sich aus dem Fluß mit Bocksprüngen im Handlungsablauf, den Schlenkern und Haken in den Gedankengängen der Protagonisten.Und ja, ich seh immer noch bei manchen Dialogen Loriots Knollennasenmännchen in meinem Kopfkino, ich kann nix dagegen tun."Ach!"
I can already tell I'm going to be rereading this series at some point, which I certainly hadn't expected.
The time period, topics and tone distinguish this book as part of the post WWI deluge, and yet the grand sweep of events and personal turmoil as a metaphor for the changes facing British society as whole reminds me distinctly of nineteenth century Russian novels.Meanwhile: "If you wanted something killed you'd go to Sylvia Tietjens in the sure faith that she would kill it; emotion: hope: ideal: kill it quick and sure." MY GIRL!!!On to book 2.
I want to rant and rave.
I want everyone to know of its genius.
The way the novel envelops you; reminds you of your own love.
The novel cleverly creates an empathetic reader, and we want the rose-red days of love to live on forever.
Richly engaged and tied to every corner of the world, England seems isolated, but this text reminds the reader the far-reaches of England's Empire and the biting nature of a gossip-ready bureaucratic class.
Read this novel and fall in love.
Fall in love and recall it's intricacies.

