https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9684523-caleb-s-crossing
BETHIA'S CROSSING would be a title more indicative of the book's contents. Caleb is mostly a peripheral character. Feisty Puritan girl finds devious ways of gaining the knowledge she craves but is denied simply because she is a female. First I ever heard of someone getting a college education via eavesdropping.
The story is based on sketchy knowledge of the life of Caleb Cheeshahteaumauk – the first Native American to graduate from Harvard College -- and a member of the Wampanoag tribe in what is now Martha’s Vineyard.This is truly a work of imagination since the sources on Caleb’s brief, tragic, and remarkable life are scant.
Bethia goes along with Caleb and Makepeace as indentured help, striving to remain in close proximity to scholars and avoid her fate as yet another small settlement farm wife.There are plenty of twists and turns, trauma and heartbreak, celebrations and sadness along the way; after all, Geraldine Brooks already has a reputation as an absorbing story teller who is able to imaginatively use history to fictional ends.
Bethia loves the island, which is something she finds she has in common with this native whose home her people have taken over.“We are taught early here to see Nature as a foe to be subdued.
I feel pretty certain that Brooks herself knows exactly what she means, and it’s an unnecessary nuisance for readers to have to guess or stop reading and start researching.
England is determined to make inroads into the resident population and funds their education, but after the “crossing” for study (from the island and onto the mainland), the book takes another turn.I enjoyed the characters and the story, but I was never completely absorbed in it.
It takes place in the golden period of peace with the Indians between the first colony in Plymouth in 1620 and the onset of King Philip’s War in 1675, which was covered so well in Philbrick’s popular history “Mayflower”.
Unlike the Jesuits in Canada who tried to get the Indians to add Christianity to their traditional culture, these are pressured to abandon their usual way of life.
We are proud that Caleb takes up special preparatory education to enter a special program at Harvard and proves himself the equal of whites in Latin, Greek, and Hebrew, but it is inevitable to feel also the tragedy of his sacrifice in giving up his way of life.
Maybe it's in the way her books completely inhabit a certain era and setting, even assuming the characters' language and dialect.
She becomes a servant to put her brother through college; she who reads rare books in secret because she hopes to go to college like her brother, even though she is told that because she is a woman, she must marry, have children, cook, and clean.
Caleb enters Bethia's life when it is forbidden, because she is a Christian minister's daughter, she is a white woman, and her Indian neighbors are considered heathens and savages.
I thought it started slow, but then once it got going, I was very much into it--enjoying the strong female character who is smart and ahead of her time (something I think Brooks has done well in the past).
But when I reached the end, I couldn't help thinking Geraldine phoned it in.
I was so disappointed, *especially* knowing how glorious the ending to Year of Wonders (Brooks' first novel with a strong female character ahead of her time) was.
I was just let down by the treatment of the ending, and the fate of the central female character, in Caleb's Crossing.
As he taught Bethia the native ways, she knew she had to keep her burgeoning friendship with Caleb a secret.
Her father was a minister, and the life of a young girl in 1665 was closeted – letting him know of her friendship with Caleb was something she knew she could never do.After Bethia’s mother died in childbirth, she took over the care of her father, brother and baby sister.
The Afterword is extremely interesting as the author explains about the real-life Caleb Cheeshahteaumauk and her inspiration to create the fictional story in Caleb’s Crossing.
The way Brooks has written the book - from three points in Bethia's life, but looking back on what has happened to bring her to that point - is very skilfully done and provides an arc to the narrative that gives the reader a sense of completeness.
Caleb is trying to stay true to the spirits and the Wampanoag way of life, while also finding a place for himself and his people so that they may survive these newcomers and the unstoppable change they bring.
Caleb's Crossing is a tale inspired by the first Native American graduate of Harvard, Caleb Cheeshahteaumauk, a member of the Wopanaak tribe from what is now Martha's Vineyard.
Brooks was able to take scant information about this amazing scholar and spin a plausible and intriguing story that vividly recreates the era of history in which Native Americans were usually referred to as salvages (savages) and women were routinely denied control of their destinies.
Some would allow that the struggle still continues.As with her previous novel, People of the Book, Geraldine Brooks has given readers a fascinating historical fiction read in Caleb's Crossing.
If you cross The Mill on the Floss with The Last of the Mohicans, add a dash of Dances with Wolves, a pinch of Little House on the Prairie, maybe some The Education of Little Tree , The Scarlet Letter and even Tom Brown's School Days, you'll have a winner and call it Caleb's Crossing.
Caleb is Natty Bumppo, Tom Brown and Little Tree all rolled into one.
The Caleb of the story is the real life Caleb Cheeshahteaumuck, who became the first Native American to graduate from Harvard University In 1665.
This would be a very good YA book, especially for girls.
The genesis of Harvard too is interesting, and not just as the locus of where Caleb is educated in the classics and slotted into the harsh confines of a white, Puritan society in the New World.Those seeking a novel with a predictable romance between the two main characters may be surprised at how Ms Brooks deals with that possibility and I applaud her willingness to explore romantic love differently and to not have the story-telling mechanics of that dominating a far more important message.
I have found myself enthralled by Geraldine Brooks' writing before, but she attained a new level here.
Yes, this is a vague summary, but the point of my review is not to tell the tale, but give my impressions of it.
Despite the tragedy - which is not overwrought - there are light moments, enough of them, in fact, that the book did not feel ponderous.
Where I did feel the lack was in the conclusion of Caleb's portion of the tale.
I will continue to purchase and read anything written by Geraldine Brooks.
As relatively little is known about the historical Caleb, Brooks tells the story from the point of view of a fictitious character, Bethia Mayfield, the daughter of a colonial leader who develops a friendship with Caleb and who struggles with the varying demands of faith, family, community, friendship and a desperate desire for education.
The characters are believable and while Caleb is less vivid than the title of the novel would suggest, this is not surprising, given how little is known about the real-life Caleb.
But spending even part of the time I was reading this novel wondering about the real Caleb’s life was a little distracting.
The characters were well-drawn, and I feel like I know them well.
I can't put my finger on it exactly, but it feels as though the author got tired of the book and decided to end it.
It seemed like a big build-up and then, not an outright collapse, but a sharp turn and then *poof* end of book.
I'm glad I read this book, and I feel I learned a lot about 1600s America, which seemed accurate.
I expected more from the ending, and Bethia's adult years were virtually skipped, leaving a big hole in the story in my view.
The fact that the young woman protagonist of the story was so strong headed that she was permitted to wait years to marry seemed a little hard to swallow, but what do I know?The book seemed oddly titled to me because Caleb was not the main character, however I have come to understand that the book was marketed on the fact that there really was at Harvard a program to educate Native Americans.
Perhaps "Witness to Caleb's Crossing" might have fit better as the book is portrayed as a series of diary entries made by a Puritan girl whose chance meeting with an American Indian boy set in motion the action of the book that covers the next 50 or 60 years.Not bad.
Again, I see connection with Australia in this.Through Bethia we also see the role of women in puritan society, which brings me to my earlier comment about being glad to live in the 20th century.
We see Bethia’s desires and wants subsumed to accommodate those of the male patriarchs in her family.In some ways this feels more like a book about Bethia than about Caleb, and I wondered why it was written this way.
But I also liked Bethia’s strengthening of understanding of and connection to the physical environment, through Caleb’s influence.This was a wonderful book.
On the positive side, Brooks has meticulously constructed the highly detailed and imagined colonial world of the narrator, Bethia Mayfield.
As a woman, Bethia chafes at the religious and social constraints of this world.
The language construct flavors this novel with authenticity and I appreciated the masterful accomplishment of creating a serious historical novel.Ostensibly, the core of this novel is about Caleb Cheeshahteaumuck, born around 1646, a member of the Wopanaak tribe of Noepe (Martha’s Vineyard), and the first American Indian to graduate from Harvard College.
I was drawn to the book because I was interested in his story, but really, it is all about Bethia.

Caleb's Crossing is a novel of opposites, the wild yet peaceful island life lived by the Mayfield family and their friends and cohorts, governed by God but ruled with love (most of the time) surrounded by the sea, fields, and the unchanged lands belonging to the Indians.
This story is narrated by Bethia Mayfield, first a young girl, then a young woman, who chaffs at the limitations placed on women of her time.
The voice of Bethia is so strong and drew me right in.I first heard a little read at our writing group and was hooked even then.
I rarely read historical fiction but admit I am a fan of the books of Geraldine Brooks and liked them all in particular March.
This tells the story of Bethia Mayfield a minister's daughter who has an active mind, intelligence and love of learning,she is not, because of her gender, allowed to use to its fullest capacity and her interaction with Caleb Cheeshahteaumauk, the first native American to graduate from Harvard College.
I cried at the end and I can tell I will be thinking of the characters for a long time to come.
Bethia writes of the toils of her hard life and I wish I could take on the chores of my life with her same acceptance and faith in God. There were so many male characters in her life, some got under my skin, some made me smile, and some made me a little hot.
I think I was hoping she would end up with someone different though.
Caleb's Crossing by Geraldine Brooks is intelligently written and emotionally moving.
Based on what little there is, Brooks weaves her story around the known history of that time and place through the narration of an imagined young girl who meets Caleb when they are both nearly children and whose lives become intertwined.I loved everything about this book.
This history was fascinating but never obtrusive-everything about this book is beautifully crafted and the story both moving and engaging.
And if some of what I wished had happened did not...well, that speaks to the truth of the time and Brooks' imagining of it.A fine story, beautifully written.
The author is a favorite of mine and I was looking forward to the book.The writing is very good, clear and vivid.
I just found that I didn't care much about them.I read more than half this book before I put it down.There was also an undercurrent of some kind in the story that I didn't like.
It was like I kept getting a whiff of something that kept pulling me out of the story.
Also, I am Native American on my dad's side of the family and there is always something 'unauthentic' to me based on my personal family experience, about stories dealing with Native Americans, no matter who writes them.
Everybody knows a little something about the pilgrims and somehow the witch hunts came about...and during all that time there was some sort of tension/friendship with the native Americans?
After reading this I finally understand the relationship between the early british and the true americans.
Not only did I learn by reading this book, I was also completely hooked by the struggles of the main character Bethia who's burden, like every other woman of that time, is silence.
But Bethia the minister's daughter is crafty and knows how to get what she craves- knowledge.
Good pick school, I can't understand why the summer reading is so enjoyable.
That being said, the title of this book and the description made it seem like this book would be entirely about the first Native American person to go to Harvard, Caleb.
There were also other things discussing prejudice towards both women and Native American at this time, which I found interesting to read as a woman.
But I did like reading about Caleb's relationship with another Native American boy named Joel.
I did enjoy this book and felt it was interesting and informative but there were some things that made me not like it.
Great book and even more interesting considering I have lived in Massachusetts my entire life so the cities and towns referenced in this book are all familiar to me as well as the various Indian tribes.Mixed emotions reading this including anger over how women were discounted in the past (1600s in this instance).
Or have they none?"Or had they some, but with our Queen is't gone?"Let such as say our sex is void of reason,"Know tis a slander now but once was treason."From The Tenth Muse by Anne Bradstreet: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2...
Oh.Em. Gee. I am hooked and I am only on page 27...Finished this absorbing story last night. Thoughtful and SO closely observed. Stunning writing. Wonderful narrator. Goodness. LOVED IT.
There is no doubt that Geraldine Brooks is a great author, but for some reason the characters in this one failed to engage me.
These books (I haven’t read her first yet) give a strong sense of an author who loves to do the research, turning it into enjoyable fiction, passing her passion on to the reader.That being said, I don’t feel Brooks has yet returned to the same ethically complex and emotional charged high ground that won her the Pulitzer for March.
The narrator of the story is Bethia, a local Vineyard girl whose minister father is trying to bring Puritanism and Christianity to the Wampanoag.
4) Brooks currently lives on Martha's Vineyard and has gone on imaginative time travels as Bethia, and 5) Other possibilities I haven't imagined?Whatever her motivation, it was interesting to inhabit the island centuries ago, interesting to eavesdrop on the conversations between a white woman and a native American man -- each trying to forge an identity and a destiny before God, nature and their fellow humans, and interesting to walk through the sites of learning they inhabited: the wilds of Martha's Vineyard, the hearth, the boarding school, the early classrooms at Harvard.
