https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/96977.Castle_Roogna
One of my favorites in the series! I love how Dor tells Irene it's okay to be a women and that nothing is wrong it it. I Iove how many male characters recognize the neo sorcerous' power as fully Magician status while others won't. While this book does have some sexist characters it's not sexist, it's just funny. On to the 4th installment! Loving this silly trope on fantasy literature.
These books continue to be air headed fun.
I love the fact that Anthony seems to share Heinlein's attitudes toward sex and nudity but with an underlying sense of moral responsibility.Bink, the hero of the first two books, was forever being tempted but turned away to remain true to his fiancé in book one.
When that fiancé turned from him, Bink fell in love with and finally married the mysterious Camelion.
In book 2, The Source of Magic, we find Bink married but still running from temptation.
Binks son Dor is sent on a mission to find an elixir for Millie the Ghost. He has to go back in time, 800 years, to do this. His adventure starts by going through a tapestry, and finding himself in a barbarians body. He teams up with a huge spider by the name of Jumper. The elixir he is to find will bring Jonathan the Zombie, back to life, for Millie the Ghost. In all this is a fun story, and Dor's magic talent of making inanimate objects talk brings a lot of humor to this book.
Xanth is what inspired me to read as a young adult, and continues to deliver the same with ever new book! I love em all.
I'm going to miss Bink's misadventures, but Dor's are definitely at least as good. Like father, like son.
But there are far too many brilliantly written life-changing novels out there for me to continue to waste time on Piers Anthony's fantastical drivel.
As an example, I was highlighting particularly sexist sentences and I came across this little gem (context: main character has just killed humanoid creatures for first time in his life): "He had heard of girls getting upset when they lose their virginities, and now he had an inkling what it felt like." ?????These books were written in the late seventies/early eighties, but even for this time are still appallingly ill-informed.
Piers Anthony clearly thinks very little of women, believing them to be weak-willed and only existing to be ogled and impregnated.
I first read it when I was 11 (the second time at 13), so Dor was easy to relate to.The story is this: Dor has just reached the age where he does not need a nanny anymore and yet he cares deeply about his nanny and wants to do something nice for her.
What's more, nobody knows how she died.So using Magic, Dor travels back in time to when Millie was alive in order to find out.
This also produces an interesting dynamic like that seen in Back to the Future (Part 1, though the story also predates that) as Dor is (apparently) an adult who is introduced to a young and very much alive Millie, who has always been a maternal figure to him.
To prove himself, Magician Dor volunteers to get the potion that can restore Jonathan to full life.
But he has to go back through time to do it, to a peril-haunted, ancient Xanth, where danger lurks at every turn....
OK, let me just say, I am terrified of spiders.
A GIANT spider!
This was the first Xanth book I ever read, because I didn't realize at the time that this was a continuing series, or that this was the third book in the series.
I found myself fascinated with Xanth, with the characters, and I fell in love with Dor!
I love how the writer wrote about Xanth as it was 800-ish years before Dor's time.
Because, after the 800 year mark of Dor's adventure in the past, maaaayyyyybe there's some sort equivalent as to the technology there?
Like, that would be the equivalent of the change of time outside of Xanth in comparison with where King Trent was during his exile?
I do not approve of the mentions (or interjections) of sex, especially from the 11 year-old-character's narrative, but I did love how Dor and Irene were brought together at the end.
Dor, Bink and Chameleon's child, is twelve years old, with a Magician level talent that makes others uncomfortable.
As Millie is now Dor's nanny, he is closer to her than others, and is thereby more effected by her magical talent.So, to help him learn about life, as well as prepare him to be able to take the throne of Xanth in the future, Dor is sent on a journey to the past.
His goal, to get a magic elixir from the Zombie King that will allow him to bring a zombie, Jonathan, back to life for Millie.
So this was another of my favorites as a kid.
I just loved the fact that the Castle had, in its own way, a personality and mind of its own.
Dor is kind of a brat in the beginning of the book, but turns out to be a likable kid, and the other characters are a lot of fun.
There's Anthony's usual amount of smut-treating women as objects/inferior creatures - but not as much as in most of his books, by a long short.It definitely wasn't as enjoyable as when I was in the forth grade, let me tell you I loved those books then.
Castle Roogna is about a boy named Dor(who is the child of Bink)and how he goes on a quest to see the Zombie Master so he can get a restorative potion to restore Millie the former ghost's love Johnathan.
However the Zombie Master lived eight centuries ago.
So now Dor must go back in time, to the fourth wave when the king was King Roogna.
My favorite part is when he incounters Jumper, a giant spider who helps him all along his quest.
This is by far my favorite book in this entire series.
It provides a balance to the book.
While I am willing to put up with a wide range of literary misogyny (rather inherent in the genre when you read older fantasy,) the constant sexual thoughts of the twelve year old boy in this book is a little awkward. As usual, I love the world and the plot, I just have a hard time forgiving Millie the Maid for being an entirely useless character and Dor's incessant internal manhood monologues too.
It was just awesome
Much better than the last book! I'm enjoying re-reading the series.
Dor is an IDIOT! I had predicted who Jonathon was by page 158! It was confirmed for me by 173. I remember being so frustrated with the dramatic irony that it made this book all the better!
Excellent, clever, imaginative and touching. One of his best.
This is one of my favorites. Who can resist a giant heroic spider!
While his parents are in Mundania on the King's business, King Trent decides to test the twelve year old Dor by assigning to him a daring quest - to restore to life the zombie companion of his nurse and one-time ghost, the maid Millie.
With the help of the Good Magician Murphy, Dor travels 800 years into the past, in the company of a giant spider, to meet with the only magician who can instruct Dor on how to restore the undead Jonathan - the Zombie Master.Dor discovers himself to be in Xanth at a momentous time in its history while inhibiting the body of a much older and stronger man.
I found it to be very imaginative and well written.
Piers Anthony is a big name in his genre, but this is the first of his books that I have read.
There is not a word lost, not a mundane detail in this book.
This story was original and thoroughly entertaining.
Had her character been better written, I would have appreciated her more.
It is true that there was an overabundance of buxom buties in this story, but it did not take away from the plot or from the growing up Dor had to do.
Overall, I did enjoy the book and would read it again.
So, the third book of the Xanth series (so far) I've liked the best.
The plot line was interesting, the characters likable (I rather dislike Bink of the first two books).
Confusing.Never really did laugh out loud reading any of the Xanth books.
(The first two was like that, quest goes on and on, lotsa turns and interactions, complications, and whatnots) Everything did happen for a reason more or less, not just to fill in the blanks whilst moving from point A to B.Overall, I liked it, but it was not awesome and I do not know whether I'll continue to read on the rest of the series' books.
I'll open this review with a quote relevant to the Xanth novel series; "All things make sense; you just have to fathom how they make sense." -Piers AnthonyWhat an absolutely INCREDIBLE author Piers Anthony is.
Such a classic approach to the elves, griffins & goblins type of fantasy, Anthony twists in puns galore along with sharp-tongued, quick thinking characters to create the most loveable stories for any audience.Castle Roogna is a novel that follows a young Dor, a magician with a peculiar talent for talking to inanimate objects, on his mission to find Millie the Ghost an elixir.
I liked the character of Jumper.Con: Once again, extremely sexist.
But it's light entertainment, and I'm not reading this to obtain my sense of morality.Also: I saw the plot resolution with Millie the ghost and Jonathan the Zombie coming after only the first 1/3 of the book, so the final revelation of the book was no surprise.
However, there were also many other little twists that Piers Anthony deftly tied up at the end that I didn't see coming.Worth reading - unique system of magic, funny without being annoying, and a quick diversion from other more hefty reads you may be working on.
Castle Roogna is a magical story filled with time travel and always amazing puns.Dor is the son of Bink and Chameleon, a full fledged wizard Dor is most likely the next to inherit the crown.
Able to talk to any nonliving thing few secrets are kept from Dor. I really liked Dor, while he was like his father in Bink some ways it was clear Dor was struggling to find his own path and grow into his own man.
It fit with the way the story flowed and how things work in Xanth.
Like other Xanth stories the puns were ever present and always entertaining.
Castle RoognaThe 3rd Xanth NovelThis is a third Xanth novel. Castle Roogna. This book is about a magical land named Xanth. Dor is trying to do something good for someone he knows because trent, the king of Xanth, told him to. Dor is about to be king. He needs to go back in time to find the Zombie Boss to bring millie the maid’s zombie boyfriend back to life. If you like magic, and restrictions, I advise looking at this book. It has lots of magic, and is very realistic to be a magical land. It’s
Castle RoognaThe 3rd Xanth NovelThis is a third Xanth novel.
This book is about a magical land named Xanth.
Dor is trying to do something good for someone he knows because trent, the king of Xanth, told him to.
Dor is about to be king.
If you like magic, and restrictions, I advise looking at this book.
This is the third book of all Xanth.
There are more books than just this one, so I am so excited to start reading Centaur Aisle, The 4th Xanth novel.
I enjoy the puns and silliness of the book, as well as the gore and quest objective.
I didn't particularly like how Millie was the silly air-headed maiden.
I liked her when she was sweet, mature, and a strong young (ish) women.
I DO like the character Dor plays in this, as the young, experienced kid expected to play the role of a grown-up hero.
And I love Jumper.I found the first 2 books to be somewhat dull and dragging, so I liked this book a lot.
I love the puns and humor of Piers Anthony.
I've really like this series so far and this book was definitely a good one...
it took me a little bit to get into it because unlike the previous books about Bink this one is about his son Dor and so you had to go through introductions and getting to know him and he's basically a wimpy 12 year old boy which I really can't relate to so I had some trouble with that until he finally decides to go off on his adventure to become a man...
it was funny and adventurous and helped to explain a lot about the developing of Xanth and over all a great edition to the Xanth series
I do love traveling the land of Xanth.
Castle Roogna is the third in the series and follows Dor, a twelve-year-old boy in line for the throne.
Dor is sent on a quest by the Good Magician to find a way to restore life toJonathan, a zombie.
On his journey, Dor meets some wonderful characters, including Jumper, giant spider, King Roogna, Millie the maid, and the Zombie Master.
I would recommend this book for someone who wants something fun and easy.
These Xanth books are not what I would by any means call "deep" but they are full of adventure and fantastic characters.
Castle Roogna is the third book in the magic world of Xanth, where the magic side is much more cartoon like and the mundane like normal life.
Here we have a story of a boy growing up, by being sent back 800 years into Xanth past to learn a number of adult lessons during a time whenmagic was much less refined and mundane intrudes far more into the magic land.A light read, with a decidedly cartoon element to the magic world, but with some easily identified lessons of the difference between how adults and children think.
I approached this series seemingly secure in the knowledge that so many people in my high school class adored it - mostly the males. Now I know why. I also have some insight into why the vast majority of those males treated females like trash.What sad, misogynistic shit these books are. I forced my way through the first three and that's as far as I'm willing to go. I wouldn't recommend these books to anyone and I deeply regret suggesting them as possible reading for my son. I'll be correcting that as soon as I leave this site.
