https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1100330.Celtic_Heritage
On the one hand, Gulliver's Travels; on the other hand, the Voyage of Brendan.
On the one hand, excerpts from the matter of Arthur; on the other hand, the Mabinogion.
That interest in the literature grew into a desire to learn about the culture, which in turn grew into an interest in serious historical study, which set the course for my life.It's definitely not for everyone: it's a scholarly work and is dense even when skimming.
As a result, though, it doesn't deal with an enormous amount of fanciful, unfounded speculation and is a solid starting point for a study of Celtic literature.
I read this probably not long after it was re-issued in 1989. I remember it as giving a deep insight into the pagan Celtic life and mind-set, relying heavily on the limited amount of Celtic literature that remains to us and within that most heavily on the Irish works as having been least Romanised/Christianised but also delving into historical and archaeological findings.I have no idea how the scholarship stands up to current scrutiny.
This is a good book but not a light book. Alwyn and Brinley Rees analyse and classify the ancient myths and tales of Ireland and Wales. They compare the myths to those of India and sometimes to Aztec myths. I like the fact that they speak of the Druids in their relationship to myth and story, but they do not pretend that they know their religion, as some writers do.
Not only do you get most of the important mythological cycles of the Celts, you get to have them put into context with Celtic society. As a starter book, for someone with lots of Celtic knowledge looking for a way to combine it, or for someone who wants to read just one, all round, great book on Celtic myth and life, it's perfect.
I am grateful to the neo-druids who recommended this book, one of the best on this topic which suggests parallels and connections between the Celtic and other ancient civilizations
Way too deep for me at times, it still offered some interesting thoughts on the Celtic mythology and how it relates to other world mythologies. The connections made between Celtic and Indian mythology I found particularly intriguing. Definitely more a book for the scholar than the moderately interested reader.
I've read it in Russian and was captivated by it. It's not strictly a connected narrative, like many other Russian retellings (we do have gorgeous editions of Cetlic myths), but it's an extensive overall review of all Irish mythological cycles. This is a desk book for any lover of Celtic myths, that's for sure.
We read this book as part of an Ancient Celtic Studies Discussion Group that I run in real life. It took a long time to get through, but it was well worth the effort. The book is chalk-full of information about the Iron-Age Celts, what little there is. Rees and Rees did a great job of analyzing the information they did have and making conclusions based upon the scholarship of the time.
This was our first book of the Celtic Book Discussion group I belong to. It took us almost a year to get through it. It is chock full of information and I learned a great deal from the book. However, it was/is a very dry read.
Please read my review on my blog:Celtic Heritage: Ancient Tradition in Ireland and Wales
Rather more like a textbook ,lots of research matrial for the student of celtic lore.I expected just stories and the book is a bit over my head.
Awesome book with folklore, prayers, and history.
Unfinished (on page 31). Will continue reading soon.
Pretty good, and very readable! It draws heavily on parallels with Hindu mythology, and I would like to see some discussion of the arguments for and against that as well.
Fine if you want a light, general glossing-over of the topic. Otherwise, lacks depth as well as a good bibliography.
Extremely well written and packed with information, but also very dense. Definitely NOT light reading. Still if you're into this sort of thing (and I am) it's a great read.
Anyone interested in our Celtic Heritage should read this as it's both scolarly and easy to read. A very full account. Highly recommended
