https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10215349-the-immortal-rules
So Allie is an orphaned teenager in a dystopian fantasy where people are enslaved by vampire masters. Then she gets turned into a vampire and struggles with the morality of being a monster.So at first I was like.But then she was like.A comparable representation on the scale of awesomeness - not a literal depiction.And then I was like.Right away from the beginning of the novel Allie was pretty ass kicking.And then Kanin the vampire showed up and I was like.Yeah, sure. Whatevs.But then he was like
So Allie is an orphaned teenager in a dystopian fan­tasy where peo­ple are enslaved by vam­pire mas­ters.
Then she gets turned into a vam­pire and strug­gles with the moral­ity of being a monster.So at first I was like.But then she was like.A com­pa­ra­ble rep­re­sen­ta­tion on the scale of awe­some­ness - not a lit­eral depiction.And then I was like.Right away from the begin­ning of the novel Allie was pretty ass kicking.And then Kanin the vam­pire showed up and I was like.Yeah, sure.
Julie Kagawa has already mastered faeries, now she's doing vamps too? This is awesome!
The Immortal Rules tells the story of Allison Sekemoto living in a future where most of the human population was killed by a disease called Red Lung.
She's always thought being a human was hard, but she quickly learns that being a vampire isn't exactly a walk in the park either, especially when you're wanted.The best thing I loved about The Immortal Rules were the vampires.
Because this is another thing I love about Kagawa: Her action scenes and endings are kick-ass.
I'm not lying when I say the second half saved this book.Characters:In the beginning I really disliked Allie.
While I was initially a little disappointed that the love interest was human, I couldn't help but acknowledge that the romance served as a powerful vehicle for Allie's journey to self-actualization.But while Allie was spellbinding as the protagonist, Kagawa managed to avoid the rookie mistake of making her overshadow all of the secondary characters.
I also loved the way Kagawa played with power and gender roles in the book.
In fact, Kagawa makes it subtly but unmistakably clear that while Allie has the physical (and occassionally moral) superiority, Zeke's humanity and faith and generosity of spirit are their own kind of power.
3.5I've been reluctant to start a Julie Kagawa book ever since I heard the heroine of her Fey series described as "weak" and "constantly in need of saving", they're simply not the kind of heroines I like to read about. However, there was something in me that just couldn't ignore this whole dystopia + vampires thing she's got going on here. I guess it doesn't matter how many shitty paranormal books I read, or how much I hate Twilight, I think I'll always be that girl who grew up on Buffy - give
I guess it doesn't matter how many shitty paranormal books I read, or how much I hate Twilight, I think I'll always be that girl who grew up on Buffy - give me mean vampires and a spunky heroine any day.I have to say that The Immortal Rules does have a lot going for it, I enjoyed it a lot, especially the beginning and end parts.
but Kagawa doesn't seem to have a problem with Allison being a bit of a controversial and morally-questionable character, so why was this needed?
Vampires decide to "come out" and take over, fulfilling the role of the tyrannical government.Humans exist as "pets" and must donate blood.
I won't go too much into it because this is a book probably most of my friends have already read - and if you haven't, then spoilers.It has a nice goth moody vibe and even reminds me of The Walking Dead a bit because there are vampires infected with the virus called "rabids" who are like slightly more intelligent zombies.I really liked Kanin, Allison's mentor.
The section with the human group Allison ended up with was kind of meh.
The crazy vampire gang leader king was entertaining.
Sadly, none of it really left an impression on me.One of the most disappointing things about Kagawa's novel is that, rather than be a new entity unto itself, it seems a patchwork creation of plot elements that have been explored in other vampire-centric stories.
Believe me, I wanted to love Allie as a character, as a strong heroine surviving as best she could in a crummy world -- but I felt maneuvered to like her, especially with the lack of any other likable or notable female characters.With all that being said, I think that people who enjoy vampire novels, post-apocalyptic novels, or both will likely come away liking The Immortal Rules, even despite its flaws and the similarities to other post-apocalyptic tales.
This book is one of my new favorites for the year.If you think you can't read another vampire book for a while because you are sick of the unoriginal plots and characters that have been around lately you are like me.
For starters, vampires rule the world in this story.
Vampires have the control and even reading is illegal!
When she is attacked one night she has to decide if she will become a vampire herself.This book surprised and impressed me.
As soon as you start reading you will be in this desperate world, and feel the hopelessness of this place ruled by vampires.
Indeed after having loved her fairy land in The Iron King (which is much-hated by many of my friends, but what can I say, I loved it and I'm not even ashamed), again I felt myself completely immerged and eager to learn more about the violent and merciless world we discover here.
You know, he's the kind of character whose comments can bring a real smile on your face, who we can't help but want to both hug and shake a little ➸ And that's what Allison felt, and if I wasn't already a fan of her, I would have loved her for that.
I am absolutely obsessed with Jackal!3,5/5⭐So, where to start?
Right away I have to say that if I read this six years ago, I would have been ABSOLUTELY ecstatic.
- I was actually pretty okay with Allison; she was an interesting main character.
They have zero survival skills, and it seems like pure luck until Allison joined.
And you want me to believe that they were okay for over three years?- The Ruth disliking Allison was pretty cheap.
(hide spoiler)]- These people, including the children, are running for years but they still have no idea when to keep quiet?- I hate Zeke!
I was hoping Allison would somehow explore these vampire cities, spend some time discovering New Covington and the life inside the walls.
Julie Kagawa is undoubtedly a talented writer and I could tell she put much thought into her worldbuilding (especially the first part), but it’s the little things that make a book and in my opinion, she failed in polishing those details, which ruined the story for me to some extent.
I would have loved to see a relationship between Allison and Kanin, the vampire who turned her, instead.
So in as much as I admire her writing, her storylines did not interest me, and even though it's been released for awhile, I resisted reading it because of my previous history with her books.
This ranks among the best YA books I've ever read.Allison---what a character.
Julie Kagawa has a kack for writing female characters that don't suck (besides that annoying girl in The Lost Prince), and Allison is no different.
She is so strong, she is a survivor, and she has to be, given where she has grown up.
Also, not completely strong, she has a soft spot, especially for strays.
Full review posted on my blog.Julie Kagawa, I am in love with you.And I LOVE THIS BOOK SO MUCH ARGH.
“You are a monster.” Kanin’s deep voice droned in my head again, as I forced myself to move, to walk away. “You will always be a monster, there is no turning back from it. But what type of monster you become is entirely up to you.”  Wow! I didn't expect this, but I really liked this book, because it has made me out of my reading slump and that is a goal !.:D. I'm very happy!.It is my first book of Julie Kagawa and I've been delighted by its so fluid and entertaining way of writing, also I like
I'm very happy!.It is my first book of Julie Kagawa and I've been delighted by its so fluid and entertaining way of writing, also I liked how incredible is the dystopian world where the story unfolds, the author has certainly managed to explain everything in a big way!The way in which Kagawa introduce to the vampires within the plot is brilliant, unique and different.I was looking for a reading of vampires and nothing seemed convince me until I met The Immortal Rules and I read the description and I knew I had to read it.
You sly dog!I love this so much if I knew where you live, I'd drive whatever amount of miles to give you a hug.
A huge, gigantic, love-filled hug.
Like this:But I will just settle for an imaginary one for now; until I can find her address, of course ;)If  anyone  can bring back vampires from slow, painful, death that Meyer inflicted on them; it's Kagawa.
:DEDIT: So, I read Iron Knight and Kagawa had a couple pages of this book in there!
Vampires are actually fucking ugly, soulless, beings, and the MC is actually a badass who, right away, fights for her life and isn't a twit!
I LOVE YOU KAGAWA!
But all this changes when she leaves the city as a vampire herself, and finds a group of people who are looking for a “promised land.” She finds something worth living for with these people, and though not all of them accept her, she understands them, because she used to be just like them.
But most of the fey series fans who have read this book love it, so it may just be me.
I would recommend it to fans of Kagawa’s fey series, and other people who are tired of vampire books.
Because I think this is a vampire book that we readers have been looking for.
I hated the vampires; everything about them—their city, their pets, their domination of the human race—I despised with my entire being.
Choosing to live, to survive, she accepted what she despised the most - to be a vampire.
The big three in this whole story are Allie, Kanin & Zeke.
So, Allie is a mortal who gets torn apart by rabid and turned afterward into a vampire by Kanin.
Allie's choice to become vampire, even though she never wanted to be one, was driven by her desire to survive, even as a dead immortal.
The Oh-the-great-one of the story, also the one who successfully converted Allie to vampire.
Quotes pulled from the ARC may be incorrect and may be subject to change.Allison lives in a world where a virus has decimated the human population, and vampires rule the city.
(Soulless infected vampires and humans that kill everything in their path.Think zombies).
Always thirsty, hungry for human blood Allison learns to latch on as much of her humanity as she can.
Clever plot direction, character development and enough action to keep me off the edge of my seat!I just fell in love with Allison.
Allison was such a kick-ass kind of character!
In Dawn of Eden we are introduced to how the apocalypse came to be, we can see what happened and why the world is the way it is in The Immortal Rules, also I think that it gives us a better understanding of the rabid vampires.I do recommend reading the novella before this first book, it’s worth it, it’s quite short so it won’t take you more than three hours and the story grips you instantaneously.
READ IT!My Reviews in the Blood of Eden Series:Book 0.5: Dawn of EdenBook 1: The Immortal RulesBook 2: Eternity CureBook 2.5: Zeke's Letter to Allie Book 3: The Forever Song
The world she created on this book was entirely different from the world she created in her Iron Fey series but equally creative and real.Allie would have to be one of the most kick-ass heroines I’ve ever read.
A little romance is okay to keep the readers interested and The Immortal Rules has the right amount of action and romance which I suuuper LOVED!One other thing I liked was the setting of the book which was New Covington.
But I didn't have to be a monster.” A vampire has no heart beat, no matter how hard they try to cling on their humanity, in the end they will remain same, some bloodsucking monsters.Days of Darkness and BloodAfter her blockbuster epic fantasy The Iron Fey series, Julie Kagawa introduces to a vampire infested futuristic world where everything is on ruin and dominated by those bloodsucking creatures.
I also knew that The Immortal Rules was a vampire dystopian, so I was prepared for kind of a Hunger-Games-meets-Twilight book.Um, no.I probably should have gathered from the creepy cover (that I still don’t like, even though I now understand it) that this book was going to be darker than that.
It’s the internal struggle between man (or in this case, woman) and monster, set in a world where plague has decimated humanity and horrifying creatures like this (but scarier) roam the planet.The PlotIn a future world where plague has wiped out most of the human population, vampires rule supreme.
She meets up with a small group of humans searching for something impossible — a city without vampires.
“It was almost better to be caught by the hungry, soulless vampires; the most they would probably do was drink your blood and leave you to die. Humans were capable of far, far worse.” I didn't expect this to be so good.I think most people's expectations of "vampire books" fall somewhere along the lines of angsty teen romance, love triangle, or, if you've read the Vampire Academy series, high school for vampires. I'm ashamed to say I thought the same way. At the most, I expected some silly enter
I loved that it was set in a dystopian world, but instead of the usual evil government, the dictators of this world were vampires.Allison is a scavenger who lost her family and is trying to survive in the Fringe.
I loved Allison and the grittiness of this book.
This world was brutal, and I got dragged into it as Allison learned how to survive as both a human and a vampire.A bit of an apocalypse, a bit of a dark paranormal, this book was just so good.
Julie Kagawa has done it all over again.Things you will like in this book: The main character Allison Sekemoto.
Needless to say there is a lot of characters you will find yourself loving in The Immortal Rules, and some others that you will love to hate (oh Ruth, I am talking about you little *&^%$).The one thing that did pop into my head as I read the book was The Walking Dead series.
BUT WITH BLOOD AND A KICK ASS HEROINE WITH A WEAPON WHO KNOWS HOW TO WIELD IT!The book does have a lot of walking and surviving, but it's packed with action.
If you want to read a book that deals with how to be human when one becomes a monster and the internal struggles to stay human, I highly recommend The Immortal Rules. This series challenges the meaning of being human in the world of monsters and whether or not to succumb to the monster inside. This series will rip your heart out. You'll meet a diverse cast of characters with their own secrets and internal battles. It's been 2 years since I've finished this series and I can't stop thinking about it.
LoLI know I’m babbling, but before I start this review I need to show you guys something.This is what a kick ass Asian girl with a katana looks like:[image error].Don’t be fooled by the cover.
Ok, that’s not that original, but it has all the things I love in a book: dystopian society + vamps + swords + kick ass lead character + crosstar lovers +internal struggle + desperate plans to save human kind + hopeless hope = me happy as a clam..
Considerations - So, I’ve read some reviews before I read it and was a little wary that I may cry like a baby in some parts of the book.
There's a reason why the world loves Julie Kagawa and this is IT.
The only things that remain constant are Julie's talents for writing, fantastic world-building, and creating a cast of realistic characters that you'll be handing your heart to before you know it (like Kanin and Caleb!).The Immortal Rules is set in a world where vampires dominate and humans have the choice to either be well-fed blood sources or starving Unregistereds.
Vampire stories may be a dime a dozen nowadays, but Julie proves that there's still hope for originality in the bunch.
This book is written by Julie Kagawa.
But what type of monster you become is entirely up to you."In a world ruled by vampires, one girl challenges her immortality while striving to keep her humanity, even if everything inside her wants to be a monster...There is only one way to describe Julie Kagawa's writing.
It felt so great to start a new vampire series again and it's even greater that it's from one of my all time favorite authors.The Immortal Rules is a dark unflinching story about survival.
In this story everyone- human or vampire- is fighting for any kind of existence.
April 4th, 2017:I will never stop loving these books.---------------------------------------------------------------------Review after re-reading from May 6th-8th 2013:Just as awesome the second time around!
One that will make us question them all over again." Julie Kagawa became one of my favourite authors after reading just one of her books - which was The Iron King.
We've all read at least one book where in the main couple one was human and the other a vampire, right?
Yes, Allie tries to push Zeke away because she's a vampire and it's not a good idea for the two of them, but it wasn't the same as other books.
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || Pinterest🎃 Read for the Unapologetic Romance Readers  Halloween 2017 Reading Challenge  for the category of: a post-apocalyptic romance 🎃 Far too often, YA novels lauded for their 'strong female characters' have me throwing the book across the room in frustration and asking, loudly and rhetorically, "IN WHAT UNIVERSE?"Not THE IMMORTAL RULES.Allison Sekemoto is a human living in a city ruled by vampires. A wall separates them from zombies ("rabids")
for the category of: a post-apocalyptic romance 🎃 Far too often, YA novels lauded for their 'strong female characters' have me throwing the book across the room in frustration and asking, loudly and rhetorically, "IN WHAT UNIVERSE?"Not THE IMMORTAL RULES.Allison Sekemoto is a human living in a city ruled by vampires.
I actually like THE IMMORTAL RULES a lot better, though, as Allie is far more likable, the world-building is much more consistent, and the love interests - Ezekiel and, I suspect, Kanin - are much nicer, and more interesting, than the angel dude was in ANGELFALL.I really can't wait to read the next book (which I own- what would I do if I didn't?
