https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/439471.Secret_Water
It shifts about unpredictably, and the only cross word comes from Susan, when Roger rushes the bleeding Bridget back to the camp site, but it's there, rippling under the surface, eddying like the water around the island.
Walkers vs the Navy, exploring vs war, savages vs explorers, the Mastadon's internal conflicts, John and Susan vs Titty and Roger ...And at the centre of it all is Bridget, properly on-stage for the first time.
The illustrations are good, too - Ransome is better at scenes than figures, and of course there are the maps.
I love love love every book in this series, and this one is no exception! The Walker children are marooned on an island, and they explore their surroundings, carefully mapping out the terrain. But the local savage tribe of Eels wants them gone, and the explorers have to fight a brutal war when one of their own is captured. It’s all good fun and games! I love every chapter, and every delightful character!
The characters are largely the same as they were in the previous books, and I still found John to be annoying because half the time he seems to be saying "Shut up" to younger brother Roger (Roger was always my favourite character, and John just always comes across as the bossy older brother who wants to be in control).In this book, there is an early indication that the island is inhabited by savages, which at first made me think there was going to be a more Robinson Crusoe-style adventure, and the savages' presence is made felt at first by the appearance of a mysterious totem pole in the Swallows' camp.While the subject of savages might sound a bit strong for a kids' novel, once you remember that this story is set just off the English coast, and that you realise that all the "savages" are in fact kids playing a game, this doesn't seem particularly sinister at all, despite the fact that Bridget becomes obsessed with becoming a human sacrifice.
When I saw Secret Water sitting on the new book shelf at the library I snatched it up, especially since I remember it being one of my favorites.And, oh my friends, I love this book.
There were some nice additions to the regular gang on this one as well.All in all, I was somewhat startled by how well this held up to a re-read.
This is Arthur Ransome after all.(And Nancy...you guys I still love Nancy so much.)Now I'm thinking a grand S&A re-read is in order.Book source: public libraryBook information: Godine, 2005 (first published 1939)
another excellent adventure with the crew of the Swallow including - finally - Bridgit aka Vicky (yaay) and the Amazons (three million cheers) and some new friends the Eeels (woo hoo)Way back between the wars children had a lot more leeway to do stuff on their own including building fires and camping overnight for days on end without adult supervision.
As usual it's based near water, this time the Walker children are "marooned" by their parents (holiday curtailed due to some important stuff at the Admiralty) on an island with a blank map.
As a child these were my favourite books, I loved stories of adventure and my family holidayed in the English Lake District where these books are set so I knew the places they visited.Whilst on holiday I would imagine meeting the Swallows and Amazons on every lake.
At school my friends and I would play Swallows and Amazons.
My best friend Sarah and I, being the only ones who were truly obsessed by the books would take charge and we would, of course, be the Amazons.
I found and read the Swallows and Amazons series in my early 20s. I am only sorry I did not find them earlier. Stories of the family's summer adventures are beautifully written, and encourage responsible and creative living. Self reliance, intelligent reasoning skills, and strong imagination with these children provide an excellent backdrop for this series of books, as well as strong roll-models for any youngsters reading them.
This one never really worked for me.The sudden change in the Nancy character I could understand as John comes across as a total bore, perhaps with reason. It was just that the whole story didn't seem to have the normal Ransome ' I must read the next chapter ' feeling that I normally got when I first read it. It got to the point that I couldn't care less about what happened to any of them!
I think this was once one of my favourites, but it is, on reading as an adult, a little tainted by some serious colonial-era racism!
In the end, it's not clear that there is any point to the mapping, except that the task is completed and Daddy approves.
It sounds for all the world like MI6 sending off a spy to check out terrain ahead of a war or at least some international tension.
In the end, the job is indeed done and Daddy-the-spymaster is content -- but what happens to the map?
The children don't seem to care much once the map is delivered; their portion of the operation is finished.
But the story is filled with the quiet drama of boats, tidal waters, and the perils of children on their own.
Growing up the Swallows and Amazons series by Arthur Ransome was one of my favorite series. When I decided to re-read it as an adult I was worried that it would not stand the test of time. I was delighted to find that in general found it just as enjoyable now as I did as a child. The characters, writing style and adventures are great and I truly enjoyed the series.
A wonderful old fashioned feel good story of children adventuring in a totally different time from our own. Brilliant
One of the best of the series - a beautifully constructed and paced tale that unfolds like a paper flower.
4.5
T - LDPlaceholder
Not as exciting as the previous superb #7, but another engaging rendition of the Swallows and Amazons continued boating and camping adventures.
I have criticism for only a couple aspects where the new characters are depicted with not as much depth as previous individuals, and hauling the poor cat around seems rather abusive although meant as a harmless part of the fun.
Otherwise, in our social media culture this is a fine depiction of kids playing closely together and inherently understanding what they are playing at.
This demonstrates nicely that effective communication and positive standards of behavior translate to good times.
This review also appears on my blog, Read-at-Home Mom.After the real-life adventure of the Walkers in We Didn’t Mean to go to Sea, it was hard for me to imagine how Arthur Ransome could continue to write exciting stories about these characters.
Not long after, the Walkers are joined by the Blacketts, as well as a new group of “savages”, the Eels, who serve as guides among the islands and teach the Swallows and Amazons all about human sacrifice.There are a number of things about Secret Water that demonstrate the development of the characters, especially since the first book.
On the whole I think that attitudes expressed in books should be considered according to the prevailing attitudes of the time they were written.
There is always a sense of empire, of England's authority over the world reflected in the Swallows and Amazons books, but here, the changing of the main noun from natives to savages seems to cross my comfort line.
There is a tension between the characters that may be Ransome grappling with the problem of keeping his protagonists below puberty.
He's got a first rate cast, and in this book he is able to develop the characters of Roger and Titty particularly.
The very, very slow starting SECRET WATER is #8 -- and my least favorite so far-- in the Swallow and Amazon Series.
In fact, I think this is one I'd suggest kids skip altogether; alternatively, I'd encourage any parent or responsible adult who might be reading this series aloud to a young child or who is aware of a youngster who is reading the series to FIRST read this one him- or her-self and decide on its appropriateness, or if reluctant about "censorship," at least to be aware of the content.
Logan loves it when they add new characters and in this one, the Swallows are dropped off by their parents in an area of tidal streams and islands, given a rough map, and tasked with filling out the map in detail.
Bridget "the ship's baby" comes into her own in this book and she's a scream.
"I'm NOT too young to be a human sacrifice!" Up until now, our favorite characters in the series were Titty and Dorothea.
But now Bridget is added to the list.
I must say though that neither Logan or I think we'd want to do much sailing in such an area...way too much mud.
This book reunites the Swallows and Amazons in an unfamiliar - and totally unexplored - area which they have to map before being 'rescued' by the Walkers' parents.
Secret Water also introduces a new 'gang' of sailing infatuated kids, The Eels, and is also the first adventure featuring the youngest Walker, Bridget (just a baby the very first S&A book).
Together the incredibly self-sufficient band of youngsters explore a world of tidal-affected islands, indulge in native ceremonies and wade through mud...lots and lots of mud!Probably not the most engaging book of the series thus far Secret Water is still another masterful voyage through the imagination of children by Arthur Ransome.
Let's be a little bit picky.
The new characters don't really get the vivid treatment we're used to in the series.
Even Nancy seems a little subdued.
Great additions are Bridget Walker, now old enough to take part, and Mastodon, the local boy.
The excitement is there, but perhaps a bit too technical.
The cause is not quite up to the life-and-death struggle of We Didn't Mean to Go to Sea, for example.
As for the Eels, well...
Within the series it might vie for fourth best after Swallows and Amazons, We Didn't Mean..., Swallowdale, and Pigeon Post.
"What are we going to do?" asked Roger."Get her back," panted John*"What are we going to do?" asked Titty."Bust those Eels," jerked Nancy, as she swung forward with her oar. (247)"Can anybody think of anything we want?""We ate the last bit of chocolate yesterday," said Roger."Can't you think of anything but chocolate?" said John."Of course I can," said Roger. "But chocolate's jolly important. All the explorers have it. Scott and Nansen and Columbus...""Not Columbus," said Titty. "It wasn't invented then.""Well, I bet he'd have fairly hogged it if he'd had a chance." (297)
This book is not quite as adventurous as some of the other Swallow and Amazon books, but it is very good. There is excitement and danger and no adults nearby. Lots of friendship and warring and good fun. The Swallows are marooned on a "desert island" where there are savages ("the eels") and friends (the Amazons) and given a mission--to map the secret water. It looks like the might not succeed. The ship's baby, Brigitte, volunteers to be a human sacrifice. A good read.
Book #8 in the Swallows & Amazon series. This book has less peril in it than most of the others - it is primarily focused on exploring and cartography and sailing and friendship and the wonderful imagination of children. Since I like exploring and cartography, and would find it fun to go on an expedition like the kids in the story, I enjoyed this book a lot. Just as I did when I first read it in fifth or sixth grade.
Ransome mě provedl podstatnou částí dětství, jeho knihy o dobrodružství Amazonek a Vlaštovek jsem hltala jedním dechem a podobné příběhy ráda sama podnikala. Záhadné vody byly první knihou, kterou jsem od něj přečetla a tak ji mám možná ještě o něco radši než ty ostatní.Líbilo se mi, jak dětem byla dána důvěra a mohly vyrazit samy a celé prázdniny si báječně užily, našly nové přátelé a skutečně prozkoumali Záhadné vody...
More sedate adventures follow _We Didn't Mean To Go To Sea_, as the Amazons join the Swallows (including ship's baby Bridget) and the newly introduced Eels in exploring unknown islands and mudflats. Some well-drawn interactions between the groups, but some of the characters are a bit one-dimensional and cartography just didn't seem exciting after being blown to sea.
Following straight on from We Didn't Mean to Go To Sea, the eighth book in the series once again combines sailing, exploration and what seems extraordinary freedom/independence for young children, this time set on the Essex coast - another favourite of Arthur Ransome. Not the best of the series, but still very entertaining.
Good book by the same author of Swallows and Amazons, recommended.
Eighth of the Swallows & Amazons series, and my least favorite: no D's, no Coots, and the new lot of children who replace them are (with one exception) nowhere near as engaging. Still a good read, though.
