https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/152402.Lucky
Great series! entertaining,funny,intense and includes the foul-mouth,strong characterization of Lucky who never disappoints in taking charge when necessary..well written (paperback!)
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestI think Jackie Collins ranks up there with Tarryn Fisher and Rosemary Rogers in the Hierarchy of Smutty Trash™. These are desert island books, to be sure. I know, I know, everyone says they'd bring Dickens or Baudelaire, but I know who I am and I'm not trying to impress anyone. I love the simple pleasures in life and if you keep me in bad smut, good wine, and great company, I'm happy. So bring on that desert island, and I'm bringing my Jack
Lucky, the titular character, is the daughter of an ex-mobster millionaire playboy who wants to make her own way in the world.
A longer page count, when done well, can really let you become attached to the characters, and by the end of the book you almost don't want to say goodbye to them.
The last 100 pages are especially intense and had me sitting up in bed, saying (quietly, in a "whisper-yell" because everyone was asleep), "WHAT?"If you enjoy fun, trashy books and long, interesting storylines that feature a colorful and large cast of characters, I really think you should give Jackie Collins a try.
This is Book 2 in the Lucky Santangelo series and much like Chances before it, this one does not disappoint.
I had the pleasure of reading these books, both Chances and Lucky years ago, and have recently gone back to visit them again.It is written in such a way that only Jackie Collins can do.Intrigue, romance, sex, liars and players all rolled into a fabulous 600 page adventure.
If there was a rating higher then 5 for this book, it would most definitely get it, much like all of her other novels.
Once you read one Jackie Collins book, you'll want to read them all. I loved Lucky's strength. Jackie makes all her female characters strong and I like that.
Gino Santangelo and his beautiful daughter Lucky are back in the second installment of the Lucky Santangelo series.
Lucky is ambitious, talented, wild, and notorious for getting what she wants on her own terms.All of my favorite characters are back in Book Two. Olympia Stanislopolous and her father Dimitri are still as rich and spoiled as ever, Gino has fallen in love again, and Lucky finds Lennie, the man who is destined to be her future partner.
You can always count on Jackie Collins for a great family saga that doesn't disappoint.
A Jackie Collins novel is always a page turner!
I first read the Lucky series about 20 years ago when I was a teenager, and I recently did a reread.
I really like Ms. Collins' writing style with the short chapters and her ability to write from so many different POVs. Lucky Santangelo is a sexy heroine that you can admire, respect, and read about with glee.
Don't mess with Lucky.
I guess with all the simpering heronies that have become popular in the past several years (I'm looking at you Ana Steele and Bella Swan), it's great to read about such a strong female character.
Long live Lucky Santangelo!
Okay, So It’s Not Middlemarch. The recent death of Jackie Collins after her struggle with breast cancer inspired me to read one of her books. In a second hand store I happened upon this book, Lucky, which I bought for a dollar. The copy is worn, with a creased back cover, a torn spine and dog-eared pages. Clearly it has made a few trips to the beach and has probably ridden on a few airplanes. Although I’m sure it has also spent a few hours hidden under more reputable books, many people certainly
Lucky tells the story of several characters in addition to that of its protagonist, Lucky Santangelo, who made appeared in an earlier Collins book, Chances.
In addition to her confident hand with the characters, Collins keeps the action bouncing along, with several illicit affairs, a kidnapping, and a murder.
I found none of the action in this book credible or interesting, and I ended up putting it down after reading forty pages.
In contrast to the “serious” book, a Jackie Collins novel delivers what it promises.
This book was fun to read. I liked how Lucky doesn't let anyone push her around and how she's her own woman. jackie Collins did a good job on this book.
Smut book, but it was entertaining, Lucky is a woman not to be messed with :)
While I was reading Poor Little Bitch Girl I saw the mini series LUcky Chances and immediately went out and bought al, the Santangelo books I could get my hands on.
Lucky is one if my all time favourite female characters.
I love reading about how she became a huge roaring success in the saga.
I much prefer these older books actually building the hotel empire and learning about GIno and Lenny and how everyone met and came to be.
I love the wild ride throughout the 60s/70s/80s.
The characters are vivid and larger than life and fully engaging.
A brilliant series I love reading.
I have read Jackie Collins novels in the past and decided to try one again. The biggest issue I have with her novels is that she has too many characters and it is hard to keep them straight. By the end of the book, all of the characters manage to come together, but in the meantime, it can be very confusing.
I enjoy reading family sagas and this one doesn't disappoint. Jackie Collins earlier novels are worth reading. This was the very first one that I'd read. I liked Lucky because she was adventurous and terribly head strong. Anything having to do with Gangsters, Thugs, crime- I'm in! This book, I could just fall into, after some deep reading or life's problems. Better than mindless television!
I just love me some Jackie Collins!!! I especially enjoy reading the Santangelo family sagas and later on discussing it with my cousin who was also a big fan. Lucky Santangelo is your typical head strong, gutsy, Italian mob princess you just can't get enough of.
Lucky Bitchessssssss. Ah. May. Zing.
Absolutely entertaining, high paced and with addictive stories.
This was my second Jackie collin's book and i must say it was very good. Sometimes i felt there's too much mention of drugs and sex but this book is about how the characters overcame tough time which made the end really worth reading 600 plus pages.
I may be a decade or two late in reading the Lucky Santangelo series but by golly I feel like it is worth the wait.
I loved Chances because it was such an in depth study of the life of Gino Santangelo from his humble beginnings to his big shot present, it was so developed and detailed and so wonderfully crafted that you were within Gina every step of the way.
Her life mapped out from her wild beginnings to her big shot present, yet Gino, Costa and a wide variety of characters were as much a part of this book as Lucky.
I love the characters in this book, as I usually do in all her books.
Lucky is such a fierce woman and I love her independent nature so much, she doesn't take shit from no one and she does things her own way if it suits her with out anyone's opinion.
Olympia Stanislopoulos was another character, she never appreciated anything good in her life.
So she actually learnt to appreciate all the wrong things in life, she adored Flash who was really ugly and a drug addict and she got into drugs, a crazy cocaine addiction which led to heroine after she got bored.

In Collins' sophomore release of the Santangelo saga we get reaquainted with the business savy and headstrong Lucky Santangelo, daughter of the notorious Gino "The Ram" Santagelo, former mob boss.Not one iota of what Collins' writes in this book comes off as being unrealistic or boring.
How she manages to come up with new and exciting characters, keep us thouroughly updated on old ones, intertwine all of their storylines flawlessly and leave her fans begging for more hard to comprehend.Lucky comes back geared and ready for all new adventures.
We're also reuninited with some old ones many of us may have thought wouldn't come back like Olympia and Dimirti Stanislopolous.

****Fun read!!!
I can't wait to read more of her books...I own most of them!
For me, this book had an exceptionally slow start.
I kept putting it down and starting other books.
I would read a few pages here and there, in between other books.
About 5 days ago, around page 150, this book totally took off!
I am so happy that I read it!
I hope that other readers do not give up if they find the beginning to be slow.
Sometimes that happens with some of my favorite authors, and you just have to keep reading!
It had been years since I visited Lucky Santangelo, but I recently decided to pay her another visit.
This is the second book in a series about Lucky & her family.
I do suggest reading, "Chances" first, but this book is More awesome than Chances.
It most definitely holds its share of surprises & shockers.
If you like a book w/ a good ending...this is one, but getting there is most definitely a suspenseful adventure.
There's romance, humor, suspense & intrigue & naughtiness & drugs...so there's a potpourri in this one, but great reading none the less.
3 stars does not mean this book was bad.
I have read this series from the end to now therefore I know most of the big plot lines that occur in the beginning books.
I noticed that this book had smaller font than the past books I've read by her.
Her other books I've been able to fly through and this one was 500 chock full pages with tiny font and with Jackie Collins books it's like a soap opera with tons of details building before you realize how they tie together so it was a lot to get through.
It was good, but because I now what is going to happen and it was slow that is why I gave it 3 stars.
Another great Lucky story by Jackie Collins!! I got pulled into the story immediately and was totally engaged throughout the entire book!! One small error by the author (sorry, I’m a stickler for details): The story starts in the summer of 1978; Gino returned from "tax" exile in July of 1977; Gino is dating Tiny Martino’s ex-wife, Susan. Gino says that Tiny passed away two years earlier (would have been 1976) and he had attended the funeral in Los Angeles. Well, that would be kind of hard since Gino was not in the States at that time.
Take with a grain of salt..I read this as a frustrated 16 yr old (male) virgin and found the sex scenes particularly titillating.
So much so that the story kept flowing and I wasn't particularly concerned with the quality of writing, the cliches, the superficiality of it all.
I enjoyed it a lot.
Not long ago (about fifteen years after reading Lucky)I came across Hollywood Wives, the other Jackie Collins novel I read.
Wow, it was junk.
I assume I'd have the same opinion of Lucky today, but hey, why ruin good memories.
I did "really like it" at the time.
This is a really great beach read--another one I just couldn't put down. Even though it was written in 1985, it still is fascinating. Two of her characters reminded me of Aristotle and Christina Onassis. This is the 2nd book about Lucky Santangelo, and her family. I love books about strong women, and this one does not disappoint. I'm not familiar with the mob bosses, so I am not sure just who her Gino Santangelo character is based on. But really think the Lucky character has many of the characteristics of the author, Jackie Collins.
I finally read a Jackie Collins book! 30 summers too late-this is an '80's book when Sammy Davis Jr was still out & about. Sensational(istic) writing, after a few pages I realized this novel's all about money power & fucking, but interesting enough plot to continue to the end. Too many damn characters I started losing track!! I felt that the heroine (Lucky Santangelo) bit unrealistic, especially the mobster daughter who gets away with actual murder, her marrying a decades older billionaire in order to get her own nightclub, but maybe I am naive.
I loved this book and I enjoyed reading it. Each character is intertwined. I really pity Eden, she has dreams but she just chose the wrong path. I loved the ending, I think if a man and a woman is really meant to be then they will be together no matter what. Love conquers all! It's great to be able to take a peek of how the rich live, however, living a simple life is best. Money and fame cannot really give it all.
So good!! Knew Lennie would be the one but damn the angst to get there!Lucky and Dimitri were unexpected as was little Bobby's arrival but Lucky did a great job of doing right by her boy.Gino and his pussy distractions yet he always does right in the end.Dimitri turned out to be a scumbag as was Olympia and Brigette until she got a rude awakening.Return of Steven and Carrie was tied in well as was the reveal of his daddy. Nice ending.
