https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7442.The_Electric_Kool_Aid_Acid_Test

I think this should have been half the length. Most pages seemed as though Tom Wolfe was simply describing some seventies hippy picture in as much detail as possible. It would have been more effective if he just showed me the picture.
His hands looked rubbery, like Plastic.
It’s hungry.” Jeff turned to the other passengers.
“I just want to grok”, he thought, but the passengers turned toward him.
He’s the big, eye on top of the pyramid.More than half of this book was written like a faux LSD trip.
Groove to acid tests, self-absorbed hippies, squalor for the sake of squalor – soundtrack provided by The Grateful Dead (don’t get me started on them).Wolfe’s archness, think The Right Stuff or The Painted Word (infinitely better books) takes a beating after about thirty pages of this stuff.
A unique fauxdopey emblem of hippie Americana that blows angelic trumpets in your face with the celebration of a dadaesque topsy-turvy rover's lifestyle.
And what pours out of the almost-mystical experience--following a group of misfits who grok over the long roads & ever-expanding horizons of the motherland--is something unforgettable, unattainable for any other writer than this one, the overly ambitious writer of "Bonfire of the Vanities," Mr. Tom Wolfe.
Bring it into your own personal movie, which plays out in a singular, long, mystifying strip of Day-Glo Highlighter acid-&-lemon green!R.I.P. Tom Wolfe
My older brother and sister would drag me along to look at the "hippies" ...
Guess I should have given him my shades.Ken Kesey and the "Merry Pranksters" are the subject of this real-life look into the lifestyle of California hippies , commune living, and all those weird things you kids have heard of happening in the sixties.
At one point, he asked everyone to jump in synchronicity , I thought to feel the stadium rumble for a few seconds, but looking back he may have been trying to cause the thing to collapse!
It's hard to believe that a book that included so many interesting people, Ken Kesey, Allen Ginsbergh and Neal Cassady just to name a few, could be so tedious and uninteresting.
This is a guy who is about as square and straight as they come attempting to describe to his readers what it was like for Kesey and the merry pranksters to be high on acid and most of it reads like a hollow impersonation of Jack Kerouac.
I'm not sure if Tom Wolfe set out to write an objective journalistic piece covering a time and a place in American history or to write an interesting and exciting non-fiction novel, but he failed on both ends.
I love anything to do with the hippie movement (I'm looking at the era through idealist eyes but it was such a time of great change, great music, great clothes and freedom). After my midterm on Tuesday I was lucky enough to find an old '68 edition of this book being given away for free at the student trade shelf, and it was excellent. Bizarre, funny, interesting and unforgettable, The Electric Kool Aid Acid Test is one of the strangest things I've ever read but also one of the most addictive stories I've found in a long time.
"What we are, we're going to wail with on this whole trip."What Ken Kesey is is a prick, so let's not get any delusions about that.
His early days on the Furthur bus, discovering LSD and inventing the psychedelic movement, come off like Stanley or Shackleton: explorers in new lands, leading a ragtag but brave band of adventurers into dangerous frontier territory.
The middle part makes you feel like Kesey was really on the edge of something new - or at least that he really, really wanted to be - placing him among prophets remembered and failed.
"I don't want to be rude to you fellows from the City, but there's been things going on out here that you would never guess in your wildest million years, old buddy..." Oh, to having lived in the Sixties. All the things people whisper and get reminiscent about today comes alive in The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test. It certainly was a ride, in the most literal sense of the word.I mean, this book is nuts. Crazy. Insane. Tom Wolfe presents his experience of Ken Kesey and his band of Merry Pranksters
All the things people whisper and get reminiscent about today comes alive in The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test.
The title was given to a series of parties that were held in the mid-1960s, where LSD (often put into the drink Kool-Aid, hence the title of the book) was taken to abandon the real world and reach a state of intersubjectivity.
It used to go life-death, life-death, but now it's death-life, death-life..."Having that said, it's an achievement how Tom Wolfe, who was never truly "on the bus" (he claims to never having taken LSD and only smoked marijuana once) made you feel like you're part of the experience throughout the entire book.
First time around, this book positively made me want to try acid. Jury's still out on that one, folks.
My favorite idea presented in the book."A person has all sorts of lags built into him, Kesey is saying.
One-thirtieth of a second is the time it takes, if you are the most alert person alive, and most people are a lot slower than that....
We are all doomed to spend the rest of our lives watching a  movies  of our lives - we are always acting on what has just finished happening.
It happened at least 1/30th of a second ago.
The present we know is only a movies of the past, and we will really never be able to control the present through ordinary means."
As an adult I read it from a greater distance, as someone else's loud party which got a bit out of hand.In the popular imagination the psychedelic phenomenon started in the labs around Harvard on the East coast and amidst psychotherapeutic communities on the West, used primarily by intellectuals, then spread throughout America like a virus out of a research lab.
This book was okay.
Tom Wolfe was always an outsider, a New Yorker, even a (gasp) Yalie.
He was never really 'on the bus' if you know what I mean.
But for a square, he explains the scene pretty well.
It is an interesting book for one fact if nothing else: it's kind of the only book written in the 60's about the 60's.
. .), and I'm hard pressed to think of another book from the era ABOUT the era.I'm now reading In Cold Blood, written in 1965, the year the pranksters dosed my mom at the Trips Festival in SF.
I had a brief interaction with Tom Wolfe last November.He came to speak to my class in one of those rare "Oh wow, Columbia Journalism might be worth it" moments.
I happened to be working there as a reporter at the time (and hating it), it was one of those surreal coincidences that seem to happen to me on an eerily regular basis.
He asked for questions, my hand shot up first, and I prefaced with "Hi Mr. Wolfe, big fan of your work, and I write for the NY Sun...." He hemmed and hawed, we both laughed and shared a little moment.As for the Acid Test, well, it's a masterpiece of writing.
I swear for a good long while I was seriously considering giving this book two stars for Wolfe's disingenuous pseudo-hipster "spontaneity," a la Kerouac but with bells on; the style and tone were actually kind of making me roll my eyes and cringe.
OK, for 270 pages Wolfe attempts at various times to capture the LSD experience, but it isn't until he allows an acid test participant-- Clair Brush--to speak verbatim in her own words for several pages, that we actually get a real sense of what the experience is like.
My beginning with Tom Wolfe was reading The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test in 1969.
In The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test (on page 385 in the original hardcover Book Club edition I got from the library) Ken Kesey and the Merry Pranksters plan a similar manic feat.
By this time Kesey is wanted, jail-bait in fact, for numerous drug busts, so they are planning the Acid Test of all time at Winterland in San Francisco.
Who could resist a chance to find out what it was like to spend a quaint evening in the woods reaching altered states of consciousness with a group of Hell's Angels, or taking a peek inside the world of the budding hippie stars led by a youthful Jerry Garcia and the Grateful Dead.
Whether or not you approve of massive drug use will not impact your liking of this book, and for anyone who takes an interest in the counterculture movement this book is a must-read.
Did the Man in the White Suit have "Sweet Tooth" pushers ?In the 60s he teased through his hat, to great acclaim ; his liberal dose of saucy irreverence bursts with a briskvein of low humor.
He injected the comic strip into dailyjournalism-scribbles and it became his pet province.
Meanwhile,he remains a sort of modest church lady.
Some of his pieces are swell; he's at his best when he's at his waggiest (for henever reaches wit).
As a New Journalist, he dares to probe inner thoughts of others; beware : he's an Externalist.Keep peeling an onion and you're left with nothing but aroma.
It puts the story out there in a way that is honest and fair, showing not just the idealism, but also the grime and the violence and the difficulties of rebellion against the norm and the inherent dangers in basing a movement on a mind altering drug.
It might be easy to reject the story as a tale of mistaken adventures of the past, but only out of context from the things which came next.
The garden that Ken Kesey and the Merry Pranksters planted was set in very fertile ground.
From their ideas came the rave scene, the flash mob scene, the multimedia party scene, psychedelic art, and more.
They had planted a garden where plants are still mutating and changing today.
I read this book ---and 'The Right Stuff' when a 'yoga friend, (no less), recommend I read 'Tom Wolfe' (Before knowing of Goodreads).
Being older --late to the party (never considered this book when I actually lived in Berkeley attending Cal during the early 70's), -- what I enjoyed most about 'both' this book and 'The Right Stuff' was the historical trip down memory lane of a culture that comes around once in a lifetime.
Tom Wolfe is another one of those talented odd balls.
(a small diet of Tom Wolfe is as good for the soul as an hour of Vinyasa Flow).
Maybe, as a full-fledged member of the If-It-Feels-Good-Do-It Generation, I was subconsciously embarrassed by my own pretentiousness, pseudo-intellectuality, self-absorption, and self-righteousness in those days.But I recently restored my suppressed memory by hooking down Tom Wolfe's "The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test," first published in 1968.
Thompson, and others were then developing to produce nonfiction works that read like novels.Like a novel, "The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test" uses scene-by-scene construction, records full dialogue, provides the thoughts and emotions of the subjects, and describes in detail their behavior and possessions.And, like a novel, it puts you there, in the midst of Kesey and his Merry Pranksters: in their Day-Glo bus careening across America, at their acid-laced parties, in their drug-addled minds.
Even Neal Cassady showed up, fresh from his Beat trip and ready to begin a new journey…..Kerouac knew the torch was to be passed….the Beats were the old hands….they were on the road but weren’t anymore, but Neal needed to be, and so he landed with Kesey in order to….drive the BUS.And the BUS was a real thing, a tripped out, tricked out monstrosity that could carry Kesey and the Pranksters forth to spread the message, and so they did.
I have Tom Wolfe's aesthetic taste figured out: He likes exuberance.
He doesn't like ascetics.
Asceticism is unamerican.In The Right Stuff, he prefers Yeager and the test pilots to the astronauts who don't get to really fly their capsules.
In From Bauhaus to Our House, he loathes the European modernists (Mies et al.) and he likes FLW and Saarinen.
In The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test, he sides with Kesey and the Pranksters with their undoctrinaire deployment of LSD and technology against other psychedelic advocates like Leary who are from the East coast, who like Eastern religion, and who would frown at an enormous sound system.
I've been trying to finish this for a while. If the experience of reading it wasn't so much like an acid trip itself, I might be able to get past halfway. Each chapter starts out like a story but slowly devolves, sometimes into sheer chaos. I'm interested in the people being talked about, especially after reading On the Road, but I just can't slog through. I may come back to it.
This book focuses on a bus trip organized by Ken Kesey and driven by Neal Cassidy(the real Dean Moriaty in On the Road shortly after Kesey finished Sometimes a Great Notion--and the bus ride is basically one long acid trip.
You meet Hunter Thompson and his articles on the Hell's Angels and then meet the Grateful Dead who started off as a house band for the Electric Kool Aid tests(LSD parties)Interesting read but so many things bothered me.
There's equal information in the introduction as in the meat of the story, but less of the fun, and a little more cruelty to the real people behind Wolfe's "new journalism" report.
Kesey and his merry pranksters are as interesting as any fiction cast Wolfe could have invented, often funny and always irreverent.
It's the lack of reverence in Wolfe's new journalism style that will bother the most people, as those who hated what Kesey stood for won't read the book.
Much of the middle portion also seems masturbatory, which shines a poor light on the merry pranksters, and makes Wolfe seem like more boring writer than he really is.
Kesey had been involved in CIA sponsored drug tests, which included such recreational fun things as LSD, mescalin and cocaine.
The book follows them back to La Honda in California, where the large acid test parties really start taking off......with Hell's Angels!
The comparison to a new religion/way of consciousness (or even a cult) that Wolfe makes is an astute one.
A charismatic leader such as Kesey somehow could bring in extremely rough and dangerous Hell's Angels as well as new age christian leaders from large Californian sects.
(ETA: Supposedly Gus Van Sant is working on making a movie of this book, slated for 2011.)Much like Kerouac's On the Road, The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test was one of those books that I tried several times to read and always failed miserably to get through the first chapter.
Sometimes it's amazing to me how much (or maybe how little) has actually changed in some forty years since the Merry Pranksters took off in their bus.Wolfe wrote this book like he was there, like he experienced any or all of this.
Let me preface this review by saying I was not alive in the 60's, and I never talked to my parents about their experiences, yet through this book, I feel as though I shared in the madness that were the Acid Tests.
Tom Wolfe's masterpiece "The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test," is an absolutely amazing book written about a group of Hippies hell-bent on spreading they're organized chaos throughout the nation.
Whether or not you approve or liked the hippies movement, and even if your offended by drug related subject matter, you should read this book.
As electrified as the name! What a ride. I am definitely an on-the-bus sort of person.
