https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/175242.Every_Dead_Thing
The hero, Charlie Parker, is so tormented that his story is as equally compelling as the plot of the actual mystery.Is it a cliché to have settings rendered so richly?
Which apparently they have.Is it a cliché to have a detective novel that includes the supernatural to such a strong degree that at times the reader feels they are reading something that is much more ambiguous, much more rooted in primal fears and unearthly mysteries than a standard police procedural?
Struggling with his loss and law enforcement's inability to make any progress in finding their killer, Charlie resigns from his position and then more to keep occupied than for any other reason he takes on a couple of assignments with a local bail bondsman and eventually agrees to look into a missing person case for Lieutenant Walter Cole.
Charlie sees and hears things, that cannot all be attributed to the tortured dreams of his dead wife and child.
To say there is a lot going on in Every Dead Thing (book #1 in the Charlie Parker series) is an understatement.
His character grows and evolves in this mystery, transforming from a shell of a man into something much more.When Detective Charlie Parker comes home one evening to discover his wife and young daughter have been brutally murdered, he loses himself.
However, when Parker focuses his energy back on finding The Traveling Man, things start to come together and tighten up.
Parker’s search for The Traveling man takes him to New Orleans.
THE BLURB: Hailed internationally as a page-turner in a league with the fiction of Thomas Harris, this lyrical and terrifying bestseller is the stunning achievement of an "extravagantly gifted" (Kirkus Reviews) new novelist.
John Connolly superbly taps into the tortured mind and gritty world of former NYPD detective Charlie "Bird" Parker, tormented by the brutal, unsolved murders of his wife and young daughter.
Like Charlie 'Bird' Parker, I could sense them there, shadows in the room wanting to be heard, as I read.
Thank you to Atria Books via Netgalley for providing a digital copy of Every Dead Thing by John Connolly for review.
Then there are large chunks that feel like nods to the expected genre tropes rather than personal style: an explanation of the guns Parker owns, a description of his beat-up car, the strange way the police in whatever area he's in include him in their cases.
Eventually, two of the stories fit together, with the remaining section feeling like a long detour into a different book Don't get me wrong; certainly it entertained (did I mention needing to stay awake?) but in retrospect, I can't think that it had anything to do with the final story.
Initially focusing these more ghostly aspects through New Orleans is effective- it’s a place where people are known to believe darker things, where the line between the real world and the other is blurred, even celebrated.The main character is, himself, an example of faded humanity, an alcoholic who lost his family and police career to a serial killer's inventive action.
The themes of the book are repeated in his character; the scientific in his investigative process, the philosophical through his inward discussions of morality and justice, the supernatural through his direct connection with his dead wife and daughter.
Charlie Parker has more than a nodding acquaintance with the dark. The vicious murder of his wife and small daughter has left him a damaged soul, tormented and raw. A serial killer is not even close to finishing his work. A former police detective, Parker is going to try to focus away from his grief and turn his full attention to finding the perpetrator, this demon, this man without a face. I believe in evil because I have touched it, and it has touched me.
Irish writer John Connolly introduces his readers to his continuing murder mystery hero Charlie “Bird” Parker in the 1999 thriller Every Dead Thing.His writing has reminded many readers of Thomas Harris (the author of The Silence of the Lambs) and I did not really see this in the previous book of his I read (2016’s A Time of Torment) but I could most definitely see Hannibal Lecter’s influence here.
Connolly’s writing, and his plot and themes, are so similar to the Lecter books (and films) that this was somewhat distracting, but Connolly adds more to his story to make it unique and entertaining (if not intrinsically disturbing).Parker is a NYPD detective whose wife and young daughter are brutally murdered while he is at a bar drinking.
Jump to about a half a year later where, after absolutely no progress in finding the killer, Parker has left the Department and now chases bail jumpers for a lowlife bondsman, mostly to keep active since he had stopped drinking out of guilt.
And, of course, the second half of the book with the actual tracking of the killer once some solid leads surface in New Orleans.
They are not described in gruesome detail but they are gruesome nonetheless.Upon finishing Every Dead Thing, it felt like a 4-and-a-half Star book to me.
I know she's going to feel badly if she reads this but I must maintain the integrity of my reviews by sticking with the Brutally Honest program.
Sorry Mom. It's not your fault; you didn't write it, and I likely would have bought it myself.On to the review: Those who read my review for Messiah know how I feel about blurbs that compare novels to Silence of the Lambs.
I read novels to get into the heads of the characters.
Hey, if you like organized crime plots, lots of action and cheap romance, pants, tops and shoes, Every Dead Thing is definitely for you.
4 starsThis book starts with 2 horrific murders--a a mother and child are tortured, killed and then arranged in a pose reminiscent of some twisted horror painting.
Charlie Parker comes home after a night of heavy drinking to find his wife and daughter murdered.
The killer leaves messages for Charlie, calling himself the "Travelin' Man." Charlie goes to Louisiana in search of clues.
More people die, some by the Travelin' Man and others because of conflicts caused by the widening search for the killer, now involving police and FBI.
This a moderately long book, 480p and has quite a bit of violence.
When you wrote knob on next doors lawn with weed killer or even taking a screenshot of mum's desktop, hiding all the icons and then using it as the wallpaper, ok maybe not that cherished but you know what I mean, or is that just me.This time I listened to the audio of Every Dead Thing narrated by the excellent Jeff Harding and it’s a whole new experience, the characters you love have a voice and the stories that little bit more riveting than it was before.
Haunted by the death of his family he blames himself and his world spirals out of control.
His visions of the death lead him into a life he had not planned and does not want but his sense of survival and right and wrong is too strong to let him to let him shy away from the evil he knows walks among us.
I have read all of the Charlie Parker stories and if I ever have to confront evil Charlie Parker is the man I want at my back.
I would like to thank the Publisher and Net Galley for the chance to read this story again.
It didn't lessen my enjoyment because I read suspense/police procedurals for the ride not the answer, but other readers who are more mystery-solving/surprise-oriented might find it frustrating.Somehow -- notwithstanding all of the above -- Connolly succeeds with Every Dead Thing - in large part by making Charlie an everyman I want to join for another novel.
I'm likely over-rating this first installment in the Parker series, but I'm taking the bet that the next novel of his that I read will be at least a solid 4- if not a 5-star, and this one's the appropriate on-ramp to that reading experience.
Decline to rate. DNF @ 100 pagesCan anybody tell me exactly what "Oriental laughter" is? It came issuing from a vent at one point in this book and I'm still trying to figure out what exactly that would sound like. Anyway, I gave this book 100 pages. That's 50 pages more than I normally give a new-to-me author.Mark this one down as Not For Me.
The plotting is extremely ingenious and Connolly pulls of a bit of a coup with this, his debut novel.
Every Dead Thing was nominated for the Bram Stoker Award and won the Shamus award for best first Private Eye Novel.
The novel drips atmosphere and has more than a few twists to keep things interesting.
The multiple plots are a joy to work through and the way Connolly holds everything together is remarkable.
Some readers will no doubt compare the use of Orleans in the second part of the novel to the works of James Lee Burke.
Read this novel!
After reading A Time of Torment, I decided that I definitely wanted to know more of the Charlie Parker back story.
And he also kept me guessing.One major con with this book (that was not present to the same degree in A Time of Torment) was the degree and type of violence, the graphic nature of it.
There was much less graphic violence in the newer book, though by its nature of good fighting evil, there is violence.Well, that is my long-winded apologia/review.
I definitely recommend you read Connolly's short stories, no matter what.
I immediately needed more Connolly and upon realizing he had an entire mystery/thriller series featuring a private detective named Charlie Parker, I was filled with optimism and excitement.Former New York City cop, Charlie Parker, had his wife and daughter taken from him after their brutal murder.
In Every Dead Thing, Parker is tasked to track down a vicious serial killer that will lead to a confrontation that will test the his physical and ultimately, his moral, limits.The plot of Every Dead Thing is certainly out there.
Tracking down a serial killer who removes the skin of his victims and leaving them in various poses is certainly an exercise in brutality.
Με το άλλο πατάει σε ένα παρακλάδι της λογοτεχνίας τρόμου, το θρίλερ το αστυνομικό, το οποίο συγκλίνει με την αστυνομική λογοτεχνία, αλλά είναι κάτι άλλο, κάτι που είναι κοντά στα δικά μου αναγνωστικά χνώτα, γιατί είναι νοσηρό, σκοτεινό και μπορεί εύκολα να γειτνιάσει με το φρικιαστικό και το απάνθρωπο.
Ο Κόνελι πρέπει να είναι ένα σπάνιο ταλέντο αν στην πρώτη προσπάθεια να γράψει για κατά συρροή δολοφόνους απέφυγε όχι μόνο τα κλισέ, αλλά έβγαλε αβίαστα στο γραπτό του μια γλώσσα τόσο προσεγμένη, με χαρακτήρα, αστεία, καυστική και άλλες στιγμές στοιχειωτική, υπαινικτική.
Δεν είναι το 4αρι του πάρα πολύ καλού βιβλίου, αλλά της θριαμβευτικής απαγκίστρωσης από την συμβατική γραφή του είδους και της υπόσχεσης για κάτι πιο ισορροπημένο στα βιβλία που ακολουθούν.
When Charlie “Bird” Parker describes the murder of his wife and young daughter in the prologue of Every Dead Thing, I was riveted.
In short, I’d have enjoyed this saga more if Mr. Connolly had trimmed one hundred or more pages of details and descriptions of homicidal events that were unrelated to the search for his family’s killer.
At times I found him unlikable, but as his character developed throughout the course of the book, I began to appreciate his complexity.
Since I have heard good things about this author and this series, I may be willing to chalk this up to it being a first attempt and give him another shot at some point.
3 stars for me.
I liked this one.
At first it was a bit confusing, jumped around, couple story lines happening but I stuck with it and eventually settled into it.
What the serial killer does to his victims is beyond words!
Yes it was a bit long at times.
The main character would reference something from earlier in the story and I would think "oh yea, I forgot about that part".
I will check out the 2nd in the series if I see it on my book hunts :-).
PS - are there any fictional homicide dectectives who aren't alcoholics?
My first John CONNOLLY book, and the first in the Charlie Parker series. I really like his writing style. The book keeps you engaged right from the beginning, and wanting to continue on with the series. I would recommend this to all lovers of mystery books.
This book is great in so many ways and to think, this is Connolly's debut novel, does that mean he gets better?
Back to singing Every Dead Thing's praises...the plot is taut, there are sort of two mysteries in one book, it's long at almost 500 pages, but the pacing is great.
I had my suspicions about the killers, but I wasn't sure, the mystery aspect was well executed IMO, some of the scenes were quite horrific and suited to depraved tastes of a horror fan.
What can I say, I'm impressed, I'm won over, I'm a fan.
I highly recommend this book.
Oh shit I thought I had this one figured out. I was sure I knew the killer was but I loved that I was wrong, it made it that much more surprising and enjoyable. A very good book until the last forty or so pages then it became great. There's a lot of characters and a lot is going on and I was shocked by the ending. Great stuff.
"Every Dead Thing" by John Connolly is a phenomenal book, a perfect confluence of everything that I love in a detective novel: well-written, fast-paced, suspenseful, well-plotted, extremely violent, dark, philosophical, intelligent, and emotional.
In his brooding, tortured private eye, Charlie "Bird" Parker, Connolly has created an anti-hero for the new millenium, a heroic figure who is at war with the dark side of his psyche, and the dark side is winning.
The plot of "Every Dead Thing" is, like most of Connolly's books, elaborate and complex, with dozens of characters, major and minor, to keep track of.
He is a man driven, his hunger for justice only surpassed by a thirst for revenge, and John Connolly's magnificent prose will draw you in to the depths of Parker's plight, and it'll have you willing him success every step of the way; but you just know that for "Bird", nothings going to come easy.Connolly's writing is masterful, it'll endear you to his protagonist by painting a vivid picture of the loss Bird suffered, and the regret he lives with having failed his family.
Although, even on these occasions, the lyrically endearing prose will keep you firmly in Bird Parker's corner.
This was my first book by John Connolly, and it certainly won't be the last.
This was a great detective/thriller story with a couple of of serial killers' stories linked in.
The main story concerns former policeman, Charlie Parker, whose life has been put on hold ever since a serial killer murdered his wife and 3 year-old daughter, mutilating their bodies savagely.Parker is an incredible character!
IMO, that took a little of the momentum away from the main storyline, and it would take me a while to refocus on the plot afterwards.I can't wait to delve into the next book in the series!Highly recommended!
A very good first book in a series, 3.5 stars. Fairly gritty with some good twists. I liked the fantastic elements. They're not overdone - no werewolves or vampires - but there are some unexplained phenomena. It's interesting, just a little outside reality. Doesn't cause a huge suspension of disbelief.Good characters & a twisty, ugly mystery even though a lot of (psycho serial killer) was old stuff. There's enough of a new polish to make me look forward to reading more.
Δεν λέω, είχε δράση (σε ορισμένα σημεία) είχε πιστολίδι, είχε αίμα και σκοτωμούς (και πολύ, μάλιστα, από τα δύο τελευταία), αλλά ένοιωσα ότι με κούρασε.
Το βιβλίο, αρχικά, μας δίνει την εικόνα της δολοφονίας της οικογένειας του πρωταγωνιστή και έπειτα , ουσιαστικά, χωρίζεται σε δύο μέρη.
Στο πρώτο μέρος ο πρωταγωνιστής ασχολείται με μία υπόθεση εξαφάνισης μίας κοπέλας, ενώ στο δεύτερο ασχολείται με την ανακάλυψη της ταυτότητας του δράστη της δολοφονίας της οικογένειας του.
Το πρώτο μέρος κύλησε, για μένα, καλύτερα από το δεύτερο.
Ένοιωσα, στο δεύτερο, να κάνει μια κοιλιά.Δεν μπορώ να παραβλέψω , βέβαια, το γεγονός ότι έχει πολύ καλή βαθμολογία και πολύ καλά σχόλια.
I have been looking for a series like this for awhile and I hear through the Goodreads grapevine it keeps getting better.The main character, Charlie Parker, has had some dark things built into his past- and I do mean dark.
Guilt ridden, suicidal and horrifyingly dark.
A big part of the hook in this series is my interest in what happens next to Parker.
The author weaves a dark psychological perspective into his story and there are times I get lost in the musing or the diction and it becomes as important as the plot itself.Five out of five stars.
