https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18298225-on-the-fence
Charlie grew up with all boys so she is one of the guys.
She realizes she wants to wear makeup but worries her brothers and dad won't approve.Braden meets her at the fence at night and they can really open up when they are alone.
Braden doesn't approve of Charlie changing herself for a guy but Charlie worries no boys want to date her.
A new job brings Charlie out of her shell and she soon learns that you can be everything you want.
Braden is always at the fence ready to listen though.
I loved the family dynamic and how Charlie evolved as a character throughout the book.
However, I felt like most of the characters, especially the brothers, weren't fleshed out and the story ended a little too hastily (which is understandable as it is under 300 pages).
Charlie also really irked me in the beginning as she was a tad insensitive and a little too generic YA tomboy (judging people for being girly and whatnot), but she eventually redeemed herself later on.
This was a satisfying book and a great contemporary read for summer!
Yes, she has a bit of a character development and yes she does get more feminine but, the way I see it, that pretty little summer dress doesn’t match her personality so when I look at that cover it doesn't feel like it's Charlie that I see with the guy.While I think this was a clichéd story (I mean come on…you fall in love with your neighbour who you’ve known since being a child and it takes you to date another guy to see it?
Jeez!_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ORIGINAL REVIEW WRITTEN MARCH 2015 (I’d love for Chloe Moretz to play Charlie’s role in case this gets optioned for a movie.)This is exactly what I needed- a cuddly, snuggly book to read and it gave me this overall warm and pleasant feeling.
Lol. I also like the use of short chapters and the summer setting that make the story very light and easy to read.
The major thing that quite put me off however is the sudden overturn of events towards the end especially between Braden and Charlie.
I couldn't help it, so many people have done reviews for Kasie West on my feed and I was in the mood for contemporary feel good YA and decided to see what all the hype was about.I am so glad I finally caved in.
This is the type of contemporary I love.
Not doing a long review because the book's blurb summarizes everything that happens.
It's cute, it's fluffy, it's a tomboy who has overprotective brothers and is in love with her next-door neighbor/friend.
It was perfect.Instantly adding all Kasie's other books to my TBR.
That's how much I loved this.
This story was beautiful, funny, heartwarming, soo sad, relatable, addicting and a really easy read.
Her having 3 (not counting her Best Friend Braden who was like a brother to her, until a few years ago) tall, athletic and protective brothers was really relatable because they reminded me of my five brothers, lol.
I loved all the characters in here, like really all.
Braden, Jerom, Nathan, and Gage were my main favorites, though, supportive, protective, hilarious, athletic, and caring they were the best friends and brothers any sister and/or girl could ask for.
That's it, I found a book I want to live in. For me this book was perfect: perfectly-awesome dynamics, perfectly-sweet romance and just a perfectly-bit of sadness to make up for the perfectly-amazing ‘giggleness’.Yes, I am a also a ‘perfect’ dork in love with romantic stories, but what can I say? I just loved this story so very much!And you shouldn’t simply take my words for it, so I will give you the reasons why those items on the list were so great to begin with:1. fantastic family dynamics -
For me this book was perfect: perfectly-awesome dynamics, perfectly-sweet romance and just a perfectly-bit of sadness to make up for the perfectly-amazing ‘giggleness’.Yes, I am a also a ‘perfect’ dork in love with romantic stories, but what can I say?
4 stars!!!
On the Fence was my first book by Kasie West and it certainly won't be the last.
I listened to this audio book, and it only took me a day or two to get through it.
I found myself pushing play in all of my spare time.
Honestly, it was a tad bit predictable, but still super cute and fun to listen to!
This book is about a girl named Charlie.
Charlie has been raised by a single father and a few older brothers so it's not surprising that she's a tomboy.
She also has a neighbor and close f
I listened to this audio book, and it only took me a day or two to get through it.
This book is about a girl named Charlie.
She also has a neighbor and close friend named Braden.
Braden is like a brother to her brothers, but she has other kinds of feelings for him.
Charlie changes and evolves during the summer this book takes place.
I loved Braden and Charlie together.
I loved all of Charlie's brother (especially Gage) and her dad.
Overall, I found this to be an enjoyable read and I've already got another West audio book downloaded and ready to go!
I sometimes was shaken off course by her abrupt coldness--such as that time when one of her teammate's grandmother died and Charlie wasn't the slightest bit sincere--but we soon find out that there was something behind those types of actions.The highlight of Kasie West's latest is the relationships she created.
I LOVED the relationship Charlie held with her brothers.
One of the best sibling relationships I've seen so far this year.The romance in one word?
And the fence chats *sighs*Personally, I would have liked to know more about Charlie's time at her soccer camp.
My life is now complete.************IT'S HAPPENING.
There is quite a bit of hype surrounding this book and all my friends who have read it so far have loved it so I feel like a complete buzz kill with my ‘hating’.
Perhaps it’s my fault but if I had known this book had a storyline that revolved around the character trying to change herself, I probably wouldn’t have read it.
Her brothers are also incredible and so fun to read about!I guess one could also fault the length of the book in this case because it did seem quite short in the end.
I liked how she didn't instantly hate all girly girls, and how when she turned 16 (the dating age her brothers set) she didn't instantly want to date guys.
She finds that she does not hate the clothes Linda chose for her, she doesn't even mind make-up, and she likes her job.During this book Charlie starts to become self-conscious about what others think about her.
For most of the book she doesn't tell her brothers about the clothes Linda bought or how she started modeling for make-up.
In Charlie brother's point of view she could not like make-up and wear pretty clothes.
Will a best friends to lovers trope ever not make me emotional?
The answer is 100% no.This one was a bit harder to get into, at first I couldn't relate to Charlie since I have neVER had brothers, and her persona was so different.
Her development was *mostly* based around a guy so that was pretty frustrating, but she at least had other things she had to deal with, even though they were tied up a little faster than expected.
There were also a few jokes that were not great & i didn't particularly love SO it can't be a 5.
I AM V EMOTIONAL.
I LOVE THIS TROPE TOO MUCH IT HURTS.
It's because she writes such cute stories with a lot of characters who are always set on doing the right thing.Charlie is the easily relatable character that I understood.
Some things could just be the for the fun of it." (149)"I am going to call every girl in your contacts tonight and tell them you're gay." (168)"It's pretty impressive that a girl that looks like you knows so much about baseball." (189)"If you can't be yourself around him, then you shouldn't be dating him." (193)"Guys don't want a competitor, they want a cheerleader." (194)"We can't let boys define how we feel about ourselves.
Evan, the angry-looking one is Jerom, the constipated-looking one is Nathan, and the goofball on the right is Gage.” p198In this book, readers will follow the point of view of Charlotte (Charlie) Reynolds, sixteen, the only girl in the family with 3 older brothers Jerom, Nathan, and Gage, and a police officer for a father.
Through this job, she learns to embrace the girly side of herself that was not part of her growing up, including wearing makeup and hanging out with girls who don’t play sports.
I like their tips on which guy or girls to not date.
According to my sister,this friend of ours is a fan of this author(thanks to you,Aj!) So,NEIL my awesome buddy,HAPPY,HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO YOU!^^My Review:Now,I understand why this buddy of mine love Kasie West..it's because this author has a thing in creating her characters.And in this novel,it is the awesome characters that made me love this book.Let me start with the MC..CHARLIE(Charlotte),a 16 year old tough,rough,smart,witty and beautiful young lady,grew up with her dad and three brothers plus,the boy neighbor who they considered family.Living with these boys all her life explains very well why she's a tomboy..she doesn't wear make up,never wear skirts,and doesn't care how and what she look..Until one day,when for the first time,she had to work in a boutique to pay off a speeding ticket and(bam!)was introduced to a world of fashion and make up.Charlie,since childhood only hangs out with boys(her brothers,their friends,and Braden-the 4th brother).
*4.5 TOMBOYISH STARS* "Sometimes we expect more than people are capable of giving at the moment." When I first started this, I thought I wasn't going to like this one. I changed my mind pretty quickly though, because I totally love it now!This novel is about Charlotte/Charlie, who is a total tomboy who grew up with 3 brothers and no mother, only a father. She's really close with her neighbor Braden, who's more like her 4th brother. Then she gets a job at a clothing store and discovers the girly
I changed my mind pretty quickly though, because I totally love it now!This novel is about Charlotte/Charlie, who is a total tomboy who grew up with 3 brothers and no mother, only a father.
At first I really didn't like her, but eventually she changed from a closed-off and pretty selfish girl to a more openminded and happier woman in the end.
What I also liked was her close relationship with her father and brothers.
It makes me respect single fathers so much more!The ending of the book was also totally perfect, with that last fence reference.

4.5 starsI've read this baby some time ago and totally forgot to review it! I really enjoyed reading this book and I definitely liked it more than The Distance Between Us. I liked the characters, the story, the awesome sister-brothers relationship and, of course, those "on the fence" talks. This is a really sweet and interesting contemporary book perfect for all YA readers looking for something light, but still not too light. Kasie West has a special place in my heart for sure. I love her writing and I am looking forward to reading her new books!
3 teen stars   “Sometimes we expect more than people are capable of giving at the moment.”    On the Fence  is about a girl named Charlie, who grew up motherless and as the only girl in a family with three boys. Charlie's the true tomboy, only interested in sports, no interest at all in girly things. When she wracks up some fines in speeding tickets her dad makes an ultimatum, she has to get a job and pay for the tickets herself.The only place Charlie ends up being able to get a job at is a clo
It's more of a coming of age book than a romance.
I feel that this is a great book for teen girls ages 13-17, but not really for anyone older than that.
The romance fell a bit flat for me, Braden was kind of boring and not really there throughout most of the book.
Also, and my friend Lola pointed this out as well, the cover has the girl in a dress.
Despite Charlie discovering her girly side, she refused to wear a dress.
(Yes the cover dress is cute, but it doesn't fit the book).
Believe me.
On the Fence was one of my most highly anticipated books of 2014.
I love everything about Kasie West.
Her books are usually ridiculously cute, have snarky characters and just speak to my soul.
This one was pretty un-Kasie West.
The romance felt very unrealistic in a sense that it took the main character forever to figure out the love interest liked her.
However, On the Fence's biggest issue was its predictability.
I knew how the book would end right from the beginning and had long before figure out the SECRET everyone was keeping from the main character.
kasie west never lets me down <3
¡Estos libros me hacen tan feliz! 😊 Me gustó más “PS: I like you” (“PD: Me gustas” en español), pero lo he disfrutado desde la primera a la última página. ¡Pronto reseña!
RATING:   I haven't been reading a lot of contemporaries recently because I had pretty bad luck with the ones I have tried to read. So when our group read of the month ended up being a contemporary, I was a bit worried. But surprise! This book wasn't bad. In fact, it was great. Amazing. Sweet. Touching. Perfect. It was such a cute and heartwarming read that I did not expect. I did not expect to like this book at all, but I did. I did not only like it, I loved it!      "Why are we doing this?” I
Charlie (or Charlotte or Charles) lived with her three brothers, her father, and lived close to Braden, her neighbor who she considered almost like a brother.
Charlie I really liked her character.
Charlie wasn't like that.
I just love characters like that.
See guys like Braden, only exists in books.
Braden was best friends with Charlie's older brother, Gage.
I also really loved Charlie's dad.
Charlie's relationship with her father, her brothers, and Braden.
I absolutely love Charlie and Braden's relationship.
Even though I loved the chemistry between Charlie and Braden, I thought it was a bit cliche.
Hmm I don't know if this book is my least favorite Kasie West book or The Fill-In Boyfriend. I wasn't really enjoying this at first but then it turned quite enjoyable! Regardless, it was still a very light read and perfect for those wanting an easy book to read. “Sometimes we expect more that people are capable of giving at the moment.” I don't have much to say about this book except it's a typical Kasie West book, not that it bothered me. I quite like her style, except how her MCs always get to
It includes some sad themes, but Kasie West manages to balance the sad and the cute aspects of the book pretty well.
Braden, like all of West's male MCs, is cute and sweet.
He and Charlie are great together and I liked their relationship development.
As for Charlie's family, I loved how caring and supportive they were of each other, especially her 3 brothers.
Sibling relationships are always great in books.All in all, Kasie West is definitely my go-to author when I'm looking for cute and light reads.
“I looked up recurring dreams.Dreams are messages, things our minds want us to learn. Recurring dreams can be really important messages. The often come in the form of nightmares. Recurring dreams could represent real-life problem that hasn't been dealt with or resolved. Overcoming or resolving that problem could help one move past the recurring dream.” West as reckoned for Romantic stories, But I've found too juvenile with the centralized character.Writing is as usual exceptional as West- Best one.Exploring and infatuation Teenager would precisely loved that.Recommended for them.
I mean I really enjoyed P.S. I Like You. It was one of those books you couldn't help but smile at.
HOWEVER it had a big pet peeve of mine in this.The main character Charlie is a tomboy, and she thought she had to act a certain way and chnage who she was to get a boy to like her.
The back story for the family was pretty sad, but I don't really know how they handled everything.I kind of liked Braden, it's hard to explain because sometimes I'd like him and then others when he'd act up and not be very nice, I'd be like why are you doing this?!Main Characters...
Two books for 2014??
Ok here's the thing...if you write a fluffy contemporary.
You gotta put some cute moments into the book.
In my opinion, there were none.
The only reason i kept reading was because i was reading for the #rainbowthon and it's not very long or hard to read.
I feel like the main character was so boring and blah.
The reason I didn't give it 1 star was because it wasn't absolutely horrible, and i can see why some people can like this book.
I am not one of those people.
Overall, a blah story with blah characters.
I really enjoyed it and it was just what I needed but Kasie West's books are pretty basic.
I've read a lot of fantasy books lately but now an again I have needed a easy contemporary to read.
I really liked Charlie, it was refreshing to see a main character who is such a tomboy.
They treated her with so much respect and just like them which I loved.
One of them was when Charlie at the start of the book was quite rebellious and she ended up getting a speeding ticket?
Go read her review because it's fabulous:DSO this book!
I can also predict that there will be more Kasie West books in my future.I know I've mentioned this before, but I'll discuss it again: romance in books.We all know that it's nearly impossible to avoid romantic situations in books.
It's realistic, it's relatable, it's romantic!And that, my dear friends, is one of the greatest reasons I enjoy contemporary romance and chick lit.
Because in those books, I'm mostly guaranteed that romantic progression!
And that was one of the reason I loved this book!Honestly, everyone in this book is pure awesomeness!
