https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36315.The_Best_of_H_P_Lovecraft
the diction is unnecessarily latinate and the prose is frequently overwrought, piling up the adjectives like "shambling" and "eldritch" to the point where certain passages are laugh-out-loud funny.
Lovecraft has fashioned from the New World's New England a land so very old, a world in touch with realities so alien, that Christianity--albeit peripherally present--is completely irrelevant, and mere sanity--the best one can reasonably hope for--depends upon a few ancient formulae and extraordinary personal luck.
The precisely imagined landscape convinces the reader, even though the prose often fails.
Lovecraft makes us believe in his world, and his world is genuinely terrifying.
“Ph'nglui mglw'nafh Cthulhu R'lyeh wgah'nagl fhtagn” Try saying that backward (or forward, which is equally challenging).H.P. Lovecraft is definitely the granddaddy of “Cosmic Horror” and Weird Fiction. He is often mentioned in science fiction/fantasy/ horror related websites and forums, not to mention myriad other kinds of websites. Reading fans raving about his works and seeing the numerous fan arts online make many of us genre fiction enthusiasts want to start getting into his fiction to see
This can be very disappointing and off-putting if you choose the wrong story to start with and you were expecting a quick thrilling read.This is where the unwieldy titled The Best of H.P. Lovecraft: Bloodcurdling Tales of Horror and the Macabre comes in.
The story is great though, worth a reread later on.The Picture in the House  - The book that drips blood; where the useless protagonist runs away just when things are heating up to a critical point, next time stay at home old chap!
The narrative is a little rambling for my taste, but a great story is embedded in there.The Shadow Out of Time  - Another story of involuntary body swap.
I wanted something to read before going to bed, so I picked up The Best of H.P.L. and started reading "The Call of Cthulu." Halfway through the story, I was thinking "Wow, this is really kind of hack-y and predictable." I was starting to feel rather afraid, though what of I couldn't tell you.
P. Lovecraft.He's not a terribly good writer, but his stories have a strange way of getting into your subconscious and taking root.
~3 years until he passed on to … what?These are horror stories dating back close to a century now, from one of the stranger American fiction writers.
The fictional worlds that Lovecraft created are located in temporally shifting realms which intersect with everyday reality in usually horrific ways, inhabited by ancient creatures having no relation to the life forms familiar to us.
(hide spoiler)]If you enjoy horror stories, you are certainly familiar already with Lovecraft.
It’s quite an impressive tale looking at the horror fiction aspect of an idea which has been taken up by many philosophers, particularly Kant, and (more recently) evolutionists.
So I was very optimistic about this volume of stories when I started to read it - particularly in regards to the 'infamous Cthulhu Mythos.'This volume opened with a brilliant foreword by Robert Bloch which described why Lovecraft deserves to be among the greats of horror writing and short story writing.
I found the supernatural and science fiction elements of his horror unique to him as while his language may have been similar to other short story artists the themes were completely unique and specific to his work.
Where most novels and short stories have either an unreliable* or a reliable** narrator Lovecraft wrote stories that had both at once in some strange way.
Well, I don't watch a lot of horror films, but now I see where they all rip off everything from: Lovecraft!I didn't read EVERY one of these stories, they got a bit repetitive after a while, but the stories were chilling and seeing how influential the storytelling is on modern horror is really interesting. Fascinating how much suspense can be put into a 10 page story. Yes, I had nightmares of tentacle-things after I finished. Don't make fun of me.
Beautifully written horror that many imitate (ahem, Stephen King) but few can pull off.
The real horror of Lovecraft isn't the scariness of the monsters or the gore, but concept that we are pointless blips of dust on the gaping maw of a chaotic, ageless, indifferent universe that constantly destroys itself for no reason at all.
Each story reminds you of how puny and ignorant you are but that's a good thing because every character finds out a little too much and goes crazy, gets eaten, sacrificed, has his face ripped off, teleported to another dimension or wakes up as a rotting corpse.
Good stuff!
I feel as though I know Lovecraft's work, for I've read those who influenced him (Edgar Allan Poe and Algernon Blackwood), and I've read or seen films by multitude of writers influenced by him, such as Steven King and Brian Lumley, for example.
I wasn't aware until now that Lovecraft created the Cthulhu Mythos which you'll find in music, comic books, video games, and who knows what else in modern culture.
Amazing, isn't it, how writers' imaginations can create generational uproars?
Reading it is your choice, of course, but Lovecraft has most likely worked his way in your psyche already.
:-) (And nearby Innsmouth isn't even a place you'd want to visit!)Unlike Poe, Lovecraft's horror is existential rather than situational; an atheist and an uncritical Darwinist (in "The Rats in the Walls," for instance, investigators probing below the sub-basement of Exham Priory find numerous bones of "Piltdown Men" --some trick, since the species was a hoax!), he regarded the universe as a bleak, meaningless place hostile to humanity, and presents his "Great Old Ones" or "Elder Gods" as the embodiment of that hostility.
Not having read him before, I was surprised to find these rather enjoyable. Not remotely disturbing or frightening to the modern mind, of course, but it is interesting to see the fears engendered by the scientific revolutions at the start of the 20thc. Also interesting to see how much of contemporary sci-fi/horror is simply a regurgitation of his ideas.
"There are my 'Poe' pieces and my 'Dunsany pieces' – but alas – where are any Lovecraft pieces?"-H.P. Lovecraft, 1929 What really makes Lovecraft interesting is the degree to which he was a student of the Horror genre. As his influential essay Supernatural Horror in Literature shows, Lovecraft was a voracious reader who went far afield in his search for interesting Horror authors. If Lovecraft hadn't been such an odd recluse, and instead pursued an academic career, we might not have had to wait
But the Mythos was not quite Lovecraft's original invention, it was instead an attempt to take the worlds of the previous great Horror authors and combine them into one grand setting.Probably the most unique aspect of Lovecraft's work was his combination of the chilling, aloof alienness of Dunsany's elves with the otherworldly, interdimensional terrors explored by Hodgson to produce that characteristic 'Cosmic Horror' which, while not invented by Lovecraft, was brought to a higher lustre in his works.Though the Lovecraft stories that I find most interesting are not his 'Poe pieces', his straight Horror works--which should not be surprising, since I'm not especially fond of Poe--but his Dunsany-inspired Fantasies, such as The Silver Key and several other entries in his Dream Cycle, which tend to be rather less formulaic recreations of the styles and forms of earlier authors, than explorations of the mind, and of possibility.
I felt like a dolt due to the number of words I had to look up, but I'm better for it, and it was worth it.
Today, it’s also undermined by Lovecraft’s use of the N-word in the name of a beloved black cat – this is probably an example of HPL not intending any disparagement of non-whites, but being blind to the consequences of his language.The second story, “The Picture in the House” is a ghoulishly humorous piece.
Probably this story is easier to appreciate when you are already familiar with other HPL works.Third is “The Outsider,” which appears in “The Lurking Fear and Other Stories,” and I have discussed it in my review of that work.“Pickman’s Model” is a wonderful case of Lovecraft bringing a traditional gothic horror element into the modern world and updating its gruesomeness in the process.
some of the stories were great, but all his protagonists were the same characters and it just got old after a while...
Lovecraft does seem to have a wide variance in style, with stories ranging from so floridly verbose that they’re almost unreadable (a la EA Poe) to more straightforward, but still atmospheric, little horror stories.
Updates: Foreword 1/24/15 Although I've read plenty of fiction inspired by Lovecraft, I don't think I've ever actually read anything of his, so this book seemed like a good place to start.
It's interesting, containing a little bio, history of the publication of his work, and a minianalysis of recurring themes in his stories and the history of the public appetite for horror fiction, relative to the public and political events of the day.
The Shadow Over Innsmouth – well, this might well be the greatest small town sci fi short story of all time and features a great chase sequence.
Here is the narrator of Pickman’s Model – “and I tell you, people knew how to live, and how to enlarge the bounds of life, in the old time!
The following lines from “The Dunwich Horror” perfectly describes the Lovecraftian hero – “Everyone seemed to feel himself in close proximity to phases of Nature and of being utterly forbidden, and wholly outside the sane experience of mankind.” Most of the heroes in Lovecraft’s stories undergo fantastical and other worldly experiences that are beyond ordinary men.
But the Lovecraftian heroes are also bound to feel lonely at times.
I learned his bio after reading the tales in this book, and that information illuminated many aspects of his stories such as race, gender, madness, etc.
While many tales are reminiscent of Poe and Hawthorne, many are pure Lovecraft.
I like all the works in this book, but I really like "The Outsider" because it is very different from the rest and "The Whisperer in the Darkness" because the building tension to a frenzied level reminds me of the classic 1950s film "Invasion of the Body Snatchers" - even though Lovecraft wrote his tale about 20 years earlier.
Mountains of Madness still is my favorite sci-fi story of all time. This book makes you feel less scared of life.
"Pickman's Model," like E. A. Poe's "The Oval Portrait," implies that art, in order to be safe, must be imaginative. It's too much reality that scares us, that drains the life from life and makes art a kind of repository of a life taken, like a ghost or zombie. Also interesting question and answer format--just like the Lydia Davis story I also read yesterday, "Jury Duty." I might try a form like it for my current book of tales connected by a frame-narrative. Love me some experiments in form. "In
Also interesting question and answer format--just like the Lydia Davis story I also read yesterday, "Jury Duty." I might try a form like it for my current book of tales connected by a frame-narrative.
Interesting after "Pickman's Model" since here, abandoning oneself to the trans-formative power of art seems the danger.
Perhaps the only way we can ever conceive of a real beyond is to imagine it as death--maybe that's what art and religion have in common.
Since I'm currently writing my opus magnum of short stories I've been obsessed with the form and this tale is so inspiring.
I've since found the editions introduced by S T Joshi (I think from Penguin) more informative and balanced in the selections.Among Lovecraft's influences, Poe and Dunsany are prominent, and we might perhaps trace much of the unique character of his world directly to these two.
From Poe there is the unrelenting descent to madness and doom, which Lovecraft has latch on to the whole world outside of the mind and human movements so crucial to Poe. This gives Lovecraft's work a kind of empirical disposition, which, combined with his penchant for rather rational and expedition-minded protagonists, makes almost all of his stories read like science fiction.The trace of Dunsany's influence is found in the mythological ambition of the fictional universe.
I only read about four stories and I think I'll check it out more in summer. Just not the right time right now.
I love the idea of short stories but when it comes to writing and reading them, I'm always thinking that I'd rather cut my teeth on something longer instead.
You’ll learn just by reading this story that Lovecraft doesn’t deal in ghosts and spirits, but in things far more terrifying.Pickman's Model: This one is about an artist of the macabre variety whose subjects may or may not be derived from his imagination.
I'd love to see this one in some sort of film capacity.The Dunwich Horror: This is one of the least typical Lovecraft stories in the collection.
It’s not easy for a book to be scary - movies can easily make you jump, but without the benefit of graphic scenes and loud noises, a book has to do a lot more work to get you scared - and Lovecraft manages just that.
His stories sometime link in subtle ways too - you will recognize things in one story that got mentioned in another that in principle had nothing to do with it (they are not sequels), so you slowly get the feeling of a larger world with a lot going on underneath.
When someone says how they were paralyzed with fear because of the horrible architecture of the place, it’s not easy to feel sympathetic.
I found three of his short story collections at the library and chose to begin with this one largely because it contained the story "The Call of Cthulhu."The first few short stories reminded me a lot of Edgar Allan Poe, in particular "The Picture in the House," "The Outsider," and "In the Vault" : they were short, had a lot of gothic atmosphere, and usually involved some ironic twist at the end.
I thought the "ironic twist" of some of the stories was a bit weak and obvious, but overall the bizarreness of these alien races lurking in the corners of our own society was what makes these stories memorable.
Well-crafted and well-plotted, the freakish and disturbing nature of his meticulously thought-out lore comes to the fore in that and numerous other stories from his work.Herein lies the problem: Lovecraft is a fine writer, a composer that can't help but remind one of a latter-day, emotionally disturbed Dickens.
What I mean here is, and this can be applied to his plotting as well, that after two or three stories, the remainder kind of fall into a predictable rut, right down to the adjectives.
Will said narrator's torments be one of a few variants of twisted, ancient space evils that barely appear and are as easily disposed of as Ewoks?
Of all the stories included in this compilation/anthology, I would consider such stories as "The Rats in the Walls," "The Outsider," "The Music of Erich Zahn," and "The Dreams in the Witch House," to be my favorites; and as for some of the stories I enjoyed the least, I'd have to say that only "The Dunwich Horror" and "The Thing on the Doorstep" were the dullest.
Another relatively trivial aspect of the book is the fact that it's very nice to have when killing time on the go; as many of the short stories can be read quickly and efficiently -- considering many of them are on the shorter side, with exception of the lengthier novellas towards the end.
"The Dreams in the Witch House" is an example of this second set of stories, which stay with you long after the reading.
Lovecraft's horror usually involves pseudo-scientific phenomena, such as travel between dimensions or across time, and aliens, hybrids, and mutants rather than supernatural creatures.
Often "supernatural" phenomena are reimagined as the products of alien science, as in "The dreams in the witch house." But the real horror comes from Lovecraft's vision of a world completely hostile or at best indifferent to mankind, where mankind's aspirations and hopes are as significant as the dreams of a cow in line for the abattoir.
I read some selections after I verbally assaulted Lovecraft at a gaming session of Dungeons and Dragons.
It was pointed out that Lovecraft is one of the intellectual parents of D&D and I had not read any Lovecraft.
I was told diplomatically that I needed, "Know your facts before you go shooting your mouth off." So, I read some Lovecraft.
It was kind of what I expected.
Dark and gothic with with wet slimy gore rather than dry dusty gore.
Lovecraft has a strong if morbid understanding of the unknowable.
When it comes to American Horror authors I prefer Poe, But Lovecraft has his place.

This is perhaps the best starting point for all those interested in finding just what this Lovecraft cat was all about. All of his key stories are here; The Outsider, The Rats In The Walls, The Dunwich Horror, The Colour Out Of Space (Lovecraft's own personal favorite, and more. This may not be the definitive collections like those edited by S.T. Joshi or the uber-classy Library of America volume, but this is the best introduction one can get to H.P. Lovecraft. It's the book that got me hooked.
