https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/578644.Billy_Liar
His boss at the undertakers (a comedy job) asks him to post 200 Christmas calendars out, but he doesn’t do it so he still has them stashed under his bed months later.
His boss also asks him to post out some invoices, but he doesn’t do it so he still has them stashed under his bed months later.
He knows he’s trapped in this small stifling town where nobody is on his wavelength.
They’re supposed to stir up concupiscence, so with one of his unenthusiastic girlfriends he’s continually slipping a pill or two into her tea then hopping about for the next 15 minutes waiting for them to take effect.
It is this quality that stands Billy Liar head and shoulders above others of the time, it hasn't dated because at its heart there are no politics, young men still struggle with their identity and purpose in life and suffer from being misunderstood by those closest to them.Please, go find this book, I can't see how you wouldn't enjoy meeting Billy Liar.
If things couldn’t have started to go downhill, this book was another one that I highly anticipated that failed to deliver the fun comedy that I was looking for.
Although Billy Liar, a lad from Yorkshire was an interesting character, the majority of the jokes that were featured, I simply didn’t find amusing.
Baring in mind that this book was published way back in the 1950s so I feel that it fitted that time period more comfortably.
It was a story that I simply couldn’t relate to.
I struggled to connect to the characters and started to skip paragraphs because my enjoyment by this point was all but lost.
I’ve been meaning to read Billy Liar for many years.
The 1963 John Schlesinger film adaptation with Tom Courtenay and Julie Christie is a firm favourite and remains etched into my memory.
Billy Fisher, the central character, is an intelligent, creative, educated, lower middle class 19 year old who is frustrated by his surroundings and dull clerical job at a local undertakers.
Billy dreams of moving to London, to work as a comic scriptwriter, and he has received some encouragement from an established comedian.
The book is every bit as good as the film.
I can't stop laughing with Latin American humor but simply couldn't get in the same happy mood when presented with the British variety.
There's humor even in the act of death, which is pretty much the end of everything about a person.
A baby who gurgles and shows his toothless gums is always a jolly sight to see, but an old man who does the same thing is creepy."Billy Liar" and "Lucky Jim" are the old England who smiles.
Funny to some, funereal to others.
But still my funny bone remained frozen in vinegar.
So let's just say that between the two of them, Waterhouse and Sillitoe were responsible for stretching the boundaries of what could be accomplished in fiction, refining what had already been achieved by Kingsley Amis with "Lucky Jim" and John Braine with "Room at the Top"; and of course, more would follow shortly -- Stan Barstow's "A Kind of Loving" and Shelagh Delaney's play "A Taste of Honey" were waiting in the wings, ready to continue the trend of uncompromising realism combined with a new analytical approach to the social problems plaguing the times.Some people may feel that "Billy Liar" is nothing but a comic diversion.
This terrific fearlessly funny book reflects the mind of a type of kid reluctantly becoming an adult.
Billy fisher is a dreamy, ironic, funny kid confronted with conformity and small minds in a small town in England circa 1953.
In the early 1960's the Prime Minister of England famously went by helicopter to meet with Mick Jagger to get an answer to the question that baffled parents around the United Kingdom.
The question was basically, "what the bloody hell is wrong with kids these days?" Jagger gave an honest answer, "they don't want to work".
From BBC Radio 4 Extra:Stephen Tompkinson reads Keith Waterhouse's classic comic story about a young dreamer who fantasies about a more exciting life.http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b01f9y2q
Billy Fisher is an Everyteen at that point in his life where he's getting strenuous pressure to put away childish things, but he's still spending a lot of time in his fantasy world (literally), and failing quite catastrophically to take either his job or the business of multiple girlfriends and engagement rings at all seriously.When I was younger I saw an adaptation of this on TV and thought the tragedy was that Billy *almost* gets out, catches a train to London with the girl that's actually got a spark about her, starts on the path to becoming a comedy writer, makes something of his life; before bottling it and having to live in grim grey Yorkshire for the rest of his natural.

First book from England that really reminded me of my family and taught me why my dad referred to my old parakeet Casper, as "Budgie." The characters all seemed like sad caricatures, but the reader can't exactly buy into their two dimensional appearance because Billy is not a reliable narrator.
Anyway, this story is a simple, funny, kinda sad look at Billy, a young guy who feels like he should be doing more with his life and is tired of the b.s. Billy is like the kid in the back of the class who creates detailed drawings to escape the boredom of learning grammar.
To entertain himself and numb the pain of boredom, he lies and jokes constantly.
Not sure how objective I can be about a book I read and loved at just the right age to see a lot of myself in the protagonist.But I reread it recently, and it IS lovely.
It's sort of a Northern working class boy book, but with nothing worthy about it whatsoever; it's fantastically funny, surprisingly heartfelt, and frighteningly realistic when it comes to what goes on in his addled brain.
And in the end, of course, it's about failure.
For a dreamer like Billy, it's only ever going to end one way.
This was so unlike the movie and totally unlike the television comedy series, I was taken aback. Was I disappointed? No, not at all. It was far, far better. Darker, more despairing, almost uncomfortable to find it funny; more poignant, more believable. In fact, I wondered if I remembered the movie at all accurately now - the telly sit-com was plain awful, more so, I think, after reading this book.Poor Billy Fisher, imprisoned in grim reality, sharing a cell with his own anarchic imagination, hopeless to the end.
really enjoyed this book and makes me think of the first teenagers at the time of the late 1950's where things were changing and like the plot of billy who lives in his own little world as cannot really cope with reality which catches up with him
So with the underage drinking, back-talking to parents, premarital sex and direct (at least for the 1950s) references to birth control, I imagine that this book was quite rebellious and ground-breaking in its day.Is it impossible for Billy to tell the truth, or is he merely a highly intelligent and imaginative youth, trapped in a conventional, working-class, North-of-England, why-you-reading-all-them-bloody-books-you-think-you’re-better-than-your-old-man type of upbringing?William Fisher is living a life of avoidance, dodging every opportunity to express emotion, attachment and duty, while he figures out what he really wants to do.
I’ve also just realized that I’ve used an awful lot of hyphens in this review.
I invite you to enter the kingdom of Ambrosia - a fantasy land invented by its beloved President: Billy Fisher, in order to escape from the boring Yorkshire town of Stradhoughton in the 1950's.
"You want to make up your mind what you do want to do" his mother tells him (how many of us have heard that before!) Of course, like all lazy sods, what he wants to be is a scriptwriter.
Billy is "just about thraiped wi' Stradhoughton" He tells everyone that he is off to London.

The Smiths - William, It Was Really Nothing
4,5
Some of this is funny but on the whole it is the tragic tale of how lying becomes a habit and a way of life: Billy lives in a world of delusion where facts and the truth no longer play any role. Does that sound familiar to any of us today?! It should do.
Later: I did finally find a used copy of this book, with the exact same cover this image has.
He lays in bed every morning and has enumerated his mother's traditional calls up the stairs--the one that usually gets him to finally move is "Your boiled egg will be stone cold!" He amuses himself by saying random irrelevant things to his family members all the while keeping a bizarre running interior dialogue of the things he would like to say in response, and occasionally does.I thought I was the only one who did this.
I've been trying to read Billy Liar for years, since I first heard The Decemberists song of the same name.
(My 13 year old self would murder me right now for saying that.)There are very few literary characters with whom I'm familiar that I feel a real connection with, but Billy is most definitely one of them.
But then I realized, shit, if it provoked so much feeling in me, I need to give it its full rating.
But let it be known, I wish I could give Billy Liar 10 out of 5 stars.
I am surprised that compulsive liars can lie with such nonchalance, but I suppose it makes sense?A quote I enjoyed: The people walked about as though they were really going somewhere. I stood for a quarter of an hour at the time, watching them get off the buses and disperse themselves about the streets. I was amazed and intrigued that they should all be content to be nobody but themselves.A line that made me smile: In fact Arthur's American accent had become so pronounced that it was difficult to understand what he was singing about.
Even reading this again in 2010 there is something painful and familiar about the character of Billy.
Yes, it is funny but I love it for the way Keith Waterhouse created a character so real that I just wanted to be his friend, buy him a beer, help him get rid of the wretched calenders and set him up with the right girlfriend.
The surroundings, the work and the era are from a bygone age but I dare anyone to read it and not identify with at least one thing that he finds himself doing or willing him to make the right decisions.
There are some funny moments but it is a dark book about disillusioned dreams of advancement and being stuck in one's social condition. The entire book is filled with hopelessness, especially from the reader's point of view at the main character's constant denial of reality and unwillingness to do something about it. It was quite an upsetting read, but well written. For the girl in the mousy hair, Liz' character portrayal, it gains an extra star.
Short but interesting book. I wish I hadn't read the introduction though as, instead of an overview of the author and his other works, or a short bio of the author, as I'd been expecting, it was a quite detailed synopsis of the story itself. So by the time I read the story I felt it had been somewhat spoiled.
One of my all time favourites. Read this more times than any other book. Absolutely love it.
One of the 1001 books to read before you die. I liked it, it was ok. I won't read it again and I'm a bit unsure where the funny bits of this "comedy" were. Not bad
His northern family and roots can't stop him dreaming of a 'number one life' in London, scriptwriting for comedians.
He feels held back by his family, he's in a boring dead end job.
Billy takes no responsibility at work, not posting calendars that he's trying ot get rid of months later, he strings along two women and even gives the same ring to both!
He's SUCH a liar, it's good to watch him squirm and try to keep dreaming.An important short work, one that reminded me of Walter Mitty, of a flawed individual that could be anyone you see around you.
I have no idea what made me decide to read this and, upon reading the first chapter I was sure I was going to hate it.
It appeared very much 'of its time' - dated and very much a regional piece of fiction.However, I persevered (as I always do with books) and by about chapter three was totally into it.
Don't get me wrong, it's no brilliant work of fiction, however, it is good fun and charming right until the end.
To liven things up a little, he uses his imagination and tells a few lies.
Pointless lies in the main.
As you can imagine, hilarity ensues.
