https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1111.The_Power_Broker
The first time I got a job with benefits and sat through a presentation explaining the HMO plan, life insurance, and “401K,” I did feel old in a certain kind of way, but there was a sense of the absurd to it, as if I were in drag as an adult, staggering around in my mother’s too-big high heels and smudgy lipstick in a silly effort to look like a grown woman.For the past few years I’ve had the sense of wearing an oversized grownup life that wasn’t actually mine, while that magical rite of passage into adulthood continued to elude me.
Having finally finished The Power Broker, I feel much more like a grownup, and believe it or not, I’m pretty into that.When I was a little kid, I felt that the adults around me had a thick, rich, complicated understanding of the way the world worked.
At nearly 1,200 pages of text (not including endnotes and the index), Robert Caro’s The Power Broker is a big book.
I don’t want to give the impression that I didn’t like The Power Broker simply because Robert Moses was an enormous ass.
Jacobs, the author of The Death and Life of Great American Cities, was an activist who, in the words of Caro himself, became the only person to ever beat Robert Moses, when she helped stop his Lower Manhattan Expressway.
Caro writes that Moses lost his power, but I don’t see it that way.
Robert Moses, like the semi-fictitious Charles Foster Kane, is the sort of figure that might inspire a 'Great Man' view of history, where single individuals are the sword-points for the sweeping changes in human society.
Perhaps there is some intermediate truth between these two views - that there indeed are impersonal societal forces, but also that there are individuals who have the capacity to manipulate or order an institutional apparatus to 'speed up' the processes of social development.The story of Robert Moses' life is a narrative structure, with rising and falling action.
This is a book about power...And parks.For forty-four years Robert Moses through the control of different institutions, often whose formal authorities he had designed and drafted into legislation, created a power base that enabled him to escape the constraints laid upon bureaucrats and elected officials and to stamp his vision upon the developing city of New York.
Yet his power over public finance and social decision-making was greater than that of any elected official, including at times the President of the United States (His nemesis, however, was the president's wife, Eleanor Roosevelt, who was also unelected to anything but just as crafty).Moses created his power by creating the laws which New York State politicians passed without reading or understanding the fine print.
And even the 1970's financial collapse of the City was not enough to attract this approval.Yet other administrative positions, often held simultaneously in the City and the State, gave Moses blanket-control of every significant planning and planning-variance decision within the City.
Searching for the answer later in the day brought me to Robert Moses, which then brought me to this book, and as much as I loved this behemoth, I'm still trying to figure out if I'm in a better place viz-a-viz humanity for having read it.Want to read a good horror book?
How is it even possible that in the 20th century, in one of the greatest cities in the world, that one man could garner so much power and then weild it for 40 years?
He was the chairman of the New York Power Authority, the chairman of the State Council of Parks, and the head of Title I, which oversaw all the public housing in New York City—and this is not to mention his membership on the City Planning Commission and the City Youth Board—and his eventual title as the City Construction Coordinator, which gave him control over nearly all public works in the city.Robert Moses was a master builder.
I read this a long time ago, but reviewed it (and got angry about it again) after I learned that in The Trumps: Three Generations That Built an Empire the corrupt business dealings between Moses and Fred Trump (father of "Don the Con" - President Elect) are detailed.
Their shady dealings included claims of quid pro quo over land and development deals with one where Trump took a powerful role on a city council to make decisions to help Moses and Trump helped get Moses appointed as the president of the World's Fair.
These themes keep the pace of the book moving and ensure the reader pays attention, to see the apparent changes as the chapters (and events in time) progress.Moses’ hunger for power could be said to have been planted in a home run by his mother, who accepted no other opinion but her own.
That said, there is no doubt that any reader who takes the time to read the book will come away with at least some sour taste in their mouth for all Moses did in New York City.
Apparently, it can.They say that biographers identify with their subject, and Robert Caro was not untouched by the megalomania that drove Robert Moses.
The repetition of his points about Moses and power, how he got it, maintained it, and exercised it, was mind-numbing.
Even when Homer does it, my eye glances it over it, and Caro's not quite Homer; and since I was listening and not reading, I had to hear every single last one.
For anyone with an interest in New York, urban planning and development, the sociology of power, or the nature of evil, it's a mandatory, if lengthy, read.
Brilliant!
I really don't know what to say about this book.
I would never have believed that a book about parks, highways, and bridges, many, many, of each, would be so interesting.
Caro is a brilliant writer.
This is the 4th of his 5 published works that I have read and he is still my favorite non-fiction writer.
The book is very long and quite an undertaking, so is probably not for everyone.
If you are interested specifically in the history of NYC, then this is a necessity for understanding the growth and decay of the city in the 20th century.
This biography of Robert Moses—the highly influential urban planner who shaped the modern city during the 20th century—was first published in 1975, during a period of prolonged urban decline, adding another layer of complexity for today’s reader.
Holy mother of all that is holy. If you've got any attachment to New York, any interest in city planning, and any stamina whatsoever, RUN (do not walk) to get your own copy and read, read, read!!!
I wrote in my updates some of my feelings while reading it, and a life long New Yorker I felt that reading this book opened up the history and inner workings of my hometown in a way that no other story has done so far.
Nonetheless, this is a GREAT book, it should be required reading , or at least parts of it , for all New Yorkers native or not, so that there next drive down the FDR or up the Henry Hudson Parkway , or their next visit to Jones Beach becomes not just a stream of cars on the way somewhere but a reconstruction of a time long ago when New York as it exists today did not exist.
A massive, magisterial work on the man who built the roads, parks, etc.
in New York.
I'd been meaning to read this book for a long time because the author's continuing books on Lyndon Johnson are superb.
The Power Broker did not disappoint.
At times this bordered almost on too much information and there were certainly some thematic redundancies.
But these are mere quibbles.
Yet, this is a story, after all, of Robert Moses and if I had to recommend one book about evil genius, it would not be The Prince, but, instead, The Power Broker.
Highly recommended.
I left New York for law school and found my way back to Brooklyn, and I live in the neighborhood with the most subway options in the entire city, save Times Square, though the latter is more accurately described as a superterranean circle of Hell than a neighborhood.
Queens, almost entirely unpopulated until the early 20th Century, and therefore an excellent candidate for massive subway expansion, is only lightly dappled with subway access; huge swathes of outer Brooklyn, New York's most populous borough, are denied viable subway options; even gigantic portions of Manhattan are bereft, leading many to forget that the island has quite a bit of waistline extending beyond 8th Avenue.
Most people who obtain power will gloss over on how they obtained power and only reveal the positives, so we all end up thinking that powerful got there because they just did everything according to the book.
Nobody gives you power charitably, you have to work hard to get it, and being nice does not fast track you to getting power; it makes you irrelevant quickly.This book is so great (did I use this word again; disclaimer, I am not paid for this review) that you get a birds eye view of how this man achieved power, what he was able to do with power, how masterfully he kept on gaining more power and ultimately how he lost it.Robert Moses wanted power for only one thing: to build highways, roads, bridges and parks.
Although many folks know he is responsible for parks, bridges, roads, and tunnels - did you know that he reformed the budget system for the state of New York?
Did you know that he spent his entire young adulthood trying to reform government?
Did you know that the man most responsible for the highway, bridges, and tunnels of NYC, never had a driver’s license?
He was chauffer driven all his life.Interesting study of a mulit-faceted man who points out the dangers of judging folks that do great things on either only one dimension or the same scale we use to evaluate our private lives.
He began as a reformer; over time, he arrogated more and more power to himself--and still remained rather out of sight as a figure.
The Cross-Bronx Expressway, for instance, displaced many people.
How could he remain for so long a period of time as "below the radar"?
The Triborough, the Throgs Neck, the Henry Hudson, the Bronx-Whitestone, among others.
He created parks such as Jones Beach, Fire Island, and Bethpage.
And on the listing goes.A must read for those interested in Moses and in the power of public authorities.
This is one of those books that takes such a deep look at society that no matter what you thought about our country before, you'll think something different after you're done.
This is the book to read if you're interested in Robert Moses, the history of New York City, or of urban planning, or the creation of the idea of suburbia, or a million other details of life in the first half of the twentieth century, when the whole world looked to New York as the place where the future had just arrived ten minutes ago.
It changes the way you perceive the world.
Caro shows how money, politics and power work behind the scenes to determine events in ways we ordinarily never see.
We learn how Robert Moses begins with values, ideals and dreams, with ambition and drive.
As he pushes his new ideas forward he runs into the establishment, an entrenched society based on wealth and connections.
Robert Moses’ story exposes the raw nature of politics and its practitioners revealing a stark brutal reality.
We see how generational ideals outlive their relevance in a rapidly changing world and how power based on new paradigms replaces old.
The politics and human nature don’t.
Moses acquired loyal followers himself, including those who could help him finance his projects as well as build them.His first big success was Jones Beach which he not only turned into an attractive park but realized that it needed roads so that people in the city could get there.
In one project where he hadn't the power to put a road through the land of rich people, he condemned part of the land of a small farmer, in fact, the middle of the land so that the farm wouldn't be profitable any more.
He no longer really knew the people who used his roads and bridges.)Moses was forced out when he was 78 years old.
Wow. Having just finished this, it's hard to say which achievement is more monumental: Robert Moses's commandeering of New York's byzantime infrastructure to serve his own ambitious vision--the book makes an open-and-shut case for Moses, whom many have never heard of and never served in public elected office, being the most important and powerful man in the history of New York--or Robert Caro's ability to write a definitive biography of this subject, spanning 50+ years, and unexpectedly detailing how New York works in the process.
I'm so happy to be moving on to other, shorter books now.
Since I first came to New York, I was looking out for a coup of Cairo's beloved biography of city builder/ruiner Robert Moses, which, half a century after its first printing, remains so popura that it literally took me five years of searching to find a copy of this massive, million word tome that didn’t cost 30$.
But it’s the same story, mostly, Moses using the powers he carefully accumulated and the indifference of the city and state elite to destroy nice things in New York and replace them with upper class amenities and hideous highways.
Moses was in power for so long (essentially, 1924-1968; officially, 1934-1968) that he tangled with everyone who had a say in how NYC or the state of New York was run.
Caro fails to mention this, but I cannot help but think that, once Moses was duped out of his Triborough Bridge and Tunnel Authority chairmanship, one of the reasons that he was not able to regain power is due to how poorly he treated so many people for so long: running roughshod over them, failing to even consider alternate or competing points of view, talking down and arrogantly towards others.
At over a million words, Caro obviously has the space to include a good deal of detail.Robert Moses, if you're still reading by this point, is the subject of this biography.
Caro's book details his life story, showing how Moses' drive 'got things done' in and around the city.
Every page draws you in, details and stories and glimpses that make Moses and the times in which he live come to life.There are so many amazing details and sections to this book that picking any one would detract from the whole.
WOW, WOW, OH MY GOD, This is one of those books that has you calling everyone you know telling them how they must read this book.
This is one of those books where your a different person when you finish the book then when you start(,and thats not due to the time factor involved in reading this big ass sucker)  For many years Ive been noticing this super highly rated, pulitzer prize winning book in my on line excavations.
I read most of my books audibly, so I was really dissapointed when I couldnt find it on audible.
Ostensibly a biography of Robert Moses, the building and public works commissioner of New York from the '20s through 1969, it's many things: a detailed account of urban planning and inner-city strife, a sweeping chronicle of New York politics and official wrangling, a study of the impact of indifferent government and careless bureaucrats on everyday lives.
Moses backs projects that range from mostly beneficial (state and city parks, bridges) to ones that inconvenience or actively harm New Yorkers (the chapter on New York's subway system comes to mind), all for the sake of maintaining his private fiefdom against all comers.
But he is always wise, and have a passion for what he is going to do.Ch5 (Day 5 - 04.15.2018)Moses spent his first three years in this chapter to work for his first system: efficiency-rating, which is a thorough plan based on scientific and logical management.
It is his turn to educate Childs that “just didn’t understand how politics worked”	* “Under Belle Moskowitz’s tutelage, Bob Moses had changed from an uncompromising idealist to a man willing to deal with practical considerations.”Ch 8 - Albany Inner Circle (Day 8 - 04.20.2018)Robert is assisting Al Smith in his reform.
Robert Caro is the greatest written story teller of the last 100 years. This book is well worth the 1161 page investment. I guarantee you will love this book.
