https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17446564-frost-and-fire
I will always love Ray Brabury's books.They are never boring, never the same, they never have long descriptions or silly dialogues.It's simply a beautiful story.
Ateş ve Buz bir distopya diyebiliriz sanırım ya da orta halli bir bilim-kurgu filmi. İnanılmaz akıcı ve dikkat çekici bir konusu var. İnsanların bencilliklerini bir kenara bırakmasının zorluğunu bir kez daha görüyoruz. Sevdiğim bir hikâye oldu.
Loved it, except for the ending. Was it supposed to convey hope? Optimism? Too rushed, poorly handled - unlike the rest of the story.
His voice is very calm even when something hectic or exciting is happening.This is the story of a species stranded on a planet not their own.
In that handful of days they grow, mature, breed, age and die.
Not Sim.Sim is our hero and he is hellbent on finding a way to expand those 8 days.
He is an unselfish hero and eventually succeeds.This is short, which is fitting, but I think it could have been 300 pages and Bradbury would have told the story in an engrossing way.
Some short stories are obviously MEANT to be so.
Ray Bradbury's short story "Frost and Fire" is one of my all-time favorites - one that I first read as a young adult and really stimulated my imagination. I recently listened to an old audio performance of this story, but nothing beats the written version in my view!
Ateş ve buz kurgusu o kadar güzel bir hikayeydi ki okurken sürekli, filmi olsa da izlesek, dedim. Verilen her bir ayrıntı zihnimde canlandırdığım dünyaya ayrı bir katman ekledi ve sonuçta hayal ettiğim insan tipi inanılmaz bir varlıktı. Yeri geldi şaşırdım yeri geldi korktum bu gerçekten de mümkün olabilir mi, diye.Ancak tüylerimi diken diken eden kısım, kitabın içindeki göl isimli hikayenin son sahnesiydi. Boğulan kızın yıllar sonra bulunması ve kumdan kaleyi tamamlamak üzere adamın gitmesi beni çok etkiledi.Her bir hikayesi ayrı bir tat, ayrı bir duygu veren ateş ve buz mutlaka okunması gereken bir kitap.
Bradbury wrote an excellent short story. It's an intriguing tale, in which people mature rapidly and live only 8 days, due to radiation and extreme weather conditions. The protagonist is a brave and hopeful young man who embarks on a means to improve quality of life for all. I dare not give any more away.
Classic from the master. Second time reading thisRay Bradbury had such a wide range of subjects and styles of writing. This simple short story was one I had enjoyed in high school, but as I grew older I see far more depth to the story and the characters in it.
Sim is born with eight days to live, it is the lifespan of his people. This is his story.Totally unexpected find short story. Whatever I say will be a spoiler. I recommend you spend an hour and enjoy this tale.
An outstanding short story about life on a planet where lifespans last only 8-11 days, due to the harsh extremes in temperatures and climate. It details the life of Sim as he seeks a chance at a longer and better life.
3.5/5
Good idea, just not fully explored. Think this idea seed may have been more fully grown elsewhere.
Почему нельзя вместе жить там, где скалы защищают лучше?Кайон рассмеялся, сжимая в руке острый камень.
Так всегда думает тот, кто сильнее...Жестокий (обычный) мир, где целая человеческая жизнь длинною лишь в 8 дней, 8 дней на рождение, взросление, увядание и смерть между пламенем и льдом, в котором большинство похоронили даже призрак надежды - металлическое зернышко на холме, но рождается Сим - идеалист, негероический герой, мечтатель: "Нельзя же только сидеть, да разговаривать, да есть, — возразит он.
А такие люди как Сим не дают человечеству сгореть в пламени или замерзнуть во льдах, они дают нам передышку между кошмарными снами и надежду, что они кончаться эти сны.
Ray Bradbury's short story "Frost and Fire" is a great read and the first step in my process of re-discovering my favorite childhood author "Ray Bradbury" who helped opened my mind to the world of possibilities.This story had the same bouquet, the same flavor and taste that I fondly remember has a hallmark of Bradbury's style of storytelling.
Ray Bradbury was so much more than a mere Author of Sci-Fi stories.
He was a master Story-teller and practised his craft of entertaining his audience while pushing the edge in a way that only a true master can.A classic story of fear , despair and hope, where hope wins out , or so we hope...
It was very interesting, presenting a species whose exposure to radiation has made their lifespan only eight days, for that clan. Other clans have life spans of eleven days. There is war to take over the caves of those who have eleven days of living. But Sim, the protagonist of the story, sees a ship and does whatever he needs to do to take Lyte (his sweetheart) to the ship. He also brings others to the ship so that they can fix it. Their journey takes them to another world, where they hope their lives will be longer.
The headliner for the collection of stories known as Guys Read: Other Worlds. The premise is due to radiation, the population on another planet is only able to survive 8 days. Their short existence is hindered further because the planet gets too hot during the day and too cold during the night, so the only time for living and enjoyment is dawn and dust. The helpful thing is that the population is equipped with telepathy transmission from previous people. All together it forms a very interesting Other World/
I can't find the exact addition I read (is a short story). I liked the story, and can imagine it morphed itself into one or more Star Trek episodes. My only problem with this story is that several sections became incredibly boring and tedious - a common problem I have with ray Bradbury stores; how Bradbury takes a fine story, and bloats 50% of it with pointless verbiage, text which could have been edited out with zero damage to the underlying tale.
Wow, what a creative and unique short story. It had my imagination aflutter immediately, and really drew me in. An eight day lifespan -- what a nightmare, indeed!Sim was a compelling main character, and their hellish world was fascinating. I'd love to see this as a movie!A great story emphasising the fleeting quality of life.
I recommend this short story to anyone and everyone. This story made me realize how short life is and to enjoy it to the fullest. The passion, and bravery that came from the protagonist moved me. I cried, felt joy, anger, remorse for the characters. Even if you aren't much of a reader or not a reader at all, this story needs to be read! 10/10
"Frost and Fire" is an excellent short story in the form of an audiobook. I usually don't like short stories, but I liked this one. It was listed in our library as a book for children. I don't think it is that. Too much violence.
7/10
to me frost and fire is the best
Wonderful story..one of our fav..
I like it.
A beautiful spellbinding read, one that feels all too short and leaves one wanting more.
Truly amazing and realistic SF story written almost 60 years ago!
in love with this one. he's so stubborn and he did what needed to be done
It is one of my favourite books since I was maybe 10 or 12! I like to re-read it every now and then.
