https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/104029.The_World_of_Christopher_Robin
Because of these poems, I think I'll be six now for ever and ever.

So delightful. I listened as an audiobook but want to buy & read aloud to my babies as they grow.
This book was interesting, and i liked majority of the poems. Some of the poems confused me though because it seemed like they left out words of the poem but they didn't. Anyways it was a pretty good book
My daughter and I both loved the poems in this book. She begged me to read a few to her every morning.
The World of Christopher Robin contains both When We Were Very Young and Now We Are Six--two works of poetry for the young which I read in separate editions when I was a small person.
When I became a grownup with my own small person, I got this delightfully illustrated ("with new illustrations in full color") to share with my son.
He wasn't quite as interested in the poems as he was in the Winnie-the-Pooh stories.
I seem to remember being a bit disappointed that there wasn't more Christopher Robin and Pooh in these books myself--at first.
My sister and I got talking about Winnie the Pooh characters, and she said her husband is an Eeyore and that all of us are at least one of them. That started a fun conversation and she told me to check out any Pooh Books I could find. So the librarian and I had fun looking around the library for any we could find. I have some video's to watch too. This is a lot about Christopher Robin, and the country he lives near. And it probably might be one of the best to start with. Fun Fun Fun!!!
The next minute you’re reading a long story poem about a knight whose armor doesn’t squeak having his pride lowered by finding another knight whose armor does not squeak.
I liked all the poems in Now We Are Six. My favorite poem is “The End.”Connor (age 7): Two stars.
He acts like he doesn’t know anything.Emalee (age 11): One star.
And, it felt like he had four different girlfriends throughout the poems.Bennet (age 12): Five Stars.
I haven’t read any other poems like them.
These are poems that were written and published before the Winnie-the-Pooh stories, so there are a number of references to Christopher Robin and a very few to "Edward Bear," and the rest are unrelated poems, generally from a child's perspective.I was surprised that my 3-year-old, upon learning that these were poems and not more Winnie-the-Pooh stories, adjusted his expectations quickly and was content to listen to "the poems" each night at bedtime.
I found the rhythm of the poems to be a bit lacking; given that we were listening to the authorized version of the audiobook and the narrator still couldn't quite get the beats to work tells me that it is indeed a flaw in the writing.
Nevertheless, this book truly express joyful times and contains two volumes: "When we were very young" that contains the world of Christopher Robin when he was three, and "Now we are six" which has more adventures of his childhood, when he passed from 4 to 6 years old.
All the poems reflect the love of a caring father and how the little adventures of his boy inspired him to create very wonderful poems.
It is truly fascinating to explore the life of the author and his son and of course approach to these wonderful books that will take you back to the delightful age of childhood.
Other poems of calling his friend different names because his friend doesn't mind.
Each poem is more silly than the next, but always a fun read.
Review:These poems are cheerful and loving.
Children will love the silliness and the creative use of words to make the poem flow well.
Possible Lesson Plans:Students can write poems about their favorite stuffed animal and make up silly stories about them.
Students can also pick a poem from the book and find parts they don’t understand and do a little searching online for its deeper meaning.
Awards the book has received (if any)Appropriate grade level(s): First grade through Second gradeOriginal 3-line summary: Out of the poem book, I read Buckingham Palace.
A little girl and her brother go to the look at the palace every day.
Original 3-line review: I absolutely adore A.A. Milne's writing style.
This poem, in particular, is excellent for beginning readers, given that the pattern is very simple and accessible.
2-3 possible in-class uses: This poem can be used for lessons on rhyming words, and even creating a small poem following the pattern.
I read and reviewed these separately earlier today, so this is basically just for my own records.
Rating is averaged from the two volumes - Now We Are Six earned itself 3 stars, while When We Were Very Young got 4.
Honestly, I think WWWVY is the better collection, although possibly because I have a nostalgic love for a number of the poems in it, including "Halfway Down", "The King's Breakfast", and one of my favourite child poems of all time, that of the bratty James James Morrison Morrison Weatherby George Dupree in "Disobedience" (or, as I would call it, "Lucky Escape").
Last weekend I watched a movie Goodbye Christopher Robin (2017) about the story of AA Milne and Christopher Robin themselves. Therefore, I had kind of a different feeling while reading. However, I love the illustrations within. Likewise, I sometimes sing the poems while reading (how one couldn't?).
Read and KeepFun, creative, and a wide variety of poetic structure. Children’s poems that aren’t obvious and simplistic. Some some are light and fun, others touch on the deeper emotions of childhood. A pleasure to read at any age.
I’ve never read anything A.A. Milne has written except Winnie the Pooh, so seeing something different but still just as entertaining and adorable was enjoyable. I particularly liked the introductions (I know, that’s weird), but Milne’s voice in them captures a child’s so well it’s uncanny.
This is a beautifully done collection of poems written by A.A. Milne for his son. Charming poetry expressing British humor. The illustrations by Ernest H. Shepard are an added joy.
I love this poem book! I think every kid should have this read to them! So cute!
Very well done! I love the British narrator. He does a superb job narrating the poems and making them come to life. The music between poems is just right. Highly recommended.
Fun, sweet, a touch eccentric :)
The book did have a little bit of trouble keeping my attention through a long silent read, but poetry really shouldn't be read silently or all at once from begining to end.
The verses almost always incorporate rhyme but in a non-traditional way that reflects a carefree childish nature with little bits of "micro" pattern.
In comparison with many other poetry forms, I really love the variety offered by books such as this without abandoning rhyme completely.
Taking the time to slow down and simply appreciate the feel of words is rewarding for both ear and tongue so bring this book back out for your kids!
Brief Review: This book is a combination of A.A. Milne's 'When We Were Very Young' and 'Now We are Six'.
These pages are packed full of timeless poems that children are sure to enjoy.
The poems range in subject and length, and their fun rhymes make them very fun to read out loud.
Content Areas:This book could be used as introduction to poetry for young children.
Funny, sometimes silly, thoughtful, sad (I always feel a little pang when I realize that I will never be that child again), wonderful.I really hope you have a child you can read these to, it will be worth it.
But if you don't, read them out loud yourself.
In the morning before breakfast, during the two phone conferences you are having instead of lunch, at night before you go to bed - it'll make you day a brighter and happier one.(and for those who were wondering - these poems have almost nothing to do with Pooh, they stand on their own)
My mom read them to me. I read them to my daughters. How delightful it was to revisit an old favorite! James James is still losing his mum, and Mary Jane has still had enough of rice pudding! And how I love seeing the dormouse in his bed of chrysanthemums (yellow and white), with his eyes shut tight dreaming of delphiniums (red) and geraniums (blue)! (When will that doctor learn to mind his own business??) I can't wait to read these poems to my grandchildren someday.
"Disobedience" and "Rice Pudding" make this book. Not all of Milne's poems strike me, but when a collection has two or more must-haves in it, the book is a must have! Lyric poetry books are for browsing, and poems or verses I discover in a book must be given air!! (Photocopy and post on the wall). Shepard's minimalist illustrations are not bossy, do not bully the visualization or interpretation of the words too much.
These verses did not charm my adult self the way those of Lewis Carroll, Edward Lear, and Shell Silverstein have done. I would recommend those others over Milne's. His Winnie the Pooh stories are fantastic. But those who loved them are liable to be disappointed with this collection of poems. I would only recommend these for a very small child, but even then you should be able to find better stuff for that age level.
Very cute books of poetry, some lovely and lyrical, some rather odd. Wonderful imagery. Some relate back to Christopher Robin obviously (illustrations of Bear, Kanga, Eeyore, etc.) others are about growing up, imagining, learning, sleeping and other things children do. Read these to my daughter as she's struggling to fall asleep and they have become favorites.
I was reading this book to my daughter, and as I read I was reminded of my Grandma. Since most of you on my friends list are related to me...it just brought back neat memories of being at her house in New York and reading and coloring with her. I guess Winnie the Pooh will always be a little bit special.
I actually own these as two separate books, each one being a collection of verses. When I first read them, as a little girl, I was disappointed because they weren't stories about Winnie-the-Pooh. Once I understood that they weren't meant to be(!), I enjoyed reading the verses for A.A. Milne's simple and charming writing... and for the beginnings of a very special Bear.
As a whole this book is perfect for poetry lover and lovers of Pooh. I really find Milne's writing style cleaver and funny. One of the best children's authors. However, if you looking for a Pooh story this only has him in a few tales and it's mostly Christopher Robin and some other random characters.
