https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/596259.Standing_for_Something
This is a very nice book about virtues.
I don't know very much about the Mormons (or rather, I don't understand very much about the Mormons!)but I thought this was wonderful.Essentially, the author ask people to practice virtues.
It works!In this book, the virtues the author promotes are love, honesty, morality, civility, learning, forgiveness, mercy, thrift, industry, gratitude, optimism, and faith.
Just imagine if every person in America were to try and improve themselves by fostering, strengthening, considering, and PRACTICING these virtues.
The virtues I have been thinking the most about lately are compassion, civility, solidarity, and humility.
Wow what a world this could be if everyone followed the counsel in this book. What I really loved is that the he discusses things in such an optimistic and grandfatherly way. This book could be read by anyone - not just members. How on earth he has the time to read newspapers, magazines and fine literature is beyond me. I guess if he has the time, we all should - what an example! Reading this book makes you want to be a more excellent person that's for sure.
The loss of this conviction, the almost total secularizing of our public attitudes, has been largely responsible for the terrible social illnesses now running rampant among us." (Page xxi)"Whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honest, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things are of good report, if there be any virtue, and if there be any praise, think on these things.
A great book for all around practical advice. Very well written from a very intelligent man. If I were going to give a book as a gift for practical advice in life, this is the one that I would give. It touches on a little bit of everything. Plus, the author was a studier of English Literature, which supports that fact that he is brilliant. :)
The kind of advice your grandpa would give you mixed with a happy young person's advice, mixed with a religious giant's advice. Very Good.
Very good advice and inspiration.2017 challenge: a book written by someone you admire.
62)“The most miserable people I know are obsessed with themselves.”(Gordon B.
56)“The best antidote I know for worry is work.
What a difference it might make, what an influence could it have in the homes of this country if parents were to work at creating an atmosphere of learning and education at home, so that children were exposed at an early age to thoughts and concepts and attitudes that would build and motivate them for good throughout their lives.“Said Solomon, 'With all they getting get understanding' (Proverbs 4:7).”(Gordon B.
Gordon B.
Hinckley was "my" prophet growing up, and reading this inspired work brought back many fond memories of hearing him speak.
He always had such an optimistic view of life and humanity, and that attitude shines brightly here as he offers wise suggestions on how to live a happier, richer life.
There's a lot I need to work on, but I've seen improvements in my own life as I've tried to put President Hinckley's words into practice.
Though he was an LDS leader, he wrote this book in such a way that anyone of any religious belief can gain a lot from it.
You absolutely get drawn into this book. Mr. Hinckley has a wonderful sense of storytelling and sense of humor that makes sense of sometimes otherwise difficult to understand concepts. This man was truly awesome. You will feel a little better about yourself and the world around you each day you read this book and gives some very practical things each person can do to improve the world we live in every day.
I've read this book twice but it was awhile back (I had more time to read back when I drove potato truck!!)and I really need to read it again. I do remember that I really enjoyed it and that it's one of those books that's good to read about once a year to remind you of some of the things we should be doing in our lives!!
One evening when I was a kid, my family had an outing to L.A.'s Chinatown. We went into a gag shop where a plaque was displayed reading: "We get too soon old and too late smart." I've seen the message several times since. Gordon B. Hinckley authored this book when he was old and smart. If you haven't already read it, do it now; and be smart before you get old.
Gordon B. Hinckley, president of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, provides an overview of 10 forgotten virtues that should be rediscovered by mankind. This is not a Mormon book so much as it is a "moral" book--the principles taught here are non-denominational and could easily be espoused by anyone. An inspiring reminder of what's important.
Such great advice and certainly prophetic. I would recommend this book to anyone wondering or worried about the state of the world. President Hinckley (what I call him) has some excellent and exact advice for curing the ails of families communities and the world. Timely and timeless messages from a truly extraordinary man.
umm, read the book title and add "and nation" to the end.1 - LOVE: One of the greatest challenges we face in our hurried, self-centered lives it to follow this counsel of the Master, to take the time and make the effort to care for others, to develop and exercise the one quality that would enable us to change the lives of others - what the scriptures call charity...
Indeed, the strength and safety of of any organization - including the family - lie in the integrity of its members.3 - MORALITY: Both experience and divine wisdom dictate that moral virtue and cleanliness pave the way that leads to strength of character, peace of mind and heart, and happiness in life.
This book is full of simple, yet profound truths that inspired to me to try a little harder to be a little better. I read a chapter each morning as a daily devotional and his words resonated with me throughout the day. This is a great read - no matter what your religious affiliation may be!
Absolutely one of the most brilliant works from him. I love this book.
Read this book. No matter who you or or what you believe. It is tender and brilliant and down-to-earth wise.
Hinckley is!Then he talked about marriage and how important it is to not give up on marriage, but instead to communicate, be kind, look for the good in each other, pray, and resolve issues when they arise.
He lists 10 specific things that will help save our homes, and thus our nation, pertaining to raising children:1.
Discipline and train children with love.7.
Teach values to children.
Teach children to work.9.
Reminded me of some things I needed to remember and work to do better at...
I reread this for a book group coming up, looking for the three most impressive stories or anecdotes.
Hinckley is very comfortable telling stories and giving anecdotes.
The last 2 chapters talk about how marriage (chapter 11) and family (chapter 12) guard and cultivate, in practical terms, the previously described virtues.
Hinckley prescribes healthy approaches to marriage and family living.
The last chapter is a general call for people the world over to be leaders in their communities, by living as best they can, even if doing so is hard, even lonely.
My favorite story was his boyhood experience being overheard by his mother saying something disparaging to an African American family walking down the street.
O how I love and miss President Hinckley.
My favorite chapter was the one on leadership.
I loved how he said we must realize that the price of leadership is loneliness.
Favorite quote-“Love is the very essence of life.
It is the pot of gold at the end of the rainbow.
Yet it is not found only at the end of the rainbow.
Love is at the beginning also, and from it springs the beauty that arched across the sky on a stormy day.
Love, like faith, is a gift of God. It is also the most enduring and most powerful virtue.” ― Gordon B.
Hinckley
I am so disappointed to have read this boo.
It is a ridiculous, self-serving book that uses self justification for each of the author's virtues.
The virtues he touts are not represented within the examples in the books.
You cannot preach about love, mercy, debts, and civility and then cite your role models as U.S. presidents, even specifically mentioning Thomas Jefferson, without explaining how that could be since they live lives facilitating debts, lacking civility for other cultures and races, adultery, promiscuity, and seek to punish the weak and oppressed in society.
Another entitled, demeaning, and narrowed-minded old white man telling everyone what he thinks is true based on his experiences with other people within his same community and reading other old white men with similar opinions.
I love President Hinckley's clear, direct, inspired way of speaking.
You can almost see/hear him behind the pulpit saying most of the things in this book.
(Which he has in various settings.)I felt the first half of the book was very uplifting.
I felt inspired and uplifted.
My only thing was that the book did seem to get a bit redundant near the end (I felt like he was simply re-telling the same principle five or six different ways, and I confess that I got a little bored near the end.)Overall, a very inspiring read from a very inspiring individual.
This was an enjoyable read.
I miss President Gordon B.
Hinckley.
Few people have influenced my life the way he has.
It wasn't possible for me to read this book without hearing his voice in my mind.
His mannerisms, expressions, and inflections all seemed to be present.
But more than the familiarity of his message, I love President Hinckley’s outlook on life.
He has an optimism that is realistic.
He exemplifies a perfect brightness of hope and how to get there.
While life is full of difficult challenges, he shares some solid principles that have made my own experiences very rewarding.
Very nice; very sweet; and oh so dear to me; Not only do I love this old-fashioned book on virtues (we all need a good old-fashioned reminder on how things used to be, and how we can keep some of that in our life today); but you can't even imagine the feeling of reading this book for comfort after losing my Dad, and then unpacking one of his boxes and dusting it off. Just knowing we each had it on our bookshelf is sustaining; remarkable; soothing; eternal. I really enjoy this book; love, Shera
I really appreciated how this book pointed out the steps of a smart relationship not only with yourself, but with God. Pres. Hinckley really resounded on the characteristics of a sound moral person and how to spread those morals to others through example, family, and other means. By reading this book, one can really find something to stand for - stand up for, stand up to, and stand up period. It helps you find what you're willing to stand up for, also. Great book!
Goodbye Dr. Wayne Dyer, Deepak Chopra, Dr. Phil, Zig Ziglar, Stephen Covey, etc.... All we need is this book by Gordon B. Hinckley to become a good people, happy, and successful. Refining our values is the path to a better world. Parallels his book Way To Be! (written for YA). OK, not really goodbye to those others, they all have great insight and wisdom too, but it's all combined in Hinckley's book.
An excellent look at what we can do to have happy lives, healthy homes and intact families. If the world took this book as seriously as they do Al Gore's, the world wouldn't need saving. It already would be. =)
This was a great book that is a reminder to me of the many reasons why families and values are so important in my life. "No nation can rise above the strength of its homes or the virtue of its people."
A simple book about lost virtues that form the essence of who we are, as men and women. A great read if you want to reinstate the faith in the worldly ideals and virtues that make us all better human beings :)
This is one of those books that I have to read once a year. It teaches me what I should be. "All of us need to learn that life is a mission and not simply a career.
