https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12448.Look_Homeward_Angel
Reading about the madness and banalities of a small-town Southern family before and after World War I was sort of the last thing I really wanted to deal with as my personal challenges grew.
I'm proud that I've finished a book that probably has been more abandoned than finished by a majority of readers who've tackled it.(KevinR@Ky 2009)-------2016 Addendum:I almost wish I had put more effort into this review, which I consider to be one of my worst, because it has been one of my most popular ones on Goodreads, read by quite a few people.
(The original family name was Gaunt, changed to Gant when the forefather first arrived in America in the early 1800s, by the way.) Wolfe's angel: https://images.search.yahoo.com/yhs/s...Some of my favorite quotes:Ben Gant: "He bore encysted in him the evidence of their tragic fault: he walked alone in the darkness, death and the dark angels hovered, and no one saw him."Eugene Gant, at nearly twelve: "The prison walls of self had closed entirely round him; he was walled completely by the esemplastic power of his imagination--he had learned by now to project mechanically, before the world, an acceptable counterfeit of himself which would protect him from intrusion.""Naked came I from my mother's womb.
Rating: 2.5* of fiveThe Publisher Says: A legendary author on par with William Faulkner and Flannery O'Connor, Thomas Wolfe published Look Homeward, Angel, his first novel, about a young man's burning desire to leave his small town and tumultuous family in search of a better life, in 1929.
Wolfe said that Look Homeward, Angel is "a book made out of my life," and his largely autobiographical story about the quest for a greater intellectual life has resonated with and influenced generations of readers, including some of today's most important novelists.
I've tried to read it in the spring, the summer, the fall, the winter -- on planes, on the bus, on the El, in Chicago, in Baltimore, in North Carolina.
And every single time, I stall out about 60% of the way through.Stargate: Atlantis fans think that John Sheppard's still trying to read War and Peace after three years in the Pegasus Galaxy; I canonically can't finish Look Homeward, Angel.I know it shouldn't bother me -- I'm not really a big believer in there being books you should read, like classics; you should read what you want -- but it does.
sometimes books have to be read at a certain time in your life.
this one was the perfect end to college.
i finished this two days after graduation.
after all of my friends departed for points unknown or home.
i was laying in the grass at fordham in the bronx with the sun shining and with the words my mother spoke to me when she dropped me off four years earlier.
she said, you won't be back.
and i told her i would.
but reading this.
finishing it in the grass in the bronx.
Look Homeward, Angel, A Story of Buried Life: Or, Why I Can't Go Home Again Look Homeward, Angel, First Edition, Charles Scribner's Sons, NY, NY, 1929The manuscript Thomas Wolfe submitted to master editor Maxwell Perkins was not titled Look Homeward, Angel, A Story of Buried Life. Rather, Wolfe had chosen O Lost: A Story of the Buried Life. Thomas Wolfe, a buried life?I call Perkins the master editor for he was already responsible for neatening up the works of Ernest Hemingway and F. Scott Fitzg
Look Homeward, Angel, First Edition, Charles Scribner's Sons, NY, NY, 1929The manuscript Thomas Wolfe submitted to master editor Maxwell Perkins was not titled Look Homeward, Angel, A Story of Buried Life.
Thomas Wolfe, a buried life?I call Perkins the master editor for he was already responsible for neatening up the works of Ernest Hemingway and F.
In 1934 Wolfe left Scribners and signed with Harper Brothers.The original manuscript of "O Lost A Story of the Buried Life," was published on October 3, 2000, by the University of South Carolina Press for the centenary of Thomas Wolfe's birth.
Look homeward Angel now, and melt with ruth:And, O ye Dolphins, waft the hapless youth. John Milton, LycidasOne of the greatest novels that he had long ago read.1937 portrait by Carl Van VechtenThomas C. Wolfe (1900 – 1938) published this, his first novel, in 1929. He had begun working on it three years before, and intended on calling it The Building of a Wall, then O Lost. The final title includes the subtitle A Story of the Buried Life.It's the story of Eugene Gant, his growing up, his family
The final title includes the subtitle A Story of the Buried Life.It's the story of Eugene Gant, his growing up, his family - especially his mother and his brother - and the fictional mountain town of Altamont, in the fictional state of Catawba.
And thus a mind like young Eugene Gant, a boy growing in that mountain-ringed-in town of Altamont, yearning for life and the world beyond that which he's been given to know.And how … how did this overwrought prose/poetry capture me in my early twenties?
I, after all, have turned out not to be like Gene Gant/Thomas Wolfe became - a writer, a young man ceaselessly on the move to an ever wider view of life and the world?
I saw and loved the movie “Genius” (about Max Perkins and Thomas Wolfe) and realized I’d skipped this one as a kid. I definitely shouldn’t have.
His poetry—although a laborious read and sometimes almost adolescent in its verbosity—conveys the essence of what it is to be born “a stranger in a strange land,” to feel stuck between spirit and life in a body, to have memories that defy sentence-making, and rather than drown in all his words, at least for the first half of the book, I mostly inhaled them, trusting my brain-transcending comprehension.
Despite his excessiveness, Wolfe expresses the nuances of life and, with a sage’s X-ray vision, the many layers of Eugene Gant and all the people who surround him.________*I read the 1929 edition which was trimmed by 60,000 words at the bidding and hands of the immaculate editor Maxwell Perkins (see a wonderful movie about Perkins and Wolfe called 
2,5 δεν ξέρω γιατι , αλλα το βαρέθηκα . Αρχίζω να πιστευω πως εχω θεμα με την αμερικανική λογοτεχνία . Ή απλως ηταν bad timing ... Ποιος ξέρει ;
When Thomas Wolfe is at his best, his writing is inspired, lyrical and athletic.
When a writer is fixed on his or her autobiography, and in Wolfe's case this involves his childhood, early youth and college education, the writing seems more non-fiction than fiction.
This story is essentially Wolfe's autobiography like a novel from Proust.
But Wolfe's theme is home, after all, and if you enjoy coming-of-age stories, then you can savor this one.
This novel is an American classic of the South and well worth the reading for Wolfe's pure lyricism alone.
This book has definitely not aged well; he has little sympathy for people who are so far outside the right people as to not be of English stock - I would guess he thought being a Yankee well nigh unforgivable.That said, there's something haunting about Wolfe's prose, which often reads almost like prose poem: "Which of us has not remained forever prison-pent?
Which of us is not forever a stranger and alone?
O waste of loss, in the hot mazes, among bright stars on this most weary unbright cinder, lost!
Remembering speechlessly we seek the great forgotten language, the lost lane-end into heaven, a stone, a leaf, an unfound door.
(I glance about trying to mask a look of horror with a patient smile.)Part one of the three part story ends about one-quarter through the book with Eugene and his mother traveling back to the North Carolina mountains from a trip into the deep South that had a lasting impression on our twelve year old centerpiece whose life experience is well beyond his young years.
At its most successful moments, this was a three star book for me; this occurred mostly after the time when Eugene left home for college.
But I believe Thomas Wolfe's first novel here is an exceptional work and one of the best coming-of-age stories for anyone that enjoys the Bildungsroman novels and is fairly literary.I am not certain that someone who is not an English major or a lover of long and in-depth literature would enjoy this.
Granted, there are about a dozen paragraphs in the novel that contain refrains of "O Lost!" and the Preface is basically a prose poem, but once you get past all the initial stuff, it is a very lively and, at times, dialogue-driven book.
A lot of people also seem to say this book doesn't age well over time and re-reading it later in life doesn't work as well.

Every time I pass it, I think of the sunny afternoon in 1984 that I sat there and read Thomas Wolfe’s autobiographical “Look Homeward Angel.” I didn’t finish the book there, it’s far too hefty, but it’s the place that I mentally connect to the story of Eugene Gant, i.e. Wolfe himself.
After finishing the book, I drove to the Thomas Wolfe Memorial Home in downtown Asheville, just to see the boarding house his mother operated that is so prominently featured in the novel.
In her dark womb we did not know our mother's face; from the prison of her flesh we come into the unspeakable and incommunicable prison of this earth.
"I thought," groaned my dad as he handed it over, "I would never finish this stupid book.""Is it worth reading?""Yep." In short, the book had become - to echo a brilliant review on goodreads that made me keep going like a marathoner on the 23rd mile - the goddamn bane of my existence.
As I finally set it down for good I actually found myself sighing poignantly, then looking around pretty embarrassed.Plot?
Thomas Wolfe doesn't need a plot.
I like the thought of him exiting stage left, looking back longingly at mistakes he would never have been able to correct.
This is basically the slightly fictionalized story of his childhood and young adult years growing up in the mountains of North Carolina in the early 1900's.I read the very first sentence of this book and my heart sank.
Taken a paragraph or so at a time, I could appreciate the beauty of his language.
But the very beauty that I admired made the actual story drag by.
And I'm very story-oriented.
It wound up detracting a lot from my enjoyment of the book.But if you think you can overlook that, and you love beautiful language, you might enjoy this one.

It's different from a lot of other books/authors I've read.Stream-of-consciousness.
style.This book was very "dramatic." The dialogue, the actions of the characters bordered on melodrama.
A lot of shrieking and clutching at one's throat.
BOOM-- Wolfe would throw in this stunning line or thought or paragraph which would completely undo me.
And I'd go back and read it again-- and again.So, bottom line: There are gems in here worth wading through the 500+ pages.
If you down a shot every time Eliza purses her lips, you'll be wasted before page 30 ...
and probably dead from severe alcohol poisoning upon completion.

“The vast wheel of life, of which he was the hub, spun round”.Generally speaking Look Homeward, Angel is about avarice and its consequences.
Greed ruined the family and even if the protagonist managed to escape the seeds of destruction were already sown inside him.Exposed to tuberculosis from early childhood the children contracted this disease and majority of them, including Thomas Wolfe, died of different forms of tuberculosis – so much for a mother’s heart.
“Each moment is the fruit of forty thousand years.
The minute-winning days, like flies, buzz home to death, and every moment is a window on all time.” Any one of us is a part of humanity and a sum of the humankind's past history.
An American masterpiece that will stay with me for a long time.
Beautifully written and an authentic portrait of the culture of the Blue Ridge Mountains.
I would have loved to read this in a class or with a book club in order to dissect it more thoroughly, because I found myself not having the patience to reread too much, so I just swallowed long, winding passages whole and kept going.
I kept thinking I would have preferred to read the exact same material told by an 80-year-old Thomas Wolfe/Eugene Gant.
I think he may have had a different, perhaps more understanding, take on it all.
Wolfe, dijete američkog Juga, u svojim djelima polazi od postavke da je svaka ozbiljna književnost autobiografska i vodeći se tom logikom ispisuje početak svojeg životnog djela, ovu obitljsku kroniku, istovremeno i roman o odrastanju dječaka Eugenea Ganta (koji je ustvari Wolfe sam) .
Na kraju...što ustvari reći...Thomas Wolfe bio je čovjek koji je rano napustio ovaj svijet.
Thomas Wolfe bio je pisac ogromnog plamena, vatre, pisac koji je izgarao i živio da piše, i da nam približi Zlatni Beskraj Vječnosti koja šumi u nama i oko nas...upravo ta želja i nesputana bujica kreativnosti koju nikad nije uspio ukrotiti su prokletstvo zbog kojeg nikada nije preskočio sve zamjerke svojih suvremenika i zaista se svrstao na panteon američke književnosti.
In places, it was repetitive and the stream-of-consciousness descriptions, which probably cannot be surpassed in both clarity and beauty also became tiresome.
In Wolfe’s distinct voice, his stream-of-consciousness descriptions evoke every sense.
They looked at each other a moment with that clear wonder by which children accept miracles, and they never spoke of it again.”I got into a groove with his writing style when he jolted me a second time.
Look Homeward Angel was Wolfe’s first novel and the writing was brave since at the time, there was nothing like it.
Wolfe grew up in Asheville, North Carolina, a city nestled in a basin of mountains.
Asheville is represented in this novel by Altamont.Altamont is neither part of the South nor of the North.
Its cool elevation sets it apart from the South, and its Confederate heritage separates it from Yankee territory.Eugene's family includes his father, W.O. Gant, a stonecutter, subject to drunken rages and faux-Shakespearean monologues listing his life's complaints.
Especially bright outsiders that don't fit into society's mainstream.I'm going to Asheville this summer and am going to visit the boarding house that was the basis for Eliza Gant's "Dixieland" in the novel.
I can always remember as an adolescent thinking that this book, judging from its title, must certainly be something maudlin and childish, a kind of reminiscence that resides in the happy minds of those who dream without nightmares.
How then did Wolfe make poignancy important to me and to everyone else, I should think?In one sense the characters are stark, almost black and white images of people striving in their own way to become people, to fulfill dreams and to submit completely to wanderlust.
And I realize that a number of the passages are experimental and ground-breaking.That said, my god, this is the one of the most over-written, purple, maudlin, and pretentious things I've read in some time.There's essentially no plot.
Eccentricity is not automatically a mark of genius--a tendency to bray in people's faces just makes you an ass.And if I had to read the phrases "o lost!" or "a stone, a leaf, a door" one more time, I think I would have hurled the book at the wall.The author mistakes wordiness for wisdom and misanthropy for profundity.
Wolfe astounds me with his writing on every page.
Maybe Wolfe was trying to convey the self-absorbed anxt of adolescence, maybe the narrative ends before the author’s figure has begun to mature, maybe the author had not emotionally grown into adulthood by the time he wrote this book, but Eugene, the stand-in for the author, struck me as a melodramatic misunderstood self-proclaimed genius.
I can’t believe that the original manuscript was three times as long,”shutter”.
I give Wolfe credit for drawing the collective attention to ordinary, dysfunctional families.
Maybe that is realistic for alcoholic families, but it makes for less than satisfying reading.
