https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2589649-khirbet-khizeh
LA PULIZIA ETNICA DELLA PALESTINALa nascita dello Stato d’Israele è, secondo me, uno dei fatti storici più affascinanti del XX secolo.Sicuramente uno di quelli dalle maggiori conseguenze.Carico di aspettative, di significato, anche di simbolismo, è nato sulla ripetizione dell’orrore di quello che lo aveva preceduto.
Perseguitati ovunque e sempre, gli ebrei hanno ripetuto esattamente quello che hanno imparato (a temere) nei secoli: la pulizia etnica.Che è un modo meno aspro di definire il genocidio.Nel 1948, appena gli inglesi tolsero le tende e gli ormeggi, le milizie ebree si scatenarono ai danni degli arabi (palestinesi) residenti: furono distrutti 531 villaggi ed esiliati circa 800.000 palestinesi (sul numero di morti mi mancano cifre).Pulizia etnica della Palestina.Yizhar Smilansky, che è il nome completo di S.Yizhar, racconta proprio questo: una pattuglia di soldati israeliani che ‘ripulisce’ un villaggio arabo, radendolo al suolo, facendo saltare in aria le costruzioni di pietra e bruciando le altre di paglia e legno.
Me es difícil hablar de este libro, porque es muy corto, pero sobre todo porque es atmosférico y pretende afectar emocionalmente al lector y hacerle pensar, y eso me resulta complicado de expresar con palabras.
Extrañamente (o no) a quienes va dirigida esta novela de 1949 es a los propios compatriotas del escritor, a los ciudadanos de la recién creada Israel.
Quiero decir, no es una persona que discuta el derecho de Israel a existir, no es un enemigo externo, no es alguien que tuviera dudas de cómo comenzó la guerra del 48.
Pero sí de cómo acabó.
Lo que se desprende de la historia es la deshumanización del enemigo en el seno de una guerra que enfrenta a israelíes y palestinos desde la partición de Palestina por parte de la ONU y la independencia del país de Gran Bretaña, así como un sentimiento de odio visceral por parte de los personajes hacia "el del otro lado" innato, repentino y automático.Podemos advertir cómo los soldados del ejército de Israel muestran una completa falta de empatía hacia los futuros exiliados, siendo la excepción aquéllos en los que despierta un mínimo remordimiento o cuestionamiento acerca del porqué de su actuación y de la legitimidad o no de la misma.
All-too-typical U.S. meddling mixed with various toxic nationalisms is costing lives once again, and I have just stumbled onto this window back into how we got here, an Israeli account of the original ejection of the Palestinians by an embattled new state, 1948-1949, published the same year.
60 years later, upon the re-publishing of this short but essential work, the echoes continued, resonating in the excellent afterword concerned with the continued pressure on Palestinians in the West Bank by Israeli settlers.
Yizhar's suggests that the means were always unconscionable, especially for a people so familiar with the tragedy of exile, and that the turmoil of the present runs right back to the start and beyond.
About two weeks ago, there was a review of this republished novella on the back page of the NYTimes book review that I couldn't resist.
I immediately got the novella and wasn't disappointed.
It was published in May 1949 and describes the feelings and moral dilemma of the soldier narrator who is part of an Israeli detail sent to destroy a Palestinian village.
As he watches the villagers driven into exile, he becomes more and more outraged, but ultimately remains an observer, not an activist.
Almost 60 years later, the Afterword, written by a contemporary activist who works with a Palestinian-Israeli peace group, offers hope.
Η πολύ καλογραμμένη και ενδιαφέρουσα αυτή νουβέλα, γράφτηκε όταν ακόμα δεν είχαν σταματήσει οι εχθροπραξίες ανάμεσα στους Ισραηλινούς και του Άραβες, κατά τον πρώτο Αραβοϊσραηλινό πόλεμο που διήρκεσε πάνω από εννιά μήνες, από τον Μάιο του 1948 έως Μάρτιο του 1949.
Η ιστορία της νουβέλας διαδραματίζεται το 1948, στο χωριό Χιρμπέτ Χιζέ, με τον ανώνυμο αφηγητή -έναν νεαρό Ισραηλινό στρατιώτη-, να συμμετέχει στην επιχείρηση εκκένωσης του εν λόγω χωριού, με τους Άραβες κατοίκους να διώχνονται κακήν κακώς από τις εστίες τους.
Όχι άδικα: Η γραφή είναι πραγματικά πολύ καλή και οξυδερκής, με ρεαλιστικές και συχνά-πυκνά λυρικές περιγραφές των τοπίων και των γεγονότων, ενώ φυσικά ο συγγραφέας περνάει κάθε είδους μηνύματα για τον (οποιοδήποτε) πόλεμο.
This is a beautifully written book that poetically delivers the tragedy of dispossession and exile, told by one of whom are forced to carry out this crime.
This perhaps also makes the tragedy even more vivid when you see how the victims are not permitted to fully express themselves as they are clearly trying to comprehend the disastrous and sudden derailment of their daily lives.
I end the book with great respect for Yizhar as a writer, and only wish I could read it in the original Hebrew (the afterward gives some hints at what I missed in the translated text), but also for him as a man with the courage not to accept the myth of one's purity.
S. Yizhar (real name Yizhar Smilansky) published this short book in 1949.
The book is short, but packs an incredible punch.
It's remarkable, moreover, that Yizhar manages to sound his cry of injustice without lapsing into polemic.
The edition of the book that I read closes with a strong afterword by David Shulman, who contextualises the original work and connects it to the present moment.Highly recommended.UPDATE: I had opportunity to think about this book more overnight, and also learnt about the concept of "shooting and weeping", of which Yizhar is supposedly a proto-example.
Indeed, the protagonist has an internal struggle and regrets about the operations which he is part of, but he participates in them nonetheless.
Painstaking and painful story describing the forced removal of Palestinians from their land in Israel's War of Independence.
Reminiscent of Tim O'Brien in its humanization of the "enemy." Protagonist is Israeli soldier who consistently questions and only briefly (and unsuccessfully) tries to rationalize official policy.
Author unflinchingly describes brutality of dispossession and like all good war stories makes clear the dehumanization that occurs to oppressor and oppressed alike.
Brave account that pretty much avoids the how and why (those rationalizations) we arrive to that point and instead focuses on the disastrous and tragic impact (and hints presciently at the future consequences) on those caught in the middle of cataclysmic events.
A must read. Khirbet Khizeh is a short novel written by a former Israeli intelligence officer, personalizing the expulsion of the residents of a Palestinian village in 1948. Timely, in part for its ability to dramatize the rationalizations individuals contrive in order to allow them to perform acts of brutality and violence.Ibis Editions continues to set a high standard for publishing with moral urgency.
6/10
The law effectively criminalises the right of the Palestinian people to remember.Khirbet Khizehby S Yizhar, translated by Nicholas de Lange and Yaacob Dweck Buy it from the Guardian bookshopSearch the Guardian bookshop Renowned for many years as the only tale in Israeli literature to tell the story of the 1948 expulsion, Khirbet Khizeh also owes its power and status to the way that it recounts the resistance to memory which this dark episode of Israeli history will provoke in the nation's consciousness: "True, it all happened a long time ago," the story opens, "but it has haunted me ever since.
Eindelijk weer eens 5 sterren...In één naar adem happende ruk uitgelezen. Gruwelijke daden adembenemend mooi beschrijven, het is weinigen gegeven. Van een onwerkelijke schoonheid, die lang zal nazinderen, en tot herlezen dwingt...
Published (in Hebrew) in 1949, just months after the events it describes, this was the first novel to (as the author himself put it) "[lay] bare the original sin of the State of Israel": the forcible, violent expulsion, killing, and razing of the homes of Palestinian villagers whose ancestral lands happened to be on the Israeli side of the 1948 partition line — what Palestinians remember as the Nakba or "Catastrophe." Yizhar (Yizhar Smilansky, 1916-2006) was a Sabra, i.e., a Jew born in Eretz Yisrael (in Rehovot), one who understood his compatriots' psychology from the inside, which makes his portrait of a young Israeli soldier on a mission of what we would now call "ethnic cleansing" sharply, shudderingly convincing.
1948, een groep jonge Israëlische soldaten vertrekt op missie.
Hoewel het boek ondertussen uitgegroeid is tot één van de hoogtepunten van de Hebreeuwse literatuur zorgt de inhoud ervan nog steeds - niet verrassend - voor hevige discussies binnen Israël.
In een zeer mooie, poëtsiche taal beschrijft Yizar zijn persoonlijke ervaring en twijfels bij deze menselijke tragedie: “Tegelijk huiverde ik om een of andere reden, en terwijl mijn hand nog dronken van enthousiamse wees naar de vluchters die ik had ontdekt, had ik het gevoel dat iemand in me iets anders schreeuwde, als een gewonde vogel…”Zestig jaar oud en pijnlijk actueel.
Horrific
A novella written by one of those involved in the '48 ethnic cleansing of Palestine. Poignant reading, particularly in the light of what has subsequently happened to the moral conscience of Israel.
The portrait of Israeli soldiers before and during an expulsion of Palestinians might have fallen to political idealism and moralistic preaching, but the way in which this tale is written presents a fleshier, more pained experience.
Yizhar is able to make that which is dust into flesh, with landscapes that reflect the pain and destruction inflicted upon its inhabitants.
People became prisoners, and, in some people's eyes, lost their humanity.I do not claim to know the depth of poetry that exists in the original, and I admit ignorance to the specificity of religious allusion, but the broader historical and religious undertones exist quite powerfully in this English language translations poesis.
More than any other discourse on the Israeli-Palestinian conflicts has.
Khirbet Khizeh is the All Quiet on the Western Front of the Israeli/Palestinian conflict.
It could also be a chapter in The Things They Carried by Tim O’Brien had that book taken place in the Levant in that it does not glorify war and paints a dim picture of the consequences of conflict.
I won’t delve in to the muddy waters of the issues of territory and settlements in this review, but I will say that I believe that the book and its afterward portray the tragedy of conflict, war, and displacement in an effective way that stuck with me.
Written in May 1949, one year after the Nakba, this account by an Israeli soldier is a truly remarkable account.
It details some of the horrors that took place, but I find it more remarkable for the reflections of S.
Perhaps one of the most profound reflections comes late in the book, when he says:“Something struck me like lightning.
All at once everything seemed to mean something different, more precisely: exile.
This was exile.
This was what exile was like.
This was what exile looked like.”There is something incredibly profound in his use of the word exile and his other reflections, that brings home the Nakba from another perspective.
The principal strengths of this novella lie outside the book itself, relating more to the context and percipience.
(It is good for what it is, as a work of literature: a bit dense, very allusive, but readable nonetheless)One problem I have: because the author thrusts the reader into the situation, it presumes - or demands - a specific moral response.
As it happens, I think this moral response is the correct one.
But that’s an opinion, not a fact; Khirbet’s framing device spares the reader a bit of circumstance-related leg work which one really ought to do before coming to a firm conclusion.
I appreciate that this novel created a lot of fuzz when it came out in 1949, but in 2017 it didn’t have a lot of effect on me. It could be the complicated poetic language, or the page long sentences that threw me, the result is that it just didn’t move me. Maybe it’s too short; I didn’t get to know anybody enough to really care about them. War is bad, and soldiers grow callused. I already knew that.
It's not KK, it's me: that this book is wise I can agree with absolutely. That it is "still-shockingly wise," as the blurb suggests, is a little bit much. Turns out the Israeli occupation wasn't and isn't all that noble a thing. The prose was decent, but not so good that it took me away from the obviousness of the rest of the book. I'm glad this was written, that it's still in print, and that people are reading it. But I think I just expected too much.
"Non sono mai stato in esilio [...], non l'ho mai conosciuto... però me ne hanno parlato, mi hanno raccontato, l'ho studiato a scuola, me l'hanno ripetuto a ogni angolo, nei libri e nei giornali, ovunque: l'esilio. Hanno suonato tutte le mie corde. Il grido del nostro popolo contro il mondo: l'esilio! Era dentro di me probabilmente, l'avevo succhiato col latte di mia madre. E cosa stavamo facendo noi qui oggi?" (pp. 78, 79)
Quanta attualità in questo breve libro di 40 anni fa. Un soldato israeliano che con la propria truppa ha l'ordine di evacuare un villaggio palestinese e di farne saltare le case manifesta qualche (timido) dubbio sul senso di queste operazioni. Ma forse è l'unico a porsi domande.
The horrors of making someone else a refugee.
A short book with a message that does not stop.
Powerful. I wish I could read it in Hebrew. Some of the symbolism from the Bible was still quite meaningful in English.
powerful and key themes (exile, occupation) are still relevant today in the Israel-Palestinian debate The afterward by David Shulman helps with a deeper understanding of this novella
A haunting eyewitness report from an Israeli Intelligence Officer of the expulsion of the Arabs from Khirbet Khizeh following the 1948 War of Independence. This was an expressive way of capturing the unique paradox that is Israel - a nation created for refugees, yet necessitating the creation of refugees in order to be born. This edition was bolstered by the excellent afterword from David Shulman, who explained the way the original Hebrew version links to biblical passages and is written in a lyrical prose that is unfortunately largely lost in the English translation.
