https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/761023.Books_of_Blood
Horror...gore...twisted, nightmare imagery...let's get under the covers and read something scary...  There are some truly blood-chilling moments in this excellent collection. Barker has a very unique voice and I thought all of these stories were at least good, with several being remarkable 5+ star worthy gems. Deeply evocative with shocking depictions that will glue themselves to your memory. This is a worthy collection for fans of the genre or anyone who enjoys quality, creative writing and isn
Barker has a very unique voice and I thought all of these stories were at least good, with several being remarkable 5+ star worthy gems.
A good, solid story but worth reading more for its tie-in effect to the rest of the series (plus it is very short).
Barker really layered this tale well and I thought it was excellent.
3.0 starsPIG BLOOD BLUES: My FAVORITE story in the collection.
SEX, DEATH AND STARSHINE:Good, solid story but not one of my favorites.
Overall, 4.0 to 4.5 stars and definitely the collection to try if you are looking to experience Barker's short fiction.
And so on.First volume of Books of Blood contains 7 short stories from one of the biggest names in horror history.
To me Barker's writing is cinematic, the gore and blood sophisticated and tasteful, the simplistic ideas something greater than just a horror story.
I might be.But what lacks of Barker is something that lacks from most short story writers, and that is an ending that blows my imaginary penis like a pro.
That itself is a rarity.Barker mixes a lot of fantasy elements into his horror, and that is probably the breaker that deny the love story between him and I.
When I read it thirty years ago, it convinced me that I could actually like a good horror story.
And last week, when I read it yet again, I took my time, and I finally let this superb book teach me what first-class horror is all about.
In the last extremity, all we human beings can relate with--and through--is our body, with its pleasures and pains.
It is our body and its loss—not spooks or madness—that we fear the most.Barker keeps his six tales rooted in the privilege, pleasures, and pains of the body.
Because of this, I believe him to be the best of all the writers of horror stories I have read.
Meaning, I like the idea of Barker's work more than the execution.
That being said, I am a fan of Clive Barker the Short Story Author.
I only give it four stars instead of five because it doesn't work as a story.
Barker always goes the road less traveled, and instead of writing your average serial killer fair, he gives us a fictional origin story for New York.
Five stars."The Yattering and Jack" is one of the stories I remember the most in this collection.
Five stars."Pig Blood Blues" is a story whose title I cannot say without stammering.
Four stars."Sex, Death and Starshine" is my least favorite story in the collection.

Racconto viscerale e disturbante che migliora progressivamente fino all'agghiacciante finale.Sesso, morte e stelle: ☆☆☆Terry Calloway è il direttore di una scalcagnata compagnia teatrale in cui le doti d'attrice della bella primadonna Diane Duvall, sono inversamente proporzionali al suo talento nell'appagare sessualmente il suo mecenate ed amante.L'Elysium Theather, dove va in scena La dodicesima notte di Shakespeare rischia quindi la chiusura, ma l'enigmatico ha in mente idee diverse al riguardo.Storia grandguignolesca di ambientazione teatrale a base di sesso, humour nero e morti viventi.Carina ed originale ma non mi ha fatto impazzire.In collina, le città: ☆☆☆☆☆
Popolac e Podujevo, città gemelle della Jugoslavia, condividono un'oscura tradizione millenaria.Gli sventurati Mick e Judd, turisti inglesi in luna di miele stanno per scoprire quale e non gli piacerà.Racconto viscerale e parecchio disturbante dall'originalità dirompente, il migliore dell'antologia insieme a Macelleria Mobile di Mezzanotte e Mai dire maiale.
Το πρώτο από τα βιβλία του αίματος είναι από τις αγαπημένες μου συλλογές διηγημάτων. Για κάποιον λόγο κατά το παρελθόν το είχα ανταλλάξει και ευτυχώς που οι εκδόσεις ΟΞΥ προχώρησαν σε επανέκδοσή του και μου έδωσαν έτσι την ευκαιρία να το διαβάσω ξανά. Η άποψή μου δεν άλλαξε, μου φάνηκε και πάλι εκπληκτικό. Εξακολουθούσα να θυμάμαι με ανατριχιαστική ακρίβεια τα midnight meat train και in the hills, the cities κι αυτό μάλλον λέει τα πάντα από μόνο του.Το απόλυτο Must σε όσους συγγραφείς αρέσκονται στον τρόμο και γράφουν διηγήματα.
Ja sam jedna od onih osoba koji se užasavaju gomile toga, pri čemu imam tu "bolesnu" potrebu da što mi je nešto gnusnije to meni više "ide voda na usta" da vidim šta se dalje dešava :) Znate ono - nešto vam je odvratno i muka vam je od toga, ali vam neki đavo ne da mira i hoćete još i još i još, što strašnije i odvratnije - to bolje.
Algoritam je pre 3 godine izdao tvrdokoričeno izdanje Barkerovih Knjiga krvi 4-6 i jedno vreme sam se nadala da će i prve tri zbirke ugledati svetlost dana u njihovom izdanju, ali izgleda da od toga nema ništa.
Honestly? This short story collection is flawless.Every single story in this was without fault. All of them were haunting and really, really well written, and get a full 5 stars each from me. The weakest one was, in my opinion, "Sex, Death and Starshine", but that just means that it was slightly worse than the others, not that it was leagues beneath. My favourite was possibly "The Yattering and Jack" because it was clever as hell, but honestly, it's really hard to choose.I've already started the next volume.
Demon or man?Pig Blood Blues 3*Couldn’t take to this story, I must subconsciously have something against pigs because when the sow in this story was described as being beautiful and alluring or words of that effect, I was lost never to recover.Sex, Death and Starshine 4.5*This tale starts of as an old fashioned theatre performance, the narrator put on a splendidly posh voice that was perfect for the setting and although probably not intended, I did laugh when he cursed and swore.
The Book of BloodThe Midnight Meat TrainThe Yattering and JackPig Blood BluesSex, Death and Star ShineIn the Hills, the CitiesThis is my favorite story from this volume. I found this image on deviant art, an awesome depiction of the giant made of people.
I'm curious how I'll feel about it now that I'm no longer a tormented teen looking to hide from reality.The Book of BloodAfter recently seeing the movie adaptation of this short story, which was dreary, sexualized and not too bad even with some cliches thrown in, I was impelled to revisit this novel to see how the film matched up.
This was a very original short story, unlike anything I've read before or since, but considering what happens Barker doesn't stay focused on the gore as he easily could have but more on the reactions of the two who witness this bizarre event.Funny, I remember this book as being shocking and horrifying and terribly gory but I didn't think it was any of those things the second time around.
3.5Books of Blood, Volume 1 is an entertaining six-story anthology.
The last two didn't do much for me.The Book of BloodThe dead have highways and a team of three people is at Tollington Place 65 to witness one of those turnpikes and intersections.
Someone is butchering people in the subway and he is going to get in the middle of it and learn some of the city's history and its dark secrets along the way.The Yattering JackMy favourite story.
Very disturbing story of a former police officer who got a job at a Centre for Adolescent Offenders only to realize that something is not quite right with the place.
The first volume of Books of Blood is an excited debut that gushes with inventiveness the way the titular fluid leaves a severed artery.
As gleefully moribund as they are perverse, each of the six stories collected here are elaborately conceived phantasmagorias that offer a reckoning for its protagonists who take the banality of existence for granted.
Written with a sly sense of humor, Barker’s deranged tales delight now the same as they must have on first publication, when they gobsmacked readers like Stephen King and Ramsey Campbell.
Πιστεύω πως δεν υπάρχει άνθρωπος που να μην λατρεύει τον Clive Barker και να μην ένιωσε μια γλυκιά ανατριχίλα να διαπερνά το κορμί του όταν έμαθε ότι θα ξανακυκλοφορήσουν τα βιβλία του αίματος. Ήμουν από τους πρώτους που έτρεξαν να τα αποκτήσουν και να χαθούν στη "φρίκη" τους. Κάθε διήγημα του βιβλίου, μια μικρή ιστορία φρίκης και μυστηρίου που το μόνο κακό που έχουν είναι ότι δεν τα χορταίνεις! Θες κι άλλο! Η γλώσσα του Barker, που τη διαχειρίζεται τόσο έξυπνα, ξεχειλίζει ωμότητα σε όλο το βιβλίο. Πιο πολύ απόλαυσα τον μικρό δαίμονα ¨Φλύαρο". Περιμένω τώρα το επόμενο!
Neko vreme sam planirala početak čitanja Barkerovih dela i izbor je lako pao na prvu Knjigu krvi, u najvećoj meri zbog dobrih preporuka i delimično zbog toga što bih mogla da napravim pauzu u čitanju njegovih priča ukoliko mi "ne legnu".
Svaka od ovih priča surova je na svoj način, dok elementi neverovatnog ostaju u opsegu realnog i mogućeg.Kako sam već pomenula, prva priča, simbolično naslovljena "Knjiga krvi" nas uvodi u Barkerov svet i oslikava nam jasno njegov stil pisanja, na koji način opisuje događaje i kakav horor od njega možemo očekivati.
Η πρώτη μου απολαυστική επαφή με τον σύγχρονο τρόμο, μακριά από τους γηραιούς τζέντλμεν και τις μυστικιστικές φρικωδίες άλλων τόπων. Χαρακτήρες καθημερινοί, όπως ο νεαρός φοιτητής που θέλει να πάρει καλό βαθμό, ή το ζευγάρι που πάει εκδρομή με το αυτοκίνητο, γραφή απλή, που ωστόσο χωράει το μεγαλειώδες.
Having a shoddy memory mainly sucks, but in the case of book re-reads, it holds its gifts.I do remember some things though – like when this came out, Barker was making his way on the horror scene big time, heavily endorsed by King himself, who said: “I have seen the future of horror, and his name is Clive Barker.” This quote was even used, with an actor voiceover, for the Hellraiser’s trailer years later.
It is used, of course, on the Books of Blood as a selling point.Barker has since demonstrated extreme versatility in genre and form; you’re more than likely now of days to find his imaginative tombs lining the shelves in a fantasy section rather than a horror one.
Ένα βιβλίο συνήθως θα κάνω συνήθως πάνω από έξι μέρες να το διαβάσω -ανάλογα φυσικά και με το μέγεθός του.
Εδώ όμως βγήκα από τις συνήθειές μου καθώς δεν μπορούσα να κάνω διαφορετικά.
Και γιατί αυτό; Γιατί δε μπορούσα να ξεκολλήσω με τίποτα.
Ο Clive Barker έχει τρομερή φαντασία και είναι ένας μετρ του γραπτού λόγου.
Κάθε ιστορία είναι και ένα ταξίδι σε σκοτεινά μονοπάτια τα οποία μονάχα ο Barker μπορεί να δημιουργήσει.
Αν σε αυτό προσθέσουμε και την λατρεία που έχω στα short stories όπως και την άριστη μετάφραση που πραγματικά δεν θα μπορούσε να είναι καλύτερη, το αποτέλεσμα είναι ότι το βιβλίο μπήκε στη λίστα με τα αγαπημένα μου βιβλία ever!
يجتمع فيها الحبكة المُتقنة والأجواء المقبّضة مع الرعب الخالص -ليس إثارة وخيال علمي وكل تلك الأشياء الأليفة التي أصبحت تُنسب زورًا إلى الرعب- والأجمل من ذلك أن النصوص متوسطة الطول، فهي ليست رواية طويلة يضيع فيها عنصر الخوف والغرابة وسط أجواء الروتين والرتابة، وليست بالقصيرة التي تعجز عن إدخالك في محيط الغرابة والفزع.لم أبدأ قراءة سلسلة كتب الدم حسب الترتيب -ليس هناك من ضرورة- لذا فقد أتى هذا الكتاب في الترتيب الرابع من حيث القراءة.
لذا سأسرد انطباعاتي على عجالة وأترك الحكم لك:1- كتب الدم: قصة قصيرة يمكن اعتبارها كمدخل جيد للسلسلة حيث أنها تبرر العنوان وتحمل كل مايسر خاطر عشاق الرعب: بيت مسكون، أرواح معذبة، فريق تحري ونهاية بشعة.
Volume 1 showcases how the books of blood were created (a creepy origin story) and we have one of the characters who starts to read the stories that were left behind.
I should maybe have given it 3 stars, but heck it's Clive Barker so I rounded it up to 4 stars."The Book of Blood" (5 stars)-Apparently faking psychic phenomena is not a smart thing to do cause sometimes the dead come knocking.
The story itself reminded me a little bit of Hell House though what comes after is pure Barker.
It was a strange story, just needed a bit more oomph to it.
"Every body is a book of blood; Wherever we’re opened, we’re red." I have heard and read about Clive Barker that his writing is brutal, scary and full of gore. Moreover, my expectations rose when the introduction was written by Mr. Ramsey Campbell. And...There are five short stories in the book - The Midnight Meat Train; The Yattering and Jack; Pig Blood Blues; Sex, Death and Starshine and In the Hills, the Cities. Let's do it in an organized way by taking one story at a time in the order they
And...There are five short stories in the book - The Midnight Meat Train; The Yattering and Jack; Pig Blood Blues; Sex, Death and Starshine and In the Hills, the Cities.
(hide spoiler)]Story: 5/5Horror quotient: 100/5Climax: 4.5/5Pig Blood Blues: This one is based in a juvenile detention center and it has a weird feeling about it.
And the surprise element is superb here.Story: 5/5Horror quotient: 5/5Climax: 5/5Sex, Death and Starshine: I did not find this story as exciting as others.
Now, it is one of least favorite stories.Story: 2/5Horror quotient: 3/5Climax: 3/5In the Hills, the Cities: It is creepy, gory, bizarre!
I've tried reading Barker a couple of times and given up.
MISTER B GONE and SCARLET GOSPELS are two that spring to mind.Now I know that Barker has some hardcore fans and they're always shocked when I say I haven't liked anything I've read.When I tell them the titles I tried they are never surprised.
This is the Barker I always hoped to find when I read his work.
The guy that I know created Hellraiser and Candyman!
End result anyway is, I will definitely be trying out more Barker.
Първата от "Кървави книги" надявам се подготвя за още по-силно изразено лице на хоръра. Фаворит ми е "Среднощен влак за месо", макар че както и при него, така и при другите разкази, ми липсва логическото, обяснението на злото. Определено самите разкази са майсторски написани - напояващи със страх и ужас, но лицата им са толкова откачени, че звучат чак нереално. Това, което увлича е наистина майсторския стил на писане, предаден отлично от преводача Иван Атанасов! Книгата/поредицата не е/са за изпускане! Така че, позволете си да се потопите в кръв.
To my total surprise I am giving this collection of stories four stars. :) One of the things that I struggle with with horror is that it can be incredibly predictable. Not so with this book. Barker does a phenomenal job of making his stories unique and original. There was only one story that I felt was same ol' same ol'. The Yattering and Jack was my favorite, but I also really enjoyed In the Hills, the Cities.
This is the second time I’ve read Vol. 1 all the way through since I was thirteen. And man does it hold up. This time around my favorite stories were:Midnight Meat Train (of course)The Yattering and JackIn the Hills, the CitiesI can't wait to re-read the other volumes.
Τα βιβλία του αίματος είναι έξι τόμοι που γράφτηκαν από τον Μπάρκερ σε νεαρή ηλικία και είχε όλη την όρεξη να αποτυπώνει φρικαλεότητες, χωρίς περικοπές (αργότερα μετρίασε αντίστοιχες σκηνές).
Το κάνει υπέροχα και για αυτό ξεχωρίζει.Από τις ιστορίες λάτρεψα το "Φλύαρο και ο Τζακ" για το μαύρο χιούμορ του και την "μαύρη" αισιοδοξία, το "Σεξ Θάνατος και Αστροφεγγιά" για τη καφρίλα και το σχολιασμό της τέχνης και το "Μπλουζ αίματος για ένα γουρούνι", που απλά είναι ότι πιο "τι-στο-καλό-διάβασα-τι-παίρνει-αυτός-ο-τύπος-για-να-γράφει-τέτοια".
Δεύτερος βέβαια έρχεται ο Edward Lee, επίσης φανταστικός αλλά ο Μπάρκερ είναι χιλιόμετρα μπροστά του.Κανένας άλλος συγγραφέας δεν έχει καταφέρει να με κάνει να σκέφτομαι σκηνές από τα βιβλία του τόσο ζωντανά, ακόμα και αν περάσουν πολλά χρόνια.
Currently, I'm reading Books 1-3 contained in a single volume, but I wanted to review each book individually.So far, I am quite impressed by Clive Barker's collection of short macabre horror stories.
It's aptly named "The Book of Blood." It starts of with a really gripping opening sentence: "The dead have highways." This deals with a woman investigating just that, a highway of the dead, or a haunted house of some sort.
In any case, it’s a very suspenseful story that is captivating and exciting.The Yattering and Jack was a very entertaining story about a demon trying to torment a man named Jack due to some sort of wrongdoing that Jack’s mom did before she died.
I finally finished this and was sorry I waited because the last 2 stories I really enjoyed. Especially the one about the giant human mass which was just genius! Just picturing it in my head was so much fun! Mick and Judd were very likable characters too. My other favorites were The Yattering and Jack and Pig Blood Blues. Highly recommend even if u are not a Barker fan. I'm so glad I have part 2 and 3.
Buenos relatos, originales, escalofriantes y muy bien estructurados, lo que permite, a pesar de lo breves que son, contextualizar al lector lo suficientemente bien para entrar en cada una de las atmósferas creadas por Barker.Lo anterior no es menor si consideramos que cada relato tiene vida propia, no sólo por su temática, sino también por la forma de abordarlo.
Así nos encontramos con Terror, en que la angustia no llega de la mano de ningún ser infernal, sino sólo de la mente desquiciada del personaje principal, hasta El charlatán y Jack que se puede decir tiene ciertos toques de humor.
Mi favorito...
El blues de la sangre de cerdo con ese toque policial y de suspenso que no te deja interrumpirlo desde que lo inicias.
