https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28305.The_Human_Comedy
Ithaca, California is based on the real town of Fresno, California, Saroyan's hometown.عنوانها: کمدی انسانی؛ پیک مرگ و زندگی؛ نویسنده: ویلیام سارویان (سارایان)؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز بیست و چهارم ماه سپتامبر سال 1973 میلادیعنوان: کمدی انسانی، یا، پیک مرگ و زندگی؛ نویسنده: ویلیام سارویان (سارایان)؛ مترجم: سیمین دانشور؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، ابن سینا، کتابخانه دانش، انتشارات فرانکلین؛ 1333، در 320 ص، مصور، چاپ دیگر: تهران، خوارزمی، 1357؛ در 262 ص؛ چاپ دیگر: تهران، خوارزمی، 1380؛ در 291 ص، شابک: 9644810484؛ چاپ دیگر: تهران، علمی فرهنگی، در 247 ص، شابک: 9786004363754؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان امریکایی - سده 20 مداستانِ زندگی یک خانواده ی فقیر امریکائی ست، که با شرکت کردن تنها نان آور خانواده در جنگ، وضع زندگی آنها بدتر میشود.
The Macauley family, just like any other families, is taking the brunt of war: the father is dead, the eldest son Marcus is in the war front, the mother is working in a factory, the daughter has left the school and is looking for work, the 14-y/o Homer has taken the job as a telegraph messenger to help support the family including his younger brother, the 4-y/o Ulysses.This children's book is semi-autobiographical.
Coming from an a non-American (I am an Asian), I am just curious.Even if the book is composed of short stories, the plot is still complete and tight.
i have just reread this beautiful little masterpiece and fell in love with saroyan and this book all over again. i am now going to pick up his short stories and marvel at those. i say, do this now. you can read it in a weekend. short, sweet, tidy, and beautiful, it is a lovely novel which touches the heart and soul without being sappy, overly sentimental or unrealistic. it takes place in the fictional 'ithaca' which, if you note by the mention of Roeding Park or Gottschalks, is actually Fresno, California.
Un libro bello e inocente, que nos recuerda las ilustraciones de Norman Rockwell. Un libro que hay que leer con el espíritu del Frank Capra de Qué bello es vivir. Un libro del que también hay película.El libro se compone de capítulos que podrían ser preciosos cuentos en sí mismos. Un libro trágico sobre personajes insatisfechos, pero tratado con una delicada sencillez... «Éste es mi hijo. Tiene tres años. No está enfermo. Quierre muchas codsas. Yo no sé qué quierre. Nadie sabe lo que quierre. Si
Un libro que hay que leer con el espíritu del Frank Capra de Qué bello es vivir.
Mirra a Dios y didse: dame esto, dame aquello, pero nunca está satisfecho.
Aunque yo lo haga, tú eres mi hijo y por tanto eres mejor que yo y no tienes que hacerlo.
Yo soy infeliz, pero tú tienes que ser feliz.»
No es, por tanto, un libro sobre la verdad, sobre toda la verdad, del ser humano, pero hay veces que no es la verdad lo que necesitamos oír, ¿no están de acuerdo?
Se trata de un libro vivo, triste, feliz y maravilloso.La historia transcurre en Ithaca, un pequeño pueblo californiano, y dos de los protagonistas se llaman Homer y Ulysses, como no podía ser menos.
Se puede decir que hay un protagonista principal, Homer, aunque la novela es más bien coral, en donde vamos conociendo a algunos de los habitantes de este pueblo.
Otro personaje entrañable es Ulysses, su hermano pequeño, un niño que siente curiosidad por todo y que nos ofrece algunos momentos memorables.
I like this book so much because it wonderfully portrays how life is a battle for young and old and the in-between, for all of us.
The characters in the book are each fighting different battles, from the youngest of only four caught in a trap, losing a father, missing a brother and confused by the general state of the world around him, to an elderly telegrapher who cannot bear the consequences of war in his hometown (Ithaca, San Joaquin Valley, California) or for that matter the general state of the world, war 1942.
In this book you see everyone’s battle, and I liked that very much.
I saw kindness, and I saw meanness.The audiobook narration is by Meg Ryan.
Sognando in California.Delizioso, fresco, scanzonato, innocente.Un'Odissea per vivere la quale non è necessario allontanarsi da Ithaca, perché tutto il mondo è casa e a casa c'è tutto un mondo da scoprire: basta avere occhi - e cuore- per mettersi in viaggio e aprire la mente alle piccole grandi scoperte quotidiane, proprio così come fa il piccolo e curioso Ulysses, che viaggia in mondo fatto di giganti buoni, di ciclopi che proteggono un albicocco, e di una materna Penelope tra le cui braccia è sempre bello sapere di poter tornare.Proprio così come fa il saggio Homer, che a soli quattordici anni ha già iniziato a capire che al mondo non si smette di piangere una volta diventati adulti, ma che a cambiare sono solo i perché.E lui pedala, pedala, pedala, perché c'è tutto un mondo da scoprire.

I had been meaning to read The Human Comedy for years and finally got around to it - glad I did.
If this book were a painting it would be a Normal Rockwell.
Hi characters are more than ordinary people; they are ordinary saints.If I had any criticism of the story, it was for Saroyan's inability to fully express how painful death is for the ones left behind.
I would like to read a biography about Saroyan.
He turned down the Pulitzer Prize for The Time of Your Life and later became a compulsive gambler, according to the book jacket.
Secondo me non è una visione semplicemente buonistica del mondo quella di Saroyan, è un consiglio a riflettere sul fatto che i semplici valori della vita sono una ricchezza da custodire.
Yalın bir dille (saroyanesque) yazılmış duygu dolu, savaş karşıtı ''insan''ca bir roman İnsanlık Komedisi.Kitabın en keyifli yerleri dört yaşındaki tatlılar tatlısı Ulysses'in başından geçenler ve diyaloglarıydı. Sırf Ulysses için bile tekrar tekrar okunabilir bu kitap:"Homer, Santa Clara Caddesi'ndeki evde rüya görürken, küçük kardeşi Ulysses yatağının başına gelmiş onu dinliyordu. Karanlık evde yolunu bularak annesinin odasına gitti doğruca. Sarsarak uyandırdı onu. Annesi yatakta doğrulunca, elinden tutarak hiçbir şey söylemeden Homer'ın yatağına götürdü."
For some reason, I had always avoided reading he work of William Saroyan, but for some reason I picked up a copy of The Human Comedy at the local library and read it.
I was enchanted by the author's vision of a small agricultural town in which the local residents are, for the most part, decent human beings who are kind to one another.At the center are the two Macauley boys, Homer and Ulysses (the name of the town is Ithaca), their family and friends.
The world of Ithaca is surrounded by the same dark clouds that surround all of us, and Saroyan never Disneyfies his work.
Բարի, բարի Սարոյան... Սարոյանը վարպետ է նկարագրությունների՝ առաջին հերթին՝ բարության։ Օգնո՞ւմ է դա ապրել։ Չգիտեմ, երևի օգնել է իրեն։ Հիմա պիտի կարդալ, ու հետո, ու հետո, ավելի շուտ՝ օգուտ չի տա, չնայած աղջիկս տեսնեմ ինչ տպավորություններով կվերջացնի գիրքը ։) Էլեկտրոնայինը, էլի Յավրուհրատից ու թող ներվի Սարոյանի կողմից։
Non era certo il momento adatto, personalmente, per una storia così, anche se proseguendo la lettura ho iniziato ad entrare in sintonia con i personaggi e quell'ingenuità di cui parlava qualcuno è forse voluta, per esorcizzare quei momenti, come accennato anche nella prefazione:Nella Commedia umana quindi l’autore non si propone tanto di descrivere la realtà, quanto di trasfigurarla in modo fantastico, come indica questo finale del romanzo.
Con amore e nostalgia.E poi alcuni di quei passaggi educativi, ancora oggi, non farebbero male ai giovanissimi e forse nemmeno a qualche adulto.
I read this in high school, back in the Seventies, and it had such a profound impact.
I read it every three or four year While the story develops through deceptively simple.
vignettes, Saroyan writes poignantly about war, family,love, social class, and death.
The characters are richly drawn, through their thoughts and interactions.
Scenes and images are so touching and vividly that they remain long after you finish the book.Just a bit of literary linking: I definitely see traces of Saroyan's style in later writers like Vonnegut.
"Human Comedy" is one of those classics that grows increasingly obscure and deserves to be considered classic Amercan lit.
เรียบงาย ละมุนละไมมันอบอุน ดีตอใจ .. ตัวละครโดยมากมีความเอืออารีตอกันเปนโลกแสนสวยในสถานการณแสนเศรา(เรืองเกิดขึนในยุคสงคราม)แมจะไมมีฉากรบในเรืองแตสถานการณของสงครามกทำใหเรืองนีมีสีหมนๆชอบหลายอยางมากๆ ในหนังสือเลมนี โดยเฉพาะตอนจบมันเปนตอนจบทีสวย ซึง ตราตรึง และประทับใจขึนแทนหนังสือในดวงใจเราไปเลยคะ
เรียบง่าย ละมุนละไมมันอบอุ่น ดีต่อใจ .. ตัวละครโดยมากมีความเอื้ออารีต่อกันเป็นโลกแสนสวยในสถานการณ์แสนเศร้า(เรื่องเกิดขึ้นในยุคสงคราม)แม้จะไม่มีฉากรบในเรื่องแต่สถานการณ์ของสงครามก็ทำให้เรื่องนี้มีสีหม่นๆชอบหลายอย่างมากๆ ในหนังสือเล่มนี้ โดยเฉพาะตอนจบมันเป็นตอนจบที่สวย ซึ้ง ตราตรึง และประทับใจขึ้นแท่นหนังสือในดวงใจเราไปเลยค่ะ
من می دانم که دشمن مردم نیستند.زیرا اگر مردم می توانستنددشمن باشند پس من هم دشمن خود بودم.مردم دنیا همه مثل یک فرد واحدند.اگر از همدیگر نفرت داشته باشندوبه خودشان نفرت ورزیده اند.بشر نمی تواند از دیگران نفرت داشته باشد.در این صورت خودش را هم منفور داشته است.p282
من دشمنی انسانی نمیشناسم زیرا هیچ انسانی نمیتواند دشمن من باشد .دشمن،هر که هست،از هر نژاد و به هر رنگی که هست،اصول و عقایدش هر چقدر که خطاست،باز دوست من است نه دشمن من،.زیرا متفاوت از من نیست.جنگ من با او نیست بلکه با خاصیتی،با خویی که در اوست و من باید اول با چنان خویی اگر در خود من هم هست بجنگم.
I enjoyed the story of a California family during World War 2: the dad has passed away, the older brother is fighting in the war, the teenage brother delivers telegraph messages such as messages telling mothers that their sons have been killed in the war, and the 4-year-old brother runs all over town unsupervised and observing lots of interesting things.There are lots of words of wisdom in this book (or, as Madi would roll her eyes and say, "It's PREACHY!").
Here's the mother talking to her teenage son:"There will always be pain in things...Knowing this does not mean that a man shall despair.
The story revolves around the Macauley family, Homer is fourteen and works at the telegraph office during World War 2.
It is heartbreaking when he has to deliver the messages to families that their son has died at war.
Marcus the older brother has gone to war.
He had been the man of the family since the father had died.
And also when kids had to grow up fast, all of a sudden Homer at fourteen is the head of the house, working and attending school, delivering messages of death when he should be worrying about the two-twenty hurdles and the girls at school.
Не понравился мне William Saroyan!!!!!!!
Очень не понравился!!!!!!!Очень фальшивые, ненастоящие люди населяют эту книгу.
Все страшно хорошие, добрые, благородные, не страшны им никакие невзгоды!!!
Получились, просто, какие-то самоотверженные коммунисты.
А когда эти люди открывали рот, то ничего, кроме затасканных "мудростей" не сообщали, да и похвалить себя и собеседника тоже не забывали!!!Чтение этой небольшой книги стало для меня настоящей пыткой, рад, что она закончилась!!!
Но всё же не хочется составлять мнение о писателе после прочтения одной книги (зато какой!!!), поэтому хочу как-нибудь почитать и какое-нибудь другое его произведение.P.S. Но предисловие мне понравилось, оно такое трогательное.
Такое ощущение, как будто его написал другой человек.

I read this book 30 years ago and it made absolutely no impression on me whatsoever, so I thought I should read it again, in case I missed something. It still makes no impression on me today, other than being very preachy and brimming with naive sentimentality. I hope I remember not to read it again 30 years from now.
Un libro publicado en 1943 por un premio Pullitzer que narra las vivencias de un cartero de un pequeño pueblo de EEUU encargado de notificar la muerte de soldados a sus familiares. Una visión de la guerra desde norteamerica muy diferente a la acostumbrada. Muy bueno.
But heavens: The paperback (which I ended up reading) has a horrendous, off-putting appearance: it looks exactly like the type of book a teacher would assign to test your resolve to be in this course: beige, trees.
I would've probably gone many more years before giving it a go, but I found the hardback (see the thumbnail representation I selected to honor the reading of this fine novel) at an antique store.
I didn't buy it: six dollars a bit steep for a book that looked like it had been chew-toyed, the dustjacket tattered and torn in spots - but the cover was far more whimsical and inviting and suggestive of treasures within.
The problem is the book is terribly dated, and not in a good way.Saroyan was originally writing a movie script with the title, The Human Comedy, and based on Saroyan's youth in Fresno, but he had a disagreement with the studio and although they went on to produce a movie, he took the title and the idea and created this book, intended to lighten hearts during World War II.
Homer has lied about his age and is working as a delivery boy for a telegraph company and some of the telegrams he delivers are from the war department announcing the death of a son overseas.
بزرگسالان می توانند چگونگی برخورد با بیماران، مهمان نوازی، رفتار و منش پسندیده را به کودکان بیاموزند، گرچه به همین صورت ممکن است دیدگاه های نزادپرستانه و اندیشه های خام و نادرست را نیز به آنها انتقال دهند.
بزرگسالان کل تمرکز و حواسشان روی مرگ، جنگ، و مسائل اقتصادی است، تمام آنچه در زندگی روزمره ی شخصیت های رمان کمدی انسانی نوشته ی ویلیام سارویان می بینیم.
از دید سارویان، کودکان در "زندگی را زندگی کردن" متخصص و متبحر اند، درحالی که بزرگسالان بیشتر دانش و آگاهی شان درباره مرگ است.
بزرگترها بیشتر کودکان را به غرق شدن در غم و اندوه و دور شدن از امید و رویاها سوق می دهند.
Макар „Човешка комедия“ да ми се стори твърде идеализирано четиво и да не се класира като номер едно в любимите ми антивоенни романи, със своето послание и дълбок психологизъм повестта със сигурност оставя траен отпечатък в съзнанието. Защото описва свят, който дори изправен пред трудности, се стреми да надскочи ...http://knijno.blogspot.com/2015/07/bl...
beautiful, moving and very kind
Innocence and simplicity-both in the characters and in the writing.
