https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1902383.Cecily_G_and_the_9_Monkeys
A cute story that helps explain to young readers about the orignis of Curious George.
Cecily soon befriends these monkeys, which includes a highly energetic George.
The monkeys and Cecily come up with some wonderful games, using height and agility to their advantage.
When trouble strikes, Cecily and the nine monkeys are able to work together to solve it as a coordinated team.
He tells me that there are times when listening to a book makes it easier to be able to do other things at the same time.
I have an audiobook reader in the making!
I hope I am wrong).I know this book is meant for children but this should never have been written because then you have to address to a child how come George left his family to go live with a stranger in a faraway land.
Probably this is the reason why I haven't encountered children books like Curious George in the 21st century because then you have to explain how it is perfectly fine for an animal to get captured by humans and then comes to love its captor and they become friends.
My love of reading started when i was young, and it gives me immense pleasure to provide books to Spread the Word Nevada, an organization that passes them on to children in the community.
Sometimes I'll find a book I remember reading when I was young and will read it again before passing it on.I don't rate these books using my normal scale, instead I give most of them three stars.
This isn't a Criticism of the book, simply my way of rating them as good for children.
Cecily G.
and the 9 Monkeys is a classic story and one of the first books from Margret/ H.A Rey, and one of the first times Curious George appears in their books.
It is interesting how different the style is, because it was written in 1939.
The images are simple, but interesting because of the use of watercolors/ sketch style cartoons.
The text is simple as well, and lots of white space is used.
I also enjoyed the theme of friendship throughout the story.
Cecily starts out as a very lonely giraffe, who meets 9 homeless monkeys who turn out to become her great friends.
Wow, what a lesson in dysfunctional relationships! Cecily has no friends, the monkeys have no place to live - should be the perfect match! The games they play together take advantage of Cecily, which she doesn't seem to mind because at least she has friends, right? There were was an interesting section at the end that talked about the authors and the evolution of the story from Europe to the US. This book is a one-time read for us.
I didn't know there was a Curious George book that came before the original Curious George books, so when I spotted this at the library, I plucked it right up to borrow. Some of the newer George stories are on repeat in our house, so this was a nice addition. Though I do like the originals and the newer stories better, it was interesting to see where such a beloved character came from.
This is a picture manual on how to take advantage of someone's loneliness. But the illustrations are just SO GOOD. The one with the giraffe in her dressing gown? To die for! But the story really is awful.
I love reading these books when I was a kid . All I wonder ever do was go to my room and read one of his books it always made me laugh when I needed to
It was nice meeting Cecily G., Curious George and his family. My little ones enjoyed the story for what it was.
http://cdnbookworm.blogspot.ca/2016/1...
wow
The story was a little too random for me, though the creativity of George and his siblings may appeal to the younger crowd.
Cecily Giraffe is alone and George and his family are homeless. They meet and play. Cecily has an idea that George and his family can live with her. It's a cute story full of whimsy . This is the first story where Curious George appears before he goes off on his own. It's a good story to teach children about pretend and working together to help each other. At the end of the book is a short biography of the author and his wife. I enjoyed that more. It helps children to learn more of the world and the past.
I don't know how appropriate this was to read to a 2.5 year old, so I fudged some of the text and talked a bit about what is "pretend", and also I noticed there were some weird bits that seemed internally hypocritical (like the monkeys' losing their home at the beginning of the story because of deforestation, and then when they're playing with Cecily, they cut down more trees so she can use them as stilts ...?), but on balance this was a pretty cute book. Not interested in reading it again, though.
This is the first book to feature Curious George. He's not the star in this one; he's one in a family of nine monkeys who lose their home. They meet up with a lonely giraffe who lost her family and . . . well, I'm sure you can guess what happens.I noticed that several reviewers complained about the monkeys' treatment of the giraffe. All I have to say is: they're monkeys. And everybody's happy. And this is children's fiction. My four-year-old son loved their antics.
Right, so, I love Curious George. But I find this book a little unsettling. The tie the giraffe's neck to a tree and then talk about what is essentially skinning her...But this is a cute book, as long as you don't over-think it. Nice to see how Curious George got his start and I loved reading the facts about the authors at the end of the book. Fascinating.
We love this original story featuring the debut of Curious George. The illustrations are charming, the story is whimsical and adventurous but still light-hearted. It might be worth checking out just to read more about the incredible lives of HA and Margaret Rey. This is another one I would add to our home library. This is the second time we've gotten it from the library.
Whimsical but slight precursor to the Curious George books, this one is about a lonely giraffe and the nine monkeys she befriends, and who seem aminly intereste dinplaying the sort of games one can paly with a cartoon giraffe e.g. turning her into a teeter-totter, ski slope, and so on. Mildly amusing, but not on the face of it a likely genesis for an enduring classic.
This is the first book to feature Curious George. I can't say I really liked the story -- I was a bit disturbed by the giraffe losing her skin -- but the illustrations are every bit as adorable as those in later books.
Apparently this is the first book in which Curious George makes his appearance. Considering I'm not in any way a fan of Curious George, this book was better than I expected. (Which is still not saying much.)
I never tire of reading this to students. They're amazed to learn George has a story before The Man With The Yellow Hat kidnapped him. Lots of clever illustrations but my favorite is when Cecily hangs her skin out to dry.
My 2 year old loves this book! It's very cute.
One of our family's favorites. A fun read. A great choice for every child's bookshelf.
I really enjoyed the afterword by Louise Borden about the Reys.
Today I learned: the name of Curious George's mother.Cute book! Highly recommended!!
My daughter and I giggled and laughed at each picture. What a fun book to share.
This book was a chore to read aloud, and all I could think of the whole time was "Poor Cecily!".
Emmet really likes it, but I think it's pretty dumb. Also, why would they have skis in the jungle?
I have always enjoyed Curious George. After reading this delightful story there is more info on the author and his wife. Very interesting!
How Curious George was born.
