https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/774637.Kanthapura
Alone to experience how violent the practice of non-violence becomes, the violence which practitioners of non-violence must undergo, suffer, is reason enough to read this one.Since we are in the realm of Gandhi here one is inevitably tempted to respond to the frequent, uninformed common wisdom that, Pacifism and non-violence and non-resistance may be good ideas, but they don’t work!
From the article I link below, I learn that Raja Rao is among a trio of early writers of Indian fiction in English.
___________"India As Metaphysic?: Revisiting Raja Rao’s fiction"By Kanishk Tharoor ;; 1 January 2015"Raj Rao was the last of the canonical “founding fathers” of Indian English-language fiction to pass away.
I expected stories from around this place, of the Hassan belt, but Raja Rao's Kanthapura existed elsewhere - on the banks of the (fictional) Himavathy river, nearer Karwar, near Puttur and still walkable from the Cauvery.
Like Malgudi, it is fictional.Unlike R.K. Narayan's tales about a few people living in Malgudi, this is the tale of the town itself - its quiet ways, its characters, and then its non-violent uprising against British rule, the uprising being crushed, and the people having to abandon the town.
Also, here's a review of Raja Rao's works by Kanishk Tharoor in the Caravan: http://www.caravanmagazine.in/books/i...
Gerakan ini awalnya dipelopori oleh seorang pemuda bernama Moorthy, yg telah membuang studinya untuk kembali ke Kantapura dan membangkitkan perasaan merdeka di kalangan kaum Paria, kaum terbuang di desanya.
Dengan resiko terbuang dari kastanya dan dimusuhi oleh orang-orang berpengaruh, gerakan dan cita-cita Moorthy menyebar hingga ke wilayah-wilayah di sekitar desanya.
Dan uniknya lagi, buku ini ditulis menggunakan sudut pandang seorang wanita tua dari desa tersebut.Trus, kenapa hanya dua bintang?
Menurut prembule, buku ini ditulis menggunakan bahasa Inggris yg cukup sederhana, dan kata sambungnya hanya menggunakan "DAN".
This is a shining example of the kind of books that professors set for mandatory reading that make you want to scratch your own eyeballs out with a rolling pin.
I don't even know where to begin to explain exactly why I hate this book so much.
It may go something like the terrible grammar and the stupid characters and the over describing and the author's pomposity and the and the and the and the AND THE AND THE AND THE AND THE!!!How many times can one man use the words "AND" in one paragraph?
THIRTY FOUR TIMES.That is all.
Loved reading Kanthapura.This novel is a complete mixture of Religion,Mythology and History.
The fights between mahatma and british draws the picture of the fight between Rama and Ravana, between the forces of good and evil like Krishna against the Kalia or Kansa, Prahlad against his own father, Harishchandra against the Asuras, Besides, the mahatma is Mohan (Krishna) slaying the serpent of foreign rule.
Again Gandhi is compared to Rama as well as Shiva, Motherland is compared to Sita and the british Government is compared to Ravana.Shankara is a "veritable dharmraj" and swaraj is compared to the three eyed shiva.
Rao uses English to try to communicate an Indiana vernacular mode of storytelling, with very intriguing (if long-winded) results. The story itself revolve around the rise of Ghandi, and ends on a rather ubiquitous note.
contrary to what E.M.Forster thinks, this is not the best novel written in English by an Indian
The book is a good one but mind that it is heavy with Gandhian principles.
The protagonist Moorthy is a adherent follower of the principles of Ahimsa and Satyagraha.
These goals cost Moorthy his lives.
Many other villagers loose their lives in the processions that they carry out.The ending of the novel is a bit dis-satisfying as the title village "Kanthapura" is left barren, all in ruins.
Only the patel of the village stays back there and other people settle in some other village.Rao's use of language is appreciated.
His language has the capability to retain the essence of the south indian culture.
Terrific story of how independence struggle caught up in a sleepy Karnataka Village.
The best part of this book is the honest account of rural India. The narration will make you feel like listening to some rural folk. If you are familiar with rural India then you too will acknowledge the striking similarity in the language.
I was reasonably aware of Mahatma Gandhi’s struggle with the British to gain independence (Swaraj).
The hero of this story, Moorthy, has returned to his southern Indian village (Kanthapura) near Mysore as a Gandhi devotee.
The story unfolds with brutal awareness that non-violent techniques will result in horrific confrontations with those in power.
However the story conveys how Indians of all castes began to queue up behind independence forces and a radical new mode of thinking.
In addition to Raja Rao’s epic story telling, I highly recommend the notes on Indian myths, religion, social customs, and brief history of the Independence movement at the end of the book.
Sehingga yaa dinikmati saja dan temukan kejutan-kejutan di dalamnya.Buku ini memang sedang menyorot tokoh bernama Moorthy, dan perjuangan untuk melakukan revolusi di Kantapura, desa kecil di daerah India Selatan.
Revolusi yang dilakukannya ialah untuk melawan kekangan Inggris dan sistem ekonomi yang hanya menguntungkan kapital besar.
Moorthy mulai melawan dengan memberikan mesin pemintal dan benang gratis kepada kaum wnaita Kantapura untuk membuat mereka berpenghasilan dan memakai pakaian buatan sendiri, tapa harus membeli dari penjual yang itu hanya menguntungkan merka dan inggris.
Kemudian dilanutkan dengan mencoba menanam padi sendiri, hingga membuat Kongres.Tapi tidak ada perjuangan tanpa perlawanan.
It truly reflects the state of society in times of British rule over India.
To put it in words of his editor Parthasarthy,'We might be intellectually English but emotionally we are Indians.'A great insight into society and culture and religion and casteism and Gandhi and British.
Typical Indian thought process shown and one does feel closer to reality of those times even though the work is only inspired by the reality.
This book can be annoying for few readers but I did not mind the experimentation by Raja Rao. One also understands the Gandhi-ism better with this book and reasons as to why so many people were supporting him.
This was just....not good. The amalgamation of myth and reality could have been done in a much more comprehensive and smooth manner. Here, its confusing and makes the work more convoluted than it should be.
Tale twined in the village of Kanthapura a real microcosm of India with its casteist village, built-around temple politics, villainous Mohammedan Police man and the christian colonialists.
540 - 2016
Better than other books by Raja Rao that I have read.
It is such a difficult read, been almost a year and I still can't finish it.
It's almost like the author decided against writing a readable piece of literature.
The characters, the language, the prose and the stroyline are all so difficult to follow, but at the same time they evoke these scenes right in front of you, particularly if you've been to one of the quaint towns in South India.
At the same time, I just wish it was as good a read as Malgudi series, and it's here this book is so far away from the latter.
The voice of the narrator, her character, sense of humour, worldview, & her connection to & love for her community are so strong in this tale of Gandhian satyagraha & Congress' efforts at swaraj come to small-town South India.
Our narrator - an older aunty of the village of Kanthapura - is the perfect voice to communicate the experience of this time for everyday rural Indians, and her story unfolds as if she is relating a series of events to us, perhaps acquaintances or family of a neighbouring village.
Kanthapura by Raja Rao ( 214 pg, 4 days, Rating : 5/5)Published in 1938, this book was written, about the pre-independence struggle of India, by Rao far away from India in a castle in France. It's definitely a 'literary manifesto to point out an Indian way of appropriating English Language( which was a brabe work during pre-independence of India). From phrarses, to words, to narrative( an typical tale-telling- grandmotherly way of narrative) Indianness runs through the veins of this book. However, this book may seem a little boring because of less use of 'fullstops' and extreme use of 'and'.
"Raja Rao is not interested in the story of the mighty but in that of the nameless."Check out my full review here: http://easternlightsblog.com/2018/12/...
Finest of Indian litreature in English. It does not lean on the translatory mode to give the native flavour. The ease with which the english gets indianized is remarkable. Raja Rao best is relevent even after eight decades
Impact of gandhi on writer is clearly shown in the novel
This is the first book I have read by Raja Rao, and I was hooked after reading the first few lines.
The book is a fictional account of a quaint little village in the southern part of India.
Unlike, other accounts of freedom struggle, the novel hits you not because you see tremendous sacrifice and acts of bravery, but because you see small sacrifices and small acts of kindness mingled with doubt and fear.
Kanthapura, the village of women, that is ancient and yet current, and its people, who continue to inhabit the India of today.
Perlawanan rakyat India terhadap kolonial Inggris di masa Gandhi. Tapi bukan Gandhi tokoh utamanya!
summary, how our indian mentality about caste was there @ the time of freedom struggle, is narrated in most humble and mythical ways...
A difficult read, but I appreciate why it was difficult.
I read this book because it was prescribed in my syllabus. Very interesting book explores the Gandhian thoughts.
Good
Kanthapura is a fictional village in Gandhi's pre-independence India.
A few people in the village declare their loyalty to Gandhi's Congress movement, and over the course of the novel most of them join.The writing is very lyrical and poetic.
All of this adds to the book rather than detracts from it.The story progresses along lines I think of as 'early union stories' (dunno if there's a proper academic term for this).
Kanthapura is about nationalism and self-determination of peoples rather than a fair wage.
I was tempted to say 'enjoy', but I think that would be out of line given the subject matter.
