https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/557265.The_Mystery_of_the_Spiteful_Letters
But Mrs Hilton thinks this is not a case for children to be concerned with and tries to keep them from even getting any hint of it, calling Mr Goon to the house after they have been sent away on a picnic.
Luck favours them and with their skills they are able to beat poor Mr Goon out yet again, surprising even Mrs Hilton who is forced to admit they did a great job again.This was in some ways different from the earlier books in the sense of the children having no clues to follow for the most part but they do employ their detective skills going about interviewing various people involved and thinking of ways to start up conversations with them without seeming too rude or nosy.
This is a good book. I love the mystery. But I think Blyton should named all the series with "Fatty The Find-Outer" because it seems like he's the one who always solves the mysteries. The other kids are just supporting characters.
The story revolves around some nasty anonymous letters that have been sent to various people in the village.
It's quite a good story, although I remembered easily 'whodunnit', despite not having read this book for probably twenty years or more.
But I don't really think that gives children a poor idea of the police force; there are other policemen in the books who are fair and generally nice people.
There's even a moral lesson about the nastiness of anonymous letters in general.
it was a good book
Saya nggak sengaja nemuin buku ini pas lagi ke tempat penyewaan.
mungkin karena dari kecil sudah senang baca cerita detektif atau misteri, saya jadi langsung kepancing begitu lihat sinopsis bukunya.
buku ini termasuk salah satu yang berkesan.
satu hal yang saya suka; saya nggak bisa nebak siapa penjahat di bukunya!
bukannya gimana-gimana, kadang cerita detektif (baik buku atau film) sangat mudah ditebak alurnya, bahkan siapa pelaku utamanya.
di buku ini, saya sama sekali nggak bisa nebak siapa penjahatnya.
saya nggak begitu suka Fatty, dia diceritakan sedikit sombong walaupun cerdas dan banyak akal.
buku ini bagus, walaupun udah bisa dibilang kuno.
Was quite fun, the lead investigator Fatty (real name Frederick) is the brains of the group, which there are a lot.
Goon telling him to find the man named Smith (there can’t be many people with that last name) and to find a place called the Ivies cause people’s homes have names in this neck of the woods.
He knows of neither man nor house so comes upon the idea that Fatty has been playing a joke on him.
He accuses Fatty, realizes he is wrong and gives up.
Thus leaving the mysterious notes with Fatty- and from there Fatty and friends take up investigation.
I was recently reunited with my Find-Outers books after storage boxes from my old house were sent over, and I was so excited to re-read them, starting with this one! These books were my childhood, and to be transported back to Peterswood with the children (and Buster) was so lovely. It's been so long since I've read them that I've actually forgotten most of the mysteries and culprits, so it simultaneously felt new and nostalgic. The plot of this one is simple but cute, and I can't wait to read the other ones I have.
I'd read this book many years ago in Greek. At the matter of fact I had all the Five Find-Outers books as a child! When I found the English edition on Hay-on-Wye festival I was so excited. Now I wish I would have bought more ... I really enjoyed it. It took me back to my childhood!!!
A nice little mystery.....
Revisiting a childhood favourite on Kindle
Someone is writing spiteful letters to people in town, and, of course, it becomes next mystery to solve for the kids.
Fatty clearly has the leading role in this book, Mr. Goon is as arrogant and angry as always.
Probably few more books, and I will switch to something else - it gets too repetitive, even though still classics, and still pleasant to read.
P.S. It's curious how you approve kids' actions and resent grown-ups that are hiding mystery from them - when reading this from kids point of view.
But when you imagine that these kids are yours - no way you would easily allow them to get into any more trouble.
This has very much become The Fatty Show; I would have liked to see the others get their moments in the spotlight. Also, I wanted to learn something about the culprit's underlying motives for writing the spiteful letters, assuming there were any!Again, the best parts of the story involve the children's activities as a quintet. I always found "woo-hoo-collywobbles" a very memorable name for a game, and I like the idea that Pip "had really let himself go" as it rings true with the developing and strengthening group dynamic.
Who is the nasty person writing the unkind letters to people everywhere - Fatty and Co are on the trail - with the continuing unresolved tension between Fatty and Bets and the continuing ridiculous we have to compete against the coppers story line and Fatty with his disguises etc it is all a bit crazy but it is reasonably entertaining - it really is different when you read it as an adult compared to as a child, you see different things, and perhaps miss other things?
The Mystery of the Spiteful Letters by Enid Blyton was a more clever mystery than some in the series. The Find-Outers came up with some good ideas in their sleuthing. Unfortunately, the motivation of the culprit was lacking. It was not at all obvious why the perp sent the spiteful letters. All in all though, good fun.
Someone's writing horrid letters, exposing secrets and making people remember bad things. Of course, the letters aren't as bad as what they could be in the real world, but they are still pretty nasty for an Enid Blyton book. The clues are few and far between, how will the Find Outers solve this case? Read it and find out for yourself, another five star book.
The mystery of the spiteful letters is a fun read. The five find-Outers and the dog, kids who are into solving mysteries of daily lives. Kids naturally loves these adventures. Pre-Harry potter age, kids have been following these stories for over 40 years. There is a hilarious and unforgettable character mr Goon.
This is number 4 of 15 of "The mystery of the...." series by Enid Blyton. I hope this one is a blip rather than an example of what's left to come in the remaining stories. The first 3 were great; this one a bit weak. I'll try one more to see if they improve. Otherwise, I'll be moving onto reading something else to the children!
Ini adalah serial Pasukan Mau Tahu yang saya punya, tapi bukan yang pertama kali saya baca. Karakter favorit saya: Pip. Karakter yang paling enggak saya suka: Bets. Lol. Selera saya emang aneh. Ywdlah.
It all started when Fatty and friends received a intruging mystery , when someone or something sent their maid a spiteful letter can they figure out who sent the letter with their only clue?(The Letter!)
Enid Blyton is an entertaing author and her books have been loved by children. I have been reading her books from a young age and when there doesn't seem to be a good choic in books, I know if I read one of her books it'll amuse me again and again.
I LOVED this book, I absolutely like the mystery series and this book was also great!!! This book had a great twist: to thing that Mrs Moon was always with them under their noses wrote the letter... And of course poor mr goon (sarcastic) This is a must read!
ok :-) it was nice :-)
Someone is sending unpleasant anonymous letters to several people in the village of Peterswood - a new case for the Find-Outers to investigate! Lighthearted, entertaining fun.
One of my childhood favourites. Hoping to find the other books in the series in the library.If you like a little adventure and feel like a kid once again, you should definitely read this book.
A nostalgic tale that takes me back to my childhood.
2 euroa maksanut kirja tarttui mukaan divarista kartuttamaan Blyton-kokoelmaa. Ihan samaa laatua kuin muutkin Salaisuus-kirjat.
They find out finally who is sending badly written letters.
I'm on a Enid Blyton roll and it's been great till now!
sekarang dicetak ulang lagi, tapi ya walopun di pertengahan cerita kadang sudah tau aja endingnya gimana, tetep aja seru membaca petualangan Fatyy dkk vs Mr. Goon :D
I didn't love the Five Find-Outers quite as much as the Famous Five, but it was close! A lot of the stories were more interesting to me, but I just didn't like the characters quite as much.
