https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33570.Tex
My favorite S.E. Hinton book. Yes I prefer this to the Outsiders.
This book involved the characters Tex, Mace, Lem, Pop, Jonny, Jamie, and Cole.
Tex starts learning things about his life and other friends like Jonny, Lem, and Jammie.
Tex is a smart kid that always seems to be in some kind of trouble.
Tex is sometimes getting mad with Mace because Mace acts like the father.
Lem was once Mace's best friend.
Tex is his son but, not like Mason.
Jamie is a girl that Tex likes and is the sister of Jonny.
Cole is the father of both Jonny and Jamie.
The best Hinton title, IMHO. And that Matt Dillon cover sure don't hurt!
I really liked Tex when I was in junior high school. I recently re-read it, and while it isn't as influential to me as it used to be, it's still a great story with a straightforward plot and wonderful characters.
Tex Review Book Rating: 5 stars out of 5.
I will always love the Outsiders more than this book.
Tex is living alone with his brother.
His friend, Johnny, and his little sister/Tex's crush find him.
Tex was an awesome character from the beginning.
He always loved his older brother and father.
Mason was pretty cold throughout the book.
He at least had love for his brother.
I knew that he really cared about Tex throughout the whole story.
His father was pretty horrible throughout the book too.
I also didn't really like Tex's parent figure much either.
(Boy, do I know that feeling.) Tex loves his horse, his best friend's big sister, and his absentee Pop. The story is compact and quick-moving.
This book has a big heart that appeals to readers beyond the yaf crowd.The story does a good job of pitting the brothers against the forces that work to ruin their lives (drugs, the law, unintentional pregnancy, motorcycles, trouble at school, you know, all the sorts of bad news and misfortunes that tend to follow certain people).
All Hinton's subsequent YA novels are tainted by pessimism and a sense of pandering to the concept of teen rebellion.
All of them feature varying levels of drug use, and usually a narrator who has given up hope.Tex has a lot to recommend it.
All of these things make it competitive with The Outsiders, and in some ways better.As a teacher, I cannot endorse a book with the casual attitude toward marijuana that Hinton relates here.
Tex comments that weed is something everyone has tried and talks about it in a way that implies that the reader has, too.
I plan to, I actually plan on reading all of her work seeing as she lives here in Tulsa.
Yes, these books are aimed at teens but I enjoyed it as well.
This little book is a snippet of life in a small town, two brothers and their trials and tribulations in a few short years of their lives.
I think it has a little bit of everything in it when I think back on the teen years.
I grew up in a small town and this book had so many things that rang true of life in one of these nondescript small towns that cover our country.
I recently re-read this book with my son. Not as influential to me as when I read it first time as a Junior in high school. Still a good story.
Throughout the majority of the book, it appeared Tex’s brother, Mason, was more of a father figure than his actual father.
His view on everyone he knew was shifted slightly.Tex’s view on his life changed drastically during the course of the book.
He lived life to the fullest, and the only person there to stop him was Mason.
Throughout the course of the book, Tex’s emotions changed towards the people he loved and where he lived.
It felt like home with only Mason in the house.
The book shows that though everything, family will stay together.
Tex's brother, Mace, has been like his father for as long as he can remember.
Mace is a star basketball player who wants nothing more than to leave.
Mace is Tex's brother and doesn't change much throughout the book.
I believe the setting impacts the story by making certain events more likely to happen.
It also influences the characters and their behaviors.I believe the author was trying to display the life of a teenager, and show that you should never take what you have for granted.
However, I believe I use what Tex learned throughout the story in my own life.
This is a good one, but it's not my favorite of hers, not even close.
I do still like the connections to the other books that you wouldn't really know unless you really looked - the hitchhiker, for example, being a character from That Was Then, This Is Now, which is connected to The Outsiders, which is...
either way, that's always a lot of fun, and I do really like that.
A very well-made character, that boy is.Overall, this is just another one of those things where I really love S.
E. Hinton and am also a little mad because of how good she was at such a young age.
But that's because nothing ever will.I really loved Tex's relationship with Mason, and I sort of liked seeing them as Ponyboy and Darry: the demented, backwards versions.
I adored Jamie, and was kind of like, 'thank God, finally a girl character in one of her books who has a spine.'My own problem (and this is very minor), is the use of the names Johnny and Bob. Really?
Johnny Collins, though I liked him well enough, is not my JohnnyCake.
I think it must be times for me to reread Outsiders for the, erm, twenty-something time.
I would consider reading this book again I thought it was that good.
This book started off with Tex just living a normal life as a young man.
He lived at home with his brother who cared and provided for him.
Tex and his brother had a gang of friends.
Everyone in the gang was loyal to each other and cared for each other.
Tex survived getting shot but it taught him and his gang of friends a lesson.
I feel that people around that age could relate more to Tex and the choices and the struggles that he faces in this great book.
One of my old time Favourites!
Avendo apprezzato da adolescente "Ribelli", mi ero promesso di leggere quest'altro libro dell'autrice, senza riuscire a finirlo, riprendendolo la bellezza di dodici anni dopo.
L'ambientazione è la stessa e in parte anche lo svolgimento dell'intreccio.
Il protagonista Tex, similmente a Ponyboy e Rusty-James, è orfano di un genitore ed è lasciato a sé, potendo contare soltanto sulla responsabile figura fraterna di turno, Mason, con cui spesso discute animosamente ma non può fare a meno; come Darry o il Ragazzo della Motocicletta, costui assolve una sorta di ruolo paterno per il problematico ragazzo.
Of course I read this many years ago... but it's def. time to reread!
dAMN BOI THAT WAS SUCH A GOOD BOOK !
THIS. BOOK. MELTS. MY. HEART. <33
Personal response: Having previously read The Outsiders as well as That Was Then, This is Now, I was not worried about author S.E. Hinton's ability to tell a good coming of age story of a troubled youth.Plot: Tex McCormick lives in Oklahoma with his brother, Mason.
When Tex and his brother are driving back home from the city, Tex decides to pick up a hitchhiker.
Mason reveals that Pop is not Tex’s real father.
In the hospital he tells Mason that he feels he came close to becoming like the hitchhiker.Setting: Tex takes place around the same time as The Outsiders which is during the 1960’s.
The storyline spoke to me like no other book I've read before.
Proving that no matter the situation, working really hard can be a good way to be in control of things.
After school, Tex went home to ride his horse, but his brother,Mason, sold both horses.
The next day, Tex went to school and everyone asked him what happened, he never told them.
Listening to the ranch/cowboy theme, makes sense to be in this location during this time period.THEMATIC CONNECTION: The thematic connection behind this book is always do the right and proper thing.
With Tex and Mason picking up the criminal, they didn’t do the right thing.
Tex would be the kid I was nice to in order to talk him into doing stupid things for my amusement.Plot: Tex was a kid in middle school living with his older brother, Mason.
They lived in the country but were close enough to the city that drugs and alcohol were easy to come by.
Tex and Mason did not agree with this choice and shunned their friend.
Many times Tex and Mason were hiding secrets about their father from the other adults they knew.
However, he was in extreme amount of pain.Recommendation: I would recommend this book to boys and girls in middle school.
The book "Tex" by S.E. Hinton, is a story about a boy who grew up in Oklahoma.
He grew up on a farm with his mother and father and brother Mason.
Mason and Tex start having a lot of bills come in but, they are running out of money to pay for them.
His dad is mad and tells Tex some unbelievable news that changes his life.
Mason is the complete opposite, he is responsible and rarely ever gets in trouble.The story takes place in Oklahoma in the country on a farm.
A lot happens throughout the book that changes the story.
I can’t wait to read another book by this author.
PLOT It all started when Tex comes home to Mason, his older brother, pouting in the corner.
Tex didn’t believe he sold the horses so he went looking for them.
Tex ran away and found a family friend named Lem. Lem was on his way to a drug deal, so he took Tex. The deal started off good but then they went crazy and Tex got a gun pulled on him.
Tex and Jamie never really got together.
Tex and Mason get along better than ever and their Pa is here to stay.
I especially liked was how throughout the book you could see how Tex was maturing and changing whether it be about the choices he made, or how he fell in love with a girl.
She was not just any girl, she was his best friend's sister, which made things a little awkward.
Jamie is Johnny's sister and the girl Tex falls in love with.
Lem is an old friend of Tex and Mason and ends up getting them into some trouble.
Pop is Tex and Mason's father.
Johnny spoiled teenager also Tex's best friend.
Mason has to sell Tex's horse Negrito because he needs the money to take care of them and he knows the horses would have died over the winter anyways.
While Tex and Mason are Financially his best friend Johnny and his crush Jamie get anything and everything that they ask for!
Tex's dad finally decides to show up and his excuse is he lost track of time!
So Tex goes because he would be getting some money.
Tex also gets shot!
Mark gets killed in this book and I didn't realize that until years later that it was the same Mark who had been Bryon's best friend in That was Then this is now.
Wish I could have read how that went down.But to get to this story well Tex is a young teen enjoying life and doesn't take anything seriously for he's not the one who worries about how they're going to eat or pay their bills this falls on his older brother Mason who is forced to sell their horses just so they can eat.
I enjoyed this book and highly recommend it especially to teenagers who can relate to many things Tex goes through.
Throughout the book Tex and his friend, Johnny, are getting into constant trouble.
Mason’s old friend, Lem, comes back as a drug dealer and tells them about his baby.
Later in the book Tex saves Mason’s life from a hitchhiker who held Mason as a hostage to get him over the border.
Tex gets mad at Mason and accompanies Lem on a deal.
Johnny is Tex’s friend who will occasionally do pranks with him and gives him rides on his sweet motor bike.
Lem is Mason’s old friend turned drug dealer.
It is about a fourteen year old boy who lives in a small town with his brother Mason.
Tex has some problems at home like not having any money to help Mason pay the bills, and their father left and has been gone longer than they thought he would be.
He has many of the same problems that all teenagers have but he can overcome these problems by just thinking his way through it.Mason is Tex’s older brother and is the man of the house when their father left.
He desperately wants to leave the small town and live in a bigger city and be a basketball star.
