https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4820.Mayflower
Philbrick takes us beyond those years through the next couple of generations and presents a factual account of the violent and bloody wars fought between the New Englanders and the Native Americans.
It helped me slog through some of the more textbook-like sections when I knew I might find a little nugget of information I could perhaps read aloud to my husband – or maybe even share with the family at our Thanksgiving gathering in a couple of weeks from now.
During one of the final skirmishes of King Philip’s War, several Native Americans were taken as captives.
Rocks fall, all the Native Americans die.(One of the most interesting things about Mayflower is how little of it actually dealt with the ship itself.
He takes an excellent look at a period in time frequently overlooked – American history tends to cover 1620, and then make its way to 1770 and the Revolutionary War in the next chapter (with a slight layover in 1692 for the Witch Trials).It’s incredibly well written, with an excellent balance between the big picture and individual narratives.
Rated at 180 tons (meaning her hold was capable of accomodating 180 casks or tuns of wine), she was approximately three times the size of the Speedwell and about one hundred feet in length.Philbrick, who wrote the splendid whaling book, In the Heart of the Sea, once again tells a fast-paced, informative story, filled with little interesting factoids that make you go, hmm.
The Mayflower/Pilgrims/Thanksgiving angle is quickly left behind.
The final two thirds of the book are devoted to Pilgrim/Indian politics and King Philip's War.This is certainly interesting stuff.
The author focuses primarily on two of the pilgrims: “I have focused on two people, one familiar, the other less so: Plymouth governor William Bradford and Benjamin Church, a carpenter turned Indian fighter whose maternal grandfather had sailed on the Mayflower.” The pilgrims were from Leyden in Holland, but they were Englishmen who practised a puritanical form of Christian faith which was not welcome in England.
Instead of an English affair, the First Thanksgiving soon became an overwhelmingly Native celebration when Massasoit and a hundred Pokanokets (more than twice the entire English population of Plymouth) arrived at the settlement with five freshly killed deer.”Those who were persecuted for their faith in England soon became the persecutors when Quakers arrived on the scene.
Philbrick does well to dwell on the factors that contributed to the surprisingly peaceful subsequent period of colonial growth and expansion for nearly 50 years and then to spend half the book on the causes and details of its breach in King Philip’s war of 1675, which decimated the Europeans and nearly extinguished several of the tribes in southern New England.
Take, for example, the event that most Americans associate with the start of the United States: the voyage of the Mayflower.We've all heard at least some version of the story: how in 1620 the Pilgrims sailed to the New World in search of religious freedom; how after drawing up the Mayflower Compact, they landed at Plymouth Rock and befriended the local Wampanoags, who taught them how to plant corn and whose leader or sachem, Massasoit, helped them celebrate the First Thanksgiving.
In reality, Philbrick offers the reader a complete history of Plymouth Colony from 1620-1691 (when it was merged into Massachusets Bay colony) The bulk of the narrative focuses on King Phillip's War (1675-76) for my money one of the most fascinating and under-reported armed conflicts in American History.
Philbrick chronicles the main engagements of the war, in a very evenhanded way, praising the colonists bravery when warranted, while at the same time not being afraid to call them the savage butchers that they clearly were.
And, I come away a little bit bitter and bothered by many different aspects of human behavior, the big one: man's intolerance of other people and their cultures and many times, their ability to blame their bad behavior on the teachings of the Bible or other beliefs in whatever God they worshipped.
Disingenuous, proud, sure that God was calling every shot whether good for them or bad for them, they marched ahead with this plan, and it was only with the help of some of the Indians they were even able to survive early on.
This author pointed out that there were good and bad people on both sides of the fence.
A must-read if you're from New England or interested in early colonial era history. Philbrick's Mayflower is written to capture your interest in a way you might not expect a book on the Pil--*YAWN!*--grims could. You'll find much more detail with way more truth in this book than anything you learned about those uptight prigs in elementary school!
They left Europe seeking religious freedom and after a difficult voyage on the Mayflower settled in New England where they struggled to survive and the Native Americans came to their aide.
Although the Pilgrims came to New England seeking religious freedom they were not very tolerant of others as the Quakers learned.
Another Native American who appeared to be supportive of the Pilgrims was named Squanto and acted as a translator but he was motivated by his own Machiavellian schemes.
It was brutal and we should be thankful that colonists and Native Americans did not totally wipe each other out due to their arrogance and stupidity.
Non-fiction about the Pilgrims, including their journey to form a religious colony in New England, the first Thanksgiving, the early years of the Plymouth settlement and how they survived, and their relationships with the Indians, which were friendly at first, but deteriorated into war in subsequent generations.
The first half of the book focuses on the arrival at Plymouth, the strong personalities of the inhabitants, and establishment of the colony, and the second half follows the next generations into King Philip’s War (1675-1677), an episode not often covered in our history classes, which set a sad precedent for how race relations between the settlers and the native population would proceed well into the nineteenth century.
Warto zaznaczyć, że tytułowy statek to jedynie początek, wskazówka, bo sama historia opisana przez Nathaniela Philbricka skupia się na procesie wykuwania nowego miasta, państwa i społeczeństwa na nowej nieznanej ziemi, w znoju i tych krótkich chwilach wywalczonego pokoju oraz krwawej, bezlitosnej wojny.
Bo ta podróż, tak historyczna jak i filozoficzna, nie zaczyna się wcale od Deklaracji Niepodległości i mów Franklina, Adamsa, Jeffersona i Waszyngtona.
Nie. Ta podróż zaczyna się już w 1620 roku, właśnie tutaj, od marzenia, od przeprawy, od statku Mayflower, ale przede wszystkim od tych ludzi, którzy porzucili wszystko w imię wolności, by stworzyć dom po drugiej stronie oceanu – pielgrzymów Nowego Świata.Wspaniała, wciągająca lektura nie tylko dla miłośników historii!
The Mayflower, as every American schoolchild has been taught, is the name of the ship that brought the "Pilgrims," a group of religious dissenters, to America to establish one of the earliest English colonies.
It's more an account of Amerindian/English relations in the first half century or so of the New England Puritan colonies, stretching from the landing in 1620 to "King Philip's War" ending in 1676.
Philbrick does as best he can to include the perspective of the Natives, despite the fact that just about every extant account we have was written by the English colonists.

The first half of the book is a real page-turner which details the pre-Mayflower days in England and Holland -the ordeal of finding financing while avoiding persecution from their mother country - and moves on to the 10-week voyage and the harrowing first winter in Plymouth.
As a result, I found the account of the war a bit less interesting than the first half of the book.I will say this: Philbrick does make many of the historical characters come alive - particularly Miles Standish and Benjamin Church - fleshing out and breathing life into many of the figures that we all have embedded in our consciousness as grade-school characatures.
In addition, the narrative shifts constantly to reflect whatever references were used at the time, which means introducing lots of characters.Prior to reading this, I knew very little about the Pilgrims - except for popular mythology - and I think this book gave me a much better appreciation for the significance of the Mayflower and her passengers as well as a more realistic idea of the relationship between the natives and European settlers.I was especially intrigued by the evolving and complex relationship that facilitated alliances on one hand and incited war on the other.
I find that while earlier versions of the story tend to view the Pilgrims universally as heroic (not a bad thing for young students in my view) the more recent attempts have gone the other way.
There is at least an attempt to recognize that here.The story follows the Europeans (Pilgrims) and the Indians (Native Americans) through meeting, working out a peace and the length of that peace until it's failure.I believe that anytime two cultures meet there doesn't need to be "imperial intentions".
the more advanced society tends to "swallow up" the not so advanced society (the Picts of Scotland might bear that out.) So it was with the native American Cultures.
It's good.
Philbrick includes so much interesting information upon the physical world, beyond the historic events and people.
Especially within ship voyages, as he does here with the Gulf Stream.These people on the Mayflower were serious about their religion.
And to have such faith in their God's protection!
But it is nearly impossible to form the perceptions and conceptions of their reality to what they would find, IMHO.
Four of those kids on the voyage were parceled out by a unforgiving husband to people who had no blood relation.
He is very good at his description and explanation.
The revised standard version from the '60s focuses on the decimation of the native populations, the rapacious capitalists among the first settlers, and perhaps the Pilgrims actual record of religious intolerance.Into these competing versions comes Nathaniel Philbrick's Mayflower: A Story of Courage, Community, and War (2006).
This leads to a major section of the book, on King Philip's War. Philbrick paints a fascinating picture of some of the personalities and cultural forces that defined the war, tensions not only between English settlers and natives, but within each group as well.The nuanced vision offered of early New England was very interesting, particularly the earliest discovery and the war, was fascinating.
This was simply a terrific read, a fascinating glimpse into the events and people serving as the first bricks in our nation's foundation.Beyond the fairytale images of "The First Thanksgiving", most basic American history skips from the Mayflower's 1620 landing in Plymouth the American Revolution, glossing over the rich and brawling century-and-a-half spanning these two events.
Philbrick zeroes in on the first half-century, stripping away the myth and homily typically associated with the Pilgrims and laying bare a fascinating tale of courage and deceit, of trusts forged and broken, of politics, religion, brutality, and war.
It was at times amazing to consider what the pilgrims went through and what they put the Native Americans through, but it wasn’t until the final chapter that the author pulled the pieces together and gave a narrative story and POV.
So, in a sense, by the time I “got it,” “it” was already over and I kind of missed the full flavor of the events.
One thing that didn’t escape me: the Pilgrims were self absorbed, clueless savages who were probably just as bad if not worse that the heathens they detested, cheated, defiled, persecuted, enslaved, quartered, beheaded, and ultimately destroyed in true genocidal fashion.
This book describes the years leading up to the voyage and the Pilgrims first fifty-five years in America.
The first part of the book reads like fiction with passages such as this: “What would have astounded a modern sensibility transported back to that Christmas Day in 1620 was the absolute quiet of the scene.
The Pilgrims needed the help of Indians to survive, so they did what they must to keep the peace with their neighbors.
But once the second generation came along, and they no longer needed help, peace dissolved and war was inevitable.
I look forward to reading more books by Nathaniel Philbrick.
Hollywood could make a great movie out of this story. Especially Benjamin Church who during King Philip's War became the first quintessential American frontiersman. Miles Standish was a bully and a bore. The whole venture would have been a death sentence without the intervention of the Indians (who didn't just help out of the goodness of their hearts.) Highly enlightening.
I also valued that this book brought to light a realistic view of how the Pilgrims approached the Native American people, land, and resources.
However, I found the book to be less about the voyage of the Mayflower and the overall life of the Pilgrims settling Plymouth Colony, and more of a factual recitation of the continuous conflict that ensued between the Pilgrims and the Native Americans.
Mayflower  was rather dry and, whereas I did learn a great deal, I found myself drowning in a sea of facts.
The book, as a friend had mentioned, reads more like a textbook, thus less enjoyable.As far as the story, I was expecting to learn more about the voyage (although it was established that there isn't much in the way of resources on the journey) and about the social aspects in the Pilgrim and/or Puritan communities.
I'd have to say that a quarter of the story revolved around community and culture with the other 3/4 dedicated to King Philip's War. Perhaps, the title should have indicated more about Pilgrim/Puritan and Native relations since that was the bulk of the book.3 stars
Profoundly readable history of the Mayflower and the Pilgrim's Plymouth Colony settlement in the early 17th century.
It is astounding what the early settlers had thrown at them and managed to barely survive.
Brutal weather, horrible leadership, devastating diseases, native American attacks and betrayals, and massive food shortages plagued the settlers right from the start and never let up.
It's a story of perseverance and courage against the relentless, unforgiving backdrop of early colonial America.Philbrick's writing, as usual, is razor sharp, engaging, and extraordinarily readable.
I'd highly recommend this book not only for people interested in early American history but also those looking for a surprisingly riveting, fast paced non-fiction read.
Nathaniel Philbrick's "Mayflower" is a wonderful rendering of the founding of the Plymouth Colony and its first half century.
Too, we meet Squanto, another Native American who worked with the colonists.
The book also discusses in detail the tragic King Philip's War. After Massasoit's death, one of his sons, Philip, began war against the colonists in New England (not just Plymouth).
It was a violent war, with much death and destruction among colonists and Native Americans' alike.
The death rate from war among Native Americans was 10%.
And it tells the ongoing story of the colonists for a half century after the landing at Plymouth.
Towards the end of the book Philbrick comments how the pilgrims in American history conscious are briefly mentioned before jumping forward a hundred years to the American Revolution where the real meat of the American spirit begins to present itself.
I now understand the American Revolution to be an extension of the American spirit the pilgrims first began trying to colonize a new part of the world searching for true purity in the form of freedom.
I look forward to reading the next of Philbrick's historical works!
I just finished Mayflower by Nathaniel Philbrick and give it 4 out of 5 stars.How have I missed out on Nathaniel Philbrick's writing?
I really enjoyed his writing style and he really seems to know his stuff.
Mayflower is of course about the voyage the Pilgrims took in 1620 to come to America from England.
I learned a lot about the voyage and the Pilgrims' founding of Plymouth while listening to this audiobook.
Nor did I know very much about the Pilgrims William Bradford and Miles Standish (among others), or of the Indians Massasoit and Squanto (among others).
Omg. This book should not be disguised as a novel!! It's really a text book- don't be fooled!! I must finish this one by this thanksgiving and impress everyone at the dinner table with my knowledge of the first thanksgivingers hardships and triumphs. I think it's been 2 yrs. I've been trying to finish this one:p
