https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/968827.Where_Late_the_Sweet_Birds_Sang
David Sumner  has a problem: the world as he knows it is about to end. what's a brilliant young man and his equally brilliant family to do? why, bring back members of that extended family, store supplies, circle the wagons, and build a lab which will eventually help the Sumner family to repopulate the earth, of course. sounds like a good plan to me.there's something about the 70s that I just really dig. many things, actually. besides the wonderfully hideous clothes and the wonderfully not-hideo
one of the very 70s things about this novel is its sweet but not saccharine attachment to nature...
Where Late the Sweet Birds Sang is not the sort of novel that will spell things out for you.
she should probably try to change back; she's making her duplicate sisters uneasy and her community deals with unease in fairly drastic ways.
she likes being an individual.and that's another great thing about the 70s, in sci-fi and beyond: that interest in exploring the necessity of both individuality and community.
but of course in the end Wilhelm cherishes individuality and this community is shown to be deeply flawed.
It is the end of humankind as we know it.Or is it?On a field trip to gather information and building materials (a perilous one that a few hardy individuals periodically make – it is literally a matter of life and death for any clone to be separated from the group for too long), Molly, the artist, is touched and permanently changed by nature.
The community where everybody is forced to work in the fields and children belong to the group and not to their parents seems like a parody of Chairman Mao’s China.It is interesting to note that Mark saves the society because he is more in tune with nature than the clones who needs the presence of each other for sustenance and cannot survive alone.
1977 Hugo winner for best novel.We've got some serious competition out here for best dystopia, but what about the old SF classics that decided to do it first, and often better, than all the modern trash out here?Sure, there's a seriously 70's vibe here, man, with all the deep concerns for community versus individuality, but it's not like we've really outgrown the issues.
You can read the novel as a deep condemnation for conformity and group-think and the logical extremes of extroversion and as a reader identify with the introverted outcasts and their iconoclast talents, even if such things are considered, among most, as a euthanizable offence.
However, in this 1977 Hugo and Locus Award winning novel by Kate Wilhelm, she shows humans living beyond their original due date, by way of cloning.
These ethical issues were concerns in the 70's, made apparent by Kate's writings, and perhaps even began far sooner than we know.Whether or not you have a solid opinion on the cloning of humans, reading this book, will broaden your ideas on man's finite existence on earth, for it has mine.UPDATE:I recently learned where Kate Wilhelm got the title of her novel.
En su promoción se habla de La estación del crepúsculo como la mejor novela sobre clones y este tema por sí solo me da un poco lo mismo.
Lo mismo cabe decir del retrato de los personajes alienados del grupo, los protagonistas sobre los que se focaliza el relato y, tristemente, padecen el yugo de una organización cada vez más alejada de sus comienzos.
Obcecados en la eficiencia y en factores objetivos, entre insensibles e incapaces de sentir la más mínima empatía por sus antecesores.
This is social/anthropological/archetypal science fiction at its absolute best, exploring with unclouded eyes the ability of humanity to endure through adaptation, through re-inventing itself as something new as many times as necessary, to discover, re-discover, and explore territory both new and old, and to finally emerge from its chrysalis reborn, yet perhaps even more fully human than ever.I feel Kate Wilhelm has created an absolute classic of speculative literature which is tragically under-exposed.
(In fact, it took me many weeks after reading to be able to fully express my thoughts, as well as to gain enough distance for an even marginally-objective review.) I enthusiastically recommend Where Late the Sweet Birds Sang to all fans of intelligent fiction.
The (very thin) scientific premise is that individuality must be developed at an early age, and if a group of clones grows and develops together, they will fail to develop individuality (and associated traits like creativity, imagination, the ability to fall in love, the possibility of genius, etc).
Only a couple of people see the deadly trap the remnants of humanity are falling into.Not only is there no logical reason that clones would develop the traits that Wilhelm gives them, the book's message about the importance of creativity and individuality seems like a straw man argument.
Uneven pacing, klunky writing, and boring story without even a pseudo-scientific explanation or rationale for cloning leads to hive mind.
And what felt like a rather hamfisted indictment of collectivism versus individualism.
I felt like Wilhelm was saying that collectivism led to zombie people who had no capacity for kindness, imagination or creativity, while individualism was better because its followers were self-reliant, creative, and forward-thinking.
(I wonder if Wilhelm was thinking of “the evils of communism” (imagine Guy Smiley-ish cartoonish figure intoning that) when writing this, as the Cold War was still going on...) I can’t really understand why this story was held so highly.
Wilhelm is well known for her decades of contributions to Orbit (see recent anthology of her work in that magazine in Kate Wilhelm in Orbit, Volume One.) Either it should have been broken into separate books to really give the author time to tell the full story of each part, or she should have given us less of the backstory - a true summary, no characters.
Every book that demotes women to baby factories as a "solution" for our "future society" is never going to win with me.
The narrator is female while most of the points-of-view in the book are male.
Depois de destruida a espécie humana, subsistem apenas os clones humanos.A visão da autora é muito interessante.
Mostra-nos uma civilização formatada, com relações de dependência  em relação aos outros clones, mas uma dependência meramente física, uma dependência tão básica como o respirar.
Os laços de afeto são inexistentes e a promiscuidade sexual é parte do seu quotidiano.Estes clones não dispõem de sentido de orientação que lhes permita andar pelo mundo e são desprovidos de criatividade.É uma visão alternativa mas interessante sobre aquilo que, quem sabe, um dia poderá ser a realidade de um planeta imensamente fustigado pela poluição e destruição provocada pelo Homem.
And if one thinks about it loosely, one may be reminded of a handful of similar-seeming ones, like Aldous Huxley's Brave New World, Lois Lowry's The Giver, or any number of other novels in which the rigid and law-bound community controls and destroys the notion of the creative individual.
Dig a little deeper, and this becomes a novel about the stages humanity will go through, at the edge of the precipice, in order to survive.
J. Cherryh's Cyteen earlier in the summer, and now I feel I have read two great texts on the subject of cloning.
I rarely give out 5 stars, but when a book is this moving and enthralling it deserves it!This book is disaster, science fiction, dystopian - and also an expose of what it means to be human.
There is some disaster that one highly educated family sees coming and tries to hedge their bets with cloning.
There is David who lives through the end of civilization (as he knows it) and helps start a new one (without realizing it) and learns to regret it.
There is Molly of the new civilization who is forced out and ends up being a catalyst for change.
3 1/2*
(The audio version is about 11 minutes shy of 8 hours.) The story covers several "generations" and many decades.I found Wilhelm's prose to be beautiful.
The problems I had with the story were mainly with the SF details.
I also found it difficult to believe that the clones would fail to value individuals who were born the old-fashioned way as something more than clone material once they realized that there were outer limits to the number of generations that could be cloned from one individual.
The woman's part is the shortest of the three and most of the book's characters are male.
I think it would have made more sense to use a male narrator or two narrators.
Considering that, Wilhelm does an excellent job of making you care for the characters as, twice over in quite different societies, we watch people forced to stand back as their youngers take over their place in the community and wonder if things will be better or worse in the new future.
But it is also about the lengths we will go to in order to maintain our own kind, and for the purpose of this book the clones are a totally different type of "own kind" from humanity such as we are out here in the real world as represented by David and later by Mark.
Uma vez que as pessoas que se protegem nos bunkers estão, na sua maioria, inférteis, a solução que encontram passa por clonar os indivíduos com as melhores características, de forma a garantir a continuidade da espécie humana.
O livro melhora consideravelmente quando, na segunda parte, temos o ponto de vista de Molly, uma das clones encarregada de trazer informação na primeira expedição que os clones fazem.
Acabei por gostar do livro, foi melhorando com cada parte, e tem alguns elementos que me fizeram lembrar o 'Admirável Mundo Novo'.
For Valerie, Kriss and Leslie,with loveDescription: The spellbinding story of an isolated post-holocaust community determined to preserve itself, through a perilous experiment in cloning. Sweeping, dramatic, rich with humanity, and rigorous in its science, Where Late the Sweet Birds Sang is widely regarded as a high point of both humanistic & hard SF, winning SF's Hugo Award and Locus Award on its first publication.Opening: What David always hated most about the Sumner family dinners was the way everyone talked about him as if he were not there.The title of the book is a quotation from William Shakespeare's Sonnet 73
WHERE LATE THE SWEET BIRDS SANG was an apocalyptic sci-fi window into the 1970s when the story was first published.
I figured the title to the story had to come from somewhere; it did.
The story made me think of things that I didn't necessarily want to think about.
(Does that make sense?) I could very well see this book adapted into an old 'Twilight Zone' episode on TV.
I think most people will either like it or they won't; I don't see a middle ground.
It was one of those stories that I loved, despised, feared and predicted every sentence.
But now, having finished it, I have to say I didn't find it divisive at all and am left wondering whether the book's harshest critics were even reading the same book.This was great, well written, thought-provoking SF that explores one of the more interesting themes in SF; how important is individuality and how should the needs of the individual be reconciled with the needs of society.Humanity is threatened with extinction due to everyone becoming sterile but one particular group of forward-looking individuals develop cloning technology believing that after a few generations, humanity will regain their fertility.
I'm so lucky to have grown up when the science fiction genre was being invaded by women like Kate Wilhem and Ursula K.
While a few male writers like Theodore Sturgeon could construct believable characters, the women who made it in the field all seemed gifted with psychological insight and the ability to instantiate it.
Furthermore, some of them extended the predicate of the genre to include sciences like ecology, psychology and anthropology in addition to the traditional engineering, chemistry and physics orientations.Growing up during the cold war also made me and many in my generation very sensitive to the problematics of globalism: of geopolitical conflict, of overpopulation, of epidemic disease, of the externalities of technology and of cancerous capitalism--possible disasters highlighted by the threat of a thermonuclear exchange.
3 and 1/2 stars.
To survive an environmental apocalypse, an extended family with money and resources moves onto their farm land and builds a research facility.
They find that cloning is the only means for survival of the human race.
The human clones develop deep psychological connections within their genetic groups, acting like a group consciousness.
Those who want to develop their own individuality are seen as mentally ill and detrimental to the survival of their group.
In this setting, the author asks questions about the importance of the group versus the individual, and what it means to be truly human.
Is survival worth losing your individuality?
It turns out that this book is actually one of the defining books to discuss cloning and the effects of cloning the human population, and I found it fascinating to think about, even though it spans a long period of time.
We see humans becoming ever-more reliant on cloning their crops and their livestock in order to survive the famines and natural disasters, and eventually the human population is shrinking so drastically that unless they clone themselves they will not survive.We follow a family who have invested in cloning and are ahead of many others in working out how to clone humans, and we follow their clones over many generations after the 'real' humans are long dead to see just how 'humanity' will change and be affected by the pool of genes they have at their disposal and the generations they can make to ensure survival in a hostile world.
taking a toll until civilization eats itself and then shits itself out (kinda like how The Hunger Games suggests that the end will come).My main complaint about the dystopian subgenre has been that the setting is typically well done, but that the story usually is dreadful: some variation on individual v.
environment, with survivors usually partaking in some greater or lesser degree of defeat by the end (they blow up the world again in Miller; the monkeys win eventually in Boulle; the road never ends in McCarthy).So, the basic rule--For any X that is a dystopia, the setting is fantastic, but the story sucks.
After a mysterious blight literally wipes out global populations, one economically/socially/intellectually prominent family manages to survive and perpetuate life on their farm by cloning themselves. The exploration of sexuality, individuality, and institutionalism is so deliciously concieved and executed in this book. Better yet, it is beautifully written, which is rare in a sci-fi work of this depth and scope. Wilhelm has given the world a truly relevant and insightful piece of work.
It was nominated for the Nebula Award but lost to Dune.If you're hunting for literary references on cloning, I'd suggest I Am the Other: Literary Negotiations of Human Cloning - don't know if that one is really good, though.The novel isn't good at scientific aspect - wherever you dive into scientific motivations, you'll find large holes: cloning and several other predictions like energy production isn't rooted in science at all.
In the end, I didn't find the predictions and philosophical questions convincing: The group consciousness is introduced without motivation or understanding, and I don't believe that creativity is linked to individuality, but alone the dispute was very worthwhile.It won the Nebula Award in 1976 and the next year's Hugo Award, it is included in several lists as "must-read" SF.
That time of year thou mayst in me beholdWhen yellow leaves, or none, or few, do hangUpon those boughs which shake against the cold,Bare ruined choirs, where late the sweet birds sang.from a sonnet by ShakespeareWilhelm's choice of title for her 'end of the world as we know it' novel conjures up a whistful rememberance of things past.
Wilhelm asks the reader to take a couple of leaps with her, and it is not the idea of cloning that i speak of, but rather the unexplained attributes of the clones.
there is nice character development - she is comfortable writing about emotions as she is cloning.
Kate Wilhelm's book won the year I was born, so I tend to figure it was a very good year.
And on the whole, this is a very good book.
It's chock full of ideas, and raises interesting questions about what subtle things might be lost if we fundamentally changed our ways of interacting with each other.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
3.5 stars. Well-written, well thought out post-apocalyptic science fiction story exploring the nature of individuality and what it means to be human. Worth reading. Winner: Hugo Award for Best Science Fiction novelWinner: Locus Award for Best Science Fiction novelNominee: Nebula Award for Best Science Fiction novel
Well-written and incredibly interesting, this book is filled with a wide array of characters and an eye-opening, thought-provoking plot. It's definitely worth reading and really different.
The nostalgia is evident in the descriptions of the landscape; the eeriness comes from the clones.‘He stared at their smooth young faces; so familiar, living memories every one of them, like walking through his own past, seeing his aged and aging cousins rejuvenated, but rejuvenated with something missing.
Individuality is frowned upon, as can be seen in the quote at the start of this review.The book is split into three parts, and Wilhelm tells the story through three generations.
