https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18377999-gulp
When it comes to literature about eating, science has been a little hard to hear amid the clamor of cuisine. Just as we adorn sex with the fancy gold-leaf filigree of love, so we dress the need for sustenance in the finery of cooking and connoisseurship…Yes, men and women eat meals. But they also ingest nutrients. They grind and sculpt them into a moistened bolus that is delivered via a stadium wave of sequential contractions, into a self-kneading sack of hydrochloric acid and then dumped into
And if you were wondering if this little excursion included the risk of being devoured by large living creatures, Roach can fill you in on the odds of surviving inside a leviathan’s stomach.From Heidelblog.netThere are plenty more sights to be seen on this journey, subjects like ways of eating oneself to death, the explosive danger of intestinal gas,(“I know a case, this was fifteen years ago, where the man ate a huge meal and then took an inordinate amount of Alka-Seltzer.” [Dyspepsia expert Mike] Jones made an exploding sound into the telephone.
And the chapter on feeding Spot and Fluffy, while interesting, seemed a bit of a digression from the main journey.That said, reading Mary Roach is akin to the pure joy one experiences from things like Ripley’s Believe It or Not, with the benefit of knowing that there is no smoke and mirror involvement.
I'm left with the feeling that lies somewhere between TMI, an author's perverse, small-boy like joy in slightly shocking the adults by talking about farts and turds, and actually being interested in the transformation from a Michelin chef plate of food into, moments later, a disgusting saliva-covered bolus no one even wants to look at.
Just trivia I picked up along the way.If you prefer to think that all that goes on beneath your skin should remain shrouded in a little mystery and want that aforementioned Michelin chef plate of food to remain in your mind as an artfully-decorated dish of delicate flavours, then don't read the book.
This is a journey of a different kind. Sort of like an Eat, Pray, Love for the digestively curious. So I guess that would make it Belch, Gurgle, Fart?
This is a book not to devour, but to take in small bites, slowly savoring and digesting every funny phrase and interesting fact.This is only the first reviewer to use lots of bad puns.
Be afraid.
Be very afraid...Update: I simply adored this book and found it to be very tasty--OK, so maybe parts were nausea inducing but for the most part it was fascinating stuff.
And, please note my prediction that poop transplants are going to be the next big thing.
Now aren't you glad you read this?Oh, and one more: This book is bitingly funny in places.
The footnotes are worth the price of the book.
Her inquisitive mind doesn't always follow a linear path & the side tracks are illuminating.--------------"While a seaman might survive the suction and swallow, his arrival in a sperm whale's stomach would seem to present a new set of problems."*[footnote]*I challenge you to find a more innocuous sentence containing the words sperm, suction, swallow, and any homophone of seaman.
Really interesting chapters devoted to comparing what it can digest & how fast it moves food along, too.The small intestine gathers most of good stuff out of what we swallow and the colon gets a little more plus the water, but it does some important digestion of its own.
Being born with a gut disease of my own - Hirschsprung’s Disease - still a daily challenge today - I wasn’t so sure I’d call reading *GULP* an adventure when looking at the Alimentary Canal.....(our digestive tract from our mouth to our anus).
Smells, tastes, food preferences, poop, the ins and outs of our intestinal track - Mary Roach was ALIVE - CONFIDENT - and totally in her element living - breathing - GULP-LADY...our spokeswoman on the digestive tract.
Absolutely a close *TIE* for my favorite ( important) book written by Mary - with *STIFF*.....The Human Life of Human CadaversNote of caution: not to be read while eating a meal.
They're constant, unrelenting, (somehwhat geeky humor) and are a distraction from otherwise fascinating material.Her research is impressive and I appreciate her trying to make it not dry and clinical, but she goes overboard.
She has a rambling style and includes lots of irrelevant details, along with puns, apologies for the puns, and so many little wink-wink, nudge-nudge passages that it verges on dumbing down.
A little of that goes a long way, however.
I wouldn't care for dry medical journal reporting either, but it does a disservice to push it quite this far in the clownish direction.
Beware of reading this review if farts and bodily functions gross you out.More like 2.5 starsMary Roach may have that mindset too.
So far I've read books by her detailing what happens with dead bodies and more than you ever want to know about your Alimentary canal.I love having random facts in my head.
We tackle our bodies food from intake to outake in this book with several detours into what happens along that route.
Ms. Roach also enters into our prison system to learn how far your rectum can stretch.
The gases our bodies make could in fact blow up something in large enough quantities.
If your body features a digestive tract, consider this book a must-read.However, here are some caveats: 1) I strongly advise you not to read this book within 1 hour before or 2 hours after eating.2) I strongly advise you not to read this book in any room used for cooking or eating (such as your kitchen or dining room).
Instead—even though this might not be acceptable by some etiquette books—I strongly advise you to keep this book in the bathroom and read it while sitting on the john.
And last but not least, I am now happy to announce that my digestive tract is probably the best part of my body.For a more profound and also illustrated take of this book, please read Will Byrnes review.
Now Get Over It!This is the truly magical, mystical and messy journey of how food goes in one end and out the other.Keeping in mind that in her last book, Packing for Mars: The Curious Science of Life in the Void, Roach devoted an entire chapter to pooping in space, so be prepared for loads of unpleasant, yet interesting facts you could have happily gone your entire life without knowing.
(Yes, there is such a thing, and after Roach's explanation...it sounds like a perfectly logical and necessary procedure.)If you can keep your squeamishness in check, you'll find that this is a hilarious, surprising, occasionally disgusting, and always amazing look at what goes on inside us all.
After scanning all the usual places in the store, I finally asked an associate to direct me to the new book, only to have her type and study her screen, then point vaguely into a back corner of the store and dismiss me.
Minutes later, I was back at the now-empty workstation, so I peered at her screen and saw that indeed there were supposed to be five copies of this invisible book somewhere in the store.
At long last a triumphant employee emerged from the back room with my beloved new book in hand!
Did you know that the human infant enters the world without information on what is edible and what is not, and until they are around the age of two, you can get them to eat almost anything?
Or that saliva could be used to pretreat food stains because of the enzymes it contains (the same enzymes are artificially manufactured for laundry detergents)?
Or that one of the reasons we like crunchy foods might be because we have a destructive nature and derive pleasure from destroying things?Mary Roach is a popular science writer, and her books are accessible and hilarious.
An interesting and informative book that had me laughing out loud as I read.
You may be thinking, Wow, that Mary Roach has her head up her ass. To which I say: Only briefly, and with the utmost respect. Oh golly gee, Mary Roach is fun! I read Stiff: The Curious Lives of Human Cadavers just yesterday, (or as Goodreads tells me, the summer of 2014. But that's basically yesterday.) And I really enjoyed it. 'Twas a fantastic mix of fun and science. Like Bill Nye meets Bill Schutt. Hell, throw in some Bill Murray too, why not!?Bills bills everywhere!Gulp was just what I want
Oh golly gee, Mary Roach is fun!
Did you know humans like eating crunchy foods because we instinctively enjoy destroying things with our mouths?
Did you know it's not only disgusting when rabbits eat their own poo, it's also nutritious?
Did you know penguins can shut down their digestion by turning their stomachs into temporary refrigerators, saving their fishy leftovers for their kiddos?
Did you know a group of penguins is called a waddle?You won't learn that last one from Gulp, but aren't you glad you know it?Second - it was funny!
Were there some second grade poo jokes?
If you are a fact-loving nerd looking for an excuse to talk about poop more often, then Gulp: Adventures on the Alimentary Canal by Mary Roach is the book for you!
I enjoyed this book because my husband and I listened to the audio version during our holiday travels, and we found ourselves laughing, gasping, and occasionally having to turn it off while we were eating (which is kind of ironic, no?).
Another reason I enjoyed this book was because my husband and I could listen to it together: for the first time ever, he had asked me to turn on an audiobook when we got in the car!
Have you ever wondered: If you can die from trying to defecate too forcefully?Why do animals eat their own poop?Could the Jonah biblical story have scientific plausibility?Why doesn't your stomach eat itself until there is nothing left?What makes farts smell so disgusting?What is the purpose of saliva and why do babies make so much?How to prisoners smuggle so much junk up their butts?I loved every second of finding out the answer to these questions and about 1,000 more that I didn't even know I had.
I listened to this book in about a weeks time and felt a little more informed each day.
Warning: Possible side effects of reading this book include forcing your loved ones (aka the husband, in my case) to listen to about a bajillion facts about pooping, burps, farts, and gas.
“The slang for the rectum is ‘prison wallet.’” Interesting, but gross, with a good dose of potty humor. I now know more about Elvis’s “super colon” than necessary.
She's a great author and a very entertaining one.If you did read my status updates, you can see that at times this book can get pretty disgusting.
While Mary Roach approaches everything with a kind of scientific glee, seeing everything with a "that's so cool, and disgusting, but in an awesome fascinating way" glow that is very effective and friendly most of the time can leave me cold when she's talking about people's lives.Oh, and ditto on the animals.
It still gets a 5 from me.P.S. And you might not want to read this book while you're eating.
Not as good as Stiff: The Curious Lives of Human Cadavers, nor as informative.
It focuses a bit too much on entertaining the reader and less on informing.
It wouldn’t necessarily be a bad thing but I don’t really find jokes about feces and the holes it can come out of that amusing.
There were also some parts, by the end of the book in which I could feel the author trying to gross me out despite her saying at the start of this book that she will treat this subject with respect and not try to disgust the reader.
However, that's not to say I didn't learn anything; at least 50% of the tales herein were news to me!She starts this book with the assertion she wants readers to say, “I thought this would be gross but it’s really interesting.”I didn’t think it was going to be gross.
I remember doing that as a kid, though, because I wanted to know if my spit tasted like something.
I think this is probably the reason but she says nothing has been proven one way or another and that, more than likely, a warm kitten snoring on your stomach is relaxing and you can finally stop clenching so hard and let the poop flow.THE END.No, seriously, though, I had so much fun with this book.
Roach again writes about a somewhat squeamish, gross-ish, yucky topic that you didn't know you were interested in until she made you realize the subject matter is interesting.
Examples: 1) Did you know that most laundry detergents contain at least 3 digestive enzymes found in your saliva, to help break down food and grease stains on your clothes?
Roach even goes as far as asking the experts why we can't just rub our saliva on stains to help get them out?
3) Perhaps the most intriguing (yet disgusting) thing Roach researches is the the study of fecal transplants to help those with diseases such as Crohn's and diverticulitis.
It’s astonishing, really, those primitive forms of waterborne life, and it emphasizes an interesting thing about animal anatomy, that we aren’t a solid, discrete, bounded organism: the environment moves through us as much as it moves around us.
We like to think of “inside” and “outside” our bodies when in fact, it’s much more complicated.
Perhaps that is why there are so many taboos surrounding what we eat, how we eat, vomiting, farting, defecation and such–all those different ways we interact with our environment.
For those of ye who are new to me log, a word: though this log’s focus is on sci-fi, fantasy, and young adult, this Captain does have broader reading tastes.
Historical facts about enemas, Elvis, pet food, fecal matter, and saliva (seriously saliva is awesome) abound.
I have always loved this author’s work ever since I read her book about cadavers called stiff.
I haven’t read her Mars one yet or the one about the science of war but they are on the list.
If ye haven’t read her work I suggest ye give it a go.
When I read Packing for Mars two years ago, I was very vocal about how my favorite chapter was her detailed exploration of pooping in outer space*, so it was with much excitement that I realized her next book, Gulp (subtitled Adventures on the Alimentary Canal) was about the science of eating, digesting, and yes, excreting.
Also also: poop transplants are a real thing.Actually, I want to talk about that poop transplant thing some more because I think it's the perfect example of what Mary Roach is all about.
I'm a big fan of Mary Roach's books, and that said, this is her best.
To read Roach approach such familiar and usually off limits subject matter with her characteristic wit and charm was incredibly refreshing.
Whether it's reading one of her many amazingly interesting and clever footnotes, or just chuckling at Roach's INCREDIBLE luck at continuously finding doctors and specialists whose last names seem to DESTINE them for work in digestion, this book is a joy to read at every turn.Finally, just a short encomium for Roach.
Even her more conventional works flirt with taboo, and in Gulp she embraces disgust whole-heartedly, by treating readers with iron stomachs to a discussion of all things digestive.
Instead, it's a history of the odder means scientists through the centuries have fashioned to study it, though some of the questions themselves are startling enough (how many cellphones can you pack into a rectum?) Its intent is more entertaining than educational, but readers will glean an understanding of how our body works regardless, and perhaps learn more than they wished they knew.
Entertaining science, wish she had been my chemistry teacher in High School instead of the monosyllabic Mr. Worth, who I unfortunately had. Some of this is boring for sure, but some is just fascinating, some is oh so gross, but some is interesting and humorous to boot. Did you know they actually have a poop website? Who knew. There is also a section in this book about pet food tasters for all the pet lovers out there. Amusing informative and gross how can one lose? ARC from publisher.
In between, I marveled at the ability (albeit rare) of some humans to eat themselves to death and enjoyed the scientific dissection of the claims of those who assert Jonah-like survival of whale (or python or frog) swallowing.I must confess, however, that this book revealed to me that I am extraordinarily squeamish when it comes to discussions of certain aspects of the digestive system, in particular, stomach acid.
Given how many bodily taboos this book dives merrily into, I would not recommend the reading-while-eating strategy if you tend towards the squeamish yourself.
Gulp is Roach's 5th major non-fiction book and I think that colors a lot of its character.
That makes it perfect for background audio on my daily commute, and I'll continue to seek out her other books.The reader gets mixed grades*.
(note to narrators of nonfiction - every person quoted doesn't need to be given a unique voice, especially not a strange one that likely has no connection to the voice of the real person quoted.)*Emily Woo Zeller won an "AudioFile Earphones Award" for Gulp.
Gulp: Adventures On the Alimentary Canal (audio) by Mary Roachreader: Emily Woo Zellerpublished: 2013format: 8:21 digital audio acquired: library listened: Nov 7-16rating: 3½
There were a few things that turned my stomach (only a handful of pages total), but for the most part I was mesmerized by all I was learning about the Digestive Tract.
This book starts with our sense of smell and the mouth and follows the digestive tract all the way through elimination.
One of my favorite footnotes was in reference to asking an ad man how he got people to be in an advertising photo for an anti-gas pill.
He laughed and said they didn't - they had to use stock photos because no one wants to be in those types of ads.
Her early books "Bonk" and "Spook" were a little flat and derivattive, but ever since then she has delivered.Yes, she chooses deliberately risque subjects and yes there is always a chapter on farts, but damn she can make things interesting.
You do not have to be a scientist to enjoy them, and you do not need to be an 8-year-old boy either.
If you are a bit squemish and delicate about bodily functions, read this, get over yourself and enjoy the wonderful piece of biology that you occupy.
So everyone, get out there and read some Mary Roach.
You'll laugh, learn, be amazed and there'll be plenty of WTFs. May we have many more wonderful Mary Roach adventures!
