https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/242936.The_Mis_Education_of_the_Negro
As I contemplate the state of today’s black adolescents, rereading this piece of literature provided a new perspective on the present condition of African-Americans.
This book is more than a piece of literary history; it is the lens with which we should use to reevaluate our education, our family and our commitment to building a helping system.What I loved most about this book is how it illustrates the power of education and knowledge.
Lead the Negro to detest the man of African blood--to hate himself.”A quote that I try to live by.
It is amazing that after almost 75 years this book remains at the forefront of forward thinking.
More than just a book, it is a manual; blue print rather for the uplifting and enlightening of a people without the common stowaway of blaming “the-man” as the father, author, creator, and personified of every woe upon the African American people.
More amazing yet is that after 75 years the content and thermos of the book remain sound and accurate.
The years may have passed but the spirit in which this book was written; the solutions that it gives; and the unequivocal wisdom that lies with in has not.
A great historical document and extremely important to those in education who are concerned with racial injustice. A powerful read--unfortunately, so many of his observations regarding white hegemony and the systematic subjugation of African Americans remain true today. Woodson is clear is his critique and makes so many excellent points that I was highlighting a sentence almost every other page. I highly recommend this book for anyone interested in human rights, social justice, racial equality and education.
This is the kind of book you will need to read and hear over and over again to grasp all that is being said.
Every word is purposeful and every concept perfectly complex and all wrapped up in a challenging bow for the educated African American female (especially).
The insight in this book dismantles all that I thought education would be at an HBCU.
An EPIC read for African American community organizers and those still stuck in the American system so much so that they lose grasp of just who they are and what they should be fighting for.
I read The Mis-Education of the Negro (1933) upon the recommendation of Yamini. Thank you so much, girl, for never letting me down. Why should the Negro wait for some one from without to urge him to self-assertion when he sees himself robbed by his employer, defrauded by his merchant, and hushed up by goverment agents of injustice? Why wait for a spur to action when he finds his manhood insulted, his woman outraged, and his fellowmen lynched for amusement?  Carter Woodson produced a constructive
Woodson believed that this form of miseducation, the willful withdrawal of facts and the distortion of history, led to a brain-washed acceptance of the inferior role assigned to black people by the oppressor.
The so-called modern education, with all its defects, however, does others so much more good than it does the Negro, because it has been worked out in conformity to the needs of those who have enslaved and oppressed weaker peoples.
I haven't encountered many authors of his period who were so unapologetic about autonomous, self-thinking black individuals who were in no need of the white man's aid to rise above themselves.
Excellent book! Every African American needs to read this book in order to understand how we've been so brainwashed to hate ourselves.
Through his work as a historian, Woodson uses an incisive reading of the history of Negro education from the Reconstruction period forward to bolster the argument that it has been improperly administered by others to the detriment of black people.
In summation, Woodson offers us one of the many early attempts at developing a black social theory which draws upon the most valuable assets our community while exhorting us to take serious measures in addressing its liabilities.His legacy of Negro History Week which later evolves into Black History Month is not born of a desire to give either ourselves or America a concession that equality has been achieved nor are we to be cavalier in our observance of this milestone.
I want to read this book so badly. I have read a couple of excerpt from the book, but I have not read the whole thing yet. When I get this book I will tell you all about it!
In it, Woodson outlines what he sees as the repercussions of an ineffective Negro educational system.
As a modern reader, I appreciated chapters XVII and the appendix the most.
In chapter XVII, Woodson says that it doesn’t make sense for Blacks to simple give their vote to one political party.
In the appendix, Woodson examines the question of what the race should be called.
Although the topics Woodson covers in chapters VII and the appendix aren’t new, I think he offers an opinion that isn’t often articulated as eloquently and is relevant to a modern discussion.
To Woodson's credit, I'm sure that has more to do with the impact this book has had on black culture and education since it's publication.
Many black people and institutions have taken Woodson's admonishments to heart and made positive changes.
There are some areas pointed out in this book that still need serious work but even in those areas, I thought, "I already knew that." Even then, it's good to be reminded.
I would recommend this book but don't expect for your world to be rocked by new revelations.
Expect more of a reminder of how far we've come and how far we have to go.
It is unfortunate that this classic of African-American thought is so rarely read and referenced. While the social situation in which Woodson lived and worked has, clearly, changed a great deal, many of his observations remain relevant as more than matters of mere historical interest. While I do not always agree with his conclusions, there is no doubt that his arguments are based a great deal of research and experience and deserve to be heard. I recommend this book to anyone interested in African-American studies and/or the history of education in the United States.
This was an excellent analysis of the state of black American culture. It was inspiring, as well as a saddening truth. Despite being written in 1930 it reflects current trends. I was disturb to find that as a race African Americans have not made significant gains since the time of Mr. Woodson. Hopefully, his warnings, suggestions, and ideas will be revisited by the new generation to make a positive change.
There was a persistent bias against leadership throughout the book, generally asserting that many "leaders" in the communities were out for personal rather communal gains.Lastly, the appendix was a bit nutty, a hodgepodge discussion of nomenclature for blacks, negroes, colored, etc., fashion advice, and prognostications on the future of color palette selections for the race...so that was sort of interesting ending!
The Negro trained in the advanced phases of literature, philosophy, and politics has been unable to develop far in using his knowledge because of having to function in the lower spheres of the social order." (Ch. 2 - How We Missed the Mark).The apathy of the highly educated Negro:"...the highly educated Negro often grows sour..." (Ch. 1 -The Seat of the Trouble) with many siding with segregationists on the best solution for the Negro race.Entrepreneurship:Why Negroes will not patronize black owned businesses & the need for the Negro in professions other than religious ministry are some of the topics Wooden expounds upon.
Liber is latin for free; the education available to every free man.
It is also the education to free your mind.
While Woodson studied the classics at Harvard, his peer had a vocational education in wool and has multiplied earning power.Woodson grapples with this debate and encourages his fellow Black aristocrats and intellectuals to do all they can to uplift his race."The problem of holding the Negro down, therefore, is easily solved.
You do not need to send him to the back door.
In fact, if there is no back door, he will cut one for his special benefit.
His education makes it necessary"
I felt a great deal of conflict coming from Woodson as I read this book.
He seems to be a great observer of the Negro people.
As an example, I was intrigued by his discussion of an educated and uneducated minister.
The educated minister understands (and can read) the established teachings, but the uneducated minister understands the people.
I feel as though the constant comparison was written of Group A (uneducated) and Group B (educated).
I did not get a sense of what happened as the very person he wrote about in Group A transitioned to become a member of Group B.
This is a must read for all American Born Africans. It will remind you that the education that you've received, whether from Harvard or the streets, it is inadequate for true liberation. We must go beyond what has been provided and begin to be the providers. The truth shall set you free
Reading it in my youth and reading it in my - well, non youth - were definitely different experiences.
Still full of truth, but thankfully some of it has become dated or I disagreed with the premise of certain points based on my own life experience.
Speaking of life experience, the conclusions the author makes based on his personal encounters are often valid but limited in their own way.
I can appreciate this work on a different level and be content with departing from Woodson's thinking/assumptions on certain points.
This book is relevant, even into today's time. Although it was written in the early 1900s, the analysis can be applied to today's situations. I read this book at the beginning of each new school year.
2]"When a Negro has finished his education in our schools, then, he has been equipped to begin the life of an Americanized or Europeanized white man, but before he steps from the threshold of his alma mater he is told by his teachers that he must go back to his own people from home he has been a estranged by a vision of ideals which in his disillusionment he will realize that he cannot attain." [pg.
The large majority of this class, then, must go through life denouncing white people because they are trying to run away from the blacks and decrying the blacks because they are not white."Regardless of how you feel about this quote, this is the sad reality that many Blacks face.
This book takes about the inequality of America and how we are still faced with the dilemma on whether to educate or remain ignorant.
It Is a lot like the quote that says: "If you want to hide someone from a black man, just put it in a book." This was very hard book to read, but it was very provocative and engrossing, I def will recommend it.
Prolific Mind one of the Greatest
Although he had never seen a clock, watches being the only timepieces in the vicinity, he made in 1770 the first clock manufactured in the United States"In summary, i achieved my aim for reading Carter Woodson's thesis, and i feel its important for anyone that wants to know about the history and foundation of how the slaves were treated before and during the civil war, and how they came to liberate themselves with the power of Education.My next book in this subject will be W.E.B Dubois's "souls of a black folk".
This review is long overdue. I have been reading this book on a regular basis for years. I hold great appreciation for the work Mr. Woodson put into this text. I will say that one must truly understand the following aspects before they can fully engage with the text and feel the impact of the analysis that lies within the text: 1) Mr. Woodson is analyzing the MIS-education of “the negro” and not UN-education. It is urgent that one understands this before they dive in2) Mr. Woodson was a pivotal
We can agree that if elevating truly means helping people help themselves, education continues to fail us.I admire the fact that Mr. Woodson was so passionate about the future and development of the black community that he dedicated pretty much his whole life to analyzing it and putting his blood sweat and tears into it.
This book is one that is worth owning, despite the 1933 publication date. Much and sadly like Dr. King's 1967 book Where Do We Go from Here: Chaos or Community?, this book is also still very relevant, and sadly, very on point with our current reality. The author points out the need for critical thinking, self-education combined with a willingness to dig further than the surface or secondary sources, and to put community, and humanity, above personal interests. These needs remain.#PublicDomainInfrastructureShiraDestMarch 7th, 12018 HE
Woodson separates the book by chapters highlighting certain deficienties the black race has grown accustom to and perpetuates.
I believe this book is a good read for people who like to analyze arguments to understand the perspective of the other.
However, some content in this book can be misinterpreted due to lack of connection and unexplained categories Woodson used to facilitate his argument.
I would recommend this book to scholars looking to enhance their sociological studies and people looking to broaden their affinity for race relations, not to the general "educated" individual.
I believe the general "educated" individual may mistake the book for accounts not meant by the author.
I am rating this book based on its relevance today, which is amazing considering it was written in 1933.
One would expect that very little of Woodson's writing on race relations would still be useful 80 years later, but it is amazingly inspiring and thought-provoking to read.
His clear explanations of the failure of our educational system made me want to go out and run for the Board of Education, and write a new history textbook.
I took away a star because about 20% of what he describes isn't at all relevant anymore, and because he often digresses from the main topic of education, but overall it is one of the most worthwhile weekends I have spent reading - and that's saying a lot!
The book in itself is a relic you can tell by the name, but as I lay in my bed last night I realized the negro (African American) is frozen in a time warp. Here it is 2014, and a book written in 1933 is as relevant now as it's was back then. lol. A lot of the problems addressed in this book I myself have chewed on a few times. 2014 and Blacks, Negros, african Ameri... What ever we call ourselves still don't buy from one another. Sad. Good book all the same.
I just finished readingThe Mis-Education of the Negro and it is a truly great book, a good read for people of all races to better understand the history of and progress of African Americans in this country.
While this book was not a page-turner for me and took a lot of concentration and re-reading, I feel it is a must-read for all educators. There are so many gems of wisdom that I know I will keep in mind for the rest of my career. I will have to re-read and reflect on my practice with Woodson's philosophies always. Written in the 1930's, this book is so relevant today.
