https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/74001.The_Odyssey
It seems sacrilegious to say this, but Kazantzakis' modern sequel to The Odyssey is superior to Homer's in every way, at least from the perspective of the modern mind.
This is one of the greatest accomplishments of world literature, and it is a tragedy that it is not better known; most people have heard of Kazantzakis' Zorba The Greek but few people are familiar with this, his masterpiece.Kazantzakis lops off the last two sections of Homer's Odyssey and grafts onto it his own modern sequel.
But it also tackles the greatest of modern questions: the spirit's quest for independence and freedom.
One of the last book-length epic poems written, this is a neglected masterpiece. Albert Camus beat Kazantzakis for the Nobel Prize in 1957 or so by one vote. The Nobel Committee's failure to give Kazanzakis a Nobel is a great injustice to a writer whose body of work far exceeds Hemingway's for example, who did receive it.
One of my favorite books. After reading it my eyes saw the world differently, and my language changed.
Books 3 and 4 (03/14)Odysseus turns his back on Ithaca, on his family and on his people.
As I’m reading this portion of the book, I’m feeling an ominous Nietzschean/fascist undertone.
Menelaus is presented as a fat, weak, corrupt king, doomed by the strong blond-haired race descending on this kingdom with the new iron weapons.
At that time, there was a keen desire for a strong ruler to take charge and sweep away the decadence and deadwood of society.
I can only grit my teeth.Books 5 and 6 (10/14)In these books, Odysseus, Helen and crew survive a storm and dock at Crete.
Only a Greek with the scope and wisdom of Kazantzakis could pull off a proper sequel to Homer. Elpenor, where are you?
correcting your notes--Kimon Friar was the translator, not the photographer--AND, the translation itself is a work of art. Friar never repeats a descriptive word in all the thirty three thousand lines of the story, which begins where Homer left off.Kazantzakis was exiled from Greece for writing this book in modern Greek!the book reminds me of Tennyson's Ulysses:"...old age hath yet his honor and his toil,death closes all, yet something ere the end,some work of noble note may yet be donenot unbecoming men who strove with gods...""...for my purpose holds to sail beyond the sunset.."
This book is, perhaps, the most flagrantly "mid-century modern" thing I've ever read. It's a massive, "significant", he-man undertaking. And some of it is pretty good. Even in translation, the poetry can be very good indeed. But it's also repetitive. The same rehash of Nietzsche appears over and over and over again. Further, Kazantzakis's Odysseus, to my mind, has very little in common with his many portrayals over the millennia and he resembles nothing so much as Goethe's Faust (who is about as unpleasant a character as classic literature provides outside of actual villains).
Picking up where Homer left us in the saga of Odysseus, Kazantzakis rejuvenates the tale through a modern perspective, constructing a massively ambitious set of adventures to carry us back into this enchanted world. He touches on just about everything philosophically and spiritually, and the prose is bursting with lush descriptions and an overall joie de vivre. One of the most beautiful, under-appreciated books. An epic masterpiece.
One of the most ambitious undertakings in the history of literature -- perhaps too ambitious -- but an impressive accomplishment. Kazantzakis distills his own personal and philosophical endeavors into another epic journey for Homer's Odysseus, taking him from his return to Ithaca across the Mediterranean and through Africa to the great southern sea where he, as a man freed from all hope and fear, confronts the abyss awaiting us all.
Epic indeed. This tome picks up right where Homer left off. Kazantzakis takes his borrowed protagonist on new adventures with fresh companions and challenges. As a translated poem, some of the rhythm and meter probably get distorted, but it still mirrors its predecessor in ambition and breadth.
tác phẩm vĩ đại nhất của Kazantzakis viết về Odyssey thời "hậu hiện đại", không còn lênh đênh trên Egée nữa mà là hành trình vào tâm linh/tư tưởng. vô vàn hình ảnh thần thoại đẹp đẽ được tác giả tô vẽ một cách tráng lệ, ngoài ra còn cảnh tác giả đi tìm đức tin lảng vảng lúc gần lúc xa, ảo giác của cả một thời đại được khắc họa cực kỳ sâu sắc và đẹp đẽ.
I've read parts of this book at two different times in my life. I do want to read the whole thing through, I'm pretty sure it would be worth it.
Epic!
I got around 20 pages in – an interesting idea, certainly; a continuation of Odysseus's story with a different ending (post bloodbath at Ithaca).
Told in an epic poem form, something I'm a little surprised doesn't really exist at all anymore (you'd think at least a few more people would've done it by now).but I realized, with summer winding down – now is not the time I want to be starting on a 750+ pg book.
I just don't have it in me (she says as she picks up GEB) – well, at least, not about this.
Even though it's an interesting concept, seems well written, and I'd certainly hope to go back to it someday.
---on pause in book five---I didn't know about this. His Christ Recrucified was a big thing for me, to a lesser extent Freedom or Death.
A massive epic poem. I read it in 1969 and thoroughly enjoyed it. One of the things I remember is Odysseus talking about how we create gods in our own image. Well worth the invested time. I think I'll read it again now.
Of course not a book to read sequentially.... but an excellent piece of art, a huge impressive stone in the heart of Greek contemporary poetry and of course a beauty in terms of all the new words created and used by great Kazantzakis.
Every page I pause in amazement. I'm completely wonder-struck by the immensity of Kazantzakis' soul and his compulsive need to have every line writhe and glow with it. I can't say more about it without babbling like an excited child.
I took this trip with me on my voyage to Turkey and Greece. The verse is achingly beautiful and I wish I'd been able to get more than a hundred pages into it.
Epic poetry makes good just-before-night-night reading
Carries ahead the old epic and in fact outstrips it - but the old fox Odysseus deserves it and is an apt observer to describe our age.... Mr Kazantzakis was no less a inspired creator of epics
Neglected. Amazing.
Woooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooow!
