https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1883838.The_Heroin_Diaries
A dark year in the life of Nikki Sixx Although a member of other bands Nikki Sixx is best known as co-founder, bassist, and primary songwriter for the band Mötley Crüe.A few years ago I was on a memoir kick and I ended up reading a few written by some current and former rock stars.
I thought it was an interesting read with an accurate description of addiction (Although of course it is a rock star version).
Nikki's journal entries from Christmas 1986 to Christmas 1987, when his drug use was apparently at it's highest.
"Here's to the crazy ones. The misfits. The rebels. The troublemakers. The round heads in the square holes. The ones who see things differently..."  To say that Nikki Sixx was a wild man would be an understatement. Sixx was actually declared legally dead from a drug overdose before he was eventually revived. He tried to put his own mother in jail. He tried to hitchhike naked, drunk, and with a dislocated shoulder. Married a Playboy centerfold and realized he'd once slept with her mother. Need I
To say that Nikki Sixx was a wild man would be an understatement.
Sixx was actually declared legally dead from a drug overdose before he was eventually revived.
He tried to put his own mother in jail.
Nikki Sixx took the term rockstar to a new level.
He had money, women, fame, and he was in one of the most successful bands of the '80s.
Yet drugs were destroying his life.
But they were also the most dangerous band around that time.
Alice Cooper said :  'I never thought Nikki Sixx would live beyond the third Mötley Crüe album.
I read in the Allmusic review of this album that Motley Crue fans would not like it.
Then I wondered -- why, if I liked this, was I not a Motley Crue fan?
So I looked through the Motley Crue discography and I found that I liked and remembered a bunch of their songs.
Which is odd, because I thought I was supposed to stop liking metal when I got old.Recommnded songs: 'Life is Beautiful', 'Van Nuys', 'Courtesy Call'Recommended for: hard rock or metal fans in general, Motley Crue fans, Queensryche fanssorry this turned into an album review, but they were released as companions :)
When you haven’t dealt with your childhood pain, struggle with depression and a crushing loneliness and life on the road seems endless and empty and you self-medicate with sex and heroin, well, things quickly turn into a nightmare.
In this diary, he details his self-destruction, his depression, his ego and bad attitude and the horrible, reckless things he does when he’s on drugs (when he can remember!).
After each diary entry there are comments from his current day self and/or others who were involved with him at the time, song lyrics, etc.
If your glasses prescription isn’t up to snuff, you might want to make a visit to the eye doc before tackling the print version of this book.
I only give this 2 stars for having funny little details about Vanity and GnR.
This is not only a study in decadence but also a study in misogyny and white privilege.
Women = Trouble didn't you know?I feel like ranting....apparently you get to be a self-indulgent prick if your father abandoned you and your mother left you with a grandmother/grandfather that adored you.
Your life is so freaking hard....Really I don't know how you resisted a needle at infancy.
At anyrate, this is so white boy ART scene I could vomit....It is Dudley if he got famous.
I don't know what it is about Motley Crue, but they're absolutely fascinating to read about.
Bassist/founder/main songwriter Nikki Sixx dug up these old diaries that cover almost every day of his life in 1987.
When the band wasn't touring, Sixx was near death in his bedroom closet taking heroin, cocaine and other drugs nonstop.
After most entries are current anecdotes by many people in Sixx's life at the time: band members and managers, girlfriends, family etc.
It's amazing Sixx is still alive after his many brushes with death.
His story makes drug addiction seem that much more unappealing.
And as far as Nikki's childhood....pssh, cracker don't know dysfunctional.
Know who had a messed up childhood?
I refuse to believe Nikki kept an accurate, well-documented diary during his relevant years.3.
Writing a memoir (read: narrating your shoddy flashbacks to a moderately talented ghost writer) to "wake up others to the lifestyle and hopefully deter them from following in your footsteps" does not equate with "I need to stay relevant so my dealer will finally start returning my calls".
The absurd coloring of the pages made me ill, rather than make my inner "glam rocker" (an oxymoron, by the way) fist pump in solidarity.
Reading this diary now I know why.He just captured my heart by saying he was listening to the Thompson Twins and reading a Roald Dahl book.
I realize he suffered from abandonment issues sand admits to clinical depression, but his actions seem so much like self-medicating ADHD and bipolar.
Of course, the bipolar could have completely been drug induced.
I laughed until I coughed.Sixx truly affected me with his writings.
I didn't know who to believe-her or his grandfather, Tom. I lean toward Tom. Addiction is a serious illness.
I'm glad Nikki got help.
I'm glad I have you to talk to, to write this down...I tried to keep it all together, but then I gave in to the madness and became one with my insanity...'Dealing with depression and a troubling childhood on top of his addictions, The Heroin Diaries is a brutal and raw recollection of life in a downward spiral but was nothing less than fascinating.
i would like to say to myself, If you're in a hole, put down the shovel, but I can't.'I burned through it in record time; I was fascinated, appalled, and beyond shocked with each page.
More like "i snorted/shot up all my money I made from my shitty glam band and the GFC is hit me hard and no one buys my out dated music anymore so I really need this money and I know that hardcore fans are fanatic enough to buy and believe this shit" I don't believe for a second that he looks back at his 'wild' days with "man what was I thinking, I really needed help, I was so lost' He thinks they were totally awesome and he spends the book glorifying and almost bragging about his 'addiction' and behaviour.
A better title would have been a "Year in the Life of a self-absorbed, drug-addled, whining rockstar." The book isn't awful.
Nikki Sixx has some decent writing chops, but so much of the book is taken up with the same defeatist, whining, self-hatred that by the fifth or sixth month of it, you find yourself skipping over the boring entries.
One of the book's saving graces is its format - the addition of "after the fact" notes from a variety of people makes the stories so much more interesting.
This book is a compilation of Nikki Sixx's diary entries from 1986/1987 along with comments by those who knew him then.
Let me say, I give Nikki Sixx a lot of credit for doing this as well as those who commented in the book.
I attended one of the Philadelphia concerts he mentions in the book) would remember this year and how the media portrayed Nikki and the rest of the Crue.
Obviously, I am a big fan, particularly of Nikki's songwriting from the beginning to present so I've anxiously waited for the release of this book for several years.
Wow. I found myself feeling lost and alone as I read the pages of this journal, knowing just what he may have felt at times.
They get heavier and tougher to carry through the years and thank God Nikki Sixx was finally able to let go and let God take care of his so that he could begin to heal from the inside.
I remember being thankful that I never got into drugs and that Nikki got his shit together because damn do I love Motley Crue.
I picked his up at a Crue fan and then was thrown into 80s drugs addiction and a hardcore life.
Nikki's writing style is actually pretty damn amazing and this novel compiled of his old diary entries is a seriously raw (like nothing held back) look at addiction, excess, self harm, and a downward spiral that breaks your heart and makes you gag.
I'm glad this isn't my reality but looking into the mind of an addict, as a total psychology nerd, is always interesting to me.
And the reason for this, is he has lived this and is still living it.The story behind The Heroin Diaries is that while Motley Crue were on top of the world, on tour in 1987, Nikki was at the height of his cocaine and heroin addiction.
I have all the time in the world for a guy like this, and I know that what he is doing now with his radio show, and with this book, he just may save some young lives.The Heroin Diaries is also a look behind the scenes at a band at the top and on the road.
I really enjoyed this. Yes, he's egotistical but honest. I liked that he takes responsibility for his life and addiction and some of the crazy things he writes are funny as hell. Recommended, even if you're not a Crue fan. It's just a fun memoir of a terrible addiction.
He was the most forthright and generous Crue member for literal contributions in "The Dirt", so I expected nothing less from his 1987 diary.
The knowledge that Nikki is long-recovered and successful today makes it bearable to read the depressing status of his life while addicted to drugs.
When I got to the end of Nikki's book (when he was finally "clean"), I loved reading about all the good things that happened to him.
Hopefully, if kids or even adults thinking of dabbling with drugs read Nikki's diary it will have a sobering effect.
This book shows Nikki's diary excepts from Christmas Day 1986 to the same day a year later.
It's easy to see just how meaningful this book could be to other addicts.
I'm not an addict, and yet what I found scary was that if that had been me, I'd probably have found myself in the same position as Nikki did.
Although I'd probably die long before I reached the 1987 of my life.It's easy to forget you're reading about a rockstar in one of the world's biggest rock bands, traveling the world, meeting millions of fans etc.
Or just if you love shiny shiny books.
What a ride.
Although I loved Motley Crue back in the day, I was young and had no idea the life they led as rock stars.
Sex, drugs, Rock and roll was the theme back then but I never knew the depths of the darkness it led Nikki too.
One of the last paragraphs that I loved You know, it's pretty easy reading this book to see why I was angry and confused for all those years.
I lived my life being told different stories: some true, some lies and I still don't know which is which.
Children are born in
Although I loved Motley Crue back in the day, I was young and had no idea the life they led as rock stars.
I lived my life being told different stories: some true, some lies and I still don't know which is which.
At birth we are very much like a new hard drive - no viruses, no bad information, no crap that's been downloaded into it yet.
It's what we feed into that hard drive, or in my case "head drive" that starts the corruption of the files.
I read a snippet of this book by Nikki Sixx (of Motley Crue fame, former bass player) since it's a bonus on the CD when you slip the disc into your computer.
Intuitive, amazingly.
Nikki Sixx kept a journal of his experience on beaucoup drugs and the people surrounding him, Motley, and his drug life throughout the 80s.
Now, he is publishing those diaries, with illustrations and photos related to the entries.
A very interesting part is that he has people from "those days" who are still around comment on his diary entries.
Amazingly raw.
"I love twelve year olds because you can hear the bones crack when you stick it in." What kind of guy says this, even drugged up and jokingly? Nikki Sixx does, in this book. I think that may have been the moment my teenage obsession with Motley Crüe stopped. These guys are glorified rapists.
After reading this book, I now know that the cliché, "sex, drugs and rock and roll" is an understatement when it came to Nikki Sixx.
I knew I had to read the book, even though I was never a Mötley Crüe or, let alone, Nikki Sixx fan.
I felt sad when Nikki kept hitting rock bottom, but hopeful when he at least recognized that his life was on a destructive path and that he needed to change it.
I wanted a new body inside.
Not only did Vanity's life change for the better, Nikki's did as well.
I appreciate Nikki's fulfilling his vision of complete honesty when he decided to publish this...
nothing is sugar coated in this sad, vicious diary of a rock star on drugs and out of control with plenty of money to fuel his habit.
The debauchery recounted in the book is tempered with some pretty witty insight from Nikki (as of 2006) and by others who were willing to go on the record in the book to comment on the events as they saw them.
Vanity, his drug addicted girlfriend during this time, contributes some interesting thoughts due to the fact that she is now a born-again evangelist.
Okay, so it's not the world's best written book ever.
Imagine that, the bassist and songwriter for Motley Crue isn't the greatest writer ever.
That being said, this is one of the most compulsively readable books I've read in awhile.
I read it in two days and neglected to do much of anything else.Sometimes a little bit of fluff is good for the soul.
If that little bit of fluff comes hand in hand with lots of sex and large quantities of drug use, so much the better.
Am I the only one who is skepitcal of the fact that Nikki Sixx kept a diary during the height of his heavy drug using days?
Whether or not these stories were actually chronicled by Nikki in '87, the ones about the band and their '87 tour are interesting.
The ones about Nikki shooting up in his closet at home and hallucinating become rather tiresome.
Unfortunately, the closet stories seem to outnumber the touring ones.
The book is worth checking out, if just for the inane commentary by Nikki's nutjob girlfriend Vanity
I have seen Nikki Sixx in concert a couple times, and I love him and his band. As bad as I thought he was....he was much worse. I loved reading this no holds barred telling of his life, and I devoured his diary entries. I have read other books on this band, but this was by far my favorite. He told his truth, and as crazy as it is, I could not put it down.
I really enjoyed this book. An amazing story of a musician's journey to the depths of Hell and back due to the madness of addiction. Highly recommend.Such a great story.
And I guess Nikki was destroying himself in the process of his addiction.It's an interesting insight to this guy's life, really.
We see why the others didn't help, because Nikki would essentially blow up at them, and they realize how it would be hypocritical of them because they were addicts as well.One thing for sure, he wasn't a saint.
Some of the stuff he did to women was shocking, especially in this day and age with sexual harassment being all over the media, but I guess things were vastly different in the 80's.And it was fun trying to pinpoint where I was at while listening to the Heroin Diaries Soundtrack by his side project Sixx:A.M.It was just interesting to read.
Nikki Sixx shouldn’t be alive.
If it weren’t for the occasional OD, I’d be 100% convinced he’s either a robot or an alien sent from another planet on some kind of extraterrestrial Rumspringa.
First, Nikki Sixx is undoubtedly a killer artist and his ability to write beautifully (albeit morbidly), even whilst entirely fucked up, is impressive.
Secondly, the actual content of Nikki’s story is mind boggling and gives folks a whole new understanding of the phenomenon of addiction.
Nikki Sixx seems to have gotten his shit together (14 years clean and sober now, I think) which is mind boggling given the state he was in in the 80′s and 90′s.
Go read a book!
Because seriously, when you have that type of lust/love for a human being that beautiful then that last thing you want to read about is the shitting, puking, and lack of hygiene that dominates Nikki's tale of heroin addiction.
But don't make the mistake of thinking that it is just some sad junkie story--because as much as it is that, it also about getting so far lost that even the things that he loves don't matter--and then coming back.
