https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19238312-winged-warfare---in-world-war-i
This was an enjoyable first-hand account from one of the most successful pilots of WWI.
I believe the book was written during the war, probably with the goal of boosting morale for the Allied public and encouraging war support.
He didn’t seem as war-weary as writers of similar memoirs, perhaps because he was pulled from action before he started suffering from combat fatigue (there was concern that if he was killed, the effect on Allied morale would have been devastating), or perhaps because he wanted to keep things upbeat while the war was still being fought.
A good read for those interested in WWI aviation.
He later retrained as a pilot and returned to France in February 1917 with No. 60 Squadron, flying the Nieuport 17 fighter.
The Germans, with their Albatros DIII fighter, and top units like Jasta 11, commanded by the Red Baron, Manfred von Richthofen, were taking the measure of the RFC and establishing air supremacy over the Front.
Indeed, on one of his patrols over the Front, his squadron tangled with the Red Baron's unit, Jasta 11.
Later in the war, Bishop was given his own command with No. 85 Squadron, Royal Air Force (RAF), which flew the S.E.5A, one of the top fighters of the war.
Pan tells us, “This was the air war of individual combat.
Each man knew who he was fighting.” Sometimes; there were some pilots who decorated their planes and became recognizable (von Richtofen and Voss, for example); most did not.Bishop wrote this sometime between August 1917 and May 1918 when he was stationed in Canada and the States, on duties not involving air combat.
The air combats do seem repetitious and boring; it was a good learning point to read that he, as did most pilots, favored the surprise attack.
One can tell Bishop enjoyed fighting and seeing his totals climbing.
Such is the value of “Winged Warfare” by Canada’s great flying ace, Billy Bishop.
Bishop chronicles his ambition to join the Royal Flying Corps to lift himself out of the mud of the cavalry, the distinction of going up against the red Baron’s Flying Circus, and the techniques of combat.
Bishop’s explanation of why seeing “an enemy going down in flames is a source of great satisfaction” and the scores he sought to settle provide thought for reflection.Read newer tomes for the history of the Great War but savor “Winged Warfare” for its spirit.
Good TeadAn interesting description of air combat during WWI. The author appears to have been blessed with uncommon good luck as well as some natural skills! He does come across as a bit cold blooded; however although probably unsurprising given the business he was in! Very mechanical in his manner of story telling although he did have a story worth telling!
Billy Bishop flew with the Royal Flying Corps in the Great War (WW1). His personal account of his exploits and his thoughts is informative.
Long and dry description of Bishop's engagements. It's like reading the combat reports: dry, lengthy, and repetitive.
Several other things keep impressing me as I read this: 1) How quickly pilots (and per Bishop and McScotch the Germans especially) would disengage or avoid a fight.
Bishop's experience increasingly made him more effective and saved his life.
But there were so many times when he was doing what he should have done, but the unexpected would happen and you can only say, "God was watching over him."For people like me, I don't tire of reading one story after another of guys like this.
There's a sameness but there are also so many unique things that happen every time they go up.
This is Britain's and Canada's top WW1 Ace's account of his early days in the Royal Flying Corps. He wrote this in 1917 when he was home in Canada on leave and to get married, so he hadn't yet achieved his full glory, although as a VC, he was already a hero. The delights of flying, and the enthusiasm and audacity of aerial combat are contrasted with the stress and sometimes disgust of warfare.
Billy was a Canadian pilot who fought for the British in WWI...he was relentless, focused and shot down more airplanes than anyone for the Allies...explains the psychology and performance of German and Allied pilots....Humbly yet well written...
read in summer 1969
A brave manThis is one of the finest and most informative WW I flying books I have ever read. It is thoroughly enjoyable.
Bishop's description of several months of his time in France in 1917 is interesting. The tactics he developed are clearly laid out. His sheer hatred of "the Huns" is clear. The memoir was written in 1918, and it's clear the ideas of someone a century ago are different from how it would be expressed today. At times I found a better editor would have helped tighten up the writing. As a first person account of the war in the air this book is a must read for those interested in that time period.
