https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1123599.Conagher
3.5 I enjoyed this one, my first book by this writer. I plan to read more. I wish this had been a little bit longer or that there had been a second book. I wanted to know more about what happened to the characters. Great, short summer read!
Definitely my favorite L'Amour! But that ending totally killed me and I'm still mad about it . . .
It would be easy...to throw everything overboard and disclaim any responsibility.
It sounded easy, but it was not that easy, even if a man could leave behind his sense of guilt at having deserted a cause.
To be a man was to be responsible.
To be a man was to build something, to try to make the world about him a bit easier to live in for himself and those who followed.
You could sneer at that, you could scoff, you could refuse to acknowledge it, but when it came right down to it, Conn decided it was the man who planted a tree, dug a well, or graded a road who mattered.
My first Louis L'Amour book! I personally think the title should be called, "Cullen Bohannon" for all of you Hell on Wheel's fans, you know who I mean. Yes, Cullen is hot.....and I am free to superimpose any face I want onto Connagher....so, I did. Ok, on to the story....its a quick, easy, enjoyable Western novel. It has some indians, some cowboy's , and the wild, Wild West. I will definitely check out more of Louis L'Amour's books in the future.
"Ο δρόμος τελειώνει στην κόλαση", εκδόσεις ΒΙΠΕΡ.Ενδέκατο βιβλίο του συγγραφέα που διαβάζω και γι'ακόμη μια φορά δεν με απογοήτευσε, πέρασα πολύ καλά και ευχαριστήθηκα δράση και τοπία.
Από την άλλη έχουμε τον Κόναγκερ, έναν τίμιο και εργατικό καουμπόι που κάνει πολλές διαφορετικές δουλειές και που έχει ταξιδέψει σ'ένα κάρο μέρη.
Είναι ένας περιπλανώμενος άνθρωπος που δεν έχει κάτι που να τον κρατήσει για πολύ καιρό σ'ένα μέρος, δεν ψάχνει φασαρίες, αλλά αν κάποιος τα βάλει μαζί του θα τα βρει σκούρα.
Ο Λ'Αμούρ ακολουθεί την πετυχημένη συνταγή που ο ίδιος έχει δημιουργήσει και προσφέρει μια ιστορία με δράση, δυναμικούς χαρακτήρες και ωραία τοπία.
This is an amazing Western book. I loved the rawness and clarity of the story. The descriptions weren't flowery -- instead they just perfectly described the harshness of the land, the people, and the situations. It was a short book but every part of it was important and a continuation of the story. Very well written and pure. I really enjoyed it!
I loved this book because it contained such strong archetypal characters who are honest, hardworking, and dreamers. Their dreams of someone to love do not involve grandeur or extreme wealth but the honest desire for another human to share ideas and common dreams. I also loved it because I like cowboys who can whip a man's butt instead of killing him to accomplish a change. It was a nice bonus that my husband liked it; we had several good chuckles about the situations that L'amour created for the cowboy and how he dealt with problems
Conagher is a great, short Western novel. Louis L'Amour makes Conagher the man an interesting, complex character instead of the standard tough cowboy archetype you might expect. There's bravery and grit in the man, but also an underlying sadness and loneliness. This ties perfectly into the sweet romance between Mrs. Teale and Conagher, as she herself is lonely and has sorrow in her bones. Anyone looking for an entertaining, well written and quick Western ride, Conagher is the book for you.
Western writers and readers should read CONAGHER for the depth of characterization and vocabulary words with which L'Amour packed all of his novels. Although the story does have some shoot-'em-up action, what's more notable is L'Amour's portrayal of iconic tropes: the lone cowboy with the Code of the West tattooed on his soul, the tough frontier widow who falls in love with a brutal land, outlaws with no friends and even fewer scruples.
Being a huge Sam Elliott fan, I tried to watch the movie a while back but found it a little confusing. Reading the book, I kept hearing Elliott's voice for Conn. I really liked this book--the bad guys still had some honor, and the good guys were genuinely good while still being competent fighters. I flew through this book in 2 days, and now am eager to try watching the movie again. My only complaint was the occasional slow part, but when the action picked up again it was a pleasure to read.
One of my favorite L'Amour books! But I love them all...mine have been re-read so many times they are dog-eared, & some are coming apart. Such a shame he had to die & leave us without new stories to read!
I couldn't help myself... I finished it in almost one sitting. Such an easy read. Love it.
I am reading Louis Lamour books in order by year written and have read more than 45 of his books so far. This is by far the best book so far. It has all the ingredients: tough cowboy, strong lady, kids, outlaws, love and tragedy but it is also well formed and completed. I am sure I will find others, but I am surprised it isn't a movie! Just enjoy!
My first taste of reading Louis L'Amour, and I enjoyed it. His characters have depth, although his writing style took a bit for me to get used to. His portrayal of life in the Midwest during the frontier days is bleak at times, but realistically so (it made me very thankful to live in this time!). Overall, an enjoyable book.
An unusual 'LL western where an Aging cowboy is looking for a place to settle down in. It begins on a whim when he writes notes and attached them to sagebrush to send all over the southwest. A few are found by one woman who needs a man to help raise her son. This is an excellent read and the made for TV movie started San Elliot and was excellent.....DEHS
So, in the month of my birthday and usually when I miss my dad the most for a variety of reasons, I read his favorite author in his memory.I wish I had read him while my dad was alive so I could talk to him.
Nothing flowery, kind of like the land which he describes in his books (a land that my dad LOVED.) He crafted stories well, and for a genre that I don't usually read, it's engaging and fresh.This book had a bit more romance than others that I have read and I liked it.
I kind of wanted more but it ended well.
I had seen the movie and enjoyed it ...
but, the book was superb as well.
It is the classic western of a single cowboy with a moral compass that is simple and direct.
It contains good scenes of the 'white hat' versus the 'black hats'.
It also shows how much the character of a man can do to win over a situation ...
even with men who is pitted against.
Finally, it is a love story of two lonely people out on the prairie who come to realize that they love each other.
In other words it is a good read for anyone who likes westerns.
One of the things I appreciate about L'Amour is the geographic integrity of his stories and insight into life in those areas. Unless I missed it, this book didn't have specific geography. It is set north of Arizona (or in northern Arizona) but its location isn't specifically mentioned. The story itself is one I enjoyed immensely. Sufficient mystery and survival insight without excess violence. The obligatory romance and considerable homesteading info. Good book.
One could argue that if you've read one L'Amour book you've read all of them. But this one is a stand out. A romantic adventure with two very strong characters making due in a harsh corner of the West. Like Hemingway, L'Amour could say a lot with very little. And he knows his subject matter - the West and the people who tamed it - better than most.
While I liked the story well enough, I didn't find this quite as well written as some other L'Amour books I enjoyed more—the style was a bit jerky and abrupt, the dialogue somewhat stilted. Good enough, but not my favorite L'Amour.
An all time.favoriteOne classic I read over and over. sparsely written Louis L'Amour got this one right, with character imagery and near perfect dialogue.
I am interested in trying more westerns. This genre is new to me, and I am pleasently surprised by the simple stories filled with morality, and pathos and sensitivity I didn't expect.
Fast paced western action with a heart warming romantic twist. Highly recommended!
When Conagher follows the trail of some rustled cattle in the midst of a winter blizzard he takes refuge at Mrs. Teale's who nurses him back to health while he teaches her stepson how to build a corral and shoots venison for the table.
As with many Louis L'Amour westerns, nature in the form of harsh weather and vast unoccupied spaces plays a major role in this novel, posing challenges for humans as well as livestock.
While Conagher has its fair share of saloon brawls, gunfights, and conflicts with marauding Apaches, it is the human relationships and the struggle to survive in an as yet untamed West that make this novel worth reading.
The book I am read is called “Conagher” by Louis L’Amour.
The main one is called Conagher and his rival Smoke Parnell.
I found this book because I like Louis L’Amour books and western books in general.
The book is about a man called Conagher and he is a cattle driver.
The group is called Ladder Five.
I think the book ending was good.
My favorite part of the book is when Conagher is being hunted through the mountains and he is tracked down.
People who like western books or cowboy books would like this book by Louis L’Amour.
CONNAGHER by Louis L'Amour is an excellent western book.
The book has two main characters Conn Connagher and Evie Teale.
Conn Connagher is a drifting cowhand who's drifted all over the western United States he meets Evie Teale an her 2 children and then finds a job riding for a ranch as a cow hand not far away but there is a cattle rustle problem in the area.
Or if u like action stories.
I gave this book four out of 5 stars because even though I really like it it's not my favorite or near my favorite book.
Fun, easy read.
I first read One of his books when I was a child as my dad loved his books, and it had been about 10 or so years since I’ve read one.A simple story with straightforward characters, nothing fancy but good writing and descriptive prose, as well as good and bad, though a code of honor if you will for the bad guys, as well as the good guys.
A pleasant change from recent stories, and entertaining too.
Recommended if you like westerns and descriptive prose, not too complex characters and an easy enjoyable read.
He'd met a few gunfighters.Buried a couple.They came and they went.Conagher is an "old" ranch hand at 35 and in the beginning is looking for a ranch job to tide him over the winter. Evie Teale and her husband arrive at a lonely ranch house where he leaves her and his children to buy a herd of cows. He is never heard of again. Evie struggles to keep herself and her two step children alive. Conagher discovers that the ranch he hires on to is under siege by outlaws. Then, poetry starts arriving on tumbleweeds.
One of the best westerns and novels in general that I have ever read. L'Amour even dropped a romance into the middle of this and it improved the story, rather than detract from it as usually happens in a tough-guy kind of book like this.If you have never read a Louis L'Amour novel, this is the one you should begin with or give to someone who is unfamiliar with the genre.Find it! Buy it! Read it!
He stood for what’s right and good. He tried to avoid fights but didn’t back down either. And…. He was lonely and had to find the author of the notes. ConagherShe came with her husband and children to a harsh land. She, when several months had passed, concluded her husband wasn’t returning. She wrote notes on tumbleweeds. Evie TealeWhat a great read. The Old West lives through the words of L’Amour. The danger. The thrill. The rawness.
