https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7842288-beautiful-darkness
i would love to give this book 1 star and just forget about it, for so many reasons:- despite the potentially interesting role reversal happening (mysterious supernatural GIRL meets weepy, slack-jawed BOY), the dialogue between the two is just as mawkish and hand-wringy as bella & edward.- my God, two authors and two pages of credits to supporters of this project, and they still don't know how to write?
repetition is bad writing.- the last third of the book should be completely pumped-up narrative excitement, but for every page of actual action there are two pages of ridiculously obvious exposition and eye-rollingly banal dialogue.- new kinds of supernatural beings shouldn't just pop up to cause trouble or save the day or be the mother of the best character, John Breed.
Big Puddle of Meh   Don't get me wrong, I enjoyed (parts) of this one. It was (mostly) a fun read but every time I started to get into this one, I'd run into one of  my pettiest pet peeves . This book was just chock-full of 1) coincidences, 2) because reasons and 3) all-encompassing true love (well, until hot-girl #2 showed up).1) The CoincidencesThe sheer amount of well-timed coincidences drove me mad. It just felt so convenient and lazy. Case and point:  Ancient magic designed to repel anyone
. This book was just chock-full of 1) coincidences, 2) because reasons and 3) all-encompassing true love (well, until hot-girl #2 showed up).1) The CoincidencesThe sheer amount of well-timed coincidences drove me mad.
3) all-encompassing true love (well, until hot-girl #2 showed up).So. Much.
Honestly, it really felt like they were just dragging the plot along with the mini-breakup scenes and the new hot-girl.
Their love story was so well-resolved in the first book that all the holes punched in it in this round felt so superficial.
I was honestly only reading for the parts where he was in.
Before Ethan can even take a real grasp of the situation Lena runs away and though things between them are strained Ethan will go and try to find her.
With the help of the sarcastic, goofy but studly Link, the smart as a whip new character Liv, and the wise old cat Lucille, Ethan goes through a journey where his heart leads him to Lena and where he will try with all he has to bring her back to him.Even though I did like reading this, I noticed the length of it a little too much.
It will end with a major climactic battle in which all the baddies will be destroyed, the world made right, or else a small debate after which the baddies decide to walk away.I AM BORED WITH THIS PLOT.I enjoyed the first Caster series book, but this one is very flat and goes on far too long for no real reason.
I don’t know why we had to have Liv pushed into the story as someone Ethan constantly thinks ‘what if’ about.
That’s it, for all of this waste of time, all the sacrifices everyone makes for her and they are monumental, she chooses not to be good or bad, to just be her.
MY WTB NON-SPOILER REVIEWSeriously? This Book, three words honey---What The Buck!!!---(Can't bucking believe I'm using this pseudo-curse BUCK YOU! YOUTUBE) Well what can I say O_o??? *speechless for a moment*This book is totally bad-ass, awesome, epic, pawned, heart-stopping, hair-raising, spine-tingling, thrilling, electrifying, breath taking, totally wicked yada yada. I can go on and on but I think my limited vocabulary won't do it justice.Stars speak for yourself. Ah Hello! Hi there Blindy! L
*retarded face*This book is like a puzzle(can't believe I'm doing bucking similes), it started out without any sense and lots of mysteries and questions but once pieces and pieces adds up and then you get to see at the end the finish work and it all made sense now that you know how beautiful and complicated the story is.And can I just add how creepy the book is and I was like, "Mom I swear I'm not hallucinating I can't sleep in my room and I think there's an Incubus in my closet!" And then Mom would replied, "Are you on drugs?" **Insert my WTB face here**
Ethan falling in love with tuuuuuuut and Lena ditching Ethan for tuuuuuuuut(I know, Holy Buck right?).
I LOVE GATLIN.
There is something truly addicting about Gatlin...
and I often find it hard to withdrawal from the world within the pages.Beautiful Darkness is one word is intense.
Loved the new characters in this novel!
and I loved how Link and Ridley took some of the focus too!
I am very interested to see what these new characters have in store for us in the next two books!These are beautifully written novels and I truly admire Kami and Margie's talent!
but I think it sets up something epic for book three.
* Spoilers for those who have not read Beautiful Creatures *Lena's sixteenth birthday has come and gone.
His love for Lena is both tragic and beautiful.
The doomed nature of their relationship is gorgeous.The side characters are also a fantastic addition - Link and Ridley, Amma and *sniff* Macon, the great Aunts, Lena's Caster family, even some of the cattier girls at Ethan and Lena's school figure in well to the story.
We get a unique story where the guy and the girl (Ethan and Lena) DON'T end up together but everyone's still happy and the choices feel real." Nope.
I was beyond disappointed when in the wrap-up at the end, Liv was relegated to a few quick sentences after she sacrificed so much and had such a natural, healthy connection with Ethan.Was it just me, or did this book feel like it could have been about 100 pages shorter?
I hope at some point the books in this series can give readers this kind of a satisfying ending.
Well Lena.I just couldn't like her in this book and I'm not sure I want to like her.
And she influence everyone around her to be lesser of what I would like them to be.
This is actually a excellent quality the writers have, to portray this influence so correctly.
But that didn't make me want to stab Lena less.The setting of this book and the new "world" - for lack of better word - was awesome.
I love how complex this "sixteenth moon" has become.I can't wait to see where our journey takes us next.
Garcia and Stohl tend to throw plenty of description and information at the reader for the first three hundred pages, and makes you think, How is this all going to come together?
No complaints here, since I loved the development of the Caster world and look forward to seeing more of it in future installments.My favorite thing about Beautiful Creatures was its cozy, Southern setting and characters.
In Beautiful Darkness, like I said, the setting may be different some of the time, but the characters are still there.
Ridley was probably my favorite character from the last book, so seeing her become one of the main characters in this novel was refreshing.

Sure, it took me a long time to read, but that's because I didn't want this book to end.
●The Plot/Storyline: In the small southern town where nothing ever happened, everthing was suddenly crazy ever since Ethan Wate met Lena Duchannes, who showed him a secret world that was hidden right there all along.
This book was definitely more fast-paced than the first and filled with unexpected plot twists and a cliffhanger ending that will leave you dying for more!
He's also definitely swoon-worthy.●John Breed: He's evil and everything bad, but how can you not like him?
●The Ending: Such a surprise!
Definitely a cliffhanger a.k.a. I need to get my hands on the next book!!
When Ethan starts having mysterious visions again, this time without Lena, he knows she is in trouble, but he just isn't sure what the danger really is.
When Lena really starts to take a turn for the worst, Ethan may just be the only person who can save her from herself, but what happens when she doesn't want to be saved?
I am very impressed with the way this series is progressing and handling the "information and mystery" issues.If you thought the stakes were high in the first book, this one steps it up that much further.
Talking about it, it’s really sad that lots of writers do influenced by twilight that no matter how original the concept they have, you could still notice stain from twilight.However, I’m guessing the authors’ references in making this book are the following:Twilight.
Please tell me that Link couldn’t do that too.Other things that I noticed aside from being unoriginal:The book has a rough transition that evokes every reader how it consists of two authors.
Otherwise, you’ll be surprised and amazed for you won’t notice the twists are coming.Lastly, I liked this book because it somehow brag something despite of being judge of having unoriginal concepts—the CASTER word itself, much more the world behind it.
The darkness of melancholy, grief and sorrow.
Then the following chapters continued to go dark.
There are interesting characters that has been summoned in this second book of the Beautiful Creatures series:LIV: She is actually my favorite in here.
Her wit and knowledge contributed a lot for the sake of Ethan.
There are lot of mysteries slash revelations slash twists slash turns slash revelations again that made me think my brain is a time bomb ticking ready to explode.
Actually, a lot of times I witnessed myself swearing.I really enjoyed the book and the feeling it Casted on me.
I HAVE NOW OFFICIALLY FALLEN IN LOVE WITH THIS SERIES!!!This book started of pretty slow but once the plot started I was hooked.
The world of the Casters and their history and everything gets even more complicated and interesting and l loved it.
We are introduced to new characters who are very fascinating( some good, some BAD).
And I just have say this, the poems just keep coming don't they(not that I mind them- i like them).Ethan is, honestly, an amazing person.
This book gets a 4 from me, and I look forward to the next one.
I really liked ‘Beautiful Creatures’ for a number of reasons as I mentioned above, but none of these things were present in this sequel – the mythos remains interesting and well crafted but it’s so clumsily put into the story with giant chunks of show-don’t-tell that it adds yet more speed-bumps to a story that desperately needs an energy boost.
This also left me wondering why the hell Ethan was so obsessively in love with Lena, especially since there were so many more interesting things about Ethan I wanted to know about, such as the return of his dad into his life after the events of the previous story.
I know that Lena was a major bitch and whiny like hell but it was so moving that I couldn't stop reading it.
I don't count John Breed as a part of any love interest (he's mine!!!!) so let's say that triangle consist of Lena, Ethan and someone else.
Though, in the end, it didn't feel like there was some sort of a love triangle at all.New characters, new characters!
People, you gotta read this!!!Like with every main female character in sequels, Lena was a whiny one.
I have a feeling it's going to become even worse because "oh, god, I've changed everything!
The Caster CHronicles are going to be the next HArry POTTer Series,seriously.Amazing!!!!!Very colourfull characters,full of secrets,revelations,plot twists.Uhm...the new adds (wont say anything) are tremendous.I can't say anything because it will be full of spoilers.just get to the end.I am a huge fan,i believe that this can become a fantastic film.Du no.....
fantastic writters plot.
etch etch.Just amazing and much more better than the fantastic first one.In a few words:THUMBS UP!!!!ps.Sorry i cant reveal anything because what got my attention is that every page has a spoiler to the story.if u read it u'll get what i want to say.DEfinetelly a re-read for me!!
Loved this!Beautiful Darkness is like drinking a cup of hot cocoa.
Very.Very Lost.I have to admit, I was pretty frustrated with her character through out most of this book, but her journey was necessary to find her true path.Ethan totally owned this one.
His love, his strength and his courage was something to be proud of.
I loved the new twists concerning his role.
Magical and mysterious characters and a concept so rich you could taste it.Lots of surprises happen.
New characters and a bunch of new twists to get your mind spinning.
I was completely intrigued and loved every second of this Amazing world.More Please!
That was my first update on this book and unfortunately the first 200 pages are just that: Sombre, dreary, with lots of crying and sadness.
I wanted to like this book.
There were a lot of things that I did enjoy in the book:I liked the Caster magic and lore.
Every reference to Caster magic was interesting and well thought out.
She also provided a sexy, British accented, secondary love interest for Ethan as well.
How many 17 year old boys cry as much as Ethan does?
While I enjoyed the exciting conclusion to the book, I was disappointed with the last page.
I wanted to like this book so bad.
What’s it called when in a plot the protagonist is faced with an insurmountable problem and then all the sudden the author creates a seemingly random solution without any prior mention of the solutions existence?
Where this eagle came from or why he would want to save the protagonist has not been hinted to or mentioned prior to this point.
(thank you Chance)One of my favorite things in Beautiful Creatures was Lena and her relationship/interactions with Ethan.
(view spoiler)[And what was up with Liv, did anyone else really like her only to have Ethan break her heart and ruin her future?
Everything I loved about the first book is gone from the second, and the things that bothered me about the first book are magnified in the second.The slow beginning of Beautiful Creatures put me off a bit, but once I got into the story, that little pest faded away and I became involved with the characters.
In Beautiful Darkness, I had a hard time getting back into the story (partly because I didn't remember exactly what had happened at the end of Beautiful Creatures and the second book does not give any sort of recap), and by the time I got to page 250, I was thinking - OK, so Lena is going dark, Ethan still loves her and wants to save her.
After roughly a year and a half, I though it was time to visit Gatlin,South Carolina again.I dove into the second book in the Beautiful Creatures series.
Her guilt over being the cause of his death pushes her over the edge and she has run away with a strange and powerful Caster.Ethan, fresh from having his life saved in said horrific fire, is stung by Lena's seeming rejection of him.
The book dragged at times, but over all it was a decent sophomore effort.
And the kids have just finished their sophomore year.
At the end of the book, they are anticipating their junior year.
It still was a light read, not too much thinking needed, quite the simple story (i.e. many turns in the story happened because of random people showing up out of nowhere helping the main character).
What I liked was how easy the story read.
Another thing I enjoyed was that the annoying teenage relationship drama was kept to a minimum (because the female main character was absent for most of the book..).
I liked the side characters like Link and Olivia.
I will be continuing with the series since this turned out to be such an easy and quick read.
I LOVE the endings to these books, they are the sole reason why I trudge through the three hundred or so other pages that make up the exposition.
I felt like the plot was not as believable as the first book in terms of withheld information, and there were more minor inconsistencies.I liked learning more about Gaitlin's mysterious past, and how even some of the most seemingly unaware people played a part.
As for character favorites, I have to go with Link and Ridley, because I cannot resist the helpless guy and powerful girl.I hope the next installment might be cut down about a hundred pages, or have the plot speed up some.
Beautiful Creatures dazzled me.
A well-deserved 5 stars.
Beautiful Darkness is also a very special book and a terrific read.
What took BD down to 4 stars for me was that it took me the first 200 pages to really get into the story and take off flying to finish the rest.
The story was not bad by any means, but Lena was kind of irritating in this book -- the girl is certainly dealing with a lot of issues.
I adore the unique supporting characters.
Loved the addition of Liv. Amma is the greatest.
You can just FEEL the south in these books.
I loved this book. Definitaly worth the wait. There were parts where I laughed, parts where I cried, parts where I screamed. This book has it all!
3 Better Stars   I am still having a hard time reading this series… and an even harder time reviewing it…. However, it is getting better…[ [book:Beautiful Darkness|7842288](Caster Chronicles #2) BY Kami Garcia Lissa’s Second Hardest Review Ever As hard as this series is for me to read I have to admit that book two was much better than boon one. I managed to finish it in 15 hours verses the 21 hours it took me to read book one. Just like the first book as things started to escalate the author wo
As hard as this series is for me to read I have to admit that book two was much better than boon one.
Apparently, the author think people reading her books are idiots.
After reading the first two books I think it would have been better if the author cut most of the weight out of both books and combined them into one.
I also had a better time seeing some of the characters and feeling for them.
I love it when old people are funny.None of the characters captured me whole-heartedly in book one that changed for book two.
Don’t get me wrong, I love that this one focused more on the Caster world and how Ethan and Lena’s family have more connections than I would have thought possible.
Ethan, he is such an amazing character.
I don’t even feel bad to say I did not like Lena in this book, she was acting a fool.
I found it so cute how she ended up being an essential part of the story.)But omg the best part of the book was when Ethan figured out the secret of the Arclight.
