https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/281350.Grave_Secrets
Really boring.I don't ever want to read about another autopsy. If doctors are going to write books, please can they stop boring us with technical details.
Um...what the hell happened?
This is most definitely not one of Reichs' better books.
By the end of the book it was like "And I read this because?".
It lacked the suspense, action and mystery that I got used to in the four previous novels.
The only thing that had me jumping for the next novel in the series is what happens in the last chapter, and I won't divulge that info so as not to spoil it.
Don't get me wrong, it wasn't a bad book (hell, I've read worse, trust me) but because I found it severely lacking, it's not the greatest read.
It's either her or some random family member in trouble - but mostly her.In Grave Secrets, Temperance is in Guatemala and while there she is constantly worrying about Ryan and her daughter.
She's also getting into danger, constantly, and I probably rolled my eyes a bunch of times.
I just feel like her book character is completely different than her tv character is really disappointing.
I also feel like this book was meh in every department.
I just feel like not a lot happened in this book and it definitely made me hesitant to dive into the next book.
I mourn for them.For those not yet familiar with this ambitious author, Reichs, like the character in her books, Tempe Brennan, is a forensic anthropologist for the North Carolina medical examiner.
In Grave Secrets, Tempe works with a group to identify the victims of a mass murder by soldiers in the Guatemalan village of Chupan Ya twenty years before.Things are never simple, though, and she is soon sought out and consulted by Guatemalan police on a local case: Can she help them identify remains found in a septic tank?
Reichs does such a good job describing the retrieval of the body that the reader feels a bit repulsed.
Meanwhile, two other stories compete for Tempe's (and our) attention: the case of a skeleton found in a septic tank, and all the interesting technical feats involved in ID'ing the victim; and the disappearance of four missing young women.
Pursuing and resolving these cases involved the participation of two leading men in the story - detective Galiano, whom Tempe comes to like, of the Guatemalen PD; and long-time Canadian associate and romantic interest Andrew Ryan, who just "happens" to be old buddies with Galiano and is apparently free to run back and forth to Canada with little restraint.
This book is only the 2nd novel I've read by this author.
She seems to hover around the 2 - 3 star range for me.I liked the beginning of this book.
It sounded interesting.
But then it went up in flames.
That was so disappointing because I thought this had some great potential.
The story line became so unreal without anything to back it up.
I did like the MC though and I liked that this book didn't delve too much into the ugly details about her job.
I loved the way the author linked all the clues.
Overall, this was 3 stars for me.
Its been awhile since I've visited with Tempe Brennan.
I like her and I like her stories.
I had to take a break, though, they were getting repetitive and formulaic.
I missed her, though, after all these years, so I read book 5.
I liked it!
This one takes place in Guatemala and there's a handsome detective down there that I like - Detective Galiano.
He's giving Ryan a run for his money!I like all the details in Kathy Reich's books.
Temperance, of course, knows too much because she's just so smart and that's always a dangerous place to be.
No matter where mystery or work takes here, somehow it always ties back to Canada.
It's just that sometimes I find the unrelated mysteries she encounters whenever she goes BACK to Canada (or away as in some previous books) to confuse matters at times.
I liked the Galiano character, but once again..the ties back to Canada are a little too coincidental to be beleived.What's good about this book is that (even though at times a little confusing with all the minor players and subplots) is that the main mystery is never what it seems at the beginning of the book.
This book literally started off with a bang since Tempy hears her coworkers being shot over the phone.
One thing that was annoying in this book was the slight love triangle.
While in Guatemala, Tempy works with Bartolome "Bat" Galiano, and sparks fly between them.
The little conversations those two had, most likely about Tempy, really irked me.
Also the ending of this was plain ridiculous.
(view spoiler)[ The shooter had Brennan in front of him, drugged and confused, while he has a gun.
(hide spoiler)] I was very annoyed by the ending.
AND WHO DOES TEMPY GO ON VACATION WITH!?
I suppose the same could be said here where, even though Tempe is in Guatemala, the case just happens to bring in the Canadian ambassador, and therefore Ryan.
There is a complication in this book when she gets ever so slightly romantically linked with a cop in Guatemala.
This being Tempe, and Reichs, no physical love-making ever happens, of course.
Oh, and you will learn far more that you need to know about DNA in cat hair.At the end of the day, this is about par for the course amongst Reichs' books, but its pedestrian mystery is elevated by the unusual setting.
I've only recently begun reading the Tempe Brennan series.
I was not prepared for that at all.That said it is easy to see the nod to the books in the very first episode of Bones in Grave Secrets.
The previous four books were well written, and told interesting stories, but it is easy to see why the TV series gave a nod to book five in the way that it did.I don't want to give too much away, but I believe what made the book wonderful was the amount of people Tempe interacted with.
I also found all the Canadian tie-ins to be way too coincidental.
Come on Ryan's best college bud now lives in Guatemala and just happens to be the lead on a case that Tempe Brennan is working.
Neither is the Specter families Canadian ties.
And for all Tempe missed Ryan while she was in Guatemala, when she's back in Canada all she does is bitch at him.
I like Ryan but I just can't see him and Tempe long term.
All in all not my favorite Tempe Brennan book.
https://poseidons99.wordpress.com/201...
However, in some ways the story, while interesting followed many of the same patterns as the previous books, ultimately either Brennan or someone she cares about is always in peril at the end due to the case she's unraveling and got too deep into without backup which is just becoming a little repetitive.
As always with crime fiction I will say that my finding similar aspects in each book and finding them repetitive may be due to the fact I am reading them consecutively rather than having a break inbetween such as readers who read these books as they came out did, which may have an effect on enjoyment.
Overall, I still found this book enjoyable and enjoyed it more than the previous book in the series.
The true involvement of Brennan in the Guatemala government through her expertise is highly gripping.
To turn this into a love triangle issue as well as the other thread for the case of the bones in the septic tank and the rest is a true example of the talent held by Reichs.The characters in this book are so deep that they leave nothing to the imagination, it really is possible to get right into the story and feel as if you are walking alongside them rather than reading the words from the page.
Audio book narrated by Katherine BorowitzForensic anthropologist Tempe Brennan is in Guatemala working to excavate a decades-old mass grave and identify the bodies buried there, when she is asked to help local police with their investigation into the disappearance of four young women.
The pace is unrelenting, with just enough scientific information to make Tempe an interesting professional, but not so much that the non-scientist reader loses interest.
I typically give up on a series after about three or four installments; it’s not necessarily the fault of the author, but I get bored reading about the same character in similar settings over and over again.
is the 5th in this series, and I may have reached my limit.
Welcome back readers to another episode of Forensic Science, I mean C.S.I., no, I mean Cold Case Files...
The subplots were so abrupt and interwoven so carelessly, you have to keep checking back to make sure your reading the right book.
The characters are exasperating and colorless.
In all honesty, if it weren’t for the back cover blurb, I wouldn’t be able to tell you any character names they are so forgettable.
On the flip side, the pace in the book is balanced and keeps the story flowing consistently.
I give this book a 1 .
She tries to link the story to the massacres that occurred in Guatemala between 1962 and 1996 but what happens is that the murder mystery and the true history run concurrently in the book and don't really relate.
What I did end up understanding is that Guatemala is being run by the same people who ordered and carried out massacres.
Because she can write a good scene, particularly if it is forensic, I enjoyed most of the book but thought the beginning was wobbly and the ending was weak.
I had trouble with her novels before this one.
Then, I was desperate for a book to read on the bus, and this one was on the bookshelf, so I grabbed it and am happy to report, enjoyed it immensely.
I have read all the books following this one and have enjoyed them all as well.
(It might have something to do with the TV series BONES, which isn't anything like the books (except for the main character), but which I am addicted to watching).
So, if you're new to Kathy's books, start with this one and go forward from there!
Another good mystery about Forensic Anthropologist, Temperance Brennen.
I thoroughly enjoyed it, though I have to admit having a bit of difficulty in keeping characters straight some of the time.
Generally I don't care for books that are in a series, and will never read series books back to back.
However, this is one series I enjoy enough to read with little time between.
The characters grow enough and have complex enough lives that I don't get bored with them.
There is just a bit of romance added, but not overdone.
All in all a "good read".
Not an edge of your seat thriller, more a slow unfolding of many layers.
I have been following this series of books for many years now and have always enjoyed every reading experience.
Recently I have revisited them again as my daughter wanted me to buddy read them with her after discovering the television series and then seeing the books in our bookshelves.
I am glad I read the books before seeing some of the television show because otherwise I may not have liked them quite so much.
I enjoy this series and loved the last paragraph of this book... what a cliffhanger! I really had a hard time with this story, though. I just didn't like it. The harsh banter between Tempe & Ryan was irritating and the really negative commentary and judgmental thoughts from Tempe makes me think K.Reichs was in a bad mood when she wrote this. It just wasn't enjoyable.
We do have Reichs usual strong characters, solid mystery and enough forensic science to satisfy, while not overwhelming.I don't know the extent to which Reichs has fictionalized the older atrocities--names of villages, specific individuals, etc--and certainly the "new" murders are fictional, though one suspects the nature of the coverups and cold-bloodlessness of murderers remaining in power is not.
I believe Reichs herself was involved in forensic work on remains found in some of the mass graves, though unsurprisingly Amazon doesn't mention this on her author page, so be prepared for hard truths if you read this.
Despite this, this book speaks at least some hard truths to readers who know nothing about what happened in Latin America in the '80s.
Once again, everything was just TOO conveniently connected for this to be a believable story and the unnecessary detailed descriptions drag on. None the less, I enjoyed listening to it on my daily commute.
I remember years ago this was the last of her series I read, it was an ok read but the recipe for the books was becoming formulaic and I'm not a huge lover of murder mystery. I keep thinking I should pick up her latest, see how she's evolved or not.
The story seemed so real...I was captivated.
Not really where I expected this story to go, but still a good read nonetheless. The narrator was tolerable so that helped. I don't see why they gave her such a low rating on Audible. She did get a little monotone now and again, but I've heard worse
Neodbytně se k nim snaží dostat reportér Ollie Nordstern a Temperance je požádána o pomoc při odkrývání jímky, která pravděpodobně obsahuje lidské tělo, protože se pohřešují čtyři mladé dívky.
Podaří se najít další tělo dívky a zatknout i jejího vraha, ale otázkou zůstává – kdo a proč – chce znemožnit identifikaci těla z jímky.
Galiano a Ryan jsou staří přátelé ze školy.Tempe se podaří zjistit, že je dna z dívek byla těhotná a proto pravděpodobně zemřela, ale nedává jí žádný smysl, proč by někdo bránil tomuto vyšetřování.
Teaming up with Special Crimes Investigator Bartolomé Galiano and Montreal detective Andrew Ryan, Tempe quickly becomes enmeshed in the cases of four privileged young women who have vanished from Guatemala City — and finds herself caught in deadly territory where power, money, greed, and science converge.This was my first Kathy Reichs' book after having watched Bones for years.
I am now reading her books from the beginning (mostly for the Andrew Ryan back story) and getting a feel for how Reichs' writing may have improved over the years.
