https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25499718-children-of-time
I had a feeling I would like this book but hells bells, I had no idea how much I would love it.
Then people wake up a million years later on their ships.
Well, okay not a million but still.
There is a new planet that continued to make itself from the start of terra forming many years ago < -- I don't think I spelled that right but we all know what it means.
Dudes and dudettes, this book is like no other I have read.
Loved it, looks nice on my shelf with one of his other books.
For pure SF, it hits the heights of ideas, memorable characters, exploration, and message, although the message is definitely not one that is apparent until the end.It has all the hallmarks of a good classic SF tale, and I was reminded every step of the way of John Brunner's The Crucible of Time, with the bringing up of an alien society from its primitive roots to space exploration, the wild quest of humanity trying to survive it's own stupidity in over ten thousand years of desperate Ark travel, and throw into the mix a great mad cyborg/AI god/scientist who's belief system gets sorely challenged.
This was such an interesting read!If you're looking for a different take on the whole alien thing... try this book. I never thought I would end up rooting for spiders... but I did!
Could an author really give an alien feel and yet remain sympathetic to creatures that inspire such fear?Yes and yes.Aside from that general set-up, I went into Children blind.
I thought the feel of primitive spider-thinking rather believable, and appreciated the structuring of a very different world-view.
I ended up believing the premise enough to enjoy the story and not feel hampered by arguing the science in my head.
I was also intrigued by the spiders' interaction with other beings on the world, as well as how they are characterized."She knows that individual ants themselves cannot be treated with, communicated with or even threatened.
The plot revolved around the race for survival between races on attaining a single terraformed planet; The races being the last surviving humanity that fled their dying Earth, and the sentient spiders accidentally evolved by a mad scientist; these beings were born and live on the planet.Picture: Children of Time (Polish cover)This standalone encompassed a lot of relatable topics to our society such as gender discrimination, greed, and on the bright side, empathy.
The premise of this book with that particular manga is very similar, with the differences being the planet is Mars and the sentient creatures are cockroaches.
Children of Time’ is one of those books one devours obsessively and then mourns once it’s finished.
Yes, ‘Children of Time’ is that good.The author acknowledges our implicit arachnophobia and then very cleverly turns it on its head; indeed, after a while you kind of forget that these characters are spiders at all, even when they get stuck in to very spiderish behaviour.
That it is in not in any way a utopia, without seeming unrecognisable or awful either, is another credit to the unapologetic intelligence of this book.
5ish stars.
An unqualified masterpiece.
It's grand, expansive, and both character-driven and plot-driven.Uplifted spiders.
The journey that the humans take over the millennia, if not as thrilling, is dramatic in its buildup to the inevitable convergence of the two groups.It chronicles the rise and fall of the human population and explores its recurring, natural gravitation towards malignant ambition and self-destruction.
While that aspect is disheartening, there’s also hope, because the spiders, being non-human, might be able to circumvent those tragedies...
It’s about nature, pride, communication, fear, change, and determination at all costs.
Desperate humans take to the stars in generation ships like the Gilgamesh to find these terraformed planets their ancestors supposedly prepared for them, but instead of a welcoming home, they find Kern’s World and the repercussions of her genetically engineered virus.
It is their world now, and they don’t take kindly to the assumptions of these strange looking humans who think they can just take over and live on their planet.As a huge life sciences geek, I loved the ideas behind books like Children of Time or what some other science fiction fans call “biopunk”.
What a beautiful book.
Six hundred totally absorbing pages.
One of the best Science Fiction books I have ever read.
Not being particularly coherent here but let me say again it is very, very good.It shows mankind at its worst - I would not have cared if the last human being in the universe had died at the end.
I hate spiders but was converted to the sentient kind and I was cheering them on as they grew smarter and smarter.
I could not imagine how it was going to end but Adrian Tchaikovsky is some kind of genius and the last few pages were just brilliant.
There is something in this book for everyone.
Five stars because this puppy had me rooting for arachnids. Five stars for carefully crafted characters, humans and otherwise alike. Five stars because of the incredible, millennia- spanning plot. Five stars because of that ENDING! Not what I expected and so satisfying.
Unfortunately the only habitable they manage to find, after hundreds of years and generations of crew have come and gone, is the nice planet now ruled by the spiders.Wonderful Polish edition coverIt has been a busy month so it took me almost three weeks to finish.
That is until a radical and messianic male spider comes along.The human side of the story is less fascinating but it never drags down the narrative.
Of course now I need to stealth-write a book that has spiders as utterly horrible people-destroying bad guys just to utterly throw my readership...”From Adrian Tchaikovsky's Reddit AMA.
The first is the one presents the actions of the inhabitants of the last ship-ark with the human cargo, Gilgamesh (view spoiler)[note the stroke of genius, to call the ship with the name of an ancient hero known mostly for his long and perilous journey to discover the secret of eternal life (hide spoiler)], trying to find a new planet to settle on.
Consequently, we have one chapter about the human journey through the universe, and another one about the life of spiders on the green planet.
We have the destruction of humanity, genetic experiments, interstellar journey, fighting for survival with alien forms of life, artificial intelligence, playing the god.
The story reminds me of the golden age SF in its mostly positive atitude towards science, in looking at the big picture rather than at the lives of the individuals, in tracking social movements through the lens of technological progress, in its plain, clear-cut storytelling and often unidimensional characters.The originality of the project comes from the same passion of the author that made his fantasy epic special : Tchaikovsky is really keen on his arthropods.
*** 4.65 *** "... ““You can never know. That is the problem with ignorance. You can never truly know the extent of what you are ignorant about.” ... I wanted to read this book only because it was recommended to me by a friend. I never expected to love it so much, despite never having read anything by the author. Boy am I glad I read it! I was raised on Science Fiction and Fantasy. Every week my family would receive in the mail the newest Sci-Fi publication and we would all fight over who is goin
I loved the real plausible what-ifs that came with books taking the known of Physics and Biology and building them up into strange and irregular ways, but still creating worlds and creatures whose existence and creation we could follow in a somewhat logical way, thinking that yeah, given just the right conditions, this could actually happen and what could we, us humans, do about it.
I have really struggled with this book.
I've always thought that insect and deep sea creatures have much potential as horror/ monster elements in a story.
So I was interested to read about Portia and the development of society, culture, technology, the ideas of god or 'the messenger'.
Fascinating to read about colonialism and the subsumption of other cultures and species and its parallels with human evolution.But I got bored.
I can see this is a great book and deserves its high ratings, just not from me!
I'm very interested to read this author's fantasy series still as I believe this may be more to my liking!
I audio-booked) is a highly specialised and intelligent researcher who hopes to inject Monkeys with a nanovirus to help them evolve and become individuals on a new planet.
We get to see from their PoV multiple times and over hundreds of years over the course of the book, and we follow how they evolve with the help of the virus and their own adaptations.Overall, these three perspectives (which are constantly shifting between people on the ship/planet, and satellite) work pretty well together to tell a long and gritty history of all three places.
An absolutely brilliant and fantastically imaginative piece of science fiction. This is one of the best books I've read this year.
So that sciency bit is also off, but I went along with it anyway because the evolution of all the generations of Portias was just so damn fascinating (Portia is one of the spiders, no spoiler there).Fast forward some more time and we have the POV of the supposedly last remaining humans on board the generational ship "Gilgamesh" that try to find a new home now that Earth has been destroyed.
For a book to be this great it has to tick some boxes for me.
The story takes place over tens of thousands of years.
This is the story of not only the last bastion of humanity but the rise of races of human creation.
Creations misunderstood and perhaps with more empathy than humanity.
Creations with the potential to choose empathy over ambition.
It is the story of evolution on a massive scale.
Tchaikovsky does that for species evolution in this book.
I try in my reviews not to retell the story or give away things which made the book amazing for me.
(BTW, all this info about the spiders is on Wikipedia).The story line: on another planet, Dr. Kern initiated an experiment on a new terraformed planet.
However, they are called ancestors and from the old empire or something…).But - there is a big BUT: they had built a few arks (space ships) in which they gathered the survivors and the long trip in finding another Earth begins.
(view spoiler)[I’m no biologist but I don’t think that a nanovirus could transform a species, which at the beginning had just 60k neurons (in fact, 600k, but somebody ate a 0) directly into scientists, after increasing in body size, of course...
It's got an arrogant and brilliant scientist (Doctor Avrana Kern), an ark ship full of desperate humans, who are a remainder of a dead Earth looking for a new planet, a deadly AI guardian/god, and an amazing bunch of spiders.I think it takes some skill for an author to get past my automatic heebie jeebie response to spiders and instead have me cheering their every little development, and worrying at their every setback.
I liked the recurring use of specific individuals and their descendants (Portia, Bianca and Fabian), each a little further along their evolution, thanks to the previous generations' Understandings and Doctor Kern's bioengineering experiment that starts off the whole story.
This one is not easy to write about, no it's not.
I mean, upon finishing it, it felt like someone had picked me up, and then dropped me, that's how intense the book was for me ...
:)This book.
:)This book.
It was AMAZING.
I feel that with the value of the story we are given in Children of Time, the decision might have been made to split this into, say, two books instead of the one.
Hurray to the Powers That Be for releasing it in a single, amazing volume.
This has to be my favorite book of 2017 thus far.
What a fantastic read. Truly creative. Sentient spiders anyone?Highly recommended and the best sci-fi book I've ever read.
Ah, who am I kidding? I actually read this thing weeks ago. Not a fan, sorry Carol. I may elaborate further, if I ever attempt to catch up on reviews.
Frankly it's been a very long time, perhaps a decade or more since my science fiction geek has been so nourished.
This is by no means the perfect novel, but for me it was excellent science fiction consumed at a time that I was yearning for it.
She was perfect for this book.Edited to Add: (view spoiler)[I was going to make a cheeky and clever (in my mind) reference as to how this novel titillated my science fiction erogenous zones, but a large part of this novel is about the uplift of spiders and to a lesser extent, beetles.
"This is us."One of the more interesting and well-executed sci-fi ideas, Children of Time offers a truly epic tale which packs an unexpected emotional punch. The writing is at times dry and textbook-like, but this is balanced with moments of such raw emotion that I can easily forgive this. The clinical writing serves to make the alien 'alien', but Tchaikovsky finds ways to flip this instantly, letting us see ourselves in something other in moments of startling realisation. This is a book I know will stay with me some time, and I recommend it to any fan of SFF.
Don't you love those years where you think that you have read the best books of the year already, and then in December one book comes along and BLOWS THEM ALL OUT OF THE WATER!!!!
Not because it would be any better than the written version, but because I am struggling to find the time to read at the moment with work and looking after two small children (one being a demanding teething baby).
So audio books are about the only way I am able to read at the moment.
It had absolutely everything I love in a good sci-fi, but the writing my friends...
Perhaps he felt the spider world was so alien a concept to readers that special exceptions were required, but for me the effect was distracting, and only had the off-putting effect of "othering" the spider civilization, when my empathy and investment in their narrative was fully engaged.But in the end I had so much fun reading this book it was a forgivable misstep.
It is a standout novel of this year 2015.The ideas are typical for space operas and current SF: epic timelines, long-term hibernation, post-humanity, terraforming, nano- and biotechnology, and we’ve certainly seen spiders vs humans in a quite similar opposition in Vernor Vinge’s A Deepness in the Sky. What makes this work outstanding and different, even better than Vinge’s work is the different way that the author achieves his goals.
An amazing novel following the evolution of a completely different sort of civilization and technology and its interactions with the last desperate elements of our own.A mad genius scientist at the pinnacle of Humanity's progression towards the stars claims the first terraformed planet for an ambitious experiment in nanotech uplift on monkeys.
Spiders for instance.Meanwhile, from the wreckage of human civilization and the subsequent ice age on Earth the surviving human species manages to cobble together a generation ship and leave their dying planet with a cargo of tens of thousands of cryogenically frozen colonists.
The story alternates between the perspectives of the original scientist, the quickly-evolving spiders and the human generation ship.
