https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/50660.Deadlock
Book Review  VI's back and this time it's personal. Although it appears like her cousin, Boom Boom Warshawski, a famous hockey player, slipped off the wharf, VI smells trouble lurking in the depths of his shallow grave. 4 of 5 stars to Deadlock, the second book in the VI Warshawski thriller mystery series by Sara Paretsky. When it's family, you won't stop until you find the killer. And that's exactly the path VI sets off on once she's convinced of foul play. Learning more about her cousin's li
4 of 5 stars to Deadlock, the second book in the VI Warshawski thriller mystery series by Sara Paretsky.
Learning more about her cousin's life, on and off the ice activities and last few days is not easy.
Too many people have different stories, some feel she's exaggerating the potential clues, but eventually, she finds proof and is able to narrow the path down to a specific reason.
Working in Chicago is tough, but Paretsky does a grand job at showing the risky nature of he business VI's involved in.
Learning how the ships work, what's necessary for deliveries, how the boats come in and out, etc.
Thanks for stopping by.
Sara Paretsky writes novels about a Private Investigator called V. I. Warshawski and they are really good as long as you don't take them too seriously. Our main character uses the old fashioned approach to detecting where she tends to approach the suspect and let them know that she suspects them. This can lead to all kinds of difficulty but of course she always comes out the other side smelling of roses. I enjoyed this particular one so much that I am moving straight on to the next in the series.
Also V.I.'s work on her last case dealing with the insurance industry comes in handy in this book.
She is able to put things together and I can honestly say that I loved that I was not able to guess where the story was going and who the guilty parties were.
Seriously at times I had to go downstairs and tidy up my house since I was getting second hand issues over the messiness I was reading about in this book.The writing was good, but honestly I wish that the character of Bobby would be flattened by something.
A fantastic read, exciting and difficult to stop after a few chapters each time I picked it up.
This time V.
The problem is several clues are pointing to murder - a enigmatic phone call, strange rumors being passed around by Boom Boom's new co-workers at Eudora Grain during the funeral, a new girlfriend breaking into his apartment to search for something - but no one else agrees with her.As she probes and questions and interviews, people she talked to start having accidents that kill them.
She is pondering the clues while driving, when suddenly her brakes aren't working.
As I've mentioned, these books are certainly of their time, but they are SO fun. Paretsky's research into how Great Lakes shipping works is a fascinating backdrop for this murder mystery, and there's enough badass women-can-do-it attitude and Chicago references to keep me happy (although the geography of Lakeview according to this book is slightly different unless Lincoln Avenue has moved around). Satisfying murder mystery that kept me guessing until near the end.
I first read this ages ago, long enough to have forgotten many of the details. It's even better the second time through. Paretsky is terrific!
I remember reading and enjoying the series then and have started re-reading the books now.
I remember appreciating discovering a strong, complex, female character at a time when there was a dearth of such characters in mystery novels.
Unfortunately, the dearth still remains, but I still do appreciate that V.I. Warshawski helps to fill the gap.Aside from appreciating the protagonist, I found that the other characters in the book read well.
Partesky also balances a fair amount of grittiness in the book (again often not seen with a female protagonist) with the humanness of V.I. and the other characters.
In the investigation, two more people died because of her investigation on who killed her cousin which is why I gave this book only 4 stars instead of one because this is the part that I don't really understand why did they die because the way they die is a bit stupid.
Then finally he found out that the one who killed his cousin was a owner of many boats.
The reason why I gave this book a 4 star is also because that instead of killing the owner, she reported to the police and let the police deal with it as long as he gets what he should get.
Fast summer read.
VI mysteries are hard to put down.
I am having some issues with the timing between this book set in ~1982 and her current mystery set this year give or take.
In the new installment Boom Boom supposedly helps a friend try out for the Cubs in 1989.
Obviously this is a discrepancy if he was murdered 7 years earlier.
All in all a fast paced whodunit.
I will have to go back and reread the earlier books in the series to see how/when/where the rest of the cast of characters is introduced.
Can not wait for next installment.
It is wonderful to read a book set in your home town. Even better I learned about the Port of Chicago and Great Lakes shipping. V.I. is nearly more than once in this story. Good thing she*s as tough as nails. and a great heir to Marlowe and Spade.
Listened to the audio and while I enjoyed, It did feel really dated.

An easy read and a solid mystery, undermined only slightly by an ending that felt a little too quick and tidy.
When V.I. takes on the task of closing up her Cousin Boom-Boom's estate she has the strong feeling that his death was not an accident and in the course of her queries opens up tangled mess of fraud and skullduggery in the Great Lakes shipping. industry. He persistence gets her in some serious hot water and several attempts on her life before all is said and done.
A quite good V. I. Warshawski novel in which V I investigates the death of her cousin, Boom Boom who was a famous hockey player. Everyone else thinks the death was accidental but V I is not convinced. This novel has VI riding on ships in the Great Lakes and investigating the shipping industry. The setting and plot is a little unusual which kept my interest.
V.I. is a tough broad who’s unafraid to get her hands dirty, she loves high-end Scotch, and her apartment is just as cluttered as mine. She’s kindof my patronus.Alaina finishes her review of Sara Paretsky’s Deadlock and rates it 3 stars; now she’s not sure how she’s going to spend the rest of her day, because she doesn’t have any other posts stored up. For the full review - including a slightly deeper look into a heroine she hasn’t read in almost four years - follow the link to That’s What She Read.
This has an odd sort of out-of-time awkwardness, as if she wasn’t quite sure what time period she wanted to set it in. Perhaps she just wasn’t convinced contemporary noir could actually be a thing? It managed to keep me mildly entertained while driving me crazy at the same time. Overused stereotypes, a ridiculous amount of commentary on clothes and food, and an obvious criminal. Eh.
Although I liked the adventure and the Chicago setting, I felt like at times this got a little bogged down in details or description of the ships, shipyards, and cargo. I found myself skimming those parts as they were probably necessary, but not fun to read. I still enjoyed V. I. Warsawski though, and this series of mysteries is a nice break in my day.
Maybe it is because she is sassy, maybe it is because it is set in Chicago or maybe it is her weakness for Black Label. I'm not sure, but I enjoyed this book. I am glad to know there are more of these. They will go into the category of fun palette cleanser.
I liked that the dead guy's name was Boom Boom. I didn't like that VI slept with the guy who can barely control his temper. He seemed like a jerk, even though he wasn't a murderer. I was rooting for her to hook up with the British insurance agent.
This was a fun read... I cant say it was predictable or stunningly original, but I really enjoyed it and would read more of the V.I. Warshawski novels. I like that she gets into fist fights... It is also kind of funny to read books set in an era I can remember..the 1980s!
This was a fun read... I can´t say it was predictable or stunningly original, but I really enjoyed it and would read more of the V.I. Warshawski novels. I like that she gets into fist fights... It is also kind of funny to read books set in an era I can remember..the 1980´s!
I had to read this for my English class. SO BORING. And it wasn't even that great. Everything was kind of obvious to me. Never wanna read this again. Oh, and Boom Boom? Seriously? Ridiculous.
i enjoyed the story in this one more, but the narrator was blech...it is interesting listening to/reading a book that was written nearly 30 years ago...oh how the fashion has changed!
Written thirty years ago,it seemed stale.
Note: Even though this is Book 2 in the series, it works just fine as a stand alone novel.Set in the 1990s in Chicago, Vick Warshawski is a private detective.
Vick spends a chunk of the book trying to understand the shipping manifests for the company Boom-Boom was working for.
In Book 1, Indemnity Only, Vick becomes romantically involved with a man who works at the insurance company that Vick is kinda sorta looking into.
Now, here, in this book she becomes romantically interested in a man who is hired by the shipping company she’s looking into.
I'm planning to try to see pictures online of real life versions of those events, but i'm not sure if I'll follow thru.Very telling of the sexism in the era when this was written is that Vic makes impulsive decisions, sometimes countering her own original wisdom, as reactions to the sexist treatment she receives from the cops.
I lived thru that era of sexism, and I also made reactionary decisions that I wouldn't have otherwise made, but I'm not sure if that really is well described for contemporary audiences.
And I prefer to read with an actual book in my hands.
The story was great and really confusing.
I just assumed that the story line was present tense or in the recent history like most stories and intense mysteries that I read.
As the book came to about halfway thru I released I was so wrong.
The other part of my confusion and a huge part of the mystery about shipping and legality.
The book was easy to listen to.
The person reading the story gave it a pace I enjoyed.
I am looking forward to the next book.
Well-plotted, labyrinthine mystery involving the death of an ex-hockey pro, old money vs.
new money, rival shipping conglomerates, professional dancers, blackmail and family entanglements.
I like Paretsky's protagonist, V.I. Warshawski, a remarkably progressive character for 30+ years ago.
It's important to me for you to know this next comment is not snark; it's sincere.
I enjoy the loving detail given to the descriptions of the food she eats, especially when it's something like a steak or onion rings.
In this book, Vic has a personal stake in unraveling the mystery when her cousin dies under mysterious circumstances.
Book two in the adventures of private detective V.I. Warshawski offers a thrill a minute as the murders pile up and Vic herself is in the crosshairs of unknown bad guys.
The plot starts with the death of Vic's cousin, former hockey great Boom Boom Warshawski, who was working for a grain elevator when he fell or was pushed off the dock to his death.
When his apartment is ransacked and the security guard who tried to intervene is killed, Vic is certain it's murder.
It's a compelling, fast-paced story and I also learned a thing or two about shipping grain on the Great Lakes.
HVAD BOGREOLEN GEMTE!Jeg kan huske at for 30-25 år siden, var jeg ret begejstret for Sara Paretsky. Jeg glædede mig derfor til at genlæse en af hendes bøger. Og den er skam stadig læseværdig. Javist, i nutiden ville heltinden have mobiltelefonen ved hånden, klar til at ringe efter hjælp, hver gang skurkene var ved at indhente hende. Men dengang, tilbage i sidste århundrede (thi hi - det lyder godt), klarede man sig uden. Læseværdig og glimrende krimi. Jeg må vist have gravet lidt mere i hylderne, for jeg har flere Paretsky-krimier til genlæsning.
