https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/805597.The_Narrow_Corner
Often a dinner invite by an old chum is the best : you know the host and probably the company.
MOM at his best.Inspired by Conrad...in a Malaya state (Indonesia, probably) arrive 3 "outcasts," each w a shady past : captain of the boat, a discredited doctor, and a beautiful rich boy.
~~ The catalyst is the stunning daughter of a planter...whose Danish beau is sorting stuff out...no, don't ask.MOM avoids all cliches and all sentimentality.
At end, the rich boy sighs, "Life fills me with horror..." The characters cannot escape the  unreality  of their lives or their wickedness.
There is no escape.
I personaggi che ci regalano gli scrittori, noi a nostra volta li dotiamo di caratteristiche che i loro creatori non avevano contemplato.
La prefazione di Maugham reca una sorpresa, io vi consiglierei di leggerla dopo il romanzo.Siamo in estremo oriente su un’isola dell’arcipelago malese, Il dottor Saunders sbadiglia, sono le nove del mattino.
Se non avete mai letto Maugham scoprirete di quanto raffinatezza è capace, di come sia dettagliata l’analisi fisica e psicologica dei personaggi al momento che li introduce.
Leggeva con un senso dell’umorismo tutto suo, e traeva dalle narrazioni delle imprese missionarie un sobrio godimento che avrebbe non poco stupito gli autori.
Doctor Saunders (a British trained doctor and eye specialist living in China), Fred Blake (the son of an Australian politician needing to be whisked out of public view), the skipper Nicholls and his crew are onboard a lugger.
The book is a study of strangers that meet up, spend a short time with each other and then part.In my view, it is less important to compare where the story starts and how it ends than to watch how the characters interact with each other.
I think maybe one may enjoy the story more by listening to Thorpe than by reading the text; the narration is that good.
He seems to write with no regard for what a novel is supposed to look like, and yet at the same time he has the literary equivalent of an interior clock, or perfect pitch.
Like Forster--pray tell because he's so gay?--he has an interesting kind of clinical interest in the (hetero) romances; he portrays them without communicating their passion, and yet with his own passionate interest in them as "things"/"encounters."  Another thing I love about Maughum is his treatment of eastern spirituality.
I also love Maughum's subject, the foreigner abroad.
“Breve, dunque, è la vita dell’uomo e angusto l’angolo della terra in cui egli dimora”.Il dottor Saunders è un medico oppiomane radiato dall’Albo inglese che ritiratosi nelle isole della Malesia esercita lì con successo la sua professione.
E’ piuttosto il modo in cui lui vede il mondo, scettico e cinico che neanche la morte riesce a sciogliere, come se quell’oppio rimanesse sempre davanti ai suoi occhi creando una patina attraverso cui vedere il mondo.
E’ il fatto che di questo personaggio Maugham non riesce a sbarazzarsi, come ci dice lui stesso nella prefazione, dopo averlo creato per un precedente romanzo, La luna e sei soldi.
For me, one of life's pleasures is reading or rereading Somerset Maugham. The luster of his prose never dulls; his ability to capture a character vividly always intrigues. He never does this with anything as prosaic has a physical description or "He Said," but rather by revealing a telling thought or action. Thus, it was with happy anticipation that I opened THE NARROW CORNER.  Once again Maugham carries us to the far corners of the world and introduces rare characters who meet aboard ship, a l
Once again Maugham carries us to the far corners of the world and introduces rare characters who meet aboard ship, a lugger to be exact.
The lugger is a rather sad vessel captained by Nichols, an unsavory character, happy to be escaping from his nagging missus.
Saunders finds but one other passenger on board, Fred Blake, a mysterious young man.
It seems that Nichols had been retained to take Blake to sea.
They meet a meager few islanders who are barely making a living, yet seem content with their lot.
Maugham sprinkles his narrative with descriptions of the tropical island so vivid that one can almost feel the heat.
But the potential for violence still slumbers beneath the surface, and can be triggered if the people feel they are the victims of injustice.Beyond that, WSM's novel takes the reader back to an earlier time, before WWII and the Cold War, when travel was much more demanding, and yet perhaps more charming, certainly requiring more engagement.
The characters he depicts so well, and with such an eye to humour, are the characters of that time, although they certainly exist in a somewhat different guise today.

A quick romp around the southern seas. Excellent character painting, philosophic ramblings and the ending was taut. I don't need to tell you that the writing is exquisite, do I!?Opening: All this happened a good many years ago4* The Moon and Sixpence5* Of Human Bondage4* The Razor's Edge4* The Painted Veil3* The Magician3* Ashenden4* Collected Stories3* The Narrow CornerCR The Trembling of a Leaf (ebook)
A beneficiare della sua penna eccellente sono il dottor Saunders, già protagonista di un racconto della raccolta On A Chinese Screen (1922) e lo skipper Nichols, apparso fugacemente in La luna e sei soldi (1919).Sebbene l'autore avverta fin dall'incipit che la storia narrata si colloca in un lontano passato, da vari indizi deduciamo che ci troviamo intorno agli anni Venti del Novecento nell'arcipelago indonesiano, all'epoca sottoposto alla dominazione coloniale olandese.
Вероятно поради тази причина по-динамичните (често много млади) герои успяват да му се доверят и му разказват безумните си преживявания; начият човек слуша търпеливо, обикновено е пестелив откъм думи и реакции, но накрая забива някое уникално прозрение или доста хаплива реплика съвсем на място и обикновено съвсем/ почти безпристрастно...В този случай, обаче, наблюдателят не ми беше особено симпатичен; но авторът не ни дава да разберем какви са прегрешенията му в миналото.Накратко - действието се развива в Далечния изток, един доктор по някаква случайност (а дали?) се оказва на шхуна с двама пътници - капитан (изпечен мошеник) и някакъв младеж ('убавец снажен), който упорито се опитва да скрие всякаква информация за себе си - толкова упорито, че, разбира се, става подозрителен.
La vita è breve, la natura ostile, e l’uomo assurdo; ma, stranamente, le sventure hanno per lo più i loro compensi e con un certo umorismo e una buona dose di senso comune possiamo cavarcela discretamente in questa faccenda del vivere, che dopotutto ha ben poca importanza”.Ancora una volta uno straordinario romanzo, in cui lo humour tipicamente “old England”, pervaso sì di pessimismo ma con un leggero sorriso tra le labbra, rende appassionante la lettura dalla prima all’ultima pagina.
Отново много интересна история от Моъм.
Единствената ми забележка е, че в тази книга нямаше толкова ярък образ, както в другите му книги.
Защото в неговите герои има нещо много специално, което тук го нямаше - аз ги запомням като истински хора и ги помня, все едно сме се срещали и сме си говорили и аз им се възхищавам.
Тук донякъде се беше получило с капитан Никълъс (той се появява и в "Луна и грош"), но все пак нямаше го онзи най-ярък образ, който аз чакам от Моъм и който да преживявам.
Въпреки това - ако на някой му се чете интересна и напоителна с кадри история, няма да съжалява, че е захванал с тази книга.
PAROLA DEL MESE: ACQUAE così colgo l'occasione per leggere finalmente qeusto libro.Maugham è come sempre ineguagliabile.
Anche in questo libro la sua bravura si conferma.
Purtroppo però la trama personalmente l'ho trovata noiosia fino a metà più o meno del libro, per questo le tre stelle.
L'ho addirittutra spospeo per alcuni giorni.Questo dottore che gira per le isole incontrando persone e filosofeggiando..mi ha un pò spiazzato.
Quando finisco un suo libro mi lascia sempre in subbuglio.
Non riesco a fare uan recensione come si deve.
Continuava a girarci intorno, ma quando c'è arrivato mi ha trafitto il cuore solo come lui sa fare.
Sultry, shady and sexy.
I could ponder its moral code but the exterior, the backdrop of Southeast Asia in the early twentieth century is engrossing enough.
Everyone in this book is guilty of something and no one can be trusted yet three men find themselves in each other's presence all needing something from one another.
At the end of the road lies an even more deceptive female who nearly brings all of them to their knees.
Also contains an opium smoking sequence that is so lucid and spiked with seduction you start to wonder if Maugham didn't chase the dragon a little himself.
Maugham is one of my favorite writer ever, even if sometimes, like in this novel for example, the beginning is terribly slow. But ok, it gets better and better till the end (?).Maugham é da sempre uno dei miei scrittori preferiti, anche quando, come in questo libro per esempio, parte talmente lento che quasi mi perde per strada. Ma ok, poi la storia migliora e straborda nel finale (?).
I had not heard of this book by Somerset Maugham but it is as good as all his others. He combines great story tellng, character building and debating moral issues like no other writer I have ever read.
This novel draws together three interesting personalities: Nichols, a puckish captain of a lugger who would throw you to the lions if he could make a penny in the bargain; Fred, a handsome young lad of uncertain temperament, and the ever detached and amused Dr. Saunders.
They play a lot of cribbage and Captain Nichols is surprised afresh each time that Fred wins because he fails to comprehend how one person can be so lucky.
When things fall apart towards the end of the novel and all the characters stand stark naked, metaphorically speaking, Dr. Saunders' words on the nature of the human being are comparable to the thoughts of the greatest philosophers to have walked this planet.
Dal protagonista, il Dr. Saunder, atarassico e distaccato, al Capitano Nicholls, sdentato lupo di mare (il mio preferito!) a tutti gli altri, WSM pennella sulle pagine personaggi come fossero quadri.
Veramente affabile.Mi rimane un po' un (futile) cruccio: a che genere appartiene questo romanzo?
Ci sono crimini ma non vi è una propria investigazione.
Insomma per farla breve io lo classifico come noir (una torbida storia di passione), anche se forse la definizione più appropriata è quella di romanzo filosofico.
Sembra essere infatti la morale taoista del protagonista il take home message di tutto il romanzo.Buona lettura.
Diffidate, gente, della sinossi che lo definisce "il romanzo perfetto".
Se non avete mai letto nulla di Somerset Maugham non iniziate da qui o vi ritrovereste tra le mani una storia lenta (molto lenta!), con personaggi piuttosto sconclusionati e pieni di incongruenze che dall'inizio alla fine si trascinano da un'isola all'altra del sud est asiatico senza sapere dove andare a parare.
Salvo solo le descrizioni dei paesaggi e l'ambientazione tropicale che per un attimo mi ha riportato col pensiero a Bali, Singapore e altri luoghi che ho avuto la fortuna di visitare anni fa.
Fantastic! once more with this little known gem the reader is knocked back with the reality that is the illusion of our existence. Somerset spins words into worlds that remain timeless for their reflection of humanities search for purpose.

Срещат се случайно и после се разделят – всеки да продължи живота си както намери за добре.
Не взема страната на никой от засегнатите, разказва съвсем безпристрастно, макар и през погледа на доктор Сондърз.
Макар че тя няма нужда от оправдание за действията си – постъпила е така, както й диктува нейната природа.
Нараняват ги или с цел, или съвсем случайно.
Би било добре всяко зло в света да си има обяснение, но май не е така и Никълз е идеалният пример за това.И накрая доктор Сондърз.
Харесвам неговото отношение към живота, макар че Моъм май не споделя моето мнение.
Il risultato finale è un romanzo dove tutto gira alla perfezione, una trama che scorre sicura senza salti di ritmo.
Ê lo stesso scrittore a darci la chiave di lettura verso la fine della storia, senza che ci si affanni a cercare interpretazioni, ed è una chiave perfettamente coerente con lo stile del dottor Saunders/Maugham: “La vita è breve, la natura ostile, e l'uomo assurdo; ma, stranamente, le sventure hanno per lo più i loro compensi e con un certo umorismo e una buona dose di senso comune possiamo cavarcela discretamente in questa faccenda del vivere, che dopo tutto ha ben poca importanza.”
I wanted to read something by Somerset Maugham, purely out of curiosity, or I guess to fulfill a personal cultural requirement.
It wasn't the characters themselves that I was attracted to, certainly not the doctor who initially appeared to be the main character, but somehow the voice of the writer himself.
And after a while, I wasn't even sure there was a main character.
When introducing a new character he might write "he was the kind of man who made you feel at ease, you were impressed with his calmness" or something like that.
Whilst stuck on another little island, waiting for a passage home, he meets the slightly dodgy Captain Nichols, and young Australian man Fred, who are randomly sailing around the islands for no obvious reason they're willing to share.
Captain Nichols suffers with some kind of indigestion, and pursuades Fred to give Dr Saunders a lift, so he can get some medical attention on the way.
There's a lot about their sailing, and then they get to the island of Kanda, where they meet Danish Erik and a Scandinavian/British family of plantation owners, and things get a bit complicated, but in a kind of natural, non-sensationalist kind of way.
There is a romantic triangle, an act of violence, and the revelation of past sins.
In terms of action, this is slow to get going, but you don't read Maugham for action, you read for closely observed characters and solid descriptive background, and you get both here.
It was a pleasure to immerse myself in this and take it at its own slow rhythms.
(I read this because I recently saw a 1930s movie, Isle of Fury, which is, in theory, based on this book, but the beyond the setting and the basic triangle plot, the two have almost nothing in common.)
I love Maughm, his observations, ascerbic wit and devil-may-care protagonist, that is usually the one who makes all the observations that pull all the threads together.
This book however, bogged down in character depictions that were both repetitious, and over sentamentalistic.
He did pull it off however in some aspects-he is after all Maughm, which is why I did not give up on the book when it slowed for me, and the occasional barb by the Dr. gave hope that it would pick up.
It wasn't for naught that I waited it out as the final chapters pulled everything together nicely for me and I never saw the ending coming.
There's something in Maugham and his writing.
In spite of all these years since I first read him, Maugham is one of those rare authors with that power of narration one seldom comes across.
In a 'Narrow Corner', we have a doctor, a crooked captain of a steamer and a enigmatic Australian on the run from some dark kept secret travelling together on a steamer in the Pacific.
While the story is nothing to gush about, Maugham's razor sharp insights into the human life is what kept my attention.
Un noir indolente, ambientato in luoghi esotici ed affascinanti, dove le persone vivono immerse in una lentezza e in una futilità che avvincono e annebbiano il lettore.
C'è un dottore ormai radiato dall'albo nonostante la sua bravura, a causa della dipendenza dall'oppio.
C'è un furfante che ha accettato senza domande né remore un incarico "particolare" giusto per sfuggire alla moglie (e qui abbiamo anche la nota comica).
C'è un ragazzo di buona famiglia che fugge da qualcosa di orribile e molti altri personaggi approdati - chi in un modo, chi in un altro - in questo mondo ovattato.
