https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1170158.The_Earthsea_Trilogy
The claustrophobic atmosphere of The Tombs of Atuan, the dry, draining, feeling that pervades The Farthest Shore, the psychological sophistication of A Wizard of Earthsea.The series as a whole strikes me as being a lot more philosophical than most children's books while at the same time they remain traditional Bildungsroman with their theme of growing into adult estate.In contrast to much of the fantasy that I don't remember as well, there is not much here about swords, or bravery in combat, or the power of magic to destroy medium sized cities, rather the emphasis is on avoiding the need to do those things and on the principal characters coming to terms with themselves.
The story is from Ged's point of view so he seems more human than the classical representation of the wizard seen from afar as a powerful figure cloaked in mystery.
The second book changes the point of view from Ged to Tenar "The Eaten One".
This trilogy is so full of imagery and meaning that I would recommend it to anyone that loves a truly fine fantasy.
I would also recommend you read the accompanying Tales from Earthsea and the final book in the series The Other Wind.
The first book "A Wizard of Earthsea" follows the story of a young boy named Ged (he has a bunch of other names, but he's Ged) and his adventures as he discovers he is a wizard, goes off to a wizard academy to train, discovers he will be the most powerful wizard ever, and is inextricably linked to a diabolical evil that will one day plague the world of Earthsea (sound like anything?) The second book, "The Tombs of Atuan," follows Ged into his middle ages as he journeys into the underground catacombs of Atuan to retrieve something of great importance.
This is the edition I bought as a wee lad, I only managed to finish A Wizard of Earthsea due to foolishness of the young.
Recently I have finished reading all three books of the original trilogy so I thought I'd link this book to my review of the individual volumes:A Wizard of Earthsea - My reviewIn which we meet young goat herder Duny soon to be named Ged and nicknamed Sparrowhawk.
(spoiler!)The Farthest Shore - My reviewIn which we meet young prince Arren who shows up on Roke Island to enlist Ged's help to stop an evil thing that is sucking every good thing out of Earthsea.
Having previously read Ursula Le Guin's Left Hand of Darkness, I was a little leery of starting on the Earthsea Trilogy.
I found Le Guin's style in Left Hand of Darkness to be very difficult to slog through for me and, while her ideas and story were very well crafted, I did not enjoy my reading experience at all.My experience with the Earthsea Trilogy couldn't have been more different from that of Left Hand of Darkness.
This was a fun trilogy to read and I will continue the series with the final volume and the short story collection that Le Guin has also written.
I re-read this masterpiece trilogy on a recent Buddhist retreat in New Zealand.
It became something of a spiritual road-map for my inner journey.
Each book seemed to address, in mythic proportions, the struggles I was having with being an heir to my actions or with feeling bound by dusty habits.
Admittedly, there were less dragons in New Zealand, despite what Peter Jackson might lead you to believe.
Ged - the protagonist- is a humble, damaged man who, besides being a phenomenally powerful mage, is an astonishingly grounded human figure: like us, he struggles with fear, pride, loyalty, friendship and the fragility of life.
Чете ми се фентъзи! Ама не какво да е фентъзи. Погледът ми се спира на Урсула Ле Гуин и нейната „Землемория”, или по-точно, на пълното издание от ик. „Бард”. Прочетете ревюто на "Книжни Криле":https://knijnikrile.wordpress.com/201...
This volume contains A Wizard of Earthsea, The Tombs of Atuan, and The Farthest Shore--the first three novels Le Guin set in Earthsea and the story of the great wizard Ged. I found it a bit slow at times, although always beautiful and always interesting and Le Guin's magic possesses a smooth self-awareness of its own philosophy that makes it especially interesting as a reader to encounter.
The elegance and mystery of The Tombs of Atuan was my favorite of the three, although the ending of The Farthest Shore was absolutely perfect and really brought me back after stumbling through some of the final book of the volume.
dsfsdlkfjalsdkfj
One of the first fantasy series I read. Love going to another world.
(I was just too lazy to find all three books and review them separately.) They go together because they share a common protagonist, the erstwhile goatherd known as Sparrowhawk, whose true name is Ged.The first book, A Wizard of Earthsea, deals with Ged as boy and young man, struggling to come to grips with his power.
The last book, The Farthest Shore, follows Ged on his most dangerous quest of all, with only the young prince Arren to help him, the fate of the world resting in the balance.Ged is one of my favorite characters, from any book, ever.
favorite children fiction
*Special Content only on my blog, Strange and Random Happenstance during It's a Kind of Magic (April 2017)A Wizard of EarthseaDate I read this book: December 2nd, 2016★★★On the island of Gont a young boy nicknamed Sparrowhawk is born with innate magical abilities.
This book was written in 1968 and feels like the origin of all origin stories for modern science fiction and fantasy with the young boy's journey into manhood.
What I find fascinating with this decision of Le Guin's is that she takes a character that we know well after reading A Wizard of Earthsea and makes him mysterious again.
Then, when the climactic battle comes the reader has nothing invested in the outcome.In this novel, Ursla LeGuin has succeeded in making dragons and wizards seem tedious and boring, which is no small feat.
She keeps him a prisoner, then becomes his ally, then they escape and put the two pieces of the jewelry together, and all is right with the world.In the final book, Sparrowhawk is now the head of the wizard school, and a prince comes to tell him all that's going wrong with the world - apparently there is less magic, and people don't seem to care about anything.
I wanted a reason to care about Ged in any of these books, and every once in a while there would be a page or a paragraph that would make a little light go on inside my head; almost immediately, however, the next sentence was back to LeGuin's bland style and I found myself sighing all over again.
My third eye did not open in the process of reading these books, which is a shame because I think Ms. LeGuin and I would probably have a good time together if we had a chance to talk.Again, interesting people do not always make interesting writers.
Aangezien dit drie boeken zijn in 1, maak ik per boek een mini review:Machten van Aardzee: Heerlijke ouderwetse fantasie.
Ik miste wel een kaartje van het Aardzee gebied, ik vind het fijn om me soms even te oriënteren waar in de fantasiewereld we zitten.De Tomben van Atuan: Weer een fantasierijk verhaal met in het centrum de mysterieuze tomben van Atuan.
Ik had graag meer achtergrond gehad, al vind ik het al knap dat le Guin geen 500 pagina's nodig heeft om een goed verhaal te vertellen (in tegenstelling tot veel andere fantasy series).Koning van Aardzee: Het meest deprimerende verhaal van de drie.
Ged is weer terug en heeft het geschopt tot Archimagus.

Poetic and beautifully imaginative tale. Leguin writes simply and elegantly. She does not waste anyone's time with fluff, yet somehow manages to achieve a depth to her characters and her stories. I wish I could figure out how she does that
Read it many times. It's been one of my favourite since the childhood.
Context seemed to be so interesting, and I've heard so much about Le Guin. But I ended up getting bored so fast. And I hated the fact that magic was for boys only. So few women, too.
Read the first one and it exhausted me so much that I need to take a break. Idk if it's the translation or the writing style but... how this story is written makes it very hard for me to get into.
My second time reading it in 9 years, I found that it still held up well.The narration often takes on a matter of fact tone, almost taking for granted as perfectly natural all the magic and customs of the land, and the novels read like Icelandic sagas in the way the stories are told like old myths and legends.
Because these characters do not know the extent of Ged’s powers, the reader too is kept in suspense.(view spoiler)[One loose end that I keep thinking of is: what happens to Jasper?
Because light needs darkness."The most rambling plotline of the three, and Ged seems a bit like Tom Riddle, just plain power hungry.
More likely to be a dark lord than an archmage.
Also, the embracing the shadow ending seems like a cop-out.
Too many stories fail to deal with the problem of evil in a realistic way.
(The Tombs of Atuan) "Humans are more powerful than the dark gods they created."Despite obvious flaws, my favorite of the three.
And I feel a bit cheated that Ged didn't die in the end.
And I'm not really sure I want to see the magic come back.
Герои, казалось мне, живут так, как будто им написали так жить: никакого выбора, никаких душевных метаний не описано, вообще практически ничего не описано.Насколько я разочаровалась тогда, настолько я влюблена в Волшебника сегодня.
Как будто весь мир, все Земноморье находится под своим Роком и знает, что всему свое время.
Его сила не только открыла портал и впустила Тень, его сила как раз и отбросила эту Тень.Пожалуй, для меня это книга-откровение.
Читать и кивать-да, да, все так, все именно так.Я восхитилась, когда поняла, что Дяченко в своей Vita Nostra вдохновлялись именно Волшебником, и так неожиданно звучит теперь и сама Vita Nostra, и Волшебник Земноморья.Это звук, сказанный солнечным лучом, брызгами фонтанов и плеском волн.
I don’t know how many times I’ve re-read it over the years, but there has been plenty...There’s a lot of nostalgia surrounding this book.
I remember wondering why they had put adult books among the children’s / teen’s books.
(All five copies of it...)It was the book that opened the door to my passionate love for fantasy books, paving the way for Tolkien...So yes, there’s a lot of nostalgia and feelings connected to this book.
This is a book always present in my classroom and I try to entice my students to pick it up.
It’s one of those books you just wants everyone else to love.
Usually I'm not a fan of sentimental dialogue and vague moral lessons, which turn an otherwise excellent story into a spiritual soapbox and/or allegory.
(*ahem* Chronicles of Narnia, The Golden Compass *ahem*)The Earthsea Trilogy is no exception.I would say it's an inherent flaw of the fantasy Bildungsroman--goodly advice, exhaustingly serious, a bit predictable (light vs.
The genre is risky because it can easily push the allegory/soap box too far and insult the reader's intelligence.
If that happens, the characters seem like talking boxes enacting the spiritual message of the story, rather than three-dimensional people.But, when the story is well done, it's epic and memorable.
The first book in this trilogy was published in 1968, 2nd in 1970, and 3rd in 1972.
Highly recommended as must read books, I had no idea what to expect.
Written way before Eragon or Harry Potter or any of the wizard/dragon books I loved reading this trilogy.
Each book is very different from the others and they all were wonderful.
The last book, The Farthest Shore, even took me into spituality and the meaning of life/death and light/dark.
Without meeting the people I have met through my writing for children, I may have never stumbled upon this trilogy.
Definitely recommend!!!
At first, I wasn't sure if I liked The Earthsea Trilogy. I kept believing I did not, and yet I continued reading. After finishing the first two books, I'm a Le Guin convert. Her writing style is far different from anything I've encountered before. Her sentences are sparse, and as my best friend described, "leave emotional space between the lines." Le Guin includes no word that is not necessary. If you're sick and tired of 700 page fantasy novels that have a map of Europe in the front, try Earthsea. You'll be pleasantly surprised, and hopefully inspired like me.
Not bad, but rather dull. Nowhere near as exciting as the blurb suggests, but I have no objections to studying it once uni starts up again in September. As far as reading for pleasure goes, I would probably have dropped this after the first book. The second book of the trilogy- The Tombs of Atuan- was perhaps the best. The decriptions of the Labyrinth, etc, were chilling and effective. Characterisation on the whole, however, was somewhat poor. Overall, the blandest fantasy I've come across.
I had to read Ursula LeGuin last year for class and I think I'm sort of bitter towards her just because I hated the class so much. Honestly, this was a good book, and I know if I read it in my high school or grade school days I would have been just all about it. As it was, I felt just out of its reach- like I was just a little too old, and have read a few too many books of this ilk. Excellent storytelling, though.
