https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11312.Over_Sea_Under_Stone
this opening book follows the Drew children on summer holiday in Cornwall as they hurtle breathlessly from place to place, ancient map in hand and Arthurian treasure awaiting them as they skillfully avoid the forces of evil.this is probably my 3rd or 4th time reading this book, and this particular time found me more amused than impatient.
I appreciated the often ambiguous menace of the forces threatening the protagonists, in particular the idea of Evil wearing a pleasant, cheerful face while bringing you sandwiches or tucking you in for bedtime.
ariel is exactly this great:i had never read this series, but had always wanted to.
obviously, there are going to be comparisons to that narnia series - british siblings shuttled off to a spooky house with secret passageways behind a wardrobe with an eccentric older relative and some christian mythology thrown in for funs.but.even better than narnia, this reminded me of my very favorite series of children's books by peggy parish (but not her amelia bedelia stuff - that just paid the rent).
the better series of books were the ones featuring liza, jed, and bill (the only twins that are not evil).
This is a short yet fast-paced, exciting and thrilling middle-grade novel, definitely much more amazing than I initially thought.
I was happily surprised (and by surprised I mean snagged hook line and SINKER by this brilliance).It starts out feeling very Narnia-esque; a family siblings go to stay with an eccentric uncle professor and then the kids discover a passage behind the wardrobe.
Once the kids found the map in the attic, it felt very Boxcar Children-esque (my favorite books when I was a kid).
If you put Narnia, the Boxcar Children, and Indiana Jones into a blender, this would be the amazing smoothie that comes out.
The first book of my all-time favorite children's fantasy series. Yes Harry Potter is amazing, The Chronicles of Prydain is exceptional, Redwall is pretty fantastic. But for my money, Susan Cooper's The Dark is Rising series ranks as my #1 favorite. It has everything - an Arthurian theme, witches, the Holy Grail, Celtic Mythology, fun characters, and the writing is just superb. It's no wonder these books garnered a ton of awards because it really does stand out like a shimmering diamond in the children's fantasy genre. I can't recommend this series enough.
A Nancy Drew-esque adventure in which some kids with the last name Drew attempt to find the Holy Grail.
"Another book on the Arthur legend?" I groaned before commencing a hearty dismissive snore.
I guess I didn't read the description close enough on Goodreads or on the back of the book.
This was not the fantasy novel I was looking for.These days reading about three English kids romping around the Cornwall seaside in search of King Arthur's grail is just not my cup of tea.
Don't get me wrong, it's a damn fine book!
Now though, there's a plethora of much more fun fantasy to be had.
They run up against a contained cast of characters all bent on acquiring the Grail for unspecified, but no doubt nefarious reasons—and they don’t think twice about stooping to the level of threatening children.Cooper obviously understands the ingredients needed to capture a child’s imagination.
I devoured juvenile mystery series as a boy—Hardy Boys, Nancy Drew, and Encyclopedia Brown were among the best—and I could see myself enjoying this dimension of Over Sea, Under Stone.Alas, much like the movies this book resembles, the relentless, positive portrayal of the children and their adventure is far from satisfying.
There is certainly plot here, in the form of adventure, but the story itself leaves much to be desired.I’m reading this as part of The Dark is Rising Sequence omnibus.
This time through, I noticed a bit more than that; despite the fact that it is much lighter than the later books in tone, for the most part, there are moments of darkness and fear: the moment on the top of the cliff with the standing stones, Barney captured, Barney in the cave, the last few pages before the epilogue… Because of that link to Arthur, because of the figure of Merriman, the seriousness that we see later in the story is still there.
There's a real sense of ominous danger in parts of it, and yet the writing also brings across a feeling of childhood, summer vacations and sunburns and going to see the sea.All in all, reading it now and knowing what the rest of the series is like, I look for the hints and things that will connect up, later.
It's interesting how often he knows or intuits things which seem hidden from everyone else.Over Sea, Under Stone isn't my favourite book of the sequence, but it's still worth reading if you can get into it for the light it sheds on the later books.Now, onto The Dark Is Rising itself!
And the NLS has been busily digitizing the collection (only about a decade late) and I could swear I saw these books go up .
So I snagged this first one and put it on my handheld and trotted off to groom the dog.And then I turned on the book.And it was not my narrator.I remember her very clearly: she was British, a contralto.
She read this book to me a good twenty times between the ages of eight and thirteen, and she was all that is right and proper.And sometime in the last few decades, the NLS re-recorded the books and reissued the titles.
This is the first book of Susan Cooper’s Dark is Rising cycle.
The Dark is Rising is actually the second book in the series, and much like another famous English fantasy series **coughNarniacough**, the second book is the better one; though in that case you get in to written chronology versus story chronology, and the conversation becomes complicated.
I also noticed many similarities to another beloved English fantasy book from my childhood, The Box of Delights.
Since Box of delights came out 30 years before Over Sea, Under Stone, it’d be hard not to see the influence of the former on the latter.
I really enjoyed this story. I know that it is aimed a young reading group, but it was exciting and fun. There was enough mystery and danger to keep me wanting to listen. I am looking forward to the next book in the series to see what is next in store for the Drew children and their Great Uncle Merry.
Jane, Simon, and Barney, go with their parents to Cornwall to visit their Uncle Merry.
The forces of Dark want the map too for its unlimited power and with the help of Uncle Merry it is a mad race to see who can find it first.
The threesome are not sure who is good or bad and their innocent trust oftentimes leads them to dangerous situations.
For instance, Jane should be telling Uncle Merry, Simon, and Barney about the vicar and his interest in the map but she doesn't because she doesn't think it is important.
The parents in the story are oblivious to what is happening with their kids and the quest.
It was one of my favorites as a child, so I just recently bought the boxed set to work my way through it again.Over Sea, Under Stone is, if I recall correctly, not really part of the main series, being more of an introduction to the war between Light and Dark, with few of the characters appearing in the later books, except of course for Merriman Lyon.
I remember even as a kid thinking that this was the least interesting book in the series, and rereading it as an adult, it was decent light entertainment, but very much a fairly typical children's adventure.
(The runner-up would be The Grey King, set in the autumn around Samhain.) So I imagine that a few more reviews of these books will be added to my total before the end of the year...I read Over Sea, Under Stone in one go, this time.
Why --But it's probably best not to ask those questions of this book, the earliest and least subtle.
There are many subtle touches which I love later in the sequence, but this book is decidedly less mature.
I wanted to read it because of the recent movie, "The Seeker" which is based upon the second book in the series, "The Dark Is Rising".
I also wanted to read this series because two of the books have won Newbery Medals/Honors.
The ending was a slight letdown, but I didn't feel as if it took away from the book, it was realistic.
I'd recommend this book for young readers, as a young adult, it wasn't as thrilling as it might have been if I had been younger when I read it.*Taken from my book reviews blog: http://reviewsatmse.blogspot.com/2008...
Great kids' adventure story. Thanks to Orinoco Womble (tidy bag and all) for the recommendation. I believe she said it was similar to the Narnia stories, but with a vague good vs. evil theme rather than deliberately Christian based. I was thrilled by the scenes where the kids were chased by the bad guys, particularly when they were creeping through caves and crawling over rocks on the Cornish coast. My kind of excitement! I will read the sequels.
This book is the first of a series. It has a weird family resemblance to the Chronicles of Narnia: some children explore a mysterious old house while on holiday by the Cornish seaside. There is even a wardrobe, albeit not one that functions as a conduit to a magical world. The book seems to start off somewhat slowly but builds up to a very tense climax near the end, as Simon, Jane and Barnabas Drew grapple with the powers of evil aided by Great-Uncle Merry and a lovable dog named Rufus.
2.0 to 2.5 stars. A well written, original fantasy story. While written for a younger audience, it is in no ways condescending to them. First in the "Dark is Rising " sequence, this book introduces readers to the ages old battle between the Light and the Dark. Not a bad read.
These three children aren't 'bad', in fact they are the 'heroes' of the book, but the problem of the time it was written (60s) is that a lot of people (clearly including this author) held many of these prejudices themselves and had no issue writing these into their own works.This is a story following three kids who go on an adventure to the coast and they stay in a very old house owned by their Great Uncle Merry.
There is much to like about Cooper's writing, her characters and sense of place are strong but deep within the veins of the words is this sense of a connection with our history and heritage.
Not only that but much like The Weirdstone of Brisingamen, there is this search and connection with an ancient past that I love so dearly.
There is also a deep sense of fear here in the character of Mr Hastings and the battle between good and evil here is not a simple one nor one that speaks down to the child reader.
They even have a borrowed dog, a big bouncy mutt called Rufus who apparently "came with the house!" We're never actually told how old the kids are, I figured probably between 10 or 11 and 15, the cut-off point for getting all excited about treasure maps and legends of the Maltese Falcon sort.
never told--and nothing in between.And of course the adult me figured Uncle Merry out in the first chapter, the first time he refused to answer a direct question and put that faraway Eagle-on-a-crag look on his face.It strikes me that I probably only read this once, back in the day.
Aided by their mysterious Great-Uncle Merry, Simon, Jane and Barney can only depend on themselves, as familiar faces turn out to hide menacing intent, and the sunny shores of their vacation spot conceal unexpected dangers.For readers of modern young adult fantasy fiction, many elements of "Over Sea, Under Stone" will seem familiar, but this is truly one of the originals.
As a result, many readers will perceive that "Over Sea, Under Stone" is essentially an introduction to the battle between The Light and The Dark, and it is the succeeding volumes - which include both a Newbury Honor winner and a Newbury Award winner - that truly make this series worthy of the esteem in which it is held.
I don't know how many times I've read this book, but it's a good candidate for the argument in the Feedback forums for sorting out multiple read dates -- I must've read it at least twenty times, I suppose, and one day I'm going to run out of editions on GoodReads to shelve.
I think I used to say that as this is the most childish book of the sequence, it can be skipped, but honestly, I don't know that it can.
Dark Is Rising sequence – comprising Over Sea, Under Stone (1965), The Dark Is Rising (1973), Greenwitch (1974), The Grey King (1975) and Silver on the Tree (1977) – is perhaps the most distinguished of the mythological fantasy series which following the success of J R R Tolkien's work were published in a spate during the 1960s and 1970s.
The series owes much to Anglo-Saxon and Celtic Mythology and clearly addresses the Matter of Britain but also uses such sf tropes as Alternate History, Time Paradoxes, Timeslips and time stasis the final volume features a notable Technofantasy sequence in which series cast members assemble en route to the last battle on a railway train traversing various realities.
My 8 year old son would have given this book a higher rating I am sure.
But I had trouble making it through this book for some reason.
From the too-drawn-out events that happened in the story, to the maddening way the children had of foolishly doing the exact wrong thing time and again, to the author's attempt to utterly drown the readers in adverbs...I was ready for this book to be over when we were barely halfway through.
That being said, it wasn't a particularly BAD book....it just missed so many ripe opportunities to be more exciting than it was!
But I don't have high hopes of being captivated by the following books anymore than I was with this one.
This is a great kid's book.
It's a really typical story in that the kids find a treasure map and get to it.
I'm also a fan of Arthurian legend, so it was neat to have that side of the story as well.The real thing that made me like this book was that I was actually worried for them.
I was yelling at the kids in the book to keep their voices down, or to hide the map, because I was so concerned that the bad people hunting the treasure were nearby.
I've been wanting to read this series for many years and the book is a perfect escape from stressful uni study!
I really enjoyed the brisk, engaging writing that vividly described this lovely part of England and I wanted more than anything to follow Barney, Jane and Simon as they moved from harbour to rocky outcrops to little bays and beaches in search of the Grail.It helps if you're familiar with the Arthurian legend and Merlin, but really anyone can enjoy this timeless adventure story and, let's face it, any book that features a group of children, a rented holiday house and a dog are destined to an adventure or three.
If you've read too many Bookclub tomes or simply want to rediscover your inner child, come in here and enjoy.
Books become classics for good reason, and while this starts slowly, and yes, it's all a little Famous Five in its dialogue and middle-class situations (which might be off-putting to some), this quickly became a book that I couldn't put down.
I love books which give you a sense of unease, where everyday people are hiding dark motivations and nobody can be trusted.
I also love books that bring legend, folklore and myth into (almost) contemporary situations, as Alan Garner does so expertly with The Owl Service and Elidor.
So to read one built around Arthurian legend was perfect.
I still can't quite believe I missed these books when I was a kid.
They are so up my alley.This is the first book in the series, which I didn't know until I'd already read the second one (The Dark is Rising).
But really that's ok because this book involves an entirely different set of kids.One of the things I like best about these books is that they stand the test of time.
They don't feel particularly dated, which is really nice.And I also like all three of the children in this book.
Still making my way through the entire series.
