https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6066819-best-friends-forever
The storyline was beyond stupid, Addie fat girl odd ball loses weight reunites with former best friend Fox News Weather girl Valerie who abandoned her after Addie told her parents that Valerie was raped by Dan the Jock who everyone including Addie had a crush on.
These are all run on sentences but represents clearly the ridiculousness of this story.
Just a Run on hot mess.
Not everything I read needs to be deeply meaningful.
But this book pushed the limits of what I am willing to tolerate, even if it's hot as hell outside, and I'm just looking for something easy.The underlying storyline here is so rich -- there's a childhood friendship between two girls that went awry.
Weiner has the opportunity to dig deeply into this kind of ultimate betrayal, but instead, she chooses to turn the book into a caper.
I love Weiner's narrative voice, and I think she has become established enough to shake herself free from the limitations of the chick-lit genre.
Best Friends Forever is still not a conventional, “She lost weight and everything was GREAT!” story, but there are enough similarities to make me feel really, really unhappy and disappointed.Finally, Weiner had to know that she would be inviting comparisons to Judy Blume’s Summer Sisters (The books have the following in common: a devil-may-care mother, a neglected child of privilege, an outcast best friend, and a WELL-KNOWN SEASIDE VACATION SPOT ON THE EASTERN SEABOARD).
A horrible rape occurs so Valerie hits the guy with her car then runs away to Key West with Addie?
And then we watch as Valerie takes advantage of Addie, spends all her money, and acts as if nothing happened and of course they're Bffs again because this is mindless chick lit!!!
Oh and did I mention that Valerie ALSO has an affair with someone?
Please, how belittling can you get?Overall an unbelievable, nonsensical book that made me feel no connection to any of the characters.
But it's okay because in the end Addie has a baby (from her older married "boyfriend") and ends up with the creepy cop.
Weiner tells the story from a few characters' points of view, but there is nothing signifying the change except for a new chapter number.
I had to backtrack several times to get my bearings on where I was in the story and it jolted me out of the novel's flow.Addie Downs, the main character, is a giant cliche, pun intended.
I doubt that his encounter with Val and Holy Merry would transform him into a respectable and decent human being who knows right from wrong, even with the flashback to the defining moment in Dan's relationship with his mother where she tells him that she's given up on him.
Adelaide Downs, the main character, really has only ever had one friend, but something happened between her and this friend during their senior year of high school.
I really think I'd have liked this book more if Addie had had more friends in her life up to the point where the book starts (late in the evening after a high school reunion that Addie doesn't attend).
Addie doesn't even have a dog!
Although Addie is close to her parents and brother, tragic things have already happened to all three of them when the book starts.
The characters aren't well developed and Weiner tries to pack too much plot into the book.
It felt like too much was explained, rather than shown to us.
I didn't like the Valerie character and didn't think she redeemed herself - she just came off as unlikable and you wonder why Addie let her back into her life.
I also disliked the ending - it felt thrown together, like a cop out and was way too cutesy.
I've long been a fan of Weiner's work but I wish I hadn't spent the money on this book - definitely not worth it.
It's been three years since I read a Jennifer Weiner book, and Best Friends Forever reminded me exactly why.I know there are people out there that buy everything she writes, but after my second experience with a chick-lit book that lacked any real imagination or characters I could relate to, it'll probably be longer than three years before I pick up another one.
This book should have been right up my alley, but it just wasn't.In Best Friends Forever, Addie and Valerie were best friends all through their childhood until a big incident their senior year of high school that left them not speaking to each other.
The two head off but there could be trouble ahead as Chief of Police Jordan is on their tale and desperate to find out exactly what happened that night of the school reunion.Best Friends Forever is Jennifer Weiner’s seventh book but is only the first I’ve read of hers.
When I’m reading a book I like a little realism and Best Friends Forever really lacked that.The one thing I think the book did excel at were the flashbacks to Addie and Valerie’s childhood, they were incredibly well written and I hugely enjoyed all of the flashback chapters.
Addie came across as such a whiny loser, very negative and depressing, spent her life dwelling on the past and the Big Mysterious Tragedy that had separated her from her high school friend Valerie (with whom she seemed rather unhealthily obsessed) instead of getting on with life and making new friends.
At the same time she was so self-absorbed and focussed on all the things that had gone wrong in her life that she was completely incapable of realising that Val hadn't exactly had a happy life either - because oh, she's thin and pretty, everything must be perfect for her, not like pooor meeeee, people at school called me faaat, waaah.
Jennifer Weiner, what happened?
This made my previous three horrible reads (Swan Thieves, In the Kitchen and The Unnamed) look like highbrow literature.
I guess it can always get worse.***Also, as a TV meteorologist I must say that I am dismayed, annoyed, pissed off at the characterization of TV Talent and meteorology in this book.
Valerie is NOT A METEOROLOGIST.
We do not "read the weather".
We do not deliver the weather from atop mechanical bulls.
I really wish Weiner had done a teensy bit of research.
I'm still pissed about it.***
The story is tired, the humor is tired (and sadly embarrassing) the characters are super tired (and boring) and the dialogue is just really bad and unrealistic.
The reason I picked up this book was the good reviews I read about it here on Amazon.
I normally pick my books after reading positive reviews in the LA Times, NY Times or the New Yorker.
I didn't feel for the characters and the way they interacted with each other was just simply unrealistic.
There are way too many better books out there that are worth your time and money.
Jennifer Weiner's latest novel focuses on two women (Val & Addie) who, when they were young girls, swore to each other that they would be Best Friends Forever.
Something happens at the reunion and she shows up at Addie's door hoping her best friend forever would help her out of trouble.
Weiner goes back to when the girls are younger to tell you what happened and when it happened.
Falling in love with the guy is what makes Chicklit Reading so fun, so that is disappointing.Overall though, I still love Weiner's writing style.
Best Friends Forever-Jennifer Weiner- I wasn’t especially fond of this book while reading it, and the more I thought about it after I finished the less I liked it.
The book follows two stories, one in the present day and the other is the tale of our characters growing up.
On the surface it’s a funny little romp and a look into growing up in a small town.
However, you start to dig just a little and it becomes this very ugly book.
The main message is that fat people can never be happy unless they loose weight.
I admit that I typically hide my reading of Jennifer Weiner books because I am sure I will be mocked.
By whom I am not sure but never-the-less the fear is there.But then I read an article on npr (http://www.npr.org/templates/story/st...) just before I went to 1/2 Price Books and I felt proud to buy some Chick Lit and fight the man.So the book is ok.
I'll probably keep reading some Weiner and I may even admit to some other "chick lit" reads that I have hidden on my bookshelf.
Go Chick Lit!
At times it's downright painful to read about her, because you just sit there nodding your head and agreeing with everything.The friendship between Addie and Val is equally painful, for anyone who's ever had a "best friend." Again, it's all too easy to identify with Addie being the awkward, overweight, unpopular best friend of the perfect, beautiful, popular girl.
Instead, he spent more time thinking about the Nighty-Night Lady than Addie.Despite all of this, and despite the fact that the "on the run" plot didn't really go anywhere, it was an entertaining read once I got into it.
She rather predictably goes on a diet and becomes a socially-acceptable bmi, and at least Weiner (who usually avoids cliches like these) doesn't suddenly give Addie a perfect life - though it's close.
Her erstwhile best friend, Valerie Adler, starts off as a weird, out-of-place kid with a seriously messed-up home life (and the fact that Addie completely misses that fact is one thing that really annoyed me about her character).
She makes out with people to get things and avoid consequences.
I'd have liked Addie to be less pathetic and Valerie to be less psychotic.
I don't think that it's a good sign when an event occurs in the novel and I would yell out what will happen later in the book based on the information that I just received.
Okay, two girls meet when they are nine years old and become best friends.
Fast forward 15 years and it's time for the high school reunion and the two best friends haven't seen each other or spoken since high school.
The weather girl shows up at her former friend's house late at night with a story that she needs help because she MIGHT have killed one of their classmates at the reunion.
As I read Best Friends Forever, there was constantly several questions in my head.
Addie was a character that I loved and was rooting for the whole time.
Because, as you continued to read Best Friends Forever, you began to find out some things that didn't make her look like that great of a person.
Throughout, I was hoping that he would come to his senses and admit his feelings for Addie.
Overall, Best Friends Forever is a book that I can say nothing but fantastic things about.
I really wanted to like "BFF", I really did, but I just didn't think it ever got above the average rating.
Addie was a great character but she was also the only complete character...it was like the author only figured out bits and pieces of the other characters and figured that was enough.
Primarily these parts were chapters about Addie, her family, her past, and her quest to be happy with herself...almost all other sections just missed the mark.
I'm willing to give this author one more chance, but if that's a flop, too I think I'll give up.
I have read just about everything this author has published and have really enjoyed her work.
The things I liked: the humor, the character Addie and the emotional account of a heavy person dealing with addiction to sweets and how they manage to stop the binges and get their weight under control.
I also thought the way Jordan falls for Addie and immediately knows she is the one was a bit hokie.
Still, I flew through this book like I have with her others.
Even if it wasn’t her best, I still think Weiner is one of the best authors of Chick Lit.
I feel like the only person in the world who thinks Jennifer Weiner is just ok. Basically, I find her protagonists to be pathetic. Couldn't a full-figured heroine be a heroine and not a perpetual victim? Just one time? Besides being totally far-fetched and starring the usual overweight pathetic girl, the secondary plot was a disturbing love story. Who wants to see the main character wind up with a drunk stalker who may or may not be a sexual deviant? Not I. Skip this and head right to Sophie Kinsella's new one for your chick lit fill.
3.5 Stars. I enjoyed this book. It wasn’t groundbreaking at all, but I liked the characters and the dynamic between them. They were all flawed and very realistic. The story was interesting and I was engaged the whole time. Good one!
Weiner’s characters are generally well rounded and jump off the page as she thoroughly explores the less-than-feel-good, but humor-infused, feelings of loneliness, friendship, the search for love, the struggles of mothers and daughters, and the misery of being fat in a thin girl's world.
The exploration of this male character was a successful departure for Weiner that I thoroughly enjoyed.I wish I could have given this book 3 1/2 stars, but alas, Goodreads only allows us to rate in wholes.
For anyone who has not read Jennifer Weiner before, I recommend starting off with her earlier works: Good In Bed, In Her Shoes, Little Earthquakes and Goodnight Nobody are all fabulous.
Highly enjoyable chicklit.
Maureen Corrigan said the only thing chicklit about this was the title, but I can’t really agree with that.
The action starts when her best childhood friend, who betrayed Addie and has been estranged ever since, shows up after their high school reunion, saying she thinks she killed the misogynist football quarterback who caused so many girls so much pain.
The novel does a nice job of rethinking childhood perceptions and misunderstandings about family and friends, so it definitely goes beyond chicklit.
It’s chicklit plus.
The characters were mostly believable, and the scenes from the girls' childhoods were detailed and well written.
But, there were a few annoying, outlandishly over-done scenes that, without, would have made the book more believable.
*Slight Spoiers*: The whole bit about Jordan, the chief of police, being after these girls with only flimsy details, no evidence, and his 'hunch' was totally unrealistic, as were several of his actions.
She began and ended this book as spineless.
Double blah.Oh, and the 'happily-ever-after' end was totally corny.
Hate to say it, but I think Jen may have jumped the shark with this one.
I have loved all of her books and never regret spending the extra money to buy the books in hardcover right away.
But this one disappointed me.
Addie Downs was like a watered down version of Cannie Shapiro, everyone's favorite from "Good In Bed".
But the whole "best friends since childhood broken up due to big nasty secret and now reunited due to dramatic and dire circumstances" is as overplayed in literature as Lady Gaga is on the radio.
I ended up feeling like I'd already read this book a thousand times.
Next time, I'll wait for the paperback version.

Well, I finished this book back in Sept of 2009 but I think a review of a book as good as this one is better late than never.
I really enjoyed this book as I have past Jennifer Weiner novels.
I loved the friendship between Addie and Valerie.
It shows that no matter how flawed two people are they have a complex love for each other.
I would highly recommend this novel.
Some might just say it's chick lit which it is, but I say it's a deeper exploration of female friendships and family dynamics that keeps you guessing to the very last page.
Ho preso questo libro dallo scaffale in cui si trovava senza dare nemmeno uno sguardo veloce alla trama, e subito mi sono fiondata alla cassa.Inizio a leggerlo lo stesso pomeriggio e penso che potrebbe essere stato un ottimo acquisto.
La storia nel complesso, infatti, è carina.
- aggiungerei), e sebbene l'inizio non fosse dei migliori, al termine della lettura tutto è stato rivalutato.Solo, sembra un po' strano il totale cambiamento comportamentale di Val rispetto ai tempi dell'infanzia, in cui tutto lasciava presagire al fatto che non avrebbe mai e poi mai seguito le orme della madre civettuola.
