https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/222127.The_Mad_Scientists_Club
The "mad scientists" here are a lot more Scooby Doo than HG Wells.
They're like, if the Scooby Doo villains were kids playing pranks rather than adults after cash.
Especially one story, where the boys put a mannequin in a jetpack atop a monument and pretend it is a person threatening suicide, I did not like at all.
It's not specified how old the boys are, but old enough to have girlfriends and stay out at night, so old enough to know better.
Although for this sort of boys' hijinks genre he is a better writer than average.
No one in today's control-freak, micro-managing America wants to imagine that children can be trusted like this.Books for very young children ('Little Prince' or 'Giving Tree') are in abundance on Goodreads.
It's a book written for kids illustrating how NOT to follow the rules.
Its a book that deals with kids just..having fun.
I say, there need to be a LOT MORE books like this.
Today, we don't let kids have 'secret clubs', 'hideouts', codewords, or 'mysterious friends'.
This boy's club makes their own fun.
I first read this book in elementary school back in the early 1970's. To this day, it remains one of my all-time favorites. In 2004, I picked up the hard-cover reprint published by Purple House Press. That summer I re-read the book with my son. It was a marvelous way to share the magic of reading. Now he loves these stories as much as I did when I was his age. In my humble opinion, this is Bernard Brinley's finest work. A definite children's classic.
The ultimate pre-teen boys' adventure series, The Mad Scientists Club details the exploits of a group of boys intensely interested in electronics, radio transmitters, physics, aviation, etc. From a seemingly limitless supply of equipment they construct elaborate pranks, experiments, and rescue devices to astound, confuse, vex, impress, and otherwise impress their fellow townsfolk. Before there was Make magazine there was The Mad Scientists Club.
This book wound up surprising me.
I wasn’t liking it too well at first.
It seemed like it was about a bunch of boys who used their STEM skills to prank their fellow townsfolk.
While they definitely did their fair share of that, they also did some pretty amazing things.This book was written at a time when unsupervised free time was a thing.
I think it could potentially be very inspirational for boys.
I’m trying to get my son to read it.
I’m hoping it’s not too old fashioned to be relatable to modern-day kids.
Some of the science is a bit outdated.
And of course there are no girls (not even a token girl, thank goodness).
And these 'boys' (mostly about 14 years old, I think) do disrespect other people's property and stuff.
They also prove themselves to be good kids who can be trusted not to do any real harm, so I felt comfortable laughing at the funny bits.But, I'm not an adventurous boy.
Without enough characterization to know the boys apart (the fat one, the youngest, the inventor is about all I got), and without any thoughtfulness/ depth/ resonance/ substance, I, personally, just don't feel charmed.
My 9 and 11 year old daughters STILL let me read to them a few nights a week.
This book, and its sequel (The New Adventures of the Mad Scientists Club) did much to shape my childhood curiosity about scientific adventure, and probably explains why I teach elementary school kids how to build machines and robots with Legos.
It doesn't have to be THIS book, but little girls need to be exposed to gears, levers, rockets and others things not generally associated with stereotypical "girl toys."
I re-read this book a few years ago and these stories really hold up. They are just as fun and clever the second time around.
This one is a very tricky book to review. I'm going to do a detailed review at Plumfield and Paideia where I show photos of specific sections. The science in this book is irresistible. It's absolutely enchanting to a science minded reader, and a boy in particular. The bad behavior, however, spoils some of the fun. I really wish these boys were more respectful, more sensible, and more worthy of recommendation.
I sometimes like to read children's books because a) Some of them have more creativity and are better written than adult novels and b) I like to see how these classic hold up.
And weakest when the science is not explained well - The Great Egg. I am on the fence that half of these stories (The Strange Sea Monster of Strawberry Lake; The Unidentified Flying Man of Mammoth Falls; the Voice in the Chimney) are driven by the boys wanting to pull a prank since it seems to conflict with their good nature BUT I will admit it is realistic young boys would have this mischievous side to them so it makes them more human and less like little perfect creations.
By high school I enjoyed the Real but Goofy Science, and today I enjoy the writing style, excellent story telling without the "formula" of the Hardy Boys and "adult" things I get now but not when I was young.
It’s pretty much what the title says: a bunch of kids start a club to do science stuff, and much of it is practical jokes.
They spend most of their time without adult supervision.
There they have adults watching—from the ground.These kids are going to be real cranks when they get older and have kids and grandkids of their own.
“Why, when I was a kid, we used to dig all day for dinosaur eggs, search for lost treasure, and hide away in a clubhouse planning ways to prank adults.”Which is, of course, what we did.
This was simply a great childhood book for any inquisitive kid who likes science, haunted houses, dinosaurs, flying machines, etc.
Brinley managed to capture the perfect mid-west US town and the guys in the book were great caricatures of fun loving, science minded boys with a bit of good natured mischief up their sleeves.
Then Brinley took this setting and boys and produced a series of wonderful stories capturing so many things that so many boys growing up find so intriguing.
The follow ups while good never really reached the level of this first book but were fun in their own right.
This is the best kids book ever.
It probably appeals to boys more than girls though.
In a way it saddens me when I re-read it.
I don't think our kids today have as much freedom as these did (or my generation).
I remember staying out until dark, riding my bike EVERYWHERE, clubhouses on vacant lots...Or maybe it's responsibility.
Kids today have freedom but little responsibility.
I'm getting off my soap box now.
but this is a cool book and it will make your kids fall in love with science.
I imagine the Mythbusters grew up like this- or maybe their dads did!!
A favorite from grade school reading days that I found while book collecting and recently reread. I so wished I could be in a club like this one that had exciting adventures (and good clean fun) and used their wits to stay/get out of trouble. Reading it as an adult, this book is a great example of kids using their intelligence, humor, physical abilities to interact with each other and explore their world...things that seem lacking today (don't I sound old).
A book that every boy (and girl) should be given for one of the summers of their pre-teen years. The stories are funny, very creative, and most impressively, make the reader truly feel that they could build the contraptions and emulate the Mad Scientists' hijinks. 20 years after reading it for the first time, I still pick it up and find the characters as fresh and rewarding as ever.
When I read this in sixth grade, I thought that my father must have lived a childhood something like this, and I experienced an early from of nostalgia for something I'd never known. There is timeless magic in this story.
I thoroughly enjoyed these stories, written in the 1960s, and so did Danny. The names of the characters alone make it fun! I actually bought the omnibus of all the stories and novels, reprinted by Purple House Press, and hope to read them all.
One of my all-time favorite books, especially the dialogue between the Mayor and the Flying Man.
Family favorite, Love the whole idea & fun of the neighborhood boys getting into trouble.
One of my all-time favorite books growing up.
I love the inventive can-do spirit these boys possess. The story keeps our whole family on the edge of our seat.
I read it ages ago (this one and the next book) but i can hardly remember anything , so i'm rereading it!
I was so glad that still kept my old beat up paper bakc copy so I could read it to my son. He loved this book too,
Re-reading this one out-loud to my son. And when I say re-reading, I mean not only that I've read it before, but that my son has read it before. We both like it that much. :)
Gave me plenty of ideas as a youngster. Fun read back then.
I'm re-reading this book. First read it in Jr. High School.
A zany and fun collection of short stories. Difficult to find but a must have for any current or future scientist or engineer!
Read this ages ago and was never able to find the sequels. One of the few books both my brother and I could enjoy.
This one of those books that you are painfully aware that you would have loved as a kid, but know comes off as kind of silly.
For all that, I am impressed and appreciative of the care that I saw went into these stories.
The forward mentioned the author labored over his stories and I could certainly see that, though maybe that's just because I think to much about that kind of stuff.
Anyway, I thought the main characters worked well together and it was interesting to read about mischievous boys that were sciences lovers.
I thought that gave the stories a unique atmosphere that helped to make me appreciate it.
