https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25378.The_Dirt
And in a way, that’s the only interesting thing about this memoir: the sheer, naked desperation that seeps from every page; the intense, embarrassing need these guys have to be considered cool.
It was almost funny, reading one chapter that went “and then we fired so-and-so because he was a dick who refused to learn the music” and then going to the next chapter and reading “and then I quit the band because those guys suck and I hated the music.” But the men of Motley Cru remain, at best, petty and immature.
In a way, it was almost comforting to read this memoir and realize that everyone, even people you might believe are super cool, are just as insecure and desperate to fit in as everyone else.
This is like a rock 'n' roll version of the Jersey Shore meets Jerry Springer.  I have zero shame in loving this book. There is zero shame in loving Mötley Crüe and talking about it bc Mötley Crüe is the most fascinating thing in this world. The fact that The Dirt is finally getting turned into a movie after it being a book for almost sixteen years makes me so happy.
Started reading this book.4pm.
Took huge amounts of cocaine, bottle of Alleve, 5th of Jack, decided reading in bed wasn't the best thing for my posture.4:15pm.
Went crazy, destroyed hotel room, terrified groupies in varying stages of dress, played rock show.6pm.
Drank 2 more bottles of Jack, took huge amounts of cocaine from skin of groupies in varying stages of dress, played rock show.10pm.
Read more book, much to dismay of grouping in varying stages of dress, who proceeded to do huge amounts of cocaine.4am.
Shot heroin into eyeball, called supermodel girlfriend, told her I loved our kid, vomited.11am.
i felt a little silly for devouring something like 100 fear street books.
i mean, i was reading, and it wasn't like i ONLY read fear street books.
i read good stuff too.this book is like that, only now i'm 25, and this book is friggin DIRTY.
i read all 425 pages in 3 days.
i don't like motley crue.
i don't even like metal (or whatever you want to call motley crue.
when was the last time i read 425 pages in 3 days?
this is like smutty harry potter.put that on a dust jacket.
smutty harry potter.
There's a scene in Gilmore Girls where Lorelei stays home one night because she can't put this book down.
We read books to escape, and this book had me leave my world and be a cliche rock star in the hair metal 80s.
It's not about liking hair metal, and it's not about liking rock, and it's not even about Motley Crue (who I knew nothing about at the start of this adventure).
Look forward to reading more of Strauss's books asap.
Warning: The Surgeon General advises that reading this book could get "Dr. Feelgood" in your head for periods of up to 6 hours.
Consider yourselves warned.
But I still came away feeling sad, sad that music and the non-stop consumption of drugs, alcohol, women, and stuff seemed to be the only way these men could fill the gaping holes in themselves.
Sad that their demons and their egos got in the way of true greatness of craft again and again.
Thank you, Motley Crue, for the music of my youth.
For the sound of 45,000 people screaming SHOUT AT THE DEVIL in the Coloseum.
I truly wish them peace.Shout out to Lorelai Gilmore, for reminding me I had this on my "to read" shelf!
Indeed, it's brilliant and no matter how you feel about the group, their antics or their music, you will end up loving their journey to stardom.Filthy, almost gory at some points, insanely sad and painful at others, the only word that comes to mind in the end, is captivating!
And horrifically so..I have to admit firstly that the book is filled with egomaniac people telling a story with no real ending but if you want to taste the true sociological time-frame of the 80's in Los Angeles, this book provides that and more, so turn a blind eye and dive in..
I think I'm going to be sick 🤢Take a bath, please just once take a shower and wear cleans clothing I read Sixx's Heroin Diaries and was creeped out by the level of neglect, filth, and absolute sadness in his life. All of the decrepitude is a cry for help."They are savages with cash who care nothing about nobody, even each other."-Doc McGheeFull RTC
Great read for anyone who ever dreamed of being in an 80s band or a fan of the group. The way that they came to fruition along with some of the things they had to deal with in their lives were remarkable. A relatively easy read, as well.
His delight in the “titty cam” in Carnival Of Sins is more than enough to remind even drug addled bikers that Lee would not make a good date for your sister.And that, folks, set the stage for me paying hard earned money for The Dirt: Confessions Of The World's Most Notorious Band, the one and only Motley Crue autobiography.
All I can do is plod around and, when a fan in front starts cheering, muster a smile, say hey, or try to throw them a pick.” Just as watching Carnival Of Sins made me appreciate Mars as a guitarist, reading what he had to say made me appreciate him as a person.The other three are pigs.The Dirt seems incredibly honest and that may be its strongest point.
My very first concert were these guys:They were the living embodiment of rock-n-roll back in the eighties.
This is an in depth look at this group at its rise in the music business, their time on top, and their downfall.I was first impressed with this book that nothing was being held back.
This book goes into detail about all of the partying these guys did and into their personal lives.
I did think this book went overboard with detailing their partying ways and their doomed love relationships.
The highlight of the book was when they dealt with personal tragedy and how we got a look into this.
And I REALLY don’t know how I went from an obsession with orca and environmentalism to an obsession with a random 80′s heavy metal band in the span of only a few weeks.
But here we are… All of that said, I truly had no idea how badass (and completely, 100% fucking bat-shit crazy) Mötley Crüe was until I picked up this book.
Overdose after overdose, fist fight after fist fight, arrest after arrest– Tommy Lee, Mick Mars, Vince Neil, and Nikki Sixx somehow held it together long enough to become one of the most famous and successful heavy metal bands of their generation.
For most of their career, the behavior of these people (Mick Mars excepted) is flat out appalling.
As it was written after the end of their Crue career, the tone is more reflective.
With the help of Neill Strauss, each chapter is written by a band member or a hanger-on.
For one, we often see where band members have different takes on the same event, or they think the other guys were unaware of behavior.
Mick Mars, for example, states that no one knew he was really drinking large glasses of vodka, instead of water, pre-show.
In the next chapter, another members notes that Mick always pretended to drink water.
I was more interested in My Little Pony during the band’s heyday and my taste in music has never leaned in this direction, but I love a scandalous train wreck just as much as the next gal and this bio fit the bill.
Plus, Pamela Anderson’s breasts were a seriously major topic of conversation at my high school in 1995 and when she married Tommy Lee, a whole bunch of teenagers who’d been too sheltered to care about Mötley Crüe were suddenly interested in who was getting up close and personal with her boobies, myself included.
I’m pretty sure I hate them all and I don’t care for their music, but the book was fucking awesome.
I ripped through "The Dirt" while suffering from a nasty bout of the flu. Because of its accessibility, its fast pace and its sporadic-yet-easy-to-track narrative (which simply switches between points of view), I finished it in about a day and a half.  I will admit to never having been a huge fan of Motley Crue, or hair metal in general. I could take or leave Warrant, Poison, Ratt, et cetera. I originally picked this book up because I had heard that its storytelling was both disgusting and delig
I originally picked this book up because I had heard that its storytelling was both disgusting and delightful.
A fast and giddy read, anyone will plow through the over four hundred pages here.
The best anecdote involves Ozzy Osbourne.
The second best anecdote involves Ozzy and a blow up doll, on which he draws a Hitler mustache.
And admittedly, some of the most compelling chapters are written by Mick Mars, the often overlooked Crue guitarist who was diagnosed with a debilitating bone disease in his twenties.
In short, read this because it's fun, it's funny and it's fast.
Negative 5 stars for their treatment of women. 5 stars for surviving the amount of drugs they did and eventually sobering up. 3 stars for me being a child of the 80s and not being able to turn away from the train wreck.
Best tell-all from a rock band I've yet read. No punches pulled, and although you need to question any bio written by gents with egos this size, it's still a cracking read. Well worth the time, even if you don't dig on the tunes.
Ever.So I was quite surprised to learn (in 2000) they were writing a book with New York Times music critic Neil Strauss.
When I discovered the format of the book involved each member of the band individually telling his version of what happened -- and that each of the four versions would then be told 'side by side' -- I was very intrigued.
But if the book has any redeeming quality it is this: humor."The Dirt" is hilarious.
But hilarious nevertheless.)Most of the episodes chronicled in this book are unforgivable.
At least the members of Mötley Crüe are honest about it.
Holy crap, what an unexpectedly awesome book.
This book is disgusting and wonderful, which is confusing because it also made me openly weep.
Really.*Tommy Lee, Mick Mars, Vince Neil and Nikki Sixx, notoriously known as Motley Crue, tell all in this wild ride through the band's history.
Decadence at its finest.Appeals: getting the gossip from the inside point of view of a wildly decadent world full of celebrities and porn stars.
Multiple points of view flesh-out the story.
Appeals to the rebellious, disgusting, goofy, wild teenage boy in all of us.
This is a really great book, a classic of the genre. Its as visceral as Miles Davis autobiography, another I love, and trashes weak aging rock star Christmas book fare like cheap hotel rooms. It is not an attempt to explain the typically awful behaviour of rock musicians, only to document it, to say what its really like and to do it from the inside. In this it succeeds and goes platinum. Theres life, death, worldwide success, sex, drugs, money, ear-shredding solos, revolving, flying drumkits, ce
This is a really great book, a classic of the genre.
It´s as visceral as Miles Davis´ autobiography, another I love, and trashes weak aging rock star Christmas book fare like cheap hotel rooms.
It is not an attempt to explain the typically awful behaviour of rock musicians, only to document it, to say what it´s really like and to do it from the inside.
There´s life, death, worldwide success, sex, drugs, money, ear-shredding solos, revolving, flying drumkits, celebs, attitude, dirty needles, oceanic boozing and it´s all wrapped up and packaged in a classy, well-written, well-organised tome.
I´m no Motley fan but this will appeal to anyone who has ever rocked and rolled.
It's no coincidence that Motley Crue can be filed between The Monkees and Motorhead. Better looking than Van Halen, better songwriters than Guns 'N Roses. Combining dashingly rugged good looks with the hardest rocking sounds, they took the country by storm in the 1980's. Lots of great pictures with equally funny stories about the band. Lots of showbiz stuff about Tommy's marriages to Heather Locklear and Pam Anderson, too. Time to put on "Doctor Feelgood".
What I learned from this book... let's see... that people are disgusting, that I have deplorable taste in books, that my love for Home Sweet Home is unshakable, that I am conflicted over when it's misogyny and when it's just reciprocal idiotry, and that sometimes people randomly throw up on Kelsey Grammer. Truly awesome.
Wow...who knew debauchery could be so...BORING?!? I just didn't feel that any of the Motley Crue guys displayed the wit and creativity necessary to tell a compelling story, too many times this book just felt like one loooooong ego trip :(
At another point, Tommy Lee and Vince Neil give conflicting accounts of a physical altercation they had (with Mick Mars agreeing with Neil's version).The accounts of egos, drugs, and sex can get quite exhausting at times, but it's part of the story.
Luckily for him, she meant later that evening.The book does help the reader understand why these characters are so messed up, even if it doesn't necessarily make you like them: Sixx's dysfunctional family, Neil's driving under the influence, causing the death of his friend and severe injuries to two other people, the death of Neil's infant daughter, Mars's incurable and painful bone disease.
it was hard for me to get into at first because: a) i don't know motley crue at all - and had a hard time figuring out who was who since each chapter was told from a different person's perspective and voice.
b) i think hair metal is kind of boring.
like he was trying to make what motley crue did more legitimate by labeling it as a form of punk rock, which it just isn't.
i kind of reached a breaking point when nikki and tommy rape a girl in a closet.
Una de las mejores biografías que he tenido el placer de leer. Aunque el grupo en si no me vuelva loco (me gustan, pero poco más), el libro es muy muy recomendable, tanto como para releermelo de vez en cuando.
Beste muziekbiografie ooit. Punt.
Possibly the most entertaining book I've read in my research for a current project, The Dirt follows the most infamous example of '80s hair-metal excess on their long journey through Hell's Hall of Fame.
To their credit, most of them (Sixx especially) take some measure of responsibility for their obnoxiously shitty behavior; Lee slings a fair amount of pity-me bullshit, but the other guys square their shoulders and deck themselves with sledgehammers even while admitting they had the time of their lives.
They are the band every guy wanted to be and every girl wanted to be with.
Each chapter is written by a different bandmember or manager.
This is the band that took what Led Zeppelin did a generation before and made it more decadent.
The girls, the orgies, the drugs, the deaths it just goes on and on.As a story it's almost unbelievable except that it's true.As a book it's written very well and it both entertaining and informative.If you like them you've probably already read this and if you don't like them you probably won't read it but I do recommend it.
The Dirt goes in depth, for a no holds barred look into one of the most decadent rock bands ever.
Before reading this, I sort of dismissed Motley Crue; I liked a few of their songs, but overall thought they were nothing special.
But reading this has shed a new light, I now appreciate every album they've done, and have recently found myself blaring Kickstart My Heart or Dr. Feelgood over and over in my car.For anyone who's interested in glamorous and gritty tales of sex, drugs, & rock and roll, this is required reading.
