https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1717832.Lament_for_a_Maker
I have been, very slowly, making my way through the Inspector Appleby mysteries and this is the third in the series.
Well, in this case, I possibly owe editor’s an apology – this mystery, published in 1938, needed one.This is a story about a reclusive miser, one Ranald Guthrie, who falls from the battlements of Castle Erchany one winter’s night.
Inspector Appleby appears briefly, almost three quarters of the way through the mystery.
I will read the next Appleby novel, but this seemed to me an interesting idea, which just did not work.
His mysteries are literary--though in this, his third entry in the John Appleby's series, he has tamed his show-off impulses and put literature very satisfactorily into service to the plot.The story takes place in the wilds of Scotland and the depths of winter, and features an intriguing mix of sweet young people and horrifyingly eccentric elders.
The story is gothic and melodramatic but not preposterous.Each narrator in turn tries his hand at explication, and each constructs a logical scenario only to have it blasted to smithereens by the next.
If Innes's first two mysteries were tours de force of erudition, this one is a tour de force of language control.
I read this about nine months ago. I love Innes' mysteries, especially the earlier ones, and this one is just astonishingly well-crafted. He uses many different voices, and the mystery goes through at least three different valid and convincing solutions. He possesses such a brilliant mastery of his craft... terrific stuff.
I ended up really enjoying this book, in spite of finding the first long chapter in partial Scottish dialect very hard going.
The writing is, as expected, impeccable and engaging (once you pass the test of the deliberately laboured first chapter).
The plot construction is, however, so clever that it made me laugh in admiration -and read on to find the next twist in the seemingly resolved mystery.
I was content to follow a succession of increasingly intelligent and dispassionate detectives reasoning their way to the truth and peeling back the layers of complexity.
The book was well written, as is Mr. Innes’ usual style.
However, the story seemed to meander – at least for me.
Some of the Scottish words I couldn’t grasp, although I usually enjoy books written in the local dialect.
He lived in an old run-down castle filled with vermin and all kinds of filth.
He finds the old castle distasteful, but goes about his investigation efficiently.This story is told from several points of view which is a little confusing.
All in all not too bad a story, but not this author’s best.
Five different narrators giving rise to six changes in narrative voice for a short mystery novel?
Highland Cobbler (reprise)Like a 1970s concept album.
I don't know if Innes couldn't find a narrative voice that pleased him, if he was experimenting, or if he was just messing with the reader.
He does have a fondness for obfuscation, and by composing his book of "written testimony" in six sections, it is ALL tell-not-show, which deadens everything by putting it at one remove (at least).
I was thoroughly tired of the whole business by the time I got to the end.

I read a lot of Michael Innes' books about 30 years ago and recently decided to start on them in order from the beginning.
This is the third in the John Appleby series although Appleby comes into the narrative only late on.
As others have mentioned, the style is reminiscent of Willie Collins' Woman in White in its use of multiple narrators.
Each narrator has their own distinctive voice.
It is a Gothic fantasy (again similarities with Collins) and the plot twists and turns like a Highlands road.
If you like Golden Age detective stories with literary allusions and a tongue in the cheek, then this is highly recommended.
Me gustó, pero tuve que leer muchas partes varias veces porque no entendía que pasaba.
Me parece que si se hubiera escrito de otra manera lo hubiera disfrutado más.Me gustó mucho que esté narrado desde tantas perspectivas tan diferentes, porque cada uno da sus puntos de vista de los personajes.Supongo que si no hubiera sido tan tan complicado, me habría gustado muchísimo más.
Es un buen libro de misterio, y el personaje principal es muy inteligente, pero todo el misterio en sí, que al principio parece bastante común, terminó siendo de una manera que nunca me imaginé.
El principal problema que encontré en esta novela es que la primera mitad es muy aburrida con algún que otro momento que resulta entretenido. La segunda mitad se vuelve entretenida pero... ¿en serio Innes hacía falta lo de la rata y luego lo del hielo al final que parecen como fuera de lugar en la novela? ¿Acaso con menos giros no se hubiese obtenido un resultado mayor? Porque en un momento los giros me comenzaron a cansar e incluso, alguno que otro, quedo forzado.
This 3rd book in the Inspector Appleby series is very different in style from the first two. This style is similar to Wilkie Collins; the story is told in a series of first person narratives. Unfortunately, the first narrative by Ewan Bell is written in a Scots English that almost made me give up on this before I had read 25 pages. I am so glad that I didn't! The case kept getting more and more complex and the ending was a great surprise - Innes really came up with a wonderful plot.
Unfortunately this novel proved a challenge too far, and it was only after taking a break of a few days that I was able to steel myself to finishing it.The concept is clever - the mystery around a Scottish laird who falls to his death is revealed by various participants in the events, and each presents these events through a different lens so that only when they are all put together is the truth revealed.
It is also written with a plethora of Scottish expressions - while this adds authenticity and was not particularly difficult to understand in itself, it also adds another layer of obfuscation that frustrates rather than entertains.
After a very annoying beginning narrative (the Scottish dialect was unintelligible to me) this turned into an interesting story. I enjoyed the different views of the situation as each narrator arrives on the scene. The plot has an incredible number of twists, each plausible.
But I persevered having enjoyed the first two books in the Appleby series and I did find it interesting a well written.
It is narrated in seven sections by some of the people involved in the story – one of which is Appleby himself though he only makes a brief appearance in the second half of the book.Ranald Guthrie is a miser and lives in a remote and dilapidated castle.
I was drawn by the description of this book but unfortunately I had to put it away after just a couple of pages. It is too confusing for me. Although I like reading (very) old books (I’m a big fan of Charles Dickens and Wilkie Collins), this book was either too old for me or it’s just not for me.I grade it three stars because it is not the authors’ fault I made the mistake to request this book.
The influence of Wilkie Collins is strong here; in its multi-voiced narrative structure it reminds me of The Moonstone, and in its intricate plotting and air of Gothic excess, it reminds me of The Woman in White. And I liked it very much--until I got to the narrative of Richard Flinders; that took me a plot twist too far, I'm afraid.
Genre: Golden Age Mystery  Rating: Convoluted and Intriguing. Timor Mortis conturbat me.  Third in the John Appleby mystery series.  As with all the Appleby books, extremely literary and quite convoluted. Quite a few twists and turns I did not see coming.  I do enjoy the series, even if it shows up my poor literary education. ;)
Wow. This is a complex and intricately-plotted book--how had I missed Michael Innes until now? Murder in a snow-bound Scottish castle, wonderful narration, and I didn't see the ending coming.
Having read the previous book in the Inspector Appleby series (Hamlet, Revenge!) I thought I knew what to expect from this one, but I was wrong – this book has a very different feel and structure and despite being published in 1938, it’s not a typical Golden Age mystery novel at all.The title is taken from a 16th century Scottish poem by William Dunbar (the word maker, also spelled makar, means a poet or court poet).
This makes me wonder whether Innes may really have wanted to write a historical mystery but couldn’t as he needed to make it part of the Appleby series.
Lament for a Maker is a novel that will not appeal to a wide audience.
As in the other novels that I’ve read by Michael Innes, Lament for a Maker takes its sweet time to reach the heart of the plot.
It’s obvious that Michael Innes revels in his cleverness, but his attempts at making things more real tend to be more offputting than immersive.Inspector Appleby doesn’t enter until readers enter the latter half of the book.
Unlike the majority of British Police Procedurals, the Inspector plays only a small role in the novel.
Is Lament for a Maker cleverly plotted and put together, yes.
I had major issues getting into this book, largely because the first section is narrated by a Scot with such thick dialect that I didn't know what half the words meant- and the dictionary wasn't much help!
That problem is solved when the narrator changes by section, but I wasn't a big fan of that method, either.
Four or five narrators over the course of the book, with somewhat self-conscious transitions in between, makes for an oddly disrupted journey as a reader.
I didn't enjoy this as much as the first two Appleby novels, but it was still fun- and my Scots vocabulary has expanded greatly...

This was such a hard read!
The first part, almost 50 pages was in Scottish.
I think the author just wanted to add as many Scottish words that he could.
This caused a lot of rereading to try to understand just what was going on .
The narration changes multiple times, which really seemed to me to be too many.
The rest of the book was not bad , but there was a lot of rambling.
The first of this series I did like, the second I found wasn't as good and this has got to the worst .
Not sure that I want to read any more by this author
A Scottish castle,an isolated village,quirky villagers and an eccentric Lord. All the right ingredients for a classic mystery. The story is made up of different parts told by different characters. And it works were it not for the first character who writes as he speaks with plenty of Scottish words and expressions. Not always evident...Still the storyline is good and the outcome of the mystery is not obvious. 3,5 starswww.booksdogsandcats.wordpress.com
I had a bit of trouble getting into this book, maybe it was the Scottish accent/writing, and I almost gave up. But I did continue and found it to be a very good, and in turn had trouble putting it down. Many surprised and red herring, told with many narratives to the final conclusion of the crime. Michael Innes never ceases to surprise and keep ones interest.
Inspector Appleby mystery without Inspector ApplebyAmazon promotes this as the third Inspector Appleby mystery. Inspector Appleby is not in it. Still an okay book but those reading the series should know Amazon lied.
This book was not easy to read because some characters spoke in a Scottish dialect, using words that I never did figure out. But if you can hang in through that, the book is definitely worth reading. It's a complicated mystery, masterfully written.
A rather neat mystery thriller with a twist at the ending. The radio adaptation is good too and adds to the story by recreating the ambience wonderfully.My Rating - 4/5
The first of the five narrators writes in Scottish, but if you can get through that, it is worth it. Was it a murder or a suicide or is the victim still alive?
Todo ello (las grandes y profundas descripciones, las emociones y sus personajes melodramático, etc) está empapado de un humor pícaro y sagaz, lo que hace más amena la lectura y nos da un respiro en ciertas partes donde lo necesitamos.A lo largo de la novela tenemos cinco personajes que nos van narrando los hechos: Ewan Bell, un viejo zapatero que remienda calzados usados; Noel Gylby un joven inglés de imaginación super excitada y fantasiosa que se perdie camino a Londres y acaba en el pequeñito pueblo escocés donde se desarrolla la historia ( encontré la parte de su relato gracioso y genial, varias veces me reí en voz alta), el abogado Wedderburn de Edimburgo; un joven policía (muy inteligente e intrigante) llamado John Appleby, y un misterioso doctor.Estos cinco representan al "investigador" dentro del relato de asesinato.
