https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/80616.The_Thin_Man
We found a table. Nora said: "She's pretty.""If you like them like that."She grinned at me. "You got types?""Only you, darling - lanky brunettes with wicked jaws.""And how about the red-head you wandered off with at Quinns' last night?""That's silly," I said. "She just wanted to show me some French etchings.” It is almost impossible for me to separate the book from the movies. When I decided to reread this classic that spawned six great movies, Nick Charles was of course William Powell, and Nora
The book is famous for the witty exchanges between Nora and Nick, but the book is somewhat overshadowed by the wonderful repartee between Powell and Loy over the course of the six movies.
He is perfectly happy spending his days drinking martinis and looking after Nora’s money, but Nora is obsessed with his previous life as a private investigator and certainly has a rosy, unrealistic view of the profession.
So the way the stories go in the book and the movies is that invariably Nora drags Nick into an investigation.
I invented a new drinking game based on The Thin Man and tried to give it a test run when I re-read it.
So don’t try that.Nick used to be a private detective in New York, but he left that behind when he married Nora and moved to California to take over the management of the various businesses her father left her.
The banter between Nick and Nora is fun, and his casual remarks about needing a drink with breakfast just to “cut the phlegm” make for their own kind of anachronistic amusement.
"We didn't come to New York to stay sober."The Thin Man is best read with a drink in hand.
Well, a good one comes along in the form of murder for money, and Charles' old friends are all wrapped up in it.
The writing is solid, the plot feels sound, the characters are a little dramatic (don't get me started on the women...these dames is batty!), but once all that's in motion, the book as a whole feels static.
And then Hammett pulled a Melville...At least Herman Melville was writing a novel about whales when he inserted that non-fiction book-sized treatise on the whale species.
With his plucky wife Nora, can Nick get things sorted out so he can get back to his drinking?The Thin Man was not at all like I expected.
The Thin Man is much more humorous than Hammett's earlier works and I found myself liking it quite a bit.Nick Charles, former detective, is quite a character.
I'm pretty sure the plot is only here for Nick and Nora to bounce lines around and give them something to do between drinks.The writing is top notch for the era as well.
It's a shame Hammett didn't write more Nick and Nora books.
I already can hardly remember what happens or how they solve it, but there is some brutality, since it is noir, but Part Three: Nick and Nora begin drinking “like a fish,” as they say, again.Reminded me of the days when loveable drunks were a regular feature in literature and tv such as Crazy Guggenheim on Red Skelton:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1ic5v...Or Dudley Moore in 10.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9qHA9...Finally: Hammett is a terrific writer of dialogue.A clip from the movie, which I recommend to read after the biook.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bSThE...3.5.
5 for creating the screwball detective duo Nick and Nora and the goofy girl and the dialogue and 2 stars for the story, which is sort of not what Hammett seemed to care about here.
What I learned from this book (in no particular order):1. A speakeasy is the proper place for a man to wait for his wife to finish her shopping.2. A Schnauzer is NOT a cross between a Scottie and an Irish terrier.3. “I hit Nora with my left hand, knocking her down across the room.” If a bad guy points a gun at you and your wife, the standard operating procedure is to knock her out to prevent her from becoming hysterical over such a potentially distressing situation. 4. Women do not really mind b
“I hit Nora with my left hand, knocking her down across the room.” If a bad guy points a gun at you and your wife, the standard operating procedure is to knock her out to prevent her from becoming hysterical over such a potentially distressing situation.
Other Random ObservationsNumber of dead bodies: 3 Number of alcoholic drink consumed by the protagonist: 21Number of cute canine interludes: 8Number of un-PC racial epithet: 1Number of incident of spousal abuse by the protagonist: 1BUT SERIOUSLY,I expected this to be a shining example of the 1930’s noir/screwball comedy, starring an amusing, bantering couple, hard-drinkin’ tough guys and smoky-eyed femme fatales.
Nora and their pet dog Asta are willing partners in the plan, their apartment door always open to old friends and former enemies of Nick and the cocktail glasses are never empty.Pretty soon, these old friends are all pressuring Nick, some at gunpoint, to investigate the dissapearance of one of his former clients : the thin man from the title.
There's a world of crooks and liars, sharks and femmes fatales outside the Nick and Nora penthouse apartment, reminding us that Hammett is rightly famous for less comedic offerings: I don't like crooks.
I think the awesomeness of Nick and Nora Charles got built up a little too much for me before I read this, because I was expecting 200 pages of nonstop witty banter between the two, and was mildly disappointed.
Having looked up the movie version of The Thin Man on IMDB, I've added it to my Netflix queue and intend to make a comparison as soon as possible - if the IMDB quotes are any indication, the movie version looks much funnier than the book.
Watch the movie, and read the book only if you're really curious about the little changes they made in the screenplay.
Nick and Nora Charles are staying at a swanky hotel in Manhattan when word arrives of a missing man.
However, it isn’t long before Nick is forced into the case and in order to deal with the cast of characters circling the search, he keeps the liquor flowing.Ah, the 1930s, when alcoholism was considered a charming personality trait as well as the social norm rather than the life-destroying disease that it is today.
Outside of the two main attractions, the cast is filled with characters with their personalities turned up to eleven.
It's one of my first encounters with crime fiction from that era, and I came away generally amused.Nick Charles is on vacation with his wife Nora.
Nick and Nora engage in the sort of banter that we normal people wish we were having.
I think it may have been fantasy at the time, since the book was released not long before prohibition was ended, and people wanted to read about rich people getting plastered in nice hotel rooms.Here's a game you can play at home while reading: Take a shot every time a character in the book takes a drink.
'Hard-hitting, Hard-drinking, Fast-talking - classic detective thriller. It does what it says on the tin. For any fans of classic noir, this is not to be missed.
*They’ll tell you that Nick and Nora, our charming lushes, later to die of cirrhosis of the liver at the age of 55 and 46 respectively, are possessed of this witty banter.
“She just wanted to show me some French etchings.”SAME SCENE FROM THE MOVIENora (referring to Dorothy): Pretty girl.Nick: If you like 'em like that.Nora (grinning at him) : You got types?Nick : Only you, darling...
lanky brunettes with wicked jaws.Nora :	Who is she?Nick :	I was hoping I wouldn't have to tell you.
I had never read a Hammett novel until now and, while I did enjoy it, I would be lying by omission if I did not say I like the movies so much better.
*I think whether readers enjoy Hammet's writing must depend on whether they like their hard-boiled detective stories in the form of novels because it's a specific kind of fiction, stylistically.
(It's very obvious in reading Hammett that Hemingway was a fan, by the way.) These days, I prefer less focus on action and more quiet reflection and internal dialogue, at least in the books I read.
The main knock on THIN is that Hammett was pretty much bored with fiction by this point in his career, having lost his bearings to booze, broads, and just about any other indulgence that began with a B except Billy Barty (too short for him).
Also the book isn't anywhere near as hardboiled as the other novels, probably because Hammett was writing about a happily married man with a rich wife and therefore nothing to be disillusioned about.
This isn't a Lost Territory sort of drunkenness, either.
But after reading about Dashiell Hammett's life, it seems like this might have been his most realistic novel.
Drinks heavily." This chronology goes on for TEN PAGES and includes more affairs, benders, posh apartments, debt collectors, trials, political intrigue, and detective work than in an entire season of Law & Order.
For Hammett to treat these subjects lightly - subjects that were at the very time tearing his life and career apart - give the book the feeling of a fantasy - a sort of fairy tale noir.
The gun, a blunt black .38-calibre automatic, lay comfortably in his hand, not pointing at anything.”Whew – edit that, if you can!The same rigour applies to his dialogue:Nora said: “I love you, Nicky, because you smell nice and know such fascinating people.”Dorothy said: “It’s not much out of your way to drop me at Mamma’s, is it?”I said: “No,” and gave the driver Mimi’s address.Nora said: “Come home with us.”Dorothy said: “No – o, I’d better not.”Nora asked: “Why not?” and Dorothy said: “Well, I don’t think I ought to,” and that kind of thing went on until the taxicab stopped at the Cortland.Nora said...
Everyone knows that Hammett pretty much single-handedly invented modern crime fiction, and The Maltese Falcon is an enduring masterpiece that may still stand as the most geometrically perfect example of the detective novel form.
Nick and Nora Charles became Hollywood icons by virtue of their cosmopolitan charisma, witty repartee and fashionable drunkenness, but those traits are so marginalized in Hammett's novel that credit for the characters' iconic status belongs more to the unremembered screenwriters (and Wiliam Powell and Myrna Loy) than to Hammett himself.
Nor is there any of the moral weight that made The Maltese Falcon a classic.This book is a strike against D.H. in the eternal war of Hammett vs.
دشیل همت کسی است که ادبیات جنایی و پلیسی را که اصلا در امریکا به وجود آمده بود، رونق و اعتبار بخشید. او یکی دو دهه محبوب هالیوود و جامعه ی کتابخوان آمریکائی بود، این کتاب دست کم مبنای ساخت شش فیلم سینمایی و یک نمایش موزیکال بوده است، شاید شخصیت همفری بوگارت نماینده بیرونی کیشی باشد که دشیل همت آفرید
I must say that I enjoyed the fact that Nora's a very perceptive woman with a good brain for investigation as well, even though she serves in the capacity of a part-time sidekick to Nick.
Not one of the characters in this book is what I would consider well-adjusted, outside of Nora, and possibly Nick.
I felt truly immersed in this time period and I liked Nick and Nora as main detectives.
I like reading about main characters who are married, and this is definitely one to recommend to readers who enjoy this theme.
I wanted to like it, with it's aura of louche 1930's glamour.
Unfortunately, I basically disliked all of the characters except for Nick & Nora.
He seemed more like a far cooler version of Dashiell Hammett - a man's man, able to drink tall bottles with a single bound, deflecting bullets with the manliness of his manly chest.
Too much wish fulfillment, too little substance.And Nora.
Ah, Nora.
With her red hair and her extreme coolness, I never got a sense of what she would be like in a room by herself.
Okay...if you're into "hard-boiled" detective fiction or mystery fiction I'm sure you'd rate this book higher.
Maybe the fact that I loved the movie and therefore already know (view spoiler)[the "Thin Man" of the title was already dead and couldn't be the murderer.
(hide spoiler)]I don't know.
But judging by my own past and what I know of my own taste...I just don't get into mysteries...even the good ones.
I just couldn't get into it.However I did get through it and found the actual writing quite good.
I would bet real mystery fans will love it.
He’s batty as hell.”“Did you know her?”“Yes. How about a drop of something to cut the phlegm?”“What was she like?”“Not bad,” I said.
It’s too early for breakfast.”I love the way Nick keeps asking for a drink and Nora keeps deflecting him.
The Charles don’t do any sort of work and when it comes to solving the murder of the thin man, Nick keeps his suspicions about the culprit to himself till virtually the end, although he does speculate with Nora:“I think,” she said, “that he’s shielding somebody else.”“Why don’t you think he did it?”She looked surprised.
Ohhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh, I liked this one.
I liked it a lot.
I like the pace and I love Nick and Nora.
It was witty and fun with an ending I didn't see coming.
Once again, a fascinating array of women pop in and out of the story.
Nora isn't really a main character - it really is Nick - but she keeps him from being too....Same Spade-ish.
There is a mutual respect there I liked because it bridged the usual dismissive treatment of women in this story.
But mostly I just love the way this book moved and sounded.
Delicious fun.
Nick & Nora Charles are fun characters who come off much more 3 dimensional - as opposed to archetypcal - than either Sam Spade or the Continental Op. Plot is almost a secondary concern here which is rare for a mystery.
Nick is a former detective who wants no part of crime solving but would rather enjoy some heavy drinking in prohibition era NY.
And while she isn't a detective by any means, when it comes to wit and personality she's her husbands equal by any measure.Overall it's a great book and very different type of approach to the mystery novel.
This is the first Hammett novel I've read.
I don't know why I haven't made the effort to read such an iconic writer before, particularly as I am a long-time crime fiction reader and a fan of "classic" mysteries.
It may be my first Hammett, but I'm pretty sure it won't be my last.I've just finished re-reading all of the novels of Dorothy L Sayers, who is without doubt my favourite writer of "Golden Age" mysteries.
The mystery was strong enough to keep me interested and I didn't guess the culprit in advance of the big reveal.
Hammett's last novel, THE THIN MAN doesn't refer to the ex-detective Nick Charles, but a different character. Nick and Nora Charles with their dog Asta were famous in the popular THIN MAN movies starring the witty and suave William Powell with Myrna Loy. The novel, however, shows a grittier side with its muggings, narcotics, and lots of booze consumed. By the end, THIN MAN reads like an elaborate whodunnit I had trouble at times following. The quality dialogue is probably the real strength. I'll probably re-read THIN MAN later on to see how I react to it.
Σε αυτό το αστυνομικό του μυθιστόρημα, ο Χάμετ 'χρησιμοποιεί' τον Ελληνοαμερικανό ντετέκτιβ, Νικ Τσάρλς, ενώ περιλαμβάνει διάσπαρτα στοιχεία χιούμορ, όπως και πολλά πολιτισμικά στοιχεία και ιστορικά γεγονότα. Πρόκειται για ένα από τα πιο 'μυστηριώδη' βιβλία του με τα λιγότερα 'νουάρ' στοιχεία, τα οποία αρχίζουν να διαφαίνονται,περισσότερο, στο 2ο μέρος. Βαθμολογία: 4,35/5 ή 8,7/10.
Read in 2012 - pre Goodreads.Review 11.30.17 - I loved this book! Enjoyed the movie, too. I became a Dashiell Hammett fan after this. Sorry about what happened to him in later life.
Mulheres bonitas, homens alcoólicos, um crime. Narrativa sem descrições, sustentada apenas por diálogos.Cansa-me, aborrece-me, faz-me sono…Li metade e já não aguento mais.

