https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/134371.Little_Fur_Family
Another adorable book by the legendary Margaret Wise Brown.
My edition comes in a special box, and the entire cover is plain brown faux fur.
(My granddaughter thinks it is an extra special book, since she has never seen a book covered in fur before, or have a special box just for 1 book, lol.) The illustrations are darling.
We love this book.
My grandson, who just turned 1, was enamored with it.
The tale is simple, detailing a day in the life of the little fur family, in particular, the fur child.
I can't imagine any little one not liking this book.
My son loved to pet this book.
This isn't the right edition...The one I had was tiny and gray and made entirely of fur. It was nothing short of amazing. My sister still has it somewhere. I wanted to lick the illustrations and adopt the little fur child and squeeze the little fur parents and dive right into the little fur house!
It's kind of... weird. After a closer look in one of my children's literature classes, I think I like it a little bit better (interestingly, it turned out to be a great book to look at through the New Criticism lens!), but still not my favorite.
When you read Little Fur Family in the 21st century, it's an almost sadly nostalgic picture book.
The Fur Mother bathing her child in a old fashioned tub, the Fur Child's Depression-era coat and hat; the glow of lantern and candle and firelight as night falls at the end.
This isn't necessarily a deep story (although I've since read that there are themes of life and death, and the power over death, which is faintly disturbing to me); it's powerful because it's simple.
The majesty of this story lies in the sparse text, combined with its warm illustrations.
"There was a little fur familywarm as toastsmaller than mostin little fur coatsand they lived in a warm wooden tree."Margaret Wise Brown always combines the magical, the poetic, and the comfortable into her books in varying degrees. This is a simple story about a day in the life of a little fur boy. He is washed, explores the woods and is sung a bedtime song by his parents. There is a lot of rhyme, but it is not forced into a pattern. My boys laugh when the child and the grandpa sneeze.John's favorite part: the bedtime song
Favorite bedtime book for the boy. As always, Brown's words are poetic and in this case, drift you slowly into sleepiness. Williams's illustrations provide ongoing conversation for our family as well. Got it as a gift and will give it as a gift any chance I get.
MY ABSOLUTE FAVORITE BOOK in the ENTIRE history of my reading career
Am I the only one who thinks this is menacing as hell? What are these ambiguous "fur animals" and why are they wearing FUR COATS?
I liked this book!It was cute
Tudo nesse livro é perfeito: o tamanho, a capa felpuda, as ilustrações e o texto.
Category/Genre: Picture BookAge Level: Pre K-3rd GradeReading Level: 1st/2nd grade, approximatelyThis edition of “Little Fur Family,” small and covered in (faux) fur, reflects its very characters—charming for those just becoming acquainted with the wonder of books, or for the elementary reader who recognizes just how clever the production of this tome is.
The fur child’s parents love him more than he knows, and he is safe and secure even as he explores the world around him.2 characteristics that make this a quality Picture Book:-“All aspects of a book’s design can reinforce or extend the meaning of the story.” (Huck, p.
Margaret Wise Brown created a MASTERPIECE with this little children's book. I can easily say that it is one of the BEST I have ever read. The way it flows . . . In parts it reads like poetry. And it sweetly and consistently enveloped me as only the coziest blanket could. Gave me all the warm fuzzies! My only complaint is that it took me all these years to find it. LOVE. LOVE. LOVE. <3
It is a tiny volume, not a board book, but rather it comes clothed in a very soft fake-fur cover that a small child can readily hold, and which is not so easily torn, since it takes fine motor skills to rip such little pages.
It has very few words on the pages, and with my youngest toddlers, I ignored the words completely and just talked about the pictures, or imagined what the characters might be saying to one another (out loud, of course!).If you are shopping for a shower gift, for a grandchild, or even for your own little person, this is a great find.
What can be said about this book other than I doubt it could be published today - Margaret Wise Brown was true to her own muse, and I doubt any editor could tell her what to write.
It is bizarre (what kinds of animals are these?
(see my books).
Garth Williams was given a lot of grief about making the bunnies in "The Rabbits' Wedding" black and white - to the point where certain libraries in the south wouldn't carry the book.
Nobody notices that the Mommy and Daddy in this book are different 'races' - look at the shape of the eyes.

this book is surreal, but very sweet.again, it is a callum favourite. the phrasing is kind of weird and cal is mostly excited about the sneezing and the "thump thump thump" action words. again, it's a gentle book that end with a song - the lyrics are there, but we have to make up the melody, which is cool because it naturally changes with each read.it's the trippyness of the book makes it enjoyable for me as a parent to read.
The art in this book feels like slides from a slideshow. (Not in a bad way) The story is similar to Little Bear. It's mostly "realistic", except for when little bear is at the river looking at stuff. First he picks up a fish... then he picks up a lady bug... then he sees a miniature version of himself walk right by. I enjoyed this one page hallucination in midst bear family neorealismThis book came out in 1946. It's 30 years older than me. Older than ISBN
The size! oh, it is all about the size and the fur and the tininess of the entire book, illustrations, and mood. I treasure the bazillions of times I read this book snuggling with my son - it was pricey for the time I bought it, but worth every cent. I have given this book as a gift over and over again and it is a simple treasure. The fur cover is just the best, ridiculous touch - this book is such a treasure.
I guess it is me, but this story didn't do much for me. Sure, I liked Garth Williams' illustrations. I always like his work. The story is supposed to be one of those gentle loving ones. Yeah, I don't care much for them. :)Do we know what kind of animal this is? Why is it that I am supposed to be all mushy after reading this?To each his own. If you like it, enjoy! I'll skip this one in the future.
Margaret Wise Brown's Little Fur Family is the glimpse into the lives of a family of small fur critters that is both poetic and nostalgic. My own little critters enjoyed this tale although my 3 year old insisted that the little fur family was a family of monsters. You win some you lose some, I guess.
I really like this book. It is simple, yet somehow profound. I like the way it describes going out on an adventure into the world and returning to a safe, cozy home at the end of the adventure. I want to live in the little tree! I hope my son feels like our home is a cozy, safe place to return to at the end of his daily adventures.
Poetic warm, cozy story- nice use of alliteration- lovely book to read aloud to 3 years and up. Margaret Wise Brown's language is spot on. Another genius! It is also a nice book, after having it read to him or her, for the young elementary reader to read to someone. :) Her language makes it easy to remember the story, even if the child doesn't yet know all the words.
I remember checking this book out from my primary school library in first grade, and LOVING it. I thought it was so cute, and especially loved the tiny tiny fur animal, the littlest fur animal in the world. I just checked this out of the library for Annea and I love it all over again. Garth Williams' illustrations are so incredibly wonderful.
This is some freaky stuff. It took me a looooong time to figure out what this story was REALLY about. A totally puzzling experience--I think that is the point. Life is very puzzling, and so is the book Little Fur Family. There is some weird thing in it about holding a vole, and being much larger than a vole, and then running through some woods that are much larger than you.
This is a funny little book about a simple day in the life of a little fur child. He runs out to have an adventure in the "wild wild woods" around his home. The use of the word "wild" repetedly in discribing aspects of nature is moody and fantastic. Yet the comfort and safty of his home is a sturdy presance.
This edition, I think, is out of print... but if you have it, you're lucky! :) I still have my 3" [dusty:] copy and love it. Recently found the new edition at Border's for Mont to handle. Cute, simple story.
Everyone should own this book! Nothing really happens, and the song at the end is odd (I mean, it's last line is "this is a song") but it has a wonderful rhythm and makes use of interior and exterior rhymes in a way few children's books do.
I remember adoring this book as a kid, due in part to its furry cover. I bought it again in 1990 for a friend's 2 year old daughter.
This is my #1 favorite children's book. Garth Williams drew the absolute cutest little creatures imaginable, and the story by Margaret Wise Brown is just adorable.
