https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8709528-the-ruby-circle
I think this gif sums up perfectly my thoughts on the book.
It was a solid conclusion to the series, though it was a bit on the short side.
Because of that, some parts felt rushed and I thought some resolutions happened a bit too easily.
And while there was enough resolution for me to feel satisfied, there are still some bigger, long-term plot threads left dangling...
(hide spoiler)] Could there be another spin-off series set in this world?!?!Overall, even though it was a bit rushed at times, I am happy with this finale.
Personally, I do still prefer the Vampire Academy series though (and would definitely recommend reading that one first!)
Go big or go home. And let me tell you, Richelle Mead really went big.If you were hoping and praying for an exciting and fast paced end to the series, then you got just that, and then some. This was a wild ride my friends. From frantic chases through Vegas, to strigoi attacks, to kidnapping, to Hydra like demons that spit acid.  Wild I tell you, absolutely wild. And like Vampire Academy's ending, again we have to say farewell to another brilliant series by Richelle. Until the next Richelle Mead
And let me tell you, Richelle Mead really went big.If you were hoping and praying for an exciting and fast paced end to the series, then you got just that, and then some.
And like Vampire Academy's ending, again we have to say farewell to another brilliant series by Richelle.
Until the next Richelle Mead adventure:______________Pre-review (15/02/2014):Crying because so far all the description says is: The last book in the Bloodlines series.You see that?!
Richelle could just write whole books about Sydrian arguing over pie flavours, or discussing the pros and cons of sour cherry slushies, and I'd still read it.
At least Dmitri and Adrian were into their twenties and had plenty of life and relationship experience when they settled down, unlike Sydney and Rose who ended up with the first guy they had proper relationships with.
I hated them together, even though I'm no longer a fan of Sydney I still think she deserved so much better than him.-I didn't enjoy Adrian's POV whatsoever, I didn't care about Nina or Olive or his spirit powers.
If anything Adrian was the one who acted like he'd gone through major trauma, it didn't help that Sydney kept molly coddling him, she practically changed his nappies, fed him and burped him, their relationship was so off putting.
After Reading So I finally read it!
And I am so depressed and happy!
The ending was beautiful yet I hate to say goodbye to this series.
This review is really personal and sappy, so if you want skip reading it, I won't blame you.
I felt her fear before I heard her screams.
This one line is enough to transport me 3 years back, when I bought my first book Vampire Academy.
I was a late bloomer when it came to reading.
4 years back I started reading books, one in 2 months.
I use to always pick up Va
I use to always pick up Vampire Academy when I visited the bookstore and upon my first reading the synopsis I thought it contained a love triangle between Rose-Dimitri-Lissa.
I started reading it and just like that I fell in love with books.In the above pic a few books are missing, some have been lent and some like SS and TRC are on kindle because I couldn't buy the books since this way the collection is incomplete and thus not a constant reminder that the series is over.
I remember reading this and thinking, what if Sydney and Adrian got together?
Is this it?It is on this day (Sometime in 2015), that we mourn the passing of a beloved old friend, The Bloodlines Series, who has been with us for many years.
He will be remembered as having brought to us the wonders of Sydrian and taught us the power of love.Bloodlines was preceded in death, by his sister, Vampire Academy.
He will always live on in our hearts and in our minds.We've shed tears and smiled smiles and spent countless months counting down to this day.
It is with a large dose of melancholy do I continue to countdown to the end of this amazing series...
I'm telling you, the next spinoff better be baby vampires next! Preferably (view spoiler)[Rose and Dimitri's, now that there's some sort of undead loophole. (hide spoiler)] :D3.5 stars Missing some swoon here, and I'm hampered because I just don't care about looking for pretty Princess Jill. But hey. It's been 12 books, and Richelle Mead still keeps my interest and still pulls off some fun surprises.Review to come.
My predictions for a book that will come out three years from now... Sydney and Adrian will get together *gasps*! Mind blowing isn't it guys?But seriously. I hope they get together now otherwise I will look like a complete idiot. Just pray that Adrian doesn't turn into a transvestite zombie or something weird like that so that they don't end up together... Acutally come to think of it that'd be a pretty cool ending. As an aside, I sincerely hope Rose and Dimitri get married cause- lets face it- Dimitri in a tux guys!
I genuinely loved the first two books of Bloodlines series.
The last three books, however is the downfall of the series.Bloodlines follows the story of Sydney Sage, a teenager girl who is part of an Alchemist organization.
As a result, Sydney started questioning everything she has learned.Similarly to its two predecessors, The Ruby Circle is told from the shifting point of views of Adrian and Sydney.
Of course, there are few authors who handled this fantastically with fluid and effective narrative, but Bloodlines series isn’t one of them.
What Really Happened Throughout This Book:Adrian: Mom!
“Being with you is the best thing that's ever happened to me, the one perfect decision I've made in a lifetime of fumbling and poor judgment. I'd go through it all again to be by your side. Never doubt that. Never doubt how I feel about you.”     “I love you. If anything, I can’t believe you gave up everything you did to bewith me. You changed your whole life for me.”“My life didn’t even begin until I met you,” I told him fiercely.”
*ignores life, humans, and every single responsibility to read this*Can they actually make  "Raptorbot Rampage"  a real movie?!
I'd watch the shit out of it!!Also, I'm surprised how much I missed all the secondary characters...* * * Woah.
what a journey...
So many feels!
An incredible ending to an incredible series.
Huge emotional moment for me because I've been following these books for years and now even the spin-off has finished!
But, what a finish it was.
Richelle, babe...
You KILLED it.
Also, DAMN do I miss Dimitri!
Again, Richelle Mead is the Queen and the absolute shit.
No. No excuse anymore.- Minor characters were brought back for no apparent reason and once again, it seems like an author tries to tie up every single loose end with a neat little bow.- The middle of the book had a great section (which is why I am not giving this 1 star).
It was boring and seemed like filler.Honestly, Jill being kidnapped was never a good idea to base the last book in a series on.
Sigh.- Finally, after 12 books in this world, absolutely NOTHING changed as far as the relationships between moroi, dhampirs, and humans (we saw small potential progress with the alchemists).
OMG!!!! I CANT BELIEVE IT WILL BE THE LAST SYDRIAN BOOK EVER!!!!!!!!BUT I AM NOT READY!!!!! I WANT MORE SYDNEY AND ADRIAN!!!!
Read this review and more on my blogIn a nutshell: While some parts were enjoyable, overall I wanted more and I'm really disappointed in The Ruby Circle as the final book.
Personally I'm not entirely satisfied with the ending - it feels more like a filler book with an epilogue stuck to the final pages.
It's not terrible, but it's not what I was expecting or what I really wanted from the final book.Following on from the previous book, Sydney and Adrian are pretty much trapped in the Moroi Royal Court, avoiding the Alchemists that are after Sydney.
Para ponerlo en una oración: El libro no me movió el piso.No sé que era lo que esperaba, pero vamos, luego de toda la sensacionabilidad que Sydney mostró en Silver Shadows, lo mínimo que quería era algo similar en el último libro de la serie, y aunque tuvimos mucho de eso, siento que no fue tan real.
Estoy segura que Richelle lo hizo para crear conflicto entre ella y Adrian, y entiendo perfectamente eso, pero el balance entre crear algo de drama y ser cansona se fue al traste.
LOVE both this series and the Vampire Academy series! I started this book in April, but had other books I really wanted to read more. Put it down, and just yesterday picked it up and flew through it! It was so good! I'm a little sad that it's over though...
I CAN'T ACCEPT THAT THIS SERIES HAS ENDED I DON'T EVEN CARE RICHELLE MEAD JUST PULL A CASSANDRA CLARE AND GIVE US 10 MORE SERIES' Thanks.Review to come.
lol yeahhh now i remember why i always lowkey forget this book exists.2.5 stars
We are a little bit biased when it comes to these books - our friendship actually started because of our shared love for Rose, Dimitri and Adrian.
I see point of it, but honestly it's not like someone will read this before any other book in both series and wouldn't know about dhampirs and moroi and all that).Glass: But she actually toned it down in final book, I was more annoyed by it in previous one.What did you think about Sydney and Adrian?
I just loved epilogue!Tanja: That thing was like cherry on top!
I'll miss these characters a lot - especially Adrian - but the ending couldn't have been more perfect.
As always I enjoyed reading about both Sydney and Adrian a lot.
I'm pretty sure that everyone who's read both Vampire Academy and Bloodlines can agree that the Adrian we met in Frostbite (vampire academy #2) isn't the same guy that we've come to know through the Bloodlines series.
As it was the last Bloodlines book a lot familiar characters made an appearance.
All I can do now is maybe re-read the books and fall in love with these characters all over.
This review was also posted HERE.OH MY GOD. I can't believe it's over. It's hard, really. It's difficult to say goodbye to the characters I've grown to love. I love how thoroughly invested I was with these books. It was just too easy for me to care for them because they were really flawed and they make mistakes and stupid decisions every darn time yet still, they are all wonderful.Richelle Mead wrapped up this series nicely, I supposed, though I feel that this was really short. I would've wanted
I might even read some fan fictions because I was left wanting for more even though I was wholly satisfied with almost everything.At the last pages I was like...I can't bring myself to read the end but alas!
I have so much love for these characters and I'm so happy everything turned out okay but I don't know.
(Including Vampire Academy, of course) But if you feel like you weren't up to commit to a lot of books yet, you can at least try to read the first one.
You'll never know, maybe you guys will end up loving it like I did!Deadly Darlings | Her Book Thoughts | Twitter
Don't get me wrong, I really enjoy Adrian and Sydney but the problem was that I forgot that a lot of the time.
I'm not sure why because I've definitely come to love them as much as I do Rose and Dimitri.
The story begins with someone missing and of course, Adrian and Sydney want to be right in the middle of the action.
The frustrating parts were the times when Adrian and Sydney were apart because they are just sooo good when they are together.
The new couple?
“For the last time, it’s not Canada,” Sydney replied, rolling her eyes.
So there.)--> Sydrian (these two are gonna be together forever 'n' ever & have lots of post-sex poetry & Baby Sydrians)--> Jeddie...Yes, I like how that sounds (hahaha).
I ain't making them cute couple names because nahhh, I just don't feel like it.--> A big showdown between Alchemists and Sage, her witch friends, & whoever else decides to back them up (Rose & Co., Moroi, etc.)--> Daddy Sage gets put into re-education (Ha!
I was pleasantly surprised to see that it was mostly him doing it and not just because Sydney was forcing him to do it.There was action, drama and a lot of love, the epilogue was perfection, the sense of happiness and calmness that the characters had was really nice to read after everything they had gone through.I don’t want to say anything else because I don’t want to spoil anything for anyone.
Maybe hopefully someday we’ll get a story from them.Keep Calm and Read OnInstagram and Twitter @bookquotes221
(view spoiler)[The revelations about Dimitri’s father and Olive’s baby (hide spoiler)]But…Tell me please, (view spoiler)[what the kidnapping of Jill has to do with the main story??
(hide spoiler)] Just to cause problems and create a 6th book?
And suddenly (view spoiler)[Jill is missing and… we meet Alicia.
(hide spoiler)]No…I really liked the story until the 4th book.
Instead of watching Adrian drinking there, we could focus on how the problems with alchemists and the couple end and also see the story of Olive.And speaking of olive… How convenient, huh?
I was expecting a BIG revelation about a cure from Strigoe bite, but this point was totally neglected, then I thought Adrian is going to find out somehow a way to use spirit without becoming crazy but instead he just found out that Rose and Dimitri can have childreen, I mean it's a big news but still.
But, I would love that Adrian, Lissa, Sonia, and Nina find a cure for their bad mood because of the spirit.- Sydney gets some bad-ass battles with the evil Witch.- Eddie and Jill, finally, end up together.
[4.5 Stars]A great ending to the series! The only reason it's not 5 stars is because I was very frustrated with Adrian throughout the book. Loved the surprises in this one!
It's over, it's finally over. I used to think that I just grew out of the Vampire Academy world.
(hide spoiler)]- And now a toast for daddy issues.- There is so much preparation for the final battle, and it's incredibly underwhelming.- Shit happens that changes the very foundation of a species, but we never get to see how it turns out.- So many awesome secondary characters and couples I actually care about that we don't get read more about.All that said, my biggest disappointment when it comes to this series is that Adrian and Sydney are not the characters I fell in love with in Bloodlines.
The worst thing about this book is that it feels like Adrian and Sydney lose the core of what makes them these complex, lovable characters.
What can i say? This was the perfect ending to the Bloodlines series, I loved every second of it and the way it ended was just amazing. It could have been a bit longer, it's only 348 pages long and it felt a bit rushed sometimes but besides that the story was great and I got to read about some of my favorite fictional characters of all time! I hope this is not the last time I'll be reading about Sydney, Adrian, Rose and Dimitri <3
