https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/38096424-the-ragged-edge-of-night
The judicious—and proper!—use of a foreign language in this novel works, unlike some authors who subscribe to the “Please, Monsieur, not zee bullet!” or worse, “Le tempête, it ess approaching” school of writing.Second, each character, whether the prominent ones of Anton Starzmann, Elisabeth Herter, and Father Emil, or the secondary ones to include the three Herter children, a few villagers of the nastier type, and other bit players are fully developed, distinct, and, best of all, unique.
A wonderful, wonderful novel about the struggles of an ex-friar in Nazi Germany, when he has to balance the needs of his family with the demands of his conscience to resist the regime amidst the ever-present fear of being seized by the secret police for his subversive activities.
It's just about a German like any other German from the time, but one that's determined to do his utmost to "get Hitler's goat" (as the author put it in her Note), showing that you didn't need big gestures, huge and daring assassination plots & rescues, Jew hiding, and so on, to oppose the Nazi party.
Not everyone’s cup of tea, but I felt this made this novel read like a lovely, almost poetic homily about life.
The characters were fleshed out & flawed—admitting they did not reach out to the Jews because they put their own children first—but redeemed their past weaknesses by finding the courage to act in loving, generous ways to those around them in spite of the personal cost.
Here are a few of my favorite quotes:“God opens every way for an earnest heart.”“I cannot help but know it.
But it’s better than gold, better than music, to know you made another person happy.
RaggedI loved this book and recommend it to readers who currently want to resist the ominous events presently occurring in our country.
I felt like I was forcing myself to understand much of the time as Anton flashes back to his friar days in a boy's school and forced by the SS into the German army.
I admit I am not a Catholic, not a religious person, but this book is definitely not for non-Catholics.
Every few pages Anton is thinking in his own mind and his own conscience as he relates everything back to God and his own Catholic perceptions.I would say this book is a great one for Catholics except for the flooding of metaphors.
An ex-friar marries a widow, and because I guess it's a romantic story or whatever, they take several years getting around to consummating the marriage, yadda yadda yadda, resist nazis via the majestic power of song.It's not terrible.
The author makes a respectable and sympathetic effort in tackling the issues of guilt, repentance, redemption, and the problem of evil in the world.
The power vacuum was filled in turns by guilt, fear, and pride - emotions that often went by the name of love but were not.
Nobody did anything in this story unless he or she felt guilty, afraid, or pride in being a good human/Christian/German.
It tells of how the Hawker comes to write this story, and how she compares OUR President Donald Trump to Adolph Hitler.
If that's who you are and how you think, read on, keep your head buried and keep listening to all the fake news, created to instill these horrible, ridiculous, fabricated comparisons.
Olivia Hawker, you should be ashamed of insinuating that AMERICANS armed with our constitution, with the greatest freedoms, liberties, and opportunities on earth, could compare with the atrocities of natzi Germany.
You are blessed with being a citizen of this great country, and should thank God everyday that you have the freedom to write what you think.
The content of the story mentions this fact, but the author has failed to realize that the losing party and candidate of 2016 wanted and wants to do the same thing to the American people, not the current victor of 2016.
The losing party and candidate of 2016 has already chosen to take and repeal 1st Amendment rights by seeking to only give one viewpoint of ideology, not the current victor of 2016, who calls out the bias in the print and news media.
The Ragged Edge of Night : The first 90% of the book was excellent and told of heroic people and families.
The "Historical Notes and authors remarks" at the end of the book was very interesting and brought out a lot of history of the family and town.
I guess she was trying to push her own political agenda or sell more books.
To hear the media, you would think we were all going to hell in a hand basket.
I was just minding my own business, listening to this book on my way to my meditation and relaxation group.
Great book!This was a great story. It was very well written and very engaging. I literally cried tears of joy at the end. And then to be reminded it is based on a true story made it that much better. Highly recommend this one, would give it more than 5 stars if I could.
No American can write a book about Germany as well as a German – take note!
The bombs falling on Stuttgart didn’t scare me.The author does try to create a subplot in which Anton works as a sort of spy but this is not well pulled off.
We don’t know what those messages are about or why they are so vital to the Hitler-assassination plot; we have to simply believe it because the author says so.
If this spy-work was so vital we need to know why, and why he would be informed of the final details of this plot (that it would be poison), why he, Anton, was so important.
Character-driven Excellence This is one of the best books I've read. Hawker's characters are believable, alive. The real people and their struggles, both physical and spiritual, transcend the setting in WWII Germany. When I read this story, I resonated with the humanity of all the people trying to survive during war.
I enjoyed this story of a mans' bravery against the Nazi's. However, when I read the authors commentary of why she thinks this applies to what is happening currently in the USA, I was extremely disappointed by her biased political tone. If she wants to speak publicly fine, but please leave it out of your book.I will never rad another of her books.
This is a perspective on the plight of Germans who did not support Hitler during WW2 and the hardship and fear that they had to live with.
Anton is a former priest whose order has been disbanded and untethered finds himself responding to a newspaper advertisement to marry a widow with three young children.
What happens next changes the life of Anton and those around him significantly.
He discovers a resistance movement that supports everything he believes in, but will his support of this group cost him more than he can imagine?In the same genre of The Book Thief and All the Light We Cannot See, it is a great story but not quite in the same league in my personal opinion.
Nice Story, Horrible Politics.The author manages to ruin a very nice story with a horrible political screed in post-story commentary. Thus, I cannot recommend this book.
Review 5 starsAlthough the pace was slower than many of my usual reads, the setting of a rural village in World War II Germany made for an underlying threat that drove the story forward.
The pace matched the reality portrayed.The influence of Hitler and his Nazis seeped into the story, although the main protagonist Anton Starzmann was building a new life with Elisabeth Herter, a widow with three children in rural surroundings.
His past as a Franciscan friar, whose pupils have been ‘relocated’ by the SS, haunts his gradual attempt to take a stand against the Nazi evil.Early on he hears a conversation that becomes fundamental:“Her companion is quick to answer, quick to defend.
I have mixed feelings about this book. It's moving and interesting subject matter, slightly bumpy start but finds a good rhythm. The afterword was interesting but left the impression that the author regretted some of her fiction vs non-fiction choices.
Put this on your special book shelf beside The Diary of Anne Frank and A Gentleman in Moscow. Add Timothy Snyder's On Tyranny. Don't forget the author's notes at the end. And don't look at a single blurb till you've read the book. How I envy you if you have yet to read a page of this golden gift of literature.
Great storyline and but I found the lyrical writing style disruptive to the flow and there was an unwelcome preachy element that kept poking through.
GAB The Ragged Edge of Night is an excellent historical novel set in Germany from September 1942 through May 1945, and following the lives of several Germans trying to stay ahead of the SS as they survive and do all they can to stop Hitler.
along with many Germans, they did what they could to fight from within against the The Ragged Edge of Night is the most comprehensive and sympathetic coverage of the everyday lives of the German people under the Nazi reign I have found.
I allowed myself to stop reading this book.
I love World War II fiction.
I thought the premise of this story worth checking out.
I understand the main character is a former friar but every one of Anton's thoughts go into some religious dissertation that really started to grate on me.
In my opinion this book cannot be compared to The Nightingale, All the Light We Cannot See or Beneath a Scarlet Sky all of which I read and enjoyed.
It's hard to read a book when you don't like or understand the main characters.
If the author hadn't gotten on her political anti-Trump soap box at the end, I would have given this a 4.5 star review.
Put this on your special book shelf beside The Diary of Anne Frank and A Gentleman in Moscow. Add Timothy Snyder's On Tyranny. Don't forget the author's notes at the end. And don't look at a single blurb till you've read the book. How I envy you if you have yet to read a page of this golden gift of literature.
I really wavered between giving this book five starts and the four I settled on.
My only problem was that there were times when she strayed into hyperbole, making observations that were outside or diverged from the story.
To find that this was written after the 2016 elections and is a direct rebuke to our current POTUS, makes perfect sense in retrospect.
This is one book that I wish I'd researched the origins of prior to reading it.
It is seldom that I truly feel that I can't put a book down but this was one that I could not.
I was THRILLED that this was based on a true story.
To believe that the US is actually headed towards Nazi Germany?
Yes, there are bad people here doing and believing bad things, but there aren't as many as you think and the media sensationalizes the ones who are bad.
It makes things worse when you believe that.
It seemed...selfish of her to say that, after everything Anton did.So, I would recommend that you read through to the end of the novel and stop there, knowing that it was based on true events.
As World War 2 books go, this is a gentle story, a sparkling bubble of hope in a land of darkness. We see tragedy secondhand so it is not as brutal and heartbreaking as others I have read. But the danger is always there. The author uses a different perspective of a small German village, and so we see the everyday German, going about their business, some kind, some oblivious, some eager to support the war machine. It is also a gentle and unusual love story. Recommended.
Historical fiction during WWII - definitely one of my favorite genres (if not my most favorite)I think the thing I like about these stories the best is the incredible strength and resilience that people had during a time so dark we cannot even imagine it.
This book is about Germans living in a small town under Hitler’s regime and their story of resistance - their never ending resolve to do the right thing even in the face of danger.
We can learn a lot from Elisabeth and Anton and Emil - if there were more people like them today our world would be a brighter place.
Yes. Read it. What a lovely, poignant, heartbreakingly joyful story. And that it’s a true story (with some fictional license) makes it even more remarkable.
Great storyThe book's beginning didn't capture my interest at first. But keep going! Historical fiction is at its best with this story. These characters will stay with you. The author's notes at the end about the real Anton interesting.
Anton answers the ad knowing with his vows from before, he is only there to help provide.
But coming to a new town, trying to find work in the middle of World War II is not easy.
But it is the doors outside his town that open, his job as a messenger for the Resistance begins, and the danger to the new family has is growing to love increases.Anton knows heartache and what this war has done to families, children, and those less fortunate.
