https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32075853-erotic-stories-for-punjabi-widows
It also has to be kept secret from the rest of the community and a group of hardline brothers who have set themselves up to police the morality and honour of women to ensure they stick to traditional expectations.
Nikki finds herself getting closely involved with the women, caught up in a new love affair, and untangling a mystery that brings her great danger.This novel is full of wit, warmth and humour.
This is a story of women finding the courage to express their sexuality and become both more decisive and more independent.
I so enjoy reading anything about India and Indian culture and when I saw this one, I knew I had to read it.Nikki is a young, modern Punjabi Indian girl living in London.
But Nikki didn't know what she wanted, but knew it was not law school.
One passage I so enjoyed was the telling of the phrase 'book regret'...where Nikki saw a book and wanted it so bad, but decided not to get it.
I do highly suggest this one if you want a fun story, to learn about Indian culture, and want to listen to a fabulous audio.
You will never look at ghee the same way again! The title hooked me, but it’s the story of the inner lives of these widows, all in perpetual mourning, that completely beguiled. What is advertised as a literacy class for women becomes an exploration of sexual experiences and desires and the author does a wonderful job of weaving their erotic stories into the narrative. At times rather amusing--the women’s use of produce to describe anatomy for instance--it is also touching and thought-provoking.
What is advertised as a literacy class for women becomes an exploration of sexual experiences and desires and the author does a wonderful job of weaving their erotic stories into the narrative.
At times rather amusing--the women’s use of produce to describe anatomy for instance--it is also touching and thought-provoking.Lest you think this is all one big bodice-ripping read, however, there is more than just eroticism here as the author explores identity, patriarchy, indoctrination and societal mores.
I found the characters enchanting, the writing entertaining and while it was slow to start, once the erotic stories are introduced the plot moves at a rapid pace.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/First let me take a moment to say that I carried this around for TWO DAYS at work and not one person asked me what I was reading. I can’t get in the stinking elevator or make a cup of coffee any other day without someone asking that question, but when I’m sitting on a goldmine of awkward title????? Nope . . . .  I don’t know how I planted the idea in my own head that this was going to be like The Joy Luck Club, but I sure enough though
When Nikki arrives on day two with a bag of workbooks and games from the local charity shop in order to begin her arduous task, Red Velvet: Pleasurable Stories for Women - a book intended to be a gag gift for Nikki’s conservative/wants to arrange her own marriage sister – becomes the focus of the widows.
It is then the women decide they would prefer a storytelling class – they will each make up stories and the one widow who knows how to write will transcribe them.
The story revolves mainly around Nikki, a first-generation Punjabi, born and raised in England.
She's a law-school dropout trying to earn some extra money by signing up to teach creative-writing classes at the Sikh temple.
What she doesn't know is that the students she gets are mostly illiterate Punjabi widows looking to kill the boredom and routine by engaging in lively, oral, sexy storytelling...
Of course, that's not all that there is to the story, it also deals with the challenges that multi-cultural people face when it comes to tradition, pressures of close-knit communities, family relationships, and so much more.This book reminded me of 
Love, sex, intimacy, and community.What’s not to like?How about oppression- or violence against women?
Punjabi widows didn’t like being thought of as chopped liver.
Could you blame them?Lots of fun, laughter & sexy steam...but it’s also a kaleidoscope of deeper themes to explore.......a hidden culture and religious traditions ........secrets kept & why.......education, (older illiterate women), ....arrange marriages,...
....a single Punjabi widow and the stigma of what that often means?........conflicts between old traditions and the modern world ...Mystery & murder........gossip ( universal theme)....
( universally theme)....The specialness of this book are the lovely women characters exploring their culture —wearing their vulnerability on their sleeves....with hopes & dreams.
The premise sounded amazing and liberating and everything you want when reading a take on a culture that's less familiar to you.
That being said, it was an enjoyable enough read.
I just wished there had been less things going on, less excerpts from the stories, less love stories...I'm not even sure, it just felt very bogged down in everything going on.
Should you buy it?: Despite me not loving it, I'm still going to say yes.
If it looks interesting enough to you, I encourage you to pick it up.
If you’re one of those people who “doesn’t read romance,” let me quickly say before you tune out that this book has so much going on beyond the steamy stuff.
This is one of those books that is hard to categorize because it does so many things (and does them all really well).(Also, if you don’t read romance, why do you hate fun?)Nikki is a modern girl who dropped out of law school and works as a bartender in a seedy London pub, much to her family’s chagrin.
At the first class, though, she discovers that many of the Punjabi widows enrolled in the class can’t read or write in English.
4 🍆🍆🍆🍆 sCulture, mystery, family expectations, and community among women providing acceptance and support to one another in an adopted country offering them the most important thing—choice.
The author “wanted to write about this place, and to explore the idea of women defying expectations and rewriting their own narratives.” Success!All this with healthy servings of vegetables which health organizations tell us should be a minimum of 3 per day.
I did not know that aubergine is another word for eggplant and courgettes another term for zucchini so we can include educational as well.
This was a great story with many themes.
It is set around the Sikh community of Southall, London.
It addresses the difficulties for young British Sikhs, born and raised here and developing different values to their Indian born parents.
It covers levels of illiteracy within the Sikh community, the gossip,lack of privacy and repressive quality within, but also the incredible support network that it can be.
There is a darker undertone too in relation to honour killings.The story is about the empowerment of a community of women and is wittily done.
One can smell the spices and look at the colourful saris and fabrics in stalls and bazaars.
The widows each of them widowed at a different age, each had a different experience in marriage, some had better marriages than others, and each widow brings a new story and a new spice to those classes.
The stories those widows tell, as they are storytellers, reveal a fantasy of sort, a hope, an image they have deep inside and long to let it be out in the public.
“His throbbing organ was the color and size of an aubergine and as she gripped it with her hands and guided it to her mouth he became so excited that his knees began to shake...” Nikki gasped and dropped the pages on the desk. The women were laughing loudly now and their voices had begun to echo down the corridor. “What's the matter?” “This is not the type of story I had in mind.”   Oh yeah - this book is full of dirty old women. Actually...back up and let me take the "dirty" out of that state
The women were laughing loudly now and their voices had begun to echo down the corridor.
Oh yeah - this book is full of dirty old women.
If you are a reader who does not enjoy reading adult content, the erotic stories are each woven separately throughout this book and are easy to identify and skip over if you so wish.
Overall, Erotic Stories for Punjabi Widows is a thoroughly enjoyable novel that uses fun humor to bring awareness to important subjects.
She can’t concentrate on driving, so she tells him, ‘let me just get to a small side street’.
HANDS DOWN BEST BOOK I HAVE READ ABOUT BEING BROWN IN MY LIFEwow this book was revolutionary.
assumed they were sexless?
assumed that they were frustrated?
the author in this book handed me a god damn mirror and made me think about honor, sex, judgement, and being indian.
i could not put the book down- i read it in 1 day.
instead nikki found herself in front of the community widows- ignored by society, deemed voiceless, and considered to be gossipy horrible women.
if you want a read that interrogates our unfair notions of honor on ALL WOMEN- i highly recommend.
plz plz read i swear to god.
Set in the Punjabi enclave of Southall in London, it takes a careful and entertaining look at the many issues faced by women living in that community.
When a woman doesn’t fit either of those roles (eg, women who wish to remain single [“spinsters”], women whose husbands have died and children have grown up) society isn’t quite sure what to do with them and they’re treated with disdain and suspicion.
But it’s not all throbbing aubergines and chiselled abs; as Nikki becomes more involved in the community she begins to uncover some dark secrets about girls who have gone missing, secrets that she can’t ignore…By turns hilarious, thought-provoking, and heartwarming, this book is a full-on page turner and I solidly recommend it.
Intrigued, I decided to give it a try.There are a few overlapping storylines, but the primary premise involves Nikki a 22-year old first-generation Punjabi woman living in London who has dropped out of law school and doesn't quite know what she wants to do with her life.
Through a bit of a twist (which I won't spoil) the widows decide that they'll forego the literacy lessons and verbally exchange creative stories of a certain (ahem) mature genre.
Readers should know that the widows' erotic stories are, well, quite erotic!
I loved this novel. Here on a snowy Saturday morning in Quebec, I felt myself instantly immersed into a universal story of strong female protagonists who no matter their age want to belong to their community and to be loved. Although Miss Modern aka Nikki took a bit of warming up before I really enjoyed her bits, it was enough to also meet all the tremendous people that Nikki encounters, especially, in her writing group.
I'll say, that I was in a rather busy staff room when I read that part, and I think it caused my coffee to go down the wrong pipe.This story is about an adult literary class that rather quickly turns into an erotic storytelling class, and to be honest, the stories are pretty hilarious, but at the same time, they are quite heated.
While I thought this was an amusing and a rather light hearted read, the plot wasn't written in enough depth for me, and to be honest, the characters were totally flat, and I didn't actually warm to any of them.
However, I'd just read it for the amusing erotic stories!
Nikki thinks she is going to teach them how to read and write English but she's in for a big surprise when they start "telling their stories"While this is happening we are also trying to figure out a mystery.
Romance is not something I read very often but this had just the right amount to keep it spicy but also keep you invested in the overall story.I would say pick this one up if you want a mystery that also has a little hot sauce to it!
When law-school dropout Nikki takes a part-time job teaching writing at a London gurdwara, she expects the women to write stories -- but not the kind that they turn out to be eager to tell!
What it mostly contains is a combination mystery/romance/self-discovery story, which work together to create a really charming and funny, yet suspenseful and occasionally terrifying book.
The only downside of the book for me was that the reveals at the end are a little icky and I’m not entirely sure I believed them, and the creepy plot thread with the Brotherhood, which I personally found really terrifying, is wrapped up much too simply.
though not exactly a prude, I don't relish people ( except GR brethren) thinking I read porn / erotica 2.
Thought it was a collection of erotic stories in the hue of 50 shades or somewhat and stayed away from it..till I read a glowing review somewhere else It amused me to think that Punjabi widows needed a separate set of erotic stories Then I understood that the stories were told by Punjabi widows...3.
The class slowly deteriorated into an erotica narrating session by various students.
The erotic stories narrated by the widows were more amusing than titillating .
these stories had a strong Indian background and morality 7.
It turns hilariously into an erotica-writing collective.
We get a romance, a variety of women's stories, a glorious lot of female friendship across ages and cultures, and some darker strands to do with male oppression and "honour" violence in the community.
I felt the murder plot was a bit on the thin side, and perhaps the empowerment through erotica a tad on the wish fulfilment side, but who cares.
This is a fantastic read, glorious Southall atmosphere, wonderful female friendships, sex positive, with kindness and love and courage and stuff working out if people just try.
Perfect summer reading.
I get why this was the March pick for Reese's Book ClubThe story starts with Mindi, the older, more traditional, Sikh sister who is a nurse and wants an arranged marriage, and Nikki, the younger, rebellious, westernized 22-year-old who works as a bartender while waiting for her dream job to show up.
We'd mark all the sex scenes so that no one would have to bother reading the story to find the good stuff - to Nikki and her BFF, Olive, as well as her relationship with Mindi.
It's far too precious for some readers but if you're one of the ones who loves British domestic fiction like I do, make this your next read.
Nikki is British born of Punjabi parents and to their consternation is single, lives alone, works in a Pub and embraces Western values.
Her older sister on the other hand has more tradition Punjabi values and is looking for an arranged marriage.
In a lot of ways this book is about Nikki reconciling this conflict within herself so she can choose her own direction in life.Then one day Nikki takes a job teaching writing to older women in the Southall Sikh Temple and helping them tell their stories.
The empowering nature of this story telling with have consequences for the men of the Southall community before the end of the tale.
This was a charming story about a young woman from a Sikh family in London who is hired to teach an English writing class but ends up helping a group of Punjabi widows write erotic stories. I really wanted to like it more since it did a lot of things I like books to do-- it taught me about another culture, it made me think, it addressed feminism in an interesting and compelling way-- but I didn't love the writing and I just never really settled into the story. Liked but didn't love.
A crime would be punishable by a jail sentence of definite duration rather than this uncertain length of family guilt trips.”Erotic Stories for Punjabi Widows is the third novel by Singapore-born author, Balli Kaur Jaswal.
Twenty-two-tear-old Nikki Grewal has found a job teaching creative writing to Punjabi women for the Sikh Community Association at the Southall Temple.
But the woman who employed her, Kulwinder Kaur has perhaps been less than honest: it turns out that most of these women can’t read or write at all, Punjabi or English.
4.5 stars! Hands-down, one of the funniest, best, most well-narrated audiobooks I've listened to in ages. NOTE: There are some STEAMY scenes in the stories the widows write and share - I'm normally not into that, but in this novel, it didn't bother me a bit. The narration is absolutely fantastic - I laughed until my sides hurt as the widows contemplated the best vegetables and/or fruits to use as descriptions for lady bits and man-parts. Serious laugh until you cry moments here, folks. I would totally recommend this - and would definitely recommend the audio if you can!
So my reading goal on June, was to read only books that were picked by Reese Witherspoons bookclub, therefore I read The Light we Lost, The Last Mrs. Parrish and Little Fires Everywhere and all of them were 5 stars books to me. However, I had my doubts with this one, because once I read the plot and the general premise, it didnt immediately catch my attention, cause I thought it was just a couple of old ladies talking raunchy and that was it. But considering my junes reading theme I gave it a ch
So my reading goal on June, was to read only books that were picked by Reese Witherspoon´s bookclub, therefore I read The Light we Lost, The Last Mrs. Parrish and Little Fires Everywhere and all of them were 5 stars books to me.
However, I had my doubts with this one, because once I read the plot and the general premise, it didnt immediately catch my attention, cause I thought it was just a couple of old ladies talking raunchy and that was it.
This book was amazing!!!
And finally, I must say that after having a month full of 5 stars books, I´ll keep on reading all of Reese´s bookclub picks without any hesitation!!
Today my book club met to discuss our second book of the 2018-2019 school year, Erotic Stories For Punjabi Widows. The discussion was short but rich. There was an overall consensus that Jaswal did an excellent job depicting the complexity of the Indian community in Southall. Nikki the main character of the story is a young modern Indian origin woman looking for her correct path in life. Go to 👉🏾 browngirlreading.com for the rest.
2.5, rounded up. This is rather an uneasy mix of romance, murder mystery, and feminist diatribe, but it all almost works. It's quick and breezy, but somewhat generic at the same time, despite the 'exoticism' of the Sikh/Indian milieu. And for a work of a major publisher, it is shockingly poorly copyedited, with missing, repeated and misspelled words scattered throughout.
It's a community I admit I had no idea existed, but one of the great uses of literature is, of course, to afford us pseudo-experiences of lives and places we could never normally experience.
And, to be a tad egocentric, you also end up learning a lot about your own community: what is innate to a place (in this case London) and what are assumptions particular to your lived experience.If that's a bit heavy it's also worth pointing out Erotic Stories for Punjabi Widows is a very funny book – not that it could be too furrow-browed with a title like that.
