https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/135074.Astro_Boy_Vol_1
The classic Astor Boy, and I had never read it! Better than I thought it would be, as I expected something silly, but it was very entertaining. Fast read, as much manga is, but this in a sense started it off for the west's intro to manga, as these were done in the mid-sixties…Fun stuff, manga for boys… amazing that he started here then also did Buddha, and the Adolph stories for adult readers… such a range!
Terribly unfortunate, and even violent, things happen to characters who do nothing but good, and just when you think things couldn't get any worse, they do.A lot of the characters aren't very impressive but I found I somewhat cared about where they would end up in the story.
And that's just a taste.Astro himself is a pretty good character.
All of these things are a common trait in the hero factor, but what makes this infinitely more interesting is the fact that astro is a child.
To see a child (even a robot one) do the things Astro does because he's the only one who can is kind of mind-blowing.
Neste primeiro volume editado pela Asa, ficamos a conhecer a origem do personagem em O Nascimento de Astroboy; lidamos com robots criados a partir de cães, numa conspiração para defender a lua de exploradores em O Regimento Hotdog, e assistimos a uma curiosa invasão da Terra por robots alienígenas vindos de um planeta extinto que, fiéis à sua programação, querem roubar metade da água do nosso planeta, em O Rapaz Planta.A simplicidade das histórias é sublinhada pelo traço, também simples e fugindo do realismo em direção ao cartoon.
If I was a ten year old boy then this book would get five stars.
I love the drawings - a little bit of Carl Bark's Mickey Mouse/Donald Duck influence and a little bit Fleischer Studios influence.
I love some of the whacky story ideas - Astro boy shoots guns from his butt – and character names and I love the intro's by Osamu Tezuka in his studio, I guess a bit like those Disney TV intro's of old.
Its split into four or five shorter stories but I can only read it in small chunks as it tends to be a bit repetitive in terms of scenarios.
I thought it was a really good book!
The entire series includes short added prologues by creator Osamu Tezuka, featuring a fictional version of the creator talking to the audience giving context, commentary and behind the scenes information about some of the stories.
It is a fun and sometimes touching if simple silly story involving dog cyborgs and the Moon.
This has one of the short prologues from 1975 with Tezuka's thoughts on animal cruelty.The last story is "plant people" a very short tale From New Year's 1961 about aliens who come to take our water with a poignant twist ending.
This story includes a one page prologue with Tezuka's thoughts on plant consciousness and a quick trivia quiz.
I don't consider myself a manga fan, so I was genuinely surprised how much I enjoyed reading this book. Yes, the format/translation leads to simpler text than one finds in a novel, but the story's simplicity enhances rather than diminishes its appeal. It doesn't hurt that Tezuka incorporates many of the SF ideas (robots, cyborgs, etc.) I enjoyed reading about growing up, either.I plan on tracking down his other Astro Boy volumes to see how his story telling/artistic style evolved over time, as well as his other titles.
One of the most poignant of origin stories: the scientist Temna creates a prosthetic son to take the form of his phantom pain, the loss of his own son, Tobio.The scientist’s deluded narcissism is starkly revealed when Astro can’t grow, and remains the shape of a boy. When he casts out the robot, Astro must find his identity among the stunted, egocentric people of Osamu Tezuka’s world, which is less futuristic than an animalistic foreshadowing of today.
me gustó. digamos que me hizo recordar a Pinoccio aunque no tan escalofriante. De alguna manera el autor de la ingenia para que aunque ya haya pasado tiempo desde que se publicó y muchas cosas han cambiado se sigue manteniendo la esencia y la fantasía no parece fuera de lugar aún en nuestro contexto-
Astro is a charming boy who is motivated to help. The stories are full of action, robots, and flying saucers. I enjoyed this book very much.The book also has an introduction and history of the Astro Boy manga that is interesting to read.
3.5 rounding up.
This one gets 5 stars purely for nostalgia's sake.

Given the fact that they are both scientists, Astro Boy's two parental figures seem to represent the fact that science can be used for both good and evil.The bulk of this volume lies in The Hot Dog Corps storyline.
Astro Boy gets involved and fights with the Hot Dog Corps all the way from Japan, the arctic, and the moon.This story is both silly and cheesey in an endearing sort of way, but it also has some interesting and insightful moments as well.
1. Atom BoyMula-mula cerita dibuka dengan meledaknya bumi dan manusia melarikan diri dengan menggunakan roket raksasa.
Pasti karena yang ngarang orang Jepang ^^Berabad-abad (eh apa cuma bertahun-tahun ya?hmm), ah nda jelas, yang pasti tau-tau mereka menemukan suatu planet.
Dimulai dari eksperimen Profesor Tenba, si Pencipta Atom, yang berhasil membuat zat yang mampu merubah seseorang menjadi debu.
Mahluk GasCerita dibuka dengan Atom yang dihina karena tidak punya orang tua.
Maka Dokter Ochanomizu membuatkan orang tua buat Atom.Lalu Tamao yang berubah menjadi pencuri dan perampok.
Dan terjadilah perang manusia lawan robot.Bagaimana cara Atom menyelesaikan masalah ini?5.
Dan mengendalikan mereka untuk mencegah pembangunan pertokoan.Apa yang dilakukan Atom Boy untuk mengatasi masalah ini?
For example, in the beginning of the manga there is this young boy driving a car.
The plot is just series of events that happen to our protagonist, Astro Boy and they are kind of boring and lame.
They’re predictable and the villains are not really that interesting and can sometimes be kind of stupid.
Astro Boy is the only thing about this manga I actually enjoyed.
Just keep in mind that it was made in the 50’s so the plot and the characters are kind of old fashioned and not that complex.
Good versus evil sides are clearly drawn, and Dr. Tezuka inserts random distractions for comic relief (which I didn't really get, but it's good to know why they're there anyway.).This volume includes the Astro Boy creation story and follows him to school where he falls into a plot to sabotage Japan's rocket program while trying to help his teacher, Mr. Mustachio, recover his stolen dog.
This Dark Horse edition includes an informative editor's note that helps place the Astro Boy phenomenon in context and provides background information useful for fully appreciating Dr. Tezuka's storytelling.I enjoyed this; I can't help but smile seeing Astro Boy smiling up from the cover up in space, eyes wide and arms outstretched, ready to take on the world.
The special-powered humanoid robot Astro is a hero who, unlike humans, only knows how to do good.
One part in particular of the first volume that I really liked was when Dr. Ochanomizu asked the little hero Astro what his progress was in his mission to decoy the tyrant Queen and her Hot Dog Corps from their plans to claim sole control of the moon, and eventually the whole world.
It is these out-of-nowhere little diamonds (pardon the pun) like these^^^^^ that have me very excited to uncover the multiform story-telling power of this genius man.
In many ways he's the Fassbinder of the Manga world in that he produced a lot of work as well as being consistant in its vision and pushing the envelope."Astro Boy" has been a childhood favorite, and I am enjoying it even more now as an adult.
Story of a robot who was made to look like a mad professor's dead son and abandoned when the 'father' realized that this is not his son.Kind of heavy and tragic for a comic, yet the characters in the Astro Boy family are quite funny and witty.
For instance I have sort of a sexual passion for Astro Boy's robot sister.
Quite the shock to discover that Astro Boy holds up as great sci fi, all these years later, even though I am not 3 years old anymore.
Astro Boy menyajikan fantasi dengan aroma hi-tech. Cukup mengagumkan mengingat Osamu Tezuka pertama menerbitkan bukunya ini sebelum masa kecanggihan informasi tahun 70-an. Kisah pertama menceritakan seorang pembunuh berdarah dingin bernama Topeng Hitam. Karena ibunya tewas dalam perang manusia vs robot, Topeng memiliki dendam kesumat terhadap mereka. Ia lalu berusaha menghabisi para robot yang saat itu memiliki hak-hak yang sama dengan manusia di perusahaan dan pemerintahan Jepang.Kisah kedua, mengetengahkan Hitling. Si pemimpin tiran yang berusaha menciptakan mesin keabadian agar ia dapat memerintah negerinya selama-lamanya.Kisah ketiga, menceritakan serbuan alien bengis pemakan logam ke bumi, yang ternyata memiliki kelemahan alergi terhadap manis gula.
This is a cute series so far, but I'm a bit surprised by some of the content, especially considering it was written for children. (view spoiler)[For example, the story of Pero...we learn that Pero was a dog, but was kidnapped, skinned (alive? I'm not sure), and had his nervous system transplanted into a humanoid robot body so that he could be a killing machine. He finds his skin, has no idea why he feels such an attachment to it, and then refuses to give it up. Pretty intense, if you ask me! (hide spoiler)]
Surprisingly enjoyable! I read this just for a sense of history, but was delighted when I found the story fun and light--and not overly trite or crappy. Sure, the story is full of holes and easy outs, but it does such a good job of being light that it doesn't suffer much from these shortcomings. I'd probably give two stars if this was a novel, but how can one not enjoy a cartoon of a robot kid with machine guns in his butt?
I really love "Astro-Boy", it's one of the greatest (if not the greatest) comic book/graphic novels ever created. It's sad really, the fact that such a great comic cant seem to get a good and faithful adaption of itself on the big screen... but at least we have the original comic series, which is By far among my most beloved comics ever... strike that, "Astro-Boy Vol.1" is my most beloved comic. Bar none.
Tezuka is considered the father of Manga and apart from the first story about the creation of Astro Boy, the stories were first printed in the early to mid sixties. The stories have the basic good vs. evil theme like a lot of comics from that time. I love the styling of Astro Boy though, especially the guns that shoot out of his butt (seriously!). I think I'm going to look for a T-shirt....
Really actually quite a revolutionary children's book, certainly a classic, thought provoking in a way that such books rarely are, sometimes it reads as mechanistic as astro boy in its story telling, and a little too dry and a tad stuffy for its own good, none the less excelent, very Asimov.Taking me rather a long time to read it though.
i thought i should read some Astro Boy after finishing the first volume of Pluto. the experience is like that of reading Tintin, which is to say i don't get the attraction, the humor, or much of the plot. a lot of the stories were more mature than i expected. i enjoyed the odd 'The Hot Dog Corps'. eventually i will find some Tezuka i take to. but this is not it.
I'm glad to have read the first volume of this "classic" manga. Sadly, it's just not my cup of tea. Felt disjointed, and I only found a plot line to follow half-way through the book. I can appreciate that some people feel a bit of nostalgia about the character, having seen him in cartoons when they were kids. But since I never saw those, I don't have any attachment to him.
Seems more dated and simplistic than other Tezuka works. Makes sense, I suppose, since it is older and meant for kids. I've rarely been interested in longer-running serial manga, and that streak continues. I won't be returning for the rest.
We have Astro Boy Vols 1 - 10Don't miss the opportunity to experience this landmark series, never before available in America, each volume featuring over 200 pages in an affordable and convenient pocket-sized format as currently collected in Japan!
