https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/544354.Nutrition_and_Physical_Degeneration
The origin of this protective factor is provided in nutrition and is directly related to the mineral content of the foods and to known and unknown vitamins particularly the fat-soluable.” p 301As an example, the nutrition for children living in a poor district in Cleveland, OH was improved for one meal per day.
So shocking to see such strong evidence that all orthodontic needs are NOT genetic but actually evidences of nutritional deficiencies IN UTERO.
Isolating variables in human being living habits is next to impossible and why spend all your time trying to do that to cure sick people when instead you can go hunting for healthy people and learn from them?
I don't think he has the evidence to prove that nutritional deficiencies in utero also cause criminals and other problems.
It does not mean he is wrong, just that he really didn't spend much time researching that or gathering enough evidence to support his theory.
This is the best book I've ever read. The amount of research, depth of knowledge, and pictures that capture more than words can describe makes a very though provoking read. Forget everything you have head about nutrition from so called experts over the last 60 years. This is the only book you need.
Modern diets have tended to focus exclusively on the former, which means that the vegans are right, in a way - meat does present serious risks when it comes from the feedlot system, but a diet that contains no animal products whatsoever not only cannot deliver vitamins and minerals efficiently, but has been rejected by the primitive cultures of the world, who have not suffered tooth decay, degenerative disease, or mental retardation in the process.I can't think of a book I'd be more likely to recommend in the near future than this one.
Price claims NO PERFECT DIET, but seeks to articulate ideal common principles of the diets he examined.The principles of health, extracted from fine specimens of "primitive" peoples, include:1.
Sea foods, greens, sprouts, whole grains, cold fermented foods, dried foods, organ meats, cod liver oil, mineral-dense butter oil (from fast growing grasses)....
I would posit that a vegetarian diet is ALSO possible, and if Price had access to more information on mushrooms, which have more protein than meat AND zero calories, he too would gladly embrace that possibility.
But the really interesting stuff was his data on physical development in people who had gone from traditional (aka "primitive") diets to modern diets and then back again.
Children born under the primitive diets were healthier, stronger, and had resistance to cavities, while children born under the modern diets had stunted bone development, high disease (tuberculosis was particularly common) susceptibility, and low cavity resistance.There are lots of interesting tidbits about the cultures studied as well, like the Maori school children who would run to the beach at lunchtime, make a bonfire, dive for lobster, then have quite a seafood feast before returning to class.
Interesting stuff, but not as relevant to the modern reader as it might seem. There's a world of difference between being raised on whole foods in a pre-industrial environment with plenty of exercise VS. being raised on processed foods and switching to whole foods. The latter can actually be harmful, depending on the circumstances. Overall, this book is an interesting source of information, but somewhat poor source of dietary guidance. I recommend the research of Matt Stone instead (or in addition); it's much more relevant.
Weston A. Price is a master scientist. He traveled the world with his wife, Indiana Jones style, but instead of ancient relics, he searched for ancient foods. He found the key to ending chronic disease!... but no one listens because if we were to practice what he found, food lobbyists and manufacturers, ad companies, commercial farmers, and most importantly Monsanto & Big Pharm would be out of business.
The people with crappy teeth ate a “modernized” diet, including white flour, refined sugar, canned vegetables, jams, and marmalades.
Since people perceived white flour to be a desirable luxury food, they eagerly consumed it.Gundry noted that the new process eliminated both the fiber-rich bran, and the germ, which was rich in oil and vitamins.
In numerous locations, 20 years after the arrival of white flour and white sugar, primitive people started to suffer from heart disease, hypertension, diabetes, gallbladder disease, and colitis.You are what you eat!Mintz, Sidney W., Sweetness and Power — The Place of Sugar in Modern History, Penguin Books, New York, 1985.
Cavities can be healed (easier while young than old), teeth can be remineralized, and what we eat has a direct effect on our health (I already knew that part of course, but never read it this way before).
This book is a fascinating story of a dentist in early last century who traveled to pockets of people still eating their age-old ancestral diet.
He found that their traditional diet, widely different in content depending on the area, equaled good health, including healthy teeth.
So this book, old though it is, is influencing dentists today.
A sometimes racist, often subjective, occasionally factual, outdated, repetitive scientific read. This is what you get, I guess, reading 1st person biological science from the 1930s. Nevertheless, this book is fantastic in 3 ways: [1] It shows us what science used to think was correct; [2] excellent descriptions of "primitive" diets (the delight of most readers of this book); [3] Can also be read as an anecdote-filled nutritional travelogue.Found myself skimming entire sections. Overall, an overrated book. Not sure I'd recommend this one, unless you're pretty primed up about human nutrition.
His focus was to find societies untouched by Western society who thus still existed totally on a diet of indigenous foods.The prologue states that Price proved conclusively that dental decay is caused primarily by nutritional deficiencies and “that those conditions that promote decay also promote disease”.
So I would recommend it mostly to dentists and others absolutely interested in dental matters.To sum up, Price’s basic tenet is that dental decay and disease as a whole are caused mainly by nutritional deficiencies.
Fascinating account by a dentist who traveled the world in the 1930-40s to examine communities which remained isolated from modern food and diet (refined flour, sugar, processed oils and meats). He found not only remarkable dental health (a paucity of cavities and lack of crowded teeth) he also found that heart disease, cancer and even diseases like inflamed gall bladders were rare. Within one generation of eating "modern foods" - dental health markedly deteriorated, as did general health. If yo are interested in learning more about the connection between diet and health - this is a classic.
Mr. Price assumed that the theory of the land bridge to north america following the ice age was infallible so all the native population were from common ancestry and therefore their regionally physical differences were entirely based on nutrition.Modern DNA testing reveals that the indigenous populations of the Americas are from varied regions of the world who, most likely, arrived at different times and locations.If you can get past this distraction there is an amazing wealth of nutritional research in this book.If you are interested in nutrition like me, you should also check out my other two favorite books on the subject:The China Study by Thomas Campbell and, T.
Dr. Price presents in this work documentation of the detrimental effects on health, bone structure and fertility that are seen when modern foods (sugar, white rice, white flour, canned foods, jams, lean muscle meat, vegetable oils), replace traditional foods (liberal use of sea foods, organ meats, eggs of many species of animal and fish, full-fat dairy from cow, goat and camel raised on fast growing grasses on mineral-rich soil, freshly cracked and ground whole grain breads).This book is at its best when he documents his travels in the late 1920s through mid 1930s.
Over and over again he found that no matter what the race, the isolated people who were eating their traditional nutrient-dense foods had excellent dental and overall health, whereas members of the same race who instead ate processed foods had poor dental and overall heath.
Please keep in mind that if we all avoided the damaging processed foods (like sugar, white flour, and vegetable oils), ate nutrient-dense foods, and as a result had excellent health, we would not need dentists, orthodontists, or doctors, just as the isolated people studied by Dr. Price didn't need them.
2. They compared this data with the modernized representatives of these groups (mostly eating white people's imported food)3.
5. The modernized people were eating white flower, polished rice, food rich in sugar and canned goods6.
The primitive tribes, free from the dental caries and with perfectly formed dental arches were thriving on their native diets .(these included mostly wild animal (including their organs), wild fish, blood, diary products).7.
The main reason that the primitive people can keep their teeth in such a splendid form is the food they are eating is rich in all sorts of vitamins and minerals.
It opened up a whole new world of learning for me about health.
Dr. Price traveled around the world in the 1930's to find primitive societies who were as isolated as possible.
He also noted that the common practice of removing wisdom teeth in modern society was something that wasn't practiced in these primitive cultures because they simple grew in the way they were supposed to.
In addition, it also gives a glimpse into the wisdom of the primitives and show us a little how we can live in such a way that we can get many of the same benefits that they received.Great book!!!
I believe he would appreciate the updating of his work based on the drastic changes in our bodies and our food that have occurred in the past 100 years since he lived."http://drlwilson.com/ARTICLES/PRICE.htmhttp://drlwilson.com/ARTICLES/PRICE,%...Also, this: http://www.drlwilson.com/Articles/FAT...Do not overdo on fats, even the best quality ones.
Today, some people suggest eating much more, such as those who follow Weston Price, the Paleo diet or the GAPS diet.
Also, Fats feed some parasites.
Eating too much fats also feeds parasites, especially worms and flukes, in the body.
Often, the people who love fats and oils have parasites who are calling for food.
This is why some people recommend eating so much fat, not realizing they are doing this to feed their liver flukes and worms.
Dr. Price (actually a DENTIST...not an MD) wrote this in 1939 after studying the effects of various diets on isolated, primitive peoples.
He describes is great detail (with insightful pictures) how our diet effects our health.
I am the exact type of person who SHOULD be a health-nut...unfortunately, I read as many cookbooks as other books and love trying new recipes and experimenting with ingredients.
Even if it may not be good for me, I want to try out that new chocolate cake recipe I read in a magazine.
Maybe someday I'll have the will-power to convert to whole foods and health...that day isn't today.


Have you ever wondered why we experience tooth decay? How about why we are so vulnerable to diseases? This book, written in the 1930s, is an amazing study about nutrition. It is hard not to believe every word in this book -- Dr. Price visits isolated communities throughout the world and learns why they are free from all the degenerative diseases that were prevalent in the 1930s and even more so today. Just read it.
Probably one of the most important books that noone knows about. MUST read if you are a type of person that just simply gives a f*** about things.
A must read for everyone!
This is a really long book, very dense...it'll take a while to get through.
I was given this book by one of my IB students - and the book has really influenced me in a positive way, in regards of nutrition and food stuff. I have been always feeling that food is important - that you are what you eat. However I did not pay much attention about it though Ive been trying to keep my food balanced and of some quality (as I am a blood donor). But this book enlightened the topic and brought broader knowledge about what I do eat as well as humans. Maybe it would sound as I becam
But this book enlightened the topic and brought broader knowledge about what I do eat as well as humans.
We can discuss this later and somewhere else.Putting aside that the book was written at the beginning of 20th century, it is a complex study about nutrition and how it influenced human body/facial/mental development.
Price made a deep and broad research about nutrition of modern civilizations (Westerners) and "undeveloped" cultures (Others/tribes).
He mainly focused on teeth quality, then physical and mental conditions of humans from mentioned cultural environments.
I understood how much can food affect our body and mental development.
To sum up his findings, eating modern, processed foods will make you a deformed, cavity-filled reject.This book could have been replaced with one decent spreadsheet.
Always with the same finding (eating modern foods will rot your teeth, and eating a natural diet will make you strong like wonderwoman).
But, considering modern technology and dietary thought are what was to blame in the book, it can't be too much of a surprise.Great rule of thumb:"The fact should always be emphasized that foods as Nature makes them have much more nutritional value than after they are processed so that insect life cannot live on them.
I read this book thanks to Blinkist.The key message in this book:Because imported, processed food is often stripped of nutrients, we should avoid eating it as much as possible.
This will help you get the most vitamins and minerals with which to maintain a healthy body and strong teeth.Actionable advice:Make healthier choices at the supermarket.The next time you’re in the supermarket, buy whole milk instead of semi-skimmed, whole wheat instead of white bread, fresh fruit and vegetables instead of tins.
In fact, buy everything as fresh as possible.
You should also eat the marrow from bones, and the eggs of fish and birds.
One of the best books on nutrition that I've read in a while. While the book itself is quite old and some of the research is outdated, main ideas are very interesting and thought-provoking. It caused me to reevaluate how I look upon my daily diet, not just in terms of "fullness", calories and protein/fat/carb balance ("quantity"), but in terms of minerals and vitamins ("quality") which common modern foods are frequently lacking.
