https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2277378.The_Cruelest_Month
Why do I like this woman and this band of lunatics?First there's the thing about the nice small village which just happens to have the highest known murder rate per capita in the entire world.
Maybe it's the whole wise and paternal Inspector Gamache thing leading his adoring band of rejects, especially the rude girl with her hair constantly in the soup and crumbs on her blouse, who doesn't listen and who nobody likes, including her parents.
(Like the girl, after you wash the soup out'a her hair.)Go figure!
Reading Luise Penny’s books transports me in the idyllic village of Three Pines and fills me up with peacefulness and love for the simple things.
As always, inspector Gamache comes to investigate and to eat an Egg Benedict or two at Gabri’s and Olivier’s bistro.
The first one is the spookiness/supernatural aura of the old house, the second is the investigation of the strange death and the third one, which is the most prominent, is the rebirth of the Arnot case.
However, I find it unbelievable how inspector Arnot got to do the evil thing he ended up doing and also the reason behind the treason of inspector Brebeuf.
(non-spoiler alert here -- I'm including a few quotes in my review below, but I promise not to spoil any important surprises from the book!)I am docking this book 1/2 star because Penny conflated two different species of plants which actually are not at all similar in the way Penny claimed -- which turned out to be important to the plot, since one plot twist hinged on it.
Otherwise, this would be a 5 star read all the way.Aside from my irk, this is a lovely book.
In this case, the plot is filled with an intriguing web of secrets, envy, and jealousy that affect everyone from the smallest side character to Gamache himself -- but always Penny leaves us with hope and love as well.Overall, great book.
Louise Penny dazzles with yet another novel in the Chief Inspector Armand Gamache series.
Highly recommended for the reader who likes ‘quaint’, yet intense, mysteries full of Canadian references throughout.Louise Penny’s novels have proven to be wonderful for a binge, as I am fully committed to the stories and characters found therein.
She chose this novel to do so, tossing Chief Inspector Gamache into the centre and using his love of family as an Achilles heel.
Penny permits the reader to see where things went wrong for Gamache and how, all these years later, those within the Sûreté are still trying to hunt him.
Although there is some emotional benefit, as certain events are more meaningful depending on person, ultimately, it feels like trickery.
Ganache is no Poirot, using the little grey cells to piece together the events of the night and the characters of all involved.
But read this very clever bit that so nicely blends character, uncomfortable emotion and humor:"Inspector Jean Guy Beauvoir watched as the last of the Crime Scene team packed up...
He'd never admit it, of course, but Jean Guy Beauvoir had felt something growing...
Jean Guy Beauvoir felt he was being hollowed out.
What fun!The first one, on Good Friday, didn’t stir anything, so they decide to hold a real seance at the old Hadley house, the scene of some pretty awful activities in the previous Three Pines mysteries.
His old pal and boss at the Sûreté du Québec assigns Gamache to head to Three Pines with some agents and find out what happened.He takes Agent Yvette Nichol with him, much to the distress of his loyal, adoring offsider, Agent Jean Guy Beauvoir, who loathes Nichol, which is understandable.“Agent Nichol seemed to collect resentments, collect and even manufacture.
It was harrowing to see these characters I've invested so much in suffering from blindness of the spirit, self-inflicted, attempting to shun painful knowledge.(Kath--re A Certain Party I indicated admiration for--you were right, ew.)Being a murder mystery, one knows from the outset that one is being set up to sympathize with a character who later proves to be a murderer, doubtless to one's shock and horror.
I need some time off, back reading about the Cathars and how the Pope and his fellow Satanic Minions tortured, murdered, and vilified their fellow beings for the greater glory of Jesus.
Winner of the Agatha Award for Best Novel in 2008, the Cruelest Month is Louise Penny's 3rd in her Chief Inspector Armand Gamache series.
I started this series recently and have found the books to be one of the best in the murder mystery gendre.
The books not only engage you in a mystery, but allow you to get an inside glimpse of the characters in a lovely, poetic way.The Cruelest Month centers around a seance in the scary old Hadley house where no one wishes to tread.
Heartbreaking is the betrayal by an unexpected source for Armand Gamache.The audiobooks are the best way to go with the series as far as I'm concerned.
You’ll have to read the book to find out> I must say I agree.The Line – ” One was dead and one was left behind, one again.”The Sinker – This passage about Armand Gamache intrigued me.
Armand Gamache found murderers by following the trail of rancid emotions.As the third in a series I was expecting the same ol’.
The Cruelest Month turned out to be a pleasant surprise.
Yes, there were the comforting things I grew used to from having read the other stories, characters that I knew and liked, a glimpse of the daily life in Three Pines, a mystery and murder to solve.
But it was the innocent séance at Clara and Peter’s house after dinner that turned talk to exorcising the evil at the old Hadley house.
The séance would remove all evil they hoped…Chief Inspector Armand Gamache was celebrating Easter Sunday with his family when he took the call which would once again send him to the quaint old village of Three Pines.
Was it murder, or did the person literally die of fright?The Cruelest Month is another highly entertaining crime mystery (and 3rd in the Chief Inspector Armand Gamache series) by Louise Penny.
I am a book hopper.
I read a variety of genres and usually have about 4 books on the go at the same time and like to read a chunk of each every day if I can.
Well I started this last night and basically read it straight through.
These are not the stories of serial killers or madmen, but fermenting and smouldering resentments, brought to action.
More than the crimes of Three Pines, what absorbed me too was the corruption story around the Surete and the campaign against Gamache.
A thoroughly engrossing read.
Absolutely LOVED this book. The stakes are continuing to rise. I continue to fall in love with the good, decent, wonderful Inspector Gamache. This book felt a little twistier than the first two. I liked that. Can't wait to keep going in the series!
Chief Inspector Armand Gamache and his team return to Three Pines, a small village outside Montreal, to investigate a bizarre death.
The séance has barely begun when Madeleine Favreau collapses, apparently dead of fright.Was this a natural death?
But he is a very patient man and knows how to unlock secrets.Readers of this series know that previously Gamache arrested a Sûreté officer, Superintendent Arnot, for murder.
Armand Gamache must deal with these events while trying to solve the death of Madeleine Favreau.In this story the reader gets better acquainted with the characters in the series.
I don't like the head hopping and her plot in this book seemed implausible.
The whole thing about the Arnot case and the vendetta against Gamache didn't ring true to me; nor did the notion that every single person in the book seems to believe that the Hadley house is actually haunted.
And Penny's character portrayal is weak.
But on Amazon, readers say the series starts to get better with Book 4, so I'll keep trying.
I do love Gamache, idealized though he is.
Clearly, Penny has some gift as a storyteller, because I continue to love this series.
Waiting for someone to be killed so Gamache can appear and the book can take off.updated 9/16/13 ...
When Gamache is on the scene, clarity accompanies him.
If this was my first exposure to the Gamache series, I would have put the book away unfinished.updated 9/29/13 ...Having said what could have been better, I still found this a very enjoyable read.
I am still (after 3 books) not fully enamored with the strange Three Pines residents, but the stories are good and the in-fighting among the police is very well presented.

Previously on Goodreads, my review for book 2I think this is my favorite in the series, so far.Ruth got her duck.
I know small town life and while it's not quite like this, typically, I can feel how this particular dynamic was created and how it sustains itself.I was surprised to find Gamache's storyline going as far as it did.
I don't know if it is resolved, for this portion, at least, or not but I didn't expect it to go so far in one book.
There's a Sherlock Holmes/Moriarty thing going on, though Gamache is much less asshole-ish or drug addicted than Holmes.I had the killer wrong this time.
Loved it. Some of the issues brought forward from the first two books are kind of resolved in this third book in a dramatic way.
Няма да ми омръзне да хваля Луиз Пени и книгите от поредицата за инспектор Гамаш , тъй като всяка следваща е по-добра от предходната. Повече за Жестокия месец ще откриете тук http://booumouse.blogspot.bg/2018/02/...
I love Gamache.
An illustration of this is the incident in the book when Gamache notices a native woman, a Cree, standing in front of the Le Chateau Frontanac Hotel protesting.
She has raised money to seek help in investigating the disappearances and deaths of Cree youth, including her son.
He begins an investigation which makes him dangerous enemies.This is the subplot of this book.
Gamache's investigation reveals many many secrets and he is relentless until her solves the case.
I give this 4.5 stars, because at the beginning of the book, I was a bit lost.
Book 3 ... truly enjoyed it!
3/5; BThis was my first Inspector Gamache story which I read after having no less than three people in one week recommend I read this series. I really enjoyed the portrayal of the Inspector as well as many of the characters in the town of Three Pines. There might have been an element of too much perfection in the town but that's ok. It was a good story.
The mystery in this story was decent, but the beauty of Penny’s writing, I believe, lies in the way she can take a theme and thread it through more than just the murder plot.
There’s much more to this writing than just the words on the surface.
I was anxious to get the whole story, but disappointed with how it fell out in the end.
I love Three Pines.
I love its people.
Louise Penny has created a lovely, varied cast of characters, with wonderful chemistry between them.
This 3rd installment in the Inspector Gamache is set during Easter. This time the crime committed at three Pines involves the spooky Hadley house, a séance, and a psychic. This novel does involve a lot of Inspector Gamache's backstory which at first I found a bit distracting but by the end I was 100% interested in both the crime and the backstory. This may not be my favorite so far, but I do love all the characters in Three Pines. I am definitely looking forward to continuing this series.
We don't know for sure if it's murder, but Armand and his team is called onto the scene to investigate.We deal with a lot of things this book, but ultimately Penny focuses on love and jealously.
I think I only got bored because I was just over the Three Pines characters at certain points.
Some of these characters have been dealing with murder for a good decade I think.
We hear the fact that the village itself is a warm and loving place, but that is why bad things keep occurring to blot it out so to speak.
Louise Penny continues to grow as a writer in her third book about the members of the village of Three Pines and Chief Inspector Armand Gamache.
The members of the village that we have previously met; Ruth, the crabby old poet, Clara and Peter, the artist couple, Myrna, the bookstore owner, and Gabri and Oliver, the gay innkeepers, are all back.
Peter's jealousy, Ruth's surprising compassion, Oliver's growing frustration with Gabri, Inspector Beauvoir's love and respect for Gamache are just the beginning.A fifth star would have been given if Penny didn't interupt her denouemont for some over the top thrilleresque gun play.
The Cruellest Month (or Cruelest, for you 'mericans) is the third entry in Louise Penny's Gamache series.
I lay blame at the feet of Blake Crouch, whose Dark Matter stayed in my head days after finishing it.
Damn you, Crouch.However, it was still nice to return to the village of Three Pines and gain about 50 pounds vicariously through the characters' belt busting meals.
Nice, Louise.
Even more exciting is that her latest, (and 12th!) which was released a couple of weeks ago, has soared to the top of the NY Times Best Seller list and she was already 70,000 words into the next.
This is a cozy mystery series with more depth than the typical cozy.
There are many recurring characters I'm looking forward to learning more about, and there is always humor to lighten the grim moments of a murder investigation.
I've always liked recurring villager Ruth Zardo, but if it's possible, I love her even more after this volume.
I always knew she was a softie underneath.)I'm looking forward to continuing on with this series.
So many reasons to enjoy this series, and if any of this sounds good, "Still Life" is the first.
Who would have guessed that a book series about murders would bring me so much reader-ish (yes, I made up that word) joy? I have never wanted so much to live in a small town in Canada full of murderers LOL! Ok, so only three murderers so far, but this series has 13 books total so far and counting, so that number is destined to keep going up. I'm officially putting the first book of this series on my favorite series shelf! I can pretty confidently say I will eventually read all of them.
I love Three Pines.
