https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/51144.Blue_Ruin
I'm kind of embarrassed to admit that I read this, but I found some Grace Livingston Hill at the library and picked them up for nostalgia's sake.
I used to read her books when I was young finding them in my parents' used bookstore.
Hill's books should be read in small doses.
Having said that however, I must admit there are lessons to be found in them.
As a Christian, it is good to be reminded of how a true Christian life looks and that my life continues to need some tweaking to be in alignment with that kind of life.
Excited to be home from college, and ready to resume the romance with the same man she'd kind of been promised to in high school, she never took into consideration that her high school sweetheart would change.Maddening in that we spend most of the book on him, and not anywhere near enough time on Lynette, or on her fabulous journey (I really really wish I could have seen more of this...) we have what feels somewhat like a sermon on what happens when you let "just a little bit of sin" into your life.
I actually really enjoyed this story. The other books I've read by this author have just been okay, but I really felt like she did a good job with the characterization in this one. The characters were a bit one-dimensional, but that really did make it easier to commiserate with certain aspects of the story. I sympathized with Lynette and experienced a genuine pain and shock right along with her when Dana Whipple, the young man she had always planned her future with, changed so drastically.
Love this author.
I don't remember much, but I know it wasn't one of my favorites of GLH's books. I think it was one of the first I read of hers.
Hill, Grace Livingston
Great lessons from this old style book. Always loved Grace Livingston Hill stories.
Love her books.
I read the 1928 edition (complete with crumbling pages) as a sort of walk down memory lane/getting myself in the groove for my one line in 1928 for "Its a Wonderful Life" as put on by our local theatre guild.
It's hokey, that's for sure-- with the heroine's magic biscuit making skills and the bad girl's flapper 'tudes.
Honestly, in today's society the only thing really wrong with Jessie Belle is that she's not the heroine.
Also, when Hill made bad guys, she made them bad guys.
Those darn flappers will be the ruination of our nation's moral fiber yet!
Blue Ruin is one of my absolutel favorite books.
No matter how many times I read it, it never fails to speak to my heart.
This sweet historical romance may have been written before my grandmother was born, but it shows that things just don't change.
People don't change.
God doesn't change.
Christians still have the same battles today as they did when Adam walked the earth.
The scenery has changed, the context has not.If you're going through a valley, or have been through one, you'll see your life, and the lives, and choices, of those around you reflected in the pages of this wonderful story!
Happy endingI gave a score three because of some of the goings-on prattling on about nothing. I didn't like about the book because I had to skip over some parts because it was just too much what I like about the book was that she came to herself realizing the man she loves all her life wasn't worth it but he was still conceited and to himself picking it was more than actually was and then her finding the man of her dreams that the Lord had promised her in the end.
As the title warns, spends considerable time following the ruin of one of the characters, which is not really typical of GLH. Does not spend a lot of time on the guy the heroine ends up with, which IS typical of GLH. Ditto the time spent on little old lady characters.It's one of the more preachy GLH novels, but I enjoyed it.
I forgot how good Grace Livingston Hill's books can be. The faith element is unashamedly strong, and the characters are very relatable - even nearly a century after being written.
