https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8501532-on-elegance-while-sleeping
A glorious little book, told in elegant poetic chapters, tinier than a thimbleful of sand, but wittier than four Javier Maríases and smarter than one Fernando Pessoa. Written in an undated diary format, the narrator recounts his experiences as a man of leisure, from his manicured beginnings, his syphilitic middles, to his murderous ends. Wondrous little intro, too, and the translation is smooth, perfect: captures the voice nicely. (P.S. The author was a self-appointed Viscount. Megacool).
A sweet little tale of a murder-to-be via his diary.
But no, this is not a serial killer's rant and ravings, it is a highly beautifully written dreamy (in other words Surreal) observations on sexuality, family, and one's place in the 'outer' world.
Which in other words can be "dandy" world.
Isabel was dying.Having decided a few days later to inquire about her health, I installed myself again along the bend in the road, where I soon heard a song coming down the way.
The women from the factory of supersensitive telephone receivers had replaced their dead friend with a song."A wonderful little book.
Yeah. Um. I don't see the point in this. Plotless it may be; Book of Disquiet it ain't. It's well written, I give it that much, but I put it down three quarters of the way through many months ago and, having dipped into it briefly this morning, I feel not the slightest desire to pick it up again. Could be I'll reconsider. True, some images linger. But so does a sense of lethargic frustration. Oh, and the cover is terrible. Thank heaven it's well-bound! But it may be its spine will never get much of a workout.
This short novel, On Elegance While Sleeping, was written, in the form of a diary in the 1920s, by Argentinian novelist "Viscount" Lascano Tegui, who counted among his friends Pablo Picasso and a fellow early surrealist writer, Apollinaire. Many passages of the novel have taken my breath away because of their beauty, originality, and jarring juxtapositions. This little known and brilliant piece of literature is sometimes dark, often haunting, and more than occasionally shocking and funny. Full of mesmerizing, decadent, voluptuous and delicate images, some passages (especially as the book progresses) are not for the faint of heart.
Perfection from start to finish.
They'll only die once they finally tire of listening to the ringing of the village bells.Emilio Lascano Tegui of Argentina, self-proclaimed Viscount, was a man that lived the life of an adventurer.
He befriended Picasso and Apollinaire, fancied himself a Viscount(a title in British nobility) and enjoyed life as the dilettante that he was.What is magical about his fictional diary of a man's slow fall into madness is that he renders it relatable.
No. I've never had the tinplate and cardboard gendarmes children play with in the city.
Justice is a painted gendarme whose colors rub off in our hands.
A gendarme that's been painted, carved, encrusted in the foods we ingest.
Here, there is an inferior, play version of humanity that, although carefully made and given, is an antidote to individuality.The oddities and idiosyncrasies described in the writing bully and romance the narrator's physical memory as he dramatizes his relationship to a kind of spiritual insomnia.
An example of the enjoyable eccentricity of writing in this book can be found in the author's observation that there are people who worship the book as a fetish object, "like the eighteenth-century woman who liked lace so much she cut it up and ate it in a tortilla."Considering that this book was written in 1925 it is daring and avant-garde.
I don't feel like I understood the book, but from what I know of the author, and from what I have read in the book itself, I would not be surprised if this is the last thing the author wanted.
Viscount Lascano Tegui writes:Nobody has ever honestly shown us, for instance, a man precisely as he was during his transition from the countryside to the city. Authors have merely “discovered” psychology and thus complicated our life even further. A psychologist doesn’t understand people: he’s a businessman who sells carnival costumes. There are no costumes, however, for the soul. No, there’s nothing more there than its poor twisted simplicity, turned inside out by a civilization still terrified by tigers – and hiding from them in cities.
Simply this is a book I picked up at Mcnally Jackson in Soho and was like meh, sounds good.I started reading it and found one of the greatest little gems ever which checked all sorts of neurotic, mysterious, david lynch-ian marks in my mind. One of the best little slices of an artists writing.
Nunca el amor a las ubres ovinas dio tanto juego. Una colección de fetichismos.
starts: the first time i entrusted my hands to a manicurist was the evening i was headed to the moulin rouge.an ok read...more than a few seemed not to like it, not story-enough for them i take it, too confusing, to not-enough of a good thing this that the other whatever.
an interesting read, some of the ideas here, how words are used, words and ideas, some crazy things here and there...thinkin the hand of emmogene correct spelling missing.what's the point of stars?
then there's the deal with my read of the intro, the quandary that i have in that i don't know that i agree there is whatever the wording was...a progression down...or whatever.
A pariah writes: Okay well obviously nobody can be bothered to contact me any more and I feel like some kind of social outcast or leper.
So the pariah shall review some books instead.
Plenty of 4 and 5 star ratings but also some disappointed readers that doled out low marks.
Nevertheless 3:5 is a good average from 76 ratings.
The Count is a fascinating figure a Latin American who has written a fascinating novel set in the villages that lie on the seine near Paris.
I guess it doesn't even qualify as a novel.
I wouldn't like to categorise this kind of writing.
"Literature does far worse things than those poor whores who, out of hunger, have to turn tricks from street corner to street corner on the outskirts of town.
Literature is invited into the family home as easily as a maid -- but soon is giving one breast to the son and the other to the father, kissing all the daughters with Sappho's lips, and disheartening the mother by giving her 'The Little Flowers of St Francis' to read.
She was far worse than a whore -- she didn't even wash my private parts.
I'm nothing when I'm far from her.
I haven't read a book like this one before. I wanted to read more Argentinian literature and that's why I picked it up. I appreciated the diary format with brief flashes of the narrator's past and present life. The highlight of the book was the hunchback entry. Did anyone lawl as much as I did? Anyway, I also found the main character's interactions with women to be very interesting. It would be an ideal piece for analysis. I would recommend this one.
Surrealism, yecch. I had the same reaction to reading this as I did to seeing L'Age d'Or a couple years ago: yawn. Epater le bourgeoisie was probably interesting up until 1958 or so, but in 2010? Why bother translating this at all now? Maybe interesting as a historical document, but I'm not even quite sure about that. Unless you still think Dali is way cool, don't bother.
An Argentinian Dorian Grey, sort of. The narrator says lots of wonderful things, and does terrible things, but I really like him. I really like his honesty. He gets beauty and novelty, he really gets it!!!
This is an exquisite translation of a bizarre and grotesque book. I loved the references to obscure historic moments, especially the lady from the 18th century who loved lace so much that she cut up pieces of it and ate it in tortillas.
This is a perfectly strange and brilliant book. It reminds me of Huysman's Against Nature with Baudelaire's prose poems thrown in. Oddly, I was reminded of a really disparate work also: Barry Gifford's "Landscape with Traveller."
http://www.brooklynrail.org/2011/05/b...
Se va desinflando paulatinamente hacia el final; con todo, ¡qué libro tan curioso y extraño! Hijo sin duda de Maldoror y Des Esseintes.El título, espléndido.
Do not waste your time on this "original" and "unique" book.
Around the World in 52 book: Argentina
Disjointed and disappointing. The narrative was nonexistent and while the prose had occasional moments of beauty, the first page was as good as it got.
This guy has a MAJOR hand fetish.
it's an interesting book, i just didn't enjoy it all that much.
A bunch of inane ramblings
Entretenido.
I loved this book. Grotesque. Beautiful. Bawdy. Dark. Wonderful. I want to read it again.
