https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/112933.Closing_the_Ring
It all goes to show: believe hard enough in your dream, and you can make it come true.
Here, Adolf Hitler had the insane idea that the Jews, the Bolsheviks and the Americans were all involved in one big conspiracy to get him.
Given that the Bolsheviks and the Americans were sworn enemies, it did seem a little far-fetched.
All the same, by this stage of World War II, Adolf's dream was a reality.
The Americans and the Bolsheviks were indeed openly encircling him, working together to hunt him down and kill him without mercy.
He notes the Americans having to fight a two-front war with land, navy, and air, while also supplying everyone else with the weapons and machinery to win.This volume also marks Churchill's inkling of Great Britain losing her place as the world leader.
As the Allies close the ring, Churchill must endure more criticism, particularly as the Yanks gently take over overall leadership and Britain heads into bankruptcy....this class of criticism...reminds me of the simple tale about the sailor who jumped into a dock to rescue a small boy from drowning.
What a great book! The book ends with the onset of D-Day. As always Churchill has a unique and determined viewpoint. I would definitely recommend this book to anyone interested in history or WWII.
Before the end of that year new tonnage at last surpassed losses at sea from all causes, and the second quarter saw, for the first time U-boat losses exceed their rate of replacement.Page 139 House of Commons Speech, September 1943When I hear people talking in an airy way of throwing modern armies ashore here and there as if they were bales of goods to be dumped on a beach and forgotten I really marvel at the lack of knowledge which still prevails of the conditions of modern war.The preparations for D-Day are discussed in detail and as the above quotes indicate, 1944 was the earliest this could have been launched.
Much of the story has to do with the centrality of "Overlord" - the code name for what came to be the invasion at Normandy, D-Day. Overlaying this was Churchill's anxiety about ensuring Britain's name would go down in history as having played a major role in actual combat.
On the other hand, Stalin took on new stature as the effective counter to Hitler and his previously undefeated war machine.
But Stalin was also reminding Churchill and FDR that it was his efforts that had stymied Hitler and he wanted a firm, no wiggle-room date, for Overlord.Italy was a special war theater.
FDR, Churchill and Stalin had agreed that the top priority was the defeat of Hitler.
I certainly set it aside for a while to read some other stuff.
I continue to marvel at Churchill's use of vocabulary and the British ability to say difficult things in a graceful way.
Churchill is always convinced that he is right which was both a strength and a weakness (i.e. even in battles won he contends that it could have been done quicker or with less damage and casualties if it had been done his way).Many of my highlights are examples of this or significant things that I have wondered about.
When we see his virtually unedited copy sent from the field from India, the Sudan and South Africa at the end of the last century, we can feel sure that by the 1950s, he was a competent composer of text indeed."Closing the Ring" is the story of the climax of the Second World War. Although he refused to admit it, Hitler probably knew deep down what everybody else could see very clearly after Stalingrad.
Churchill was at once rewarded by the knowledge that he had been right in thinking America invincible, and at the same time he was sadly aware that an era was passing and the British Empire was fading away in front of his eyes.This is a long sustained narrative, written by a man in full command of his enormous personal resources.
The peaceful resolutions of these difficulties showed a lot of patience on the Allied commanders' part, I thought.One reason I like reading histories is the applicability to our own times.
That is our position." We must also be careful that a pretext is not made of war needs to introduce far-reaching social or political changes by a side-wind.
We have been asked to be on a war footing for a long while, but except for a relatively small number, those sacrifices have been changes in the way we regard our freedoms.
The war has been an excuse, not the cause, for a number of non-necessary controversial changes.
A sampling of some of the "United Nations" joining with the Allies is contained in the description of the struggle to wrest control of Monte Cassino in Italy, in which American, British, Moroccan, Indian and New Zealand army divisions were fighting toward common objectives, with the Monte finally being breached by Polish forces.The last item on the above list highlights the predicament faced by the Allied leaders throughout the war concerning friendly, provisional governments formed by exiles from German-occupied Europe.
The Anzio operation, which instead of taking Rome has turned into months of inactivity and a delay of Overlord, is in particular attributed to the failure of Americans to follow the soft British commander (who "urged" instead of "ordered" the Americans to advance).+ The insistence of Churchill to allow (push?) Turkey to join the Allies in the war seems a much longer-term game: Churchill seems to want to prevent the Russians (or any other Power but Britain) from claiming the Dardenelles (Canakkale).
Winston Churchill's "Closing the Ring" is a masterpiece of the actual words by the actual man who lead the actual effort against Germany in World War II.
If the size of the book is daunting, know that each chapter has its own table of contents so each topic can receive the focus the reader wishes to give it.Churchill wrote six volumes to recount World War II.
"Closing the Ring" opens the mind to history, war, and character.
Thank you, Mr. Winston Churchill, for skillfully sharing, and shaping, these moments of history for us.
The Drive to Victory for the Allies focusing on Driving Italy out of the war and the preparation for D-Day. Churchill noticed the warning signs of Joseph Stalin and the Soviet Union well before F.D.R. or anyone else for that matter. D-Day was necessary not to win the war against Germany but to protect the west from an onslaught of Communism and Soviet hegemony.
I did not like this volume 5 as much as the previous 4. Too much trivial stuff included about Churchill's personal life, rather than the war.Still pretty good history, however, and well worth reading.
Again, wow!
Loved this volume, too. If Hitler can manage to deal with Stalin, what can I not do? Still learning so much. Can’t wait to finish this series.
Detailed account of 1943 to just before D-Day in 1944. Lots of political discussion as well as detail as the Allies make progress against the Axis.
'Closing the Ring' continues Churchill's personal account of World War II.
The first book describes the invasion of Sicily and Southern Italy, the fall of Mussolini, the risk of an Italian civil war, and how the Italian invasion came to a standstill.
Churchill's account remains easy to read and personal.
Also his account of his sickness, his friendship with Roosevelt, and his problems with Stalin are insightful.
By reading Churchill you really feel the slow and tiresome progress of the Second World War. He ends the book with a feeling of hope for mankind, even though by 1952 he knew very well it was to be shattered all too soon.
Italy is knocked out of the war, but brings up the uncomfortable question of who should rule it while fighting continues.
The great topics discussed are the Quebec Conference, the Cairo Conference, and the Tehran Conference, where the Allies hammer out the overall strategy.
All agree to attack, and all agree to Overlord and the invasion of France, but by the latter two conferences Britain and the US are already ashore in Italy.
Should resources, in particular very scarce landing craft, be used to expand those operations?
Should there be a supporting operation in Southern France?
Friction is developing between the democratic allies.
“Closing The Ring” is the fifth volume in Winston Churchill’s magnificent history of World War II.
The contentious debates between the priorities to take advantage of opportunities in the Mediterranean versus preparations for Overlord make for interesting reading and reflection.It is in this volume that we follow the Anglo-American armies across Sicily and into Italy.
Opportunities in the Aegean created by the Italian surrender and the reasons that they were not followed up on are examined in detail.I value first person memoirs and remain a fan of Churchill’s World War II series.
By the time British, American, Canadian, and French troops made it ashore in northern France the demise of Germany seemed assured and yet millions more died before final victory was achieved.
Some have argued that the war was fought to the bitter end because the Allies had stipulated nothing short of "unconditional" surrender, which meant that in the event of defeat German leaders would be prosecuted for war crimes and the German nation would again be at the mercy of the powers that had stripped her bare after World War I.
Amazingly, for this reason, the Allies had decided not to publicize a requirement for "unconditional" surrender but FDR slipped up in a news conference and uttered the word.

The Gathering Storm: The Second World War, Volume 1 (Winston Churchill World War II Collection)2.
Their Finest Hour: The Second World War, Volume 2 (Winston Churchill World War II Collection)3.
The Grand Alliance: The Second World War, Volume 3 (Winston Churchill World War II Collection)4.
The Hinge of Fate: The Second World War, Volume 4 (Winston Churchill World War II Collection)5.
Closing the Ring: The Second World War, Volume 5 (Winston Churchill World War II Collection)6.
Triumph and Tragedy: The Second World War, Volume 6 (Winston Churchill World War II Collection)
This account stands alone in a genre not commonly attempted: the voluntary revelation of one's choices and actions during a moment of tremendous testing, a moment when those choices and actions could easily be second-guessed.
But what gives these books there power is the tremendous amount of primary material in them -- letters and papers written during the actual events -- with only short introductory and connecting accounts to give the context.
This is not merely Churchill self-interpreting and self-congratulating; it truly allows for responsibility and accountability.
What is astonishing is, despite the monumental stakes, Churchill rarely evidences any doubt or misgivings.
Spanning a relatively short period of the Second World War (July 1943 - June 1944), it obviously also covers all the preparations for 'Overlord' (but not the actual invasion itself).Churchill presents the reader (once again) with a global view of the war and how it was 'managed' by the Great Powers (GB, US, USSR) during this period.
The initially rather uneasy alliance with Russia improves somewhat and of course the war is turning around.Nazi Germany losing everything that was gained in the USSR, Italy surrendering and fighting with the Allies (leaving the Axis broken), Japan stalled and driven back.Full with details and information it is a gripping read, as were the previous volumes.
Now I am getting onto the last of these six books.
This is the fifth volume of the six volume Churchill WWII Memoirs.
This book takes you from the summer of 1943 to D-day.
In this book we start to see how Churchill, Roosevelt and Stalin lplan the allies efforts.
You also see how Stalin's attitude annoyed Churchill and Roosevelt.
Churchill's grasp of the entire war effort really helps put the battles into context.
There's also some humor in the book as Roosevelt and Stalin play a joke on Churchill.
A very interesting insight into the personalities of WWII.
This is another outstanding piece of scholarship by my man, Winston Churchill.
However, he does whine an inordinate amount about: opening up a front in the Balkans, delaying D-Day to better support the Italian front, attacking southern France, and getting Turkey into the war.
That's not to say he isn't right.
I'm not enough of an expert to know and I'm certainly not as experienced in military and political affairs as the author.
Perhaps his doggedness is part of what made him great.
These issues notwithstanding, another outstanding entry into the great man's magnum opus, The Second World War.
Churchill's fifth volume on the Second World War covers the year from mid-1943 to mid-1944 and from the invasion of Italy up through just before D-Day. The thing that makes this a bit of a lesser book for me than the rest (and mind you, taken as a whole, this is a 5-star series), there was just a lot of reading about the diplomatic side and all the negotiations between the UK, US, and USSR that seemed quite tedious. Now it's on to the climax...
This volume (#5 in the series) went from Italy's final throes as an Axis power to the night before D-Day. Honestly, it kind of dragged along. I think Winston really wanted to finish it on June 5th but there just wasn't enough going on during that time span to make the book good. I'm really looking forward to the final volume, though.
Building up to the finale. Not as much action as some of the other volumes, but the dynamics between the big three's leadership are fascinating. Also learned quite a lot about Anglo-Greek relations during the war. I'm curious to see how he packs in D-Day all the way to the end of the war in one final volume...
Brilliant. The highlight of this book has to be the build up to the evening before the 6th June 1944 D Day launches.Yet again, Winston brings you right into the toils, trials and rejoicing of this period of history (June 1943-June 1944).Having read this 5th Volume, this now leaves just the final Volume 6 to read to complete his epic memoirs.
