https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/334123.The_Amulet_of_Samarkand
This book had some ground to make up to begin with because after checking its copyright date, all I could think was, "It's a book...about a magic apprentice...in England...written after Harry Potter." And that meant that I was skeptical, although not to the degree that I thought the main character would be named Barry Cotter or something.Well, there is one big way in which it's like Harry Potter......I stayed up all night reading it.This is a FANTASTIC book, one that suggests that Harry Potter books don't have to be just a phenomenon, but could be a genre as well, as long as there are people out there who have the capacity, as Jonathan Stroud does, to create new worlds.
(B) 72% | More than SatisfactoryNotes: An interesting premise and humorous to boot, but the story’s flat, characters aren’t very deep and the ending’s weak.
It's humor, mostly derived from Bartimaeus the wisecracking cynical djinni summoned to do a boy's will, reminded me of P.G. Wodehouse, while its snide self-satisfaction was reminiscent of Harry Harrison's work, especially his character "Slippery Jim" of Stainless Steel Rat. It's good, self-referrential stuff like that that doesn't disturb the suspension of disbelief, at least not for me.
The action follows the aforementioned snide demon-like djinni and a petulant boy…yeah, not a lot to choose from there in the main character line.
Jonathan Stroud somehow manages to write with so much distance between the narrator(s) and the readers — even when he’s telling the story in first person through Bartimaeus.
It would have been easier to absorb, would have saved me from moving my eyes, and would have kept the book flowing smoothly.To cap off the distant, flat narrative, and the distracting footnotes, Nathaniel and Bartimaeus are so remarkably unsympathetic, I felt none of the usual drive to finish a book as soon as possible because I really didn’t care much about what was going to happen to them.
You will absolutely devour this book.
Told from the very different viewpoints of Bartimaeus ( a smart-aleck djinn who has lived thousands of years and has nothing to show for it but an I rock you don't attitude) and Nathaniel (12 year old jerkwad apprentice whose lifelong dream is to be a huge im portant government official and have millions of obedient djinn slaves at his fingertips.
Bartimaeus isn't making it easy for him) this book is a full of humor and helps us to know the true meaning of friendship a little better.
But the similarities really end there.In Stroud's world, magicians have no power of their own - their power lies in the knowledge of how to summon (and enslave) spirits, like the djinni Bartimaeus, to do their will.
They are bred for government, are not allowed to themselves breed, and thus take on apprentices instead to further the magical profession.One of the book's protagonists, Nathaniel, is one such apprentice, to the ineffectual Mr. Underwood.
And the book's 2nd protagonist is Nathaniel's djinni of choice.
the book's namesake, the delightfully sarcastic, witty, and mischievous Bartimaeus.
That being said, I must admit that it was more frustrating than enjoyable for me.The main problem was that I disliked both of the main characters: one is a wily demon (Bartimaeus), and the other is a 12-year-old kid who is way too smart for his own good (Nathaniel).
Don't get me wrong - I love "The Screwtape Letters," but with nothing enlightening to learn from the demon in question, and having to read a much longer book full of it, the negativism got old.
As for Nathaniel...
Maybe I'm feeling slightly defensive, but I honestly believe some of the best books written today are in the childrens/young adult section.
Well, the Bartimaeus trilogy by Jonathan Stroud is a book that fits completely into the great books written for children.
This is one of my favorite childrens book of all time, primarily because of the great characterization of its protagonist, Bartimaeus.
I would highly suggest reading the remaining two books in the series, as they just get better as they go along, and add depth to the first book.
The whole series is inventive and entertaining, and a very good read.
The real secret of magic is that humans only have magic by knowing how to capture and bind what they call “demons” (magical creatures like jinni, in reality) into magical slavery, and use those demons to perform magic.The story actually begins as young Nathaniel, who has been treated poorly by not only his master, but other magicians as well.
It’s a refreshing point of view to take in a book like this, and has the effect of making us think more critically than we already were about what’s going on with Nathaniel and the world he’s a part of.I’m really glad I finally read this book.
This was a reread for me and a whole load of fun it is too! A young and talented magician gets himself in a whole bunch of trouble when he summons a 14th level demon to help in with a task. Bartimaeus, the demon called, is a hilarious character and the story is a rollicking read. Recommended for all ages!
This book is very cleverly written, with two alternating strands of narration.
One in the third person, tells the story mainly from the point of view of Nathaniel.
The other strand gives us a different perspective on the characters and events but it is in the first person, from the point of view of the devious, superior and sarcastic otherworldly being Bartimaeus.
While it bears some resemblance to other narratives of the underdog sorceror's apprentice (Harry Potter leaps to mind), this is different.
The reader gets fascinating glimpses of Bartimaeus's past and somewhat troubling hints about Nathaniel's future.
Zvuči poznato :) Ali glavna razlika je u samoj magiji u odnosu na druge slične poriče pošto ovde nema bacanja čini u klasičnom smislu već se prizivaju magična bića koja bacaju čini za vas.
Sasvim fino smišljen sistem.Sama priča je u suštini jednostavna ali je prošarana sa puno humora (naročito sarkastičnog) što čini sve zabavnijim tako da knjiga baš brzo proleti.I neka vas ne brine ako se čini da je za mlađe naraštaje pošto i mi straiji možemo mirno da uživamo u ovome.Preporuka a ja se uskoro vraćam ovom svetu :)
راستش بارتیمیوس اونقد برام جذاب نبود. خود بارتیمیوس چرا، زبان طنزش و پاورقیهاش خیلی عالی بود. نویسنده مشخصاً خلاقه، از فکری که برای دنیای جادوگریش داشته تا همین طنز بارتیمیوس و شیوۀ راوی دردسرسازش. دو نوع روایت رو پابهپای هم پیش ببری کار راحتی نیست. از ارباب ناتانیل بدم میاومد. خیلی رومخ بود. کلاً عجیبه که دیگه مثل سابق از فانتزی اونقدرا لذت نمیبرم. از علمیتخیلیها چرا، یا ترسناکها یا مثلاً فانتزی حماسی. اما میدونم اگه راهنمایی یا دبیرستانی بودم اینو میخوندم، خیلی بیشتر لذت میبردم. برام ملالآور ب
راستش بارتیمیوس اون‌قد برام جذاب نبود.
خود بارتیمیوس چرا، زبان طنزش و پاورقی‌هاش خیلی عالی بود.
نویسنده مشخصاً خلاقه، از فکری که برای دنیای جادوگریش داشته تا همین طنز بارتیمیوس و شیوۀ راوی دردسرسازش.
دو نوع روایت رو پابه‌پای هم پیش ببری کار راحتی نیست.
خیلی رومخ بود.
کلاً عجیبه که دیگه مثل سابق از فانتزی اون‌قدرا لذت نمی‌برم.
از علمی‌تخیلی‌ها چرا، یا ترسناک‌ها یا مثلاً فانتزی حماسی.
اما می‌دونم اگه راهنمایی یا دبیرستانی بودم اینو می‌خوندم، خیلی بیشتر لذت می‌بردم.
برام ملال‌آور بود.
:)) بارتیمیوس خیلی مجموعه پرطرفداریه، اما خیلی راغب نشدم بقیه‌شو بخونم.
هرچند توی پایان‌بندی جلد اول، موفق بود.
4.5 to 5.0 stars. A very fun read, with an intelligent, engaging magic system and a wonderful title character ... namely the Djinn Bartimaeus. This is one of my favorite YA fantasy series.
One is a third person perspective which focuses on young Nathaniel, a magician apprentice.
In this world, magicians don’t have power of their own, they bound demons (spirits) do work their magic for them.
If you want to see what happens next, you will have to read it yourself.I must say that the fact this novel is considered a children's book surprised me because it is quite dark and gloomy in its atmosphere.
Despite this general feeling that The Amulet doesn’t take itself too seriously, there are a lot of serious topics in this one- if you want to read it that way.
که وقتی انشالله دو جلد بعدی رو هم دوباره خوندم تو ریویو جلد سوم میگم :دیولی شاید الان یه اشاره هایی بکنم :-"خب راستش بعد از اینکه این کتاب رو دوباره خوندم به نظرم باید چیزی بین 4 و نیم و 5 میدادم به کتاب و نه 5 کامل.
نمیدونم ولی خیلی ها از پاورقی خوششون نمیاد و اینو نقطه ضعف داستان میدونن :/این شبیه نقد کتاب نیست :-؟ اما اگه بخوام چیزی بگم اینه که کلا داستان رو دوست داشتم، و ترجمه هم که بسی عالی بود.
سه؟چهار؟ نمیدونم چند ستاره بدم خوبه!!!!به نظرم نویسنده خیلی خلاقه که تونسته این همه شخصیت عجیب و غریب خلق کنه.پاورقی ها یکم برای من خسته کننده بودن، مخصوصا اونایی که خیلی طولانی بودن :)) اما مثل اینکه نصف جذابیت کتاب برای طرفداراش به همین پاورقی هاس.
The story begins with a young but gifted apprentice magician summoning a djinni (genie), Bartimaeus.
Eventually you learn why Nathaniel wanted the Amulet stolen.
By beginning with the theft, the story avoids a slow beginning.
The story shifts point of view between Bart.
Bartimaeus is just hilarious, partly because of the British humor that is prevalent throughout the book.
He has a big ego, he gets in trouble with his smart-Alec remarks, and he has great contempt for humans.
The book on tape is narrated by Simon Jones (The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy mini-series narrator), who does a great job.
This is a hilarious, fast-paced book about a world where many state governments are ruled by magicians.
Magicians themselves have limited powers; most of their strength stems from their ability to summon powerful demons who are obligated to do their bidding.At the age of six, Nathaniel is apprenticed to a mediocre, hypocritical, incompetent self-consumed magician, Arthur Underwood.
Behind his master's back, Nathaniel summons a rather powerful djinni named Bartimaeus, in order to seek revenge on a powerful magician.
When Jones reads Underwood's proclamations, the character's pomposity and determination to ignore his apprentice come ringing true.
Don't read this book--listen to it!
What an awesome book to listen to on a very long car trip!
The narrator was incredible.
For those looking for a book in a similar vein to the Harry Potter series, this story of a young apprentice magician is a must read.
I would recommend the audio version to children ages 9+.
The parents in the car enjoyed the story, too.This audio book was downloaded from audiobooksync.com as part of their Summer 2012 free audio book promotion.
See what other audio books made our Road Trip playlist and what we thought of them on Badass Book Reviews.
Very creative, different and refreshing!I believe it was written for children, but it was a fun ride.
I love this book! A djinn with an attitude (who had me constantly chuckling to myself), and a boy bent on revenge. Great characters, fast-paced action, fully-realized world with a cool magic system, what more could you want?What I appreciate most, though, is that the characters face real danger. None of that false suspense -- you know, like the ones you see on movies/television like  Prison Break . Apologies for the fans, but it really irked me whenever Michael Scofield is in the tunnel and the
I love this book!
Great characters, fast-paced action, fully-realized world with a cool magic system, what more could you want?What I appreciate most, though, is that the characters face real danger.
Prison Break
. Apologies for the fans, but it really irked me whenever Michael Scofield is in the tunnel and the guard is approaching his cell to check on the prisoners and it seems like Michael is gonna get caught, but then he miraculously materialized under his blanket!
In this book, when you do something dangerous, you're gonna face the consequences.
4.5 ninja-bunnehs-a-flyin'
Απολαυστικότατο ΥΑ με ένα τζίνι που εκτελεί τις επιθυμίες του εκάστοτε αφέντη του σχολιάζοντάς τες!!!Κλασικό παραμύθι, με συμπεθέστατους χαρακτήρες και μια πολύ ευχάριστη περιπέτεια. Το χιούμορ του όμως είναι αυτό που το κάνει να ξεχωρίζει. Πάρτε το δώρο σε αδερφάκια - ξαδερφάκια - ανηψάκια και διαβάστε το όταν αυτά κοιμούνται!!!!
Διασκεδαστικό,αστείο,με πολύ δράση.Ο Βαρτιμαίος με τις ατάκες του και την κοφτερή του γλώσσα με έκανε να γελάσω.
I ended up enjoying this book more than I thought I would.When I first started reading, the pace was a bit...well, I guess scattered is the best way to put it.
The first is first person with Bartimaeus.
He is a magician's apprentice who summons Bartimaeus for a small case of revenge.The story bounces between these two as the adventure moves along and a little game of revenge gets to be so much more than either thought it could.
Bartimaeus starts off warning the boy early on that he was over his head...what an understatement.
I was given this book by my husband because I was feeling a bit overwelmed by a number of large fantasy reads I had on my TBR file.
I had just read a number of "smaller" works and really enjoyed them.I was instantly captivated by this book.
I loved the humor of Bartimaeus and immediately got an impression of the character and I loved is Bravado.I found the footnotes entertaining - I know some people have been crtical of them but I found them very entertaining and while distracting I was always glad they were there.
اوه ... عجب کتابی ! هیچ کتابی تا حالا ندیدم که شبیه به این باشه . اطلاعاتی داشت که فقط از یه همچین نویسنده دانا و توانایی بر میومد . بعضی دیالوگاش واقعا به یاد موندنی بود و حالا حالاها جا داره تا روشون فکر کنم و مثال هایشون رو تو زندگی واقعی ببینم . نمیدونم چی دیگه بگم فقط میتونم بگم که مطمئنم عاشق این سه جلد میشم ...
Ma purtroppo una fine c’è, come per ogni libro, solo che, (e qui vorrei conoscere Stroud di persona e ringraziarlo), per fortuna, la fine di questo libro apre un varco verso gli altri due libri della storia, che leggerò più in là nel tempo per non dover dire troppo presto addio a questa coppia sgangherata, ma sempre vincente di Nathaniel e Bartimeus.La forza di questo libro, oltre che nella trama che non starò qui a raccontare, sta nella capacità dell’autore di presentare così bene ed approfonditamente i due protagonisti, il maghetto strappato alla famiglia d’origine per entrare nelle grinfie dell’inetto maestro che dovrebbe condurlo alla gloria da mago, ma che in realtà non ci sa proprio fare, e il demone dal maghetto convocato.
Due to the lack of steam-engines and other steam-based technologies, I reckon the setting was present day London.The magicians in this book didn't have magical power.
He summoned the djinn Bartimaeus and ordered him to steal the Amulet of Samarkand from Lovelace and planted it in Underwood's study.When he was five, Nathaniel's parents gave him away to the government because he seemed to have magicking chops.
The big climax was BIG but it was all pow pow pow with no real action.My favorite character was of course the djinn Bartimaeus, who kept me entertained with his rapier wit and sarcastic remarks.
