https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/42683.Ernest_Hemingway_on_Writing
A glimpse into the psyche and mental preparation of a writer, and not any writer, but Hemingway himself. Beautiful segments and quotations that make you think about writing, the process, why writers read, etc
Everyone who writes would do well to read this short volume and understand the methods by which Hemingway achieves power, clarity and the trademark rough lyrical beauty of his work.
It's intriguing to read his evolution as a writer in his letters like this one in 1927 to Maxwell Perkins: "My own experience with the literary life has not as yet included receiving royalties – but I hope by keeping down advances to some day have this take place.” He is always pithy and scant of syntax and believed in ruthless editing sometimes by tossing out tens of thousands of words at a time.
I need to stop having impure thoughts about Hemingway.
After reading "A Sun Also Rises," "A Moveable Feast," "The Paris Wife," and "For Whom the Bell Tolls," I have become so enthralled with Ernest Hemingway's writing that I had to get this book.
You can't do this without putting in the bad and the ugly as well as what is beautiful.
Because if it is all beautiful you can't believe in it.
It is only by showing both sides-3 dimensions and if possible 4 that you can write the way I want to.
(1925, Hemingway) (Try to explain that to hardliners in Iran - seems the only dimension they usually want to show is their own.)
You really get a sense of his inner musings as well as his character.
There are tidbits of fascinating information in here regarding his novels and other work.
What I liked most about this was that you get a sense of the humanness of Hemingway.
You see the flaws in his writing (literally - in many of his letters there are grammatical and spelling errors) which can provide a sort of comfort to anyone (myself included) who dreams of writing novels.
Regardless, I think it's well worth the read for anyone who cherishes the art of writing.
I have read quite a few books about the art of writing, and what I've observed overtime is that, really, it's best to get advice from those that have done it their whole lives, instead of college professors and other pseudo-intellectuals.
Hemingway, or Papa, as some call him, has a lot of opinions and thoughts on writing in here, but not a whole lot of advice.
Which is fine, cause after a while you begin to agree with him: that talking about writing ruins the magic of it, ruins the drive.
tolstoy gibi yazarak kitabı daha büyük, daha bilgece falan filan hale getirebilirim. ama hemen sonra tolstoy'u neden atlaya atlaya okuduğumu hatırlıyorum...tanrı gibi yazmaktan hoşlanmıyorum. eleştirmenler bunu beceremediğimi varsayıyorlar, halbuki tek sebep istememem  heyt be, ulan be, hemingway be!önce çanlar benim için çalsın istedim aslında, sonra daha kolay bir başlangıç yapmak için bu kitaba yöneldim.o kadar keyif aldığım bir deneyimdi ki, anlatıyorum hemen, bir saniye.ilkokulda bilge ço
tolstoy gibi yazarak kitabı daha büyük, daha bilgece falan filan hale getirebilirim.
heyt be, ulan be, hemingway be!önce çanlar benim için çalsın istedim aslında, sonra daha kolay bir başlangıç yapmak için bu kitaba yöneldim.o kadar keyif aldığım bir deneyimdi ki, anlatıyorum hemen, bir saniye.ilkokulda bilge çocuk isimli bir dergi çıkardım ben, üç sayı sürdü serüvenim ama olsun, azımsanmayacak kadar okurum -beş falan- vardı ve okul panosunda sergilenmişti dergimin kapağı, hahaha.biraz daha kurgu öyküler üzerine yazmaya başlayınca etrafımın gazıyla bir ara -altıncı sınıf- kitap yazacağımı söyledim hatta.sonra, türkiye'ye geldiğimiz aynı dönemde dandik bir kitapçıya gittim, taklit etmek için kitap baktım kendime, 
helpful.
Hemingway expressly stated that he did not want anyone to publish his letters, yet here we have a collection of Hemingways' thoughts on writing as collected in his novels and correspondences.
Anyone reading what another writer thinks about writing should take into consideration that that's what worked for HIM/HER, and won't necessarily work for everyone.
I'm just afraid people would read this book and think, "Okay I'll try that, since Hemingway said it and, well, look at him now." No. Do your own thing and take other ideas with a measure of salt, using them if they make sense and can impact your writing in a positive way.
Que hay que escribir traspasando toda la emoción posible.
Pero si alguien te lee y siente que eso le pasó, entonces triunfaste.
Que hay que escribir de la forma más honesta posible.
Que no porque algo me haya pasado a mí significa que vale la pena escribir sobre eso.
Que hay que leer e intentar superar a cada gran escritor y escritora que haya existido.
Que hay que escribir aunque no se reciba plata por ello inmediatamente, porque toda buena obra dará plata en algún momento.
Que escribir cuando no hay nada que decir es la mayor traición a una misma.
Makes a hell of a dull life too.
Do you remember how old Ford was always writing how Conrad suffered when he wrote?
Do you suffer when you write?
Suffer like a bastard when I don't write, or just before, and feel empty and fucked afterwards.
But never as good while writing.In another letter, this time to Charles Scribner in 1940 he wrote:Charlie there is no future in anything.
That makes it from a disease into a vice.
Then I want to do it better than anybody has ever done it which makes in into an obsession.
Some of my favorite quotes taken from Ernest Hemingway on Writing, edited by Larry W. Phillips. I hope you enjoy them as much as I do.- - -QUOTES by HEMINGWAY In truly good writing no matter how many times you read it you do not know how it is done. That is because there is a mystery in all great writing and that mystery does not dis-sect out. It continues and it is always valid. Each time you re-read you see or learn something new. To Harvey Breit, 1952(page 5)All my life I've looked at words a
I hope you enjoy them as much as I do.-	-	-QUOTES by HEMINGWAY In truly good writing no matter how many times you read it you do not know how it is done.
To Harvey Breit, 1952(page 5)All my life I've looked at words as though I were seeing them for the first time...To Mary Welsh, 1945(page 7)...writing is something that you can never do as well as it can be done.
The country you know, also the weather.
But then I remember that was what I always skipped in Tolstoi… I don’t like to write like God. It is only because you never do it, though, that the critics think you can’t do it.”către Maxwell Perkins, 1940
I love this little book. You really see the man here--astonishing warts and all--but I love his pugilistic take on writing fiction. Laughs galore, both with and at, and lots of useful insights in how to BE a writer and keep ego up.
Umarım kulağa çok ukala gelmez ama ben dünya şampiyonu olmak dışında başka hırsı olmayan bir adamım. Mesela Dr. Tolstoy'la katiyen 20 rauntluk bir maça çıkmam çünkü ağzımı burnumu dağıtır. Doktorun dayanıklılığı beni halletmeye yeter de artar bile. Ama altı rauntluğa çıkarım ve bana vurmasına izin vermezsem pestilini çıkarır, belki nakavt bile edebilirim. Ona vurmak kolay olmasına kolay da yumrukları öyle feci ki. Altmış yaşıma gelirsem yenebilirim onu (BELKİ).Bilgin olsun artık ne kadar iyi old
Umarım kulağa çok ukala gelmez ama ben dünya şampiyonu ol­mak dışında başka hırsı olmayan bir adamım.
(Kullandığım dili mazur gör.) Önce Bay Turgenyev'i denedim ve çok zorlanmadım.
Bay Maupassant'ı denedim ("de"yi bahşetmeyeceğim ona) ve en iyi öykülerimin dördü yetti yenmeye.
Şu diğer ölmüş adam.Beni kaptığı anda Bay Henry James'in gözüne parmağımı sokar, olmayan taşaklarına bir defa vurup hakeme itiraz ederdim.Bay Shakespeare (Şampiyon) veya Bay Anonim gibi kimse­nin yenmeyi hayal dahi edemeyeceği bazı isimler var.
Acısı çıkar.Biliyorum böbürleniyormuşum gibi geliyor ama ne yapayım, şampiyon olmak istiyorsan kendine güvenin olacak ve tanrı biliyor ki hayatımda başka bir şey istemedim.
The problem here does not really have anything to do with Ernest Hemingway, but more of a referendum on what you expect to get out of this novel. Now, having seen that ironically Hemingway doesn't like to talk about writing, I was wondering how this book ended up being created and it was to my catastrophic disappointment that it was a collection of quotes from previous published works of his. In other words, why did I spend $7 on a book that just took out pieces from Hemingway's actual books? Yeah, I don't know either.
Hemingway did not write on writing, thinking to do so siphoned off that precious, magical material from which the highest expression comes.
But through this collection of on-the-moment projectiles you come away with actually having known the man's mind on the craft.
He's a man who tries to achieve truth through simplicity, economy.
And so in these simple, economic utterings his truth comes through.
I think many readers may find more useful – actually useful!
- treasures in this bare-bones collection than many traditional volumes of How to Write.
This, I think, would have pleased the man very much.
This book contains Hemingway's reflections on the nature of the writer and on elements of the writer's life, including specific and helpful advice to writers on the craft of writing, work habits, and discipline. The Hemingway personality comes through in general wisdom, wit, humor, and insight, and in his insistence on the integrity of the writer and of the profession itself.
Quick and insightful read full of lots of quotes that I have tabbed and will try to remember when writing. His overall approach to writing was very inspiring and I will be flicking through this book whenever I need some motivation/inspiration.
If you choose to read one book on writing, this should be the one.
Loved this book so much that now I am considering reading some of his stuff.
And it makes me happy when I do it well." "Interviewer: But reading all the good writers might discourage you.Hemingway: Then you ought to be discouraged." "Hunger is good discipline and you learn from it.""Publicity, admiration, adulation, or simply being fashionable are all worthless...""Interviewer: That isn't the way they teach you to write in college.
Hemingway: I don't know about that.
I never went to college.
If any sonofabitch could write he wouldn't have to teach writing in college."
Funny how many times Hemingway mentioned in this collection how he was not so fond of the idea of his letters being published, yet here they are. Definitely some great insights into writing and into the life of one of America's greatest writers. The editing wasn't great and overall it was mostly boring little excerpts from his writing with bits of gold tucked here and there. It was boring, but luckily it was also short.
After touring Hemingway's house, I picked up this book at a local Key West bookstore. Straightforward, blunt writing about writing. His letters to F. Scott Fitzgerald border on being harsh.To be honest, I don't remember really liking Hemingway's novels, but that was almost 40 years ago. Perhaps I was too young to appreciate them. Will go back and try one again.
Some good advice for budding writers as well as providing an insight into Hemingway's personality.
There were some good points scattered throughout the book, but quite short of awesome.
Hemingway is the basis of any great writer from Tolstoy (before his time) to David Foster Wallace (after his time), and if you want to write well, listen well.
Listen to as many great writers as you can.
Being just one writer who writes in his own way among a sea of writers, Hemingway is undoubtedly a great writer.
Mice: What is the best early training for a writer?
For he does his work alone and if he is a good enough writer he must face eternity, or the lack of, each day.9.
A writer who omits things because he does not know them only makes hollow places in his writing.10.
Well worth the read for the writer-in-training and just good to keep around for inspiration during the writing period.
In an effort to correct that apparent deficiency, Larry Phillips, the editor of On Writing, collected from Hemingway’s writings—from his novels, letters, and interviews—fragments where, over the years, Hemingway did broach what might be viewed as his theories of art in general and his own ideas about writing in particular.
Although the fragments reveal little about the Hemingway style that is not spelled out in his major novels, published letters and secondary studies, it does collect in one place some of what is scattered.
A writer who omits things because he does not know them only makes hollow places in his writing.
"All good books are alike in that they are truer than if they really happened and after you are finished reading one you feel that it all happened to you and after which it all belongs to you; the good and the bad, the ecstasy, the remorse and sorrow, the people and the places and how the weather was."This is one of the quotes that grabbed me most and made me stop and think.
I actually finished the book about an hour ago, but fell head-first into his Wikipidia article and reading interviews with him and watching clips on Youtube of people talking about him.
If you're a budding writer looking for advice, then who better to learn from than a man who won a Nobel Prize in literature and wrote such heart-warming stories like A Farewell to Arms.
Though Hemingway was known to shy away from doing interviews or talking about writing (he considered it bad luck to talk about writing), he said a lot of things about the craft throughout the course of his life, in the form of letters, articles and conversations.
But even if you don't like Hemingway's style or his books, you would still gain a lot by reading this.
