https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/125974.Purity_of_Heart_is_to_Will_One_Thing
Feels like that needling reminder that you pay attention to only at certain times in your life and, subsequently, find yourself at the receiving end of condemnation.
Kierkegaard is gentle in his condemnation, saying: 'I'm not judging you, I want you to judge yourself, stupid.' Actually, in true Kierkegaardian gentleness he would call you 'impure of heart' or maybe 'double-minded.' I like his brand of individuality.
Altho, he was starting to remind me of someone else with all his talk of suffering and how to keep it forever alive.
As I said before, it's like being reminded of something (it's highly repetitive), but it also teaches.
This book is to be taken slow, and one must be willing to read and reread and continue to reread.
You are eternally responsible to render an account for your opinion and for your judgement." This book is not just a mere conversation and discussion with the reader.
It is Kierkegaard himself demanding the readers own decisive activity.
So read this book, and continue to ponder the question: Am I living with purity of heart, willing the good in truth and love?
Am I willing to do all and suffer all for the truth?

“As the sea, when it lies calm and deeply transparent, yearns for heaven, so may the pure heart, when it is calm and deeply transparent, yearn for the Good.”This may be the most en-courage-ing and deeply challenging book I have ever read.
Purity of Heart calls itself a “stage prompt” whispered to the actor — the reader — to help him or her perform good acts before the audience who is none other than God. Framed as a talk, it exhorts the listener — that solitary individual — to consider what it means to will one thing — the Good.
From the translator's intro - "This isolation of man from the flock, from the mass, from the crowd and the heightening of his consciousness as an individual which the Eternal accomplishes is a central theme of Purity of Heart Is to Will One Thing.
As individuals we are what we are before God, and no mass opinion affects this in the least.
He reminded them of the Eternal’s power to dissolve away time and to separate the crowd into individuals.
If I could give this a 3 1/2 stars, I would.Dense throughout, but if taken in small bites, Kierkegaard's labor against "double-mindedness" is very good and convicting. He is, of course, very thorough. Kierkegaard's Fear and Trembling and The Sickness Unto Death are much better works and gives a clearer sense of Kierkegaard's thought, so not a great starting point.
Read NOV 2002Best quotes, "But even if the world gathered all its strength, there is on thing it is not able to do, it can no more punish an innocent one than it can put a dead person to death" (p. 97); "the lazy man always has a disproportionate power of imagination" (p. 116); and "in the eternal order, if the circumstances are difficult the obligation to speak is doubled" (p. 213).
Examines the barriers preventing us from willing one thing and what it really means to will one thing. Sometimes the writing is somewhat dense or obscure, but often I find myself in complete intuitive agreement with Kierkegaard’s outlook.
Most influential book in my life. It will be in yours, too.
I really wanted to like this, but after rereading at least three pages without ANY memory of reading them before, I decided that I may just not be cut out for understanding Kierkegaard.
I had to take a break from the food/farming books, so I went back to my other favorite: Kierkegaard.I gave this one 2 stars and that is an average of 190 pages of one star "didn't like it" and about 20 pages of four star "really liked it." Chapter 13 is called "What Then Must I Do?
Live as an "Individual"" and is vintage Kierkegaard.
That chapter is probably a decent first plunge into Kierkegaard though.
It doesn't get to the depth of explaining the individual that Sickness Unto Death gets to, but it is much easier to understand.Back to the food/farming books!
Christian Existentialism clean and easy. If you have never read Kierkegaard and would like to, try this one on for size. It just might turn your definition of good to Good (like changing Lego blocks into a house).
If someone wanted to know something about Kierkegaard, I would recommend this to them.Nowhere in the history of philosophy or even of literature as a whole is their a writer whose insights square better experience, and have more to say. Always a humbling guy to read.
Not hyperbole: this work changed my life, setting me on course for a PhD. It also changed my life subjectively, but then I shouldn't be telling you that.
Kierkegaard knows how to hit you hard , honestly , in your deep consciousness without asking you if you're ready for this . Chapeau! Kierkegaard
Thanks, buddy.
Barriers...- Quote: "There is only one proof that the Eternal exists: faith in it."- SK personifies the abstract (Eternal) so that we can understand it in human terms.- Beautiful analogy of seeking the Good as a child seeks its mother by walking towards it from across the room.
- Quote: "For in the infinite there is no place; the individual is himself the place."- SK challenges the reader to take responsibility for himself as an individual, rather than going along with the crowd because it's easier.- He also distinguishes between the voice of our mind/ego and the voice of the Eternal.
The point of the book was an examination of self, to see if self really wills what he called, “the Good.” He didn’t go into detail defining the Good, and I think this was intentional, because it was such a reflective “talk” he expected us to know or tease that out.
Here’s his wording from page 128, “What kind of life do you live, do you will only one thing, and what is this one thing?”I have questioned whether I in fact “Will the Good”- or in other words, do I pursue Good with all my heart and all my actions and all my thoughts?
This book is meant to help you examine the motivations in your own heart for why you do the things you do.
His overall suggestion is: can you imagine acting this way and then living with the consequences of it forever in your conscience and/or before God in the eternal afterlife?At first I thought Kierkegaard was promoting some sort of legalism, by saying we have to be perfect in order to be saved.
But my professor pointed out that that's not actually what he's doing here - he's trying to get people to realize they are not perfect, because no one can always "will one thing with purity of heart".
"The crowd's way is always broad. There the poisonous ornamental flower of excuses is found in bloom. The inviting hiding places of evasion are there. There comparison wafts its cooling breath of air. This way leadeth not unto life."Kierkergaard doesn't leave any room for your excuses or evasions and he speaks directly to you, the individual. It's one of the most challenging books I've ever read and I wouldn't even say that I enjoyed it, but it's a vital work.
This set of speeches can be seen as one of Kierkegaard's simpler works, although it still is quite the read. Interesting material for the reader that gets past Kierkegaard's sentence structure and elaborate style.
This is one of my favorites. The Good.
Somewhere in all of Kierkegaard's rhetoric, he completely loses sight of charity.
Don't read reviews of Kierkegaard. Read Kierkegaard instead.
In fact, Kierkegaard suggests that the people most “busy” with doing good might be the ones least likely to slow down long enough to examine their motives for their good deeds and see the self-deception that lays hold on them: “But what does it profit a man if he goes further and further and it must be said of him: he never stops going further; when it also must be said of him: there was nothing that made him pause?
Some great examples of logic in poetry, or poetic logic, but most memorable to me are the beautiful similes, allegories and portraits. I just remember this as being a beautiful read, and becoming really impressed by his narrative skills and deep creative thought. Great inspiration to ignite that little spark inside of me that also wants to be a writer, actually writing about actual stuff that matters to people. But mostly, it was just beautiful. Some really gorgeous passages in this book. I read it at nighttime, and think I finished it in one go.
That Eternity, or God, requires of us one thing.
And to have a pure heart is to will one thing.
And that one thing can only be the good.
Although deeply rooted in Christianity, and for him the good is what God wills, he doesn't confine it to that for everyone else.
Explores every conceivable way someone could think they're willing the good and not doing so.
That we should be willing to do anything and everything for the good.
He gave himself to the good.He concludes the book with talk about the judgment.
I can't say enough about how much I loved this little work.
In this book he points out the essence of knowing oneself, of living and acting as one is and not as others would expect or as if actions blur one's vision of the one simple way - to will and to serve the Good.
I'm absolutely fascinated with how contemporary he is in his contemplation because it's so hard today to remain detached from the busy life and abrupt changes it brings about daily, blurring our vision for the essential.
It takes courage to enter this inner silence to meet one's true self and the Good.Fascinating book, invoking truth about life and Eternity.
"I tell you, we are here on Earth to fart around, and don't let anybody tell you different." - Kurt VonnegutAlthough I love that quote on some days,this Kierkegaard book also reached out to me and I can identify with it very much.
Of this work,someone said:"Kierkegaard slices through the masks and facades we construct that delude us into thinking that all is well with our soul.
With the skill and precision of a surgeon's hand, Kierkegaard opens up the true condition of our motivations in life and faith.
The text makes one want to become more devout so in that sense it is very challenging.
Puts one in the spotlight alone before God in which there is no place to hide.
The emphasis throughout is that you are an individual and that therefore you will be held accountable for your deeds because in eternity there is no place to hide.
In fact it's a text that should remain a lifelong companion.
To remind yourself that you are an individual with the constant responsibility to live as an individual and to "will one thing".
Read the book!
