https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2084776.Daniel_Boone
There is not one positive review of this long-forgotten book on Goodreads, and after giving it a whirl, I am sadly going to have to agree.
The illustrations are horribly racist and have the potential to give small children nightmares with their depictions of Indians as "savages" with gleaming, monster-like eyes wielding tomahawks with their bare chests painted wildly.
Daniel Boone is not depicted as a real person, he is depicted as a legendary god-like figure who deserves every bit of worship from Daughertry and every other living American.
So yeah, I didn't like it and don't ever expect my opinion to change.
The reviews of the this book are actually better than the book, not that the book is poorly written. Just written and illustrated at a different time. Polital Correctness has jaded peoples views of how the United States came to be. It wasn't all peaches and cream, your ancestors had to do what they could to make a life for them and their families.
An especially skilled writer might be able to give you a really strong sense of who the person is by way of telling everything he did, but James Daugherty was not that writer.This thing reads like an unending list of exploits with almost no dialog and far, far too many names and places.
Why wouldn't the writer instead focus on a few important people, and spend time turning the subject into a person, and not just some dead guy kids have to do reports on?Daniel Boone is a man who loved his family, the writer tells us, but very little in the book backs that up.
This book was only 100 pages, but what a terrible 100 pages it was. I don't even want to talk about it.
I forced myself to give this anti-masterpiece less than five stars because of the prevalent racism.
The notorious passage about shooting a Shawnee boy outside his burning house is truly stomach-churning, but after that the racism descends into the inanely quaint folly of yesteryear.
("Red varmints!") Of course, if you don't see how racism could ever be inanely quaint, then it will probably ruin the whole book for you.I would recommend this book to Ed Wood fans and anyone who enjoys epic failure.
I would never, ever, use it in a classroom uncensored.
Even after censoring, its only possible use is as an example of gorgeously terrible writing.
Newbery Winner 1940Seriously awful as a biography since it paints him as such a folk hero and not an actual person. Maybe okay as a tall tale if not for the horrific depictions of the native Americans. It set my teeth on edge. Bad enough when referencing them as red savages and similar comments, but these types of comments were just ridiculous, they "met personal tragedy of violent death with serene indifference." Really? Is that what it was?
Who'd have thought it a big enough place to merit a mention in the Daniel Boone story?Mostly though, this book was just a sort of recitation of activities in a surprisingly matter-of-fact voice.
I never saw a complete list of all of his offspring (dead or alive), and that in particular bothered me.So there you have it: I didn't like the illustrations, the author managed to make the settling of Kentucky mundane, and the best part was Daniel's wife telling him not to eat with a knife.
The author neatly sums up the entire story at one point with this awful sentence: "The spirits of the forest were beaten and the white gods prevailed."But on top of the hideous, violent content of this book, the writing is just terrible.
The story itself wanders all over the place, dropping characters in and out with hardly any explanation, leaving huge gaps in time and space, and interrupting itself periodically with outbursts of ecstatic patriotism that have nothing whatsoever to do with the plot.
There is no point mincing words with this one--this book is utter rubbish.
And, at last, I dared to read Daniel Boone.
It’s a story full of wicked Indians and good-guy white settlers, full of killing and attacking.
You can almost see Daniel’s halo and the devil horns of the Indians as you read the story.
It is told in the vernacular of Daugherty’s time and it is undoubtedly an interesting and exciting story.
Can it not be read as a story without vilifying either the Indians or the white people of the book?
What about reading it as a legend, a folk tale, which, of course, it is?
Nope. Nope. Nope.Would give less than one star, if possible.
The oversized format makes it awkward for adults to consider reading on their own as a serious piece of historical writing, though the starkly bold, linear drawings which illustrate the book will hold the interest of rough-and-tumble boys all right.
Many men—both white and Native Americans as well as Europeans--were privileged to come into contact with the man who conquered the wilderness with rifle, ax, plow and Bible.
You will have to read this book to learn how the fearless hunter and tracker ultimately kept his final “rendez-vous with destiny.” Fairly interesting reading--especially when referencing known figures of American history--but hardly scholarly.
Blatant racism and violence make this book completely unsuitable for the modern classroom.
Daniel Boone was an interesting character in US history and I would like to see a more balanced modern novel featuring his life.
James Daugherty sounds like he worshipped at the altar of Daniel Boone.
This book is really just for those who are out to complete the Newbery book list.
I did enjoy the style in which the book was written in some small portions, unfortunately, there is just so much racism in the book that it is overall unpleasant to read.

Newbery Medal Winner--1940I love me some frontier stories, but this wasn't as exciting as I was hoping. I mean...it's Daniel Boone! Frontier hero! Instead we just get one vague story after another of Indian massacres and hunting trips. There were a couple interesting tidbits that I learned--like that they tried to court martial Boone and that he was friends with Abraham Lincoln--but overall a not super interesting.
This one hasn't aged well, in my opinion. It was a dull retelling of a life full of adventure, and there was almost no contextualization of the conflicts between the Native Americans and the white settlers. Understandable, given the publication date, but not great for today's readers.
The boys chose this one because it "looked more exciting." We'll see how it goes.Update - I decided to ditch this book. After seeing the poor reviews I skimmed through it. I felt the writing was all over the place and knew my kids wouldn't understand or like it.
A childhood favorite with its uncritical view of westward expansion and the settlers.
I can see why some people have said this is the worst Newbery winner, but I would argue there are way too many contenders for that distinction.
Why not all agreed, as you can all read the book?""Just as New England was starting on her own to make an independent nation of contrivers and inventors, of munition-makers and sermon-preachers, so over the mountains to the West another America was making its own kind of democracy, making war with rifle and ax and plow, wiping out the Indians and buffalo, destroying the great forests, and raising up green armies of tall corn in the valley bottoms.
But above all those, I think that the reason this one's no longer in print is that it's boring as tar.I know, perhaps I'm not fully enjoying the experience because I'm too old or too young; I'm too modern or I've seen my own wilderness; on and on and on...Nope.
I believe that if the book was more interesting it would still be published today; we all know that settlers didn't get along with Indians, it's okay to write that stuff into historical fiction (that'd be the historical part).Perhaps the worst part was that I found myself not caring about what Daniel Boone was doing most of the time.
While I think there can be some value for modern children to read historical books that represent an outdated, prejudiced viewpoint (think, LITTLE HOUSE ON THE PRAIRIE, where the fear of Indians is clearly the perspective of Laura Ingalls Wilder as a child, a reflection of her experience, not a Gospel truth), when they are clearly presented as what they are and in contrast to stories that show non-stereotyped representations of Native Americans, I really can't find any value in DANIEL BOONE.
Sorry Newbery committee, but this one DOES NOT stand the test of time, and it's certainly not a shame that it is out of print.
My last Newbery medal winner to read and quite possibly, the worst of the lot.
Here's a brief passage:We pursued them until we got near the house, when we saw a squaw sitting in the door, and she placed her feet against the bow she had in her hand, and then took an arrow, and raising her feet she drew with all her might and let fly at us and she killed a man, whose name I believe was Moore.
I suspect that the only people who read this book are people like me who are trying to complete reading all Newbery medal winners.
“The quiet mild-mannered captain was famous all through the mountains for his cool courage and skill as an Indian fighter.” Daugherty tells a rousing story of dangerous excursions into the western frontier, the hewing of the Wilderness Road from Virginia to Kentucky, and gives a glimpse of what families went through as they heeded the siren call to the West.
“The life of a pioneer family was a comic-tragic drama of struggle and violence.” Details of the ferocity of the fighting among the colonists, British, French and Indian forces are not skimped on and readers will get an excellent primer on events in the wilderness of the new country in the latter part of the 1700s.
Newbery winning biography of the famed Daniel Boone.
It captures not just the attitudes of the Native Americans of Boone's time, but also the attitudes of the reading public in the late 1930s.
From this book it was hard to say what was real and true.
Clearly Daniel Boone was not a smart businessman.
But the book was readable if overly flowery and not especially insightful.
The copy I have is an oversized hardback with heavy cream pages and over done pencilled illustrations in brown and green - kind of an amazing difference from the rest of the Newbery editions.
I have so many conflicting feelings about this book. I’m sure that it is well written and accurate, but it really make me hate Daniel Boone. As someone of Native descent reading about how he killed Indians without any remorse made my stomach clench and gave me a bad taste in my mouth. Daniel Boone has been immortalized in pop culture to the point his name is held reverently almost to the point of George Washington and now has me rethinking everything I have ever learned about the supposed Founding Fathers.
This was a relatively short version of the life of Daniel Boone. It was actually a series of incidents, with long periods of time unaccounted for. Easy reading and well done.Pictures were lithographs done expressively.1940 Newbery winner
I think I have a pretty balanced view when I read literature, and I try to understand racism in historical context.
I'm trying to understand how this book came to be written in 1939 -- I feel like the ideologies central to WWII (i.e. eugenics, domination of "inferior races") must have been in Daugherty's mind.
It must also in a sense have been a response to fear of war -- it has a strong 'MERICA!
propaganda-like vibe to it.
If this isn't an overreaction to the fear and uncertainty of the time then I just can't explain his enthusiasm.
I thought the writing was pretty bad, especially considering the prestigious medal it received.
A rhapsodic, boisterous version of the life of the American frontier legend Daniel Boone.There is no denying that James Daugherty had an intense love of history, but this is a very uneven book for modern readers.
His lack of ‘book-larning’ and general carelessness is presented by Daugherty as further proof of his heroic nature.The anecdotes are somewhat compelling, but historical details are left sketchy – Daugherty apparently believed his young audience would already be pretty familiar with Boone and the major events of his time, which may have been the case in 1939.
It tells of Boone’s life in bits and pieces, from his birth in Pennsylvania to his trapping and trading and Indian-fighting in the wilderness of Kentucky.
He founds a frontier town in Kentucky, Boonesborough, and works as a pathfinder in the wilderness.
A simple man who can read and write, but not nearly as well as he can shoot and hunt and track, Boone tries his hand at farming, public office, soldiering, even land speculation (though he is far too kindhearted and naïve to make money at it, and loses all the land he fought so hard to claim).
Everyone has probably heard of Daniel Boone, but really you have to pick up this book and read the incredible adventure.
