https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30399.The_Switch
The Switch by Sandra Brown is a 2013 Grand Central Publication.
This book was originally published back in 2000 but was reissued by Grand Central a few years ago.
I have read many of Sandra Brown’s romantic suspense novels, but this one slipped by me somehow.
Now, I have to confess, the plot was pretty far out there in terms of plausibility, but the story read like a top-notch thriller, and thrillers are not always known for their high levels of plausibility.
I did guess at a few major plot twists, but, it did not impact my enjoyment of the book.
For the last 10% I was totally engrossed in the story.As with most books by Sandra Brown, you are better off not knowing too much about them, except maybe the premise.
It isn't the first time that identical twins Gillian and Melina Lloyd have switched identities.
Yet it's the first time as adults that they've even considered the childhood prank.
Melina, the more impetuous twin, proposes that her circumspect sister take her place as a media escort to NASA astronaut and national hero Colonel Christopher "Chief" Hart..
Maybe it would relax her enough to sleep ...
Yes, 5 stars for me! I can never go wrong with SB. This book had me hooked from the start. I binge read it til 2am. It was near the last chapter when I sorta figured it out. I was right on my who but not my what.....makes no sense to others I know :) I would recommend this book to all SB fans who have not read it yet and any other fans of romantic/suspense. The plot was awesome!
I'm never disappointed when I read a Sandra Brown's book. She has become synonymous with a one-click for me. The Switch was an addictive story with enough suspense and romance to make me want to stop doing anything else but read, The Setting:A pair of twins, Melina and Gillian Lloyd are having lunch together. During it, Gillian informs Melina that she has gone through an artificial insemination that morning. Melina is happy for her sister and she knows Gillian's current boyfriend is fine with i
The Switch was an addictive story with enough suspense and romance to make me want to stop doing anything else but read, The Setting:A pair of twins, Melina and Gillian Lloyd are having lunch together.
She's not about to behave like a kid again and she heads home instead.As a media escort, Melina's night assignment is to take Colonel Christopher "Chief" Hart to a gala.
The writing on the wall implies that someone had seen Melina and Chief together and they had assumed it was Gillian.
But, I guess it was necessary in order for the remaining twin and Chief to go looking for the killer.
I liked Chief.
I'm going to be really honest here: my reading time is pretty much limited to how long I can be in the bathroom by myself.
Since that is (usually) an extremely small portion of my day, I try to be very selective in my reading choices.
I'd rather spend my precious reading time on something I really enjoy."The Switch" was not bathroom worthy.My summary can best be summed up by this discussion:Husband: "What's that book about?"Me: "It's about an astronaut who has a one night stand with a twin and then the twin gets murdered and the astronaut and the other twin (you know, the live one) team up to find the killer who turns out to be controlled by some cult nut who tries to kills them while they fall passionately in lust with each other - the astronaut and the live twin, that is.
2.5 stars rounded down.There's an underlying premise that the astronaut called Chief (the H of the story) slept with one sister and then spends the rest of the story lusting after the other twin.
This had an ick factor for me even while I tried to wait for the ick to go away.
I simply don't buy that they didn't stay at the house after the twin chat.
But then the whole story of them on the run would just go away.
This felt stupid and contrived.So two of the primary premises failed for me and it's hard to buy into the plot which had so much potential.
O livro anterior que li da autora foi um pouco decepcionante mas este compensou em tudo. Muito bem estruturado e uma narrativa inteligente. Adorei de início ao fim.
É uma palavra (sigla?
expressão?) que define na perfeição este livro.
É daquele livros de dar a volta ao cérebro.
Desde a primeira página até à última o enredo tem o dom de prender o leitor.
A acção é constante, é activa e tem dinâmica.
As personagens estão muito bem construídas e dão um certo mistério a toda a história, que só é descoberto no final.
E até ao final não sabemos ainda como aquilo vai terminar.
Em todos os capítulos há uma reviravolta e fica-se completamente obcecado por ler o resto, só para tirarmos as dúvidas!
What an author she is, keeps ya guessing till the end and this book had a very big surprise ending!!Sisters, twins, identical in every way, Melina push's her twin Gillian to take her place in entertaining a celeb, for this is her business.
The celeb is an astronaut Col.
The following day, Melina receives terrible news that her twin has been murdered brutally and the Col is the prime suspect.
This book is a fast pacer, turn pager.......so will Melina wind up with Chief, will he be cleared, will the megalomaniac be caught, who has been ruining so many people's lives with murders, etc.....read it!
An unbelievable premise can sometimes turn into an entertaining book. Mirror Image (1990) and Play Dirty (2007) are two of Sandra Brown’s books I can recall. Unfortunately, the protagonists in  The Switch don’t have characteristics that I find attractive. The romance and storyline seem contrived despite the ambitious plot point like a villain with a delusional god complex and nefarious enterprise. Not my favorite.
Mais um livro fantástico da autora vou ler mais livros dela certamente!
Too far-fetched and the romance was meh.
Sempre estive muito reticente em acreditar nas palavras dela e eu cá tinha as minhas suspeitas.Quando o Chefe está na cela e está a pensar para ele, só serviu para confirmar aquilo que eu estava tão convencida.
Outro ponto muito importante são os temas que estão aqui em destaque: a inseminação artificial e a religião - ou a não religião já que estou a ser criteriosa.
Isto para dizer que para já, estes são dois temas que me interessam e que nem sempre são falados de maneira interessante com sucesso.
Gostava que eles tivessem ficado juntos.Concluindo, outro livro muito bom.
Este é um policial menos sangrento que alguns mas não deixa de cativar o leitor fazendo-o perder umas belas horas de sono!Sandra Brown tem aquele toque de ligar o romance ao policial que ela bem sabe e por isso torna o enredo deveras apelativo.Nesta obra temos duas irmãs gémeas: Melina e Gillian e estas são quase indistinguíveis.
Depois de uma ser brutalmente assassinada, a outra irmã sente-se bastante culpada pois houve uma troca de identidades.Depois de Melina ser alvo de acontecimentos para lá de estranhos pensa que a polícia se precipitou a resolver o caso e portanto tenta investigar por conta própria.A escrita é fluida e leve e as personagens são carismáticas e são brindadas com bastante humor.Vou ler mais obras desta senhora!
One of the few SB which didn't work for me. There is no objective reason for not liking it, true, the plotting was smart, the dialogue as great as it can be, the mystery was tick and with a multi-layered approach, still, I couldn't cope with the characters. Or the (stupid) premise. (view spoiler)[I cannot get behind the idea of a two thirty something old twins switching places in social situations just because they can. (hide spoiler)] But that's gotta be only me. Might work wonderfully for someone with a deeper sense of irony than myself.
3.5 stars
#29 for 2017 RCGenre : Suspense
A classificação correcta seria um 3,5*. Principalmente se comparar com o "Uma Voz na Noite".Gostei da estória, mas tive pena de ter adivinhado o desfecho logo a meio do livro, o que tirou o "encanto". Além de que só a meio do livro este se tornou de leitura compulsiva, para descobrir se as minhas suposições estariam correctas.No entanto não deixa de ser um bom policial, com o toque certo de romance-Uma autora a seguir.
Sandra Brown não desilude! Muito bom mas cansativo, já estava doida com estas gêmeas e sempre atenta a perceber as trocas que fizeram ou não fizeram... vi logo como ia ser possível saber quem era quem mas claro só no final é que se desvendou
3.5 ⭐️
First off, the pacing was awesome - it was PAINFUL to go to bed with the book unfinished.
I don't want to give anything away, but if it really happened the way that Sandra was saying that it did, then the inner narration on the part of the surviving twin doesn't make any sense.
She thought things that she wouldn't have, because she'd have already known the truth.
In other words, she was confused by things that she shouldn't have been confused by.However, if you want a fast read that enjoyable, then go for it.
Toliko Sandrinih trilera sam procitala tako da sam vec naucila kako citati izmedju redova :D
I love Sandra but this story was stupid.
I think the plot of this story was very good but the romance portion was very disturbing to me even after the plot twist that should've saved it.
I really can't say more without giving spoilers but if the book had been without the romance it probably would've been a four star read.
Strange that the romance ruined the book of a romance author but the premise of it was so skeezy I actually skipped most of those scenes and the plot twist turned it from creepy to...cruel I guess is the word I used.
Acaba por passar os sentimentos que tinha para com Gillian para Melina, por estas serem tão iguais e continuo a achar que tal deveria ter sido mais desenvolvido, pois a parte do romance neste livro foi pouco desenvolvida, chegando a baralhar os leitores.Apesar de no final haver uma grande revelação, acabei por desconfiar dessa mesma revelação ao longo do livro.
Não me estava a fazer sentido alguns dos pormenores da troca das gémeas e devo dizer que isso me ajudou no final.Apesar de ser um livro cuja parte de romance deveria ser melhorada, é uma história que nos prende do início ao fim, muito a dever-se ao talento que a autora tem para este género de livros.
I received “The Switch” by Sandra Brown as a Good Reads First Read.
One of my friends told me she is not a fan of Sandra Brown because she doesn’t enjoy the level of details Sandra uses when writing.
My friend prefers it when an author just gets to the point and lets the reader use his or her own creativity to fill in the details and create an image themselves.
Many of the details Sandra Brown uses when writing are relevant to the story.
I utilized the details to try to determine how the story was going to end.
3 1/2 stars.Gillian and Melina are identical twins.They switched identities regularly as children, b
3.5 StarsAs expected with an SB novel it was well written but I just didn't enjoy it as much as I normally do......Can't quite put my finger on why :(
Um excelente livro para quem gosta de uma história de mistério e com reviravoltas inesperadas! https://momentosdemagia.wordpress.com...
I was totally wrong.As usual, Brown really delivers on the character development within the story, she delivers on the premise (how in the world does she come up with this stuff?!?), she delivers on the descriptions, the convos between characters, the whole plot ...
if suspense is what you want, then Sandra Brown might be the author for you.
Basically, she lets you think that you know what in the world is going on just so that she can rip it away and give you something else to believe in ...
Guess I could have just said it's an awesome book ...
