https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17339.Poems
Read again for the fourth time, and finished in February of 2017.
I love the quote that introduces this book in the Goodreads description:"This is the best—the glorious best—of Lewis.
For here, with the gemlike beauty and hardness that poetry alone can achieve, are his ideas about the nature of things that lay behind his writings."—Christianity TodayI am not (typically) a big fan of poetry.
I can't write it and I usually don't appreciate reading it.
I love his poetry.
He writes about angels and nature, love and Dwarfs.
And I love it.
I finally get why people appreciate poetry.
Utterly profound but applicable and memorable.
This is the C.S. Lewis you don't know if you stop at Narnia and Mere Christianity.This is Lewis the classicist, injured in love, wrestling with lust, mourning a loved one, dreaming of that Island from Pilgrim's Regress, telling mysterious fairy tales, fearing Satan (overmuch), captivated by Christ's beauty, pursuing virtue, carrying the torch of the Romantics, defending antiquarianism, and so on.Rich and worthy of another read. Like his other books, the pages seem to contain his personality. Closing it is losing a friend.
Do you like C.S. Lewis? Like have an unhealthy obsession with him? Like "I'm a recent seminary graduate clinging desperately to comfortable certainty" obsession? Then sure, read this, why not. No one will ever be able to convince you it's not genius.Do you like poetry? Like, any poetic writing from Beowulf to Tracy K. Smith, Percy Bysse Shelley to Shel Silverstein? PUT THIS BOOK DOWN AND NEVER COME BACK. You're not doing yourself any favors.
This is quite a mixed bag. Some of the poems are very good. Many of the others were collected by Lewis' secretary, Walter Hooper, and published after Lewis' death. They show clearly that poetry was a hobby for Lewis and not one of his strengths. This does not in any way devaluate his many other contributions to literature. Worth wading through for the occasional gold nuggets.
I came to this book skeptical and left pretty humbled. These are fantastic. A few favorites: - A confession - The Adam Unparadised- The Turn of the Tide- Forbidden Pleasure - Evensong
Hooper includes an Appendix that indicates when certain poems were published and in which journal or book.
While I appreciate the thematic arrangement, I wish that each poem had some context on the page itself; I know it's work (horror of horrors), but it would be helpful to know as I'm reading each poem, when it was printed or written, where it was published, etc.
If the poems weren't published earlier, where were they found?
And give yourself freedom to skip around if the poem you're on doesn't grab you.Who should read this poem: poets, readers of poetry, CS Lewis fans
Because, to Lewis, "mythology was valuable not because monsters and fairies are literally true, but because they are 'words of a language which speaks the else unspeakable'" (Hooper's introduction).Also oft-recurring is the motif of pursuing an Island, the principal theme in The Pilgrim's Regress, and Lewis's own favored metaphor for his personal pursuit of Joy. The Island was Lewis's vision of the Real, the ultimate home, the only fulfillment of human desire.In my coracle of verses I will sing of lands unknown,—Sing about the Hidden Country fresh and full of quiet green,Sailing over seas uncharted to a port that none has seen.Such lines reinforce similar threads from That Hideous Strength (in references to Atlantis/Numinor), The Great Divorce (the realness of heaven), The Voyage of the Dawn Treader (the pursuit of Aslan's Country), and The Last Battle (in which the Shadowlands are bade farewell).Anti-ModernismLewis mistrusted and abhorred the contemporary, and the middle part of this collection comprises a critique of the modern.
It was not until recently that I found Lewis had written poetry.
Being not as well known for it, I did not expect it to be any kind of masterwork, and that was all one needs to remember to enjoy this.
There are three things that really stand out to me:1-Variety: Lewis writes his poetry on many different topics.
This makes it so that just about anyone could feel like it is something they would write.
It is not a thick book, and there is enough variety that you will probably find something you can enjoy.
I am reading this book but not in this edition though.
It is a very old book without the ISBN number on the back or in the copyright page.I just finish this book today at the doctor's office.
It is Poems by C.S. Lewis.
I am not used to read poems though.
Some does makes sense and some does make me scratching my head.
I found one of the best in his book.

Uneven but worth a look I have been a fan of C S Lewis for close to 50 years and read most of his fiction and theological works long ago with many rereadings.
Somehow I missed this collection of poetry published in 1964, shortly after his death.
Some seems like exercises in meter, internal rhyme and other technique, some is humorous, some feels like part of a conversation where I don't know the other part.
(Annotation might be helpful.) But there are some that shine forth, particularly some about prayer and some that seem to be about the death of his wife Joy.
"Joys That Sting" in particular is an amazing sonnet on grief.
While reading these poems was a great reminder that I am not as well-read as I should be, those I was literate enough to understand were thrilling. The poems about Joy made me cry and the poetry about prayer had me shouting, "Amen!" I wish he had written an entire poetry book "written by" dragons.
At Christmas, my sister gave me an earlier edition of this book she'd found at a thrift store. I may need to purchase the new version just for that fabulous cover art. I hadn't read much Lewis' poetry before, and am not surprised that I really like it.
A life-long favorite's heart in verse: How could I not like it?
Some gems in here, some that didn't work for me, and probably a majority that I did not understand wellenough to appreciate as they deserve.
A lovely collection of poems! Some thought provoking; some just fun! Take a few hours and get lost in some poetry!
More like 3.5 stars.Some: excellent, fantastic, great. Others: eh. The second half is better than the first. I have a feeling I'll keep returning to it.
Lewis is not the greatest poet but there is still great beauty in many of his verses.
Definitely some five star moments.
Read over a period of several months, so as not to potatochip them, these poems form a nice constellation of Lewis's thought.
There are light poems and heavy, rhymed and un-.
Some of them use unusual forms (internal rhyme schemes, alliterative verse); others are straightforward sonnets and such.The first section ("The Hidden Country") deals with light and often fantastical matters.
Then comes "The Backward Glance," a set of poems largely on scientific and critical matters.
"A Larger World," paradoxically, goes deeper; and then "Further Up & Further In" becomes very personal indeed, meditations on Lewis's own soul.
It turns out that Lewis, who published a considerable bit of short pieces during his life under a pseudonym, is up there with the best of the also-rans of the last century (think of guys like Delmore Schwartz and John Ciardi)-- he's not on a level with the great ones, but there are certainly lines worth remembering, and there's an impressive amount of technical dexterity.
The introduction by Walter Hooper is also insightful and contains some great reminisces-- I love that Lewis, whose memory is the stuff of legend, couldn't remember his own poetry.
This book is Walter Hooper’s collection of various C.S. Lewis poems written throughout his life.
The poetry here is so much better than the poetry in Dymer!
Maybe because Lewis never intended most of them to be published, they have a beautifully relaxed quality.
They seem like poems that naturally popped into his head, rather than words he strained to generate.
(Of course, that also means some of them feel slightly unfinished).
The book would be improved with a few footnotes, both to source allusions and to provide context of where/when poems were written and/or published.More details: http://hannahgivens.wordpress.com/201...
My favorite poems, in order of best first, were "The Dragon Speaks," then "The Prudent Jailor." I also liked "The Magician and the Dryad," and many more.
Apparently, this collection includes poems from different points in Lewis' spiritual development, and it wasn't always clear when in his life he wrote each one.
I found his other dragon poem, the one about eating the dragon's hot, living heart, disturbing, especially in the context of the book it was included in, Pilgrim's Regress.
I liked "The Dragon Speaks" because it so potently captured the dragonish attitude of greed and selfishness...a good companion to the chapter "The Adventures of Eustace" in The Voyage of the Dawn Treader.
CS Lewis, it seems, was better at appreciating poetry than writing it, but given his skills this is no insult. There are some gems in this book. What I found most enjoyable was the insight into the mind and experience of Lewis. As poetry should, these little morsels reveal intimate details of how Lewis understood life - from the faerie world and literature of the Ancients to his own memories and fears.I will be savoring it for a while.
What a treasure trove. I'm a bad judge of the quality of style in poetry, but in terms of C.S Lewis wisdom there's so much to be experienced here. Lewis may be a failed poet but he hardly failed at his poetry."Have you not seen that in our daysOf any whose story, song, or artDelights us, our sincerest praiseMeans, when all's said, 'You break my heart'?"Consider me heartbroken and delighted.
It took me 4 months to read this book. Lewis uses a lot of Old English phrases that I'm not that familiar with and makes a lot of references to Greek mythology that I am also not that familiar with. I might just need to stick with Dorthy Parker "Once, when I was young and true, Someone left me sad- Broke my brittle heart in two; And that is very bad."
I love anything Lewis, but it was harder to appreciate the range of poems that he has written. I loved some, and barely understood or appreciated others. I'll come back to them for a second read after I get through more of his letters, which may shed additional light on what he was thinking at the time.
This is a collection of C.S. Lewis' poems. I enjoyed made of these pieces. Themes include the loss of friendship and love through death, God, and how we, as humans, have been given some glories that angels cannot know.
A beautiful glimpse into the inner-workings of the mind of a brilliant man.Lewis writes about philosophy, religion & mythology, unicorns, dragons & space, love, time & reason. His boundless imagination is the gilded strand that captivates & bewitches readers.
