https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1635.Execution
Execution: The discipline of Getting Things Done: Larry Bossidy and Ram CharanCentral Truths:1. Execution is a systematic process of rigorously discussing hows and whats, questioning, tenaciously following through, and ensuring accountability.2. No company can deliver on its commitments or adapt well to change unless all leaders practice the discipline of execution at all levels.3. You need robust dialogue to surface the realities of the business.4. How people talk to each other absolutely deter
Organizations don’t execute unless the right people, individually and collectively, focus on the right details at the right time.6.
Leader must have emotional fortitude to be able to be honest with yourself; deal honestly with business and organizational realities; or give people forth right assessments.17.
Leaders need to commit as much as 40% of their time and energy (emotional) to selecting, appraising, and developing people.31.
Seven essential behaviors of leaders: know your people and your business; insist on realism; set clear goals and priorities; follow through; reward the doers; expand people’s capabilities; and know yourself.4.
What a completely over-rated book.
I suspect this made the top 20 best-ever booklist that led me to it on the basis that the title sounds good, like something a knowledgeable business person should advocate.
Some business books are thoughtful; others make me really dislike business culture in general.
Bossidy and Charan's pompous tone was omnipresent, but the pinnacle came with Bossidy's way of explaining that every employee assessment should include something developmental, since even "The Good Lord had some development needs." I was slightly amused at their summary of the typical strategy review (a boring 4-hour sleeper that ends up decorating a credenza), but then sobered by the discussion about the engagement and discussion that should happen.
As a CEO or a leader at the top level management, it is wrong to only focus on the planning or big pictures.
The 'modern' style of managing is to also make sure how to get the things done.
Do not blame the staffs if execution goes wrong.2.
To do point 1 above, make sure you hire good people that are entitled to get things done.
To do so, you have to use all channels of reference checking, contact people that know your candidates closely.Very inspiring, but could have been written in a much more concise way.
It took me until now to read it, but now I understand why he had such high praise for the book.
It's about getting the right people in place, building a strategy around the resources available, and finally implementing the strategy, linking the strategy with people.As with many other books on management science, the veracity of the concepts is undeniable: Nothing is more important than people, candid dialogue leads to realistic plans, following up is crucial in implementation of a strategy.
If there is one thing I would like to add to this book however, it would be as follows:Execution is learned through practice, not just reading.
that's what I think at least.
So many business books read like a rehash of a boring seminar and this is no exception.
Every page could be a power point.
Every line could be a bullet point.
Everything is crafted for presentation with very little background, substance or reference.
Anecdote is not evidence, yet anecdote is ever-present.
You know, it reminds me of sitting through talks and speeches in church when I was a kid.
All Mormon talks are exactly like this - a few bullet points, an anecdote, a weak conclusionary statement and a call to action.
It's not worth reading, in my opinion, because it's full of jargon and puffery.
Who knows if the wall of corporate verbiage has any meaning or not?
I am not.As to the puffery, the book makes out plain prudence to be some great new discovery.
This is not even marketing, but simply spin, as far as I can see.
Because the authors are corporate leaders, this book is treated better than it deserves.
It deserves to be treated as an marketing addition to the authors' resume, rather than as a serious addition to the literature on prudence.Just avoid it.Edit: Serious about dramatically increasing execution?
Начинал читать в ожидание, что найду в книге инструменты, решения, шаблоны для поднятия исполнительной функции в компании и достижение. Книга больше по стратегическому планированию и исполнению стратегии. Никаких фреймов нет, но по стратегии, созданию стратегии, обсуждению, это по-моему одна из лучших книг. Для топов и руководитель любого направления будет очень полезна!
Forty percent of a leader's time should be spent on selecting, evaluating, and providing feedback to their people.I've heard something similar to this many times, but I loved the way the authors worded this - "We don't think our way into a new way of acting, we act our way into a new way of thinking".I totally agree with the thoughts on senior leadership teams.
Internally competitive behavior is destructive and people who cannot work with other drain an organizations capacity.Overall I enjoyed the book, it just didn't offer much new content for me personally, I would not hesitate to recommend it as a good book on Leadership and Execution.
A rambling mess that seemed to have never crossed an editor's desk, this book read as though it was literally spoken into a tape recorder, transcribed and then published.
As to its subject matter: I cannot think of one bromide the "authors" managed to leave out, particularly of the tautological sort.
The authors have obviously done a great deal in the business world, done it quite well and should have a great deal of constructive, practical advice to offer.
Well, it ain't in this book, gang.
I don't know what they were reading, but it could not possibly have been this mess.
Система достижения целей" очень хорошая, основательная и тщательно проработанная книга в которой приведено множество принципов, моделей и способов управления персоналом с целью незамедлительной, а главное качественной реализации бизнес-панов а также целей предприятий.Авторы не просто люди оторванные от действительности теоретики, а люди которые достигли высоких позиций в корпоративном секторе и весьма успешные личности.
И возможно поэтому книга у них получилась очень насыщенная и ценная, а её рецепты готовы для применения во многих видах бизнеса.Основная ценность книги в том, что авторами изучены проблемы провалов хороших стратегий компаний с идеальными бизнес-планами даже в руках сильных лидеров вместе с отличными командами управленцев.
I might have missed the point of this book, but what I came away with was:- This is a book based in a different time and while execution is as fundamental to business success the "incarnation" in this book and its implementation is obsolete.- It's hard to take it too seriously when statements that are key to the message of the book are based upon bad data.- Most of what's usable in this book is just "re-branded" common sense.
While they are good reminders they do not inspire nor impress.- Stop trying to dazzle me with large figures.
I simply do not care.
… The reason most companies don’t face reality very well is that their dialogues are ineffective (Pg. 103 – paragraphs 2 – 3).”WHAT KIND OF PEOPLE ARE YOU LOOKING FOR?“The person who is a little less conceptual but is absolutely determined to succeed will usually find the right people and get them together to achieve objectives.
I enjoyed stories about good leadership who executed by hard work, follow-up, and emotional fortitude, using open dialogue and allowing people to take ownership and build themselves by accomplishing specific executable goals.
I also learned that business plans have to be so detailed, they become daily guides.The only thing I didn't like is that they wrote the book from the perspective of huge company, in the billions of dollars of sales category.
In my company we now have and operating plan, and are working on stepping our managers up to a culture of accountability.The authors recommendations will become a guided plan for becoming as execution oriented as Honeywell and GE.I still, highly recommend this book.
There were some good things to think about as far as open and honest feedback from reviews and assessment.
There were also some good points on when to take coaching opportunities.
Most of the book was about setting expectations and following through by holding people accountable.
The authors assume that money is the primary motivator of employees.
They also assume that most everyone who is not in management wants to be promoted into management.
I did not really enjoy this book, it sort of made me edgy.
A few interesting and helpful suggestions, but for the most part it was a lot of verbiage without much actionable content. Geared for much larger organizations with a larger hierarchical structure of authority where one can push off the actual process of doing to many direct reports.
I was lucky enough to work at AlliedSignal and participate as Larry Bossidy ran the Execution machine he describes in this book. I have found it invaluable in transforming organizations of all sizes.
I think the book is overrated. Although it includes some useful tips, however it lacks the deep thoughts that one can expect form such an over-hyped book.
This is a must read for anyone working in a corporate office, small business, or hot dog stand. In the 5 or 6 years since reading, time and time again I have thought about the things I learned here.
3 Building Blocks of Execution #A – The leaders 7 essential behavior1. Know your people and businessa. Master the art of questioning and take questions – you intuitively know the culture and how well the managers normally communicates w/ the workforce. b. Build personal connection – absent that personal connection, you are just a name.c. Conduct business reviews – show up as a way of your appreciation and a reward for their extensive preparation. It’s not an interrogation, but take the form of a
Rigor cadence (rhythm) of the business – strategy planning, operating plan, business reviews…Robust dialogue – effective meetings, plannings, reviews, the difference is in the quality of the dialogue, starts from the top.#C—Having the right people in the right place1.
You need to probe deeply, have structured interview to frame your questions which focus on details (not just high-level strategy or philosophy), how to set priorities, qualities, decision making process, energy level…2.
Candid dialogue – practice, such that you have enough confidence to give areas for improvements.3 Core Processes of Execution#A The People Process1.
Through the skill of having the courage to practice the art of asking the right questions, a leader can keep those three aligned and moving in the right direction.
It's the leader's job first and foremost to ensure the overall plan is executed.
Before reading this book I thought the key thing was having an "impact".
Reading this book literally slapped that thought out of my head and replaced it with "execution".
As a result of reading this book I am beginning to ask questions of how certain things will impact other things.
This is one of the better leadership/management books that I have come across.
Like most books of the genre, it stresses goals and visions as essential to moving forward, but this book takes it in a different direction: at some point, you need to stop dreaming and start doing something.Execution stresses a more hands-on approach to leadership.
It's not enough to simply sit back and be the idea guy hoping that someone else is taking care of the work.
The book is generally written for the CEO level, but the majority of the lessons are transferable to any level of leadership/management.
This is a vintage read from the early 2000s. It is directed towards CEOs and those who want to be CEOs. All that aside, I enjoyed it and I have retrieved some useful nuggets of information that I am able to apply in my current position which is far from the CEO suite. It is a good thing to view the world of work from the top level instead of the trenches. It tends to help put things into perspective for us working guys.
Started off very strong and somehow became less impressive towards the end. For some reason, it felt less precise, even though it was describing the operations and strategy processes. Nonetheless, I wholeheartedly support its core premise that you have be specific about how to get things done.
Tends to get repetitive and loses its luster as it moves ahead. It does provide good use cases and a certain direction but too many times just gives mixed signals and foggy discussions. Good one time read and should be used as a milestone to move to sterner literature on execution frameworks.
Not an easy read, but great stuff. Must be read several times.
this is a good book for all management people.
A fantastic treatise for every business leader from division level through CEO to read and absorb. The three core processes—people, strategy and operations—are the heart and soul of business and the authors bring numerous case studies and business examples to the table for the reader. A must read for anyone aspiring to high level management and leadership in business today.
Basic business book with all the key words, but also with solid examples... so it evened out, without impressing me. Fundamental idea is that goals without plans are just wishful thinking.
This is definitely a business book and I am certainly not a business person. I learned, but it wasn’t really written for me as an audience.
Bom livro de negócios: daqueles que resume bem, contém bons exemplos e modelos de atuação.
