https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/49737.The_Pride_of_the_Peacock
Unfortunately it's one of her books that dwells too much on the heroine's childhood and family.
The first 1/2 of the book was dedicated to the sad story of the heroine's mother and the history of the famed Green Opal and of opal mining.
And opals.With this set up, the hero would have to be something really special to redeem this book.
He actually gifts her a valuable opal under the heroine's nose.
And the murderer turns out to be a crazy bat, driven crazy by the Green Opal.
The Pride of the Peacock was actually the very first Victoria Holt novel I ever did read, at around age thirteen or so, and in German translation (where it is titled Der Fluch der Opale (a bit of a differently translated heading than the English original, basically having the meaning of "the curse of the opals).
Two and a half stars, rounded down from my original three star rating, as The Pride of the Peacock, while still mildly enjoyable, also does now leave me rather cold and somewhat annoyed and frustrated.
I am currently re-reading this book.
My Grandma Georgianna once gave me a stack of books she had finished and this was among them.
I have read it several times.
The protagonist, Jessica, is a headstrong young lady born around 1880, and as she comes of age she discovers much of what she knew about her family was not the truth.
The story moves between a family estate in England and the opal mines of Australia.
Every time I read it, I think about how much I would love the movie!
Victoria Holt is one of my favorite authors! I first fell in love with her when I was in 6th grade and read "Mistress of Mellyn." In fact, as soon as I finished the book, I started reading it again. Since then I have probably read it 6 or 7 times. Through the years I have read most of the books by Mrs. Holt.
4 and  Stars! Mystery, Opals and Love with a Peacock in Victorian AustraliaSet in the Victorian era (about 1880), beginning in England, this is the story of Opal Jessica Clavering, the youngest daughter in a family that treats her as if she doesn’t belong. At one time the family was wealthy, but now they live in the Dower House next to the estate, Oakland Hall, they once called their own.When she is 16, Jessica makes friends with the owner of Oakland Hall, Ben Henniker, an opal miner who made hi
Ben offers her the chance for a new life and Jessica takes it even though it includes a marriage of convenience to his illegitimate son, Josslyn Madden (“Joss”), called “the Peacock” for his pride and his home, Peacocks, in Australia.Once married, Joss returns to Australia with Jessica, who begins to wonder if her husband isn’t planning to kill her.
The fact he wants to see how Jessica changes as she “grows up” suggests he might like her after all.The characters are richly drawn, the story absorbing and the excitement subtle as Jessica takes on the mystery of the missing jewel, the murder and her husband.
In the first half, the setting is England and the reader is introduced to Jessica Clavering.
Eventually the son comes from Australia and they're off to OZ to solve the mystery of the missing Opal (that part of the story is too hard to explain and I still have more reviews to write today).
This was fun, although it did take a bit too long for things to start happening - would have preferred to get to Australia sooner rather than half-way through.
The mystery of the missing Opal (and the curse that went with it) was fun, even though I was pretty sure I guessed it.
Reading this book is like opening a door to another time full of charm and romance.
It's a pity I had to wait nearly until the second half of the book to hear about the arrogant and handsome Joss.
The first half takes place in rural England.
The second half is set in the heart of Australia.
This book has the perfect ingredients for a successful story: mystery, an arranged marriage, love, exotic locations, cursed jewels, an adventurous heroine, a brooding hero and a happy ending.
However, the story picks up steam in the second half.
This is the very first long novel that I have read in full, when I was just a teenager way back in high school. I read it through the 1974 Reader's Digest Condensed Books copy of it. It was really wonderful!
This was the first book I read by Victoria Holt. I was in 8th grade-and fell in love w. the intrigue the author is famous for. I still love all her books to this day...some I have read 2-3 times.
My mom's friend recommended that I read this book, and I am glad that I did.
After she confronts her mother, who is actually her grandmother, about the lies, Ben falls ill and arranges for her to marry his only son, Joss also known as " The Peacock" around the mining camp.
Joss is arrogant and Jessica hates him but agrees to marry him.
Once they are married they sail back to Australia to run Ben's Mining company.
Once there Jessica is thrust into a completely different world than she is used to.
A close friend of Joss's is murdered.
I enjoyed this book.
I am a closet Holt lover.
I usually hide the cover of the book somehow especially since some covers are quiet embarrassing.
I don't read for the "love" but the suspense.
I love how their is always a mystery that takes you on a great journey.
It might have started that way from the time my sister told me the story when I was quiet a bit younger.
She was great at reading a book and then retelling me the whole story while we did chores and such.
Love the story and the magical places.
One of my favorite Victoria Holt romances, this introduced the land of Australia to me long before Bill Bryson had me in stitches reading about it. the main characters are spirited and fascinating, even likable. You're kept guessing up til the very end, which did not disappoint me. Even though I last read this book years ago, I still remember it fondly as something I really enjoyed and read again and again.
I had read lots of Victoria Holt as a teenager and wanted to check her out again. Looking at it again from an adult perspective, it seemed predictable, but I don't remember thinking that then.
Reviewed by JulieBook provided by NetGalleyOriginally posted at Romancing the Book I loved this story as I do most all of Victoria Holt’s novels.
The big mansion, the strange family secrets, arranged marriages, madness, murder, and of course romance.Jessica happened upon a disabled man named Ben and helped prevent him from having a nasty accident.
Because of gambling debts her family has come down a notch or two financially and there is a great deal of bitterness directed towards Ben. Jessica continues to visit the grand home until she is given a letter written by the mysterious “Jessica” buried on the property.
Suddenly, she finds herself an heiress with a new husband that she isn’t sure she can trust, and is on her way to Australia in search of the opal, the “Green Flash” that has played a part in her family history and tragedies over the past several years.
They were slow to develop, and presented little challenge or action until Herrick moves into the family’s former great house.
And oh how long ago that was (some 35 years) when I read this in a Dutch translation, secretly borrowed from my mother's collection.
A while ago this appeared as one of the choices of the monthly selection of my book club; I found a copy in English and anxiously put it on my bookshelves.
I didn't like the part where this isn't a romance by today's standards.
I liked the slow build-up and I also remembered just why I loved, and why I still like large parts of this book: the setting in the second half: Australia.
This is a good way of chilling out for me, apart from a little irritation in places, there is no effort involved in reading Victoria Holt's books, and I always enjoy her storylines.Her writing is mediocre and she has a tendency to promote melodrama at the expense of logic within the narrative. However, I don't set my expectations high and when I feel like an easy, unchallenging read, she is one of the authors that I can return to, knowing exactly what to expect.
I learned about Victoria Holt from a friend who has loved them for many years. Her specialty is mystery novels in historical settings. I had a lot of fun with this book. It is a pretty light, easy read and has suspense and romance all mixed up together. I like the historical settings and the fact that they are romantic and yet clean. I will read more from this author.
Books written by Victoria Holt are so cheesy, but sometimes that's exactly what you need. I've read a loooot of her books when I was 14/15 years old..that was the last time I've read them. I absolutely loved them at the time. I'm thinking of reading one of her books just for the old times sake! =)
I borrow this book for Brooke this summer and it was such a fun read. It is Brookes favorit book and her moms as well.
Re-read January 2015
One of my favorite books as a child, strangely enough. Inspired my love of opals! I keep the copy from my great-grandmother's house displayed in my living room.
New Gothic. A bit dated, but still enjoyable.
I read this as a teenager and still remember it so I must have liked it.
Great historical love story
one of my favorite books
Classic romance and suspense! Victoria Holt is wonderful and any book by her will be a delight to read!
Someone at the library suggested this book to me. It was really dumb.
My favorite of hers.
3.5 Este es un libro donde todo transcurre muy lento, donde no hay una gran trama con aventuras sino más bien en 200 pagina se lee es la vida cotidiana de la protagonista Jessica y un leve misterio que hay sobre su primer nombre “Ópalo” y sobre la tumba que encuentra.Si bien de vez en cuando disfruto leer libros así y que no lleguen aburrirme y en este así fue, pero también tiene que ver con un gran personaje al que le tomé cariño y que hizo la lectura interesante y es Ben.Todo sigue así hasta 300 pagina sin grandes emociones o giros y yo estaba muy bien con eso mi interés no había caído y la lectura me estaba encantando.El problema viene cuando hacia el final la autora retoma el misterio que dejó olvidado y encima mete un romance apresurado y poco creíble.Los protagonistas no se conocían entre sí, aunque hablaban no lo hacían de algo personal o profundo, había muchos malentendidos entre ellos y de repente uno dice que está enamorado?!
