https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36510196-old-man-s-war
This is, for me, a pretty short review as the key novel element here is one that it is fun to discover in the book, and not spoiling that severely limits what I can discuss.I really enjoyed Old Man's War and think you should read it.
It's vivid modern almost literary writing unfolding a fascinating take on future earth.The first half felt modern with a gentle touch on characterization, a fresh idea, diversity, a book of its time.
The second half felt more like 60's/70's sci-fi - blasting bad guys in space.
Do not mourn me, friendsI fall as a shooting starInto the next life Holy Mother Of Graham Crackers! This book was awesome 😄When you're an old person, you can sign up to go out into the galaxy to fight in the alien war. WHAT? John Perry decided to do this when he turned seventy-five. His wife had been dead for awhile so he had nothing to lose. Or did he? He went through this process and had to leave the Earth forever. Dead to the Earth. John found some good friends on the way to their destinatio
This book was awesome 😄When you're an old person, you can sign up to go out into the galaxy to fight in the alien war.
John Perry decided to do this when he turned seventy-five.
His wife had been dead for awhile so he had nothing to lose.
He went through this process and had to leave the Earth forever.
Dead to the Earth.
John found some good friends on the way to their destinations.
They even gave themselves a name, The Old Farts.
😊They were separated when they went to combat training.
Only two of each went to the same place.
And even for a science fiction novel I thought a lot of the plot was just unbelievable; the main character seems to excel at and have the answer to everything while his fellow soldiers get killed left and right.
A lot of the technology was interesting and also easy to understand, but I felt like too much time was spent on leading up to the main story.
It's just too bad that I don't really care about his characters, because then these books would be a lot more enjoyable.
And that's about it.There is a strange juxtaposition between humor and brutality here that didn't necessarily work for me.I guess when I read a Science Fiction book, I don't expect the most interesting parts to be the multiple, creative ways in which different alien species inflict death upon their enemies.This, coupled with a rather boring plot & characters I couldn't feel connected to at all left me with little to praise.Around the 90% mark I felt an overwhelming apathy to see the book through.
At the end of the day, he pressed Scalzi's Old Man's War into my hands.
I knew Scalzi — I follow him on Twitter, we've sat on panels together, I could pick him out in a line up with confidence — but none of these things necessarily translates into someone's fiction.
Online, Scalzi is a warm, unflinching, sentimental, humorous shit-stirrer.
And Old Man's War is a warm, unflinching, sentimental, humorous shit-stirring sci-fi.
What Old Man's War has is an enormous beating heart powering all the training montages and alien action sequences.
the template has been around for a while, Starship Troopers et al, and Old Man's War doesn't stray from the tried-and-true.but as anyone even slightly familiar with the novel's premise knows, this traditional narrative gets a shot of adrenalin by having the hero be a 75-year old man who finds not just a new life, but a new body by joining up with humanity's defenders.
because of new soldier John Perry's past life, the novel has actually been injected with a massive dose of wry introspection and not a little melancholy.
A Heinlein fan will compare this most readily to Starship Troopers and Scalzi has brought this classic into vogue with some innovative twists.
Essentially he has taken the best of Heinlein and modernized it for readers of today.I enjoyed the book, especially from the perspective of a Heinlein fan and as a veteran; the scene where the new Colonial Defense Forces meet their drill instructor, Master Sergeant Ruiz, is a classic that will make anyone who has ever been to basic training howl when reading.
Scalzi, through Ruiz, makes a subtle but distinct twist on the stereotypical humorous drill instructor spiel.
From the first time I sat down to read it, I felt invited and welcomed into the world Scalzi was creating.
I enjoyed meeting and spending time with the characters he creates, who are mostly interesting and intelligent people that you'd want to know.
I loved the digressions about the morality of following orders, and war as the easy way to deal with conflict.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the recent changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
And how is the CDF going to turn all these old farts into fighting machines?I was really proud of my deductive reasoning in figuring out that this book was an homage to Robert Heinlein's Starship Troopers, but then I realized I'm like the umpteenth millionth person to figure that out, and anyway there it is, right in Scalzi's acknowledgements at the end of the book.
Whatever the reason may be, if you hate war, this won't be your kind of book.So just understand that this is an action-packed, imaginative book with lots of violence, and have fun and roll with it.
John Perry enlists in the Colonial Defense Force on his 75th birthday and gets whisked off to war in a new and improved body, defending Earth's colonies against alien races.
It's narrated in the first person and John Perry is a pretty funny guy.The Scalz has a lot of great sf concepts packed into Old Man's War; you've got the new bodies the senior citizens are given upon enlisting, the beanstalk, the skip drives, alien species that aren't humanoid, the list goes on and on.
While the concept of 75 year old military recruits sounds like comedy fodder, it's actually pretty well explained.
This was a really fun read!
Yes it is science fiction but there is a whole lot more to it than that, so even if you are not a sci fi fan you could still enjoy this book.Old Man's War tells the story of aging people on Earth who volunteer for an off planet life in the army in return for a 'makeover'.
Of course there are also futuristic gadgets and space travel but none of it is too deep or over explained.I really enjoyed the main character who turned out to have a lot more going for him than anyone was aware of.
Definitely worth reading.
If somehow you read my Old Man's War review first before others (yeah, highly improbable), my first advice is: STOP reading this review, just read the book first!===========OK, so you want me to elaborate more on this review?Saying I had a good experience enjoying this book is an understatement: (view spoiler)[ when I read the rather sad and serene first chapter, I almost forgot the title of the book has word "War".
But I saw this book as a niche sub-genre in SF: Humorous Military/Space Opera SF (for example Vorkosigan Saga, Phule's Company, Bill, the Galactic Hero, or Willful Child).
For this niche sub-genre, OMW is one of the best.
A nice mix of philosophical and humorous observations, especially in the beginning, manage to capture the tone of an older person looking back on a long life.The beginning starts with John, the main character, entering a recruiter's office to review and sign his enlistment contract.
Scalzi raises interesting philosophical issues that are somewhat at odds with the rest of the book, and are never really able to be resolved.
It was a satisfying read, and enough to lead me to his next book."They are four words that so inadequately and so perfectly sum up a life."Cross posted at: http://clsiewert.wordpress.com/2013/0...
Together with new friends, with whom he establishes the Old Farts Club and makes mutual promises to support each other, he starts a new life in the army.
Answers to these questions (and more!), you will find in this incredible novel.“That’s one of the reasons the CDF selects old people to become soldiers, you know - it’s not just because you’re all retired and a drag on the economy.
“Old Man’s War” is not a book for those who appreciate a thorough world building as in this whole madness of intergalactic war there were hardly any opportunities to get to know the alien races in a manner more than perfunctory.
[4.5 stars] I’m so glad I finally started The Old Man’s War series – it’s every bit as good as I’d hoped it would be.
The first half of the novel moved at a significantly slower pace than the second half, which was great because it felt more organic, giving the latter parts of the book higher impact by contrast.
I’m hoping it will smooth out a bit in the second book (which I will definitely be reading ASAP).Overall, Old Man’s War was one of the most interesting science fiction I’ve read.
I think it fits the bill as both a must-read for seasoned sci-fi lovers and a great introductory novel for new readers of the genre.
*** 4.25 *** "... “Part of what makes us human is what we mean to other people, and what people mean to us. I miss meaning something to someone, having that part of being human.”... ... ... “What is it like when you lose someone you love?" Jane asked."You die, too. And you wait around for your body to catch up.”...." This one sentence is how I felt after I lost the person I loved most in this life... It is a good thing we, as humans, always strive and tend to find other humans to relate to in or
I am going off into deep, so let's get back to the Old Man's War. Imagine our world, a place deeply entangled in an interstellar and inter-species war, having the technology to "rejuvenate" human aging, but it only works in space and is only provided when you sign off your life to the Space Military and give up your Earth citizenship for ever.
I liked the book very much, despite it being a bit too close to the work that inspired it once you get past the old-being-young-again thing.
Old Man's War is, however, not written well.This book is bad.
It was fun in spurts, but, on the whole, this book was, as I said, bad.
So why do they all talk like wise-cracking 20-somethings, fresh off a network sitcom?
I mean everyone, as well, from the good guys to the bad guys, the chicks and the dudes.
So far, I really can't trust other people's ratings or reviews to give me a clue as to what's good.
And, to be fair, I don't really find anything all that good.Which leads me (jarringly) to my second point: The exposition.
Awful. 'I did this cool thing, then I saved some people, then I single handedly rescued the mission, even though I was the least qualified, then I came up with this cool idea and got promoted. I was a green superhuman too.'
The story is told in an oddly clinical fashion that leaves a sort of feeling that you're being given a report on story instead of the story itself.
The story moves along briskly enough, but I'm left oddly unmoved by the protagonist's experience.
The protagonist himself is so unmoved by these achievements that it is only on looking back that I start to wonder if the guy has purple eyes and red hair (he doesn't *g*).
The whole thing is done with a sort of detached air of nonchalance that doesn't really engage.Briskly paced, entertaining, cool world building (if a little lacking on detail) and oddly clinical.
He quickly learns how the CDF makes good on their promise to make soldier young again, and also finds out that the war they’ll be fighting is incredibly brutal and that most won’t survive their enlistments.
The idea of humans fighting wars out in space with advanced technology is nothing new, but Scalzi did a great job of taking fresh approaches to this concept.
It’s filed with rip-roaring battle scenes, and the alien opponents he created are also several notches above what you usually get in these space war type books.
“Our job is to go meet strange new people and cultures, and kill the sons of bitches as quickly as we possibly can." Well, that's a new concept. Thank goodness we've never done anything like that here on Earth. This is happening in space.Oh, there's a special day for that? Ooops. Better bring a pie over to the neighbors later. They live in a box on the corner now. I gave them some blankets that my kids used when they had chicken pox, so they are staying warm. I'll bring them some beer too. Alco
“Our job is to go meet strange new people and cultures, and kill the sons of bitches as quickly as we possibly can."
You suck!I need directions to the nearest nursing home that has been featured on a news expose' In this story, Earth has learned to travel in space and has been colonizing planets for years.
Plus, old people are great at learning new technology and love change.
Maybe that seems strange, but you get a sense that they have histories, not just that they are characters who feel like they just came into existence for the book's sake.
I didn't really know what to expect when I started reading this book.
The first half of the book was a breeze to read and was peppered with a lot of humour that had me laughing out loud.
The second half is where the action really starts and the tone of the book changes quite significantly.
Decimating alien races which have a taste for human flesh might seem acceptable but where does one draw the line in fighting for the ideal planets for human colonization.
The one instance which left a huge distaste (view spoiler)[ was the attack on the one-inch tall Covandu race.
E foi pensando nisso que o protagonista de Guerra do Velho, John Perry, decide se juntar às Forças Coloniais de Defesa (FCD) ao chegar nessa idade.Uma decisão que a princípio parece fácil, já que você terá um corpo novinho em folha, habilidades aprimoradas, entre tantas outras vantagens, mas tudo isso tem um preço: você será considerado morto na Terra, renegando todos os seus bens e heranças, além de assinar um contrato de (pelo menos) 2 anos com as FCD, que pode ser ampliado para 10 míseros aninhos em caso de guerra com outras raças no espaço.
Anyone who survives their term gets the opportunity to colonize one of the planets they and their brethren bled to claim.Old Man's War has a remarkable concept in which the CDF only recruits the elderly to fight for them.
(hide spoiler)] I felt sick just now reading and typing that out...I don't know why I bothered.Old Man's War has tons of creativity jammed into it starting with their remarkable concept.
One additional plot point made the concept seem a bit pointless, but as it's an important part of the end of the story I won't spoil it.All in all Old Man's War was an interesting story that kept me intrigued from beginning to the end.
And I'm confident a lot of the aliens would love me back - in a purely culinary kind of way.Set in the far future, Earth has branched out to colonize as much of the known Universe as possible for the survival and betterment of the human race.
There is a cosmic land grab under way and every inch of interstellar real estate has to be contested and defended for any human colony to be viable.And that's where the Colonial Defence Force (CDF) comes in.
The main character is an old man, John Perry, yet he talked as if he was 30 years younger.
The novel's premise seemed to offer that the book's going to be about space-war, but it's all science talk in reality.
The book has a title of "Old Man's War", but all I've read was "Old Man's Life".
I also get that this is a space opera novel, but I've read quite a few other space operas that contained both drama and action.
It just didn't satisfy my wants of reading a space-war novel.Overall the book was not that bad.
My rating 4.8The book "Old Man's War" by John Scalzi I immediately liked when I started reading it.
As the writer flips the story, I simply walked into the world, strange aliens, planets, wars, and galaxies, where life and death are linked to angry wool.
I am thrilled with the story that the writer draws us like a magician with a magic stick; you just have to love characters that are sometimes just so crazy.
Throughout the book, we are led by the main character, John Perry, who is 75 years old and sign to the army.
2.5 starsPicked this book up at random and read the first paragraph which was interesting and soon found myself enjoying a military scifi even though I generally struggle with scifi books.The first part of the story, well basically ’s of the book, consists of the enlistment and training of a bunch of septuagenarians who have joined the cause to fight off planet against various alien species. In return they are made young again somehow, or so the rumor goes. I mean, why enlist old-timers otherwis
2.5 starsPicked this book up at random and read the first paragraph which was interesting and soon found myself enjoying a military scifi even though I generally struggle with scifi books.The first part of the story, well basically ¾’s of the book, consists of the enlistment and training of a bunch of septuagenarians who have joined the cause to fight off planet against various alien species.
John Scalzi has a writing style and voice that is easy to digest and enjoy and it made the book a fast read.
I also think our main character had a great sense of wit and sarcasm to him and at many moments of the book he whipped these out and made it fun!The overall story here is certainly intriguing and as you go through you learn a lot more about the new capabilities of the world and the technologies.
We see new aliens and also see lots of fighting in Space, which is done simply enough that I could follow and even enjoy these scenes at times.
Fantastic! I'm definitely reading this entire series. The Audible narrator is wonderful and I followed along in my paperback. If this is still on your TBR, I highly recommend that you read it. My first experience with John Scalzi was when I read Lock In back in 2014. It was a four-star read, so I'm really surprised (and annoyed) that I waited this long to read another one of his books. I've already reserved Head On (Lock In #2), which releases soon and I'm really looking forward to it!Thank you for the buddy read Carl!
