https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/365990.The_Crossing
A boy and his father set out to trap a wolf that is preying on their cattle.
The man who had trapped them in the past, who opened the plains for countless thousands of cattle to graze is now dead, and the wolves have begun to return to their old hunting grounds from their retreat in Mexico.
He collects his brother, Boyd, from a foster home and they set off for Mexico, ostensibly in search of the seven horses that constitute the family patrimony, though this mission is never so baldly stated.
Of the seven or so McCarthy novels I've read, The Crossing, Blood Meridian, The Road and All The Pretty Horses are my favorites.
Far more melancholy than its predecessor All the Pretty Horses, The Crossing is a beautiful if bleak western full of poetry and philosophical musings. The Billy character is wonderfully drawn amd in particular the first part of the book with the wolf was outstanding. McCarthy's sparse Hemmingway-esque style lends an austere and yet often humorous tone to the dialogs - particularly those both spoken and unspoken between Billy and Boyd. I appreciate the author's reluctance to dummy down the story and challenge the reader constantly throughout. Looking forward to completing the trilogy now with Cities of the Plain.
The Border Trilogy – Part 2 of 3It is in the early 1940’s when Billy Pelham sets out on his first of three trips from his home to Mexico.
He is sixteen and his first trip is to reunite a female wolf about to pup with others of her kind in the mountains where she came from.When he returns home to New Mexico from his journey, his life as he knew it has changed.
By this time, Billy is 20 years old and has more life experience than he had on his first two journeys south.Along the way of his third journey, he meets with several other travelers as well as people who give him food and shelter when needed.
That's The Crossing.Cormac McCarthy's "The Border" trilogy is where you'll find dusty plains, hard living, and a recent past populated by a people still living in an even more distant past.
The hero's journey plays out upon the border between New Mexico and old Mexico, where the line dividing life and death is measured in handfuls of blood.McCarthy's books are not where you shop for your good times and happy endings.
Yesterday morning Billy Parham and I were hunting a she-wolf. Billy was following her tracks in the snow across the pages of the book. I was following with my eyes and my mind. Oh, that wolf, that smart she-wolf nearly broke my heart.There is so much more to this novel than meets the eye. I shall be thinking about it for a while yet.McCarthy renders even the ordinary extraordinary. One moment please while I remove my heart from my mouth...
Beautiful, beautiful book. I am such a fan of Cormac McCarthy. Poetic realism, I would describe his style.
There are moments when the book lags but whenever this happens you can be assured that within a couple of pages McCarthy will come out with a line or paragraph that is so amazing you'll have to reread several times, possibly out loud, before you can continue with the story.
The book never gives you all the information about some aspects of the story which is sometimes frustrating but works within the confines of the world that McCarthy is created, he's never one to end everything neatly and perfectly, the subplot of Billy's brother and the girl leaves you wishing for more though is all the more powerful for the fact that it's heard in rumours and secondhand recollections.
This book is a journey that you never want to end.
La maggior parte degli scrittori, io per primo, possono solo trascorrere la vita sognando di avere anche solo la metà della bravura di McCarthy, ma la verità è che non l'avranno mai.
Prima di accorgersi che sono 370 pagine di poesia, non una di meno.Le quattro parti in cui è suddiviso il libro sono una più bella dell'altra.
Non ha senso, sono talmente belli che stonano con le mie parole.Ho ancora qualcosa da dire.
La felicità non è niente.Un'altra cosa che ho capito, e spero di averla capita nel modo giusto, è che il mondo è una storia.
È lunga, ma non può essere altrimenti:Sono venuto come un eretico che fugge da una vita precedente.
It continues in this gripping fashion when the boy takes pity on the wolf he and his father have caught in a trap and decides to take the injured animal back to the mountains of Mexico.
The relationship he creates between the boy and the wolf is a marvel in itself.
In Mexico he sees his father's horse and knows something bad has happened at home.
People often speak of the violence in his books but what always gets to me is the deep beautiful bonds he establishes between his characters and often between a character and an animal.
Another thing I love about his books is the philosophy.
This was very depressing, and that's just how life goes which is the point I think McCarthy was trying to make.
Alice Munro said in an interview that our lives begin as straightforward stories with the typical arc of fiction, but that as we go on living they become strange, experimental narratives, convoluted and difficult to interpret.
It seems to me that's what's happening in this second volume of the Border Trilogy.
Volume One was pretty straightforward, taut and clear in its construction.
It told a story of a young man's searing introduction to the adult world.
Volume Two does the same--with a different young man--yet its structure defies the conventions of fiction.
Umas em que se fala de Deus e de Fé, e que facilmente impacientam uma ímpia infiel como eu… Mas o resto deixou-me extasiada.
Cormac consegue expor o Homem no seu estado mais Puro; um Ser absolutamente livre e corajoso e determinado, que se entrega e sacrifica aos outros não por Dever mas por Querer.
Não será por acaso, talvez, que a personagem principal tem apenas 16 anos; já é fisicamente um homem mas a alma ainda é de menino…Estou viciada em Cormac McCarthy.
Como o ser humano apenas se vicia no que dá prazer, tirem as vossas conclusões… eu não digo mais nada.
It's Cormack!From his home in New Mexico, young Billy Parham decides to take a wild wolf that has been trapped and set it free in its faraway home in Mexico.
Billy succeeds in setting the lobo free, but not like he intended.
In the gritty style that McCarthy is so famous for, he takes Billy and his brother Boyd on a journey, where just as in real life, there are hurtles, bridges and rivers to cross, forks in the road where a decision to go left or right could be the difference in the outcome of your entire life.
Chupacabras, Duendes y Putas, Oh MiBajada a los Infiernos al Sur de la Frontera{revised 9/16/16, in honor of Mexican Independence Day}"Life is a memory, and then it is nothing." The Crossing, C.
The action gets started with teenage brothers setting out into the mountains of Mexico to retrieve the horses stolen from their small family ranch when their parents were murdered, while the brothers were away.
Pretty much everything thereafter I detested almost as thoroughly as I appreciated #1 in The Border Trilogy, All the Pretty Horses.Chupacabra MexicanaThe boys' purpose for journeying deep into the Mexican mountains quickly devolves into a succession of hazy, haphazard jaunts here and there.
But Billy Parham's journey has a a peculiarly mystical quality all its own.
But these weird confessions seem somehow necessary, since in between them, in the main narrative, this kid loses EVERYTHING that ties him to the world.
That's what is so weird about this.
It's utterly brutal, but it's got this really rich, contemplative spiritual dimension which is so often chocked out by the human cruelty in Mccarthy's work.
It's got a powerfully redemptive quality which I've never come across in his writing before, almost in spite of itself.
Se ci si pensa, gli strumenti a disposizione di uno scrittore, o aspirante tale, si possono essenzialmente schematizzare in una prosa fluente e una storia da raccontare; e, come complemento, dialoghi credibili e ambientazioni suggestive, attenzione ai particolari e precisa caratterizzazione dei personaggi.
Il grande scrittore, però, possiede un’arma in più, ricevuta in dono da madre natura o, se si preferisce, per intercessione divina, ovvero una sorta di “fiammella” capace di imprimere animazione, unicità, splendore, vigore, eco, potenza di impatto ed eternità alle cose che scrive.
Anche i dialoghi sono essenziali, quasi laconici, ma intensi e struggenti come in nessun altro scrittore.
The second novel in McCarthy’s Border Trilogy is not a sequel to All the Pretty Horses, but rather a parallel coming-of-age story.
When a wolf suddenly begins killing his family’s cattle, Billy’s father sets him with the task of trapping the wolf.
A game of wits between boy and beast ensues, as the wolf repeatedly digs up the traps that have been set for her.
Instead, he sets out to cross the border into Mexico, returning the wolf to the country whence she came.
Readers returning to the trilogy seeking another romantic tale like All the Pretty Horses should be forewarned, however: this installment is much bleaker than its predecessor.
I realize that some (most?) people have a particular favorite part of McCarthy’s Border Trilogy, but I’d be hard-pressed to choose one after reading The Crossing.
However, the change was noticeable and I was relieved that the second book wasn’t just a rehashing of the first in theme and tone.
If All the Pretty Horses is a treatise on Love and Beauty (which I would argue it is), then The Crossing is an opus that dissects the mortal crises over Spirituality and Death.
Some novels are never over, this is one. It's always going to be exquisite and cruel in the reading, it will be a book to read and love, to read and be devastated by: 'Some vast tragedy not of fact or incident or event but of the way the world was'.
The main character meets a strange, but key, individual that suddenly dominates the narrative, and relates in profound language a bizarre experience about the meaning of life.
I don't normally re-read long segments of writing, but McCarthy absolutely warped my mind back around itself, very much like a gordian knot, yet somehow my brain worked it out, reasoning--instead of luck--being the better part of challenging the unknown.Cormac McCarthy has done it again in this second installment of the Border Trilogy!
I envision McCarthy weighing, balancing, and judging every word to ensure it reads well, works best with other words, and even looks good on the page.
A few times the story felt like it completey wrapped up, but then it kind of kept going, awkwardly finding a new direction.
The book really reads like three separate stories about a single character, wrapped up with some overarching themes and ideas.
This format felt a little odd when reading it, but I don't necessarily want to hold this structure against the book - it's not important that a novel fits a standard format or structure.
I think that McCarthy likes to play with these kinds of reflections about the nature of life.Despite the meandering, I never felt bored with this book.
I can't remember the last time I enjoyed a book less. I was all the more disappointed because I have liked everything else I've read of McCarthy. This felt like paint by numbers McCarthy to me: male characters laconic to the point of absurdity, but stopping often to listen to portentous theological soliloquies. Wandering through desert landscape, and experiencing sudden senseless violence. It is devoid of feeling until the final page--practically an autistic novel--and ultimately offers nothing to counter, redeem, or justify, its unrelenting bleakness.
E non chiacchierare del più e del meno, ma delle cose grandi, delle cose che non si possono definire né imbrigliare compiutamente, perché infinitamente meno tangibili del fuoco, della caccia e degli alberi: il Male, il Mondo, la Morte, Dio. O il Messico pullula di filosofi o McCarthy è impegnato nella versione western del Decameron.
Quel dettaglio che ricrea un mondo completo, puramente realistico, una finzione più vera del vero, in cui il lettore si immerge, si perde, non capisce.
Nel mondo di McCarthy, non c’è una forma di vita che valga meno delle altre.
It's one thing to hear about this and to know that cracking a Cormac McCarthy book is not going to be an exercise in gumdrops and rainbows, it's a whole other thing to actually open a book and expose yourself to over 400 pages of brutally hard-living and events that shake your faith in humankind even as you marvel at the tenacity of the human spirit.The second in McCarthy's Border Trilogy, you know within the opening pages that this is a far different beast of a book than the award-winning All The Pretty Horses.
Reading The Crossing, I lost a little piece of my sanity as I traversed Mexican plains with Billy, the ubiquitous dust drying my mouth.
I gazed into the eyes of a starving, pregnant wolf.
I caressed tired horses and drank the mescal.The storytellers who captivated Billy enthralled me.
I saw the flickers in their eyes and the slight motions of their hands as they created a world in my mind.
As my Oklahoman friend Sam would say: The Crossing will give you a "case of the plains," but you won't regret it.
Like McCarthy’s other work, this second entry in the Border Trilogy (a series of novels set around the border of the U.S. and Mexico near the middle of the 20th century) features lyrical prose, vivid descriptions of landscapes and nature, memorable dialogue and scenes that are hard to forget.
While these are somewhat different books (Horses more romantic and unified; Crossing more philosophical and fragmented), I did think Horses was the better novel.
One special note: a significant portion of this book’s dialogue – far more than in Horses – is in Spanish.
It makes me a little sad to rate this so low, because there are certain parts of the book that I loved ...
While part 1 was really excellent, especially the ending, I mostly found this book a chore to read.
A lot of philosophizing, which fortunately was often not so esoteric and could be personalized.
But just not the kind of book that I wanted to read ...
I'll probably read the 3rd book in the trilogy at some point.edit: I'm adding a star because there are certain parts of this book that still stay with me and actually make me want to read this again.
In fact, if we accept the old man’s joke as true, I’d half suspect McCarthy of being Texan himself if I didn’t know better.For me all of McCarthy’s elsewhere critically acclaimed descriptions of the early twentieth century American Southwest and Mexican landscapes, his overwrought and oddly non sequitur figurative language and the frequently unfathomable actions of his characters add up to nothing more than a wind that blows mighty hot and bears no solid narrative integrity my way.If that’s not bad enough, The Crossing’s length as a novel stretches out at two different places for several clunky, lengthy philosophical interludes (I don’t know what else you’d call them) which amount to that thing other than wind that the hungry wolf from the joke inadvertently purged from the Texans he preyed upon.Let’s take the convoluted metaphors and twisted similes first.
Much of the dialogue in this one is Spanish, but never fear, you'll context it just fine.McCarthy is a master of the slow paced, philosophical novel which crosses boundaries of mankind's struggles both real and imagined.
It is less approachable probably in terms of pure reading enjoyment, but it wades into more McCarthy like language.
He is always looking for something as he journeys back and forth- crossing the border several times for various reasons.
Don't go to this novel as a lead in to McCarthy- start with The Road and then work through some of the southern novels first (in my opinon)- he's an acquired taste to some, and while reading his works take more work they are really, really worth it.
My impression of this one mirrors many of the reviews I've read:The first section with Billy and the wolf is stunning and surely among the best descriptions of man's relationship with the wild in literature.The middle section meanders.
I felt I needed a map to keep track of the brothers' wanderings in and out of Mexico, and many of their encounters with minor characters were unsatisfying.
It was difficult to believe Boyd's connection with "the girl" when she wasn't even given a name.
The final third picks up and the end...well, the injured horse, the tarp full of bones, the broken cowboy weeping in the road, the beauty and the brutality...this is what McCarthy is famous for.
