https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/259538.Outbreak
2.5 - I'm feeling generous with the round up to three.First - if you are looking for an outbreak book involving the risk of an end of humanity while a group of intrepid heroes fight for survival - this is not that book!
There is very little actual outbreak, it is only a side plot to the main story.
I feel like he really has a cool story and fascinating ideas, but that he is not a very good writer.
Just switch the plot around and you have 3 out of every 4 Cook novels.I will keep reading Cook because I want to see if it gets better (and I am running out of Crichton novels).
I was a big Cook fan at one time. Outbreak presents a very scary and distressing topic. The romance was overdone though.
They do the same fucking thing for each case.The second half of the book was a bit better, although it was your standard generic action movie style story of rushing to get to the evidence/whatever before the bad guys get to the protagonist.
It also requires a bit of suspension of belief when you start delving into motives and whatnot, but as long as you're not looking for any real mental stimulation...Unfortunately for this book, the somewhat interesting descriptions of how to handle a virus outbreak is interrupted by cheesy romance drama.
For the first half of the book, each and every time a new outbreak happened, the book would spend a paragraph explaining how she got someone to take care of her dog.
*reader gives book a long, evil side-eye*So, uh, let me get this straight..Very tiny, super attractive doctor stumbles upon Big Evil Conspiracy.
Very tiny, super attractive doctor gets hit on by every man around her that's not trying to kill her.
Very tiny, super attractive doctor somehow manages to be almost completely inept on a personal level, makes horrible choices, and still manages to save the day.Very tiny, super attractive doctor completely forgives guy who was a complete buttpucker to her for the majority of the novel at the end, and we're to assume a happily every after.Oh, also, there's mention of Ebola now and then.
To its credit, the novel lives up to its reputation as a fast-paced medical thriller.
A new doctor from the CDC is assigned to find out why the early outbreaks are occurring and help contain them, and she gets drawn into a political (mystery/thriller) plot.
Although our female heroine is a very competent young doctor, I found it annoying that the author had to mention how beautiful and sexy all the men in the book found her on virtually every page.
Normally, I don't mind a good romantic subplot in a fast-paced thriller, but this one annoyed me and detracted from the overall flow of the novel!
This was a well written and gripping book, but I don't see it as a genre that I could really get into.
Dr. Marissa Blumenthal, the main character, is a very likable and realistic character, and by the end of the book the reader feels as if s/he is personally acquainted with her.
Overall, I thought this was a good book, but I don't know if this is really my type of genre.
For those of you who like mystery, this book fits the bill, regardless of its medical theme.
For people who are not particular fans of the genre, however, they may not like this book.
Since I've read most of Robin Cook's books, and rate them all a 3, one would wonder why I keep buying them, right?I consider this an "Airplane book," that is, a good read when you're sitting in an uncomfortable seat and can't move your arms much, and need something to distract you from the world around you.
Something that holds your attention, and doesn't require a great deal of thinking or examining of your path in life.I rate books a 5 when they are life-changing, a 3 when they are just a good read.
Robin Cook writes great medical thrillers. He's one of the best. I go to Grisham for legal thrillers. I'm looking for better writers who do as well or better than these two.
I found Outbreak a little hard to get into at first, but it slowly progressed into a very intriguing medical thriller.
The main female character was supposed to be this smart, educated, independent women, yet she kept going out on dates with men she didn't even like romantically and kept calling them when she was out of town, and the men all but patted her on the head and called her "good little kitty" (they didn't really call her that, but I felt like they were treating her like a pet).All in all though, I did enjoy the book, and it would make for a good movie!
I've read a lot of Robin Cook.
On the other, I can predict the outcome, not to mention the progress of the story, within the first few pages, so there's no real mystery there for me.A few books ago, I don't remember which, I realized that Cook uses his fiction to drive his political agenda.
Nothing wrong with that, and it made the stories a bit more interesting for me.
I don't remember when I read it - was just looking for something I recognized to get this genre in my recommendations listings.
Yes, the Ebola virus is used as a weapon.
The similarity ends there.A young CDC doctor is sent to an outbreak of what turns out to be Ebola virus in L.A. Then similar outbreaks occur in St. Louis, Phoenix, Philadelphia, and New York.
She becomes convinced that someone is using the virus as a weapon.
To find out who, she must deal with bureaucracy, a sexually harrassing boss, and murderers hunting her down, to say nothing of the virus itself.This was a good book, and I enjoyed it quite a bit.
For a scientific-based book, it still reads well even twenty-one years after it was written.
Robin Hook does a nice job of incoprating fairly solid medical event into a good story.
Meh.
I love Robin Cook's books. He is credited with being the creator of the modern "medical horror." I love all his books and I very much enjoyed reading OUTBREAK. This book is not suitable to readers under the age of eighteen as the situations are adult in nature and eerily plausible. After reading RobinCook you will not want to ever have to visit any medical center anytime soon. I highly recageommend this book to readers
I always had an interest in Medical thrillers and Outbreak is always a pleasure to read.
The book is fast pacing Medical and Action thriller and is a definite page turner.
The way how Robin Cook keeps Ralph low key till the end adds up to the suspense.
I was kind of predicting Ralph to be a head of the criminal ring but he turned out to be just one of the stakeholders and not the head.
In the end, I was not able to figure out who headed the entire thing.
Albeit, the book has a good happy ending and I loved it.
Outbreak is a thrilling and a gripping read. Author has done a brilliant job in bringing an esoteric field like medicine and biology into a thriller/crime genre. The writing is lucid. The story started of brilliantly and carried the suspense and thrill till the end. However, i expected the story to be a more like medical thriller ( search for a cure and fight against a disease) rather than a crime thriller it turned out to be . Nevertheless, it was a good and a quick read.
Inept only begins to describe all aspects of this book, since the author didn't take the time to properly write the book, I won't bother to write a proper review. If it was lack of talent that produced this talonless ogre called "Outbreak", I apologize and recommend a new vocation for Robin Cook.
Amazing story, once again Robin Cook is taking readers on a thrill ride and one that is very close to non-fiction, With the way the government plays with germs who knows when the next outbreak may occur. Thanks to the author for always blending fact and fiction in a thoroughly fascinating way.
It was alright...it had a weak end though...
Predictable with average writing. Hopefully his novels improve as I go along.
While I abhor the last book I read, the maestro of medical thrillers, delivered it again! The lead character Dr. Marissa Blumenthal was a cute little epidemiologist who struggled throughout the story so that she could find out the actual reason behind Ebola outbreaks. Her dedication for her job was beautifully written. Moreover, the political conspiracies, thrilling chases and tension filled romantic moments were adequately portrayed. Ending was a little bit predictable but overall it left me more than satisfied 😌
I am founding this book very satisfying. What can I say? I am a sucker from crime thrillers involving the spread of deadly diseases. I remember buddy-reading "Outbreak" with my sister when we were younger. We are young now (I am only 24 years old!) but then we were much younger. Due to my age, I hadn't read many books that belonged in the crime genre, so this one must've been one of my firsts. And I loved it. And now that I read it again, I loved it once more. So yeah. It's 4 star reading for me.
There were scenes where our MC spends too much time in contaminated hospitals doing the same thing over and over again, and we were told step by step why she was doing and how she was doing it.Example: Marissa had to travel from hospital to hospital whenever an outbreak got out.
No one seemed to have noticed this or taken note except for our MC who also happened to have been new at her job.Despite all the flaws in the novel, I still enjoyed it.
It is virus from this outbreak that will figure heavily into this story.Marissa is dating Ralph,a filthy rich doctor who lives in a mansion and who is quite conservative as well as over 20 years older than her as well as Tad, who works in the special containment section where Ebola and other dangerous viruses are kept.
As Marissa gathers clues, she is shocked to find that all of the cases are from the same 1976 line from the outbreak in Africa 11 years earlier and that the CDC is the ONLY source in the USA for samples of it.
Dr. Marissa Blumenthal of the Atlanta Centers of Disease Control investigates and soon uncovers the medical world's deadliest secret.The super scary thing about this novel is that it was published in 1988 and it talks about an outbreak of Ebola in the United States.
Surprising because I've been lost before with other authors in the assumption that everyone reading the work will understand it and reassuring because it makes me hopeful and looking forward to reading other novels by Robin Cook.I love the cross between viral outbreak with mass pandemic and murder mystery.
A GOOD beach book.
I was PAINFULLY aware, as I read, that Marissa was a female protagonist written by a man.
This is a man whose only virtue, besides finding it in his heart LATE in the book to listen to his female colleague and having the basic human decency upon finding she is correct to keep her from being shot, seems to be the fact that he is more attractive than one of the men Marissa is initially dating (who turns out to be implicated in the central conspiracy).
Erst dachte ich mir, es klingt ziemlich ähnlich wie "Hot Zone", ein Buch über Ebola aus den 1990er Jahren, im Laufe der ersten 50 Seiten hat es sich schon ganz anders entwickelt.
Hier handelt es sich um eine (hoffentlich) fiktive Geschichten.Marissa mag ich auf Anhieb, es macht Spaß, mit ihr zu den Ebolaausbrüchen zu reisen.
Im Seuchenkontrollzentrum macht sich Marissa nicht nur Freunde - besonders der Vorgesetzte scheint es dann auf sie abgesehen zu haben.
Ab einem gewissen Zeitpunkt stellt man sich die Frage: Wem kann man noch trauen?Ein schöner Medicalthriller mit politischen Verwicklungen, der auch heute noch nichts an Aktualität eingebüßt hat (bis auf fehlende Handies, Smartphones,...)
Nowhere near as good as "The Hot Zone." I had fun with the general reason why I picked this up (the whole medical thriller stuff) but several aspects of this book really bothered, mainly with the character building.
The boss is not only a creep, but a jerk to Marissa throughout the whole book.
It was irritating how the narrator would have to stop for a moment to either explain how certain characters obviously felt (as if I couldn't pick it up) or remind me that Marissa thought Ralph wasn't attractive (because I forgot she felt that way).
Guess I'll see how much I can manage the next Cook book before I decide whether to keep reading his stuff.
Outbreak was the first book I've read from Robin Cook, and is also the first in his Marisa Blumenthal series.
Marisa knows her stuff, she is smart and won't stop until she finds what she's looking for.
She was a great main character, so I can't wait to read more in this series.
Robin Cook definitely knows his stuff - there is a lot of technical verbiage that can be hard to follow sometimes, but the suspense and action is non-stop.
A great read, very well written, and I'm looking forward to more of Robin Cook's books.
