https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/207227.Ambiguous_Adventure
Per imparare l’arte di vincere senza avere ragione, per imparare dai francesi come si può sconfiggerli.Il film è del 1979, s’intitola “Bako, l’autre rive”, la regia è di Jacques Champreux.A Parigi, Samba Diallo faticherà a essere l’africano nero musulmano che può esprimersi in francese, sarà diviso tra le due culture, che gli sembrano inconciliabili.
عندما تبلغ الصفحة 190 منها وهي الصفحة الأخيرة تعيد تقليب الرواية لتتأكد هل انتهت فعلا!
تعطي هذه الرواية الانطباع أن حاديمو كان أسرع في كتابتها للتخلص منها ومن أسئلتها الحارقة للتفرغ للبحث والدراسة.
ورغم أن النص بالفرنسية ووأحداثه تدور في بادية السينغال وفي جزء منها في فرنسا فإن القارئ المغربي هو الأقرب إلى الفضاء الوجداني والثقافي للرواية: المسيد، الفقيه، أصوات الطلبة تتعالى بالمنافسة في القراءة، صوت سوط الفقيه يجول فوق رؤوسهم، شيخ القبيلة، جدلية الحداثة (المدرسة الفرنسية) والتقليد (الكتاب القرآني)، الاغتراب أو العودة، الأرض أو البحر، أسئلة حارقة ومؤلمة كتبتها كان بنفس صوفي روض به اللغة الفرنسية وأظنه بذلك أعجز الفرنسيين ورفع سقف التعبير عاليا أمامهم وبلغتهمرواية ليست للقراءة، رواية للقراءة وإعادة القراءة
رواية أعتقد وأتمنى أن الترجمة هي سبب تقييمي لها.فيها معاني كثيرة وفلسفة عطاء وأخذ الرب عز وجل، وعلاقة المستعمر بالمستعمر.كانت الحوارات أشبه إلى متون الكتب العلمية منها إلى كلام بشر،فقط بأواخر الرواية وجدت انفعالات بالحوار.الاحداث غير مشوقة بالقدر الكافي، أشبه إلى الحياة العاديةثم القفزات في الحدث كانت حادةأضيف الكثير من الحوارات فيها نقاش جميل عن الرب ونظرات عن الحياة وكان منها أجزاء قيمة كثيرة.
كانت صراع نفسي وجدال حول الهوية -بفلسفة عميقة جدا- أكثر منها رواية... استمتعت باستشرافات الرؤى لكن ليس بالقصة
لا أدري إنتهيت منها دون أن أفهم نهايتها تماما ..
غامضة حقا ..
الشخصيات فيها متداخلة جدا وأحيانا لا تعرف من المتكلم !
.. أعجبتني بعض الأجزاء منها و أعجبني الشيخ جدا ...
قلة جدا من هم بذاك الذهد ...
مقتطفات أعجبتني : _ هل يمكن أن تقوم حضارة و تنهض في غيبة الإنسان أو في حالة عدم توازنه ؟_إن الحضارة معمار من أجوبة ، فروعتها ، ككل مسكن ، تقاس بالنسبة إى مدى ما توفره من الراحة التي يجدها الإنسان فيها .
حوارات، نقاشات فلسفية مطولة، أقصت الحدوتة من الرواية، حتى بدت لا تُذكر، والفصول المعنونة أضحت كالمقالات التي لا ضير من قراءتها منفصلة .بداية الرواية، استعرض المؤلف الشخصية الأساسية (سمبا-جالو) وسط بيئتها (مدارس الكُتاب) من خلال مشاهد ثرية، ولكنه مع تدفق الفصول بدت الصورة تبهت شيئًا فشيئًا، فما بقي سوى حوارٌ يليه حوار. وتهت في مواضع عدة، التبست علي هوية المتحدث.القيمة المرجوه من العمل سامية دون شك، ولكن شخصيًا، لم ترُق لي طريقة العرض.
This book is about so much more than "a Senegalese man's experience in France." It is a philosophical exploration of the differences between Europe and Africa, White and Black, atheist and Muslim, materialism and mysticism.
The narrator grows up feeling connected with the world, sensing the underlying unity of the spiritual and physical realms.
His experience with the West exposes him to a new way of thought, one that is secure in its own superiority and values things only for their practical utility.
The narrator brings his spiritual strength and philosophical understanding to bear on the challenge of integrating these two worldviews, to little success.
To me, this is profound, and I was reminded of Du Bois as I read that passage--"one ever feels his twoness..." It certainly seems that Samba Diallo's conflict is the novel is about "two souls, two thoughts, two unreconciled strivings; two warring ideals in one dark body." This is a familiar theme among colonized people, and I liked reading a non-American perspective.I did not like the ending, but i wont divulge it.
Alas, I do not read French, so I will continue to read Senegalese writers' works in English.
African (victim) perspective on colonialism.
The protagonist struggles to preserve his dying native African heritage, in the face of an allegedly soulless French culturo-economic milieu, which he finds disenchanting, but can't escape.
I can buy into that premise.The book states contrary to what "people have wanted us to believe", Germans are not more racist by nature than any other European settlers.In the epiloque a post-life experience is depicted, resembling, actually, the episode in Wilder's our "Our Town" play, which imagined dead people as continuing to experience life, but on a different plane.
The dead have something to say to us."
It is the perfect encapsulation of the West African Muslim way of life. I still have not read another book that captures the differential impact of quranic education in a West African environment and Western education in Europe on a pupil who has been shaped by both. I definitely relate to this book and it remains one of my favorites. This is my third time reading it and I get something new out of it every time.
بالرغم من لغة المترجم الرائعة والحاضرة في العمل، إلا أن الاطار العام والجانب الفلسفي الطاغي عليه لم يرق لي كثيرا وشعرت بالملل والضياع بكثير من الفصول. أعجبتني النهاية التي كسرت جزءاً من رتابة العمل
تتناول الرواية الصراعات التي يعيشها المسلم الإفريقي عند احتكاكه بالثقافة الغربية، مواجهة بين تعاليم الإسلام وبين الغرب المنفتح...
The cover was confusing, as I kept thinking I was already opening the book when I wasn't. When I figured it out (finally!) I was real edified by the contents. It's very current, you know. I hate myself.
I had some qualms with the translation, but the story is beautiful and sad. The book gives you an insight to the spirituality of Islam in Senegal, and the effects of colonialism on one community and boy.
A story of the colonized versus the colonizers--West vs. East--Culture shock as seen through the eyes of Samba Diallo, an African who studies in Paris and loses parts of his identity in a mechanized and individualistic society. Good stuff.
This is a must-read! Simple, in the way Coehlo's "Alchemist" is simple, yet deeply philosophical. It was assigned reading for my undergrad Theology class and promoted some of the best discussions (in and outside of class.)
That was the first time I have truly read my own culture within a western genre:)
The text sets up and explores a (false) dichotomy between a spiritual (Sufism in Senegal) native culture and a secular, alienated, modern West.
Raised in a particular Sufi tradition that venerates closeness to Death and living one’s life constantly seeking the Infinite, the main protagonist journeys to France and finds an alienating society where people have turned away from the Infinite in favor of material progress.
The social order that allows for the ruling class of the protagonists society to live their life in communion with the Infinite is likely one that does not reward a large group of people either spiritually or materially.
But there's a fascinating character in the touching figure of the Master (his teacher) and the Grande Royale, and there's great episodes at the beginning, and the rest of the book at least serves to continue the deep Life - God - Identity conversations, and see if we can pinpoint where the colonizers switched off (culturally, intellectually) from the decent virtuous life that Africans had followed up to that point (answer: the nature of work in capitalism).An important read, eloquent and to the point.
The language is lyrical and philosophical, and there isn't a lot of literal "action" to convey.
This made it tougher for me to read, but it also helped me focus more on the unique mindset of the African characters.
This isn't a judgment on my part, just an observation as I've read several things about that recently.
The main character's struggle with his faith also has some familiarity to it.
As part of my effort to read non-english fiction, this was a success b/c it presented a perspective that was local and unknown to me but also somewhat universal.
The culture of the Diallobes being very strict and religious, Samba Diallo found himself struggling to find a balance between his values as a Diallobe and the European values he learned at school.
This book follow his journey as he tries to form his own values.
The truth is that I didn't really like this book because I had the feeling that author prioritized the aesthetic rather than the content.
Moreover, some of the monologues were too long and sometimes hard to follow.
It seems like the author didn't answer any of the questions he raised in the book, and the only interpretation of it is too simplistic in my opinion.
This parable-like novel of a young man trying to make sense of his nation's colonization is pretty heady stuff.
Samba Diallo grows up torn between two cultures, that of his native land and that of its European colonizer.
The countries are fictitious but the struggle isn't.
Although this novel was written in 1962, the battle continues today, as cultural battles (infused, of course, with religion) flare into major conflicts.
The conflict here is often seen as the confrontation of nature with a materialistic aggressor--over-simplified, perhaps, but then again, perhaps not.
This was a bit too deep for a quick read, but it did make me think.
Ce livre illustre la confrontation de deux pensées, d’une part occidentale et d’autre part ouest-africaine, sur fond de colonialisme. Samba Diallo, principal personnage du livre, en fait directement les frais. Partagé entre son éducation traditionnelle et l’école « étrangère », noyé dans une ambiguïté insoluble, il ne sait plus ce à quoi il croit et à quoi il doit croire.
Read for class. Interesting and *ambiguous* book. The violence for the sake of disciplining the disciples boiled my blooooooooood.
It was a good introduction into the heart of the Senegalese mindset and French colonialism.
nothing personal i just don't like the novels of ideas that's it
An interesting take on one young man's experience with religion, as filtered through colonialism and the contest between Christian and Islamic traditions as different parts of the world collide.
"I have learned that in the country of the white man, the revolt against poverty and misery is not distinguished from the revolt against God. They say that the movement is spreading, and that soon, in the world, that same great cry against poverty will drown out the voice of the muezzins.
She says she "detests" the foreign school but thinks it is where they should send their children(41).
The pastor he is conversing with does not believe he will go this route (100).-Samba Diallo while at dinner with Gabonese discusses the difference he feels while living in the West.
Understanding the narrow focus of my studies, I find the philosophical tension in Cheikh Hamidou Kane’s novel, Ambiguous Adventure intriguing.
Industry was blind, although, finally, it was still possible to domicile all the good it produced… But already this phase is past… After the death of God, what they are now announcing is the death of man” (91).In the end, the more Samba learns, the more he realizes life is ambiguous.
Much like Samba, my philosophical studies carried an immensely Western influence.
If you are interested in non-Western views on life, check out Ambiguous Adventure.
The day I went to take leave of her she said to me again, ‘Go find out, among them, how one can conquer without being in the right.’ ” So the boy is enrolled in the foreign school and eventually leaves for France to take a degree in philosophy but before he’s completed his studies his father recalls him having decided he was wrong to let him go.
Despite having tried to be a good Muslim he returns home a changed man where he has to face his old teacher or at least his proxy, “the fool”, a man not unlike the boy (well, a young man by now) who had also travelled to the West but one who has seen the error of his ways and become something of a zealot.
