https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1208468.Burglar_Bill

This is far from reality and is actually painting an unwholesome picture of society, which also sends out the wrong message to children that you can steal things from people as long as you return it without them knowing and promise you’ll never do it again!If I had to recommend ‘Burglar Bill’ I would suggest its use in the EYFS, purely as a book to read to the class and facilitate a discussion about stranger danger.
I loved having this book read to me as a child, and liked the illustrations. Bill is a burglar! Everything in his house has been stolen. One day he finds a baby whilst out stealing, he plays with the baby all day and takes it home. Then someone decides to steal from Bill, it is burglar Betty who happens to be the babies mother! Together they decide to live a honest life and promise never to steal again. This is a wonderful book, really fun and engaging. It would be a great read for EYFS/KS1.
I simply love this book which is about a burglar named Bill whos life is surrounded by stolen items from the tea he drinks to the bed he sleeps on! But two major life changing events happen which makes him change his ways! One is when he steals a baby and the other when he is burgled by the baby's mother burglar Betty. Together they decide that enough is enough and begin to lead a honest life.... A good read together book for children in EYFS and Key Stage 1.
Children can learn how to behave appropriately from reading this book.
I really enjoyed the frivolity of this book. Burglar Bill turns his life around through finding romance in the most unexpected way.
Funny book to read aloud to children; would be great to read in connection with the Naughty, Naughty Baddies :-)(Shouldn't be taken too seriously!)
(Oh, by the way, here come some spoilers - stop reading now if you want to read this book and be surprised by the plot twists!) That night, Burglar Bill is awoken to the sound of someone in his house saying 'That's a nice umbrella - I'll take that.' We know by now that this is of course what all burglars say when they are burgling a home, so Burglar Bill realises he's being burgled and goes downstairs and sees a woman with a striped top and a mask over her eyes.
If you haven't read it, I would recommend you take a look at it at some point.*Spoiler alert* it's an unlikely boy meets girl story, in which our hero Bill accidentally steals a baby, before meeting a lady friend when she breaks in to his house.
It would be interesting to look at the speech in the book, as the characters speak in a non-standard English way, that could be a point of interest for older children ("And these are his own little clothes as well what his Grandma knit him" etc).I have to give it 5 stars just for keeping me amused for a good while some 25 years after I first read it.
Title: Burglar BillAuthor(s): Janet and Allan AhlbergBurglar Bill is a fascinating story about a charismatic chap called Bill.
Furthermore, the authors have used some great moments of dialogue throughout the story which makes it even more enjoyable.I would recommend this book for children in year 3 and 4.
It can be used in literacy classes to help the children analyse a character’s behaviour in a story and how this can change through the course of a story.
We can also bring this story in PSHE classes to help the children understand how our own actions may affect other peoples’ feelings.
Very fun read, based on Bill a burglar who steals almost anything he can get his hands on.
One day Bill steals a baby and they have a fantastic time together until one day things change for Bill, he has an intruder in house who is about to steal from him...coincidently this burglar turns out to be the baby’s mother Betty.
Highly recommend this book for KS1 during story time, children will engage with it as it is very light hearted and has great pictures that go alongside the story.
I loved this as a kid and found it again recently. The story itself is gleefully subversive in depicting a life of crime and redemption without consequence. Taking it too seriously is probably not the point. The illustrations have a timeless charm, full of character and period detail, wonderfully rich and coloured in a style that's not that familiar these days.It's a lovely book and if you loved it as a kid then pick it up.
The story is not half bad and the art was alright but I feel that the story is also unacceptable for a young child to read this. The book shows that there are no real consequences to stealing. Not even an apology is needed in this! Horrible lesson possibility! Even though the burglar changes his way there were no discipline for him in any way. I would not let my young child read this.
Burglar Bill is a classic book from the Ahlbergs. Bill, a man who only has stolen things from his bed to his marmalade, is shocked to find he has stolen a baby! The book is excellently illustrated and very funny for younger children. Great stuff!
These are the sorts of books I would actively keep out of my (at the time of writing this, hypothetical) children's library because it is subtly teaching them a lesson that appears benign but isn't actually good for people that I know I grew up with and have been trying to unlearn since I was a child.A book about a Career Burglar who decides to become a better man out of his own self-discovery (and not because he met the right woman) would be a far more compelling children's book.[I find amusement in the fact that my issue isn't with the Willingly Be A Criminal Without Consequence, though that is a problem, but with the fact that it's teaching very typical media versions of relationships, which always bothers me.]
An absolute classic! I remember this as a child, with my parents doing the various voices. I have now done the same for my niece this Christmas! With rhymes, and a song like fluency, the story takes the reader through the streets trying to catch Burglar Bill and his cronies!
Having really liked the last few books of theirs that I read, I really disliked this one. One of the main characters leaves a baby in a box...and when said box disappears, carries on as normal. This isn't addressed as anything other than 'Oh well what a funny coincidence' in the story.
Burglar Bill accidentally burgles a baby, which leads to a whole chain of events that changes his life.
“That’s a nice book, I’ll have that!”
We join the story with the explanation that Burglar Bill sleeps all day and steals things all night.
The book finally see’s Burglar Bill become Bakery Bill, and the simple, short sentences used by the authors would be suitable for guided reading to Key Stage 1, whilst Key Stage 2 children would be able to read and enjoy Janet and Alan Ahlberg books independently.A perfect read along story, with lovely additional illustrations, this simple tale of a loveable rogue settling down is a pleasant read, with a good use of rhythm.
Bill begins to look after the baby until one night he hears a noise in his house, to discover he himself is being burgled by burglar Betty.
Burglar Bill discovers burglar Betty is the mother of the baby.
Burglar bill and burglar Betty get married and look after the baby.
Although this book has a rather adult theme, there is a strong message told throughout and helps teach children right from wrong and that it is never too late to do the right thing, as burglar bill did and the end of the story.
Having loved Cops and Robbers, Burglar Bill was a natural progression.
With delightful illustrations full of details that my son adored exploring, this story follows the life and villainous antics of Bill.
I remember my son actually gasping when Bill steals someone's toothbrush.
Oh dear, Bill really is an incurable kleptomaniac, that is until he inadvertently steals a baby.
Unlike Cops and Robber, this story is in prose.
Whilst it is a shame that they didn't employ the witty rhymes which made the other story so funny, prose allows for a more detailed telling of the story and it's all the better for it.
'Burglar Bill' is a story about a charming chap called Bill who lives a very normal life however he is a burglar!
This quaint tale follows Bill as he becomes a victim of burglary himself and the transformation he undergoes as he confronts his actions on other people.
This book would be great for children of all ages especially when teaching young children about the consequences of our own actions affecting other peoples' feelings.
Overall this story is funny and engaging.
A great read with a powerful moral undertone!
Burglar Bill is a great book to use for shared reading in Year 1.
From this the children can prepare mimes of parts of the story for other children to guess the part, ensuring that they are developing their memory of the book.
They can act out different parts of the book, choosing a beginning middle or end to show that they understand the order which the story develops in.
They can also make predictions about what happens next in the book.
There are many different activities that can be done to develop an understanding of the book as a class.
A great story to read aloud with Foundation classes.Bill, a burglar (as you might have guessed from the title!), steals everything he can lay his hands on, including one day, a baby!
Together they have a blast and then one day, the tables are turned and Bill himself is a vitim of an intruder in his home.
Enter burglar Betty, who incidentally turns out to be the baby's mother!
Bill and Betty fall in love and decide to turn their backs on their life of crime, return all the things that they have stolen and 'go straight'.This is a really light-hearted, belly laugh enducing book, which children will love, with great pictures to go alongside the words.
I read his book with my Year 2 class and they really enjoyed it.
A lonely burglar finds happiness and then redemption.
The writing has a comfortable pace but what makes the book come alive is the illustrations, which brings the story to life.
The idea of a burglar finding an abandoned baby, feeling responsible and then taking care of him is an amusing one.
He then marries the mother, a burglar too, thus providing the all important happy ending.
I felt the story could be used to start an interesting class discussion on right and wrong and whether our colourful burglars had done enough to make amends.
Bill is a burglar who steals many things.
After an encounter with another burglar, Bill sees the error of his ways.
This is a light hearted book which was fun to read.
The message I got from this book was do not do things to others that you would not like done to you.
This book could be used during carpet time to be read to the whole class where a discussion can be held after regarding the message and what the children themselves do not like.
A children's classic, originally published in 1977, but still on reading lists for kids (I came across it looking for books for my 8 year old on our Premiers Reading Challenge).
It's interesting to come at this book essentially unaware of it in 2009.
Burglar Bill is just going about his usual job, breaking into people's houses every night, stealing things.
It does seem that he only steals things that he would find useful, he doesn't seem to be in it for the money.
Bill's life changes for ever the day he finds a useful looking big brown box.
A 1001 CBYMRBYGU.Everything Burglar Bill has is stolen. His entire house is filled with stolen things. One day, while out stealing, Burglar Bill accidentally discovers a baby. He plays with the baby all day, and then takes the baby home with him. One day, someone decides to steal from Burglar Bill. It is Burglar Betty. The two burglars meet and discover that the baby Bill stole was Betty's baby. Because Betty frightened Bill so much while stealing from him, Bill reforms and decides to never steal again. He becomes a bread-man in a bakery and the two get married.
Burglar Bill By Janet and Allan Ahlberg At first, I thought he was a strange character to be introducing small children too.
There is lots of repetitive language that children will enjoy joining in with and some surprises too.
One night whilst burgling a house, burglar Bill spots a very nice box.
He steals the box and what he discovers inside changes his life.
Then one night it is burglar Bill that is burgled.
But who is this person and will burglar Bill change his ways?
This is an amusing little story that I enjoyed reading.
