https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/690146.The_Adventure_of_the_Christmas_Pudding

استمتعت ببعض الحبكات القصيرةرغم ان القصص الطويلة اجمل وأروع ولكن للتغيير وهو مطلوب
A collection of six short stories, five of then featuring Hercule Poirot and one with Miss Marple. The first story -The Adventure of the Christmas Pudding is Christie's tribute to the wonderful time she had during Christmas time at her brother in laws house. The last story Greenshaw's folly is the one Christie wrote to raise money for her local church. Compared to her other stories, the plots here are weaker but they still hold your attention. Average read
Η συλλογή είναι αρκετά ενδιαφέρουσα και γοητευτική, ωστόσο, οι πιο σημαντικές ιστορίες είναι 'Το μυστήριο της Ισπανικής κασέλας', η οποία θεωρείται από τις δυσκολότερες και πιο αγαπημένες υποθέσεις του Πουαρώ (σε αυτήν γνωρίζει τον συνταγματάρχη Ρης που, αργότερα, τον βοηθά στο 'Εγκλημα στο Νείλο') και 'Ο αποδιοπομπαίος' όπου η Κρίστι (και κατ'επέκταση ο Πουαρώ) χρησιμοποιεί τη τέχνη της ύπνωσης ως καινοτομικό στοιχείο για τη διαλεύκανση του εγκλήματος.
Οφείλω να ομολογήσω ότι, ενώ ως καλοκαιρινό ανάγνωσμα ταιριάζει 'γάντι', συγκριτικά με τις υπόλοιπες συλλογές ιστοριών της συγγραφέα, υπολείπεται σημαντικά.
Βαθμολογία: 3,8/5 ή 7,6/10.
A nice little collection of short stories, mostly starring Hercule Poirot and one about Miss Marple. The title story about the Christmas pudding was the best one with a clever idea and a number of possible murderers. A couple of the other stories were not so effective. I must admit I do not really enjoy short stories. I always feel they stop just when I want them to get going. These ones however were not bad!
#33, and the story, “The Adventure of the Christmas Pudding” (a.k.a. The Theft of the Royal Ruby) is not a story I would normally want to read in August.
“The Adventure of the Christmas Pudding” is really a novella, the first and longest in the collection.
Poirot solves the case and teaches the kids a lesson.“The Adventure of the Christmas Pudding” was the only one set during Christmas.
As with many Christmas stories, it feels nostalgic and sentimental, a mystery directed to a perhaps younger audience, for the first time in my experience with Christie.

"الكلاب التي تنبح لا تعضّ"
Esse foi meu primeiro contato com Agatha Christie. Não foi um livro surpreendente mas me deixou bem curioso pra ler os casos mais famosos da autora! É difícil avaliar livros de contos porque sempre tem uns que se sobressaem mais do que outros mas acho que nesse compilado todos seguem o mesmo nível. "O mistério da Arca Espanhola" foi meu favorito!Só me decepcionei um pouco porque achei que seriam contos de natal mas só o primeiro (que da titulo ao livro) tem essa temática.Ainda assim, estou ansioso pra ler mais Agatha Christie em 2016!
"This book of Christmas fare may be described as “The Chef’s Selection.” I am the Chef!”In the foreword by Agatha Christie, we are presented with two main courses, a selection of entrees, and a sorbet, all in the shape of short stories.
These shorter formats are not usually my favourite fare but these were easy to consume, even if some were tastier than others :O) * The Adventure of the Christmas Pudding (a.k.a The Theft of the Royal Ruby)* The Mystery of the Spanish Chest* The Under Dog* Four and Twenty Blackbirds* The Dream* Greenshaw’s FollyOh and if you get a copy, don’t forget to read that foreword.
In it, Christie describes the Christmases of her youth :O)
A short story collection featuring 6 stories incl The Adventure of the Christmas Pudding,The Mystery of the Spanish Chest, The Under Dog, Four and Twenty Blackbirds, The Dream and Greenshaw's Folly.  All the stories were good. But of all the stories, The Mystery of the Spanish Chest, The Under Dog ,The Dream and Greenshaw's Folly really stood out. The plot, the characters and the main mystery, all were truly excellent and unique. If you are a Poirot fan and if you enjoy short stories, you will surely enjoy this one.
These short stories were all exquisite - I couldn't choose a favourite one, for I loved them all. Poirot and Aunt Jane Marple never disappoint, nor does their creator, Agatha Christie. Each mystery was fabulous as they were intriguing! I recommend this to any fan of 'cozy crime', or anyone who's just looking for a great set of mysteries to read :)
I liked how this relationship helped him flush out the murderer.-The Mystery of the Spanish Chest: 4.5 stars.
I didn't figure out the murderer, but I enjoyed watching Poirot work in this story.-The Under Dog: 4 stars.
Poirot puts on quite the comedy act (behaving like the detectives he gently chides for not using their brains) in an effort to freak out a murderer.-Four and Twenty Blackbirds: 3 stars.
Figured this one out really easily because of the unusual eating choices at the restaurant.-The Dream: 3 stars.
A really short mystery that didn't really work for me.-Greenshaw's Folly: 3.5 stars.
"الكلب الذي ينبح لا يعض"مجموعة قصصية قصيرة ولكنها مسلية وخصوصًا في نهاية العامهذه أول مرة أتعرف فيها على شخصية الآنسة ماربل حيث ظهرت في القصة الأخيرة أما بقية القصص فكانت من بطولة "المحقق" بوارووكعادة أجاثا فإن القاتل لا يمكن توقعه
I read this book in my mother language. Almost all the stories are interesting, but I'd prefer that these 6 short stories would have been turned into 6 long and complete novels. Short stories don't please me so much; I always think they end abruptly, have little development and last very little.
Poarou (mada se mis Marpl usunjala kao uljez u zadnjoj prici :P).
Mada ove kolekcije imaju sve manje i manje prica: kod ove samo 6, sto nije ni lose posto ima vise mesta da nas uvuce u svaku.Po meni naj prica jeste prva po kojoj kolekcija i nosi ime.
Daleko od toga da je najbolja misterija ali ljubav i detalji kojej je mis Agata ubacila iz ljubavi prema starom dobro engleskom bozicu cini ovu pricu izuzetno zabavnom za citanje.
Plus budem nostalgican za nesto sto nisam ni doziveo.
Svaka cast.Sem toga sta reci sem da imamo fine price majstora svog zanata i ne trba ih zaobici.
The first story about the Christmas Pudding is great! If you wanted to make Mr. Poirot feel at home, what can be better than stirring up a murder mystery for him during his Christmas holiday? And all these old fashioned British Christmas customs are so endearing! However, the rest of the stories are still...very standard, not bad but nothing special. I even DNF-ed one of the stories. So, 3 stars only.
همیشه کتابای آگاتا کریستی رو دوست داشتم ولی اصلا از این یکی خوشم نیومدفقط دو داستان اول (صندوق اسپانیایی و نگون بخت) رو پسندیدم.........نسخه اصلی کتاب شامل داستان های کوتاه از خانم مارپل و پوآرو است ولی در این کتاب خبری خانم مارپل نیست ! و فقط داستان های پوآرو آورده شدهدر مقایسه با نسخه اصلی ، دو داستان در این کتاب ترجمه نشدهGreenshaw's Follyو The Adventure of the Christmas Puddingو به جای این دو داستان حذف شده ، داستان دیگری به نام زنگ دوم قرار داده شده
As much as I love audiobooks, I’ve never been a fan of dramatizations.
Audiobook from my public library, via Overdrive.
I read this for The 16 Tasks of the Festive Season, for Square 10, December 21st: Book themes for Pancha Ganapati: Read anything involving a need for forgiveness in the story line; a story about redemption –OR– Read a book whose cover has one of the 5 colors of the holiday: red, blue, green, orange, or yellow –OR– Read a book involving elephants.
This book has both red and green on the cover.
Ai, šis bija tik jauki! Ātri lasāmi un interesanti. Stāsti kā tādi nav mana mīļākā daiļliteratūras forma, bet ar kriminālstāstiem man problēmu nav, kā izrādās. Kārtējais pierādījums, ka labs rakstnieks pat 20 lappusēs var uzburt izteiksmīgāku ainu, nekā daži labi skribenti 3 sējumos.
A fun collection of crime mysteries solved by Hercule Poirot, with a bonus one solved by Miss Marple.
For lovers of Poirot and Marple however these little tales from later in their fictional 'careers' would certainly be on interest.1.
An eccentric old man dines at the same restaurant twice a week on the same days at the same time.
Being a Miss Marple tale the style is a little different to the others in this collection, and she, as always, simply happens to be in the right place at the right time to assist with interpreting the strange events that occur.
Another Christmas Mystery- involving a theft of a Royal Ruby. Quiet transparent as to the cuplrit but a good read.
I finally understand why people love Hercule Poirot novels so much.
There is something so cosy about curling up in a bed and listening to Hercule Poirot's adventures and in the future I will definitely listen some of Christie's mysteries in audio format.
My favourite case of the collection was definitely the first one, The Adventure of the Christmas Pudding.
Hercule Poirot spends the traditional English Christmas and the family decides to pay a prank and set a crime scene to Poirot.
So, as I said, cosy and perfect read for Christmas cravings.
The story does feel very nostalgic prior to things starting to get awry (the description of the Christmas feast made my mouth water), and thanks to the conclusion it's also one of the best ones.
The tiny tidbits about the social realities of the era aren't absent either, as is evident from Poirot's ponderings about the butler:"'This Parsons, then, he will have the characteristics of his class, he will object very strongly to the police, he will tell them as little as possible.
5 historias cortas de la magnífica Agatha Christie. Una delicia reecontrarse con Poirot (4 historias) y Miss Marple (1 historia).Entretenido, en la línea de esta autora.
Vários contos da magnífica Agatha Christie, com o fantástico Hercule Poirot e a miss Marple :) sempre bom de ler
acabo el 2015 con Agatha christie. Mi mejor descubrimiento del año. haber como comenzamos 2016. FELIZ AÑO a TODOS !!! HAPPY NEW YEAR! (  ³)❤
acabo el 2015 con Agatha christie. Mi mejor descubrimiento del año. haber como comenzamos 2016. FELIZ AÑO a TODOS !!! HAPPY NEW YEAR! ( ˘ ³˘)❤
3.5⭐Uma óptima leitura para esta época do ano, com um toque de suspense ideal. Super divertido de se ler. Os contos são curtos mas muito bem conseguidos. Aconselho e muito.
The author did an excellent job of putting complete mysteries into a short form. While one of them featured Miss Marple, most starred Poirot, and he was quite his devious self.
Merupakan koleksi cerita pendek yang sebagian besarnya merupakan kasus Hercule Poirot (ada 1 di paling akhir tentang Miss Marple).Saya suka sekali cerita "Yang Tak Diperhitungkan".
Terkadang saya merasa tak ada bedanya membaca kasus Poirot dengan kasus Holmes, padahal pasti berbeda.
Mungkin karena belum banyak membaca Agatha Christie.
Buku ini pun berupa kumpulan cerpen, seperti layaknya Sherlock Holmes yang kasusnya (hampir) tak pernah panjang.
Karena berupa kumpulan cerpen inilah, pembaca lebih mudah menemukan spot 'pemenggalan' ketika harus berhenti membaca sejenak atau beberapa jenak.Plot dan alur cerita buku ini mudah diikuti, dan tokohnya pun tidak banyak seperti pada kasus yang panjang.
