https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/112472.Robert_Kennedy_and_His_Times
Very detailed biography of RFK.
Schlesinger is sympathetic to Kennedy being an associate and friend but he doesn't hide the blemishes on Bobby.
What I really enjoyed about the book was it gave a look into the workings of Washington at the time.
Politicians at times seemed to actually make imperfect attempts to work for the public good.
A lot of Kennedy's work on investigating unions reminds us of a time when organized labour had a say in policy and was a big player in Washington.
In some ways, we have gotten much better since the times of RFK in many ways, however, they are our superiors.
Ambition and politics always came after caring.I started reading this book after Arthur Schlesinger died a couple of years ago (I read A Thousand Days in high school and loved it).
I really didn't know much about RFK before starting this book.
This country would have been lucky to have him longer than it did.Just a great quote from near the end of the book: "The real stake in the American political process involves not the fate of speechwriters and fund-raisers but the lives of millions of people seeking hope out of despair."
Schlesinger Jr. brings a vivid, personal, yet balanced perspective to RFK.
I came away from reading this with the impression that Kennedy was continually evolving personally as well as professionally, yet he did not compromise his characteristic bluntness or what he believed in.
RFK seemed to live with a continual fear of gunshots and being shot himself, yet he did not keep this fear from letting him live his life.
Unfortunately, his decision to do that also contributed to him losing him life.
Schlesinger Jr. details the torment that went through RFK's mind as he contemplated (too long) the decision to run in 1968.
Great portrait of a very complex and I think very important figure in the political and social history of the United States.
With the relationship between Schlesinger and the Kennedy family (very close), one must be wary that the relationship does not taint the message and I think Schlesinger does a very good job in this regard.
While the author's closeness to the family has the potential to be a negative Schlesinger manages to turn it into a positive by remaining even handed and capturing some truly riveting accounts of some of the defining moments of the era that would probably be unavailable for an author further removed from the Kennedy's inner circle.
Although Schlesinger is hardly an unbiased biographer, this roughly 1100 page view into Robert Kennedy's life is not at all shy about quoting all of Bobby's critics fairly and frequently.
While most of the well-known subjects regarding Bobby's role in the Kennedy administration are all touched upon, including his clash with Hoover and the FBI as AG, I found his role as chief counsel for the Senate Rackets Committee as well as his work in the Civil Rights movement the most revealing.
He was certainly a tremendous political force in a very turbulent time.
Liked this slightly better than Schlesinger’s “A Thousand Days” about JFK.
Definitely a different style than Evan Thomas’s RFK bio, but good nonetheless.
The chapters regarding Vietnam were particularly poignant.
We’ll never know exactly what difference Bobby Kennedy would have made on the war had he lived beyond 1968.
However, we can remember his passion for justice and his caring for society’s underdogs.
(1968 was 50 years ago now and reading this book causes one to wonder just what we have learned exactly in those decades since Vietnam, the Great Society, racial injustice, and intergenerational poverty.)
It takes a special kind of person (with an excellent biographer I might add) to make one mourn their death 50 years after the fact and 24 years before you were even born, and yet.A gripping read despite the length, an excellent insight into the life of perhaps the greatest president the US never had
Schlesinger described his relationship to Robert Kennedy as that of a great admirer and devoted friend, going on to say "if it is necessary for a biographer of Robert Kennedy to regard him as evil, then I am not qualified to be his biographer." This biography was definately written with love and respect, while still making a valient effort to tell the complete story.
I have always thought our world might be different had he lived, but just how different he had the potential to make America makes his early death even more tragic.
A complete telling of RFK's life. I would have given it 5 stars, but the assassination isn't mentioned at all. The book opens with the funeral and closes with him entering the kitchen at the Ambassador Hotel on 6/5/1968. If someone had no idea how RFK died, they would finish the book wondering what happened.
One of my favorite biographies, and if it's a bit sentimental on what-could-have been, it's understandable. This is a story of the growth of a very complex human being who had the courage and will to change.
Only read a number of chapters for an essay I did on his life, but Schlesinger knew the man, and he writes well. I love the description of the emotion Kennedy shows when he visits the homeless and destitute. Inspiring.
The 50th anniversary of Robert Kennedy’s assassination seemed an appropriate occasion to read Arthur Schlesinger’s epic biography, ‘Robert Kennedy and his Times’.
What impressed me most about RFK - perhaps the dominant impression I took away from this biography - was his ability to grow and mature as a person and a man.
RFK stood head and shoulders above such figures - and, indeed, above most politicians, of whatsoever background or party affiliation.
Schlesinger’s biography, it must be said, is far from being an impartial look at Robert Kennedy.
The book is that rare instance where subject and biographer are perfectly matched.
Having read Schlesinger's book on JFK's time in the White House, 'A Thousand Days', for which he received the Pulitzer prize for biography, I consider 'Robert Kennedy and His Times' the superior publication.Purchased from a book shop in Hey on Wye for the laughable price of £3, this has to be one of the best value for money literary works in my collection.Although Schlesinger was a dedicated Kennedy man, first with JFK and after with Bobby, I thought his treatment of RFK's biography was balanced, erudite and fair.
This was my first read of Schlesinger (political prize winning New Dealer/New Frontiersman w books on FDR, Jackson, among others) and I came away fairly impressed.
The first 1/4 of the book covered Joe Kennedy Sr. in tremendous detail, at the cost of a relatively brief coverage of RFK's early childhood and adolescence.
I wish AMS had covered RFK's 1968 presidential candidacy in more extensive detail; the end of the bio felt hurried.
Overall, I would definitely recommend this National Book Award winner to any fan of 20th century American history and look forward to reading another Schlesinger bio down the road.
If you want plenty of detail about the politics during RFK's life, this is the book for you.
If you're looking for a read that is more focused on the man himself (and something a little less dense), you may want to steer clear.
As an unashamed RFK fan, I love the depth and minutiae of this book - and really appreciated Schlesinger's personal anecdotes.
RFK remains my favourite of the three brothers, and this book really exemplifies why.
RFK was incredibly complex.
The ability and willingness to re-evaluate yourself is rare, but RFK was no ordinary man.
It is not often that a brilliant life and writer coincide.
In Robert Kennedy and His Times, Arthur Schlesinger Jr. portrays Robert Kennedy as a gentle leader, a moral exemplar, a tireless defender for those who suffered in America during the tumultuous 1960s.
Few authors can articulate the parallels of the past and the present, of the necessity of similar leadership in today's politics, as well as Schlesinger.
Fewer still can express this need with a clarity and subtlety of writing that leaves you in shock almost every sentence.
This book illuminates the leadership and morality of one man, and the true genius of another.
Bob Kennedy was a fascinating political figure and I gleaned so much insight into his childhood, his adolescence and his politics from this book. Recommended to anyone who wants to know more about the Kennedy family and their history.
Review of Robert Kennedy and his timesGood book long, but that was i was looking for. Did not like how it abruptly ended but the story was sadly over
A thorough (at times too thorough) biography of a charismatic figure of contemporary American history.
A Robert Kennedy presidency would have brought a quick end to American involvement in the Vietnam War. Those thousands of Americans—and many thousands more Vietnamese and Cambodians—who were killed from 1969 to 1973 would have been at home with their families.
A Robert Kennedy presidency would have consolidated and extended the achievements of John Kennedy’s New Frontier and Lyndon Johnson’s Great Society.
If that still fast-flowing tide so influenced a conservative administration, what signal opportunities it would have given a reform president!
The confidence that both black and white working-class Americans had in Robert Kennedy would have created the possibility of progress toward racial reconciliation.
For some RFK will always remain 'ruthless', the red-baiting Senate investigator who worked for Joe McCarthy, during the early ’50s and who followed that up by becoming JFK's tough-guy campaign manager treating all opponents as mortal enemies.
RFK will always remain something of an enigma, charismatic, complex and seemingly constantly evolving, over forty years after his death he still has the power to fascinate and while we may never know if RFK would have fulfilled his promise, Schlesinger's book is likely to remain the most detailed and definitive account of his life.
I just want to say that it's challenge even for a devout Kennedy fan.Now onto the actual book-Schelsinger is genius at being able to express the pure energy that run off RFK-whether its during the civil rights struggle, his opposition to Vietnam or his 1968 this book perfectly captures the magic of the times and the magic of the man.
The book is at it's best after JFK's death purely because this is when Kennedy became his man, and the book goes through the struggles that emerge.The chilling chapters at the end capture just this-his soaring oratory in 1968, his personal vendetta against injustice and his challenge for the Presidency.
This book has been in my personal library since I bought and first read it in late 1979.
This reading left me wondering if things were worse then or now.
In the sixties they were dealing with the Vietnam War and battles against overt, hateful racism which threatened to split the nation again.
Perhaps the flagrant racism is now gone, but Obama now comes to power at a time when strident character-assassination politics has ruled for nearly thirty years, the entire economy threatens to implode, and the U.S. is hated or feared worldwide.
RFK is to many people the last politician they could trust emotionally, a man of infinite compassion yet ruthless integrity, a person of infinite compassion yet ruthless integrity, someone with a prosecutor's ferocity yet a poet's sensibility.
He was murdered before he could really do much to validate the immense, almost messianic hopes that people laid on him, and this biography, written by a man who knew him well, takes you through his journey from hard-edged enforcer of justice to champion of the downtrodden in a way that will leave you greatly saddened at the cruelties of history.

I absolutely loved this book, beginning to end.
It so clearly demonstrates who Bobby was, by a historian who lived those times with him.
For instance, I thought Bobby did not declare his candidacy until after Johnson announced he was not running again - not true!
And Bobby did not agree with college deferment to get out of the draft.
He thought that wasn't fair.
But no matter, because Bobby was winning the primaries, although he didn't win Oregon.
If you want just one book that explains the politics of the 1960s, this is it.
As with many Americans, Schlesinger ached when JFK's promise was cut short in 1963.
This book firmly documents the life, history, and evolution of RFK, charting his role as advisor to his older brother, his grief and retreat after the assassination, and his rebirth as a passionate prophet against poverty and for the downtrodden.
Schlesinger charts the progress toward the 1968 campaign, and all of the elements that make me admire Bobby the most of the Kennedy brothers.
The book is full at 1000 pages, but still ends as abruptly as Bobby's life.
The essential book on RFK, but for hardy readers.
You must take into consideration that Arthur Schlesinger Jr. was one of the Kennedy family's friends and veritable good ole boys, but regardless, this book covers so much of RFK's life and times.
From his boyhood, watching older brothers Joe and John take center stage as the promising siblings to the Cuban Missile Crisis to the untimely death of President Kennedy to RFK's own run for Presidency and subsequent assassination.
Because of Arthur's connection with the family, I think it lends a heart felt look at RFK and who he was from the perspective of a friend.
If you are looking to villainize the Kennedy's, this is not the book for you.
This is a very thorough overview of RFK's career.
Congressional committee member, Attorney General, Senator and Democratic Presidential hopeful.
Every phase of his public life is fairly critiqued.
I say fairly because Schlesinger is a Kennedy family friend and JFK cabinet advisor.
The Attorney General chapters are the most interesting and provide a more revealing look at the inner workings of the Kennedy Administration than most JFK bios.
I wish there was more detail on his private life and relationships with his wife, kids, Jack and Jackie.
I feel I got to know RFK the public servant very well.
Not so much RFK the man.
The book is long, very detailed and not the easiest to get through; there's literally a footnote on every other page of this 1000 page biography.
The fact that its so detailed does give you a good understanding of the history of the time as well as a sense of the overall political climate.
Schlesinger seems to kind of lose momentum towards the end of the book; for as detailed his coverage of Kennedy's tenure as Attorney General and early senatorial career, he hurries through the '68 campaign and gives little to no insight into the assassination.
