https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/38447.The_Handmaid_s_Tale
It's been almost five years since I wrote my review. I've rewritten large parts of it for clarity. The main idea remains the same. Extremist Judeo-Christian beliefs have won America's culture war. Now women have no rights. They are slaves to men and the biblical, patriarchal society in which they live. The Handmaid's Tale is the first-person account of one of these enslaved women.Massachusetts Turns Into Saudi Arabia?More than thirty years have passed since The Handmaid's Tale was first publish
(This is no train wreck like José Saramago's Blindness, but it's bad enough.) Simply put, if you can ignore whether you agree or disagree with Margaret Atwood's ideas about politics, religion, and women's rights, the plot and setting make no sense.The religiosity of the Reagan era inspired Atwood's dystopia, in which fundamentalist Christians have taken over society.
, will show you what it's really like to live in a society where women are chattel.- Some think that because I dislike this book I'm not a feminist, or am a bad feminist.
That being said… Update 11/14/16: An unqualified, racist, xenophobic, sexist, pathological liar, psychopathic reality star was elected to be the 45th president of the United States and the leader of the free world.
But then there are the white women, 53% went for Trump…..oh my sisters, I have no words.Which brings me to the reason why this update is relevant to this review and to this book (for those who tell me that my opinion is unwarranted....again.) Is the United States a more racist country, or a more sexist country?
In the back cover of "The Handmaids Tale", it goes on to say: "Atwood takes many trends which exist today and stretches them to their logical and chilling....blah, blah, blahhhhhh..." ...and let me just state that I noticed the review by Newsweek long after I had already started reading the book.
It was probably noticed during one of those moments of frustration where I single-handedly flipped the book around wondering, "whatthefuckingfuck?".I'll give you a perfect example of how she used this "trend".I'm reading about women in habits, who seem to be pious and obedient, living in the Republic of Gilead.
I thought this book was going to have some psychological depth, but to me it was just like reading a cheap novel.
I have read a lot of books over the years and I've liked many, disliked plenty too, loved and hated a smaller amount...
One of my favourite teachers in the world gave me this book and said "I think you'll like this one."She was so wrong.
I didn't like this book; I loved it.
Atwood's world-building may be sparse and built up gradually as the story unfolds, but she slowly paints a portrait of stifling oppression and injustice that had me hanging on her every word.For someone like me who was so caught up in Offred's experiences, this book was truly disturbing.
It was not hard at the time to extrapolate the ultimate end that this cocktail of fundamentalism, conservatism, violence, disease, and disaster would bring, but what Atwood could not know, is how much of her novel would become reality in the world.Amazingly, twenty years after it was written, there are elements of the story that have become true—perhaps not in the United States, where the story takes place, but throughout the world.
I’ve been moved by books in the past, many times, but I’ve never before read a book that has emotionally drained me to such a degree. This is frightening and powerful. And sometimes it only takes a single paragraph to make you realise how much so:  “Yes, Ma’am, I said again, forgetting. They used to have dolls, for little girls, that would talk if you pulled a string at the back; I thought I was sounding like that, voice of a monotone, voice of a doll. She probably longed to slap my face. They c
Men in power have taken complete control of women in both body and mind to insure an increase in the declining birth-rates.
The women are owned by the state, by the men and by corruption; their bodies are nothing more than a means to provide new life.
The small degree of liberty the Handmaids think they have doesn’t actually exist: it’s an illusion, a trick, a shadow on the wall.
It’s a book I will definitely be reading again because it is just so thought provoking and disturbing.Blog | Twitter | Facebook | Instagram | Academia
The dystopian future she describes in "Gilead" which appears to be centered in Boston (due to the reference to Mass Ave and the town of Salem) is chillingly misogynistic where women are reduced to strict categories: Martha for housework and cooking, Jezebels (easy to guess, right?), Eyes, Angels (soldiers for the state), infertile Wives and potentially fertile Handmaids.
Could things so change as quickly as she describes in the book?
Isn't blaming the rape victim, causing her to bear the burden of unwarranted shame and social stigma a familiar tactic employed by the defense attorney?Hasn't the 21st century witnessed the fate of Savita Halappanavars who are led to their untimely deaths by inhumane laws of nations still unwilling to acknowledge the importance of the life of a mother over her yet unborn child?Doesn't the 21st century have materially prosperous nations governed by absurd, archaic laws which prohibit a woman from driving a car?Doesn't the world still take pleasure in terrorizing activists like Caroline Criado-Perez with threats of rape and murder only because they have the audacity to campaign for female literary icons (Jane Austen) to become the face of Britain's 10-pound note?Do I not live in a country where female foeticide is as normal an occurrence as the rising and setting of the sun?Are we still calling this speculative fiction?Some may wish to labour under the delusion that the women belonging to this much vaunted modern civilization of ours are not experiencing the same nightmare as Offred and are at perfect liberty to do what they desire.
Imagine the future where the roles of the women reduced to those assigned to them in Old Testament - they are no longer allowed to read, work, own property, or handle money.
Imagine the future where women can only be the Wives, domestics (the Marthas), sexual toys (the Jezebels), female prison guards (the Aunts), wombs (the Handmaids), or, if they are unsuited for any of these roles, Unwomen who are sent off to the Colonies where they harvest cotton if they are lucky or clean out radioactive waste if they aren't.Well, after you've imagined that, you can imagine very easily how much I was terrified by this book.
For me, "The Handmaid's Tale" is a powerful novel that is in my mind next to Saramago's "Blindness," another book that left me sleepless.Reading challenge: #22
What she wrote in this novel, the world she created is absurd isn't it?
It is absurd to think that people’s will can be so easily obliterated, that minds can be erased and that fear can rule one’s life into submission.
Ok, there were no compulsory pregnancy tests and promotion did not depend on fertility but a decree was passed by Ceausescu, our last communist president where all birth control and abortion was banned.
It is hard to identify the person that wrote the document as there were probably many people that lost sleep over this novel in Atwood’s republic.
A true dystopian classic.
This is incredibly well written, & I think that is why it's fan base is so enormous & faithful.
It made Entertainment Weekly's "Top 25 Best Books of the Last 25 Years."The account reminds me of, and is probably written trying to somehow emulate, "The Diary of Anne Frank." This new vision of the future is one devoid the female mystique, with only one sex becoming triumphant &) dominating the other.
This is misogyny to the nth degree.
It ends in a very Coen Brothers fashion!
Again, kinda like 'em Coens.
In a good piece of writing, you shouldn't see the writer at all.
Her style lacks the subtlety required to tell a story like this.The other problem is that it's impossible to forget that this was written in the mid-1980s.
Of course, I'm not a big fan of dystopian writing, so I can only draw on 1984 again as a reference, but: the great thing about 1984 is that it doesn't read like it was written in 1948.
The novel served as a warning in its own time, and it is interesting to read it with that in mind.
It is thought-provoking and terrifying.The story centers on the heroine, Offred, who is a "handmaiden" in this futuristic world created by Ms. Atwood.
Worse yet, if she fails to produce a child then she will face a fate reserved for the lowliest of women.This is the world that Offred and others are left with after a brutal civil war stamped out the rights that citizens like Offred had taken for granted.
Before long, citizens like Offred cannot even recognize their new reality.
Women, especially, face a grim fate.This book is remarkable!
It is a book that needs to be read and taken in by readers.
I don't even know where to start with this book??I was not able to connect with the Characters in the book at all. It was a task to completely finish this book at all.I know I am in the minority, but I don't know what all the hype was with this book. I think that Atwood was long winded in her writing style and did not help with the connections with the Characters. I honestly don't have much more to say about this book.
Don't let the bastards grind you down. There's a lot of talk about women's rights these days. There were times where I thought: enough already. You girls got it good. I looked around me and saw women with strong voices and a million choices. If they wished to go for a career, they could go for it. If they didn't, no biggie. Their liberty seemed greater than men's in a lot of respects. The power they wield over men is magnificent and often described as the greatest humanity is capable of: a woma
Men's political and physical powers look puny and artificial in contrast, as their strings are constantly pulled by forces they can't resist.
And then you see all the machinations that have gone into trying to rob women of their mystical, almost holy, powers in greater kingdoms, machinations that often seem on the verge of systematising in the blink of an eye.So, having accepted that the Woman's struggle is real, I was reading The Handmaid's Tale that paints a picture of how things would look like if circumstance and evil succeeded in stripping women of all the agency they have.
We were the people who were not in the papers. We lived in the blank white spaces at the edges of print. It gave us more freedom. We lived in the gaps between the stories. Set in the not-so-distant future, Offred is designated as a Handmaid. Meaning her fertile womb "allows" her to stay in the house of Fred as his legal consort. (Hence the name "Of Fred" and the not-so-subtle foreshadowing "offered".) Her alternative? Working in the radioactive wastelands (which would undoubtedly lead to her de
We lived in the gaps between the stories.
Meaning her fertile womb "allows" her to stay in the house of Fred as his legal consort.
So, she stays on as a "handmaid" in the hopes of producing a child by Fred to be raised by him and his wife.
As a result, we are forced to read as she is systematically raped by Fred on her fertile nights.
According to the introduction, Margaret Atwood did not create any of the rules, regulations and punishments forced upon these women.
Nolite te bastardes carborundorum.
Don't let the bastards grind you down.
Let's start implementing that commandment where people are actually dying.I am Pro Life: Let's work to put an end to the distribution and availability of weapons, the death penalty, and wars.
Let's focus on the big issues that threaten life on earth!
Pro Life!Update a couple of months into Year One Of Dystopia: I just listened to an interview with a conservative Catholic politician in the UK who believes so much in the teachings of the Catholic Church that he thinks it is morally indefensible for a woman raped by a family member to have an abortion.
This dystopian horror story is made all the more real by the bridge Atwood has created between the world we know now and the world that could be – the story’s protagonist remembers the time before the change.
This is, to my knowledge, a unique element in the dystopian genre, whereas in many others the setting is some time in the far future and there seems little hope for change or revolution.
More than that, the heroine, Offred (not her real name but the proprietary title she is given) is an approachable, likable character that brings the reader dangerously close to the action.
An interesting book to read right now for a couple of reasons.
One, I just finished 1984 and it was very much a world like the one in 1984.
Two, the storyline closely reflects the fears of the current political climate in America.It is hard to say that a story like this is "great" as that has a positive connotation.
I was very enthralling, but terrifying at the same time.
As a man, I don't think this story has as deep of an impact on me as it would if I was a woman.
If you like dystopian, you must check this book out.
I would love to write a lengthy review for this book. But I can't. Because I'm so emotionally drained after reading it that it's a miracle I'm not still hiding underneath a pile of blankets, sobbing. This is by no means an easy read, but I think it's a book that everyone needs to read. Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Pinterest
EDIT 02/06/2016: Lowering the rating to two. I finished it more than a week ago and now I realized I haven't thought of it once. It really left me nothing."Better never means better for everyone, he says. It always means worse, for some."I used to think of my reading taste as predictable. Well, at least a very specific part of my reading taste: namely, there are very few things in the world that I love more than I love dyostopias in the style of  1984  and, above any other,  Brave New World  (se
It always means worse, for some."I used to think of my reading taste as predictable.
(seriously, you need to read that book).
This is why I was convinced I was bound to like The Handmaid's Tale; and yet, right before I started it, I was caught by a hunch that my certainties were not certain at all.I don't know if it's self-conditioning or whatever, but my gut feelings lately are unerring.•Have you ever heard of Coleridge and the suspension of disbelief?
Lo and behold, this book made me struggle to grant it my suspension of disbelief.
One thing that I really liked about the development of the story: as the circumstances of the handmaid's life and surroundings become clearer and more oppressive, she actually seems to gain some small measure of hope.
Over the past few days, I've frequently found myself sitting on the metro, looking out the window and thinking about different passages and themes from the novel, marveling at how the story seems both far away and very familiar.I'd be interested to chat with anyone else about their take on the book.
Tan duro que no podía leer más de diez páginas diarias. Era incapaz. P.D Si no hubiese machitos escocíos con este libro, entonces significaría que Margaret no lo hizo bien.
i am a massive scaredy cat.
so this book came as an absolute shock.
right down to my bones.how can i be so fascinated by this kind of society, but also repulsed by it at the same time?
why do i feel confident that something like this could never happen, but also have a voice in the back of my mind whispering, ‘are you really so sure?’ what makes me want to never think about this book again, but also know that its the kind of story that will forever haunt me?i.
Υπέροχο και σκληρό βιβλίο,αμιγώς προειδοποιητικό για τον κίνδυνο που διατρέχει κάθε κοινωνία η οποια βρίσκεται σε πλήρη ηθική,ανθρωπιστική και οικονομική κρίση.
Η αλήθεια ειναι πως το βιβλίο ειναι μια μαύρη κόλαση ένας τρόπος να αντιληφθείς άμεσα τα σάπια και τερατώδη γνωρίσματα του πολιτισμού μας.
Η ιστορια μας ειναι σαν ένα ημερολόγιο μιας ανώνυμης Πορφύρης δούλης -οι πορφυρές δούλες δεν έχουν ονόματα- και μέσα απο την ιστορια της στο παρελθόν και στο παρόν μαθαίνουμε με ανατριχιαστικές λεπτομέρειες τους λόγους και τα γεγονότα που οδήγησαν στη δημιουργία του κόσμου του Γιλεάδ.
But let me tell you – I honestly felt like everything happening there is inevitable.
People in power will always abuse it and the only thing necessary for the triumph of evil is for good men to do nothing.*At first it was a bit hard to wrap my head around the style of this book (it felt a bit boring), but after a few chapters I got drawn into in.*The ending surprised me.*The second ending surprised me even more.
The way that fiction blended with reality was insane.*Conclusion: a wonderful horror book.
The future where she lives is dystopian, but the word doesn't do justice to this book's plot.
Among all the dystopian fictions I've read...e.g Matched by Ally Condie, Delirium by Lauren Olivier, or going back even more, The Chrysalids by John Wyndham, none is as scary as Offred's world.The story elements lean towards women, because the main character is a woman.
It affects pro-choice people.
It affects the romantics who draw inspiration from the roots of the Renaissance.
The book is so overwhelming that the mind boggles and cannot cope.Whoever you are, read this book, if you haven't done so.
Reading The Handmaid's Tale can be an education.
Three years later, I was of open mind to what Atwood was doing and was deeply affected by it.The story is the account of a woman who the reader comes to know as Offred (Of-Fred).
Offred recounts fragments of her internment and reeducation at the Red Center, where women are molded into subservient vessels of a Puritan theocracy by their matron instructors, the Aunts, and kept from escape to Canada or open revolt by the armed wing of the state, the males-only Angels.
Atwood rations details about America's descent into Puritan theocracy like emergency supplies aboard a life raft.
“A rat in a maze is free to go anywhere, as long as it stays inside the maze.”This was my first adult dystopian novel and also the most realistic one I've read.
I doubt that the future is ever going to look like this, but Margaret Atwood painted a multi-layered and thought-provoking picture that is going to stay with me for quite a while.I've never read a Margaret Atwood book before, but I have been eyeing her works for a while now.
I recommed this to everyone and I can't wait to read more of Atwood's books.Find more of my books on Instagram
Offred remembers the time before and knows there must be a way out of the hell men have created...Once upon a time, I dated a woman whose favorite writer was Margaret Atwood and she passed along this book for me to read.
Now, in the later part of 2017, it feels a lot more plausible so I decided it was time for a reread.Margaret Atwood paints a grim view of a future when women's rights are stripped away until they're reduced to breeding stock.
