https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18920.On_Practice_and_Contradiction
Take this as a personal philosophy or a bit of bluff, it is a deeply unsettling thing for the leader a major power to say in the cold war, even if he was bluffing in an attempt to create deterrence.Most of the essays circle around his addition to Marxist philosophy, and the relationship between intellectual knowledge and practical experience.
Any serious attempt to deal with Mao's legacy must address the good and bad of both myth and history, and unfortunately this edition does neither.Here my star rating is more than useless, it is confusing: the Žižek essay is abominable, but reading Mao was something worth grappling with, although I can't say I agree with him.
These different forces had to be, Mao held, in constant interaction, constantly testing the contradictions between the different classes and groups, because only then would the most revolutionary voice in any given situation have at least a chance of coming out on top.
Mao rejected Hegel's (and Marx's) concept of the negation of negation, the notion that eventually society would evolve to a point where all social contradictions would be resolved.
Mao thought that any contradiction could become primary, and that if the situation did not exist in a society for a contradiction to be resolved it could always become antagonistic- a violent, potentially revolutionary contradiction.
zizek's intro is a load of bollocks- learnt he borrows a misquote of Mao from the chang and halliday book which suggests he was willing to kill half the country- he was saying the opposite... just Zizek smuggling his fascist guff in through leftism, while simultaneously making Mao look awful for the right-wing audience... it's really bizarre to have that intro up front, just obscures everything
i finally finished this big old book.
all this dude talks about is universal vs particular contradictions, and thats pretty cool, but who knows why marxists were all obsessed with steel production.
oh man, we produced 400,000 tonnes of steel this year.
i mean, who even cqares abotu steal.
ever heard of an ipod, fuck tard?>???
i also liked the part where he talked about imperialism as a paper tiger, and how china getting nuked would be a minor event for the universe or whatever.
i didnt like how he really liked peasants even tho they just toil and smoke cigarettes and buy lottery tickets.
The second essay primarily focuses on dialectics individually, specifically outlining the fundamentals of dialectics alongside its formation and the role of identity.On Practice delves into the idea that both theory and practice are necessary to having a complete socialist revolution.
This work presents a strong case for dialectical materialism being a process which is spiral in nature, that of a repetitive cycle alongside actual progression.On Contradiction primarily focuses on the separation of dialectics into two forms, that of the universal and that of the particular.
It is interesting that the United States, the most liberal (individualistic) country in the world, had a group of "founding fathers", whereas China, with its socialism with Chinese characteristics and its sense of filial responsibility, had an individual "founding father".
The Chinese people are not to be cowed by US atomic blackmail.Mao justifies this stance through the historical processes of socialism: The First World War increased the number of socialists (via the Soviet Union); the Second World War increased the number of socialists again (via the People's Republic of China); and thus the Third World War will increase the number of socialists yet again, and so on until we all live happily ever after.
How the unity and the struggle of opposites works and how it doesn't work ("On Contradiction").The last essay "Talk On Questions on Philosophy", is a neat articulation of Mao's own understanding of class struggle and the role of philosophy.
Contra "bad infinity" in which the struggle of the opposites is absolutized (Mao), Hegel at least according to Zizek opted for the third option where one voluntarily takes the side of the bad aspect in the "initial either/or" as to undermine the whole field in which the dialectics take place.
The writings by Mao were incredible, but it takes much previous knowledge from books by Marx, Engels
Mao expands on the Marxist dialectic
Very stern. Very serious. Very important for those of us learning and stumbling our way through socialist thought and trying to deepen our understandings of class struggle and political economy and hopefully have enough faith and discipline to enact it.Shout out to Mao, one of the greatest to ever do it.
The most ruthless communist, makes Pol pot and Stalin seem idealistic. Useful realism in this book regardless, you can apply aspects of his thought to make you quite successful but only so far as you are prepared to embrace the ruthless aspect.
You know what they say; ”know your enemy”. Interesting for sure, but I’m not sure I agree.
Skip Zizek's introduction and go straight into Mao's work. Mao is a powerhouse of an essayist who practiced what he preached. Some of his best work is contained in these pages.
I definitely need to reread this since it was very complicated with all the terms that i needed to search while reading. Still best piece of intellectual background for the socialist doctrine. Would recommend this rather than reproachful Marx.
Great collection of Mao's philosophical writings.
I've returned to this volume countless times since it was first gifted to me in 2010.
Zizek's introduction has never had much value to me: I've read it twice and don't remember what's in it.
However, the source texts included are the foundation for a Maoist theory of knowledge and a Maoist theory of humanity's significance in the scheme of things.
The only thing missing is an explication of Mao's theory of the Mass Line, arguably his most important contribution for political practitioners of all stripes.
For that check out his Talks at Yenan or chapter 11 of the red book.
For an analysis of Mao Zedong Thought and Marxism-Leninism in general visit my blog: https://deepcomrade.wordpress.com/201...
A great experience reading the works of a revolutionary. This books depicts various methods a revolutionary can get involved in his process and explains the importance of Practice in revolutionary path. On of the finest works of Mao
First off, Zizek's intro is ridiculous and bizarre.
He was clearly trying to cause a reaction - its overly complicated and dumb.
Mao's pieces on the other hand are works of pure genius and creativity, whether you agree with Dialectical Materialism or not this is an important read for everyone who wants to understand Maoism.
Mao's writing is simple and straight to the point and unlike some of Lenins work - its very easy to understand.
Its also very interesting to move from this onto Lin Biao's work "Long live the Victory of Peoples War" which applies Mao's ideas from this book onto a global scale.
Zizek's introduction focuses on abstract philosophical topics and is pretty skippable unless you are into that -- which we learn Mao explicitly wasn't as we move beyond Zizek's intro into Mao's writings. The collection of Mao's work is a great one that covers a variety of topics spanning two or three decades' time. Pair this book with Mao Zedong and China in the 20th Century: A Concise History and you get a good foundation of both the history and thought of Mao.
Mislead by the cover. I was under the impression that this would be Zizek's critique of Maoism. It is that to some extent, but mostly exerpts from Mao's writing. Still worth reading though.
Would have given it five stars if it wasn't for the awful introduction by Žižek.
