https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/233790.Mary_Anne_Saves_the_Day
Mary Anne takes centre stage here, living with her widowed father, her mother Alma died of cancer when she was a baby, Mary Anne is fighting for a bit more independence.
Soon Mary Anne and Dawn realize their parents were high school sweethearts and they start planning around for a reunion to happen.
It is also in this book that Mary Anne takes on a new babysitting charge, an only child named Jenny that is dressed more like a doll than a child, but I love how sensitive Mary Anne sees the good in Jenny and in her parents too.
I found 8 BSC books in my library's free book bin so I took it upon myself to bring them all home with me. I started with this one. I have no regrets.
good thing the series is based in connecticut & not utah, or i'd think she was taking the temperature of her eldest child borne by her aging mormon husband or something.however, when i got older (like mid-20s) & re-read the series, the mary anne books were pretty awesome.
prezzioso gives mary anne (& dawn, who is introduced in this book) a $10 bonus.dawn is introduced here after the babysitters have some ridiculous huge fight (i miss the BSC fights--they happened a lot in the beginning of the series & then it was fairly smooth sailing until stacey started hanging out with the "bad girls") & mary anne doesn't have anyone to sit with at lunch.
Nothing defines my preteen era more than The Babysitter's Club. OH, how much I would like to list all 179 books that I read. Instead, I will only add this one as it was the first one I read. I bought it by chance at one of those mobile book fairs that came to school every few months. Do they still have those things? They were great.
I got this off BookMooch as I never got the chance to read it as a child and it was the first Mary Anne book. A very sweet story, and definitely one of the better novels written by Ann herself, not the ghostwriters. It had a good message in it and was a nice read. 10/10
(Like when she gets home five minutes late from the Pikes - I really like how she learns that yes, she should have phoned her dad to let him know she'd be a little late.) I also really like the inclusion of Dawn, and the start of her friendship with Mary Anne.
It is hilarious, however, that the BSC gets in that mega fight literally in the first chapter of the book.
That shocked me, I'm so used to the formulaic 15-chapter BSC.Edit 1/27/2018 - I just remembered that  Ann M Martin was originally asked to only write four Baby-sitters Club books, so this would have been the last of them.
The girls of the babysitters club have a fallout! Can the club still run with everyone fighting and not talking to each other? And Mary Ann meets a new girl named Dawn. So what does that mean for her friendship with Kristy? This was a cute story , I just didn’t like that the girls where so mean to each other over a small little thing so that’s why I gave it 3 stars.
The petty fights that feel like the end of the world, the longing to belong, the fear and courage that come in the face of an emergency, the fear and courage that come in the face of confronting a parent about changes you hope for.
I have already recommended the book to my older daughter in hopes that she will recognize that the feelings and perspective that she has is mirrored in millions of other girls and have been dealt with and surmounted in the past and can be overcome again.
Now to comb the internet for any of the other books in the series available for purchase...
Besides Mary Anne's odd appearance, Jenny Prezzioso's face looks like the man in the moon.This was a good reread, but I have to say- Mary Anne's father's insistence upon keeping his preteen daughter positively infantile is incredibly creepy.
Also weird- when Jenny Prezzioso's fever hit 104, why didn't Mary Anne give her a friggin' Tylenol before calling 911 and requesting an ambulance?
Everyone does exactly what you'd expect them to- Kristy is a grudge-holding asshole, Stacey is a snob, Mary Anne is freaked out and desperate for the fight to be over, and Claudia looks to everyone else for cues.
You can tell Ann M Martin intended for this to be the last book in the series - Mary Anne really grows up and becomes her own character, and the story ends on a satisfying high.
Mary Anne decides to stand her ground and, well, fight back a bit too.
In it she makes a new friend all on her own and realises she can be her own person without Kristy and the BSC.In summary, I could appreciate what Ann M Martin did with this story, but it wasn't the type of drama I personally enjoy, and found myself yawning once or twice throughout.
***Rated by my daughter***
Mary Anne Spier was one of my earliest role models, and now I know that I still love her.
Despite how much or how little I liked each character, they all had at least one thing that resonated with the young girl I was.Mary Anne is actually the first member of The Baby-sitters Club that I was introduced to and she always remained one of my favorites.
Despite the fact I was more like Kristy, I found something comforting about how sensitive Mary Anne could be and how loving she was towards her friends.
Besides, I remember the petty fights my friends and I had at the age and no matter how stupid it was, we let them drag on and on and on.This particular fight actually serves as a positive thing for Mary Anne and in the end, the entire club.
Mary Anne, the shy and conservative babysitter who's being raised by a single dad, gets her first crack at narrating a book.
I liked that this book did a good job realistically portraying how fights between young people feel so drastic and world-shaking when they can be started over practically nothing, and also it's good that Mary Anne's dad has a layer to him--he has a good reason for being so overprotective.
I liked how Mary Anne stepped up to the plate in this book and showed that sometimes babysitting isn't as easy as some people think it is.
Mary Anne feels really bad about what happened at the babysitters club meeting.Mary anne went home a
I have such a soft spot for MA Saves the Day. It's the first time MA really stands up for herself and it also sets up her fighting style with the BSC. She takes their abuse until she snaps and then she hits them right where it hurts the most. Most importantly for me, Dawn is introduced and I love the weird triangle it throws Dawn/MA/Kristy into.
First BSC book I picked up, and even though I've read this a few times, Mary Anne's composure and sense of responsibility remains to impress!I loved the BSC growing up, and have decided to re-read (or read for the first time) some of the books in the series. Which of the members are you? :)
Another fun and eventful book in the Babysitters Club series.
I liked this book. I really felt for Mary Anne because I have the same personality as her and I I'd know what it would feel like to be In that situation.
Lizzy's and my favorite by far of the first 4 we've read together.
Mary Anne Saves the Day is actually a single book in a series called The Baby-Sitters Club which is a group of four girls sticking together through the highs and lows of school and life.
I know that graphic novels often get bad names because they are full of pictures instead of words, but I think they can be a beautiful tool for young readers.
So if graphic novels are used correctly they can improve a struggling reader's confidence and make for great discussions about what they might think if happening within the story.
I was really excited to discover this book was the introduction to Dawn.Things I've considered since reading this as an adult:Mary Anne's mental "apology" letters to her friends are so hilarious!
Have you considered seeking professional help?") My amusement at these letters must be the reason why I cannot send notes (or in this age, texts) of apology without sounding really sarcastic.Several times later on in the series, Kristy is upset that Mary Anne becomes so close to Dawn.
During a Baby-sitters Club feud, Mary Anne handles a child's medical emergency on her own.The book starts with a bang: just as it looks like the first chapter will be a "here are the characters, here’s a typical meeting" set-up, the girls suddenly get into a huge fight.
Kristy is so excited to get a call from Mrs. Newton asking to care for Jamie and baby Lucy (continuity from book #3, where caring for Lucy was a big deal) that she takes it on the spot, not offering it to the other members.
So obviously I read a whole bunch of these when I was younger, but re-reading and nostalgia are totally a thing for me right now. We've been finding these in the thrift stores down here, and it's a fun little hunt to collect them. haha. Not one of my favorites, though it introduces Dawn and has a cute moment where she and Mary Anne realize their parents were in high school together (*le gasp*). Just so much taken up with the silly fight that's not really a fight? But everyone SO FLIPPIN MAD THO.
I used to love the Babysitter's Club! My friends and I used to swap them between us when I was in primary school. They were so popular at the time, there was a waiting list at the library if you wanted to read them in chronological order! I used to be allowed to buy one book a week on a Friday when I was younger; this was usually an Enid Blyton, Roald Dahl, Point Horror or one of these! I would love to revisit them at some stage, just for nostalgia's sake!
Mary Anne and the babysitters have a huge fight that seemed was never going to end at all. Though I enjoyed it as it seemed the girls all managed to grow a little while they had separated. I loved finally meeting Dawn in the books, that was awesome and it was nice to see Mary Anne out her comfort zone the whole time with Dawn, she helped her become mature enough for her father to accept her as an almost teen. I loved reading this story even if the girls were all in a huge fight.
I think this story is so amazing. It is so easy to relate to,full of drama,and shows true friendship. Maryanne shows that no matter what she will try to keep her closest friends. However,she reacts the same way any other kid,which makes to story so easy to relate to . I love this story so much and can not wait to read the other books from this series.
Maybe if Mary Anne had just let Jenny Prezzioso's fever run it's course she would have melted into the carpet and nobody would have to deal with her brattiness again in future books.Is that cruel?I don't care. All they ever did was complain about this child. I guess Mary Anne ultimately did the right thing, but I'm just saying.Very different outcome.
There you go, the BSC’ers 1st BIG fight.So, most of the book is about the girls fighting, ignoring each other, being super snarky in the Club Notebook, nearly ruining Jamie’s birthday party (with a funny part where Mary Anne pours punch in Kristy’s lap hah!), etc…But we do get to meet a new character, Dawn Schafer, who is described as “…a tall girl with the blondest hair I had ever seen.
Remains my favorite of the series. I may not have been most like Mary Anne, but she was the one I looked up to. Great to see a strong female character find her strength.Featured on the No Extra Words podcast episode 118.
