https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/107314.Pastoral
This is quite a contrast with the World War Two military life drawn by American authors.There is some excitement when up in the air flying, but otherwise the rest is exceedingly tame and humdrum despite the fact that we are told of failed missions and of crew and pilots that never return.
To top it all off, before he brings the plane down, he sings a resonating heartfelt love sung to his beloved Gervase, broadcasted loud and clear over the airbase loudspeakers.
On the other hand, the author would probably love how the song is sung.
"Pastoral" was one of the many Nevil Shute novels I read when I was 12. I later ran into it again in 1973 in a British bookstore in Bangkok . At the time (the tail-end of the Viet Nam War) I was a WAF captain stationed at an air base on the central plateau of Thailand.I wondered if Gervase Robertson, the heroine I had read so many years before, had led me there--into the Air Force in a time of war.
I'm not sure why Nevil Shute isn't a better known writer, as this is the second book of his that ended up being absolutely wonderful. This story of a British bomber pilot during World War II who falls in love with a female officer felt realistic and romantic at the same time. Shute's real war-time experience could be seen throughout the book and his gift for writing strong, capable female characters has never been better. I'd definitely recommend this one.
It's rather like meeting old friends as I probably first read them in my early 20's.
They tell of a different time and it is important when reading them to remember when they were written.
Pastoral tells of a romance which develops at an airbase in WW2.
It tells of the camraderie of men who go out on bombing sorties over Germany and how important teamwork and trust is if they wish to return alive.
It tells of the joys to be found in nature which help to keep life in perspective for those who may lose their lives at any time.
It's the very essence of simplicity and understatement, filled with careful, seemingly mundane details of his characters' lives.
His characters are very human, very ordinary and yet interesting.
But their relationship is also intricately intertwined with the routine and protocol of everyday life on an R.A.F. post, and the mental and emotional strain on the pilots flying bombing raids over Germany (raids depicted in a couple of riveting scenes in the book) and on the personnel who wait for them to return, and chalk up each night's casualties.
Though I much prefer A Town Like Alice and read it over every few years, this pastoral view of WWII has its own draw.
You would think it would be about farming during the war, but more the healing effect of nature on those who must risk life to serve us.
The romantic aspect touches deeply a part of human nature many of us have experienced.
The idea that we fall in love at different times and some relationships are ruined before they even have a chance to begin.
This one has a chance to heal in a very hopeful way.
I gather no one reads Nevil Shute any more, which at first seems odd, given how obsessed we are with the Second World War as our national foundation myth. Maybe it's because myths are basically lies and these books are at times uncomfortably true. Anyway, bombing Germany, fishing, and falling in love: what more would you want from a novel?
I can't help myself, 5 Stars, Nevil Shute has never failed to deliver a great story. This one just makes you feel good.
There's a leisurely kind of narration that is kinda different from a lot of today's books.This is a story about a RAF pilot who falls in love with a WAAF Signal Officer who's stationed on the same base.
(view spoiler)[ After he asks her to marry him, she tells him she's not in love with him, and they should stop seeing each other.
And there are a couple of small, subtle things that Shute does with other characters that tug your heartstrings too.I listened to the audiobook narrated by Frank Muller on Scribd.
I loved this book.
Really lovely stuff, gently romantic whilst also (oddly?) deromanticising WWII and romance itself... A lot of complicated, messy emotions that probably don't quite sit right with our modern mores... but must have been just the ticket when it came out back in '44.
ტრაგედია ინგლისურად, ანუ რას ნიშნავს ჩაიში რძის არდამატება.
I don’t know that many Americans that stockpile Nevil Shute books like we do, but all you have to do to get a McGowan woman excited is say, “So…tell me about A Town Like Alice” and we just fall all over ourselves with enthusiasm.One of Shute’s lesser-known books is Pastoral, a lovely romance between a British bomber pilot and a W.A.A.F. officer (Women’s Auxiliary Air Force).
If there’s anything funnier than a badass pilot acting like a teenager who just got busted by his mom I don’t know what it is.There’s also not a lot of action – but when there is action, it’s absolutely terrifying.
I’m talking about a story with good characters with real emotions that you like.
Pastoral is a simple story of a Royal Air Force pilot that falls in love with a female officer on his base during the height of World War II.
The real battles are of the inner lives of the main characters – how can normal life work while the world is falling apart?Nevil Shute is quickly becoming a favorite author of mine.
For lesser writers that would mean no story, but Shute writes great tales where you like everyone.
This book should be a must read for fans of World War II aircraft.
Peter Marshall is a flight officer in the R.A.F. and Gervase Robertson is a signals officer in the W.A.A.F. during WWII.
Peter's work has him flying bomber missions over Germany.
Gervase's job is to record the progress of the aircraft as they report back to the base during those missions.
Felt as if I was right there in the setting and the time period.
The action of the flights is fast paced and pulls you right in.
I found myself pulling for crew on some of the more harrowing missions.
I think I would have rated this three stars but my infatuation with Frank Muller narrations bumped it up to a four.
An interesting love story, certainly.
Set in WWII England, a talented young bomber pilot falls in love with a WAAF officer.
The young woman rebuffs him, insisting that wartime duties take precedence over his embarrassing obsession.
Then he falls to pieces, endangering himself and his crew.
Uncomfortably, the young woman feels compelled to give her suitor a second chance, which she regards as nothing less than her patriotic duty, but which feels like emotional blackmail.
This was a pleasant enough read, but it loses a star due to the outdated gender attitudes. Given that it was written 70 years ago this shouldn't come as a surprise, but nevertheless it's not a book I'd encourage my daughters to read, at least not until they are old enough to snort in scorn at some of the motivations.
Well, as usual the gender politics are a little disturbing ("she began to understand the responsibility of being an attractive woman"--really??) but also as usual I couldn't put it down and found myself missing it once I finished. Pretty much your standard Nevil Shute experience.
I suppose in a way this was a bit silly, but I rather liked it.
He wants to show it off, but no one is much interested in seeing the amazing fish, except for a young WAAF, Section Officer Gervase Laura Robertson.
She likes the fish, and gets Peter to show her where he caught it.
Naturally, she and Peter begin to fall in love, especially after he takes her out one day to see a badger hole...or something.
As they would have said back in those days, "it's rather a lovely book".
Perhaps it's a bit like the Amish romances that appear to be all the rage these days.
Pastoral is very much this way, with this story about a British Wellington Bomber pilot and his everyday pastoral life around the air base, eventually finding himself falling much too quickly in love with a WAAF and how that plays out.
He has discovered a love of fishing so you get a LOT of that, but also the interactions and relationships with his own air crew and others.
I think a book like this would appeal to someone who has enjoyed "Foyle's War" on television.The disappointment for me here was how the pilot more or less shoved a relationship onto the WAAF signals officer.
Over the years I've read and listened to a number of his books--though never his most famous, On the Beach--and I'm not sure why this one came to mind, but as it's narrated by the inimitable Frank Muller, it was a good, if dated, listen.
Shute wrote many titles set during WWII (Pied Piper is another good one), and this is a charming romance about a pilot and the WAAF with whom he falls in love.
It's a gentle tale, as the title suggests, with some suspense and danger, and it shows off Shute's storytelling skills.
Otherwise, this was a good book, and reminded me a lot of the series Foyle's War. Nevil Shute is the author of A Town Like Alice, as well, and I really liked that one, so I grabbed Pastoral when it turned up on the community free books shelf.
I definitely recommend this book to anyone who enjoys romantic stories, WW2 historical fiction, books about flying and aircraft, or books by lesser-known classic authors.If you enjoyed A Town Like Alice, the TV series Foyle's War, or books by Antoine de Saint-Exupéry, you might like this book.
A real pleasure to read, and a reminder of just how young many of the RAF and WAAF members were during the war. This story lifts the veil of time to look back at a countryside airbase, and considers how the crews passed their time, and how delicate it was to build relationships whilst being aware of the operational responsibilities and dangers. There are some vivid sections in flight, and a very moving visit to an elderly widow to ask a favour. In many ways a long short story, but full of charm.
Great aviation storyThis is an awesome WW2 aviation story. It took a while to get used to the authors run on style of writing but it actually fitted well with the story as a reader you can’t stop because you want to know what happens next. The writing style gets a bit jumbled and more regular breaks in chapters would make the reading easier but the story itself was amazing. Loved the book in the end.
I’m a fan of Nevil Shute so I was sure I would like this book. I had some problems because I couldn’t quite understand the slang and military abbreviations used in the story. It was interesting as far as the bombing missions and the very proper behavior of the men and women of that era.
This book takes place in 1944; the protagonist is a young RAF pilot who falls in love with a WAAF signals operator at the bomber station. It gives insights into the midnight mission flights of the RAF, but the emphasis is on the love story.
მოთხრობა თევზაობაზე, ტყეში მოსეირნე წყვილზე და ომზე- ბრძოლის სცენების გარეშე.
Perfect little ww2 bomber pilot/waaf officer romance story.
Easy reading, boyísh angled, on the life as a RAF-pilot during WWII
A good mixture of romance and tense wartime flying action.https://piningforthewest.co.uk/2018/0...
An excellent novel. Very honest, and avoids the obvious (including a possible tragic ending). Superbly researched, utterly authentic, moving.
