https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/61550.The_Logic_of_Scientific_Discovery
If it was 400 pages shorter, I'd give it 5 stars. Popper makes his point quickly and emphatically on the merits of deductive reasoning versus inductive and its use in scientific research. Unfortunately, he continues to give examples to reiterate his point. Reading the first 50 pages is good enough. But, it's a good book for any and all graduate students in the scientific field to have on a bookshelf (particularly at the bench).
We do not know: we can only guess. Karl Popper originally wrote Logik der Forchung (The Logic of Research) in 1934. This original version—published in haste to secure an academic position and escape the threat of Nazism (Popper was of Jewish descent)—was heavily condensed at the publisher’s request; and because of this, and because it remained untranslated from the German, the book did not receive the attention it deserved. This had to wait until 1959, when Popper finally released a revised and
It does not make for the most graceful reading experience.This hardly matters, however, since it is here that Popper put forward what has arguably become the most famous concept in the philosophy of science: falsification.This term is widely used; but its original justification is not, I believe, widely understood.
This was how science was to proceed: from the specific to the general.This seemed all fine and dandy until, in 1738, David Hume published his Treatise of Human Nature, in which he explained his infamous ‘problem of induction.’ Here is the idea.
بدونِ فهمِ قوّتِ این نظریه هایِ علمی، موفقیت و پیشرفتِ علم را نخواهیم فهمیدکارل بر این موضوع پافشاری دارد که: هرگونه تحول و پیشرفت در علم، باید روشی را که به وسیلۀ آن کشفِ علمی و پیشرفت صورت گرفته را مهم قلمداد کردکارل قویاً معتقد است که رشد و پیشرفت در علم، با شکستِ انقلابیِ یک نظریه صورت گرفته است، یعنی جایگزینیِ یک نظریۀ علمی با یک نظریۀ علمیِ بهتر------------------------------------------------------------------------------دوستانِ خردگرا، وقتی به شما تعلیم میدهند، تا شما، تحتِ هیچ شرایطی، به دنبالِ کشفِ این جهان و کشفِ علت ها نروید، به حتم میخواهند چیزی به تو تحمیل کنند، که آن چیز، «ایمانِ دینی» نام دارد.
"I define the empirical content of a statement p as the class of its potential falsifiers. The logical content is defined, with the help of the concept of derivability, as the class of all non-tautological statements which are derivable from the statement in question. So the logical content of p is at least equal to that of a statement q, if q is derivable from p."If you liked that, you'll looooove this book!
Strictly to be confined within the realms of the scientific disciplines. But as far as other realms of human activity are concerned, the methodology espoused here is to be taken in caution.
This famous work has Popper explaining a methodology of science based on the falsification principle as opposed to the Vienna Circle's "verification principle".
It is a superior incite that in one stroke explains how hard sciences (which serves as its model) are done and at the same times solves the demarcation problem in distinguishing between whether a concept is scientific or not.
The falsification principle is a principle that a scientific theory sticks its neck out and shows ways it could be proven false through experiment.
The book seems to have been superseded by more recent philosophy but that is only because we stand on Popper's shoulders.
My thesis, which never got much beyond the notes stage, used Popper and other epistemologies to examine the difference between "natural" sciences and "social" sciences.
However, there is nothing about whether or not the theory of optics is correct that is a direct affront to anyone's ideological holdings.
But my thesis advisor thought I was straying pretty far from International Relations and I was finding there was too much more recent epistemology to be read to sustain my interest.I still think I'm right :-) but it doesn't really matter, does it?­
It's a brilliant book, although the English translation could have been better. Many fascinating ideas that will be useful even (or perhaps I should say especially) to social scientists. Someone above commented that Popper over-reiterates his criticism of inductive logic - but one has to remember that this book was written in a time when psychologism was dominating the discourse. And today, when all sorts of superstitions and general lack of critical thinking are rife in many disciplines as well as in the society, Popper's ideas are as relevant as ever.
If only I was clever enough to understand anything...
I volunteered to read this book in my PhD Doctoral Seminar because I thought my German language abilities would help me further understand Karl Popper.It didn't.Here's my review:Grappling with underlying ideas of how science is “discovered” and the underlying problems that exist with new knowledge?
A critical examination of the logic behind science is required for the “growth of scientific knowledge.”Popper’s book, published in the early 1930s, elicited a storm of controversy.
Beginning with the theories in use, he observes that the logical problems, often dismissed by assumption or by convention, should not and do not need to be handled in this way.
Overall, Popper's view of science describes an ideal scientific practice, whereby theories - motivated by WHATEVER source, be it rational belief or irrational flight of fancy - are devised, and crafted, in such a way that they meet the maximum criteria of universality, simplicity and testability (i.e. falsifiability).
Scientists, like other humans, will carry their irrational and self-serving practices, which motivate their quest for knowledge, and their desire to build metaphysical systems, all the way to the experimental stage; and only a strong community of peer pressure and external criticism can build sufficient safeguards against building theories that are impervious to refutation, or, which comes to the same thing, of being reluctant to accept studies that threaten one's cherished theories.
I would go so far as to say that you cannot understand a keystone in the philosophy of science without reading this work.This is not an easy book to read - it is a little mathematical here and there, and there is a lengthy section on probability that is frankly a lot of effort.
Popper explains very neatly how the falsifiability and therefore the scientific utility of a theory stem from the range of statements that it rules out.
Probability statements cannot be falsified by single experiments, but probability in theories is still falsifiable - so long as one cannot reliably predict a deviation from probabilistic behaviour!Ultimately, the value of such a piece of work must be seen historically, and Popper's doctrine is now orthodoxy.
چون با آرای بقیه فلاسفه علم چندان آشنا نیستم قسمتهایی از کتاب گنگ بود واسم. شاید بهتر میبود نظرات بقیه روشنتر بیان می شد. البته گویا کتاب ذیلی بر منطق اکتشاف علمی رو پوپر به همین منظور نوشته. بخش احتمالات کتاب رو هم به توصیه پوپر در پانوشت ناخوانده رها کردم. این کتاب رو بایستی بعدا دوباره بخونم البته این بار همراه با ذیلی بر منطق اکتشاف علمی.
This book requires slow reading and requires a solid grasp of scientific experimentation, methodologies and the logic of science.
If you don't, but have the interest and willingness to learn, it is a good book about the nature of scientific knowledge and its implications.
It proposes that no matter how many experiments you do, you can ever prove a theory.
However, an experiment, that can be reproduced, can actually disprove one.
I took a Philosophy of Science Couse in college that explained the key concepts in this book, without having to read this book, meaning that it runs longer and appears more complicated than was necessary.
While I disagree with some of his assertions-- especially his complete disavowal of inductive reasoning, and his general disregard for non-scientific knowledge-- I respect his method and, as a fellow empiricist, believe that his scientific (but definitely NOT his political) philosophy has made the world a better place, and paved the way for the pioneering efforts of Kuhn, Lakatos, and others.
My limited knowledge of quantum theory and probability, along with my complete lack of knowledge about the works of Bernoulli and others, made the latter half of the Logic of Scientific Discovery utterly impenetrable.
This is a difficult book.
Popper assumes a lot of knowledge in the reader regarding probability theory, quantum mechanics, and logic.
As such, the entire chapter on probability (the lengthiest chapter, if I recall) was beyond my grasp.
As was the chapter on quantum theory.
Regardless, Popper's demarcation criterion of falsifiability separating empirical science from metaphysics is monumentally important and deserves a special place in the philosophy of science.
I'm not sure if I'm convinced, however, of his complete rejection of induction, but his arguments are compelling (if, at times, difficult to follow.) All in all, this is definitely worth reading for anyone interested in the subject matter.
I've been wanting to read this since Dr. Steinhoff's Philosophy of Science class at USU turned me on to Popper and Feyerabend and the boys in the year 2000. The beginning and the end were amazing (5 stars), but I wasn't smart enough for the meat in the middle. I really like the idea of falsification. We would be better off if we all tried to disprove our ideas logically thus testing their strength instead of just holding our ground knowing we are right and God is on our side.
The Popular Popper series appears to be missing on the Goodreads database. I'll leave this link for the companion to the present work till such time as this is rectified-http://www.amazon.com/Scientific-Disc...I find this lecture by Popper a great introduction to his work in general-http://tannerlectures.utah.edu/_docum...
الفصول الاولى في الكتاب، جميلة وتسلط الضوء بشكل عمومي على فكرة الفيلسوف،،كارل بوبر ، لكن من القسم الثاني، يصبح الكتاب صعباً، و الأمثلة تخصصية في علوم الرياضيات والفيزيا،،..لغة الكتاب غير سلسة على الإطلاق، ولا أعرف هل المشكلة في الترجمة أم نفس الكتاب الأصلي
In other words, Popper defends that science starts only with universal claims - that is, with general theories that attempt to describe the world.
In fact, it might the case that the origin of scientific theories is purely metaphysical and psychological; that there is no justification to be found in the world of experience, and in induction, for how and why we create abstract theories.
Once falsifiability is added as an ingredient, metaphysics precipitates as a theory which can be put to test - science is born.It is completely unwise to attempt to eliminate philosophy from science.
the philosophy of science and the falsification theories by Karl Raimund Popper
We also read of its applicability in the 13th century via Robert Grosseteste, who used falsification to supplement Aristotle's approach to hypotheses, specifically to support his hypothesis about the generation of the sun's heat.Without denying the importance of Popper's book at the time it appeared, with the benefit of hindsight it seems to be a reminder to practising scientists of logical ideas that are now rarely a feature of a scientific education.
No singular statement (that is to say, no ‘basic statement’, no statement of an observed event) can contradict the existential statement, ‘There are white ravens’." (p.48)"The asymmetry here described, with its consequence, the one-sided falsifiability of the universal statements of empirical science, may now perhaps seem less dubious than it did before (in section 6).
2. As well as the idea about falsification that everyone knows about, Popper constructs a probability model which is made from the tools of modern logic to create an epistemology of science, its very complicated stuff and I only understood about 2% of it.3.
Popper should be understood in terms of the people he is responding to: JM Keynes and his work on probability, Carnap and his work on the structure of reality, Kant and Hume are very much in the background in Popper's theory of science.
It is a serious book discussing the philosophy of scientific experimentation, and is filled with formulas, Greek letters, and hundreds of pages of end notes.
Just to be clear: Einstein liked this book, so you need to be prepared for its complexity.
His core idea is that theories are only actual science when they can be subjected to falsifiable experiments.
Most of the content is only of interest to hardcore scientific philosophers, but it does have an impact on our lives and the news cycle.
For example, Popper says that the Theory of Evolution is not true science because it cannot be falsified.
A must read for logical thinkers and rationalists
It is too reminiscent of Bacon’s induction: too suggestive of his industrious gathering of the ‘countless grapes, ripe and in season’, from which he expected the wine of science to flow: of his myth of a scientific method that starts from observation and experiment and then proceeds to theories.
(This legendary method, by the way, still inspires some of the newer sciences which try to practice it because of the prevalent belief that it is the method of experimental physics.)The advance of science is not due to the fact that more and more perceptual experiences accumulate in the course of time.
The problem is that induction assumes that past processes stay the same in the future and that causality links two points of observation.
Causality cannot be established because the observation may be caused by factors out of our sight.Popper argues that inductive reasoning is unscientific.
The scientist should construct experiments that are most likely to disprove the theory.
Popper's ideas on scientific research dominate social science today.
However, Popper's concept leads to a narrow understanding of science and limits the amount of questions that can be asked.
In my own field of political science, this leads to the tendency to avoid normative questions and comprehensive theories.
In the end I skipped whole sections of the book that were going in one eye and out of the other.I read the book because I've had, since student days, an interest in the philosophy of science, and Popper is seminal.
This made the book disjointed for me - following an argument and worrying about whether I should read a footnote now or later, or wondering whether the argument I was trying to follow was about to be interrupted by a footnote telling me the argument was now wrong, were not conducive to easy reading.This footnoting of footnotes, this revisiting of arguments, was another reason I skipped the maths chapters.
More practically, the concern is that science is not about what doesn't work -- how can we hope to improve our knowledge of the world if we cannot confirm, or verify, scientific hypotheses?
Importantly, though, Popper views the cycle of conjecture and refutation as generative, as one that puts scientific hypotheses through a sort of optimization process in order to develop theories that, though ultimately incorrect, are the very best possible prototype of the truth: "Theories are nets cast to catch what we call 'the world': to rationalize, to explain, to master it.
We are in 1934, Popper is remembering us that when a scientist finishes writing down a theory the community starts a race to falsify the theory so to find progress.
In a sort of recursion, Popper starts with the hypothesis that a good theory is therefore a theory that can be falsified.
Guess what he does as soon he finishes writing down his theory?
Yes, he goes about trying to falsify it comparing with conflicting theories.
He is deeply influenced by quantum mechanics engaging in a long discussion around probability and logic to construct adventurous theories (his own definition).
