https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32895291-the-lying-game
*Unpopular opinion alert*: This book didn't work for me.The Lying Game is a slow burning psychological thriller about four friends who are bound together by lies.“A lie can outlast any truth.” When 15 year old Isa Wilde is sent to coastal boarding school, Salten, she quickly befriends Kate, Thea, and Fatima.
Kate, Isa, Thea and Fatima reunite, desperate to keep their secret under wraps.
It soon becomes apparent that one of them has broken perhaps the most pivotal rule: NEVER LIE TO EACH OTHER.Told from Isa’s perspective, the narrative switches back and forth between the past and present.
2.5 stars  Here, in this house the ghosts of our past are real Isabel, Kate, Fatima, and Thea were inseparable during their boarding school days.They had a game - a wild, hilarious and crazy game - that bonded these girls together. The biggest rule? Stick to your lie. A lie can outlast any truth. They awarded points based off of the most outrageous lie, who believed them and if they ever had to give up the truth. They were young, and wild, and free...until that night.Something happened  that nig
A lie can outlast any truth.
They awarded points based off of the most outrageous lie, who believed them and if they ever had to give up the truth.
They were young, and wild, and free...until that night.Something happened
I close my eyes, listening to the sound of the past, imagining myself back into the skin of the girl I once was, a girl whose friends were still around her, whose mistakes were ahead of her...
Church provides an excellent narration...but seems to use the same tone/inflection for every Ware novel she reads.
I really enjoyed Ruth Ware’s debut novel, In a Dark, Dark Wood, and was disappointed with the poor follow-up, last year’s The Woman in Cabin 10, so I hoped The Lying Game would be a return to form; it’s not.
The Lying Game is awful - looks like Ruth Ware is a one-hit wonder!
A menacing figure, Luc, is introduced but other than wondering whether or not he killed a sheep (another go-nowhere subplot), it’s not clear at all what his purpose is - his presence only makes sense with the final twist so up til then he feels like another superfluous addition to this overlong novel.
No, here the rawness is in the imagery, a true reader’s delight, because it pulled at the senses and plucked at our moral strings in unpredictable ways, in ways that were altogether unexpected when I picked up this novel.Here, the reader will peep behind the closed doors of a partially secluded English home at the edge of a reach, a place where the water laps at the very door of the home in high tide just as danger and uncertainty laps at their feet from the moment they receive Kate’s SOS text: I need you.
A story of female friendship, lies and deceit.This one had my heart pumping till the very end and I'm glad to see Ruth Ware delivering again.The book tells the story of four friends who met in a boarding school when they were teenagers.
The story is narrated by Isa Wilde, one of the four friends and alternates between the present and the past.
Also, the book is more character than plot-driven and is engaging, riveting, and chilling.Overall, I loved this book  ❤  and recommend it to all.Review posted on blog.FINAL NOTE: whenever I pictured the English boarding school then Hogwarts came to mind.
This is exactly what the author does, creating two time lines when something terrible happens that results in the four girls being expelled from their school, although this does not stop them from lying.
The narrative is delivered from Isa's perspective, filling us in on their past and what is now happening in the present.Isa rushes to Kate, and they are joined by Thea and Fatima, they are tense and disturbed at the possibility that the secret that they have kept for seventeen years is about to emerge.
Are their secrets from the past now set to emerge?
It’s the lying game.Rule one: Tell a lieFour young girls all sent by their parents to a boarding school for various issues.
Everyone has to stay on the same page – or it will all unravel!Rule three: Don’t get caughtYears later they’re all brought back to the small town near the boarding school, where their biggest lie is about to be exposed to all.
Is everything they’ve believed to be the truth since boarding school be a lie?Rule five: Know when to stop lying Now with families and careers in jeopardy, it’s time to re-evaluate the game.
Isabel, Kate, Fatima, and Thea became fast friends while attending Salten boarding school, as teenagers.
Isabel, Fatima and Thea all receive a text message from Kate-‘I need you.’This story is moody and atmospheric, with a heavy feeling of foreboding percolating in the background.
But, it’s especially brutal for Isabel, Kate, Thea, and Fatima, who have all lived with their lies, precariously balanced on a precipice, knowing their dark secret could be discovered at any moment.
When it looks like their worst fears are about to be realized, it forces them to polish up their lying skills once again… only this time, it’s not a game.
Traveling Sisters Review by NORMA and LINDSAY!!4.5 stars!Lindsay and I have both read all of Ruth Ware’s previous novels and agree that this was definitely our favourite one thus far!The book was divided into sections from the 5 rules of The Lying Game that the four friends participated in: TELL A LIE, STICK TO YOUR STORY, DON'T GET CAUGHT, NEVER LIE TO EACH OTHER, and KNOW WHEN TO STOP LYING.
We both really enjoyed the setting in this one, the game, all the drama within, and the strong connection that we felt to Isa was one of the main reasons that we both loved this book so much!
I'm now caught up on all of Ruth Ware's books!
She is one of my favorite writers, yet I'm still waiting to give one of her books a five star rating.
That's how talented she is as a writer, I'm willing to overlook her product output in favor of the gorgeous technical skill she possesses.The plot of THE LYING GAME is the weakest of Ware's three books.
She may very well be the next Agatha Christie, but I hope she comes up with a compelling plot to go with her first rate writing ability soon!
4.5 stars! This was my favourite Ruth Ware novel yet!! This suspenseful and secretive story had me hooked from the first page! I loved the characters, storyline and atmosphere. I had the pleasure of reading this one with Norma. It sparked a lot of great conversation along the way. I highly recommend!To find our full Traveling Sister Read Review, please visit Norma and Brenda's fabulous book blog at:https://twogirlslostinacouleereading....
After human remains are discovered, a group of women are summoned to their former stomping grounds by a mysterious message, hurriedly scribbled by the fourth member of their formerly tight quartet.
While Ruth Ware’s writing itself remains lovely, The Lying Game might be one of the dullest stories I’ve ever read.
And then follows the pages upon pages of school-day reminiscing, which yes this is partly a reunion story, but these women are allegedly in imminent danger.
The only person who’s at all developed is our protagonist, Isa. The remaining three women are one-dimensional tropes of the jock, cheerleader, bad girl variety.
Thea and Fatima, old friends from school, also received the same text from Kate and all three go to her.
Kate, Thea, Fatima and Isa become fast friends at Salten House.
Kate, Thea, Fatima and Isa had a game that they liked to play.
They were despised, thought to be liars.The rules of the game?:Rule 1: Tell a lie.Rule 2: Stick to your storyRule 3.
Never lie to each other.Rule 5.
This was a Traveling Sister Read with Brenda and Kaceey and all three of us had lots to say about this one.
I loved reading this novel with my Traveling Sisters: Brenda and Kaceey.
The Lying Game was a mixed bag for me, but on balance I quite liked it.
There's something dark, breathless and melodramatic -- almost gothic -- about how Isa tells her story that pervades the whole book.
I cringed at many of the decisions Isa and her friends made at 15 and that Isa makes in her early 30s, but I couldn't stop looking because she had me hooked and I wanted to see what happens next.
You wouldn't want to read The Lying Game looking for characters to like or side with.
But definitely don't read it if you're not into dark melodrama.
A slow-moving I Know What You Did Last Summer premise that does become twisty and intriguing around the halfway point. Unfortunately the characters are so disagreeable that the stakes never feel high. What? That horrible person is actually more horrible? Shocking! Will the stalker kill them all? I hope so! In the end it wasn't all bad, but I'm sure this is Ruth Ware's least impressive effort. Maybe try one of her other books instead?
3.75 Little-Liers StarsIsa, Kate, Fatima and Thea have met each other at a train station that its destination was Salten House (Somewhere like boarding school).
They think they know everything about that day but you know in these books nothing is that simple!My issue with this story was that it was really slow and just the last 40% of it was exciting.
Also, I didn’t like the way it ends (About Isa, not the whole story).
But the writing was great and that was the thing that I liked about this story and made me enjoy it!
It’s a standalone story.
I really enjoyed this author's previous novel, The Woman in Cabin 10 and was really looking forward to this one.This book did not work for me and I even had a hard time finishing it.
I didn't feel the connections between the four women characters and I found the plot to be predictable and without any thrills.I do think many people will enjoy this book with the girlfriends and their secret past that comes back to haunt them, but I figured the mystery out early.
I do like this author and of course I am looking forward to her next novel.
If you've read Ware's In a Dark, Dark Wood, then you'll recognise that the essence of the plot here is exactly the same: a group of girls were once close friends, something horrible happened, they went their separate ways and are brought back together again 17 years later; the horrible thing resurfaces, the truth is uncovered.
This supposedly tight-knit group turn out to have known each other for less than a year (they're 15 when they meet, haven't turned 16 when the horrible thing happens and they're separated, and despite not having seen each other for 17 years, when one of them texts the others they instantly drop London jobs, family, life to meet up - heck, my friends can't even co-ordinate drinks in the pub without military-style planning!
In the aftermath, an urgent text goes out from one woman to her three friends, saying only: "I need you." And they come running.Kate, Thea, Fatima and Isa first met at Salten House, a boarding school for girls, when they were fifteen.
Kate and Thea had created a 'lying game' with rules and points and all four girls played along: Rule 1: Tell a lie.Rule 2: Stick to your storyRule 3.
Then one night, Ambrose disappeared and embarrassing drawings of the girls reached the hands of the school administrators.
I think of all the lies I have repeated and repeated over the years, until they became so engrained they felt like the truth: I left because I wanted a change. I don’t know what happened to him; he just disappeared. I did nothing wrong. Can you imagine something you did as a teenager coming back to haunt you seventeen years later? You even stopped hanging out with your best friends, but all it takes is a text, I need you, to drag you back in.Four girls (Isa, Kate, Fatima, & Thea) became fri
You even stopped hanging out with your best friends, but all it takes is a text, I need you, to drag you back in.Four girls (Isa, Kate, Fatima, & Thea) became friends at Salten House, a coastal boarding school.
The girls get expelled in their final year of school around the same time Kate's father, the art master, goes missing.That’s the trouble with having a “click” as Mary Wren might call it.
The Lying Game is more of a character-driven mystery than Ruth Ware's previous novels.
The number one rule of the game however is that they never lie to each other.During the next few hundred pages we follow what happens as the young women rejoin their friend Kate at her home in a coastal village with a great estuary called “The Reach”; the boarding school is located within walking distance of Kate’s home.
I wish that I had gotten to know a bit more about Fatima and Thea as they sounded like interesting and unique charaters.Ambrose was the girls art teacher at school and is also Kate’s father.
That is the central mystery of The Lying Game that gets played out over 400 pages.
The game they've created about lying is a good conceit.
It's as if the plot takes a backseat to the women playing subtle mind games or having conversations that don't really lead anywhere.
Throughout the middle, the women are haunted by an unexplained past, which is Ware's attempt to keep some dramatic tension where there really is very little; there's more character study than plot.
Toward the end of the novel, the plot picks back up and the secret is revealed as are some unexpected twists in the story.
I don't go to Ware's books for mindblowing mysteries because that's just not her strength, and again, The Lying Game was true to that.
It's definitely the quietest and most straightforward of her mysteries.This book met my expectations and delivered what I wanted, but it is still my least favorite of her books so far because the structure I had loved about Woman in Cabin 10 and In A Dark, Dark Wood was lacking in this.
To me, this book didn't set itself apart from the genre, and didn't improve upon Ware's previous novels.
But like I said, I still really enjoyed that gripping reading experience and I will be waiting for her next novel.
The Lying Game:**4.5-stars**When Isa Wilde receives a text from her old boarding school friend, Kate, that states, 'I need you', she packs her bag, her infant daughter, kisses her husband goodbye and boards a train.
A dark secret that they have been holding for many years, but as we all know, secrets very seldom stay buried forever.I have previously read two of Ware's other books, The Woman in Cabin 10 and The Death of Mrs. Westaway.
I think basically it boils down to the fact that boarding school stories are my jam.
I love boarding schools, I love mean girls (fictionally) and I love secrets that just won't stay secret.
I really wish I loved Ruth Ware books but sadly I don't.
I will say this is my favorite of hers that I have read.
I really resonated with the main character and loved the setting of the book but that's where my love stops.I want her characters to be fleshed out more and the mystery to be a little bit more compelling.
I do enjoy Ware's writing alot, and will probably keep reading her books for that reason.
Her writing draws you in, that is for sure.
The main problem I have with her books is the overall mystery and characters.Overall 3/5
This is one of those thrillers that is more like a flower unfolding than a tense whodunnit.
In fact, I was pretty sure who did do it early on, but for me, that wasn't the point.
It's the character studies above all that form the focus of the novel.
Amongst them, Salten itself, that bleak place on the periphery where all things are possible.
Interwoven here are the sun bright, happy memories of the past and the sinking dark of the present day.
Add to that an unbelievably believable story, relentless suspense, an experienced wordsmith, and we've got a brilliant book.Kate AtagonFatima Chaudhry(née Qureshy) Thea West Isa WildeFour fifteen year-old girls attended Salten boarding school for girls.
The neverending suspense was a killer!When I finally got the nerve up again to go back to the story, I rolled myself up in a thick blanket in my room, while a cold snowy wind started freezing up the world outside.
Another homerun from an author that is quickly becoming synonymous with the term "riveting thriller." It had an air of suspense mixed with sadness that felt reminiscent of George Eliot's " The Mill on the Floss." I now know that I can hold my breath for 422 pages!
It was so boring, there was zero thriller and hardly any mysteryI started reading this some months ago but I am a mood reader (mostly fantasy moods) so I kept dropping it then one day, I decided to just focus on reading this especially since I hardly read contemporary books.
It was just so repetitive with 'we did something bad 15 years ago...' The flashbacks were also boring because the author beat around the bush for too long- The reveals were weak and obvious and I am not sure why the girls didn't put two and two together based on what they knew or at-least question their assumptions.
It just felt like something bad was going to happen.
The setting is a character in itself with its isolation, dereliction, and dreariness.
And the plot unravels subtly and has just the right amount of drama and a past/present style that reveals all the actions, motivations, personalities and relationships within itThis is ultimately an intriguing, atmospheric novel with little action but enough twists and suspense to be unputdownable.Thank you to Simon & Schuster Canada for providing me with a copy in exchange for an honest review.All my reviews can be found on my blog at http://whatsbetterthanbooks.com
