https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6201699-a-diamond-guitar

A story set in prison, where friends meet and part. it was quite enjoyable, making you sympathetic to the main character, but the transformation in the characters attitude was quite sudden and not explained enough.
If I didn't especially liked a house of flowers by the same author, too cheesy perhaps, this short story felt just right. Just an anecdote lost in time, a character that we will never see again but it does its job. Setting an atmosphere of boredom, longing, and a loveable character. A great discovery.
The moral of this story is what? Don't go to prison? Be careful who you befriend in prison? Or maybe it is just if your name is Truman Capote you can get anything published, even a 16 page short story that while it is well written word wise, it really isn't anything special. But at least there were no whores or prostitutes in this one.
A short story about convicts who perform manual labor. The day a new convict Tico Feo is brought in, everyone's life is changed especially Mr. Schaeffer. Tico comes in with a diamond guitar and entertains everyone with music. A great read.
When I finished this book, the first thing I wondered was what was the purpose. The book has alluring figurative language and pretty good character development for a short story. But no matter what, I could not piece together the purpose. The story has the main character meet another one with the titular object and then he just leaves. It is all very abrupt. The story just ends.
This depressing short story, although better than House of Flowers, gave me the same thoughts that I have had on every other Capote book/short story that I have read: nothing really stands out to me and it seems average in quality.
Just don’t think I’m much a fan of this author. Obviously, this is a short story, but no background info on the characters to explain why one (Tico) would be manipulative and take advantage of someone who supported and loved him. Just meh for me.
I loved this! It was very cute and I wished it was longer! The only reason why I gave it 4 and not 5, is because it's so rushed and because of that, the plot kind of has some holes.
Despite its length, The Diamond Guitar was a good short story. I especially enjoyed the "you don't know what you got until it's gone" theme. In a way, I think that Tico Feo represents the world outside the prison. Mr. Schaeffer was content with his life in the prison, but Tico Feo brought back in him the reality of the outside with his spirit and his diamond guitar, so much so that Mr. Schaeffer attempts to escape at great personal risk. However, in the end, the outside world--rather, Tico Feo--deserts him and is disloyal.
I like the simple style of Capote's writing. He manages to say so much with so few words and has beautiful descriptions that do not drag on. A depressing but touching short story about the life of a prisoner written in a simple but memorable style. I am really enjoying Capote's short stories and admire his skill! Writing a good short story is not easy.
Again, read this in the back of my copy of Breakfast at Tiffany's.Truman's style of writing is so vivid. It's light and airy and he doesn't dwell or lag in too many descriptions. Admittedly, prison stories aren't my Forté, but I can appreciate his writing, at least.
i cried
“The stars were his pleasure, but tonight they did not comfort him; they did not make him remember that what happens to us on Earth is lost in the endless shine of eternity.
Gazing at them-the stars-he thought of the jeweled guitar and it’s worldly glitter...
it was as though Tico Feo, tuning his guitar that last morning, had put a curse upon it.
Now it lies under Mr Schaefer’s cot, where its glass diamonds are turning yellow; in the night his hand sometimes searches it out, and his fingers drift across the strings: then, the world.”Capote writes a lot of stories about falling in love with wild things, which inevitably tend to leave.
When you allow yourself to be used in friendship, it displays a special kind of selflessness that is not praiseworthy. This story teaches a very important lesson on self-respect and limits of unconditional love.
Quick short story in the Breakfast at Tiffany’s book. I actually enjoyed this story more than Breakfast.
Capote is really a master of "lost time" and putting so much regret into his work. This short story was to the point, and contained a lot of interesting emotions
All I can say is what an odd little story. A bit sad for me actually despite such good reviews.
Great !!!
A fulfilling short story of dashed hope and resignation, told in a simple but stirring way.
Don't know what was going on in this one . . .
All I can think is: "okay…… so?"
From my point of view, it is not exceptional.I like Truman Capote's writing style, but this short story felt like it was there just to fill up some more pages.
Blah I'm bored
I thoroughly enjoyed this short story....until the end. I wasn't sure if the whiplash from the abrupt shift in characters disposition was something that would grow on me or not. Alas, it hasn't. I wish I had more on the that shift, and extra morsel or two would've been perfect.
Maybe its just because i find short stories difficult to get into, what with the characters often not being very well detailed, or maybe its because im sleepy, either way i didnt get into this book and hardly knew even what was going on.
As ever the writing style is fabulous, musical, and a real and true treat to read (id love to hear it read out loud).
And there are areas in the story which even when youre reading from your own little world you get drawn back to the story.
I thought finally that the story ended very curiously.
I didnt read close enough for a well rounded review.
More love for Capote! What a touching story, again with Capote's deceptively simple language with which he paints such vibrant pictures. I'm reminded of  Male Affection: A Photographic History Tour. What amazing images! I'd love to see more of this type of affection portrayed in modern culture, beyond the current acceptable style of camaraderie shared by athletes, soldiers, and frat boys. As for Capote, his little windows into facets of the human experience continue to amaze and delight.
Another Capote short story discovered only because it was at the back of Breakfast at Tiffany's. The story of two convicts at a manual labour camp who form a bond, eventually making plans to escape. In this book, Capote paints beautifully vivid pictures of life in this camp and of Mr Schaeffer and Tico Feo's friendship. And the more I read of Capote, the more I want to discover...
Surprisingly, this is probably the best thing I've read by him, though I hadn't ever heard of it before. He's got a beautifully simplistic rhythm to his writing, which is entirely accessible. It was a very original tale as far as I can tell. This makes me want to delve into more of Capote's writing.
Another story in the back of Breakfast at Tiffany's - another good example of the diversity of Capote's writing, but just not the sort of tale that gets me immersed and unable to tear myself away. Mind you I've never really been one for short stories. Interesting characters though..
