https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/80534.Me_Emma
What can I say what an absorbing read this was I loved tis book Me & Emma by Elizabeth Flock was a well written novel that dealt with a delicate subject of child abuse & was delicately handled.
The story was told by Caroline's POV which I found interesting for a child to tell the story & the maturity she showed.Caroline & Emma were sisters, living a horrid life with their mother Libby Parker & her husband Richard who was a wife beater they coped with their life as best as they could but one day Caroline 8 & Emma 6 decided to get a job at Mr Whites store to get away for a while.
Caroline attempts to protect herself and her younger sister by escaping into the world of her imagination, but she cannot protect herself when her own survival instinct bursts forward with tragic results.This book was reminiscent of The Glass Castle in that it was about the abuse of children.
For me, however, Me & Emma is more emotional than The Glass Castle because it is told from the point of view of an 8-year-old and not with the removed objectivity of a grown-up.
With Emma, it is a story with a crazy, Hollywood-esque ending.An example of a well-done twist is in the movie Sixth Sense.
Both story lines are wrapped completely around the fact that he is dead himself.Also, the tone of the book was too serious and realistic to end with a literary device.
The only thing the abuse accomplished is that I really hated Richard by the end.
It’s like there are two different stories, the abuse story, that had no redeeming point at the end, and the schizo story that didn’t have anything to do with the rest of the book.
Carrie and Emma are sisters, ages eight and six, who have suffered a great deal of tragedy and loss in their young lives. Their father was brutally murdered and their mother retreated into her bedroom until meeting their step-father who was a horrible man. In fact both parents were horrible which made this a very sad read but even so, it was a good story. Four stars.
In the tradition of Ellen Foster, and Bastard Out of Carolina, the 8 year old narrator's guileless voice grabbed me from page 1 and never let go--hence the rating of 5. I know this one is going to haunt me. A tragic, heartbreaking read--there are parts I found sickening and hard to keep reading. But, I couldn't bear to not know what happened to Carrie and Emma.
The tales of abuse chronicled in Me & Emma prompted me to close the book and take a "break" from it many times.Though I thought I knew what the ending would be, and dreaded it for most of the book, I was thrown for a loop.
It was the type of ending I had to read twice (and yes, i cried just as much the second time).
I could not put this down. Extremely well-written and engaging, although emotionally manipulative. Some scenes are unbearably heartrending. There is a surprise finish that will make you want to immediately re-read the book. Heartily recommended, but not for the faint of heart..
8 year old Carrie and her younger sister Emma are abused by their stepfather and their mother (also abused by him) does nothing to help them.
The abuse in this book is brutal and at times made it hard to read but Carrie is a compelling character and her life in a small town in North Carolina town draws you in and keeps you reading.
I grew to care greatly about her and Emma.The book was a good though not great read with enough suspense to carry you through the painful details of Carrie's life.
This story is told from the point of view of an abused and all but abandoned 8 year old girl named Caroline (Carrie) who is in a desperate family situation.
Emma, the tough-as-nails younger sister, and Richard, the wicked stepfather, join with Carrie's mother, herself a victim of spousal abuse, and together the family moves to a new town, away from their haunting roots, only to set up in an area where the main attraction for the older folks is playing a banjo in the back of a general store and perfecting their shotgun technique on tin cans.
This was a "2005 Highlights" recommended book from the Independent Bookseller List (I have liked several from this list including The History of Love, Banishing Verona, Any Bitter Thing, and A Complicated Kindness)...
I would give it 2 1/2 stars.
Several things bothered me.
It seemed like a slightly cliched version of a "typical" poverty-stricken little girl getting abused by her stepfather while uttering adorable southern phrases.
With that said, this one DID have a twist at the end, which saved the book for me.
This book is very well-written, though it's terribly sad. As a therapist, I had the end figured out in the first 20 pages, so in that regard, I felt like it was predictable. Having worked so long with abused children, there was nothing surprising about Carrie/Emma killing Richard or the fact that Emma is real to Carrie, even after the murder.
Let me state it: Me & Emma is about child abuse.
So that's not like I couldn't stand any book dealing with child abuse, I just loathe this one.I didn't like to read about Carrie and Emma, about what they had to put up with, for me it was a horrific experience and I skimmed almost whole second half, I just read the end, which was really surprising.
I can tell you I would love the twist if I wasn't bored of my mind till I got there.
I was sometimes slightly disgusted or scared yet mostly only bored.
Excellent with an unexpected twist at the end. I couldn't put it down.
Imagine it kind of like watching Schindler’s List, but Schindler doesn’t do anything good, so there’s real no positive feeling you leave with.So I think where the story loses me some is that I don’t feel the ending really rewarded the agony of the journey, if that makes sense.
Of course I haven’t read the next book, so my view is somewhat limited, but judging just from this book… I don’t know… I’m kinda disappointed.So, I could rate it anywhere from two to four stars.
Sisters suffer abuseWhy this book?
Recommended by friendWhich book format?
Target Book ClubIdentify most with?
Kibbles n BitsThey say you cain’t judge a book by its cover.
Carrie is sweet and liked and Emma is stronger and has seen harder times than her sister even though she is 2 years younger.
Her mother is abused, Carrie and Emma are abused, and yet there is something off...
There was a part of me that wanted to reach into the pages and save them and another part of me that wanted to shake some sense into her mother and the other neighbors who stood by and continued to return her to her family and into the mouth of the wolf.
What I did not like about the ending was that I could not tell if her mother knew about the sexual abuse or if the sexual abuse ever was revealed.
It was hard not to like these little girls because of their circumstances that were just downright immoral an degrading.
It was particularly interesting to me reading it with a younger sister close in age like Emma and Carrie were.
At times I related with both girls, but felt more inline with Emma, the younger sister--something I didn't quite understand until the very end of the book.
Although the message is a little hard to bring into your own life like other books might be, it still stays with you after you've finished it.
Elizabeth Flock has chosen to represent her book with the voice of 8 year old Carrie.
This child is the big sister/ protector of 6 year old, Emma.
Their beloved father died, leaving their mother unable to cope either physically or mentally.
After she enters into a "marriage of convenience", the family slides into a morass of abuse, hunger, neglect and physical and emotional deprivation.Flock has expertly addressed the many issues in this novel from the perspective of these children.
However, as the tension built toward the conclusion, it became quite clear that this was an effective manner of approaching the multitude of difficulties for this family.
From cover to cover I loved this book! It has an amazing ending that will stop you in your tracks. I HIGHLY recommend this novel and it is in my top books of ALL TIME!!!!
Het einde van het boek had ik totaal niet verwacht en jeetje wat was dit even verwarrend als alles boven water komt.
In particular, Bermuda, where she believes it's "too pretty for anything to be wrong, and I bet they even have a law that would keep people like Richard out altogether."As the story unfolds, Carrie devises ways to escape the reality of her home life, from an aborted runaway attempt that has dire consequences to hiding behind the living room couch.
The bottles clank so loud I think my head'll split in two."The narrative alternates scenes from the past --- dominated by Carrie's memories of her father --- with events in the present, making the difference between the two all the more heartbreaking.
It is both scary and comforting how far the human mind will go to protect itself.As the older sister, Carrie felt it her duty to look after her baby sister, Emma.
Emma was the one who saw their Daddy died, the one Momma didn't like, the one who pushed her out of the room to save her from their brutal stepfather, Richard, and the one she can always talk to and seek for comfort.Me and Emma is one of the most heartbreaking books I've ever read.
The second reading gave me the goosebumps still.In the end, Carrie will not give up Emma that easily.
Narrated by the unreliable eight-year-old Carrie, Me & Emma is a truly heartbreaking story of sisters who are shaped by tragic events. This is not an easy book to read because of the content, but Flock does an excellent job drawing the reader in and pulling at your heartstrings. Me & Emma is a worthwhile read for anyone who works with children who have experienced trauma.
The family is clearly very poor and the stepfather brings home what little money there is, which is what drives their mother to remain with him, having lost the girls' father to murder when their home was robbed.
Emma seems to have the best idea, often remaining silent or disappearing when times get the worst.The back of the book indicates a big event that changes everything, so I kept reading in anticipation, but it's very late in the book when it occurs, and the last chapter makes readers question the whole rest of the book.
"Me and Emma" was a page-turner that I blew through pretty quickly because I wanted to see what would happen, where "Bastard" and "Ellen" are more character-driven books where a reader can just revel in the beauty of the language alone, regardless of plot development.
"Me and Emma" was pretty good; Carrie sounded like a real authentic child, and I enjoyed the kinder-hearted characters she met along the way.
The ending was totally unexpected, which was great, but it also felt way too sudden...I would have liked to see a little more of Carrie and her mother after the plot twists, since they definitely changed everything.
The story is told in the voice of 8 year old Caroline (Carrie).
Carrie tells us about her and her sister Emma, their hardships and their abuse at the hands of their stepfather.
The author does a wonderful job in not being too graphic especially since this is told through Carrie's eyes.
My heart was broken in quite a few places while reading this.
I rooted for Carrie and Emma all the way.
I had to go back a few pages and re-read them, thinking I must have misread something.
I'll be looking for more books by this author.
This was definitly a page turner for me. I did not expect the twist at the end and I really just thought this would be another sad story about sisters with an abusive step-father. Looking back through the book I did see some foreshadowing in regards to Emma's real identity and I felt that the author did a great job making it very discreet. I would read this again to get the full picture of the book after knowing the end of the story. Great read!
Ok this book is heartbreaking. I need to read some happier books. Once you start you won't stop but it was disturbing especially because I am a mother of three girls. I wanted to go into the story and make things right for Emma and Caroline. If you tolerated Room by Emma Donahue you will be able to read this.
At times this was hard to relate to and just a touch weird, but most of the time it was surprisingly engaging and quite a page turner. GREAT unexpected ending.
♥♥♥♥♥♥
