https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40795.Turtle_Island
My Favorite collection of Snyder's poetry.For AllGary SnyderAh to be aliveon a mid-September mornfording a streambarefoot, pants rolled up,holding boots, pack on,sunshine, ice in the shallows,northern rockies.Rustle and shimmer of icy creek watersstones turn underfoot, small and hard as toescold nose drippingsinging insidecreek music, heart music,smell of sun on gravel.I pledge allegianceI pledge allegiance to the soilof Turtle Island,and to the beings who thereon dwellone ecosystemin diversityunder the sunWith joyful interpenetration for all.
Sometimes I think I like the idea of Gary Snyder as poet more than I enjoy reading the actual poetry.
In his final (prose) part to Turtle Island, in the piece titled "Wilderness", Snyder writes:"The reason I am here is because I wish to bring a voice from the wilderness, my constituency.
I wish to be a spokesman for a realm that is not usually represented either in intellectual chambers or in the chambers of government." With that in mind, his poems are to be cherished.Coming back to this, three years later, I'm struck by the prose piece, "Four Changes": written in 1974, it reads like a page from the current pleas/warnings concerning climate change.
I should have read Gary Snyder a long, long time before reading Ginsberg, Bukowski, Burroughs, Kerouac, Tom Wolfe...I'd guess there were a lot of other writers working during that time.
I'd recommend almost anyone besides the names you most commonly hear in association with the Beat movement, in order to study the beats- it helps to know what they were writing against.Fresh air has a value you can not quantify.Sunlight has a warmth you can not explain.wind has a strength you can not identify.Snyder knows all of these things...Burroughs, Kerouac, Ginsberg...I don't know.I thought, after re-reading this, I would add a rebuttal to my rebuttal, from Wikipedia:Several literary critics treated Burroughs's work harshly.
Am revisiting Gary Snyder's poetry, the subject of my bachelors thesis, during subway rides. This book especially was so formative for me. Reading it is like praying.
2.5 stars.
More to come later.
The low rating does not mean I disliked all the poems.
There were a few superb poems in this collection that I definitely connected with.
Snyder definitely has talent; at his best, his verse has a gorgeous simplicity.Unfortunately, too many of the poems in this collection serve merely as a vehicle for imparting political information.
I have nothing against political poetry in general ...
The problem in Snyder's case is that several of the poems feel like non-fiction nuggets with randomly added line breaks.
That's not the sort of poetry I prefer, hence the rating.
Gary Snyder is the man.
Gary Snyder’s Turtle Island an exceptional book of poetry that is filled with fabulous images of nature that only a poet the quality of Snyder could pull off. He blends his Earthly imagery with his straightforward writing style to tell the truth in a way that seems to get the point across harder that a sledgehammer yet it sounds as beautiful as a sunrise on the beach. I mean not only does Snyder deliver incredible verse after incredible verse in the book but the title on the book also stands fo
Gary Snyder’s Turtle Island an exceptional book of poetry that is filled with fabulous images of nature that only a poet the quality of Snyder could pull off.
Interestingly enough, and I don’t think by accident, the poem that illustrates this most is towards the end of the book and entitled “For The Children.” In this poem Snyder states "To climb these coming crests / one word to you to / you and your children: / stay together / learn the flowers / go light," which I think is a very positive and uplifting image and also a very powerful statement.
A few years after “Turtle Island” won the Pulitzer Prize in 1975, I had the pleasure of hearing Gary Snyder read from it at a fundraiser for a Santa Cruz alternative high school.
It’s particularly evocative when read aloud and listened to lightly, enjoying the imagery without trying to grasp every detail.There’s a lot about nature, some political activism, a bit of alternative family lifestyle, and a much good thought in this volume.
I Went into the Maverick BarBY GARY SNYDERI went into the Maverick Bar In Farmington, New Mexico.And drank double shots of bourbon backed with beer.My long hair was tucked up under a capI’d left the earring in the car.Two cowboys did horseplay by the pool tables,A waitress asked us where are you from?a country-and-western band began to play “We don’t smoke Marijuana in Muskokie” And with the next song, a couple began to dance.They held each other like in High School dances  in the fifties;I recalled when I worked in the woods and the bars of Madras, Oregon.
I had heard that Gary Snyder was a great poet and he was one of the healthiest of the Beats, a lifelong devout lover of the Great Spirit and one of the main subjects of Kerouac's "The Dharma Bums", one of Jack's best books.
This looks to be one of the most virtuosic books of poetry I've read since Raymond Carver or Snyder's pals Kerouac & Ginsberg.
This kind of poetry is why the form is amazing - when it's done like Snyder does it here, it's visionary, cosmic, and life-altering - rich with wisdom, compassion, and towering beauty.More of this review to come when I finish the book.
Up hereout backdrink deepthat black light.
Snyder's collection, which won the Pulitzer for Poetry in 1975, is a celebration of nature and a call for humans to live with their environment as stewards rather than as exploiters.
It feels like the last gasp of hippie idealism--and, perhaps, hypocrisy--before the explosion of Me Generation excess in the 70s and 80s.
I would say that Snyder's poetry could be a beacon or roadmap for this generation, but it seems more like a head-in-the-clouds dream of a lost cause.
But the essays at the end of the collection only work to highlight precisely why these poems today feel like a shout into the void rather than a clarion call to action.
This 1975 book of poems (with a little "straight talk" in prose at the end) won a Pulitzer and has, heaven forbid, Historical Significance as an authentically North American work of art. The caucasian author assembles an authentic convergence of native American and American Zen spirituality with the emerging ecological awareness of its time. Every page roars with passion for the planet, all of her flora and fauna, and certainly for her human children.
This is the edition to own, but hard to find now that it is out of print. I love taking this book with me backpacking because it fits in a cargo pocket and reads well on the trail. This is a lovely collection of insightful poems by Gary Snyder written around the time of the birth of the modern environmental movement. I harrows warnings of the trappings of modern culture, sings songs of the ancients and expresses his undying affection for his family and the land.
One of my all-time favorite poetry collections; I can't believe I'm just now adding it to my shelf. I used to read Snyder all the time in high school and college. Sometimes I thought he would persuade me to become a conservationist for a living, but instead I suppose he was one of the voices that persuaded me to be a writer.
All these years and I hadn't read this one until now. I like it not only from an "eco-poetry" angle, but also to look back on the 30+ years since it was written and consider what effect it has had on the American environmentalist movement--and on poets who have come (and gone) after Snyder. I recognize his style in other poets--definitely a huge influence.
Every time I read something by Gary Snyder, I want to run out and read more, prose or poetry. His essays and his poems have an earthy transcendence - a combination of insight and common sense. He makes you wonder why it's so hard for us to live as we should.
Another great collection from a Beat Poet. Snyder was the only beat to get into environmental issues and the natural world, he was also into Asian philosophy, by way of Kenneth Rexroth. Great stuff, particularly "For All", one of my all-time favorites.
this collection of hippie/beat eco-poetry (plus a manifesto about saving the earth the end) was exactly what i needed to read ... this won the pultizer in 1975 but is still incredibly relevant. especially the one about the avocado. haha.
Words of wisdom had yet to see such clarity.
Gary Snyder is the inspiration for Japhy Ryder in The Dharma Bums. More importantly, he is a talented poet as demonstrated through this book.
To me, this is Snyder's masterpiece.
my trip to oregon last month made this book even shinier. great teaching tool, too.
This book epitomizes why Gary Snyder is one of my favorite poets. This book makes me so happy. I honestly feel like a better person for knowing Snyder's work. I wish I could meet him...
loved the mushroom poem and also turtle island. amazing that so much of this is so relevant today.
Fabulous, fantastic, fascinating, fine! My heart soars!
Snyder is my favorite poet. Turtle Island sort of sets the stage for his other works for me. Classic.
Moving. I was somewhat turned off by the mysticism, but appreciate Snyder's sentiment. The poetry is beautiful, and it makes this son of the city seek a closer relationship with earth.
i've sold my soul to gary snyder
:')
