https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1060841.Sheba
A friend gave me a box of books to read and pass on.
The only book in the box I had not read was “Sheba” by Jack Higgins.
I have read a number of Higgins’ books and have enjoyed them.
Higgins is a British writer.The book is about Nazis, an archeologist and the Suez Canal.
The book is well written and fast paced.
The first part of the book has more description and a great build up to the second half which has lots of action and suspense.
The book was originally published in 1994 and is 272 pages.
One of my favorite novels in this genre is Jack Higgins The Eagle Has Landed, the classic story of a Nazi attempt to kidnap British Prime Minister Winston Churchill.In Sheba, Higgins returns to the WWII thriller in this story about a Nazi attempt to destroy Britain's life line to its eastern colonies, the Suez Canal, on the first day of the war.
Kane is hired by an English heiress to find her husband, a British archeologist who went missing in his own for Sheba's temple.
I really didn't like this book and couldn't finish it. It was a cross between Raiders of the Lost Ark, The Maltese Falcon and Casablanca. Unfortunately, the characters were all pretty one-dimensional and adhered close to stereotype. I'll try more of his novels as I know he is highly regarded, but this was just not for me.
Excellent adventure that becomes addictive as the plot unfolds. Set in the context of WW2 gives some credibility to the events. If you like archaeology you will enjoy it.Not as fast paced as Raiders of the lost ark but along the similar lines. Main character has a good morals. Nothing seedy.Recommend it for younger boys.
During WW II the lost temple of Sheba is found by a German archaeologist but Hitler has other plans for this discovery to help win the war. A US archaeologist vanishes when visiting the area and his wife hires a boat captain who is also an archaeologist to find her husband. The trail is filled with danger and many times were their lives threatened. It is a fast paced book, a bit hard to put down. Just when it all seems hopeless it all comes to an exciting and satisfying conclusion.
Well this read like a screen script for a Humphrey Bogart movie. WWII movie where Germans are plotting to blowup the Sues canal. Our hero along with a beautiful local girl spoil the plot and our hero rides off On a camel with the beautiful native girl. The end .This was a mediocre read gave it three stars
This plot is set during the second world war with Hitler, the Fuhrer planning to attack Poland.
In order to prevent the English to help Poland, the Fuhrer plans to attack the Suez Canal.
Hans Ritter device a plan to bomb the Suez Canal using Catalina with the base camp at the temple of Sheba.
On the other hand, Ruth Cunnningham comes to Dahrein in search of her husband, who left home in trail of the Sheba's temple.
Ruth seeks the help of Kane and from there the story takes an interesting twists and turns.
An okay WWII thriller about an archeologist caught up with Nazi spies plotting to disrupt the Suez Canal from a desert in the Middle East. It is amazing how many times the hero gets left with no water in the desert and survives. Apparently one should never underestimate an archeologist.
Good, but not his best.This was written e n before Higgins hit his stride with Charles Ferguson , Sawn Dillon and others. Slow in developing but plenty of the action scenes Higgins is known for.
Fascinating tale that ties antiquities with a great storyAmazing story line with multiple twists I didn’t see until they were on me. Kane is quite a explorer and surpasses all you can ever imagine before getting caught again.......
Higgins ShebaI kept forgetting who the author was as I read. The storytelling was as good as the Sean Dillon books but fresh and new.
"তেমন ভালো লাগে নাই" - এইটাই রিভিউ!
Cerebral chewing gum.
Felt like just another Raiders of the Lost Ark.I don't know what the chronology is, but it's a "type" that to me has been done many times, and sometimes better.
Not his bestVery disjointed, and difficult to get into. Strange plot, weak characters. Quick read though, so the pain ends fairly quickly.
Easy read. Would have liked to have more info on Sheba and the places & culture of the people described in the novel.
In 1939, American archaeologist and part-time smuggler Gavin Kane is hired by a beautiful woman, Miss Cumingham to find her missing husband, who embarked on an expedition to discover the legendary Temple of Sheba.
Nazi group working with Muller archeologist german as their front in Yemen/Saudi Arabi area.
Kane's previous marriage has put him off woman but he is falling for local trader who inherited her father empire name Marie.Between Mariem her employee Jamal, American archaeologist and wife they defeat and kill the german spies and knock out the plance.
Both couples are bliss Cuminghams and Kane and Marie, A good ending
Well, I'm a sucker for a novel about an archaeological dig. I subscribe to BAR and I really will have to spend a summer in the field one day. Until then, I pick up as many of these tales as possible. I'm not sure what attracts me. There's nothing too deep in this one, and it's quite formulaic. The desert sands, the strong and intelligent protagonist, the touch of romance, the quest for the long-lost temple of Sheba, they're all there. Good summer reading for around the pool.
A 1995 Higgins I came across. A Nazi plan to blow up the Suez Canal at the same time they move in to Poland. Plot foiled in Indiana Jones fashion by an American Expatriate archeologist and friends. Desert chases captured by desert Arabs, women to rescue and the lost temple and treasure of the Queen of Sheba. Non stop action for an afternoons read.
Fast paced, thrilling adventure in the true style expected of this author. One of his better WW2 reads. Great plot and all round characters. Higgins is the best in this genre. Tells the story without padding it out. I'd recommend anyone looking for an adventure story to read this book.
This book surprised me. I really liked it. If you are a fan of an Indiana Jones type of book with adventure, nazi's, hidden treasure, etc,then you will just like this book as much as me. This was a fun quick read. Don't miss it.
Good story (plot)
An old fashion "Boys Own" adventure story first published in 1994, but none the worse for that, if you like stories where men are men then this is for you.
quite predictable but overall good for a quick read
I really tried to read this book and thought it would be very interesting but in the end I could not get past page 72 and had to call it quits.
This book was a fun read.It was like an Indiana Jones movie in a lot of ways.
a quick read..
Good old-style Jack Higgins.
Higgins is the master
Not for me.
