https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/213337.My_Life_as_an_Explorer
He travelled in the years from the 1880s to early 1900, starting from Stockholm via Russia, crossing the entire continent to China, India, Nepal, and Tibet and back again several times.
He would organize large caravans with horses, camels, sheep, and pack -mules, and it happened that from 75 beasts at the start of an expedition, and due to extreme weather conditions, only two or three had survived by the arrival.
At times, he lived off the country, by shooting antelopes, hare or birds.Some of the wild beasts could be a challenge like the black bear, wild yak and especially the wolves were a daily danger, killing many horses, mules, and sheep.
I think you'd need gallons of testosterone to be willing to endure such extreme discomfort just for bragging rights.
"First European to set foot on this blank spot on the map." I admire Hedin's skills as a linguist, record-keeper, and collector of data.
I was not aware of how many hundreds of beasts of burden and other animals had to suffer and die in the service of these expeditions.
Camels, horses, mules, sheep, and dogs endured starvation, extreme heat, severe dehydration, subzero temperatures, and overwork.
Even if I could have braved one of Hedin's trips, I wouldn't have been able to bear the constant suffering of so many animals.
The description sounded interesting and inviting; I thought it would be a thrilling and engrossing book that I'd blow right through in a couple of days.Two weeks later, here I am, feeling a bit misled by Nancy Pearl.
And I respected Sven Hedin's courage and drive to explore.But this was NOT incredibly thrilling reading.
At several points, Hedin broke off the narrative to excerpt other writers congratulating him on his discoveries, and the Tibetan sections near the end became monotonous--climb mountain pass, lose dozens of animals, get blocked by the authorities, repeat.
Having read this book for the third time, in preparation for a return to Central Asia this autumn, I am struck this time by the wanton loss of life incurred in traversing all those snowy passes and sterile deserts and have to wonder if it was worth it.
If there's a time and place to read a book, I guess I have passed that time for this book.
No place for fiction here, that's what makes this book worth your while.On a side note I must add that, having read previous Hedin's works, I noticed a vast majority of the accounts have been shortened to fit it into one book.
So I would suggest this book to those ones who have never read anything on Hedin's expeditions.
Nevertheless, I enjoyed it as much as other Hedin's works.EDIT: The edition I read was the one from "National Geographic Adventure Classics".
It's almost hard to believe that one man actually did all the things described in this account. He discovered the source of the Indus and Brahmaputra Rivers, as well as ancient cities in the Taklamakan desert, mapped unexplored regions of Tibet, criss-crossed Tibet, India, Chinese Turkestan (Xinjiang), Russian Turkestan, Iran, Iraq, the Caucasus, Russia, China, and nearly died several times in the process. He was also a pupil of Ferdinand Von Richtofen and wrote more than 50 books on his exploration and travels.
I suppose this is the price of being successful in that period of time, but I did struggle with this.This book is more of a page turner than similar works (such as Speke's exploration book), but is still a bit dry.
I didn't tear through this like I do with other books, but I would recommend it to those that are interested in seeing the hardships experienced by true explorers forging though the white spaces on the maps.
This book gives a clear picture of how driven Sven Hedin was. Not necessarily in a bad way, but VERY driven. From his accounts (and many of the contemporaries who met Hedin) people are attracted to him and this makes his encounters interesting. I like the descriptions of his "puppies" and appreciate from his narrative that he is compassionate toward both people and animals. (perhaps more toward animals?) Anyway, not the Hedin book that I would pick to read first, but once you're on a roll w/Sven, you gotta read this one.
I had a love-hate relationship with Hedin's book detailing some of his travels in Asia, including many places where he was the first white man to set foot in. Especially at the beginning of the book, I found his narrative to be somewhat dry as it was more descriptive of the landscape than entertaining story. However, I really enjoyed the stories of the people he encountered and his survival stories about some epic adventures (particularly his first desert foray.) It took me a long time to wade through this book, but I found it overall an enjoyable read.
He visited Central Asia long before Communist Russia and China took control of that part of the world and forever changed the people and places found there.
Even though English was not his first language he writes in a clear compelling style that keeps you turning the pages so that the reader always wants to know more about the territories he visits.
Hedin readily admits that from a very early age he wanted the glory and adulation of being an explorer, which is fine except that far too many living things paid the price for the expeditions he led into those uncharted sections of the world.
I love a good exploration story, and gave Hedin the benefit of the doubt when his first expedition meets a disasterous end, all of the animals and all but two of the people dying in an agony of thirst in the desert.
When his second expedition starts to hemorrhage men and animals, either dying or deserting, Hedin blames his local guides for being untrustworthy cowards who just can't hack it.
Realizing that Saint-Exupery accomplished all that I had been hoping for out of Hedin's book, and in about 1/6 the space, I finally decided to shelve the remainder of My Life As an Explorer.

For starters, this is probably unlike anything you've ever read before.
Like most trip accounts, the story is more fantastic than the narrative.
But this story is bigger and more unbelievable than any other.
It's such a large adventure (or series of adventures) that the narrative actually seems hurried in a lot of spots.
People died and a lot of animals died in the making of this, and there was a worldview expressed that we wouldn't really tolerate today.
But, the guy was a tireless explorer and shares it with you.
And it makes (at least me) really want to go see the places he was.
One of my favourite exploration books of all time. As well as the incredible journeys through the inhospitable deserts of Asai surviving against mother nature there is place in human history. Although a relatively modern traveller he seemed to have linked the modern and the old world. Travelling in progress with the Shah of Persia, being one of the first westerners to enter Tibet and mapping great areas of Asia. His links with Nazi Germany has meant that he was all but forgotten after the war. His travels are through the Asai i would love to visit.
Sven Hedin war ein genialer Entdecker, der oft sein eigenes und das Leben seiner Reisebegleiter aufs Spiel setzte. Er hat sehr viele Bücher veröffentlicht, musste er doch mit den Einnahmen seine Reisen finanzieren. Er hat ein faszinierendes Leben geführt und wer möchte nicht gern auf seinen Pfaden wandern.
I would have liked this (extremely long) book a whole lot more if just once that man had realized you can't take an animal adapted to life in a desert and expect it to acclimate to working at 14,000 feet (in Tibet) in December. So many many unnecessary deaths overshadowed his not inconsiderable accomplishments.
This is a great book for anyone that finds explorers interesting. One of the interesting facts is how good of writer Sven was and is able to tell a compelling story. Yes he made some stupid decisions in his life but its a great read and tells of time that no longer exists.
This is one of those explorer books that you wouldn't believe as fiction because it is so fantastic. Written by the explorer himself you have constant hints about how he made great friends without sharing languages and missed being killed in so many ways. A fun way to spend your winter nights.
nederlanse versie
I found this book at a half price books. It is one of the coolest things I have ever read.
I love first hand accounts. Dripping with suspense,frightening exploration and amazing history.
interest builds subtly, but firmly. one of my favourite authors/Explorers. thank you some one for giving this.
Well worth reading, although I wish the map had been better
Good armchair travel for the kid-bound.

En rätt tråkig lista på platser han besökt, floder han korsat och bergpass han gått över. Samt kändisar han träffat.
