https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/142080.Collected_Poems_1909_1962
A stupendous compendium of classical and lyrical poems filled with lush and evocative imageries that captures your imagination!
No wonder you didn't pass the friendship stage.
Just read and observe how Eliot describes this barmy, laughing woman.
The Waste LandEliot's most famous poem with tons of literary allusions.
Interpretation of the said poem might vary, but basically, it's about the degradation of our society, our civilization, hence, our world becoming a wasteland.
What the Thunder SaidFour QuartetsBeautiful, powerful, and memorable poems from Burnt Norton to Little Gidding.
Four Quartets - Burnt Norton=================================17.
Four Quartets - Little Gidding======================
Collected poems 1909 -1962, T.S. EliotThis edition of Collected Poems 1909-1962 includes his verse from Prufrock and Other Observations (1917) to Four Quartets (1943), and includes such literary landmarks as The Waste Land and Old Possum's Book of Practical Cats. New York: Harcourt Brace and Company, 1991, 221 Pages, Isbn 0151189781تاریخ نخستین خوانش: بیست و هفتم ماه سپتامبر سال 1994 میلادیا. شربیانی
Collected poems 1909 -1962, T.S. EliotThis edition of Collected Poems 1909-1962 includes his verse from Prufrock and Other Observations (1917) to Four Quartets (1943), and includes such literary landmarks as The Waste Land and Old Possum's Book of Practical Cats. ‎New York‬: ‎Harcourt Brace and Company‬, ‎1991, 221 Pages, Isbn 0151189781‬تاریخ نخستین خوانش: بیست و هفتم ماه سپتامبر سال 1994 میلادیا. شربیانی
Wow. Eliot was a phenomenal poet. What lovely writing!
That's all the facts, when you come to brass tacks:Birth, and copulation, and death.I've been born and once is enough.You don't remember, but I remember,Once is enough.Well here again that don't applyBut I've gotta use words when I talk to youWhen you're alone like he was aloneYou're either or neitherI tell you again it don't applyDeath or life or life or deathDeath is life and life is deathI gotta use words when I talk to youBut if you understand or if you don'tThat's nothing to me and nothing
And when you can, through the application of diligent reasoning and intuitive sleuthing, discern the implicit meaning behind the elegantly moving textual façade, you realize that Eliot truly belongs in that first-tier of twentieth century poets, masterfully forging personal commiserations by means of linguistic elements invariably held at somewhat of a remove—the better to penetrate the obfuscations of an age engaged in the shedding and shoring-up of beliefs—that it might seize and squeeze your spiritual nuts.
Lincoln's bearded visage over time starts to become a pretty tedious stone representation of Lincoln's bearded visage.
After a little more time, the monuments become background and are incapable of being seen at all, and then when you do revisit them, to try to see them again, they evoke very little in terms of inspiration or feeling.
But O'Hara's work possesses elements that I find fundamentally lacking in Eliot's: humorous melancholy, strange language that manages to stay alive beyond multiple readings, amateurishness (which is important), willingness to sound ridiculous, or even superfluous at times, in the search of the oblique sentiment that is inexactly, perfectly human.
Critics of Eliot damn his work for its difficulties - and one cannot deny that its complicated diversions into technical and structural experimentation, mythical reference and multilingual commentary do initially intimidate.
The beauty of Eliot's poetry is that it grows with you.
Eliot doesn't always succeed, and many of his poems seem trite and pretentious, but when he succeeds he hits dead on with poetry perfect in form, balance, and sound.
For a complete overview of Eliot you should read at least one of his plays (Murder In The Cathedral) and one of his volumes of critical essays.
While I love some of the poems, others I didn't care for at all.
These poems were selected by Eliot himself just a few years before he died as the best of his work and it certainly contains all of his most famous work EXCEPT for the fact it doesn't even have one poem from "Old Possum's Book of Practical Cats".
My favorites:- The Love Song of J.
Alfred Prufrock- Portrait of a Lady- The Waste Land (reviewed separately)- Ahe-Wednesday V (If the lost word is lost, if the spent word is spent)- Five-finger Exercises (esp.
I Lines to a Persian Cat) - Landscapes (esp.
After I was done reading it I was telling my mother, "It kills me.
He shows you what poetry can be, what it can do, how high it can reach.I just loved every, really every, bit of this book and I know for sure I want to read it again.
Actually, I was a little melancholic reaching the end and I felt like I wanted to read more.
It is a great great piece of art and if you haven't read Eliot, you don't know what you're missing.
I appreciate T.S. Eliot as a influential and significant writer of classic literature. However, I find it difficult to understand the truest meaning of his words. Truthfully that is a fault of mine, but poetry has never been something I am drawn to. In saying that, I'm willing to look deeper into his poetry to better understand it.
neden canım eliot çevrilmiyor bu memlekette?demiştim, allaha şükür everestten geldi.
A breathtakingly rich collection of classic poems, with masterpieces such as ‘The Hollow Men’ and the classical ‘Waste Land’ resounding triumphantly through the pages. Eliot’s fragmentary texts are beautiful; lush in a brilliant, burning way, with lines such as ‘Ash on an old man’s sleeve / Is all the ash the burnt roses leave’ proving his lyrical gift for making music with words. It’s as Eliot himself describes in part V of ‘Little Gidding’:   ‘And every phrase And sentence that is right (where
Eliot’s fragmentary texts are beautiful; lush in a brilliant, burning way, with lines such as ‘Ash on an old man’s sleeve / Is all the ash the burnt roses leave’ proving his lyrical gift for making music with words.
My favourites are compacted with both new and old; I discovered little gems here and there, but works such as ‘The Hollow Men’ have always been a favourite of mine for years.
‘Ash on an old man’s sleeveIs all the ash the burnet roses leaveDust in the air suspendedMarks the place where a story endedDust inbreathed was a houseThe walls, the wainscot and the mouseThe death of hope and despair This is the death of air.’ All sorts of beautiful.

I've spent my life reading Eliot.
A story I still love to tell is how I spent the summer of my 17th year walking around with a library copy of Eliot's poems under my arm.
Eliot has followed the arc of a man's reading life.
From the boy walking summer with Eliot tucked under his arm to the much older man still reading for the umpteenth time, that volume now full of notes and underlinings indicating an understanding if not quite yet the understanding.
I think that each reader gets his own meaning from Eliot because he wrote the poetry everyone needs.
Way too much here for a real review, but I had to write something about the volume that's been my tattered, marked-up, much-loved companion for twelve years now.
I feel Eliot's ache for transcendence, his paralyzing frustration at the limitations of language to communicate the depths of our souls.
And yet he did it better than anyone ever has.
It's intellectual, yes, but it's from an intellectual perpetually pushing across into the visceral, never quite unifying it all fully, and knowing that the action itself, not the getting there, is the blessing.Less floridly, in general the most famous stuff is the best.
The Four Quartets are my favorite poem(s) of all time, and Ash-Wednesday is nearly as good.
This father and Fabre edition is the perfect introduction to his poetry, opening with the more raw Eliot of Prufrock through his sculpting as an artist with The Hollow Men, The Wasteland, Ash Wednesday, Choruses from the Rock and Four Quartets.Hollow Men remains the most solidified poetic experience that Eliot can give.
Though I enjoyed Choruses from the Rock and Ash Wednesday immensely.I read this quickly after Ezra Pound’s Personae, and, if push came to shove, I would side with Pound being the better poet.
Pound has already left - his salvation arrived in Greece.
I fell in love with them on first reading, and there is something about Eliot's style that is so affecting; he places words in an order that, from a more objective point of view is quite odd, but create such a vivid mood or atmosphere that you can't help but be moved.
This is especially true of his later work, like the infamous "The Wasteland" and "The Four Quartets".I come back to Eliot, out of fondness for my first experiences with his work, but also out of a continuing insight I find there.
Eliot writes some beautiful poetry, particularly "The Wasteland" and "The Love Song of J.
Alfred Prufrock." I also like "The Hippopotamus," "The Hollow Men," "The Four Quartets," and "Ash Wednesday." There are other poems that I don't really understand (some of them are not written in English).
Nevertheless, it is nearly always evident that Eliot is a careful, master craftsman.
It is somewhat difficult to rate a whole collection of poetry.
However, there are some excellent and wonderful poems in this collection.
There is a lot to learn and to enjoy in Eliot's writing.
These are the poems I want to wallow in.
But the abstract conception / Of private experience at its greatest intensity / Becoming universal, which we call 'poetry', / May be affirmed in verse" ("A Note on War Poetry").Overall, Eliot's poems taught me how important it is to spend time with each poem and how difficult is to read poetry in general.
It seems the reader is looking for poems that best describe their "private experience at its greatest intensity," which means the reader blatantly reads meaning into the text (who doesn't?).
To the extent that I came away with a poem I liked (The Hollow Men), I'd say the reading was fruitful.
And being iconic it is poetic.
Despite all their excesses, they saw (better than the academic professor today) that the Bible yearns to break through with new meaning and simple, surface level interpretations are not enough.
T.S. Eliot is probably the supreme example of a theo-poet.
Like the icon, we see in Eliot another dimension.Decadence or Neo-Medievalism: Initial Thoughts on the Poetry of T.
S. EliotOr perhaps Decadent Medievalism.
I must preface this admitting I am very new to the poetry of Eliot.
Eliot's indirect argument for medievalism, if indeed he is making such an argument, is the decadence of today.
mas ao mesmo tempo ela mostra o crescimento do autor, o que é muito legal de perceber.Boa parte dos poemas iniciais desse livro mostram um autor querendo mostrar o seu conhecimento intelectual, o que para mim soou um tanto quanto arrogante, depois ele se aprofunda mais na questão religiosa, que perpassa por toda a obra, o que de vez em quando me incomoda e de vez em quando eu gosto.
Lá pela metade do livro fiquei com a sensação que ele finalmente se achou, e aí sai de baixo, o trabalho de Eliot é realmente de cair o queixo, ele não ganhou o Nobel a toa, mesmo.
The first forewarning of a couplet makes me cringe, and other than the subject matter, I can't really distinguish Longfellow from a limerick.
He embeds incredibly evocative phrases within a bewildering twisting medley of free verse.
This particular collection contains several gems that didn't make it into the various books of "selected poems."Some of phrases from these excluded (if I remember correctly) poems:"Whispers of Immortality":
...Due to my disapproval of GR's new and highly subjective review deletion policy, I am no longer posting full reviews here.The rest of this review can be found on Booklikes.
I rather enjoyed everything from Eliot's conversion to Anglicanism onwards - Choruses from the Rock and Four Quartets in particular.But I found Prufrock and the Wasteland frustrating and needlessly esoteric.
Perhaps I was getting used to Eliot's style as I was reading his poems chronologically or perhaps I just didn't use enough effort; but it felt like James Joyce at his most pretentious: deliberately obscuring rather than revealing.
Mr Apollinax was utter crap.I may not agree with Christianity, but get the impression that Eliot, with his conversion, found a desire to communicate with more than just style and aesthetics.
Since these poems were written over the course of half a century, one rating cannot apply to the whole collection.
Some of it was fully deserving of five stars, and some of it barely deserving of one.
I've knocked of a couple of stars because his religious poems were pious nonsense of very little, if any, value, painful and tedious to read.
But on the whole, the collection is fantastic.
Sadly, I can only speak and read English, so some portions of the book were unintelligible to me.
I found this to be okay. I know, it's a classic, but one that left me sometimes wondering what the hell I just read! At other times, I found the poetry peaceful and satisfying and well worth reading. Some of the references went right over my head, which may have diminished my enjoyment of the book. I think this would be the perfect poetry collection for studying and I'll probably approach it again that way one day when I reread it.
Since studying this collection in my Year 12 literature class, Eliot has become one of my favourite poets. This collection takes the reader on a journey through time, change, growth, love, human interaction, hatred, religion, war and much more. My favourite is 'Burnt Norton'. I can't properly explain just how much Eliot's prose can effect you. His poems are intellectual, complex and emotional.
The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock is one of my all time favorite poems and of course The Waste Land, the poem that changed the history of poetry in the 20th century. The only poems I wasnt familiar with in the collection was the Choruses from "The Rock". It was really interestign to witness the more mature Eliot and his religious preoccupation later on in his life.
απογοητεύτηκα.... :-(
I love Eliot, and always seem to forget just how modern and even contemporary he still is. How fresh he still is. This is poetry of the highest order.
awefull
