https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18668059-the-obstacle-is-the-way
For example, if you have a contract from Penguin to write a self-help book but you have absolutely nothing to say, don't fret.
Flip to any page; if it isn't an anecdote about how some famous person got famous by exhibiting a given virtue, it's just more of this run-on about how you have to find the way in which your obstacle is the way.
No word on whether the Native Americans just got out-stoic'd by the "pioneer spirit." The next time you'll read such a vacuous, half-lidded recitation of Western History, it'll be when your sixth-grader is preparing a report he didn't research enough.
About as useful as starting with a list of amputees, picking out only the successful ones, getting their stories, and then writing a book called "Having a Limb Chopped Off is the Way".
This isn't much more than a superficial repackaging of stoicism combined with some semi-interesting anecdotes and a whole lot of trite motivational affirmations.
The book is written in the style of Holiday's mentor, Robert Greene, but where Greene does something rare and surprising by compensating for his lack of personal experience with deep and compelling research, The Obstacle is the Way falls flat.
The anecdotes are common and superficial and their ties to Stoicism feel tenuous at best.
This book feels rushed and incomplete though.
It also offers a system for approaching life as a more average person, turning obstacles into advantages, and using relentless persistence to achieve what you want.
We all face obstacles in our lives, what matters is how we perceive them and work with them to move on.
"When we aim high, pressure and stress obligingly come along for the ride," so we have to find ways of dealing with them, as well as the aspects of life that may blindside up with randomness.
He makes the words from thousands of years ago come alive through modern example.
Through perception, action and will, we can achieve despite obstacles.
This book was a fucking obstacle. Now I can share the way: Don't bother.
I don’t know Ryan Holiday, but I heard of this book from Tim Ferriss and was intrigued by the description so I decided to dose myself in some stoicism. Dynamite book – I’m glad I put the time in. Holiday covers the topic well in a very accessible way.

Early in the book Holiday writes, “This is not a book of gushing, hazy optimism…There will be no folksy saying or cute but utterly ineffectual proverbs.”He is partially right.
Holiday is an accomplished thinker and writer, but this book will not give you a comprehensive insight into success or stoicism, but rather a foolishly short-sided view of the world.If Holiday analyzed the European theatre of WW2 he would forget to mention America's supply chain advantages or Germany's lack of oil.
Instead he would focus on Eisenhower's unique ability to "find the opportunity" and see that the solution to the German strategy "was found inside the strategy itself."That is, by the way, almost exactly the childish and sophomoric analysis he provides.
Maybe I got into it with too much background of the author.Knowing and linking much of the Tim Ferris stuff I had read the blog post of "How to do a bestseller" which this applies without shame.
That in itself would be no bad thing.
The bad thing for me starts when there is no depth in this book.
It is like having heard a good quote and repeating it over and over and over again.I like the author and I like stoism.
But there is so much more than "It is not important what life throws at you, you still can make it"
It could be immensely helpful to the bright-eyed, the bubbly, the go-getters, et al., in coping with the coming obstacles that will surely come his/her way, some of which could even be so devastating that it shatters (or seems to) the personal myth most of us hold so tightly upon entering the working world: a big house, a perfect marriage, 2 straight A kids, and a well-planned career you love and that makes you tons of money.
This is a new perspective coming from many different angles on turning obstacles over, around and about into positives, and maybe to a better way than that shattered myth of me.
The hard things that happen in the world do not occur for our own personal growth and "journeys".Ryan Holiday is apparently known for another popular work (which some have found a bit chilling) Trust Me, I'm Lying.
I didn't trust Holiday for a minute here with his Tony Robbins-like exhortations and his superficial glossing over in chipper staccato prose of life's real hardships and injustices.
One's attitude and perception do need to be wrestled with in times of great pain and hardship, but such events don't occur to make us better people.I do not recommend this formulaic piece of self-help schlock.
The key is to not let your emotions color your perception of the world.Ryan not only provides a great review of stoicism, he does an excellent job at articulating exactly how this school of thought can be applied to any problems that you might be facing now as you try to advance your career or transition from academia into a new career.
Rooted in actionable philosophy that seeks to flip readers' perception of any problematic event into an opportunity, 'Obstacle''s inner message is that, ultimately, the only thing standing between success and failure is yourself.
His writing style here is sharp, succinct and authoritative, and clearly influenced by the approach of Holiday's mentor – and another favourite author of mine – Robert Greene ('The 48 Laws of Power', 'Mastery').
'The Obstacle is the Way' is a must-read for any thinking human.
It's a text that I can easily see myself returning to in times of need, just as I do with 'The 48 Laws of Power' and 'Mastery'.
Some interesting ideas, some nice stoic quotes, but overall it's more like a very long, feel good, bland, blog post.
Life is complex and most of the time you cannot pick examples of successful people and attribute their success to specific causes.
A lot of the real life examples in this book felt like they were shaped and distorted to fit the autor's narrative and to sit nicely in the few lines each was given.
Sometimes I like to pick up one of these books that sit squarely in the self-help category..
Taking the reader through a practical and extremely balanced approach for handling failure, The Obstacle is the Way is a must-read for anyone who has struggled with crippling self-doubt, self-pity, and ennui.
If we so choose.As someone who feels deeply and places great value on emotions as a creative and relational force, I confess I held a bit of a grudge against Stoicism before reading this book.
There must be something greater encompassing that passion to make the vision come to life no matter what obstacles are thrown in its way.
I really wanted to like this.
Ryan seems like a smart guy.
It was very repetitive and "cheerleady" (okay, I know that's not a word).I can summarize this book in a few words: Put on your big boy pants.Push on.
And do the right thing.Toward the end of the book, in the recommended reading, Ryan states not to read the books about Stoicism but to read the originals.
The books about Stoicism aren't worth checking out (and he knows because he's read all of them).
I'd take his advice on this one and stick to the original works by Marcus Aurelius, Seneca, Epictetus, etc.
I've read a lot of books based on his monthly recommendations and he got me started on researching the stoic school of philosophy myself.
it is to solve some of the problems of life, not only theoretically, but practically."- Henry David Thoreau"Most of our obstacles are internal, not external.""Things which hurt, instruct."- Benjamin FranklinOvercoming obstacles is a discipline of 3 steps:- Perception- Action- WillSangfroid: unflappable coolness under pressure"Just say: No thank you, I can't afford to panic.""This happened and it is bad.
Effort You Control, Result The Process Controls => SURRENDER TO THE PROCESS."Sometimes a problem needs LESS of you."Stoics = Mental Athletes.=> "Their muscle memory grew to the point that they could intuitively respond to every situation.
Add annotation of little value to the works of other writers and great men.
A document that does not come close to living up to its hype.I like the guy that Ryan Holiday used to work for, Robert Greene; an author who is controversial, has broken some new ground and takes risks which often result in forging vibrancy, meaning and life into what he writes about.
This book is simply haggis dressed as filet mignon.Mr. Holiday's talents potentially lie in other directions, most likely marketing and sales.
Don't get me wrong, these qualities don't necessarily preclude good writing.
Good writing just requires something more.
سالها پیش یک دوره آموزشی در مورد تندخوانی رو نگاه میکردم.
از خود مجموعه چیز زیادی یاد نگرفتم.
به درد نمیخورد.
اما در کنار این محصول چند تا مصاحبه به عنوان اشانتیون (بونس) گذاشته بود.
یکی از این مصاحبهها با یک آقایی بود که در مورد اصل بنیادی کسب ثروت حرف میزد.
میگفت روشهایی که برای ثروتمند شدن آموزش داده میشن معمولا برای همه افراد کارایی ندارن.
روشی وجود نداره که بخواد قدم به قدم راه رو مشخص کنه و با اجرا کردنش همه ثروتمند بشن.
اصل بنیادی اینه که حرکت کنیم و متوقف نشیم.
مهم نیست که تصمیم به انجام
یکی از این مصاحبه‌ها با یک آقایی بود که در مورد اصل بنیادی کسب ثروت حرف می‌زد.
برای چیزهایی که فکرمون رو مشغول می‌کنه سریع تعیین تکلیف کنیم؛ یا انجامش بدیم، یا بذاریمش کنار و فراموشش کنیم، یا به یک نفر دیگه بسپریم که انجامش بده یا هر کار دیگه‌ای که اون رو از سیستم ما خارج کنه.
وقتی فکرمون مشغول باشه نمی‌تونیم به چیزهایی که هدف ما هستن فکر کنیم و کاری براشون انجام بدیم.
که البته منحصر به این موضوع هم نیست و می‌تونه برای چیزهای دیگه هم به کار بره.
This book is to Stoicism what a Lipton Iced Tea is to a glass of ice water: they share some substance, but the former is saccharine sweet and diluted while the later is bracing and clear.I can't assess how good an introduction this is to Stoicism for one not acquainted with it.
In the hands of a good translator, they read more clearly today than most business best sellers.And if you have read any business best sellers lately, you will see the same examples and anecdotes they share used here to clutter and mask the beauty and wisdom of the Stoics.
This book contains superficially interpreted and simplified ideas of the Stoic philosophy and interconnects them with the anecdotes and modern life examples. Thats it. You will not find there any original idea or even analysis of the Stoicism. Author repeats the same things again and again seasoned with the names and quotes of the great philosophers.
You're supposed to learn that as you go, life being a trial by error experiment, in which any failure is short-term can be simply overcome (note for author: Life doesn't always work like that).
Even if you knew when to strike and when not to, things can still get in your way, and if they do, well the least you can do is help others or learn something virtuous.
If you take anything from this book, take that being resilient, being persistent, and having a good work ethic will help you more than not having those things.
How to turn every obstacle into an advantage. An exploration of why things can be difficult and the best way to approach obstacles in terms of attitude and action. Full of classical quotes and historical stories, this is weightier than most self help. Certainly no fast read, but one to make you think. "We shouldn't listen too closely to what people say. We'll find ourselves erring on the side of accomplishing nothing."
Everyone has written excellent reviews so I'll keep mine short.This book is stoicism 101, and resiliency 101.
When you feel fear, doubt, lost- this is a book that will remind you that your problems are not unique- plenty of people have suffered worse, and flourished because of it.
A large part of the value of his book also lies in how many people he exposes you to through stories and anecdotes.
If you want to explore any of the characters or topics deeper- he has already given you an excellent starting point through the bibliography.
Το καλύτερο βιβλίο που διάβασα το 2014.Και ίσως το δευτερο καλύτερο βιβλίο που έχω διαβάσει τα τελευταία χρόνια. Οποιος περνάει φάση αβεβαιότητας, έχει βαρεθεί τις ψευτοδικαιολογίες που δημιουργούμε μόνοι μας, και θελει μια έξτρα δόση αυτοπεποίθεσης θα το λατρέψει...Μην το διαβάσετε αν σας αρέσει να τα φορτώνετε όλα στην μοίρα και προτιμάτε την κλάψα απο την δράση(Επίσης must βιβλίο για λάτρεις του Στωικισμού.)
The Obstacle is the Way is a quick overview of Stoicism, how the author applies that philosophy to his life, and how folks throughout history have used Stoicism to surmount obstacles in their way.
I rather liked it but I haven't read the originals (yet) or know much about the topic beyond this book.
I would be interested to see what close friends of mine, who claim to be Stoics, have to say about it.
Nudge, nudge, Brad Wagnon.
Like other philosophy books, I found this one to be heavy on the stories and light on the practical application, but that's.
In stoicism, goads kick against you!
I would suggest a rereading of Marcus Aurelius' Meditations instead of this.P.S. Also I am tired of examples about what Generals did during wars.
I have to admit, the paradoxical title caught my attention: “The Obstacle Is The Way” is a maxim that, on the surface, is more than a little counter-intuitive. Yet, from these opening quotes of Roman Emperor Marcus Aurelius, penned in 170 A. D., I was all in: “Our actions may be impeded … but there can be no impeding our intentions or  dispositions. Because we can accommodate and adapt. The mind adapts and  converts to its own purposes the obstacle to our acting.” “The impediment to action advan
I have to admit, the paradoxical title caught my attention: “The Obstacle Is The Way” is a maxim that, on the surface, is more than a little counter-intuitive.
The mind adapts and 	 converts to its own purposes the obstacle to our acting.”	“The impediment to action advances action.
This book, well-organized into quite a number of bite-sized and motivating precepts, is based on Stoic philosophy, though one doesn’t need to be an expert in Stoicism to gain plenty of useful application here.One of the best parts is the personal illustration woven into each topic, drawn from the lives of such achievers as John D.
Update March 2018:I've really loved re-listening to this book, it's made me realise how far I've come since I first read it in terms of choosing to approaching problems stoically.
Six months ago I cried a lot from putting myself in risky/stressful situations and felt very helpless, and now I'm still doing those things (lol), but my response to them is unceasing positivity and confidence.
It'll be interesting to come back to it in a year or so and check in on my progress.Original review (October 2017):a) This is really good and if you keep the sentiment present in your mind whenever you face adversity it will be immensely helpful.b) it's just a collection of aphorisms, bastardised stoicism, and 'YOU CAN DO IT' cheer.
