https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/311163.Faro_s_Daughter
Even Heyer's witty writing didn't save this one for me.Deborah Grantham is a 25 year old with decent parentage, but gambling runs in the family and between one thing and another, she's ended up as a faro dealer at a London gambling house run by her aunt.
So Adrian's uncle, Max Ravenscar, tracks Deborah down and decides the best way to handle her is to offer to pay her money - a lot of money - to send Adrian packing.
Max Ravenscar, the Hero, is appalled when he learns that his young nephew plans to marry a gaming house wench, and he lets her know in no uncertain words what he thinks of such a union.Ohh!
Max normally had good control of himself, but Deborah was out to get him.
To think that it all started because Max thought she was going to marry his nephew!
This has become one of my favorites by Georgette Heyer.There is not as much language as one would exspect from a book where much time is spent in a gambling house.
Gulp.& the pace on this one never lets up!Deb may be quick tempered, but she is also loyal, kind, inventive (!) & when her aunt needs help with her gambling house, she doesn't hesitate to step in, even though she must have realised that she was putting paid to any chance of an eligible marriage & leaving herself open to far less savoury offers.
Deb's aunt Lady Bellingham is one of my favourites - scatty yet kind, GH gives her some the book's best lines.& I think Kit is the most horrible of all the unsatisfactory brothers in GH's stories.
I smiled the entire time it took me to read this novel, the battle of the sexes of the first order set in Regency England.
When he learns that his younger cousin, twenty-year-old Adrian, is in love with a girl from a gaming house, a painted harpy (in his opinion), and contemplates matrimony, Max is aghast.
She is not painted, nor greedy, nor a harpy, and she doesn’t contemplate matrimony, at least not to Adrian, who is five years her junior.
She is as proud as Max, but unfortunately, her family hit the hard times, and she has no choice but to help her aunt in her gaming establishment.
HANDS DOWN THE FUNNIEST HEYER I'VE READ YETDeborah Grantham is a well(-enough) born miss who, due to her father's impoverished circumstances, ended up being raised by her aunt, Lady Bellingham, who runs an exclusive gaming house in London. In any case a little lord with a bad case of puppy love gets into his head that he wants to marry her, and even though she never had any intention of accepting, his older, scowly cousin Mr Ravenscar, decides to save little Adrian from the alleged fortune-hunt
In any case a little lord with a bad case of puppy love gets into his head that he wants to marry her, and even though she never had any intention of accepting, his older, scowly cousin Mr Ravenscar, decides to save little Adrian from the alleged fortune-hunter/gaming wench.
I repeat, Deb at no point even considered accepting Adrien's proposal.
But Deb and Mr Ravenscar are two of the BIGGEST DRAMA QUEENS to ever exist and that's why this novel is so amazing/hilarious.
I love it!
One of the best Heyer books.
I couldn't stop reading.
Fortunately, I could spare time for that.
So I have read it in one day (all day).There wasn't a scene that I don't like.
Both heroes have a spirit, strong personality.
There isn't (so typical for Heyer) a hero who must rescue a defenceless heroine.What was shocking to me the most - that I was surprised two times how the story turned out.
Because, I love Heyer romances, but they are very predictable.
Not this book, at least for me.I want more such stories!
Challenge completed!
This was book #250 for the year and also the perfect way to complete my GR reading challenge.
There's just something about Georgette Heyer novels that makes my heart happy and leaves me smiling.
It also made up for that crappy holiday book I read earlier today.
A palate cleanser, if you will.
But I digress.
I really loved the hero's capacity for jumping to conclusions -- well, after he was basically goaded to it -- and the rampant miscommunication and constant scheming on the heroine's part.
I think that last aspect is what makes Heyer's novels so fun.
Completely unselfish plotting that makes me laugh.
Just what I needed today.
Lady Bellingham opens her home to “select gaming parties” as a way of making ends meet; preserving the illusion that people attend by invitation only allows her to maintain a façade of respectability.Deborah is quick-witted, intelligent and practical, although at twenty-six years of age, she is pretty much on the shelf, and the fact that she presides over her aunt’s gaming salon renders her ineligible as a wife for any man of good breeding.
She cannot possibly countenance Adrian’s marrying a common hussy – and while he is not yet of age, his birthday in two months’ time will see him finally independent and able to bestow his person and his considerable fortune anywhere he pleases.In her desperation to prevent such an imprudent marriage, Lady Maplethorpe turns to her nephew, Max Ravenscar for help.
2.5This isn't the first book with this theme I've read so far.
I didn't like the characters, but while I simply didn't like Deborah Grantham and Max Ravenscar or their cousins and friends, her aunt was the most despicable person in the whole book.
It might be just me but I felt sick while reading the scenes when she was talking about the debts and Deb's suitors.
The theme is great.
I haven't read Heyer before so I am certain that there are other books that I might like a bit more.
I'll go with it was an ok book for now.
The heroine needed a good smack upside the head.
You are not a martyr headed to the stake, GOOD LORD.
The hero, likewise, though more so in the latter part of the book.
There's waaay more misogyny than is at all necessary.
Heyer seems to deliberately have neither of them get it/say it for the purposes of drawing out the book another hundred pages.
Could've been over in fifty, done this way.
Could have been more interesting, done another.
But I do like seeing a woman who works for her living, manages finances, and generally takes care of herself, and I have re-read it several times, so I'll give it the extra star.
I’m giving this book 4.5 stars for being a thoroughly enjoyable and easy read.
I have always been a fan of the novels of Jane Austen and while I will not profess to do a comparison lest I be set upon by angry Austen aficionados, I will go so far as to say it is of the same ilk.
The story line is easy to follow with many misunderstandings leading to the sorts of calamities that lend a bit of a comedic air to this lovely little romance.
Siempre es un placer leer a Georgette Heyer. Sus diálogos no tienen desperdicio. Aunque en esta ocasión el final es un poco precipitado.
2011 Review Faro's Daughter  isn't one of Heyer's more popular books, and I picked it up half expecting it to be a disappointment.
Outraged and offended that he would try and bribe her off, Deborah is determined to get revenge, even if that means marrying his youngster of a nephew!A very cute, very humorous novel, full of romp and Heyer humor, I quite enjoyed this book.
Deborah is a great deal like Sophy from  The Grand Sophy  and as that is my favorite Heyer book, it stands to reason I'd enjoy this one too.
Their adversarial behaviour is pretty delightful, until you think seriously about how horribly Ravenscar is treating Deb, and without real evidence that she’s actually doing anything he suspects her of.
It’s a bit too sudden to me; particularly as we don’t get much from Ravenscar’s point of view that explains his softening towards Deb.The side plot with Adrian and Phoebe, though, is pretty adorable.It’s fun, but more fun if you try not to think about it too much, perhaps.
Her books The Grand Sophy and Arabella have been favorites of mine for the past couple years.
I have been trying to find another book of hers that I like as much as those two.
While Faro's Daughter won't replace either of those on my list of favorites I still thoroughly enjoyed this one!
I wish there had been a few more scenes showing their relationship changing from adversaries to lovers.
We don't get many details or interactions showing the attraction between the two main characters until the very end so much of the relationship development is only seen by reading between the lines.
Deb has no intention of marrying Adrian, she is much too honorable of a person and she isn't a bit in love with him, so when Ravenscar offers her twenty-thousand pounds to leave Adrian alone, she loses her shit."The palm of Miss Grantham’s hand itched again to hit him, and it was with an immense effort of will that she forced herself to refrain.
Ravenscar again jumps to the conclusion that Deb has married Adrian just to spite him.
Definitely among my favorite books from Georgette Heyer.The heroine was among those older, wiser, not eligible and not looking for a husband, which I usually prefer to the younger needing maturing ones.
The hero was the usual rich peer uninterested by marriage falling in love despite himself with the heroine.I liked the overall plot which lied on Max and Deborah having a disaster of a first encounter, each finding the other even worse than whatever bad they already expected and trying to best the other out of wounded pride nourishing spite.
And this helped me forget its flaws.
UGH THIS BOOK.
Max wants to keep her away from his cousin!
A match of wits ensues AND THEY FALL IN LOVE and UGH MY FEELINGS.
Even the foibles of the younger set didn't bother me!I feel like I should try and capture MORE about what I loved about this book, but I don't know what to say because it was just the feeling I got when I hit the last pages and Deb attempts to convince Max that he can't marry her because she'll ruin him, and just FEELINGS.
my rom-com loving heart is just skdfjlkdsfjdklfjdklfjds. the last 20% of the book had me feeling so many things!!! where is the movie adaptation??? the netflix series??? i cannot BELIEVE literary snobs don't give heyer the respect she deserves.
Max is determined that he will get Adrian away from her, but decides to offer a bribe.Deb Grantham came of a good family, but her late father was a gambler and her Aunt Lizzy with whom she has lived since her father died, has turned her card parties into a gaming business.
She finds it amusing until Max Ravenscar insults her with the offer of a bribe and makes it clear the distaste he has for his young cousin Maplethorpe being entangled with the likes of her.
My Second Georgette HeyerI loved the dialogue.
So much wit and humor.
Deb was a much more memorable heroine than Phoebe (1957's Sylvester) being as she is older, more competent and self-possessed.
A gambling parlor was an interesting place for her and Lord Max Mablethorpe to meet and form quick and damning first impressions of each other.
After learning of his offences, Max doesn't grovel for forgiveness.
So when Deb still forgives him, for me it was a strech.
I dislike having my heroine be infantilised or cowed into submission by the hero.
Heyer introduces our hero, Max Ravenscar,who is quite possibly the flintiest of her stoic, independent-minded, I am not a slave to the latest customs and fashions because I am just so above all of that in my superior maleness.The war of wills between Miss Grantham and Lord Ravenscar escalates throughout the novel and it is fun watching Miss Grantham raise the stakes and do her utmost to outwit Lord Ravenscar and prove who is the more clever.
Some Heyers, like Cotillion, I enjoy more every time I read them.
Faro's Daughter is a rarity - I dislike it more every time I read it.
In fact, this may be my last read.As with Judith in Regency Buck, I want to like Deborah Grantham.
She's funny, clever, and kindhearted...as long as she isn't talking to or about Max Ravenscar.
When she is, she becomes a screeching, irrational harridan.
As for Ravenscar, I like him as a caring brother, but I can't like him in any other scenes.
He's as irrational as Deb when they come to points, as they do frequently.
My favourite Georgette Heyer, simples.June 2018. Another read - about my trillionth. And it was even better for the gap. I just love, love, love this. If you've never read a Heyer, start here.
so time to fess up, aside form good solid comtemp fiction, I read detective, I read popular romance, I read only a litte non fiction and I love regency romances by Georgette Heyer.
So -- dialog is great, and full of lovely antiquated expressions, so if you like to be acquainted with out of vogue words and expressions that is another fun aspect to her writing.
The books are all quite different however -- Heyer is not one who set one formula and kept repeating it.
3.5 stars.
Cute.
Typical GH though not her best.
Hoity-toity hero tries to drag down terribly misunderstood Mary Sue type who he thinks has eyes for his much younger cousin.
Poor thing only deals poker in a gaming hell to help out her poor ol' auntie.
Heroine is a smart chick who ain't afraid to make herself look foolish in order to give the H and his snooty aunt an aneurysm.
Of course every action deserves a reaction and we have lots of back and forth humorous drama.
Our H finally falls for the h but she'll have none of it, blah, blah, blah, until we have our HEA.
Listened to this on audiobook (female narrator who was a capable voice artist, but kept giving the characters personalities I don't think quite matched the story).This is one of Heyer's regencies where the female lead is on the surface capable, but is constantly bettered by the male lead.
Better in the second half, but not my favourite.
She has no intentions of marrying young Mablethorpe but when his cousin interferes, Deb's temper is aroused and she vows to get the better of Max.This is one of my least favorite Heyer novels.
Not that I wouldn't act the same way, but I just didn't care for their relationship.I loathed Max. I usually love the sporting heroes but not Max. At first glance he seemed like a good hero.
He continues to be rude and insulting towards Deb and he doesn't experience any character growth or change in the story.The women come off better than the men in this story though I did really like Adrian.
Beautiful, charming, intelligent, and an expert gambler, Deb has many suitors for her hand, the most determined of which is young Adrian Mablethorpe.
When his mother, Lady Mablethorpe, learns of Adrian's attentions, she is horrified, not only by his choice of bride, but also because she intends for him to marry his wealthy - and equally foolish - cousin Arabella.
Lady Mablethorpe calls on her nephew, the formidable Max Ravenscar, to do something about the situation.
Max assumes he can just throw some money at Deb and she will break things off with Adrian.
