https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/557226.Five_on_a_Secret_Trail
The quality of Enid Blyton's work dips sharply at about the time this book was published.
Someone - someone with fearless endeavor - must have felt it his duty to tell her to man up.
Hence her last creative bursts of imagination, with Five on Finniston Farm sealing a remarkable life.I must get to Enid Blyton's biography by Barbara Stoney, these days.
She is a fascinating figure.
I owe a lot of my anglo-centric literary aptitude to her.
Enid Blyton's ghostwriters must be spinning in their grave.
The best part about reading this book was that I was reading my mum's old hardback copy from when she was a child.
If you want to know how they were stupid, click the spoiler below:(view spoiler)[They encounter a boy.
and NOT ONCE does it enter their heads that they're talking to a pair of twins.
No, to the Five, it's MUCH more likely that it's the same boy playing head games with them.
You could chalk it up to this being a kids' book but nowhere in the previous fourteen books in this series are the Five this stupid.
Besonders der Anfang ist mal was Neues, Mädchenferien bis die Jungs eintrudeln. Ein mysteriöser Junge und mal ein bisschen ein anderes Setting macht diese Folge besonders. [23.09.2018]
Unusually for the five, this story begins with George alone having a minor adventure with Timmy.
He gets a cut on his ear, and George, determined to get people to stop laughing at him, packs up and decides to camp out for a few days.
Soon she is joined by Anne, who while camping at night, sees unusual lights floating near a wrecked cottage.
It is only then that the boys show up unexpectedly early from a holiday in France, and the mystery deepens.I liked that the children soon realized they were being tricked- after all their adventures up to this point they had to realize something like this was possible.
Well the book was okay. The two twins, don't remember the name, were really exciting. When the Five discovered that bag which had the blue prints, I was feeling that now the adventure is over. But when they didn't find the blue prints, I thought that the adventure is still not over. At the beginning, the novel was really boring as Julian and Dick were not there. But they came and the novel too came to life. I would give this book 2 stars**.
an entertaining book
Kid fiction is fun to read.ReviewThe plotThe plot is always that the five of the characters get into some trouble while seeking adventure.
They solve mysteries, save others from trouble, eat a lot of delicious food.
Does it sound like HP?
And HP has a great world built inside the books.
The charactersI like how the characters are built.
I can remember them for their character traits.
George: A slightly arrogant, but likable daughter, raised more like a son.
Anne: Geroge's cousin.
Almost opposite of George, behaves most sensibly.
Julian & Dick: Anne's brothers.
Timmy: George's dog.
VerdictFor kids, must read.
I recently read a poll listing the UK's favorite authors and was shocked to see an unfamiliar name in the #1 slot - Enid Blyton.
So I looked Ms. Blyton up and learned that she wrote children's adventure/mystery stories in the mid 20th century.
This was obviously a nostalgic vote, but I still felt that I had to read at least one of her stories and tracked down "Five on a Secret Trail".
As an adult, it's a little harder to read decades-old children's lit.
(hide spoiler)] But I suppose it's the easy mysteries that draw kids in and lead them to Miss Marple and Sherlock Holmes later in life.
As with all Famous Five books, this is of the same trusted and successful formula. I loved these books as a child and I am delighted that my girls loved them as children too.The stories are adventures of a byegone age, yet still hold the attention of children, around the world...... they have stood the test of time well - and for a great reason.The stories are plausible, fun, adventurous and contain an excellent mix of young characters... with a little bit of everyone in each of them - something that children have obviously known for decades.
Petualangan KELIMA BELAS mereka yang seru dan mengasyikkan!Lima Sekawan pergi berkemah di dekat reruntuhan rumah tua. Tapi benarkah rumah itu tak ada penghuninya? Soalnya di malam hari Anne mendengar bunyi-bunyian aneh. Waktu ia memberitahu yang lainnya, mereka tak percaya. Sampai mereka melihat sinar menyeramkan di tengah malam...
These books (Famous five) are hands down one of my favorite books from my childhood. All those adventures and mystery …and those sandwiches they always packed! aww, just the best! I would love to read one of these again. To bring back those memories..memories of first experiences with reading books.
This is one of the first books I ever remember reading alone, and will always have a soft spot in my heart. It remains one of my favourites out of the Famous Five series and was a wonderful book to read when I was young and still is just as enjoyable today.
It was amazing to read Famous Five again. Famous Five was the series that got me into reading!! I love it so much. This book was a great read it was so good to read a Famous Five book after all these years. This is my first summer read this year and it was fabulous.
This book is probably one of my least favorites in this series. I didn't at all think the Five are on a secret trail at all. The other kids in this book were really annoying as well. I mean really? Twins? I also didn't think this was one of there most interesting mysteries.
i liked this book because of the ghostly sounds and imagining it it was like lights in the stadium this book was about stolen blueprints which are very important and the blueprints were taken underground in a tunnel jibin
First book I ever read. Every chapter felt like an achievement
I read these books when I was ten years old or so. They tell me that Enid Blyton was racist. I didn't get the feeling when I read the books.. Perhaps I was too young to see it.
crecí leyendo sus libros y me sirvieron bien
Five On a Secret TrailBrief Summary by Poppy Hutchinson (from http://www.enidblytonsociety.co.uk/): Camping out, alone, in the moorland, near Kirrin Cottage – George and Anne see a series of strange flashing lights, one night from a derelict cottage, nearby.
The Five gradually become aware of the fact that someone is trying to scare them away from this desolate spot on the Common – but the question is: who and why?Random thoughts:So we start with George at Kirrin Cottage still waiting for her cousins.
Also, the fact that the children are not together for a good part of the book adds variety.Anne is the next one to arrive and she joins George, and soon the two girls are camping together.
In this episode, George and Anne have the opportunity to step out from behind Julian and Dick's shadow, as the 2 boys don't appear until about page 60.
Unfortunately, but not unsurprisingly, this doesn't happen.
Oh well.Also in this story there is a rather ludicrous situation with the a boy the bump into.
It is glaringly obvious what is happening, but it takes most of the book for them to find out, which is odd considering some of the more complicated puzzles they have solved in the past.All this aside, it is very much the standard, and enjoyable fare we are used to.
I loved the book and I read this when I was pretty young.
One thing that has always stuck to me about this book was the description of the water from the fountain, crystal cool against the lips and a parched throat, lying on heather, which felt like it was softer than a down comforter, nights under the stars and the food, oh goodness it always had my mouth watering, even the simplest egg and lettuce sandwiches or cold chicken, and even as the adventure, it lit up my little world.
Perhaps the dullest Five book I've reread yet!
I found the story completely lacking and there was hardly any excitement for a reader of any age never mind myself.
I am a huge Five fan - I still get excited about the prospect of rereading an adventure they stumble into, but this one never really got a few feet never mind in the air.
The Secret Trail didn't really come about until two thirds in and by that point you couldn't really care less what they found.
This book was a little different than most.
Second, when the boys arrive, it is unusual that Julian, who is the oldest and pretty astute, doesn’t think about the boys they talk to being twins!
Julian is usually pretty sharp.
Lastly, none of the five get caught.
One of the twins gets caught instead.
So, all in all, I liked it for having some differences from other books.
(The one flaw being that when the five saw each of the twins, they probably were wearing different clothes which Julian should have noticed considering he noticed so much about the “old”lady.)
One of my favourite Famous 5 adventures, which kicks off when George leaves home in the middle of the night because she feels like everyone is laughing at her beloved Timmy (who had a misadventure that ended with him needed to wear a cardboard collar). Before long George and Timmy are joined by Anne and soon Dick and Julian. Throw in a pair of feuding twins with a passion for archeology, a group of crooks on the prowl for riches and a permanently angry at being interrupted Uncle Quentin - and you’ve got a cracking read...
This was quite a good one! When Ann and George are camping without the boys they end up camping in a strange old cottage. Then they meet a boy a very strange boy, when Julian and Dick arrive the girls decide to stay to help solve the mystery. What follows in a fun journey on a secret trail, wheat will the five discover.Another good story in the series, this all seemed full of new ideas rather than using bits from other stories.
An old cottage, archaeological digs, a mystery in the making!I absolutely adored Famous Five as a child. I trawled through secondhand stores and slowly acquired all of them. For some reason in my childhood, there were lots of British books and comics widely available and back then they were sold for the mighty sum of 10 cents. Seems funny now when some of the secondhand shops charge $7-10 per book! I still have all of them safely saved in storage for when Little Miss grows up.
B.R.A.CE. 2018 Ένα βιβλίο που αγόρασες από δεύτερο χέρι   I bought this book from Hay-on-Wye during the festival! Since my childhood I enjoyed reading the adventures of Famous Five and the other books of Enid Blyton. I had a quite good collection in Greek and now I try to build my English collection as well. Not much really to say about the story. I enjoyed it as I did when I was a kid :)
I KNOW they’re a product of their time, but honestly the fact that every time Julian and Dick show up George and Anne get shafted is starting to wear me down. The beginning, where it’s just the two girls on their own, highlights the disparity for me. Still, secret passages and important blueprints, I flew through this one and enjoyed it.
Semua novel Lima Sekawan menyisakan kenangan indah bagi saya yang waktu itu masih SD/SMP saat membacanya pertama kali. Imajinatif banget menggambarkan kehidupan anak2 di barat karna dulu masih jarang film hollywood yang bisa ditonton.
My favorite childhood read.
