https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7907803-an-object-of-beauty
Ultimately, Martin’s book works very well both as a metaphor for the “bubble” era when the “value” of things proved to be resting on nothing but air, as well as a fascinating look into a world that at least I probably would have no other way of seeing.The only thing about all this is that the distance that a private, intellectual man telling a story puts between himself and his audience, even one about how he got hurt and compromised his values because of a woman, tends to make it difficult for the reader to get emotionally involved with the story.
(I listened to this on audio, read by the marvelous Campbell Scott, but I recommend getting a print copy so you can see the pictures.)I have read and admired many of Steve Martin's books.
I loved his comedy memoir, Born Standing Up, and I enjoyed his previous novels, Shopgirl and The Pleasure of My Company, but this novel felt more aspirational, more like a love letter to both the art world and the great social climbers of literature, such as Becky Sharp or Daisy Buchanan.I am a longtime fan of Mr. Martin, for his movies, books, his overall good-naturedness and cleverness, and this novel only increased my admiration.
You're probably above all these art world commerce, and thus can just skip the book and go watch TV!If you want to know more about why, and how do old masters and contemporary art sell so well even though it's likely nobody understands Koons (unless you're an art school graduate, in which it's very unlikely you'll be able to afford it anyway), then An Object of Beauty is probably a good start.
Even the sex scenes feel like reading a shopping list.Anyway, I'm probably just giving it 2 stars because I'm all pretentious and think contemporary shit art for shit art's sake still has value other than a price tag.
As a giant Steve Martin fan, and one who loved his novels "Shopgirl" and "The Pleasure of My Company," I found his newest novel absolutely disappointing.Taking place in the stuffy New York City world of fine art collecting and dealing, "An Object of Beauty" follows Lacey Yeager through her nearly two-decade career in Manhattan.
While Martin's writing is well done, the story itself is forgettable in just about every way.
It seems he embraces the insane art world he depicts here.
However, Martin shows a lot of skill in writing about art.
The story is told by an art writer who introduces us to his one-time love and then perpetual platonic friend Lacey Yeager—starting when they’ve both landed in New York City where Lacey joins “the spice rack of girls at Sotheby’s.” Lacey quickly advances from the “dim basement” where she measures and catalogs art to manipulating herself as an “object of beauty” in order to climb the gilded art-world ladder.And now for an interlude about Voice: The fact that this book is written by Steve Martin and that he is so famous that you cannot not know his voice is a liability for readers who value the alchemy of words and brain function, with no intermediary reader interpreting.
This is a tale which renders a fascinating portrait of the inside world of art dealers in New York City in the 90s as shown through the trajectory of young Lacey as she starts as a poorly paid intern at Sotheby’s auction house and works her way up to running her own gallery.
And with so many new billionaires in the world wanting to invest or decorate their towers in style, a popular artist could see their work shoot up in market value like a rocket (e.g. Basquiat moving up from graffiti art or Mapplethorpe producing a cross sunk in a bottle of urine).Greatness in works of art she learns is independent of the skills in mastery of craft.
I highly recommend this novel, if not for the characters, story line, or art history lesson, then for the pictures, which I loved him adding.
He knew the art world like he'd LIVED the art world, and knew all the characters intimately.
I didn't like the character, but I don't think you're supposed to, unless you identify with her.
I was more than enjoying the novel.
He is truly gifted, in many, many ways.
I cannot wait until he prints his next gift to us, the public.
The working title for this could have easily been N.Y. Story, which is a little bit of a surprise from the very-Californian Steve Martin.
The book is a tour through close to two recent decades of NYC life, as seen through the prism of the city's art world.
At times it seems like the art history lessons and plot/character bits were written separately and spliced together, but more often than not they hang together well enough.
The book is a quick, enjoyable read that's especially tailored for New Yorkers, art people, and anyone who wants to spend a little more time with either.
Her attitude towards things was mildly different at first but as the story went on, it felt selfish and uncaring at times even though she didn't come across as mean-spirited exactly.Hard to describe to a T, she was...
herself and unapologetic about it.The writing is rich, witty, and kept my attention the whole time.
Steve is a a talented writer, his style is what kept me going and interested in seeing how everything would turn out.The way things go for Lacey, seemed not inevitable exactly...
Either way, I wasn't surprised with how things went for her.
I would give this 2.5 stars if possible but rounded up to three. I came soooo close to abandoning this one. For the first half I felt like there wasn't much plot. It's a story about a woman living in NYC involved in the business of buying and selling art. She is not a likeable person. Very narcissistic. In the second half the story picked up a bit. Very interesting learning about the art world (there are some pictures of the artwork mentioned in the story which was nice). It ended up being not too bad of a read.
Martin's love of art and a real vicious cynicism about the art market is what makes this book worth buying.
Perhaps Capote’s book works better because it’s a novella and Capote doesn’t give us time to parse out Holly Golightly’s motives.
She’s something of a monster and yet everyone loves her?And I guess that was what Martin was trying to do, have Lacey Yeager be a metaphor for the art market.
Ultimately, I think Martin was trying to have her be both a work of art but also emblematic of the art market.
I picked this audiobook up on a whim, and really, really ended up really enjoying it.
In my opinion, the writing was really top-notch.
The story is charming and insightful, and subtle.
It's character-focused, without being the sort of self-indulgent literary thing that I really dislike.
The story itself centers around several characters who work in the New York art world.
(At least not in the paintings-in-galleries and Picassos-going-to-auction sense.) Despite this, the story was completely engaging to me.
The story always moved along at a good clip, and there was no space wasted on descriptive digression.
Whereas it is more of the same, in that it is great fiction with well developed characters, humor, insight, etcetera, there is a not insignificant difference here.
This novel is actually very closely blended with a nonfiction expose of the art world.
The difference was that I was now embracing Martin's approach to this novel, having done with my previous expectations.
For several characters, but especially Lacey, involvement in the art world turns these fine art pieces from objects of beauty to...
I admire him for all of the above, but especially for his novels (The Pleasure of My Company, Shopgirl, An Object of Beauty) and this play, "Picasso at the Lapin Agile".
Reading Steve Martin's new book is a pleasure best reserved for someone with an interest in art.
REALLY?!")It's only been in recent months I've learned of Martin's avid love for art as both a collector and—if this novel is any indication—expert on the subject.
MY FAVORITE AMERICAN ARTIST!)The story follows the life of Lacey Yeager, a young, vivacious woman determined to make her way to the top of the art scene, and is told through the perspective of her friend, Daniel (for reasons that become clear by novel's end).
She becomes a dealer and he is a writer for an art magazine.The book starts out with a couple of gentle teasers: “I am tired, so very tired of thinking about Lacey Yeager, yet I worry that unless I write her story down, and see it bound and tidy on my bookshelf, I will be unable to ever write about anything else.” From page 4: “It was apparent to everyone that Lacey was headed somewhere, though her path often left blood in the water.” Why can’t the now world-weary narrator forget her?
Mixed review: Character study 5 stars.
Humor 2 stars.
Plot and storyline: 3 stars.
There are several major plot threads that simply go nowhere or are resolved in uninteresting ways, as though Martin either got bored with them or decided they would be too much of a hassle to spin out or explain.
Huge hints dropped but no payoff.
Is Patrice hinting once more at the end?
Tour de force of NY art scene: 5 stars.
Almost makes me want to live there.
I was more pulled into the characters this time, less concerned with the plot twists.
This third novel by comedian and actor Steve Martin boasts a great opening line, which I found impossible to resist:I am tired, so very tired of thinking about Lacey Yeager, yet I worry that unless I write her story down, and see it bound and tidy on my bookshelf, I will be unable to ever write about anything else.The narrator is Daniel, an art writer in 1990s New York.
First off, I think Steve Martin is brilliant. I would buy him lunch any day just to listen to his stories. This book is a look at the art world in New York. Some interesting moments, but many moments I found just... meh. I would say the book is best suited to those who love art and/or New York.As I try to write this review I agree with Steve...“Some people have a way with words, and other people...oh, uh, not have way.”
Nevertheless, in reading An Object Of Beauty, I kept wishing that at least bits of Martin's dry comedic voice would enter into this slow, vaguely disappointing book.
It took about two paragraphs to get the obvious metaphor of the title, that the 'object of beauty' here was not the artworks the main character handles at her job, but the girl herself.
The writing was fine, but the story lacking, and I was left wondering if this book would've been published at all if it weren't tied to Steve Martin's name.
If we are going to consider women as objects of beauty, let's give them a little more credit than this tired routine.
I liked Steve Martin's Shopgirl a lot, and I'm also into art, so I thought I'd enjoy this book more.
The best thing about it is that Steve Martin knows how to write about art; his descriptions of the many paintings in this book are readable and beautiful, better than the stuff you'll get from major art critics any day.
Martin writes about the art world from the 90s to the present with clarity and authority.But: I wish Martin's characters here were as interesting as his art musings.
As a vehicle for describing the trajectory of the art world, Lacey makes perfect sense.
I’m not going to say that it was the best damn book I have ever read but that it did what a story is supposed to do, entertain.
I purposely read it slow because of the author’s voice.
I wanted the words to flow around in my mind a little longer than usual, so I could recreate the art it was painting right before my eyes.
I found myself staring longingly at the few pictures of different art pieces contained within its pages, even stopping to lookup whatever pieces that were mentioned and not included.
It is never really clear why he knows all the things he knows, and it was annoying that Martin chose to use the narrator to key readers into the fact that Martin knows this world, from personal experience as an art collector, and obviously, much research.
I got so tired of tangential asides about this or that person or this or that auction, as these distracted from the story and became really annoying after a while.
Power hungry and eager to make her name and her fortune in the art world, sure, I buy that.
Interesting description of the art world and collectors.
Unlikeable main character, i found her unrelatable, described as being vibrant and funny but the scenes intended to demonstrate these were not successful - so awkward in a way that makes me wonder if it needed a physical context like Steve Martin's humor.
Felt like a less successful reworking of Shopgirl except she doesn't grow.
She doesn't come across as a real person, just a vehicle for the industry and times.Still, I liked the novel.
The short chapters pulled me through.
It's unkind, but the writing feels like dumbed down literature that I could understand.
He's a good writer - smooth and strong, free of any celebrity author shortcuts, and if the prose is somewhat unspecial, it also leaves the characters room to breathe for themselves.
He perfectly captures the urgency and tirelessness of young ambition in NYC (as well as handy examples of how to work a room and manipulate powerful people!) and the trajectory of the story is also a thoughtful rendition of US economic history over the last two decades sketched through the art world.
Plus it's clear that he is informed and educated about art, and also loves and understands it.
!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!1
The only one that had any gravitas was Patrice and he was put through Lacey's life grinder early on.I love Mr. Martin's movies.
Perhaps if he'd written a non-fiction book about the art world, it would have spoken to me.I can tell that Mr. Martin knows art and loves it, thus his writing this novel.
The best parts of the book were the non-fiction parts when he discussed art, objects of beauty and what they mean to different people at different times.
Mr. Martin KNOWS art and those that surround it.
There was so much time and energy spent on the behind-the-scenes set up of the novel that the characters felt a little underdeveloped and stale.Even the few sex scenes that I managed to read through were dry and creaky (I was so disconnected from what was going on that I tweeted that it was creepy reading a sex scene written by Steve Martin, that it felt very much like walking in on my parents in the middle of the 'act').It was so unlike his other novels that I found myself peeking at the cover of the book to reconfirm that...yes...
Throughout this book I felt guilty, as I did not enjoy this book on any level, but I love Steve Martin on many levels.
In the end I concluded that the whole thing was a deliberate analogy for the rise of the ultra-monied nonsense of the pre-recession art world of the nineties and noughties, and the blank avarice of the protagonists is a comment thereon.
If you want to read a blank evocation of some well-dressed bellends, read this book.
If you want to know why I love Steve Martin, read this book -http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Born_Sta...
It's not that this book was bad.
It's just that its content didn't interest me.
It was an interesting insight into the art world and the lives of people who have excessive amounts of money to spend.
Also, I couldn't stop imagining Steve Martin as the author, which reminded me of watching a movie and then being unable not to imagine Leonardo DiCaprio as the main character while reading the book.Favorite line: "Her knack for causing heartbreak was innate, but her vitality often made people forgive her romantic misdeeds.
Now, however, she is nearing forty and not so easily forgiven as when her skin bloomed like roses."
It's not my usual fare, this heartbeat-away-from-yesterday contemporary New York story with a fashion plate protagonist, but I gobbled it up in two bouts of insomnia this week.
I've read Steve Martin's two previous novels and enjoyed his laconic, sardonic style, so I was expecting more of the same.
She is everything I am not- beautiful, sophisticated, irresistible to men- (qualities that made me wonder if it is possible for a male author to write an interesting story about an average-looking woman); then again, Lacey is also manipulative, promiscuous, unethical- a bit of a skank, really.
