https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/37034.The_Woman_in_Black
“A man may be accused of cowardice for fleeing away from all manner of physical dangers but when things supernatural, insubstantial and inexplicable threaten not only his safety and well-being but his sanity, his innermost soul, then retreat is not a sign of weakness but the most prudent course.”  The young solicitor sent to Crythin Gifford to sort out the affairs of a recently deceased Mrs. Alice Drablow is a man by the name of Arthur Kipps.The people of Crythin Gifford are like the people of m
The young solicitor sent to Crythin Gifford to sort out the affairs of a recently deceased Mrs. Alice Drablow is a man by the name of Arthur Kipps.The people of Crythin Gifford are like the people of most small towns, suspicious of strangers and unwilling to help or provide information to outsiders.
Kipps is curious, but he has a job to do out at Eel Marsh House to sort through a lifetime of accumulated Drablow paperwork, so he shrugs off the apparition and focuses back on his task.
At that moment I began to doubt my own reality.” I really liked the fact that Kipps reaches the conclusion that Eel Marsh House is haunted by a ghost.
I kept hearing about how this was a real honest-to-god, old-fashioned ghost story steeped in the tradition of James and James (Henry and Montague Rhodes)that delivered a frisson of genuine terror and some very fine writing as well.
The book is a pastiche of 19th century stylistic cliches, starting with a half-hearted Pickwickian Christmas, moving quickly to a Bleak House inspired description of fog, and soon settling into page upon page of lengthy sentences resembling those of middle-period Henry James, yet which--unlike those of the master--contain no fine distinctions of intellect or sensibility to justify their continual qualifying clauses.
It is short as horror books go, but far too long for what it has to say.
I was oversaturated with horror from a young age and tend to find it more laughable than spine-tingling.However, this book may be the only exception I have found so far.
For me to find this book, a book that is entirely a horror story, to be so enjoyable and so frightening is quite incredible.I don't need to tell you what it's about, you can read that in countless descriptions, but I do need to say just how much this scared me and had me sleeping with the light on all night and jumping up at every single creak and sigh.
NARRATOR Arthur Kipps, the main character and the narrator is very pragmatic and always tries to dismiss his fears and find a rational explanation, which serves to make his story more believable – and thus more alarming.
Kipps himself is a bit of a birdwatcher, and different birds make fleeting appearances: a menacing “snake-necked bird”, the woman in black looking like a carrion bird, a nice happy robin later on.PROBLEMS WITH TIMEThe first chapter jumps around in a confusing way, which doesn’t really matter plot-wise, but is disconcerting.
And don’t believe those who say it is like a ghost story written by Jane Austen!
Rating Clarification: 2.5 stars.Disappointing and predictable, this Gothic ghost story isn't a patch on the classics of the genre such as Henry James' The Turn of the Screw.
The writing is uneven and the author fails to keep the suspense building often interspersing awkward/boring moments between the tense scenes, which unfortunately were all too few.
The writer appeared to be trying for a classic Victorian tone, but there were mentions of motor cars and electric lights.
From what I've seen in the trailers, it looks like the film embraces the full horror of the classic Victorian ghost story which is something the book failed to do.
After finishing and loving The Silent CompanionsI really wanted to another gothic/period style ghost story to creep me out and when The Woman In Black came up in in my recommendations feed I was excited about the novel after reading the book's blurb.
Having loved The Silent Companions 
An ok read but not a book that will cause me any nightmares.
R. James started this trend, and all others seem to be following it.Susan Hill starts her novel, "The Woman in Black", showing Arthur Kipps, an elderly lawyer and the first person narrator, having a quiet Christmas Eve with his family.
Things take a turn for the worse when Arthur sights a woman dressed all in black, with a wasted and ravaged face - apparently a ghost.Ignoring his misgivings, the young lawyer takes up residence at the house on Eel Marsh, but is unable to complete his work as the haunting grows stronger and scarier.
The start of the book reminded me of The Turn of the Screw as this also starts with a similar narration pattern and both these stories revolve around an isolated house.But that is where the similarity ends.The setting of 'Eel Marsh House' is spooky, it is foggy surrounded by marshes and the accessibility to the house is blocked during high tide....Arthur see's The Woman in Black and then start's experiencing unusual things.
Wonderfully, spooky, tragic story.
The narrator does a frighteningly good job of conveying the absolute horror that young Arthur Kipp experiences when he travels on behalf of his legal firm to tie up the loose ends of a client who has died.
He has no idea what he is going to find when he plans on staying at the malevolent house under the hateful, evil watch of the deadly woman in black.
Arthur has no idea that seeing her will haunt him for the rest of his life.
A chilling ghost story to get into the Halloween spirit.
Accurate replication of the feelings of fear are all very well, but real terror will strike only when you give me something physical to envision(view spoiler)[, a movie favorite of mine being the main character stepping up to a window, our view from the opposite side allowing us, and only us, to watch with horror the ghostly visage coming up alongside him.
Because of Arthur Kipps' curiosity, he manages to dig the stories and the ghost of the mysterious woman in black that hunted the town since 60 years ago.God, if only I read this book at night I might shrivel to death or shout for help.
It was amazing, yes, and I recommend this to all people who wants to read horror book this coming November.
.Rating: The Woman in Black by Susan Hill, 5 SweetsChallenges:Book #258 for 2011
This hardcover book is copy 40 of 300 (Plus 20 copies for contributors) printed and signed by:Susan HillReggie Oliver - (interior art)Simon Prades - (cover art)
Spoooooooooky!!!👍🐯
there's never final tears, sadness can last forever, some people we just can never bury even when we're deadthe whole hole in our chest will still remain, when the ocean pours in, it still leaks...reminiscing can kill, love loves blood~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~irene, when i remembered you in the mid of some night, i coughed like a dud grenade exploding, i just felt the hole in my chest that wud never be filled.
it was not like emptiness which cud be somehow filled, no, it's not like an abyss, it's a barathrum.
A very good ghost story with creepy sounds, a marsh with lots of fog and danger, and a haunting revengeful spirit. I was all set to give this book a strong 3 stars until the last chapter's chilling, horrid surprise ending. Now I can't wait to see the movie with Daniel Radcliffe. This is a GREAT October read!
Das Buch hat sich leider unglaublich gezogen & die meiste Zeit ist nichts passiert.Allerdings waren die Schlüsselmomente umso atmosphärischer und haben mir wirklich gut gefallen. Das Ende war ab einem bestimmten Punkt des Buches relativ vorhersehbar, aber trotzdem gut.Gucke mir die Tage den Film an :)
In an age (the 80's) when horror was at its peak and ravening monsters of supernatural and human types ravaged the bookstores, Susan Hill decided to write a Victorian ghost story using modern sensibilities but the distinctive flair of the classics.Since then, it's enjoyed modest popularity and I don't doubt why.
It tugs at the heartstrings, from sympathy and shared horror to the mystery and even the heartwarming companionship of a plucky dog on the moor during the darkest hours.And then there's the expected and satisfying twist at the end that is the core of all classic ghost stories.I really don't have any complaints because it was amusing and craftily wrought, but make no mistakes...
2.5 rounded up to 3 stars.I was very disappointed with this book.
It's much shorter than I thought it was going to be, for one.
That's my fault for not checking to see how many pages it was.I found the prose to be overly descriptive.
I get it, the house is located in a marsh by the sea.
I get it that there is fog.
I get it that the only road to the house is underwater during high tide.
Enough already, where is the woman?Even when the woman shows up, the story continues to be boring.
I did not find this book to be even remotely scary.
I purchased my copy of The Woman in Black at the gift shop whilst seeing the play in the West End. It’s was one of them stories that I really should have read by now.I really liked the structure of the story as the main protagonist Arthur Kipps recounts he’s experience of ghosts whilst working as a junior solicitor.The secluded house is effective and creepy whilst the reason of the haunting is incredibly chilling.
Lectura con el grupo 221 b Baker street "La forma de desterrar a un viejo fantasma que sigue apareciendo consiste en exorcizarlo." Esta novela se siente como las historias clásicas de monstruos, donde estos casi no aparecían, pero su leyenda se había extendido al grado que, aun antes de que el protagonista de hecho los viera en acción, ya empezaba a encontrarse atormentado por él. Dejando de lado el gore que actualmente abunda en el ambiente del terror (en todas sus formas), en esta novela la am
Hablar de loes personajes es complicado, principalmente porque cpnstituyen mi mayor problema con esta lectura, y en segundo porque básicamente sólo vemos a Arthur, y por momentos al resto, a quienes solo conocemos a través de la percepción de Arthur, la cual, para el momento que esta narrando la historia, se encuen tra distorcionada por lo que todos dan la sensación de ser personas increíblemente desagradables.Puedo decir que esta novela bastante buena, la manera en que esta narrada es penetrante, aunque se siente más como un relato corto dado que pasa bastante rápido, pero lo que se lleva la corona es el final.
Hmm. A pseudo-Victorian gothic ghost story that has a very un-Victorian length of 140 pages.
It reminds me of 14 year old me when I started reading things like Dracula, Frankenstein, Wuthering Heights, Jane Eyre and thinking 'there's not much to this writing a classic novel business- I should give it a try'.
Although as the ending is...upsetting to say the least (it is the ONLY harrowing bit of the book and is well-written enough to make you feel a jolt of...something) it is so obvious and so expected as to be almost a shock when it actually happens!
Christmas was once known as a time for ghost stories (and in some places, still is).
As we start this one, a family is sitting around the fire trying to one up each other, all save Arthur Kipps who wants nothing to do with ghost stories.
As such it is trying to give us a classic feel, which is all well and good and works for the most part, but it does lead to one of my two problems with the book.
It is a wonderful atmospheric ghost story, that is creepy just as much for what it DOESN’T show as what it does.
I've watched the movie recently & became so excited to read the novel. Actually, I don't consider it a novel, because it's more like a short amusing story. Indeed, the movie was more thrilling,  in my point of view,  because I liked the changes that were made in the original incidents of the story. Undoubtedly, I enjoyed reading it but unfortunately, its Plot was somehow weak & too short; I wished if it could have been little more prolonged. Even the language the author had used was extremely simple, It wasn't literary. That's all what I didn't like about it.
I have known of this story for some time and I will admit I have wanted to read it even before the film (and now its sequel) but it wasnt until recently that I found the book (dont ask books seem to disappear in to the void that is my collection).
I guess this book proves that a good story can be delivered in fewer pages than you think (or publishers want).
A bit of a fun ghost story, complete with a house right out of Poe.
"I looked up ahead and saw, as if rising out of the water itself, a tall, gaunt house of gray stone with a slate roof, that now gleamed steelily in the light."Our narrator first confronts the woman in black in a graveyard.
How appropriate is that?
The story is Gothic in flavor, reminiscent of The Turn of the Screw, and crammed with cliches that work perfectly.
I liked that Hill built into the story right away and kept it quick and clean.
But as Arthur comes to find out, the house is shrouded in more than just fog, as it holds the secret to the inexplicable sighting of the woman in black.When I first began to read this book, a sense of horror washed over me.
everyone seems to know the whole story concerning the old house and the ghostly woman, but simply refuse to speak about it with Mr Kipp.Overall, this was a quick, vaguely entertaining read, if a tad predictable.
My only worry is how they'll turn what was essentially a very small book into a full-length film.I'd recommend it to those who are into classics and are looking for a quick, light read.
Visit my blog!’Yes, I had a story, a true story, a story of haunting and evil, fear and confusion, horror and tragedy.StorylineArthur Kipps is a junior solicitor from London who has been asked by his employer to attend the funeral of Mrs. Alice Drablow in Crythin Gifford.
Arthur sees the woman in black at Mrs. Drablow’s funeral and again at her residence at Eel Marsh House.
She doesn’t appear to be a malevolent spirit so Arthur doesn’t worry too much and decides to spend the night at the house so that he can quickly finish his work and return to London.
But that night, Arthur begins to hear unexplainable sounds and worries that he may have underestimated the woman in black.
She's able to describe the world surrounding her characters with such detail I could actually be there, smelling the morning dew, feeling the biting wind on my skin, sensing the fear that grips Arthur Kipps that fateful day...Her writing mesmerises me and I cannot bare to put her books down, and I've read many, all with their own uniqueness, but none, for me, come close to the darkly atmospheric 'The Woman in Black'.The reader is pulled into the story with teasing snippets as we learn about Kipps' ghostly past.
Lectura rápida, entretenida y perfecta para estas fechas :)
3.5 Stars Apparently I'd had this book on my radar (AKA: Goodreads To-Read list) for a long time, but forgot all about it - until the movie starring Harry Potter Daniel Radcliff was being advertised all over the place.
Usually, the steadfast lead adamantly refuses to believe or even entertain the thought of the situation not being of mundane cause - but Arthur surprised me, and I liked that.
The initial chapters of the book felt a little long and unnecessary to me, and at the 1/3 mark the real story had barely even started.
