https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/71300.Asterix_and_the_Soothsayer
Svi koji zovu i vjeruju vidovitom Milanu (i njemu sličnima) bi trebali ovo pročitati. Samo se bojim kako ih pola ne bi shvatilo.
Asterix and the Soothsayer (Astérix #19), René Goscinny, Albert Uderzo
Reencuentro con la infancia. Un imprescindible del cómic y la literatura infantil. Está claro que debe retraducirse, dado que tiene muchos errores (también aciertos), pero tal y como está el panorama con la publicación de los Astérix, con que los chavales puedan seguir accediendo a estos tesoros me conformo.
Der böse MentalistDieser Astérix-Band ist ganz klar ein Gegenentwurf zur von mir sehr geliebten Fernsehserie "The Mentalist" - Der Seher in diesem Band nutzt seine Cold-Reading-Fähigkeiten bei zugegebenermaßen etwas leichtgläubigen gallischen Hinterwäldlern aus, um sich materielle Vorteile zu erschleichen.
Dass er dabei Unfrieden im Dorf sät, und Astérix der einzige ist, der sich nicht von den "nach Regen kommt Sonnenschein"-Vorhersagen des Trickbetrügers das Hirn verschwurbeln lässt, ist ihm egal - bis ihm seine Fähigkeit auf die eigenen Füße fällt...
Eine nette Parodie auf Horoskopgläubige, die sich gern die Karten bei der Wahrsagerin legen lassen, und die Schwierigkeiten, die Skeptiker haben, sich mit Gläubigen auseinanderzusetzen.
For some reason I never used to like Soothsayer. I have reformed my opinion. A charlatan Soothsayer comes to the village, driving the Gauls into a frenzy of ambition and envy. The Romans see an opportunity, only for Centurion Voluptuous Arteriosclerosus to himself become convinced by the Soothsayer. Chaos and biffing follow...
What is a soothsayer to do when confronted by Asterix?He should've run away. Luckily, he didn't, so Asterix and Getafix get to set him straight.I'm with Obelix, no dog readers for me, thank you!
Ein Unwetter tobt, und die Gallier sind alle im Haus des Majestix versammelt, schliesslich könnte ihnen doch der Himmel auf den Kopf fallen!
Da Obelix nicht zulässt, dass der Fremde die Zukunft des gallischen Dorfes aus den Eingeweiden von Idefix liest, begnügt sich dieser eben mit einem alten Fisch.
Doch nicht nur die Gallier, sondern auch die Römer sind leichtgläubig und rasch davon überzeugt, dass Lügfix ein echter Seher ist.
So ist zum Beispiel der Zwischenfall, bei welchem Miraculix mit einem Hinkelstein getroffen wird, aus dem zweitgenannten Band, wohingegen die Geschichte mit dem Seher aus diesem Band stammt (wie der Titel ja auch schon sagt).
This book tells us not to believe to soothsayer. God has his willing. Think first before we believe what people said.The story began with a terrible storm in the village that scared everyone, especially because the druid was not in the village. Then, the soothsayer came and told everything, people began to belive what he said. Not only the Gaul, even the Roman believed what he said. That's why we need to think clearly before we believe what people said, especially if that come from a big mouth person.
A lucky find - I love all the Asterix comics!
Damals wie Heute - wenig hat sich hier veröndert, nur die Profession, wo früher diese Leute herumgereist sind um im Kleinen agiert haben, sind sie seit Jahrzehnten nun mithilfe technischer Hilfsmittel in der Welt angekommen.Zeitgleich mit dem Band war mir damals die große Welt der Sektenbetreiber nahe gebracht worden, ganz groß in Amerika, aber auch Europa blieb davon nicht ganz verschont.
Spannend wie sehr ein Comic dabei helfen kann und Zweifel aufkommen lassen kann, dass man dem Gesagten zwar Beachtung aber auch Kritik zukommen lassen kann.
I remember reading this as an eight year old and not really understanding what was going on with Prolix the Soothsayer. I think I still believed he was magical even by the end which, of course, is the point. We should see him as a fraud from the word go. So, while this wasn't a favourite first time round, in the same way something like Asterix at the Olympic Games was, it's a great read some years after.
Far from my favorite in the series. The redundant interactions between soothsayer and centurion wear. I did enjoy the fish-linked humor bits, and the discussions about the reliability of entrail reading as sources of prophecy made me laugh (and cringe when the soothsayer wants to use Dogmatix as reading material!). Does anyone else think the pirates need an intervention? Poor saps.
How intresting that a soothsayer may bring about the end of our favourite village. In the end as always, it all becomes just as we remember, a big feast at the end.
Asterix and Obelix have to keep their rational as a would be soothsayer creates havoc in the village and also among Romans!Maria Carmo,Lisbon, 20 March 2015.
Ottima storia. Il personaggio dell’indovino è davvero ben sviluppato e finisce col suscitare simpatia. Memorabile. Notevoli i paradossi del suo rapporto con i romani.
One of my favourites, with some excellent satire of psychics generally and the usual array of puntastic names.
Fun. The first I have read from the series, and I will be back for more.my favorite quote: "Can I have a taste?"
Πολύ γέλιο....Ο ΑΣΤΕΡΙΞ μας κάνει μέχρι σήμερα να γελάμε!
During a bad storm, a soothsayer arrives in our Gaulish village. Most of the villagers fall under his spell when he starts predicting favourable things about them. Only Asterix is the sceptic.Makes surprisingly deep statements about human nature; apart from that, standard Asterix fare.
That was good fun as usual. A soothsayer comes to the village during a storm and creates trouble as everyone starts taking him seriously. A good few laughs, and always nice to dive into the world of Astérix and Obelix for an hour.
Goscinny pistelee onnistuneesti ihmisten taikauskoisuutta ja taipumusta luottaa huijareihin jotka kertovat mukavia valheita. Myös tilannehuumori toimii.Asterix-seikkailuista parempia, joskaan ei paras.
one of the classic Asterix stories. Notable that the magic potion plays only the most minor part in the action and all the drama results from the great characters.
Want to know your future? Consulting a soothsayer may be just the answer.
Klassinen synkkä ja myrskyinen yö -tarina, jonka muistan myös jo lapsuudesta. Kai tämä on sitä Asterixin kulta-aikaa. Hyvä albumi, toki ehkä vähän nostalgiaplussaa arvostelussa.
Une de mes séries BD préférées de l'enfance!
It was a dark and stormy night, when a stranger knock the door and asks for shelter.... A bit later wants to "read" Intefix bones and Ovelix is furious... and the troubles begin!
Le Devin - René GoscinnyRating: ★★★Review coming soon!
Mange år sidan sist eg las denne. Trur kanskje det er perioden frå Le chaudron og utover til omtrent cadeau de cesar som er sterkast i serien.
Só astérix é cético, mas o adivinho com meia dúzia de verdades de la palisse e dizendo às pessoas aquilo que elas querem, consegue agradar-lhes e apesar de sair da aldeia, todos vão ter com ele, quase às escondidads, começando por bonemine a mulher do chefe.Quando os romanos capturam o adivinho, os gauleses julgam que foi astérix, e receiam cataclsimos.O adivinho no campo romano, perante a ameaça de que todos os mágicos gauleses vão ser presos e degredados confessa ser uma fraude, mas que contudo conseguia enganar os gauleses.
Uma série de trocadilhos caraterísticos sobre ser ou não fraude e ter ou não poderes de adivinho, o que é certo é que ele chega à aldeia, diz que devem abandoná-la e todos o fazem exceto astérix e obélix, mas este com um certo receio.
It's a guy claiming to be a soothsayer (a fortune-teller).
Although he's a total fake, he manages to convince the villagers that he's real and they bring him lots of food and money.He ends up in the Roman camp and agrees to get the Gauls out of the village which he manages to do by pretending the village is cursed.
The Romans briefly occupy the village, but Getafix, Asterix and Obelix are able to get them to leave.The three then work on convincing the villagers that the soothsayer is a fake and they (sort of) finally understand.
Panoramix è via per l'incontro dei druidi è un indovino in una notte di tempesta si presenta al villaggio abbindolando tutti con false speranze. Tutti tranne Asterix che escogiterà un piano per smascherare il ciarlatano e far rinsavire gli amici.Albo dichiaratamente contro gli indovini e i veggenti e a favore dell'emancipazione femminile (le donne qui per la prima volta bevono la pozione magica). I personaggi vengono dipinti come creduloni, ma forse in fondo non piace a tutti sentirsi dire che il nostro futuro sarà meraviglioso?
Ho letto una volta un'intervista a Goscinny in cui affermava che questo è l'albo di Asterix che vendeva meno in ristampa, e ne dava la colpa alla copertina decisamente più cupa rispetto alle altre. Non so se sia vero, ma è vero che io stesso più volte rimandai l'acquisto di questo albo prediligendogli altre avventure di Asterix, e inconsciamente la copertina può aver avuto il suo effetto.Di certo non è una delle storie migliori, ma si lascia leggere e ha qualche momento veramente surreale e divertente.
My first Asterix comic... and it was sooooo cute and funny!!! Of course, I need to read more of them to get to the funniest of them all. Asterix and the Soothsayer was a very good way of introducing all the characters to me, and I laughed quite a bit at a few points. I just realised I haven't told goodreads that I have finished all the Tintin books- So I have to that ! :)
Book no 19 from Asterix and Obelix Series.In a stormy night Prolix has arrived in the Gaulish village. Prolix claims he's a soothsayer, and the townsfolk believe every word he says. Only Asterix knows better. How can he make all his friends see the truth?Good and funny book.
It was a dark and stormy night, and a sinister visitor has arrived in the little Gaulish village where Asterix lives. Prolix claims he's a soothsayer, and the townsfolk believe every word he says. Only Asterix knows better. How can he make all his friends see the truth? Asterix will have his job cut out for him as he battles to reveal the real Prolix before it is too late.
I haven't read any Asterix since my childhood. This wasn't as good as I remember them being, but still good. The only thing I didn't like at all, were the references to these modern times. Otherwise, a funny story. I need to start reading Asterix again!
AWESOME!!! There is nothing that comes close to Asterix - I have the whole series, both on e-books and hard-copy and they are some of most treasured possessions. I grew up with them and they are simply the best!
The future is told by the fortuneteller, however he is in for a surprise when Asterix is determined to prove him fake. The soothsayer falls into the hands of the Romans, whereas the whole Gaulish village is deceived as well. The confusion in the village and the utter confusion in the Roman camp as well!
Graphic novels aren't really my jam, but this is a good one if you're into that sort of thing.http://shakespeareswife.blogspot.co.u...
All Asterix books by Goscinny & Uderzo have been read aloud to me as a child and later reread by me. #childhoodmemories #childhoodfavourites #ohthefeels
How soothsayers/Godmen are made - a problem my own country knows only too well. It made me recall a quote - "Religion is regarded by the common people as true, by the wise as false, and by the rulers as useful."One of the most relatable and funniest Asterix books I've read.
Similar in many ways to Asterix and the Roman Agent, this sort of homage to An Inspector Calls is filled with chucklesome moments of mirth.
René Goscinnyn ja Albert Uderzon yhteistyön kirkkaita helmiä vuodelta 1972. Eurooppalaista pottunenäsarjakuvaa sieltä parhaasta päästä!
Scientific community has always been skeptical of astrology and soothsayers, but yet they themselves try to predict the future.
viejo pero aún pertinente. Un clásico de la colección. Una pe a no ver un poco más de la astucia de asterix y del druida
A sweet-talking soothsayer arrives at the village and soon fools everyone into believing his garbage, except the skeptical Asterix (the druid is out of town). The soothsayer soon manipulates the entire village into doing his bidding, until the Romans receive orders to arrest all soothsayers in the area (requiring a duplicitous game on the soothsayer’s part to survive).Humorous, with the obvious themes being gullibility and superstition.
Six out of ten. CBR format.On a dark and stormy night a Soothsayer arrives in town. Everyone believe his every word - except for Asterix of course.
impedimenta hits unhygenix after taking getafix' potion! this one takes the cake
Can't really remember this one but I'm sure it was great.
Brilliant!! I laughed so hard on this comic :-):D:D:D
