https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1314332.Before_I_Die
It's not as if I didn't know how it would end - the title says it all, but I didn't expect to be touched by the story to such a degree.The premise of Before I Die is quite simple - Tessa is 16 and dying of leukemia.
Trying to make the best of the time she has left, Tessa comes up with a list of things she would like to experience before she dies.
But mostly I loved that this book reminded me of importance of the most mundane things in my life - the ability to spend time with my family, to enjoy a simple walk, and to plan for future.
This review can be found at ReadingAfterMidnight.comI don't really know what to say about this book. I didn't like it that much, but I didn't hate it either.. The bad:For the most part of the story I didn't really care about Tessa, about her illness and her strange wishes (as I never got attached to her). I understand the desire to have a boyfriend, to be kissed and have sex, probably at her age this would be an important part of her life, but the other 'wishes' were kind of stupid and not the o
I just expected something else from her and I was disappointed by all this.More than this I hated her dumb friend who reminded her every 5 minutes that she's gonna die and who was NEVER there for her (and when she tried to help Tessa with her stupid wishes I just wanted to punch her for being such an idiot and not being a good friend at all), I hated her little brother telling her that he can't wait for her to be gone (sometimes he seemed to be 5 years old even if we've been told he was older), I hated her mother who seemed not to care about her at all.
Well, I suppose I am that monster, minus the whole baby-eating thing.It's not like the premise failed to pull at my heartstrings--as I read this book I genuinely felt for the girl.
This book never crosses the line into full on manipulation, though there are times I feel it comes close, but not enough to bother me.
I know she's dying but that doesn't give her an excuse to manipulate everyone around her into doing what she wants them to do.
Here's the deal: Tessa has a list of ten things she wants to do before she dies.
I started this book wondering, "Why am I reading this?" and I ended it wondering, "Why did I read this?" But my two reasons for thinking these things were very different.In the beginning, I felt like this book would be a repetition of "Skinny," a massive disappointment in which the author was enamored with the idea of a sick, frail, floundering heroine.
The heroine in this book started out looking more or less the same: "I'm sick, I'm gonna die, the world sucks, so leave me alone."Tessa begins the book by deciding that she wants to have sex before she dies.
We know three pages into “Before I Die” that sixteen-year-old Tessa won’t survive her leukemia--and that there’s plenty she still wants from life.
Her anger comes to us through her as she gives herself points for the imagined deaths of healthy strangers: “One point for the lump on her neck, raw and pink as a crab’s claw.” We feel her hunger for life as she licks an ice-cream stick until “the wood rasps my tongue.” We know her true well-wishes for those she loves as she dreams up a replacement for her boyfriend, a “girl with lovely curves and breath like oranges.”There’s nothing treacly here.
And even as the novel rushes toward its inevitably sad ending, you can't help but fall for Tessa's character and root for her even as she does the extreme, falls in love, and, ultimately, learns what it's like to really live.Before I Die is definitely one of the most poignant and riveting novels I've read in a long time.
I think I cried about five times during the last quarter of this.The thing is, you know from the very beginning that Tessa's going to die.
It was on my TBR too, so even better.This was a very sweet story, well written and a sincere rendition involving a sixteen year old girls' end of life.
Family relationships, sex, love and a little bit of recklessness, a best friend and an estranged mum all come together to create something that felt very real.I loved the relationship between brother and sister, and daughter and father.
There were many tender and touching scenes, and I was very sad as I turned the last page.
Innocent but heartfelt scenes of falling in love were realistic, and I think young girls would love this story.
The list includes some predictable items (breaking a few laws, driving, having sex) and a few curveballs (experiencing love, getting her parents back together) but most of the book is dedicated to Tessa’s experiences as she attempts to finish her list and come to terms with her death.
It’s hard to know what to do when people are sick, or how to help your friends when they are losing or have lost someone.
I felt like the most interesting part of the book had nothing to do with Tessa’s list or her budding love.
(I loved that bit) And I also really enjoyed Tessa’s notes to her family and Zoey.
I can't help thinking that the author demands instant literary kudos simply by dealing with the uncomfortable subject of teenage death.
It provides no great profundity and, though poignant, I can't help but think it compares poorly to the 2003 movie, My Life Without Me.For a start, the central character, Tessa is hard to like.
Adam, the literal boy next door, is so gruff as to seem devoid of personality – merely a prop to deliver Tessa a chance at romantic love before she dies.Since the novel's summary spoils a major plot point, I will also talk about it: Zoey's pregnancy, a badly-veiled authorial device (life/death, geddit?), manages to glorify teen pregnancy.
This one snuck up on me.
I thought that I was reading just a sweet inspirational tale about a dying girl, and the next thing I know I'm sobbing in a Chinese restaurant on 8th Avenue.The review that inspired me to pick this one up, said that the only thing wrong with this book was that the publisher decided to market it as "young-adult", so it may never get the readership it deserves.It was reminiscent of Nicholas Sparks', A Walk to Remember, but with much more of an edge.
The girl in this novel is making a list of things that she wants to do before she dies, and they are things like sex, drugs, shoplifting...I highly recommend this one.
I was quite young when I first read this but it broke my heart ! This had funny moments but was also a tear jerker. I had difficulty finishing the last pages as I was blinded by tears. I haven't read it since then but I think the younger me would have given the book this rating.
Così reale da farti male. Malissimo.Mio padre è morto a mezzanotte del 1 Febbraio 2016.Tumore al polmone destro, con metastasi surrenali e cerebrali. Negli ultimi mesi si è esteso alla pelle e alle ossa. Ci ha messo otto mesi per divorarlo, neanche un anno.Non avrei dovuto acquistare questo libro.Non avrei dovuto vedere il film, qualche settimana fa.Non avrei dovuto leggere questo libro.Perché l'ho vissuto, e anche noi non siamo riusciti a salvare papà.  E' da troppo tempo che sto male, la malat
E' da troppo tempo che sto male, la malattia mi ha gonfiato il corpo e l'ha fatto marcire, mi ha chiazzato la pelle, sfaldato le unghie, sterminato i capelli e riempito di nausea fin dentro le ossa.Non ho vissuto bene questa lettura, ed è comprensibile, no?
Non credo in queste cose, ma riconosco che Adam è stato il custode di Tessa, fino alla fine.
"E' la cosa più dolorosa che abbia mai fatto in vita mia, ma ti amo.
Alla fine, Tess, scivolerai via."L'ultima cosa che sono riuscita a dire a mio padre, quando ancora mi sentiva, è stata: «Stasera fa Pretty Little Liars, lo sai?».
Όταν ξέρεις από την αρχή πως η ιστορία σου δεν είναι ευχάριστη, δεν έχει happy end και καταπιάνεται με ένα δύσκολο θέμα τον καρκίνο μπαίνουν πολλές σκέψεις για το αν είσαι στην διάθεση να το διαβάσεις.
Μέσα όμως από την φιλία της με τον γείτονα η Tessa βρίσκει ένα φωτεινό σημείο στην ζωή της μαθαίνει πως δεν είναι ποτέ αργά να ερωτευτείς.
Ένα από τα πιο ξεχωριστά πράγματα που έχει καταφέρει η Jenny Downham να μας δώσει είναι η απεικόνιση του εσωτερικού και εξωτερικού κόσμου της Tessa.
No obstante, al final de cuentas la muerte es igual, sigue siendo el desenlace de todos nosotros, ya sea el tuyo, el mío, el de algún ser querido, o incluso el de alguna otra persona perdida en este mar de pobladores que habitan nuestro planeta.
La muerte es compleja sólo cuando queremos que lo sea, pero puede ser tan malditamente sencilla...Volviendo al tópico, este es un libro de cáncer.
Tessa tiene dieciséis años y se está muriendo.
Tessa tiene dieciséis años y sabe que se va a morir.Ahora lo que importa es lo que hará antes de ello.
Despite the fact that I spent a lot of the first few pages cringing (lets just say the first time she had sex wasn't exactly romantic.) But this is why I love the nitty grittiness that is this book.
They are both hurting in different ways, and I think that due to Zoey's family never being there, she's found a sort of stability, a happiness, around Tessa and her family than she ever has with hers.One specific thing that was immediately called to my attention when I started reading this was just how authentically British it was.
I cannot believe this was the author's debut book. WARNING- I cried from 2% all the way to 95%. I didn't cry at the very end. How screwed up am I? I cried not because Tessa was dying but because she was so well loved. The numerous acts of unselfish (and some selfish) raw love made my heart break apart.I promise you the dying in this book is not the story. It's about how to finally live when you have an expiration date.
Beautiful. I always said that there must be better books out there than The Fault in Our Stars by John Green when tackling teenage cancer in a novel. And there was. I have just read it. Tessa is a young teenager and she's being ravaged by Leukemia, she has battled it for years of her young life and now things are not going so well. The sand in the timer is falling faster. I've been ill for so long, puffed up and sick, with patchy skin, flaky fingernails, disappearing hair and a feeling of nausea
I loved the way this book was written, I felt so many emotions whilst reading it, something that The Fault in Our Stars had not done for me.
There are so many beautiful moments in the book as I journeyed with Tess as she worked to get through her list of things to do (some a little crazy!), things most teens would want to experience if they were going to die by sixteen.
I read it in less than two hours, just turning the pages and soaking it all in.I can't reveal special spoilers but this book takes a twist that I just loved, it melted my heart, I felt everything with Tessa.
Even though Tessa might achieve her goals, she will soon learn that maybe getting all the things she desire won't bring her happiness, and that maybe it is the unexpected joys of life that will.Before I Die is a tear-jerker.
Not to put down any other parts of the book, but the ending was infinitely painful and heart-breaking, I felt like someone I really knew in real life was passing away, not just a fictional character.There isn't much to be said (because it's that good) about Before I Die. Once starting the novel it's obvious what fate will befall Tessa.
While it started out rather slowly, about halfway through, it definitely picked up.I feel like it could have been so much more though. It could have been something absolutely phenomenal and some parts just fell a bit short. But I will say this, I definitely cried.
I read about half of Before I Die before I realized that I just couldn't be bothered anymore.
I had just finished reading Jenny Downham's You Against Me which was utterly brilliant but Before I Die simply didn't do it for me.
Suffering from leukemia, Tessa decides to make a list of things she wants to do before she dies.
Tessa's reactions to her cancer and her behavior seemed very realistic and Downham's portrayal of her relationship with her family was extremely well written and believable.
However, I simply could not bring myself to care for Tessa.
I for one, would probably want to spend all my time with loved ones, although I don’t think you can assume what a person would want in such a time unless it’s actually happening (God forbid).Tessa doesn’t play a weepy, whiny character who thinks the world should revolve around her since she’s about to die.
So you all know what will happen in the end.
It’s so sad to think of someone dying before they get to see how wonderful life could be, had they had the time to enjoy it.
When reading, and growing to know Tessa better and liking her, you realize that there’s nothing you can do for her.
I have just finnished this book and I write this review through tears.
In her last months she makes a list of 10 things she wants to do before she dies (this includes falling in love and saying yes to everything for one whole day).
Tessa goes through a range of emotions including anger (why her?) but the overriding feeling I got from her was an amazing spirit.
These are the things that make her feel alive and she embraces them in a way that most of us who think we have years left infront of us don't.
Narrated by a Tessa, a girl who is dying of cancer, Before I Die gives a realistic portrait of what she wants to accomplish in the little time left to her.Now please don't think I'm sexist when I say this, but 99% of the women I know make lists.
Lists—it's a girl thing.Tessa, makes lists.
Lists of things she wants to accomplish in the short time she has to live.
All I can say is don't get in the way of a girl with a list.There are books that help you think about life in a different way.
Before I Die was so freaking good!
Even though you know beforehand that the MC is going to die, you still wont be prepared for it.
The thing I loved most about this book, or I guess while reading it, was because it made me think of other books/movies/characters.
I don't really know how to explain it but I just like when authors or books do that.
AS long as I'm always remembering books I like/loved I'm good.I don't want to spoil to much other than the fact that Tessa, who is the MC dies, BUT then again you already know that before you read it.
Cuando escogí este libro antes de irme de viaje pensé que esto sería otra historia sentimental con una chica que esta muriendo que tiene una lista de cosas por hacer antes de morir y en eso se enamora y ve una hermosa puesta de sol justo antes de morirse.
Me sentí triste por él, realmente, porque Tessa iba a morir y ese era el final para ella, pero él se acordará de ella toda su vida.
Cosas que odio de este libro: Zoey, "amiga" de Tessa, mejor conocida como la tonta que la ayudó con su lista: Personalmente la odio por no estar para Tessa cuando la necesitaba y por recordarle cada vez que se veían que ella iba a morir y eso.
The list is things like sex, drugs, say yes to everything for a whole day, get famous, nonsense stuff.
I'm sorry, but if I was dying, I wouldn't be thinking about sex all the time.
Book should have more meaning to them, especially when it is about a girl who is dying.
I mean, if I wanted to read a book about sex, I would get one of those adult novels, not a bucketlist book.
I do like how her list changes to everyday things, but still I feel like it was a waste of a read, and I am forever stuck with the mental images of horrible those sex scenes.
I'd heard a little about this book when I started reading it.
Not much, but mostly good things.
But when I started it, I had no clue what I was in for.The title makes it clear that the book is about death.
Tessa makes a list of 10 things she wants to do before she dies.
Each one leads to different, varying consiquences, but they all help her live, just a little.This book is beautiful and gut wrenching.
There are moments when Tessa is selfish and unlikeable, but others when all you want to do is hold her and make her safe.
I felt that the book captured Tessa's emotions well - she's dying, yet she refuses to let that stop her doing what she wants to do.
I became really attached to Tessa, and it broke my heart when she died, but I loved the way in which it was written - it seemed to capture so many of Tessa's emotions.I chose to read this book because I like authors who deal with subjects that others are afraid to touch.
I have no problem with people doing lists of things they want to do, but it has to make some significance to their character.
Believe me, I wasn't expecting Tessa to be a likable or an inspiring character.
ALL the characters in this book didn't feel real.And about the love story, it happened out of nowhere!
Tessa was the driving force of the plot, so that would explain why I didn't like the plot.I wasn't asking for an inspiring story or a likable main character when I was reading Before I Die .
Like many people, I thought this book would be depressing.
Beckoned me across the room and begged me to pick it up and finish what I'd started.
If I hadn't needed to eat and sleep, I'd have finished it in mere hours.
Tessa Scott keeps going, too.
She keeps writing on the wall and adding to the list of things she wants to do before she dies.
Tessa pushes.
She pushes against the people who want to be near her.
She pushes against the rules she's been forced to follow throughout her brief life.
This book gives a promise.
This book keeps its promise.
It is just beautiful.
