https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20501.The_Camera
This book is relatively small, but there is so much information that it must be read carefully.Much of the book seems out of date, and it is, but even the things most people are very unlikely to ever use (view camera) have very interesting insights into the optics and different possibilities.
I had no idea of what was possible to do with a view camera because of the bellows, adjustments to the lens plane and film plane.
there are three).This books shows any person how easy we have it taking photographs.
Point and shoot it is, the camera takes care of the rest.
his photographs are ubiquitous and recognizable, universally praised by the neophyte art-lover as "great photography" and known more often by prints on a calendar than serious academic study.
i've read of adams that his love of the american west and its landscape powered his art, that his passion for photography began with his first trip to yosemite as a young man, and i wonder if he would ever have pursued expertise with a camera had he not first longed to document in artistic form the landscape that so captured his heart?
is this not the essence of true art- the ineluctable drive to express the heart's innermost longing, questioning, understanding?
I used to think Ansel Adams was not such a huge deal.. His work was everywhere and did not seem precious, or artistic as other photographers of his time. It is like when I used to think "Purple Rain" was the most over played song.. Then I saw Prince play it live.. While I didn't watch Ansel Adams shoot pictures, understanding his technique behind what he did and the lengths he went through to get it sure gave me a new appreciation for his work.
This is a good introduction to intermediate concepts which might be useful for an advanced beginner looking to improve their understanding of photographic concepts, or for someone getting started with a view camera.This book is a classic in photography, which necessarily means it's dated.
Adams wrote this book before digital photography was popular, so this book is really turned more towards chemical-based photography.
About 3/4 of the material is still relevant to digital photography, and the parts that aren't are obvious and easy to skip over.I bought this book after following Marc Levoy's 'Letures on Digital Photography', which drew from this book in early lectures.

VEry good and useful, even for digital photographers. You need the basics and this is solid advice.
In age of digital camera it's good to know the classic technique from one of my favorite photographer.
Wszędzie to samo - brak wyjaśnienia jakichkolwiek technicznych podstaw, albo wyjaśnianie na zasadzie "wyobraź sobie, że X to taki balonik na którym jeżdżą krasnoludki".
Jak działa migawka, jak parametry soczewki wpływają na obraz, jak przesłona faktycznie wpływa na światło docierające do filmu - to jest typ wiedzy jaką z The Camera się wynosi.
Konkretniejsze wskazówki, jak przykładowo zależność głębii ostrości od przesłony, wynikają właśnie z tych podstaw i oczywiście również są tutaj ujęte.Programistom powiedziałbym tak: The Camera (i zapewne reszta książek z serii) to fotograficzny odpowiednik "The C Programming Language" Kernighana i Ritchiego.
I cannot even recall the first time I looked at Ansel Adams' work or information on technique.
Did he do it best?
Did he demonstrate the process in the darkroom as much as the work in the camera?
And therein lies the best reason to read this.
It's an excellent example of how/why a person should strive to master the lens to reduce time printing (or photoshopping), because who wouldn't rather be out shooting?
But it also demonstrates equally how/why post-production work can make even a great photo even more excellent.
This is an amazing book which holds up very well despite its age. Much of Adams’ photography advice is timeless even though some of the gear mentioned is seldom used anymore. Adams writes in a very technical manner so this book can’t be skimmed thru quickly but it is well worth the time. Highly recommended.
Glorious. Specially the chapter seven dedicated to image management techniques.I have also learn to appreciate Ansel Adams’ portraits. He was not only a landscape photographer, but rather an all-terrain giant.There are some parts of the book that have not aged well, specially when referring to optimal shutter speeds, etc. technology has gone a long way. Understandable though.
Маст хэв для всех фотографов.
It's Adams. Enough said.
A little out dated but still has solid fundamentals. I liked the technical explanations of things such as depth of field.
It is a good book, I like
Ansel Adams is one of the greatest photographers of all time, and it is really cool to read and see his processes of taking some of his more famous photos.
He details very useful information on subjects that most starting photographers don't understand like, aperture and shutter speed.
The book shows all aspects of taking a picture and includes details on some of Ansel's most famous works.
It is super in depth and it is a must read for every photographer out there looking to take pictures like Ansel himself.
The Camera(Ansel Adams Photography, #1) is a book written to introduce many techniques and different uses for a photography camera.
While a lot of the technical information might seem outdated in today's digital camera world, some of it is still useful to know or keep in mind when taking images.
This great photographer is known from taking images of black-and-white landscapes of the American West, especially Yosemite National Park.
Ansel Adams inspires me to pursue my photography career and also helps me improve in the camera technology.
While reading The Camera, the book introduced new techniques to improve my picture qualities.
Ansel Adam's book, entitled, very simply, "The Camera," is about just that: the camera.
However, it is perhaps the most readable, most in-depth exploration of the camera in its many forms I have ever seen.
I have learned more over the course of about a week from this book than I did from months of formal classes.
So dry that, at times, I had to stop reading it.
I would look through the beautiful pictures in the book (many of them his own) and, refreshed, would be able to continue on.
Rather than reading through the book, I felt I was slogging through it at times.
This book is a classic.
On the face of it, you would question the relevance of the book in today's digital age.
However, when I started to read the book, I marvelled at the beauty of the concepts that he outlined, and the clarity with which he explained them.
They are as valid today as when he wrote them, and will be valid tomorrow.The principles of the camera, lenses, depth of field, hyper focal distance etc are valid today as they were yesterday, and his handling of the subject is masterlyFor one, like me, who would like to experiment again with the old cameras, this book its invaluableA masterpiece.
Adams talks almost as much about how great a photographer he is in this EXTREMELY informative book on the workings of the camera as he does on the subject matter.
I felt that reading this book was a lot like taking a class from most highly skilled professionals.
They know why they're teaching the class, and they have the ego to match.
Highly recommended for anyone who wants a serious look at what light does onces it enters a lens of a camera.
Something should be mentioned before you start reading this book which is that it has been published over 20 years ago, and a lot of new technologies have been developed and created since then and you shouldn't expect this book to be up with that.
I wouldn't recommend it to a professional photographer because it basically explains how the shutter works, what camera to choose, films, accessiories..
etc and I assumer a professional already know that.
I'd only recomment it for an Amateur Photographer who's willing to take photography seriously to the next level.This is a book of quality.
This is a very interesting book, but has very little practical application in with the advancement of the SLR camera switching to the digital format. While some of the information is still relevant, you can find the same information elsewhere in a more understandable manner. I did walk away with more knowledge of photography. But, the book left me wanting more practical applications, and only wet my appetite to learn more. I'm disappointed in what little I took away from such a photography genius. I wish he was still living to update this book.
I got this book three years ago and kept putting it aside. Why?! Despite being published in 1981 - that's even before I was born! - the book is still relevant and is a must for anyone claiming to take photography seriously.The book is the first in the series of three. Ansel patiently explains the mechanics of exposure, makes sense of shutters, apertures, etc. The tone of the book is rather dry and that's how I like it!I highly recommend this book to everyone including iPhone photographers :-)
I read this book years ago when it seemed the ultimate authority on the instruments used to catch light. It still is. Ansel was not a humble nor a quiet man, but he was an extraordinary influence in elevating photography to an Art. He speaks with confidence, as among the ultimate authorities on this subject. St Ansel also wrote about The Negative and The Print. They are also encyclopedic in their scope and accuracy.
Outstanding and timeless. This book was excellent in every way. I get so sick and tired of seeing his name invoked in 95% of the articles written today on landscape photography, but that can't be held against the man himself. He was a brilliant artist, and as this book demonstrates, an exceptionally intelligent student AND teacher of all aspects of the art and science of photography. Some people really do live up to the hype.
This book by Ansel Adams is a must read for any photographer. Many will think this book is irrelevant because it deals only with film cameras as digital media was not yet in use when it was written. That idea is patently false. Many of the theories and methods described by Adams are directly applicable to all methods of photography. It just so happens that I, along with a lot of other photographers, still shoot a lot of film each year. For us this book is invaluable.
Más allá del tiempo que ha pasado desde que se escribió y los avances tecnológicos entre las herramientas descritas y las actuales, lo realmente importante es que el fundamento fotográfico es el mismo. La óptica es la misma, la base es la misma, los tipos de lentes son los mismos, los accesorios son similares. Lo que importa realmente es que la técnica fotográfica es la misma. Este es un must que todo fotógrafo serio debería leer.
Although it may seem that much of the material covered in Ansel Adams' photography series are no longer relevant to the modern photographer, it is important to go back to basics to truly understand the art of photography properly. Adams explains complex terms clearly, and allows you to fully grasp difficult ideas. You will understand those technical concepts much better after reading this book.
El primero de la trilogía escrita por Ansel Adams sobre la técnica fotográfica. Los siguientes serán The Negative y The Print.Se trata de una lectura indispensable para todo aquel que quiera conocer la fotografía desde el punto de vista técnico pero adecuado al usuario.En palabras de Ansel Adams:“The single most important component of a camera is the twelve inches behind it.”
If you're interested in the technical side of cameras, you can do a lot better than this book. And if you're not, then this book has nothing for you. But, if you're interested in hearing 120 film referred to as 2 1/4" and discussions of cameras systems that are pretty much impossible to buy because they've been out of production for 60 years, this is the book for you.
