https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/50840.Farnham_s_Freehold
Bridge-playing libertarian type gets hit by nuclear weapon and ends up in future world where whites are enslaved by blacks.Well, you can see why I gave up playing bridge.
I read an overly simplified summary of this book that went something like this: libertarian veteran saves family in fallout shelter, gets moved forward in time 2,000 years, goes into survivalist mode and then runs into an advanced civilization where black people are the chosen race and who rule over a racially determined slave system.
Like Lazarus Long and Jubal Harshaw, in Hugh Farnham Heinlein has created a character who is an alter ego for himself and a vehicle by which he can espouse his libertarian and, in some respects, contrarian philosophies.This book was very influential, but Heinlein’s influence by H.G. Wells is also obvious as he borrowed heavily from The Time Machine.
About the first half of the book tracks their survivalist phase alone in this future world, replete with unbelievable caricatures of Farnham's alcoholic wife, weak-minded commie pinko liberal son, and a daughter who not only accepts that the continuation of the species depends on incest but also eagerly calls dibs on dad, which takes the ick factor to about 11.
Furthermore, Hugh Farnham is the most loathsome Heinlein protagonist I've encountered, which admittedly isn't saying much, since I don't like most of what I've read by him so have kept my intake down.
For instance, Karen's perfection was marred by her aping black slave speech that was common to older movies of the time & it's brought up later to great advantage.
Still, Joe & Duke were both far better & more complex than normal.I doubt younger folks will understand how well the whole bomb shelter & imminent nuclear war setup was done.
The way Hugh commanded things was high-handed & completely believable for the time & characters.
Very good for the times, not so hot 50 years later to a younger crowd that doesn't realize how much things have changed.
My Heinlein phase is continuing.If you are easily offended by your views (or societies givens) being challenged or called into question Heinlein is not an author for you.Heinlein is probably the best author that I have found in the Science Fiction category.
His futuristic worlds provide an excellent commentary of our current social life as well as remarkable insight into the human psyche.
His characters are multi-dimensional and some of his best characters are very strong women.
He writes women remarkably well in my opinion.
Most of the best novels that I have read are his later works.
I read it two days.
Worse, he-man Hugh has screwed up his parenting & family responsibilities so badly that his son likes being a mama's boy, (view spoiler)[ eunuch, slave, kept-man (hide spoiler)] better than a hot-blooded, man-of-freedom like his dad.Whites are so unprepared & pampered that after the big war, blacks control the world with high tech, but they aren't doing much better than anyone else ever had for all their technology.
(hide spoiler)] The table turned severely on the complacent Americans of the 1950s!It was a lot of fun reading about his bomb shelter & the plans he made for survival.
Bomb shelters were a big thing at one time & I believe Heinlein had one himself.
There aren’t many better recommendations for a book than ‘Sick as a dog but couldn’t put it down’. This is one of those.It works for survivalists, bridge players, parallel worldists, philosophers, post-catastrophists, cannibals looking for new recipes and anybody with Woody Allen’s tastes.It’s gotta be a fav of his. Those naked young things in the bunker with the middle-aged unattractive but pizazzy leader, one his daughter. Although his daughter confesses of the three breeding partners available, he’s the only one that does it for her, rest here:https://alittleteaalittlechat.wordpre...
It starts off so well until the big twist (Which I'm not really spoiling since it's the only real attraction of this book at this point--blacks are in control of whites).
Given that this book was published in the 60s, this would have been huge and inflammatory.
The book is so promising until this element occurs.
But when the "Chosen" people arrive, it all goes downhill.Now, I'm black myself, and I just couldn't take this book.
Not because I felt like it was racist (Or sexist, as many people say), but just because it's too out there for its own good.
Don't read this book.
The author is a GENIUS, every bit as good as Stranger in a Strange Land.I have plans on rereading this book in a few months after the mega trip of knowledge sinks in a little for a deeper insight-the man was years ahead of his timePlan on rereading this agin
This book has some notoriety among Heinlein's legions of critics for being a "reverse racism" story in which a group of white people (and their one black house-servant) are blasted thousands of years forward in time by a nuclear war, and find themselves in a future ruled by black overlords, served by an underclass of subservient whites.Farnham's Freehold is actually not that bad, nor is the narrative message as ham-fisted as I expected; Heinlein was a progressive for his time, and notwithstanding all those people who claim he was a libertarian, less plausibly, a "right-winger," or absurdly, a fascist, he was clearly trying to make a positive statement about freedom, self-determinaton, and racial coexistence.
Schwängern muss Hugh seine Tochter dann aber zum Glück doch nicht, da diese schon in anderen Umständen ist, genauso übrigens wie Barbara und die Katze.Mitsamt dem Bunker durch die Zeit katapultiert, müssen sich die Farnhams und ihre Begleiter neu einrichten und der Roman wird zur Bridge-Robinsonade (denn das Bridge-Spiel hat es Heinlein angetan, er schreibt mehr über das Spiel, als irgend ein Leser wissen will).Als schließlich ein gewisser Status Quo hergestellt ist und wieder gewohnt wird (Ikea würde fragen: Wohnst du noch oder lebst du schon), stellen sich Autor und Leser die Frage, wie es nun weitergehen soll, schließlich ist die Handlung noch nicht maßgeblich in Gang gekommen und der Roman schon über 200 Seiten alt.Heinlein hat an dieser Stelle offenbar die Nase genauso voll von der Story wie ich.
Part of this is that you it makes you feel better to know others enjoy reading a particular type of novel or genre as much as you do and that while most of your friends and family find your zealousness for said books frightening, there are others out there who understand.
But apart from Starship Troopers and The Puppet Masters, there's not been a lot of Heinlein I've come away really enjoying or thinking I'd actually want to re-read it again someday.Alas, Farnham's Freehold feel in the category of how I feel about the majority of Heinlein's work--vastly overrated.The front cover states this is "science-fiction's most controversial novel." Maybe in 1964, it was but the story is really showing signs of age.
Farnham's Freehold is #6 on my list of All Time Favorite Science Fiction Novels.
But I like the way Heinlein handled it.Do you like to play Bridge?@hg47(And yes, I am guilty of stealing from Heinlein's Farnham's Freehold and sticking background bits into one of my own novels.
Can I call it "tribute?")       ⥨           ⥨✹⥨               ⥨✹⨠✹⥨                ⥨✹⥨                     ⥨       UpdateJune 8, 20138:37 PMI seem to be temporarily fixated on FARNHAM'S FREEHOLD reviews.
She won me over completely when she wrote: "Almost every writer has taken a swing at the sneakiness of time and how it pads about on little kitten feet."
At one point, Hugh talks about an island he'd come across in the Pacific (during his time in the US Navy) where there were a bunch of plantations with black owners and white slaves, and that under those conditions the black/white stereotypes (e.g. who is servile, who seems educated) were reversed.
Well, one point Hugh and his group end up time-traveling about 2,000 years into the future where--thanks to the atomic war that started the book--most of the white folk in N.
Even having read this book before several times, it still blew my socks off.
Heinlein's deep look at racism, his typically brilliant characters and one of the cases where he didn't lose interest in his plot all dovetail in a great book.2016: Probably this is one of the books that stimulated the best conversations with kids when we read it.
They really latched on to the ideas of racism and slavery as seen in the book.
It was so brilliant of Heinlein not only to have blacks lording over whites in his alternate world, but to have them be kind, gentle and generous.
After reading this book it is rather obvious that it was written with one thing in mind. And that is to stir controversy. This book is not for the feint of heart but I rate it so highly because of Heinlein's talent for weaving an intricate story from just about anything. I will say that the plot certainly does get weak towards the end but I still give this my highest rating just from the joy of reading it and realizing just how controversial this book had to have been at the time of its original publishing.
There was an enticing rumor going round at one point that a Blue Club edition of this book existed, with the bridge sequences extended and some rather sexy new ones added. Unfortunately, it turned out to be a hoax. Pity.
Without a doubt, Heinlein has a great imagination. Unfortunately, his ability as a writer is hit and miss. "Farnham's" was a miss. Clunky and awkward. Not the sentence structure per se, but the story construction. Considering that this book was written in the 60s, I can understand how its material might have been considered "edgy" (cold war, fallout shelters, civil rights, racism) and that could carry the story. Not so, today. The characters were wooden and their reactions unbelievable. Sure, it's science fiction, but I need at least a little believability.
I did like Joe, though, even if he was a former servant promoted to royalty.The novel starts off with the threat of nuclear war and then moves on to cover time travel, adultery, dysfunctional families [although they were probably not recognized as such in that time], weird discussions about incest, surviving in a brave new world, being captured, blacks now the new ruling class and whites being slaves, a new definition of what it means to be 'black' and 'white' [as residents of India are considered 'black' whereas the Chinese and Japanese are considered 'white'].
At the same time, Heinlein is in no way idealogical, showing that everyone is human and everyone has human faults, making the story less about black/white, more about servant/master.
Interestingly, though, for me, with Heinlein's descriptions of the future world the leading characters find themselves in, I visualized his people more as being central or south American, instead of African.
It's not that Heinlein didn't think about these questions, as several of the above are asked by the book's leading character.
Nell'immensa produzione Heinleiniana non tutti i romanzi possono essere pietre miliari o veri e prop
At the same time, the tension surrounding segregation was also coming to a head.
As a result of a nuclear strike, Hugh's family is thrown into a world where everything they know is upside down and topsy-turvy.
The family consists of Hugh, his wife Grace, son Duke, daughter Karen, Duke's girlfriend Barbara, and Jim his negro caretaker.
Farnham is one of Heinlein's prototypical 'get-it-done', brilliant, well-read, enlightened, and prudent characters.
It's definitely worth reading in context of what was happening in the country at the time.
If the story were as good as the commentary woven throughout then it would be a 5 start must read on my list.
Heinlein wanted so much to not be racist, and this is the book that shows him trying so damned hard, and yet failing.
The plot, in which suburban white folk from 1960s America are transported to a future in which dark-skinned people have the upper hand, is a fairly obvious morality play.
Heinlein seems to obsess over showing off how he thinks white/black racism is kind of stupid.
Even for a novel from 1964, this book has aged badly.
That being said, I'm willing to give Heinlein points for at least *trying* to be woke.
This one's out of print. Post apocalyptic/speculative story in which whites are slaves due to nuclear fallout in Northern Hemisphere. It's one of those novels that Heinlein was criticized for... Is it racist? This was during the height of the Civil Rights movement. Hard to say. Read it yourself. You'll have to look it up on Amazon since it's been "unofficially" censored.
Robert A. Heinlein is not a Nazi. He is not a racist. He is also not a god. FARNHAM'S FREEHOLD is of, by and for the American white middle class of a half-century ago. It also challenges concepts of what is, can, and should be. Science fiction used to do that all the time. It needs to start doing it more, again.
The plot is most simple: A bunch of people in a vault gets catapulted into future by third world war bombs.The only unusual thing there is that black people have the rulership and white people are their servants.Now you could say “wow, that’s really progressive, considering that the book was published in 1965”.
That may be true – the protagonist thinks that there’s no difference between white and black men.
The female characters in this book are so hot for super-authoritarian alpha males that even the daughter of the protagonist dreams to have sex with her father.Even now you could say, ok, put these strange and outdated ideas apart, it still may be an interesting SF novel.
3 stars on the writing style, 4+ on the theme, which is unique, imaginative and enough of a metaphor regarding our own society as to be disturbing and thought provoking. In flipping the traditional racial roles, the author points out that people are people and that it is position that dictates the abuse of power, not race. The selective breeding of the lower classes and the assignment of roles is interesting. Could be a cautionary tale of what might happen in some event where our world is turned upside down.
Back in the day, I'm pretty sure I loved Robert Heinlein. This book however....Every character in it was obnoxious. Granted, it was written in a far different time - so maybe that's why I found it offensive. The survivalist details (post end-of-the-world-as-we-know-it) were the most interesting part of the book. Very disappointed.
In this fairly wacky tale Heinlein manages to combine nuclear war, a bomb shelter, racism, and time travel.
I found his views on racism to be quite sane and even advanced for 1964.The purpose behind My Big Fat Reading Project is to trace through the fiction of the years I have lived and notice the cultural shifts, both positive and negative, as they occurred.
Initially set in the time in which it was written, at the height of the Cold War, in typical Heinlein fashion, this book starts off with a bang as the main character, Hugh Farnham and his family were blasted 2000 years into the future by a Russian atomic bomb.
How the family adapted to this strange new world of the future constitutes the bulk of the novel.Staying alive was their first priority and Hugh packed the shelter with everything he thought they would need to live after a nuclear war.
