https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/47624.Lirael
Omg!! I had 6,000 audio books come through the library today 😫But I wanted to follow along in my book while Tim Curry reads to me 😊
If water fails thee, fire’s thy friend; if neither guards, it will be thy end.” Well this was freaking awesome!As a sequel where the main character from Book 1 isn’t the main focus - I was a bit worried; but there was no need because Lirael continued the story of the Old Kingdom and the dead fantastically!
And in the Remembering, you will see the hidden past that holds the secrets of the future,” Lirael is eventually sent on a mission by the Clayr and meets Sam while he is on the run.
His one good trait is loyalty and wanting to help his friend.
I felt like the book was way too long.I am glad that Sam got out of becoming the Abhorsen.
:/ Lirael = A+.The Disreputable Dog and Mogget = A+.Getting to see more of Sabriel and Touchstone = A+ (This takes place many years after book one after they are married and have two children - Sam is one of them.)Overall, I didn't hate it.
For such a long book, it made it seem a bit like filler.
[4.5 Stars]Way better than the first one!
It took me a while to get around to reading this book, even though I rushed out and bought it immediately after finishing Sabriel.
In fact, I'd recommend that before you read Lirael 1) you read Sabriel first and 2) you have a copy of Abhorsen ready to pick up as soon as you finish Lirael.
Lirael ends in the middle of something, and the two probably could have been combined into one very long novel.Still, I recommend the whole series.
I'll definitely seek out more of Garth Nix's books after I finish this series.

It does appear that Sabriel is written almost like a stand-alone, as this sequel takes place almost one and a half decade after the events in the first book with two new main characters; Lirael, a daughter of the Clayr and Prince Sameth, the son of Sabriel and Touchstone.
The appearance of the Disreputable Dog - a creature of magic - was a welcome change to Lirael's story.
We learn more of the Clayr, a race who appeared briefly in Sabriel, and the birth of the Charter, created out of Free Magic.
This for me told a pretty good story but could have done it better in maybe two thirds the length...just me possibly.Three stars, not bad, a fairly interesting story that tells us more of the world and it's people, hope the next strikes me better.************* Spoiler below line *************************(view spoiler)[I think the point at which I went totally from 4 stars to 3 here was when Lirale discovers that she is the Abhorsen in waiting her first reaction is "so I'll never get the sight?" Sort of ticked me off.
I would not piss on Lirael, Sameth, or the Disreputable Dog if they were on fire.I so much wanted to reach into that story and rip Mogget's collar off, and let him go totally batshit nuts on those three.I didn't even like Hedge.
I found myself yawning nearly as much as Mogget (maybe that's why I like him).And what's with that ending?
(hide spoiler)]Nothing was resolved, as of course I should expect from a middle book full of moronic characters.Well, I did kinda like Nicholas Sayre.
(hide spoiler)]Maybe the Moronic Protagonists and the Disreputable Dumbass can get him out of the carbonite before Jabba the Hedge eats him.And WTF, zombies?
4.5 starsI liked this even more than the first book! I really really love Lirael and the Disreputable Dog was a great addition. Some of my favorite scenes where between Dog and Moggot.He book definitely ends on something of a cliff hanger so I cannot wait to pick up Abhorsen!
Lirael was as appalling as Sabriel was awesome.
It sported an insecure and impulsive heroine drowning in her angst and her companions: an idiot of a selfish prince and a dog (a dog!).Lirael is a Daughter of the Clayr, compensating her lack of Sight (i.e. the ability to see future) with other capabilities like outstanding sociopathy and a penchant for magic.
Yes, Lirael is one of these special snowflakes we love reading about.
Lirael is the necessary prelude to Abhorsen, the third of the set.
If your love is for Sabriel and Touchstone only, leave Lirael alone.
There’s a reviewer who I follow (Ceridwen) who mentioned in her review of Sabriel how refreshing it is that the magic in the story is “something other than a deus ex machina” (aka: when the protagonist defeats evil without any true skill, the magic just kind of does its thing through them because they are super special snowflakes).
Pretty much everything I loved about the protagonist in Sabriel  is contradicted in the Mary-Sue that is Lirael, the main protagonist of book 2.Doormat/whiny/woe-is-me/doesn’t think she’s special even though all signs point to the annoyingly obvious fact that she is.
I'm not a huge fantasy person, but I'm always up for a kick-ass heroine such as Lirael. I thoroughly enjoyed the first 2 books in this trilogy, mostly because they appeal to my morbid streak. Death portrayed as a river with 7 gates? Sending the Dead back into Death using necromancer bells? What's not to like here?Decent writing, excellent story, not-quite-typical (and therefore appealing) fantasy story. Not to mention book covers by the Dillions. I will read almost anything that has a Dillions cover, story be damned.
The only thing that held this book back was the character of prince Sameth, the son of Sabriel and Touchstone. Apart from him, I fell in love with both Lirael and the Disreputable Dog and cannot wait to get my hands on the last book! I also personally think this book was better than the first. I have high expectations now for the last one!!
Why did Sameth have to be just as annoying as Lirael was amazing?
If Sameth hadn't bugged me so much, I would have given this book a 4.5 or even a 5 star rating, but as it stands now I can only really give it a 4.
That being said, I do want to emphasize that Lirael and the Disreputable Dog are AMAZING, and their portions in the book, everything about the Clayr and the Library, and just gah all the portions with Lirael were 5 stars for sure.
Audio # 332018 Reading Challenge: deals with a library or bookstoreLirael is so depressed and has such low self esteem.Note-Tim curry can feel free to narrate every book I own please
I went back and forth between liking the characters and not, which I think reveals how fully formed they are.I really liked the whole Charter marks and Free Magic stuff.
I felt she was a very bland rather petulant character, but then she was obviously surrounded by a great deal of power so I was kind of fascinated.
In some ways - and this doesn't happen often - I was ok with the moments when I didn't like the characters because a) they were still surrounded by a great deal of power and b) it made them more human.
I'm truly surprised that this book can be considered YA cause it's a extremely dark tale that's leads up to a jaw dropping revelation(not really you can guess it almost immediately, I just wanted to entice you into reading it).I listened to the audio version and Tim Curry makes everything so much better, he totally knows how to perfectly creep you out when he wants to.
He is an absolutely perfect choice for the audio narration; word of advice listen to him read with all the lights off while your in bed alone and I guarantee you will get the wiggens.ProsCharacters, prose, audio narration, character development, Death, the library of the Clayr, paceConsPace can be a little iffy sometimes
Nice to see the stories and characters are getting more complexed - I am looking foward to the next instalment in the stories.
Two books through this trilogy (because I'm very unsure about reading past that, since Nix has started doing prequels and such) and I'm STILL uncertain how I feel about it.
I reread my Sabriel review and basically find myself feeling the same way, if rather reluctantly.
As I mentioned in my last update, these books are sometimes difficult to focus on, but by the end I want to go back and reread them to piece everything together.
Looking forward to reading Abhorsen though.Also, Tim Curry's narration is very good.
It’s in a tall mountain at the very tip-top of her country, and she lives there with thousands of cousins, who are collectively called ‘The Clayr,’ most of whom are female and have the pale blonde hair and tanned skin that marks them as one of their own.
Both Lirael and Sam have good character arcs, their inner lives and conflicts are way more realized than Sabriel’s were in book one.
While Sameth has serious problems to deal with, he’s also selfish, doesn’t think things through properly, and would do a lot better if he’d open his mouth and let words come out.
Sabriel and Touchstone might have a firm idea of their duty is, but I’m pretty sure that they would also understand that Sameth’s sickened fear would actually make a very bad Abhorsen.Communication, communication, communication.
I think I liked Abhorsen better, so I’m hopeful about that and Clariel, but it was disappointing how much of a struggle this was to reread.Originally posted here.
I wasn’t very interested in this book. “Sabriel” was an enjoyable read having me guessing what will happen next, however, with this book I don’t feel the same connection. I don’t really have much to say about this. I’ll read this book again in the future but for now... eh. DNF - page 92
Toto bol môj 28 rereading... (to len tak odhadom :) ) ale páčilo sa mi to aj najviac zatiaľ. viac napíšem, keď si utriedim myšlienky.
I'M SO !!!!!I stayed up until midnight to finish this and I don't regret that really, but I need to be awake at 5am for uni, so... I'll write a review out tomorrow lmaoREALLY enjoyed this though 🙏
This sequel to Sabriel is stronger on character development but weaker on action; I don't think Nix has quite figured out how to balance the two aspects of the story.
In Sabriel, the heroine (and we as the readers) were plunged almost immediately into the dangerous journey across the Wall.
But although she has some adventures there, and the secondary character Sameth has some adventures of his own, their meeting and the major plot don't really get underway until near the end of the book, leaving the majority of the story for the next volume.
Band 2 spielt einige Jahre nach den Ereignissen aus Sabriel, ist aber eng mit den dortigen Ereignissen verwoben.Erneut konnte mich Garth Nix mit seinem Stil, der weniger an Fantasy als an einen Roman erinnert, fesseln und ich fand die Charaktere, die wir in diesem Band begleiteten, noch besser aufgebaut als im ersten Teil. Ich hatte definitiv kaum noch Erinnerungen an diesen Band und freue mich auf die Auflösungen, die im nächsten kommen werden. Danach kann ich dann endlich die neueren Bücher und Novellen und Kurzgeschichten zu lesen beginnen.
I'm really enjoying this series. Check it out if you get the chance!
Lirael managed to use her past to fuel her future, and didn't have the self pity that usually accompanies main characters.
She was always asking to read magic books or explore ancient tunnels in search of forgotten tomes.
I really related to the curious side of her, cause if it were me, I'd be doing the exact same thing.I loved Lirael's furry companion, the Disreputable Dog almost as much as I loved her.
Unlike Mogget from Sabriel, the Disreputable Dog actually wanted to be with Lirael.
This usually doesn't bother me, but I absolutely hated Sameth, the other character followed through the book.
