https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16056408-easy
The writing was AMAZING, and the story flowed like a catchy song.There was a cute and wonderful twist that had me smiling like a fool.
I was pleased to see that this issue was not glossed over and was handled with a delicate but effective grace that kept the story from taking a turn towards the dark side...Above all things fun and enjoyable in this sexy read was an important message of personal strength, forgiveness, and hope.
Book Stats:
Very sexy buildup; fade-to-black finish.▪ Romance: Slow-building and fun.▪ Characters: Lovably damaged.
Sexy, emotional story.
Fun twist.
I'm the author of this YA-M/New Adult novel. :)
Okay, let's get right down to business: Easy is one of the best books I've ever read.
I finished it almost two weeks ago and I still think about the characters because I was on such an emotional roller coaster, fully immersed, while reading.
Easy surprised me right from the start with a very troubling scene of Jacqueline being attacked, making my heart jump into my stomach.
But I will give a warning to some: There are a few disturbing scenes and if this is a trigger for you, it may be best to skip.It's been a while since I've added a book to my all-time-favorites shelf.
This book was so powerful, so amazing, so emotional.
At one point she admits that the reason she didn't report him in the first place was that she thought that Lucas beating Buck up would prevent him from assaulting anyone again, a ludicrous assumption made even more ludicrous when he continues to threaten her and tries to rape her a second time.
Following the fold of YA novels, he has never had a serious relationship before, though he's hooked up with quite a few women, and he becomes obsessed with Jacqueline before even having a single conversation with her.
Her chief purpose in the novel is to be Jacqueline's friend and encourage her relationship with Lucas.
Amazing <3I'm sorry everyone, but this review will be full of gushing and little hearts and me being all crazy about a book I absolutely lovedSo, there are like a million reviews for this one, and I don't really feel like writing an extensive one, because honestly, YOU SHOULDN'T KNOW ANYTHING ABOUT THIS BOOK BEFORE YOU START IT!!!!That's how it was for me, I went into this totally blind, I had absolutely no idea what the book was about, I think I read the blurb but it still gave me nothing.
The classes they take togetherShe sees him in class all the time and there are stolen glances everywhere and he keeps sketching things.Yes I know the stolen glances are so high-school, but they were sweet and they made me smile until my cheeks hurt like crazy :D3.
EDIT 21/05/2013:-  I am putting up this teeny little paragraph up here since lately I've been getting a few semi-irate to mildly disapproving comments expressing opposition to my thoughts regarding this book. If you have been a victim of acquaintance rape or been sexually harassed/assaulted by someone you were familiar with and this book helped you heal in any way whatsoever or you could relate to Jackie's actions, then those are your personal feelings. And it is perfectly okay to have your own
If you have been a victim of acquaintance rape or been sexually harassed/assaulted by someone you were familiar with and this book helped you heal in any way whatsoever or you could relate to Jackie's actions, then those are your personal feelings.
ii)Said female has second encounter with the piece of shit where he again tries to rape her, but she still does not have brains enough to get off her ass, walk to the police station and report the matter.
Because apparently in this author's world either there's no law enforcement agency or the heroine isn't intelligent enough to figure out the use of one.Instead she enrolls herself in self-defense classes.
Huge 5 starsI really loved this story but not for the reasons I expected.
What I expected was an angst filled, all consuming, volatile romance between the hero and heroine.
Overall this book is more about the heroine's journey to self-awareness than about her romance with the hero.
Typically, I prefer romance centered plots to storylines involving the heroine's relationships with multiple characters.
However, this book not only delves into the heroine's personal growth and her relationship with other characters, but also has one fantastic love story with a hot yet tortured tattooed hero, who is also extremely endearing.
So somebody told me this book was like Beautiful Disaster but not completely horrible, woman hating and nonsensical. I snorted, thanked them for the rec and went on my merry way.So let me express this in the most calm and reasonable way I can. Easy by Tamara Webber is fantastic and wonderful and that person was 100% right.I have to admit, the book and I didn’t get off to a great start. It begins with Jacqueline at college, bummed from getting dumped by her longterm boyfriend, almost getting rape
In fact, by the end of the novel I was cheer­ing and punch­ing the air because this book was the best I’ve ever read an author han­dle the sub­ject for con­tem­po­rary readers.Nor­mally, in books where the female MC is almost raped and saved by the hero, the rapist gets beaten up and left behind and the hero­ine goes on her merry way.
There was a point near the end of the novel where Jacque­line has to talk to a bunch of soror­ity girls about rape and I wanted to cry and cheer and do a lit­tle girl power dance.So I loved Jacque­line, I loved Lucas, I loved most of this book.
*4.5*This book has made me really want to take a self defence class. Dear lord.
Better writing, more likable H/h, smarter story line, a hero who uses his fighting skills for good, and a far more fitting ending, IMHO.LucasEasy was such an emotionally deep story, realistic in nature, and had a wonderful steamy romance between a tortured hero who is obsessed/possessive over Jacqueline, and a heroine who must now come to terms with the choices she made.Lucas was AWESOME.
A hot tortured guy who was obsessed and possessive of Jacqueline, but in a way that never crosses the line.
.. So easy to like, so easy to get lost into the story, so easy to get to the last page and wish for more...
Sometimes you don't really  think  if a book is good or not, it just works for you.
You simply start reading it and the action feels so natural that you don't stop until you reach the last page.
This is one of those stories.It's hard to think of the reasons  why i liked it  so much, and I'm not even sure if it matters because usually what i like about a book is not what others
This is one of those stories.It's hard to think of the reasons  why i liked it  so much, and I'm not even sure if it matters because usually what i like about a book is not what others might like - some books just work while others don't and I am always happy when i get to enjoy what I read.This being said, I am not sure if these are my reasons to love it, but I am pretty sure that you will enjoy them all:Jacqueline is my kind of character.I liked her voice (smart and funny), her strong personality - after what almost happend to her in the beginning of the book she still could pretend that her life was (almost) the way it used to; she still managed to keep her head up and confront whatever it was to confront.
I loved Tammara's Between the Lines series. I've read all three books in the series more than once. So, when I found out she was writing a book with college aged characters, I was thrilled. Easy did not let me down. From the moment I began reading it I couldn't walk away from it. I cried, I laughed, I yelled and I cheered. It's an emotional journey that I wasn't expecting. I suggest you READ IT. This is one that will keep you up reading all night long.
I am so stinking in love with this book!
No, I definitely am.) It also touched on a very serious subject in a realistic way that drew you into the minds and hearts of the characters.
I could see myself reacting in the same way, having the exact same thoughts.
I hope anyone who has gone through that same situation reads this book and takes her words to heart.Incredible story from an incredible author, and even though I just finished it, and my to-read list is a mile long, I’m going to read it again.
So Jacqueline goes to the teacher and throws herself on his mercy, begging for a chance to catch up and pass the class.
In class, Jacqueline notices another boy, Lucas.
I liked that Jacqueline doesn't let the events in her life drag her down.
There is so much more to this story than the romance but I don't want to give anything away.
This story is best discovered by reading it yourself.
I highly recommend this story, just writing this review makes me want to read it all over again!
I'm definitely reading anything else written by Tammara Webber.
Love is not the absence of logic but logic examined and recalculated - heated and curved to fit inside the contours of the heart  This might be my favorite book of Webber's to date. There's something about the stories she writes which makes me throw out my preset ideas of what I wouldn't like in a book. She rearranges my reservations and makes me want to know more about her flawed characters.  "When I registered for econ, I had no idea that I'd be in for this level of reality-show drama. It's
But I'm not going to hide my admiration for a love story that did just so happen to make me feel a little bit warm and fuzzy inside.
I want to see serious issues being taken seriously, so this was something I appreciated.Here's what I didn't like :Secrets took too long to be revealed.Lucas probably could have taken a more proactive role in getting Jackie into self defense classes or even talking to someone about what had happened.Should you read this book?If you'd like to read about a sweet and intense love story that just might make you feel a little giddy inside, I'd say definitely check this one out.
Okay, this was such a great book. Sweet but not cheesy or immature... mature but not too adult... the perfect cross-over book. I'll definitely be looking for more by this very talented author!I might write more of a review if I can think of some way to do this story justice. For now, this must suffice.
Wow, what a huge surprise this was! Unexpected layers, a heroine who develops over the course of the book, and a seriously, seriously crush-worthy guy.
Just beware, there is delicate subject matter addressed in this book, and the picture painted isn’t always pretty, this is more than just a light YA romance.
Initially I didn’t think that the length of the book would allow the story to develop properly, but it did and the epilogue finished it off nicely.
This is the fourth book that I’ve read from Tammara Webber and I look forward to seeing what this gifted author has in store for us.
“Choosing to be with you isn’t a difficult decision, Jacqueline,” he breathed, pulling back one final time to stare into my eyes.
And Lucas....*swoons*This is about a college girl named Jacqueline (internally cheers because OMG ITS MY NAME IN A BOOK) who just had her boyfriend of three years break up with her and decides to go to a Halloween party with her friends.
It's clear that Lucas is also trying to overcome a heart breaking past and I loved seeing them be there for one another and come together...
I loved how he was so protective over Jacqueline and yes there was some back and forth but then you get to end and all of it just clicks and then your heart breaks all over again.
I did however, love Lucas and Jacqueline - the parts of the book where they were actually interacting were by far the highlights of the story for me.The hero and heroine just did not make what I'd call smart relationship decisions.
I didn't like how she played games with Lucas in the beginning, or would ignore him for days on end (SO frustrating!).
"I have to go now, or I'm not going." Honestly though, if it wasn't for how much I liked the parts where Lucas and Jacqueline were actually together, I might have put the book down.
4.5 sweet stars.First off, I am not sure how I missed this gem of a book when it was first released nearly 2 years ago. A lot of my friends have already read it and I saw all the four and five star reviews. I think it came to my attention as the 2nd book was released yesterday….  He watched her, but never knew her. Until thanks to a chance encounter, he became her savior…The attraction between them was undeniable. Yet the past he’d worked so hard to overcome, and the future she’d put so much fai
“The night we met-I'm not like that guy." His jaw was rigid."I know tha-" He placed a finger over my lips, his expression softening."So I don't want you to feel pressured.
Don’t want to read about the antics of kids the same age as my son.
But now and again I do like to read about a nice guy.
Please feel free to enlighten me but any of the books I have read with such in them have the members acting that they are better than the non-frat members.
Nooooo!I don't wanna read a romance with THIS dude as the love interest!I'm mentioning this, because if you're weird like me, then I want to put your mind at ease.
Lucas' secret isn't that he's sneaking into her laundry basket to sniff her panties, or hiring guys to attack her so he can play hero.
Webber is, undoubtedly, a talented and skilled author; and from front to back, this book packs an emotional punch.
“Now don't laugh 'cause I just might be the soft curve in your hardline.”  Easy is a story of understanding,trusting and healing.Not your typical contemporary romance,it's not only about finding love but also about finding yourself,embracing your scars,showing humanity and playing with the cards life dealt you in the best way you can.  “As for being somewhere you're not supposed to be-Maybe you're here for a reason,or there is no reason.”  The truth is,most of the times the belief that there i

Dealing with subject matter that is raw and stark, Tammara Webber effortlessly balances gritty reality with touching sensitivity.
The dialogue is perfect (it makes me go all fangirl) and every moment between Lucas and Jacqueline is so authentic I defy anyone not to feel some kind of attachment to these two characters.
Although the romance is fantastic, I think what makes 'Easy' so special is Webber's ability to highlight an important message by weaving it through both characters’ story - a necessity considering the subject but done with beautiful subtlety.
*5 PERFECT STARS*So, I started reading this around 10PM... In the meantime it's 4AM in the morning and I just finished this book in one sitting, even though I'm sick and should get as much rest as possible... This book was truly impossible to put down!  “Love is not the absence of logicbut logic examined and recalculatedheated and curved to fitinside the contours of the heart” This easily became one of my favorite romance novels ever! Though the story wasn't anything particularly original or gro
I was growing a little tired of dystopian/young adult books these days so I decided to read some romance/new adult again and boy, this was the perfect book to start with!
Since reading this, I'm more obsessed with romance than ever!This story is about Jacqueline who just broke up with her longtime boyfriend Kennedy, whom she gave up everything for.
A few weeks later, at a party, one of Kennedy's friends tries to rape her, but a boy she's never seen before, Lucas, was there just in time to save her.
Benji and Kennedy were also awesome side characters, just like Chaz.
I was beyond intrigued with her writing style in Between the Lines and even though I was a little indifferent (the story just wasn't for me, but her writing was absolutely phenom--wait for it...enal) I wanted more, I craved more and reading between the lines of her first few books (kick ass pun, I know) I new greatness was on the way; I needed more.
You spend a great amount of time (sweet agonizing time) waiting for Lucas and Jacqueline to um..."connect".
Greatness knocked and Tammara Webber answered and the answer was Easy.
And that's exactly what I want from Tammara Webber, MORE!
OMG THIS BOOK.THIS BOOK.WOW.I loved this so much! I sobbed, I laughed out loud, I swooned. This book was everything. A word of warning, this book has depictions of sexual assault and stalking (hence, the sobbing). Tammara Webber did an amazing job with this and I highly recommend it if you want to try the new adult genre!
Just when i didn't think he could get any hotter..." Erin in Easy3 WORDS- "Future Professional Standing"...1 Phrase- "As a heart attack"...And a horny boyfriend change Jacqueline's life as she knows itJacqueline has just started her sophomore year in college when she finds her self being dumped by Kennedy her boyfriend of three years.
After coming out of her breakup coma Jacqueline finds herself failingher Economics class.
Especially when Lucas(cutie) tells Jaqueline he would like to sketch her.
As things move forward with both Landon and Lucas, Jaqueline finds out the two suitors share more than a few things in common including their feelings for her.
Even for some moments of construction for what it provided, it wasn't enough, and sometimes even contradictory or inaccurate.I'll leave you with a song that came to mind when thinking about tattooed tormented heroes (which this book tried to show, but it didn't necessarily show Lucas's story all that well, nor with respect to the heroine's actions), people who lose their way or experience great deals of strife.
