https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6581586-the-rustlers-of-west-fork
There's a reason Louis L'Amour disavowed writing this novel. It's obviously a beginner's effort. It is a Hopalong Cassidy novel his family republished after his death. It captures the stereotypical mystique of the old west. I still maintain I was born in the right century.
This novel is one of four Hopalong Cassidy novels he wrote but they were originally published under the pseudonym “Tex Burns”, a nom de plume created by his publisher (L’Amour himself always denied he had written these books).Regardless, you don’t need to be a L’Amour enthusiast to appreciate this story.
I suspect that it was originally published in serial form.While reading the novel it struck me that “Westerns” are really the precursor of today’s superhero stories.
The L’Amour Hopalong Cassidy books are nice stories and don’t demand too much of your cerebral juices to make it through one.
For years, L'Amour denied that he ever wrote these books, but even when it became an open secret (thanks to the copyright on one of them becoming public) he continued to distance himself from the work.The Hopalong Cassidy we find here is tailored after the original character created by Clarence E.
When L'Amour was hired to write the books the American public was much more familiar with the portrayal of William Boyd in dozens of films and an up-coming television series.
Although often called the second book in the series, The Rustlers of the West Fork is actually #1.The story opens with Cassidy taking money to friend Dick Jordan, of the Circle J, that pays of a lone owed by another friend, Buck Peters.
But Dick and his daughter Pam are being held prisoner by rustler and badman Avery Sparr, in order to get control of the Circle J.
A good fun story by one of the best ever Western Writers, about one of the most famous cowboys in written, movie and TV history.
I enjoyed this a lot more than I thought I would.
Louis L'Amour does some great descriptions, and although the cowboy stereotype gets on my nerves slightly, it wasn't enough to make me dislike the characters.
In fact, I was pretty intrigued by some of them, such as Mesquite Jenkins and Johnny Nelson.
I'm almost curious enough to go hunt up some of the original Hopalong Cassidy books, just to see what they're like.
And Louis L'Amour may hit my list of authors I want to read more by in the future.
In all, not a bad venture in genres that I never read.
Beau L'Amour writes a lengthy after words explaining how his father denied having written any of the Hopalong Cassidy novels. Beau is emphatic that his father did this out of some stubborn desire to hold on to an old lie. But really I think he denied writing the Hopalong books, because they're silly. The characters don't talk the way his characters normally do, and they react with violence when he might normally have them scare the antagonists into submission. The books just don't fit into his canon.
I liked this book, but I didn't really enjoy it. I really like the character Mesquite Jenkins, he reminded me of a Clint Eastwood character. I got some of the Outlaw characters mixed up throughout the story so it was confusing at times. But I liked the story and I recommend it to any western genre fans.
This book has made me interested in finding an old show to watch. Louis L'Amour was asked to continue the series and this classic cowboy is the result.
When the money is all collected, Cassidy goes west to deliver it to Jordan.
Cassidy headed west to find the Jordans and bring justice to Soper and Sparr.
When he finally gets to the ranch, Sparr pretends to be nice, but when Cassidy talks to Jordan, he finds out the truth.
A few days later, Cassidy storms the ranch when all the hands are gone and he takes the Jordans up on a trail on a high mountain pass.
On the back of the book even, it says "In this first of four classic fronteir novels, Louis L'Amour adds his own special brand to the life and adventures of one of America's favorite fictional cowboys, Hopalong Cassidy." Also, despite what his son, Beau L'Amour thinks, I actually found this story to be a great read.Even though Louis L'Amour denied ever writing these books (they were written under the pen name "Tex Burns"), and even though these books were the very first published novels of his career, I thought this first book in the series was absolutely great.
Mulford tradition whose series of novels L'Amour had been picked to continue.The Hopalong Cassidy Novels #1 - The quick-thinking, fast-shooting cowpuncher heads west to deliver a fortune in bank notes to his old friend, Dick Jordan.
Even if Hopalong Cassidy can free Jordan and Pam, he will have to lead them across rough and untamed Apache country, stalked by the outlaws who have vowed to gun him down.
But Hopalong is no stranger to trouble, and before his guns or his temper cool, he's determines to round up Sparr and his gang and bring the outlaws to justice ...
I can't say if it's the genre I like, the particular author, or just the action, clear-cut story line and theme.
One of the best parts of this book was the afterward by Louis Lamour's son, where he says that Louis Lamour himself denied having written the four Hopalong Cassidy novels that he did.
The story behind his four Cassidy novels is a great story in itself.As for the book, there is a clear distinction between the good guys and the bad guys, very good character development, and lots and lots of action.
**** "The Rustlers of West Fork" is the first Hopalong Cassidy by Louis L'Amour.
I like how he makes the best of the formula western, fast action, bringing history to life, place and time.
Everything feels real, despite publisher limitations.
Heroes are tough, honorable, fast, loyal to friends who follow and help, fair to enemies, and leave the ladies with a smile.
Here, Cassidy finds an old pal, crippled and confined with his now grown daughter.
With gun, fist, experience, and imagination, our cowboy fights evil, blatent and sly, tricks double crossers, and cold mountain passes to triumph.
He embodies old-fashioned values I envy and aspire to.
I really enjoyed listening to this audio book.
The fact that Louis L'Amour did not want to claim this piece of work since he wrote it under the name of Tex Burns is an amazing back story.
Anyway, I really liked this western with Hopalong Cassidy.
This version of Hopalong is my favorite and L'Amour made him very realistic.
I would recommend this book to anyone who enjoys Westerns, remembers Hopalong Cassidy or is a Louis L'Amour fan, you will not be disappointed.
L'Amour is able to draw the reader/listener into the story with his detailed descriptions which makes this story so entertaining and enjoyable.
This (per Beau L'amour) is the first of four books commissioned by Hollywood officials (insert sarcastic look here) to continue the adventures of Hopalong Cassidy. His father kept to the Clarence Mulford style. Sadly, William Boyd wanted the character in the books portrayed as he portrayed the character on the silver screen, a sanitized version that did not smoke or drink, which was not how Mulford had originally created the character.
I enjoyed this Louis L'Amour western featuring Hopalong Cassidy. It is a simple story of good and evil in the wild, wild West of yesteryear. My Dad loved reading L'Amour books and I 'spose that I'm becoming my Dad in that sense. There are four books in the Hopalong Cassidy series written by L'Amour and I recommend the entire series to anyone who enjoys a good fictional story about our nation's western heritage.
This is a good early L'Amour effort even though he refused to say he wrote it. He wanted to be faithful to the classic Mulford Hopalong Cassidy character. Publishers wanted a sanitized version of the character to cash in on the popular TV series at the time. Although I prefer the Mulford character, this novel captures what was to become the L'Amour trademarks of detailed research and excellent description. Well worth the read.
I think this is the first time I ever gave one star to a L'Amour book. I see why he did not want to admit writing The Cassidy books. It seemed to me that he wrote this in one sitting, putting very little effort into it. Very weak characters and poor plot. Very very unusual for this author but we all have bad days.
Nice to read another simple, black hat-white hat adventure story, with none of that complicated introspection. I like layered characters and richness and growth as much as the next, but who has time for that when your hero is on the run trying to save a few lives and mete out frontier justice? That Avery Sparr, he needs killin....Great vacation book.
This is one of the Hopalong Cassidy books that L'Amour wrote and then spent years denying that he'd written. He apparently didn't want his name associated with them because the publishers altered L'Amour's characterization of Hopalong. It wasn't the writing because these are solidly told stories and quite good. They were only published by the family after L'Amour's death.
My dad loved Louis L'Amour, and we were headed to Utah, so I decided to read about Hopalong Cassidy and cattle rustlers. It was sort of fun, though people seemed to die awfully often, and I got a little tired of the main character's "ice" blue eyes. Still, it was fun reading the book in the imdst of rocky hills and prickley pear cacti.
I've never been much into western novels. I usually prefer science fiction or fantasy when it comes to fiction. However, I was surprised to find that I really enjoyed this book. It was fast paced, easy to read prose, and fun. Parts of the book were completely unbelievable but then since when is an action book supposed to be believable?
This is second of four Hopalong Cassidy novels that Louis L'Amour wrote as Tex Burns. He never did admit to writing them, but after he died his son republished them under his name. He had to write them, not as he wanted to, but to be faithful to the movies and TV series. He did not like them. This was the best one of the ones I've read so far. 4 Stars.
An easy read/listen. In my mind, Louis L'Amour can do no wrong. Growing up in the late 20th century, I have always been a huge L'Amour fan. I have only read a few Clarence E. Mulford novels. Therefore, the comparison between Mulford's Hoppy and L'Amour's, didn't really have an effect on my opinion of the novel.I also appreciate a western series. Looking forward to the next 3 books.
In keeping with my desire to read all of Louis L'Amour books in the sequence of his writings, I have read the second book (first of the Hopalong Cassidy books) and am still in love with the descriptions and actions of His westerns. This is a great book to read after having grown up with the series and movies of the fifties.
I don't want to give any Louis L'Amour book 3 stars, but I struggled with this. I'm not even sure what it is that made it difficult to read, but it might have been the big cast of characters. I guess I'm more in love with some of his other books. I wish that I had read the Afterward by his son, Beau first. It spread some light on how this came to be, and might've made it more enjoyable.
An easy reading and very enjoyable. It is one of the books that he wrote under another name for a publishing company who wanted to write Hop Along Cassidy after another author wrote about bim and it was also a tv series before he wrote his 4.
This is a more light hearted western than some of the others L'Amour wrote. Hopalong Cassidy tries to help an old friend and his daughter when rustlers almost succeed in taking over their ranch entirely. Can Hopalong help, or will he and his friends perish?
Apparently, Louis denied writing this series his whole life. His son let the cat out of the bag after he died...except apparently, it was pretty well-known he had. Interesting story behind the book.
My first ever Louis L'Amour! Not my favorite genre but it reminded me of my dad and father in law so I liked it more than I normally would.
