https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/258392.Gormenghast
I like Titus Groan very much, but I like Gormenghast more.
At first I thought this was principally due to Peake's maturing style--and I still believe that this is an important factor--but I have also come to understand that the growing ease in style, the flow of the narrative, has changed because Gormenghast, and Titus too, have changed.
This place and this prince, both circumscribed and determined by tradition, now live in an unstable world undermined by crime and flood.
The earl has entered into the full freedom of young manhood, conscious of the confines of tradition but no longer bound by its restrictions.I look forward with delight to the last volume of the series.
In fact, the short story, Boy in Darkness (which I reviewed HERE), is an account of one such episode, though it is more allegorical than the other Gormenghast stories.Meanwhile, there is a growing sense of evil in the background, with more deaths (some of them grisly) and ultimately destruction on a Biblical scale.Overall, this story is very similar to the volume that precedes it, in setting, structure, tone and the extraordinary vividness of the descriptions (“porous shadow-land...
The Gormenghast books are considered to be the beginning of the 'mannerpunk' genre, and along with Tolkien, Moorecock, and Howard, Peake is one of the fathers of the modern Fantasy genre.
Mannerpunk is a genre typified by complex psychology, plots driven by character interaction, and a strong sense of mood.
In this sense, mannerpunk, and certainly the Gormenghast books, work in the vein of surrealism (meaning not 'unreal', but 'more than the real'); not unlike the Russian Gogol.
The genre is based upon the works of authors like Jane Austen, the Brontes, Baroness Orczy, Swift, de Cervantes, and Dumas pere.Peake himself was a polymath, excelling not only as an author, but a poet and artist.
This classic fantasy still feels almost like allegory and real history wrapped around some of the most beautiful prose in literature.
It's as complicated and real life, as full and ripe as all the greatest stories ever told, and it ends with great and satisfying heroism that is turned sour mainly because it only entrenches Titus in the very things he'd spent all his life trying to escape.I feel for him.
I really do.There's so much tragedy in Gormenghast, and yet the whole land and the castle feels like a character unto itself, gloriously drawn and full of personality.Anyone could read this without knowing anything about fantasy at all.
La delicatezza con cui viene presentato il personaggio di Tito (che fino ad ora non conoscevamo, visto che al termine del primo libro il fanciullo aveva un anno appena), sempre in abbinamento con vedute aeree del castello e del monte, con tutti gli strapiombi mozzafiato e le terrazze abbandonate, certe fasi della presentazione hanno un'aura a dir poco poetica, e splendidamente malinconici sono certi brevissimi accenni ai fasti ormai trascorsi del mostruoso maniero.
Ecco cos'è che turba così tanto l'aria del castello sin dal momento della sua nascita, nella prima pagina del primo volume.
Stripped to the bone, Titus Groan and Gormenghast tell a simple story of pre-socialist revolution and why it will inevitably fail.
Steerpike, the ostensible villain, the agent of historical transition, is the working class boy from the kitchens who fails to achieve full political consciousness, seeks no solidarity from his co-workers, and decides to infiltrate the system from within, working alone.
We know he must die in the attempt because even to succeed would be a tragedy - he would have no idea what to do with Gormenghast even if he wrested power from the Groans.
Steerpike must die.
I gave 5 stars to Titus Groan, book 1 in the Gormenghast trilogy, but I find the sequel to be even better.
So,hey Goodreads, if you guys could kindly change the rating system, I would very much like to give Gormenghast, book 2 in the Gormenghast trilogy, six or perhaps even seven stars.
This book was simply and utterly amazing.
It is exactly what Titus Groan is, but on steroids!
So if you're interested, go check my review of Titus Groan and remember that if you thought it couldn't get better, well, it most certainly can.
La legge!“Per via del panorama selvaggio che circondava Gormenghast, e si stendeva da ogni lato fino all'orizzonte, come se il castello fosse un'isola di reietti sopra un oceano desolato e fuori da tutte le rotte commerciali: per via di quel senso di spazio infinito, come poteva sapere Tito che la vaga, confusa insoddisfazione che aveva cominciato a provare di quando in quando non era altro che il tormento di una creatura chiusa in gabbia?
As the second book in the trilogy, Gormenghast doesn't disappoint with even more eccentric characters and mounting tension with our evil villain, Steerpike.
So to see our young Titus Groan heading out at the end of the book, makes me wonder if we'll still have flashbacks of the happenings in our beloved keep.
Either way, the imagery is explicit and entertaining and I never tire of reading Peake's style of writing.
I want to submerge myself in the lush detail of this literature and think of Fuchsia-esque like ways to commit suicide for I am so not worthy to even breathe on the book cover of this talented writer.

How to rate this one? Three stars or four? Well, I'm unlikely to read this again, so I guess three. Or am I? Maybe I'll try it again some day. Four?Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
Sono due mesi due che il secondo volume di Gormenghast mi chiama dallo scaffale dei libri da leggere con canto da sirena. E sinora ho rimandato solo per posticipare il piacere della lettura.Stasera è arrivato il momento, finalmente riparto per Gormenghast!
Oh man, just as dark, exciting and heartbreaking as the first book. Those last 100 pages were a roller coaster of emotions.
Titus is only an infant in "Titus Groan" but in "Gormenghast" he comes to the fore as our protagonist, while the first book is largely about the goings-on in the castle Gormenghast.I could more or less cut and paste that review here: Stunning, constantly surprising prose, farcical humour, plenty of atmosphere, super strange tone and a bare skerrick of plot.It is a testament to Peake's writing that in the first half of the book so little happens that the main plot point is "Urma Prunesquallor plans a party" and I still loved every minute of it.In "Titus Groan" we spend a lot of time with Steerpike the up-jumped kitchen hand and he morphs from ambitious and self centred in the first book into a moustache twirling villain.
Whereas the plot of Titus Groan seemed to take a backseat to the other aspects of the book (not that I minded, I was lost in Peake's wonderful writing), the story in Gormenghast is driven forwards by Steerpike's continued machinations and becomes exciting to read, as well as just beautiful.
On top of this, there was also some decent character development, which Titus Groan also lacked (although, now I think on it, that might have been deliberate, a way for Peake to show the unchanging nature of Gormenghast).
Titus Groan is born into innocence and privilege, then loses it through resentment, suffering, loss, and disillusionment, all within the walls of Gormenghast.
Is Gormenghast home or hell?
And is his foster sister a magical dragon-bird-thing?"And now began the threading of a maze so labyrinthine as to suggest that the builders of the sunless walls had been ordered to construct a maze for no other purpose than to torture the mind and freeze the memory.""...it was only fear that held people together.
The fear of being alone and the fear of being different.""To hell with Gormenghast.""There is nowhere else."
Such drama and pageantry and characters. Peake writes so well. I wouldn't say it's a perfect book, but if you want excellent writing and vivid expression, colourful characters, settings and a plot with tension, I recommend this highly. So lucky to have learned of this book on GoodReads. Thank you to my well-read friends.
With Titus Groan, Peake awakened me to what is possible when writing pen and brilliant mind are in perfect harmony.
In its pages he manages to pry humanity open, examine and play with all its viscera, and stitch everything back together in a way of his own choosing.
Gormenghast, in its dark and dreamlike way, will demand a heavy mental and emotional price, yet it will reward readers who allow the heavy castle stones and it's inchoate characters to permeate their mind.
There is more "action" in this, the second book, than was in Titus Groan, and the book itself feels like a faster read.
I know his vision was superb, his plotting exact, his characters supremely well-observed - sympathetic and horrifying and humorous in equal measures, making the storyline more complex than a simple tale of betrayal and vengeance (inhale).
I know his prose is spectacular......but bloody hellfire does there have to be so MUCH of it?Dear Gods.
The ending is superb, but wading though the water and the weather and the masonry, through the pointless (though perfectly observed) plotlines, through the endless filigree details of characters' emotional motivations, really took an effort.I know I'm doing it a disservice with three stars - really wish I'd enjoyed it more.
Poi l’ombra cresce, prende forma, mentre Gormenghast diventa il teatro di una serie di battaglie, fisiche e mentali, cui reagisce e partecipa perfino il suo cuore pulsante di pietra, avvolto in un silenzio così materiale da riempire gli spazi.Amore, odio, morte, desiderio di vendetta, rispetto della tradizione e ansia di libertà sono solo alcune delle forze in campo.
Una luce quasi mai benevola, più spesso inclemente; un buio pieno di insidie, che raramente porta con sé la pace e la benedizione del sonno.Era una notte che sembrava voler dimostrare, con la sua oscurità fittissima, col suo silenzio assoluto, quanto fosse vano sperare nell'alba.E l’acqua, quella stagnante di un lago che fa da scenario ai festeggiamenti per il decimo compleanno di Tito.
I think I'd only read Gormenghast (the book) once before, maybe twice, whereas I've read the first book, Titus Groan, multiple times.
Titus Groan is chock full of dark images and heavy symbolism seen through an obscuring cloud of gloom.
In Gormenghast, in contrast, Peake literally comes straight out and tells the reader what the symbols are.
It's incongruous, then, for this one to play (we're told) such a central role on Titus' life.Peake does a nice job of reconnecting with other characters, and tieing them back into the castle's (and Titus') story.
Larger than life, with odd names and bizarre exaggerated characteristics, most of the characters in this novel would feel just as comfortable in a Dickens story or in Wonderland as they do in Gormenghast.
It is in this last section that most of the Dickensian nonsense takes place, that makes the book feel less like a fantasy than a farce.
I loved the feeling of size Peake injected into the story, where characters can walk for hours and still be within the castle, where a boy can get lost in a string of tunnels and corridors he never knew existed, where whole wings and buildings and floors haven't been seen, let alone occupied, in centuries.
This book is nothing more than Peake's mad attempts to record what he saw of this chess game between the two-ideals, this fierce battle fought with the figures of his imagination.If the first book, "Titus Groan" was the opening, "Gormenghast" recounts the middlegame and finale of this match.
Titus and Steerpike are the king and queen respectively of the new's brigade, one of them unsure, tentative, able to traverse the board only in little hops, and the other bold, fierce, streaking on diagonals and columns and rows, taking pieces at will.
Below is the review of the book, which hasn't been changed.) At Gormenghast castle--a castle so sprawling and gargantuan that huge sections have fallen into disrepair and been forgotten entirely; a castle where the Queen wanders the halls silently with hundreds of white cats following her; a castle where everyone (almost everyone) follows rituals so old that none know their meaning any longer; a castle where teachers sleep through class periods while students invent dangerous games and hide the bodies of any children that die during them--Titus Groan is growing up.
This book is, like Titus Groan, quite slow.
Come nel primo tomo anche qui toni comici, ironici e grotteschi (una buona prima parte del libro è dedicata alla scuola di Tito, ai suoi tronfi professori che paiono macchiette Dickensiane, e al coronamento dei sogni della vanitosa Irma, la sorella del Dottor Floristrazio, desiderosa di affrancarsi dalla condizione di zitellaggio, sposandosi con il Preside Carampanio) si alternano con quelli più drammatici e avvincenti creando un ritmo sempre più incalzante, fino a un finale che incolla letteralmente il lettore per quasi un centinaio di pagine dalle quali è veramente difficile staccarsi, anche per prendersi solo una breve pausa.Eleganza di stile, originalità di scrittura, uno strabiliante uso delle metafore (che nella stragrande maggioranza dei casi rifuggono i luoghi comuni) sono quelle che già mi avevano già incantato col primo volume.
Steerpike becomes so malignantly evil in the book, at some points I could only read short bits at a time.
Peake draws Steerpike not merely as a one dimensional character, but allows you to see his mental and physical disintegration over time.
The movie was a very good recreation, but not entirely faithful to the book.
Peake still writes beautifully, but you almost have to say he does so in a vacuum, because the novel is so-so, to say the least.
Titus can be such an annoying character and it's just not as tight plot-wise as the other two.
Although a lot happens in last 100 pages of the book, but the first 400 pages are definitely a drag.Some of the strong points of the book are1.Getrude comes out of her slumber.2.Titus rebellion is intriguing to read.3.Steerpike climb through castle hierarchy.Some of the weak points of the book are1.Fuchsia is still a enigma.2.Peake just keeps beating around the bush.Let me expand on the above points1.Getrude comes out of her slumber.The inexplicable disappearance of both Lord Sepulchrave and Swelter was, of course, the burden of Gormenghast – its thoughts’ fibre – from the meanest of the latter’s scullions to the former’s mate.

Wanted to like this.
Realized I couldn't force myself to slog through this self-indulgent wallowing in shabby-romantic blather.
I thought it was a great idea - why did no one ever tell Mervyn to Keep It Simple?
Anyway, we all know how THAT would have ended - Hemingway would shoot any man named Mervyn, just for the principle of it.
Man!
Now I'm getting all sorts of great ideas for rewriting Gormengast in the manner of Hills Like White Elephants...If you've read this book, my congratulations.
I just realized the reviews of this book are nearly all 5 stars.
Looks like I've just made some enemies.)
;)Either way I love it every time I read it and find something new each time.Some people say it is too lengthy to read, or a literary bog of words.But I like it.It has textures, swirls, tangled tangents, and characters that are quirky and fun.Albeit a bit disturbed, but fun.A review is impossible, for me anyway, to write.
;)All I can say is if you have a bucket list for books, may I suggest adding this one.It is a book you can put down and return to as the mood hits you.But I find it a fascinating literary adventure.
