https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6428887-pirate-latitudes
"If only I'd have encrypted my hard drive...."You have to think Michael Crichton's ghost is mouthing those words.Written in 2006 and published only after being digitally pried from the late author's cold, dead computer - Pirate Latitudes comes across as a vanity project never intended to see the light of day.
I'm sure it was great fun to write, but Crichton's attempt to inject research into worn out pirate clichés falls far short of a good story.
But forcing your readers to eat everything on the pirate buffet doesn't make for a good meal.
I was hungry for a good pirate yarn.
Welcome to a brand new episode of 'Late night show with Books'. Our guest for today is.......... Pirate Latitudes!!!!!PL: Hrrrrrrrr S:  PL, how do you feel about being out here in the world? Most of the people believe you were not supposed to see light at all.PL: Gods blood! Who are these rats? but...Well, Sreyas, there is some truth in it. I have been working with Mr.Crichton for more than three decades on this story. Alas, We were nowhere near a serviceable tale. And with Crichton's death, all
Haha, because you are a pirate.PL: [Takes the sword out] The politically correct term is Privateer.
The Governor of that settlement finds out about Spanish Galleon containing valuable treasures staying in island fortress of Matanceros.
We got a French assassin, Gunpowder specialist with three fingers missing, a woman pirate who cross dresses as a man, a helmsman who is also a barber-surgeon and a huge black man who..
Sounds like an intriguing story.
Sounds very realistic and..PL: At the end of part three, the crew glimpses a KRAKEN.
Now tell me what you felt at the end of your journey.
I have seen many reviews critical of this book, but I thought it was a great adventure with interesting characters and twists. Perhaps people are critical of the fact that this is unlike Crichton's other titles, but much like Eaters of the Dead and The Great Train Robbery; it is great, well researched historical fiction. (Note: between Latitudes, Eaters, and Train Robbery, I liked this one the best)
Pirates!
Huzzah!
What could possibly ruin a rollicking, randy, riotous pirate adventure?...Plenty.
Crichton died before this was published and in all likelihood he wasn't finished with it.
I would like to think that if he'd lived he would have worked on this more, rounded out the characters, twisted up the plot a bit, and run it through the edit mill a few times before handing it off to the publisher.
I picked this book up on a lark, having never read Crichton before, but having a love of pirate adventures.
The adventure part was alright.
Two important things for those reviewers to bear in mind: 1) this is way outside Crichton's normal 'genre,' and so readers will look askance at this venture into uncharted waters (couldn't resist the pun!), and 2) the book was found on Crichton's computer after he died, so it may well be that he wasn't finished with it.On that last point, I agree with some reviewers that the book lapses into being slow in places.
Again, perhaps these were sections Crichton intended to revise (and let's not forget that the book would never have made it to print without the publisher's editors getting a go-round at it...
This is not the way for a talented writer to go out. If Chrichton had lived and had the time to revise, edit, etc., I'm sure this would have been much better.
Hunter faces too many varied and successive dangerous challenges for the plot to be "realistic." But we're dealing here with an action novel; jeopardy and derring-do is what it's about, and from that perspective, it isn't a defect that it has a lot of it.
And even novels dealing directly with pirates as such aren't necessarily morally nihilistic; light shines most clearly against darkness, so dark moral environments often serve to bring out the goodness of decent characters who inhabit them.For me, though, the main problem here is that light is largely nonexistent in the darkness that Crichton creates.
From the first chapter, we are placed in the adventure and it ends up being a quick, fun ride.The story was pure Chrichton, well told, detailed, obviously well researched, but the beginning left something to be desired.
The plot of this book didn't suffer, but the little character quirks and ticks I've come to love him for were missing.
I've never written a novel, so don't know if this is possible, but the "Crichton character magic" showed up from page 187, chapter 27, Monkey Bay. The entire flavor became richer, more detailed, exciting.
Welcome to the good ship Cassandra!
She will take you on exhilarating adventure on the high seas of the Carribean, looking for unknown treasures on a Spanish war ship.
This is great stuff that just keeps happening page after page.
I guess in the end, it is what is missing from this story that I just cannot stop thinking about.
These stories, sadly remain untold and their characters are summarilly dismissed.
I do so wish I could have gotten to know them and the events that occurred while the Cassandra was at sea.
That folks would have been a truly great book!
Such remains our loss.
First, did you know that Michael Crichton is dead?!?
I've read a little Michael Crichton in the past - Sphere was wondeful, Prey was OK, Timeline was intriguing but ultimately corny.
I have no idea what lead me to pick up Pirate Lattitudes, but it was fun.
Set in the Carribean (primarily Jamaica) in the mid 1600's, the protagonist is swashbuckling (I've used that word twice in two book reviews now) privateer Captain Hunter.
At this point you may be asking yourself what the difference is between a pirate and a privateer.
You know why I loved this book?
First off, I have to say this is only my second Crichton novel.
The novel does have its shortcomings but you have to wonder if this is because it wasn't truly finished.
This book was found on Crichton's computer after his death so it's possible that this wasn't the intended finished product.
It was hard for me to keep track of all the different pirates, sorry, privateers, and I completely forgot who the final villain was, vaguely remember him from the beginning.
It also really makes me want to go back and try something else from Crichton.All and all, a good final effort.
Huh, this kind of has low ratings (3.36 avg????) for a Crichton book. But it's on sale at Amazon for $0.99 (20 October 2015). I already have a copy of it but wanted to share in case anyone is interested?
Not good, not bad, just meh.
Michael Crichton knows (or knew, I suppose) how to craft an exciting novel.
Unfortunately I was mistaken.Pirate Latitudes is the story of Charles Hunter, privateer, and his crew of misfits as they attempt to take the Spanish galleon El Trinidad.
However, Hunter and his crew fall prey to one ridiculous plot point after another and by the novel's end all credulity has fled for safety.
While reading this novel I couldn't help but wonder if Crichton had any intention of publishing it had he lived, or at the very least if it wouldn't have undergone major revision first.An interesting premise with unfortunate execution.
"Em Território Pirata" levou-me novamente para um mundo de aventuras no mar. Desde pequena que sempre adorei livros deste género e já li alguns, mas confesso que já algum tempo que não me chegava nenhum às mãos.É um livro sem pontos mortos e, no qual, acompanhamos o capitão Charles Hunter numa aventura perigosa, repleta de perigos e reviravoltas, algumas que me apanharam totalmente desprevenida. O único ponto que não gostei no livro foi a introdução do Kraken, que acabou por dar um toque demasiado fantasioso para um livro deste género.
What a thrilling adventure!! Arrgh, mateys: Pirates, booty (and booty calls!), monsters (both human and animal), non-stop action and intrigue. Thank you, thank you, to my Goodreads friend Matthew for encouraging me to read this. I loved it! Now my husband is reading and enjoying the adventure too.
So as a Crichton fan even I will admit that this book is somewhat overstuffed. A Kraken?!! Really?!! Because it's a short book stuffed with so much peril some of the more dangerous elements were perhaps too easy to overcome. Still I was entertained.
There is a bold captain, who is either a privateer or a pirate; several fair and comely maidens of high birth and low; and a band of adventurers each with special skills and powers.The rough and tumble hero, Captain Charles Hunter, sets off to capture a Spanish galleon laden with treasure, at anchor under the guns of an impregnable fortress.He recruits for the mission a French assassin, named appropriately Sanson; a huge mute black man named Bassa but called the Moor; a powder and explosives expert, Don Diego, known either as Black Eye, or the Jew; and a woman, Lazue, who lives and dresses as a man and who happens to have uniquely keen eyesight as well as built in advantage in a knife fight when she flashes her womanly breasts to confuse her opponent.
A last testament to a brilliant authorThey found this book on his hard drive, and lo and behold - it happens to be the best pirate book I've read.
I had previously given that award to the incredible Pirates of the Caribbean: The Price of Freedom, but this has that Crichton-ness to it that just pushes it over the edge.Brimming with authority, fun, going from one incredible scene to the next - I couldn't put this book down, and hung on every word.Was Crichton a pirate author?
No. But he put his hat into the ring, and like so many times he's done that with a genre, he emerges a champion.
It's impossible to know whether Crichton intended this book to be published, or if he wrote it for fun.
Considering it was written in 2006, and discovered on his hard drive after his death, it feels like maybe he wasn't rushing it off to his agent for publication.It's not Crichton in peak form, that's for sure.While the book is entertaining enough, it's missing what I love most about Crichton ...
It's got your storms, your cannibals, your sea monsters, and general pirate treachery.
The first half of the book I felt it was unforgivable that they decided to publish this.
Βιβλιο για παραλια με συνοδεια παγωμενου καφε η μπυρας ως εκει!!!!!!!
If you got a story where the main characters go through what can only be described as a shitstorm, don't make them come out as heroes in every way possible.
On one hand you got a pirate story written by Crichton that was at times slow moving, but eventually it turned into a fun adventure story.
Maybe the pirates were not menacing enough, maybe there was not enough rioting, maybe there was not enough gold fondling, and maybe stop making it so the main characters are not so victorious in every way.
Crichton, like King, has good and bad books.
I quite liked this book, or at least the outline of the book that was published.
Also, there is a major plot development when the main character returns to Port Royal that is unexpected, and seems completely out of kilter with the character's involved - this definitely needed more work/back story.Overall, the book reminded me quite a bit of Wilbur Smith - especially the Courtney novels set around the same time - quite a departure from the normal Michael Crichton fare, although he has written some adventure novels too (Timeline springs to mind).
Black Sails and Pirates of the Caribbean-esque type story, familiar themes. The Manuscript of the book was found among his things after Crichton's death. I don't know, maybe he actually wrote it. But it's a nice way to cap off a distinguished career of a genremaker. A pleasant enough sendoff as he sails into Valhalla.
Excelente novela de piratas, llena de acción y aventuras. Con un ritmo frenético que no te deja soltar las páginas. Me encantó!. Recomendada para aquellos que quieran entretenerse y volar su imaginacion a la vida del caribe.
Particularly since The Great Train Robbery, I often thought that Michael Crichton plotted his books deliberately so the movie scripts "fell out" of them.
A Glock would perhaps do that job, but I think a pistol ball would leave a neat and disappointingly small hole.Then there's the first-act sequence of shots wherein the hero rounds up his accomplices for the mission.
It's all there except for the music, which you can imagine from every other daring-voyage movie you ever saw.I thought the hero, pirate Captain Charles Hunter, was pretty much of a shit most of the time.
I've always been a Crichton fan, and just couldn't pass up the opportunity to read his take on pirates.
This, Crichton's final book, was discovered among his affects after his untimely death in 2008, and HarperCollins published it essentially as they found it.When a Spanish treasure galleon, separated from its convoy near Jamaica, is sighted taking refuge in the bay of the impenetrable Spanish fortress of Monteceros, the Governor of Port Royal commissions a ship of pirates to assault the fortress and hijack the treasure ship.
And it seems that Crichton hadn't gone back and fleshed it out.
For years Crichton had alluded to a project about Jamaica and the Caribbean, and from all indications, Pirate Latitudes is that project.
Over the years I have developed a great interest in pirates, particularly the pirates of the Spanish Main---the old Caribbean of the 17th century.
Like all of the author's novels, Pirate Latitudes is a page turner and moves at a break neck pace.
Beyond the plot itself, which contains all the elements of a great adventure story, the novel features amazing nuggets of information regarding maritime practices of the period,anthropology,and British/Spanish colonial history, that sets Crichton above other best-selling authors of his genre.
Set in 1665, Pirate Latitudes involves a team of privateers, each with unique talents, who are hired to capture a treasure-laden galleon from an island fortress ruled by a brutal Spanish commander.
This is not Crichton’s best novel, and I’m not even sure he was finished with it since the novel was discovered on his computer after his death.
But I’m glad it was published.
Pirate Latitudes is a thoroughly enjoyable read set during a fascinating period of history.
По пиратските ширини сигурност няма: http://knigolandia.info/book-review/p...Историята се развива в средата на XVII век в Карибите.
Дръзкият капер Чарлз Хънтър получава благословията на губернатора на Порт Роял да нападне непристъпна испанска крепост, под дулата на чиито оръдия се крие натъпкан със съкровища кораб.
Още от началото обаче нещата не се развиват според идеята му – атакуващите пирати са пленени, спасяват се на косъм и продължават към своята цел, но вече в очакване да се натъкнат на доста по-сериозни проблеми.
Нападението над испанската твърдина обаче слага само началото на поредица от нови и нови приключения, които постоянно ще поставят живота на капитан Хънтър и съратниците му на изпитание.Издателска къща БАРДhttp://knigolandia.info/book-review/p...
