https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13101981-by-his-bootstraps
Heinlein.Marty: So what made you first think about time travel, Doc?Brown: Science Fiction, my boy!
It explores the paradox of finding yourself in another time – uh, ah, or something like that, forget it, hand me that wrench, Marty.Marty: Paradox’s huh?
What if I see myself in another time?Brown: Well, like I said, Heinlein explores how a time traveler can see himself in another time, maybe even interact with himself –Marty: Doc, I can’t find the wrench, hey what’s this, looks Arabic or Farsi or something – What about all that talk about screwing up future events?
I think this was a byproduct of a very unusual plot challenge.While Heinlein used time travel in other places, it was always of a distant sort.
This was Heinlein's one use of close time travel, so close that at one point three versions of a person aged within days of each other end up in a fist fight.
Like always, such excess by the author is easy to ignore.All in all, a great story making the best use of a common speculative fiction device that I've seen anywhere.
He loves time travel stories, he says.

In spite of its several lacks, I mostly enjoyed By His Bootstraps, particularly because it condenses my personal theory about the quintessence of time.
What is notable about Heinlein's essay is that he touches on the aspect that makes most people shy away from this doctrine: the free-will.
In this regard Mr. Heinlein points out that, the actors in the middle of events are in no way constrained in their choices, and hence they always maintain their free-will.
well, maybe I did, but it didn’t feel like it.”“Why should you expect it to?
More like 3.5PD: Es gracioso como llegué a este libro solo porque el Doctor me dijo que gogleara algo. What can I say? I'm weak.
I had previously been vaguely aware of this story as a sci-fi time travel classic that I needed to read. However I was actually prompted to track it down last fall when the Doctor told me to Google the Boostrap Paradox.https://youtu.be/u4SEDzynMiQ
How to confuse someone with the elemental time travel story?This short story has its own closed über confused loops with some holes left by the author unanswered however backed by some epistemological notions. Read it if you want to experience such a possible life in the world of science fiction. Concepts of Free will, Retro causality, futuristic utopian visions and many more. "If God created the world, who created God? Who wrote the notebook? Who started the chain?" It's all bugging me.
Fairly predictable, but it's in terms of paradox.
If someone had handed this to me in the context of wanting feedback on their work, I would probably have been impressed.
I would also have told them to treat it very carefully, and to rewrite this and this, and then probably give the entire thing a couple more read-throughs.That is to say: this reads like a second draft.
It reads like the second draft of a man who might have been a little too confident that his (fabulous, by the way) idea would carry the rest of the story.
well, kind of cruel; this is a great story, but really only a great start.(Shame Heinlein is long gone.)
When a mysterious stranger appears in his room and tells him to step through a strange doorway, Bob Wilson finds himself thrust into the distant future where a man presents him with a proposal to rule the world.
Now Bob has to deal with the mess of time loops and temporal entanglement.Oh, sweet delicious time travelly goodness.
Watching Bob fumble his way through encounters with himself and stable time loops that ask "where did any of this begin?" is well worth the time.
This is one of the best examples of stable time loops and predestination that I have ever read.A must-read for those with a love of time travel.
Very interesting short story, and one of the first to properly make use of time travel paradoxes in which a character meets himself.
The plot ended up influencing science-fiction as a whole.
Early Heinlein at its most audacious, without many of the social themes that showed up in his later work.
Oddly for Heinlein, his main character is a misogynist arsehole with no desire to better himself - also oddly for Heinlein, it's very soft sci-fi, and mathematics are presented as an esoteric field at best.
Compared to Heinlein's similar short story "—All You Zombies—", this one is more realistic and more self-aware.
I must admit I was a little confused at first and could not decide whether I liked it or not, but after a while I got into the flow of the story and then it started to captivate me. I love the idea of time travel in this short story and I believe the use of language is pretty typical for the time it was written. I did really like it in the end but I can also imagine that it is not going to be a story for everyone.
I don't know how I end up reading this book, though I really enjoyed it. This is the second short story I read from Heinlein, being the first one "All you zombies".... hmmm, interesting no? I liked the way in which Heinlein deepens into time-travel and paradoxes.If you have read both books, you'll know what I was thinking. If not, I encourage you to first read "By his bootstraps", then "All you zombies".
This Astounding Science Fiction is one of my prized possessions. It is a great little insight into the war years, the story rocks and I just had to own something special to remind me of all the enjoyment Robert Heinlein has given me.FOR THE RECORD - it is published in Astounding Science Fiction 1941 under the alias Anson Macdonald. It was reprinted later under Robert Heinlein I believe. My copy is not in good condition & has little real value..............except to me.
It was interesting to read this because it's vintage Heinlein, originally published in 1941. But it's hard to judge it on its own terms since so much more thoughtful work on time travel has been done since. The description says the story "plays with some of the inherent paradoxes" of time travel; and "play" with them is about all it does: there seems no attempt to make any of it make sense, or even to make what happens seem plausible.
The best example of the "Impossibility" approach to fictional time travel (along with Heinlein's short story "All You Zombies," which has a similar plot). See my review of "Dark Matter" for the three literary theories of time travel.
A wonderful short story for the sci-fi-minded. A pleasantly unique examination of the paradox of time travel that's sewn together in a most imaginative way.An intriguing and quick read that I'd recommend to anybody who doesn't mind a narrative that may leave you a bit dizzy.
So mind-boggling that it was amazing. I've read it twice and am still comprehending what went down.
Κάνει την ανάγνωση ευχάριστη και σε αρκετά σημεία συναρπαστική.Τα μόνα θέματα που έχω με αυτήν την ιστορία είναι πως 1)Αναφέρει το πρόβλημα της ελεύθερης βούλησης στο οποίο ο χαρακτήρας βρίσκεται, δηλαδή είναι αναγκασμένος να επαναλάβει ξανά και ξανά τα ίδια γεγονότα άρα πως ακριβώς είναι ελεύθερος να επιλέξει; Ο χαρακτήρας όμως μέσα στην ιστορία ακόμη κι όταν καταλαβαίνει πως βρίσκεται μέσα σε αυτήν την ασταμάτητη επανάληψη πολύ σπάνια σκέφτεται την αδυναμία του να κάνει διαφορετικά.
Δεν προκειταί στο ελάχιστο για έκπληξη όταν στο τέλος ανακαλύπτει πως δεν ξέφυγε απο την λούπα.
By His Bootstraps is another great story exploring the paradoxes of time travel.It opens with a young grad student, Bob Wilson, trying desperately to write his entire thesis in under 48 hours.
I found a PDF online (scanned pages out of Heinlein's collection The Menace From Earth) and read it in probably an hour, so I don't want to get too deep into the plot because it's so easy for you to find and read (and, as with any time travel story, the less you know about it the better) but it was brilliant.
As a short story, there was really no time to think about these mid-read; there was only time to sit back and enjoy the journey.
This is a stunning example of time travel and paradoxes that raises many questions.
It was especially intriguing to watch how Bob Wilson adapts from a young boy and slowly becomes the powerful Diktor (could be derived from the word "dictator").
I found it most interesting to see how he slowly realizes himself that he has become the leader who helped his younger self become successful- for example, when he is the elderly Diktor and he names a girl Arma after the girl he had a crush on when he was young and he first met the Diktor- not realizing that they are technically the same person.
Unfortunately it suffers from: a severely unlikable and obtuse main character; a lot of hokey slang from the time, which is just personally not my taste; an utter disregard for women; and a habit of repeating scenes (due to time travel).
This last offense is partially excusable since you get the perspective of the other Bob in each scene, but even so, Bob's motives and actions don't seem believable in response to the situations he's in.Beyond that, the story seems to glorify the totalitarian position Bob breeds for himself by the end, which is utterly gross.
I confess that I found this story slightly confusing, but that is the paradox of time travel.
What you do or don't do as you repeat groundhog's day, to use an analogy, can make for both interest and frustration to the time traveler.
I plan on re-reading this again soon, as it is not too long, but I really like the idea, and to have put it together in 1941, to me, shows some intellectual initiative.
My first Heinlein piece, but it interests me to read more of his work.Well worth your time if you like this sort of thing, especially time travel.
I read this ages ago for uni and forgot to put it on Goodreads. Not the best (very long) short story I’ve ever read, but I did get full marks on the essay I wrote about it. Wilson was a dick and women are treated like crap and there’s an incredibly frustrating time loop that means the same scene is repeated 3 times with little variation. So yeah. 20th century sci-fi for ya, folks.
Perfect little story about time travel. Sure it's predictable by today's standards, but it's tight, and fun, and knows exactly what it's doing. Really couldn't make it better....well aside from doing something about Heinlein's fascist tendencies.
El relato que dio nombre a la "Bootstrap paradox" ofrece no sólo paradojas temporales, sino también una leve reflexión filosófica sobre la conciencia y el "yo". Desgraciadamente, también nos obsequia con un poco de misoginia marca Heinlein, pero no se puede tener todo.
For its time, this book has aged well, with just the exception of the treatment of women, but the central point of how the time travel works and the paradox it presents are exceptionally well developed.
The best time travel paradox story I have ever read. A classic.
Skip this. If you want a Heinlein time travel story, read ALL YOU ZOMBIES instead.
Everything you ever wanted to know about time travel.
