https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/499437.Shadows_in_Paradise
Умело описание на тъгата, тъгата на всеки човек, съзнаващ, че всичко е преходно а той е единственото същество, което го знае....Разтърси ме. Човешките чувства са описани толкова реално, че на места се стрясках. Накара ме да се замисля над въпроса с емигрантството, какво точно е то и каква е моята гледна точка по въпроса. Изключително реален роман. Роман за същността на човек, нравите му, първосигналните емоции, но и оталожилите се такива.
Shadows in Paradise: http://readwithstyle.wordpress.com/20...Remarque is comparable to no one when it comes to the immigrant’s soul.
Being himself an immigrant from Germany and having been persecuted numerous times for his writings, he understands the immigrant’s dilemma – a longing towards your country, whose people have turned into murderers, and a clear understanding that in order to live you have to flee this country.Shadows in Paradise follows the life of several German immigrants in the US, who are trying to balance between the American dream and the German nightmare.
"Сенки в рая" не е от най-добрите романи на Ремарк ("Черният обелиск" и "Живот назаем" например са много по-силни като внушения), но въпреки това е приятно четиво.
Лично на мен темите, заложени в книгите му (войната, безнадеждността, лутането на човека и силата на окрилящата любов), не ми омръзват, но на моменти диалогичните му сентенции ми идваха в повече.
Някак неестествено беше да се прочете това в думите на героите, много не на място, високопарно дори.
Иначе очакван тъжен край и все пак се радвам от избора, който героят направи в края на книгата.
Сигурно е ужасно да се скиташ като изгнаник, без път и посока.
I love women portraits in Remark's books. As if they know something special that allow them to survive and cope more efficient than men do.
Подарена ми неочаквано за Коледа, тази книга се превърна в нещо, което ще си спомням дълго време. Дали защото ми е първата книга на Ремарк или защото "романтичната" история, която присъства в почти всяка книга под една или друга форма, тук е леко нетипична (а може би съвсем типична за времето си), но определено книга, която ме накара да се обърна и към други заглавия от автора! ( :
Bet buvo ir daug kitų įdomių žmonių – moteris, laikoma emigrantų motina, kurios didžiausia svajonė buvo grįžti į Vokietiją, kad ir kaip žiauriai toji su ta elgėsi, ir paskutiniais mėnesiai sunkiai sirgdama ji laikėsi tik minties, kad karas visgi baigsis, kaip koks surambėjęs britas net statė karo veiksmų figūrėles ant žemėlapio ir ironiška, būtent karas ją, esančią toli nuo jo, ir nužudė – mirė neatlaikiusi beprasmiško nacių pasipriešinimo.
Tik dar nematytas rakursas buvo žiūrėti į visa tai iš toli, matyti kaip amerikiečių režisieriai nesuvokia karo, kuriame ir patys dalyvauja, nesuvokia, kas vyksta nacių okupacijoje ir girdėti, kad Amerikos žiūrovai tikrąja padėtimi niekaip nepatikės.
I love Remarque's books, even the ones that have somewhat predictable endings or story lines.
He provides small, particular details about characters and their lives that make you feel that you know these people, that you live during their times, feel their feelings....
He does not just write about pre, post, during war, he writes about people living their lives during those turbulent times.One thing I noticed in most of his books is how they are somewhat centered around drinks/foods choices of the main characters: it is vodka and gulyash in some, tequila in another, schnapps, scotch, etc.
Remarks paliek remars un "Ēnas" tur tiešām bija ēnas. Jorpojām nesaportu kā var tik skaisti uzburt to atmosfēru. Lai arī notikumu maz, atmosfēra ir ideāla (nu tā drūmā zudusī paaudze).Liels prieks bija par to, ka Raviks (nu tas no "Triumfa arkas") ir izglābies un pat dabūjis dokumentus praktizēt Amurikā.Grāmata ir labs atgādinājums par to, ka pēdējais Pasaules karš nemaz tik sen nebija - jau toreiz bija helikopteri un automašīnas!
Эта книга далась мне намного легче, чем другое произведение "Триумфальная арка". Насыщенный сюжет, интересные персонажи.
Ремарк очевидно вече е намерил себе си, когато е писал тази книга.
Trochu slabší Remarque. I tak skvělé čtení, nicméně mě nechytlo tolik, jako jeho jiné knihy (mezi/válečné).
Щастието е скучно, нещастието не е.
a tumultuous bio, remarque survived two world wars, his lovers included Marlene Dietrich and Paulette Goddard, he was an avid and knowledgeable art collector, a NYC night owl, and reputed author of very fine cocktail recipes.remarque's NYC is thus a strange, glamorous combination of night-clubbing and WWII refugee purgatory.
the two worlds collide through our man Ross--the book's narrator--who has survived the concentration camps, fits in (though he's a goy) with the jewish refugees, comes to court a fashion model, and ends up as an assistant for an art dealer to the super-rich.
Maybe it's because love in Remarque's books is always brief, so the only choice that characters have is to enjoy every moment of it ..."Shadows in paradise" has a love story between Ross and Natasha at it's core, which will later turn out to be the most important event in the life of Ross.
Natasha is quite a character herself - perhaps one of Remarque's best.
Instead of calvados that we got used to, the main drink of "Shadows in Paradise" is ...
Видимо время было такое, а Ремарк мастер историй с невеселым и не очень хорошим концом.
Главный герой (иммигрант Роберт Росс, с чужим именем)пытается найти себя, полон мести, потерян, и не понимает, что ему делать.
Очень много размышлений на тему смысла жизни, целей человека, потерь и потерянности, свободы, войны и ее конце, жизни иммигранта во время Второй Мировой...
Росс пытается так неистово забыть о том, что с ним произошло за те годы, что он был в бегах и концлагерях, что воспоминания преследуют его в кошмарах и не оставляют в покое...
пережитое поглощает его, он не хочет об этом говорить особенно с Наташей...
Lai arī "Ēnas paradīzē" nav no Remarka populārākajiem darbiem, un daudzi (tāpat kā es) droši vien neko daudz nav (nebija) par to dzirdējuši, manuprāt, tas ir brīnišķīgs, un uzrakstīts ļoti meistarīgi (ar visu pieredzi, kas viņam rakstīšanā bijusi), jo galu galā tas ir pēdējais Remarka romāns. Remarka rakstīšanas stils man atgādināja Hemingveju (un mazliet arī Patriku Modiano), kuri no vienas puses raksta konkrēti un racionāli, taču no otras - tam visam ir nostalģijas piegarša, emocionāls pagrimums, sāpes un daudz pārdomu par (labām un sliktām) atmiņām kā daļu no dzīves. Lieku 4,5 zvaigznes no 5. Plašāk par grāmatu manā blogā: http://pl-inga.blogspot.com/2016/08/e...
I consider Remarque as one of the leading writers of his period.
His style is subtle, and gives the reader to figure out his conclusions for himself.
I take great joy in reading Remarque, as I can connect with the characters, resting when reading his books.I would give the book five stars for it's style, if it wasn't for the rape scene mid-book.
I hate things like this put into literature, into filmmaking, et cetera, for reasons like cheap catching attention of a reader (similar to screamers or body horror in movies) and for the moral value in itself.
For that, I must remove two stars.
I found it simple and wonderful. A simple story about life of an ordinary person who survived in war. Taking deeper, a story about the long-term influence of II world war on people's lives: they can not live as usual, they are doomed to be lost and even in the paradise they are merely shadows. Love, friendship - everything is different under haze of the past.
Reading any Remarque's book keeps you awaken. All the time you can't stop thinking: how this man could have found out all your pessimistic thoughts and put into his works? His works are amazing not only because of plot and specific characters but because of that strange atmosphere which his novels are filled with...
But I also knew that there was no going back. One can never go back; nothing and no one is ever the same. All that remained was an occasional evening of sadness, the sadness that we all feel because everything passes and because man is the only animal who knows it.
fantastic book, one of Remarque's better ones describing life as a European refugee in America during the War and the difficulties and hardships of letting go of the past "a sadness that we all feel because everything passes and because man is the only animal who knows it"
Сърце и душа във всеки ред на тази книга...
Zonde van mijn tijd geweest. Nu aan het einde van het boek nog steeds niet duidelijk wat de schrijver nou wil vertellen. Jammer want zijn andere boeken doen dat wel
Sadly, Remarque is just another guy saying "her mouth said no, but her soul/body/inner woman said yes".
Re-read this year. Still as powerful...
Not my favorite Remarque novel (protagonist a bit detached, yet understandably so; Natasha is literally a b-tch and slut; neither of them are honest about their emotions and hence suffer).
However, as with all Remarque the dialogue is entertaining and makes the story move quickly, and despite the dreary WWII backdrop, his seemingly effortless writing style made this a pleasure to read.
Don't see why people are complaining about the rape scene - it's a BOOK and the protagonist doesn't actually rape Natasha- he is about to and then she suggests they head somewhere private.
Also, much crazier sht went on during the world wars.
Yazarın Türkçe'ye çevrilmiş bildiğim tüm kitaplarını okudum. Bu kitap da kronolojik olarak en son okunması gerekenlerden. EMR gelmiş geçmiş en iyi yazarlardan olmakla beraber özel hayatında da "insan" bir kişidir.
If it is the first Remarque’s book one reads, i believe, he will enjoy it and will be pushed to further explore the author. As for me, it is not of his strongest ones. However, I was ones again touched by the characters and their stories, as well as by the emotional ending.
যুদধ শেষ হয়, যুদধ ভয়াবহতা না। কাঁদতে কারন লাগে না, আর যে মানুষটাকে ভালবাসবে তার অতীত জানা জরুরি না কুকুর ঘেউ ঘেউ করে, তবু কাফেলা থেমে থাকেনা। এমন অনেক সুনদর সুনদর উকতি আছে বইটাতে। বইটা মূলত শরণারথীদের জীবনের পরেম ও বাঞচনার গলপ
যুদ্ধ শেষ হয়, যুদ্ধ ভয়াবহতা না। কাঁদতে কারন লাগে না, আর যে মানুষটাকে ভালবাসবে তার অতীত জানা জরুরি না৷ কুকুর ঘেউ ঘেউ করে, তবু কাফেলা থেমে থাকেনা। এমন অনেক সুন্দর সুন্দর উক্তি আছে বইটাতে। বইটা মূলত শরণার্থীদের জীবনের প্রেম ও বাঞ্চনার গল্প৷
শেষে এসে কি যে একখান শক খেলাম, মাইরি!
