https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/142440.Mr_Blandings_Builds_His_Dream_House
I've been wanting to read this for ever (it seems), as the Cary Grant movie based on the book is one of my favorite black and white "oldie-goldies".What a letdown the book was.
Not even a fraction as funny, charming and endearing as the movie.
The coarse language came as an added (and unwelcome) surprise considering this was written in the 1940's.
At times, I even found it a depressive story; rather ironic considering it's supposed to be a humorous story of the trials and tribulations of home ownership - keyword here: 
HUMOROUS
Disappointing read.
Off to watch the superior movie adaptation :D
This is a hard book to know how to rate.
It's a story of a husband and wife who decide to buy a home in the country so they can have an idyllic life away from the noise and bustle of the city.
You could also say it's a book about a mid-life crisis.
Their decisions are mainly emotional, hasty, and unprepared for so they get into a bunch of hassle and get taken advantage of at every turn.
If you like to see people make foolish decisions and make fools of themselves, then this is the book for you!
Laugh-out-loud funny. I only wish there were more entries in Mrs. Blandings Diary.
Cary Grant starred in it as Mr. Blandings.This book is essentially a comedic tale of a naive advertising executive and his wife in New York City who buy an old country home in Connecticut.
As things turn out they have to tear down the house and have a new one built.
By the end they've spent three times as much money as they had expected to when they embarked on this adventure.
As the book ends, and the Blandings are finally living in the house that was such an incredible struggle to have built, yet another problem is looming on the horizon.
The major difference between the novel and the movie is that the movie's time line is majorly compressed (the whole story takes place in a single season) compared to the novel's (the story takes place over a few years).
Most characters in the movie were very true to their counterparts in the novel, however, with the exception of Mr. Tesander, who is hired to drill for water; in the novel he is an Eastern European immigrant, while in the movie he was a down home country character.
My favorite line out of the whole book was, "In his methodical progress through the earth's crust, Mr. Tesander was encountering everything in an omnipotent God's creation except water." Great read!

I don't know if you've seen the old Cary Grant movie made from this book, but my advice is to watch the movie and not worry about the book.
It was really stressful--one catastrophe after another, without all that fun Cary Grantness to give you some comic relief.
There was humor, and it was pretty well-written, but I just couldn't enjoy it because it was riddled with too much swearing.
It was written in the 40's, for heaven's sake!
I just didn't expect it to be so foul.
.Watch the movie--it's 5-star!
This was a nice little trip back in time, but it also shows the more things change the more they stay the same. Home renovation/redecoration never goes the way you plan & it NEVER costs what you think it should!!!
I realize that researching "the best way to dig a well" is easier now in the era of Google than it was in the 1940s, but the fact that Mr. Blandings just said "oh, dig the well there" without consulting an engineer first, just made me cringe, knowing that the well was just going to be yet another disaster, along with everything else that has gone wrong.
It's not that buying land and building a house is soooooo difficult, it's that Mr. Blandings knows NOTHING about any step of the process, and refuses to admit that he knows nothing, so does no research, asks no questions, and hires no experts or consultants to help.
BLANDINGS BUILDS HIS DREAM HOUSE.
****.If you have ever gone through the trauma of building your own house, this novel is for you.
One’s vision is always clear.
Unfortunately, the vision is not always transferable to the professionals that you have to deal with.
On top of all this is the subject of costs.
Although target costs are always in mind, it seems that any control soon goes out the window.
The ordeals of the Blandings struck home in many ways, since I have been in their situation twice so far in my life.
I found that I agree with some of the reviewers here.
While this book was OK, it just wasn't interesting enough to finish.
I read halfway through and most of it was interesting, I got a few chuckles, but then felt it bogged down in the details.
I made it to the part where Mr. Blandings is explaining to Mrs. Blandings how the well was being dug, how the expense was charged, and mathematically how much water was expected to gush forth per minute.
Mr. Blandings stated that after explanation Mrs. Blandings didn't get it.
Stopped reading after that.Watch the movie, it is much better.
Mr. Blandings is doing well at work and decides it is time to own his own house.
So he goes to Connecticut and buys land to build his dream house.It starts slow.
It is better when you read it with sarcasm as Mr. Blandings has trouble with the seller, the architects, and the builder.
It becomes extremely funny in Book 2 when I read Mrs. Blandings' journal entries about it.
The ownership of the house is funny also as Mr. Blandings figures out how much this house cost him and now he is responsible for repairs and additions he hopes to add.
Perhaps not quite as charming as the film with Cary Grant and Myrna Loy, but still a wonderfully funny and relevant read. The amounts of money involved seem trivial today -- until you begin to adjust for inflation! Seriously, if you have ever built, or even renovated, a house, this book will strike a chord that will make you laugh and cringe in equal measure.
Mr and Mrs Blandings find there dream home, but it quickly turns into a nightmare. A book for anyone who's bought a house only to discover all the things the seller neglected to mention.
The place they end up buying, and get thoroughly ripped off on, should have been demolished years ago, so they'll need build a brand new house.
I picked up this novel published in 1946 because I love the hilarious movie starring Cary Grant and Myrna Loy, which was released in 1948.
I didn't release until very recently that it was actually based on a very real book.
Since the movie is so great, I expected the book would be just as good, if not better.
As it turns out, the movie is by far better.
Final verdict: Skip the book, watch the movie instead.
In the BookCrossing forums there is a long standing debate about film adaptations of books.
That's where the film adaptations come in; when I see a film has been inspired by a book I am almost certain to find a copy to read for myself.
But it was the Cary Grant version that made me want to read the book.
The diary entries really caught my attention because they read so much like modern blog entries (minus the emoticons).Besides the quirky narration, the book is illustrated by William Steig.
They ran an article entitled:"Mr Blandings' Dream House - Revisiting an American Icon in Connecticut." I was so intrigued, I read the book, researched the author and the house in Connecticut (which is still there in New Milford, Ct).
The 'Blandings' tire of living in a cramped Manhattan apt., and begin looking for their dream house in the country (Connecticut).
They end up falling in love (love can be blind!) with a 170 year old house and purchasing it for 5 times more than it's worth.
*In real life--the author almost went bankrupt and two years after moving into the house, he was forced to sell it.
For reasons that would become apparent, the movie with Cary Grant, Mr Blandings Builds His Dream House, was one of their favorites.I didn't even know it was a book until recently, and immediately checked it out from the library.
As someone familiar with clients who misunderstood the nature of change-orders or that, indeed, they cost extra money, or clients who argue ferociously over whether or not an extra closet is really needed, or even a home-owner yourself, you'll laugh yourself sick.
Mr. and Mrs. Blandings naively step into home-owning, and later home-building, and find themselves stuck in the mud before too long.
Can say for certain that this book is utterly brilliant and worth at least 4.5 stars for sheer truthfulness and insight.
Couldn't entirely appreciate this truthfulness however, as the comedy struck too close to home to be enjoyable!
When you're reading about the trials of building a home and every situation seems familiar (either because you've fallen into these traps in the past, or can easily see yourself doing so in the future), the laughs become morbid.On a more positive note, the language is wonderful.
Everything Hodgins describes, even in the shortest or simplest phrases, becomes a very clear picture to you as you read.

This is a really, really funny book, touching on just about every nightmare a home owner could possibly imagine.
Eric Hodgins put his never-used engineering degree from M.I.T. to work overtime, to come up with dilemmas from jacking up the sagging foundation, to the famous"Taj Mahal" closet with changes totaling $1247.00.
Mr. Blandings and his equally long-suffering wife are never mentioned by first name, but they still come across as the vulnerable, fallible type of people most of us are when confronted by construction madness.
The illustrations by William Stieg are the icing on the cake in this highly entertaining story.
I haven't seen the movies that are based on this book so this was a fresh read for me.
I wouldn't say it's laugh out loud funny and you really do feel for Mr. Blanding as everyone even his wife seems to be against him.
But then at times you look at both him and his wife and are like you are overreacting especially when a cottage was built down then hill from them and they were upset about it hurting the view but it could barely be seen.
This is book one finished in my 26 book challenge: This challenge was read a book with a blue cover.
I've loved the movie for years, so it's no surprise I enjoyed the book. Anyone can relate to Blanding's situation...stuck between dreams and realities and the capital required to make that happen. It's always more than you plan for, even when you think you're being frugal. The book didn't have the same pace as the movie; but I couldn't help but envision Cary Grant and his delightful expressions throughout. All in all an enjoyable romp through the trials and tribulations (and mostly trials) of trying to own/build/follow one's dream.
This is one of the Guardian's Top 1,000 novels? It's slow, repetitive and, well, repetitive. Certainly I've read worse. But I've read an awful lot better. It takes forever for the Blandings to get anywhere near deciding what their dream house is, while they play the back and forth real estate purchasing game. By the time things are settling I've lost all interest. What's so great here? It passed me by, that's for sure.
Funny from beginning to end! Have you ever seen "The Money Pit"? If so, and you enjoyed it, then this book will surely have you laughing from the first few pages on to the very last period. What starts out as a quest to build a simple home away from the madness of the city becomes something else entirely as the unfortunate Mr. Blandings soon learns. No spoilers here! You must read this masterfully written book and learn of the fate of Mr. Blandings for yourself!
* 1000 novels everyone must read: the definitive listSelected by the Guardian's Review team and a panel of expert judges, this list includes only novels – no memoirs, no short stories, no long poems – from any decade and in any language. Originally published in thematic supplements – love, crime, comedy, family and self, state of the nation, science fiction and fantasy, war and travel – they appear here for the first time in a single list.
This is the only book I have ever read that I did not prefer to the movie rendition. It is a fun look at the process of building a home in post-WWII America. Some historic preservation issues come up in it, including when is it appropriate to buy an old house to tear down and rebuild a different one? The movie is funnier than the book, but I recommend this read to anyone contemplating building a house with their spouse. This couple is the terror of many architects.
This bestselling comic novel of postwar suburbia, a sort of genteel forerunner of The Money Pit (not to mention the earlier 1942 film, "George Washington Slept Here" with Jack Benny and a similar theme), was promptly made into a great movie in the late 40's with Cary Grant and Myrna Loy. I spotted this 1946 original printing at Goodwill for 50 cents this evening. The first page I opened had someone calling someone else a bastard, so I was sold. Review soon.
Quite entertaining! A delightful story that now compels me to get the movie. Another reader had commented on the excessive vulgarity of the dialogue. I did find it a bit much considering the social standards at the time, but usually reasonably well positioned in the story, so with only a couple of exceptions did I find it excessive. For someone looking to build his own dream house, it has lessons that will be useful later. A quick read for anyone looking a light, enjoyable story.
The original Money Pit. Mr. Blandings and his wife purchase a farm house in Connecticut to escape their tiny apartment in New York. However the house is declared structurally unsound so they are forced to tear it down and build a new house. Thinking that they can build a dream home they set to work but face the difficulties of construction problems and temperamental workman, as well as difficult neighbors and going over budget. Overall this is fun read.
