https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4413273-the-phoenix-on-the-sword
Why 5 stars for a 1932 pulp fantasy fiction short story?Because this was the first appearance of Conan the Cimmerian AKA Conan the Barbarian AKA King Conan etc etc.Why has Chuck Norris never portrayed Conan in film?
Conan has been a cult persona of the magnitude of Tarzan, James Bond and Oz spawning decades of comics, a franchise of further adventures authored by such writers as L.
Conan's influence has been a part of fantasy fiction ever since.As a pimply teenager in suburban America, I had a stack of Conan and King Conan comics and to this day (though my collection has diminished in size and attention) my prize is still a Conan #3.
I bought on a whim, a collection of pulp fantasy short stories that really laid the ground work for the genre of fantasy that we know and love today.
The worldbuilding is definitely heavier than I think any short story probably has the right to be, but what was there was pretty awesome.
I already love the world, and the way that Howard makes the reader work to piece together the lay of the land and the characters, kingdoms and ancient evils within it.
I was invested enough by the end that I already want to know what happens next, as well as what happened before.
I haven't seen such horrible odds since a corrupt posse had William Tell Sackett surrounded in the hills.
So much for that posse and so much for the outlaws who dared to stand against the Cimmerian's sword.
I cut my teeth on comic books as a child and Conan was always one of my favorites.
He was the original sword and sorcery hero and there has never been another warrior who could match the raw barbaric ferocity of Conan.
Crom, but how I miss my adventures with Conan the barbarian.
This, fellow fantasy writers and fans, is how you write a book.The prose hasn't aged a day, nor has the story: in fact, the opening pages seem eerily Thrones-ey, with a dark and subtle plot wherein political savants attempt to spring an aging king from his throne.
Today's authors and auteurs cast action the way a teenage fan-fiction writer writes sex: Wait, I thought he was over there!
How many hands do these people have, exactly?The mythological references are a hoot, as they are in every Conan story, and the story's full of bits of (for the time) outlandish mysticism like the ancient ring and invisible demon which would later become staples of fantasy.
5.0 stars. This story contains the first appearance of Conan in print. It takes place at a time when Conan was King of Aquilonia having secured the throne by strangling the former king, Numedides, on his throne (in true Conan fashion). This story introduces the reader to Conan's world full of barbarians, wizards and monsters including, the evil sorcerer Thoth-Anon. EXCELLENT (5.0 STARS)
Fun pulp, with the introduction of Conan as the King of Cimmeria, fighting off bad guys intent on whacking him through any means necessary. The showdown is pretty gory, more than I was expecting. Brains running out and blood covering the floor and stuff like that. Cool!Conan fanboys scholars have way more to say about this than I do. The Conan movies are a fading memory and I simply picked this one up because I love a good, short pulpy read where action is the name of the game.
Great short novella and a great introduction to Conan, he's a barbarian, strong and battle driven, yet. He is not stupid at all. He actually seems to be very well educated and cunning. There's also some strange Lovecraftian tone to the whole thing. I'll look into that and keep reading the stories of course.
I don't think I would have picked up a Conan book if not for the influence of the group Fantasy Aficionados here on Goodreads.
However, I am glad I did.
Howard's imagery paints a picture.
Even in this first book I can see the strong influence these books have had on the fantasy genre.
I was fascinated with how Howard wove ancient cultures into the narrative.
My one little quibble is that I didn't feel invested in the characters - not unexpected with a short story.
But I love to make friends with characters so I'll just have to read more of these.
Short and pulpy, as when Conan's axe cleaves you from skull to teeth.
Be that at is it may the seeds to the some of the darker strain of modern fantasy are found here--in fact, reading this story it's absolutely that Howard is the primary influence on George RR Martin's dark and popular brand of fantasy.
This story gives no fuck about literature -- and in some ways it's all out of balance -- but really it just wants to impart a cool story stuffed with magic and ass kicking action--yet Howard went out of his way to build a fairly complex world(Hyboria, set 10 000 or 30 000 years in the past, sometime "between the fall of Atlantis and the rise of...some other mythical empire) and history to gives his characters--the evil political plotter, the dark Stygian demon summoner Thoth-Amon and of course the uber-badass Conan in.Awarded an extra star for semenality.
The Phoenix on the Sword by Robert E Howard - 5/5 starsThis was actually one of the original short stories by Robert E Howard -- creator of Conan.
I’ve been meaning to read more of his stories for a while.
I remember having read Conan: The Conqueror, which was a very good read as well.The story starts off with Conan as King Conan of Aquilonia, a civilized and mighty Kingdom in Robert E Howard’s world.
It may appear odd to readers new to Conan stories that he is a King.
I hope to read another Robert E Howard story immediately.
The first of the Conan stories is by no means the best, it is in fact if judged purely on it's own merits simply adequate.
However it is unfair to judge this work simply on it's own merits, instead one needs to take into account that this story was very much the birth of something more.
Howard was a master, not as a writer, his skills in that arena were always somewhat lacking, no instead Howard was a master story teller.
It is this mastery for which we praise him, for it is a far rarer ability then simple skill with words.
Whoever ends up sitting on the Iron Throne in George R.R. Martin's saga would do well to heed Conan's lament:"I did not dream far enough, Prospero.
When King Numedides lay dead at my feet and I tore the crown from his gory head and set it on my own, I had reached the ultimate border of my dreams.
In the old free days all I wanted was a sharp sword and a straight path to my enemies.
Now no paths are straight and my sword is useless."
I was quite impressed with this story. It tells the tale of a treacherous plot to bring down Conan the King. The story telling is fast paced, and the introduction of characters makes them each unique. Yet, for being a short story, and the first instance of Conan, the world presented appears to be fully envisioned. There are hints of histories not yet presented, but the characters being fully aware of them. REH had some definite craft here I was not expecting.
By Crom! Conan the Cimmerian is legend! Robert Ervin Howard achieved greatness in creating an enduring character and warrior in Conan in the early 1900's, and thus setting into motion the sword and sorcery genre. Conan is raw! All these tales of the barbarian are well worth a read.
Conan is a hardcore badass that puts many modern fantasy *heroes* to shame. He might not be the deepest in terms of character (at least not from what little I’ve read of him so far,) but you have to admire the sheer amount of adrenaline, excitement and gory intensity he delivers with nearly every scene in which he is involved.
Uma boa introdução a esze universo de Conan, planta vários elementos do universo e ainda deixa um gancho para uma próxima história
Although the very first story written by Robert E.
As is the Lovecraftian influence, as in this passage: 'Those eyes grew and became gigantic, and in them the Cimmerian glimpsed the reality of all the abysmal and blasphemous horrors that lurk in the outer darkness of formless voids and nighted gulfs'.
If your looking for a quick fantasy fix this story will do. Robert Ervin Howard is more than a exceptional fantasy writer who has a descriptive but yet fast style which has the story move along so the reader does no feel really any lull. This was my first ever Conan story and I can tell you it wont be my last.
Got an epub collection of Conan stories, in order of publication. Will probably buy a nice hard copy collection later on, but I wanted to read some of these NOW. This is yet another classic pulp-SF-fantasy writer that I've never actually read anything by....until now.Update: First actual Conan story = finished! Absolutely loved this story, and can't wait to read the rest of them.
A short story of sword and sorcery. It didn't disappoint me. Fast, entertaining and you almost can smell and touch what is described there.Definitely a must for anyone really interested in reading Conan's stories.
Wow, Conan certainly had a mess on his hands! I felt for him when he wished he could go back to the days when things were as simple as just smashing skulls. Entertaining read!
Conan! A fun classic fantasy. Better than I expected.
More roughly written than what Howard usually wrote, this is still a very entertaining tale and quintessential Conan.
Had to read the story that Conan first appears. Loved it great story.
All in all a really good read. I'm pleased to say that Howard really exceeded my expectations. Looking forward to reading more.
Skulls cloven to the teeth, nameless horrors summoned by blood-soaked sorcery AND musings on the politics of poetry and the popular opinion?Hook, line and sinker.
Read this as a kid, never forgot it.
Fun pulp story that will pull you in and entertain. Not at all what I expected, which made it all the ore fun. Will definitely read another one.
Always a fun read
