https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28296.W_or_the_Memory_of_Childhood
This is Perec looking back in his thirties, trying to piece together fragmented memories, the events that took place during his childhood, but the best he can conjure are details of an elaborate imagined world that he created for himself at the time, an uncharted Island off Tierra del Fuego called W.
Exploring a single letter was one among many devices used by Perec, and again here he plays around with letters as well as numbers in his detailed descriptions of what took place on W, and his use of photographs plays a big part when recollecting childhood.
Sometimes the face of an author or the title of a book conceals a lot more than what it is capable of revealing and the same happened when I picked this book. My first Perec and I expected something completely different from what was eventually encountered. W, or The Memory of Childhood is a revelation of unconventional sorts where the measured doses of harrowing truth are served in a fantastical glass bowl, which is destined or susceptible to break sooner than later.   She died without understa
W, or The Memory of Childhood is a revelation of unconventional sorts where the measured doses of harrowing truth are served in a fantastical glass bowl, which is destined or susceptible to break sooner than later.
The purpose is not to simplify but to assert lives of those who died “without understanding” and left behind the ones who lived to achieve that knotty understanding which is untangled here with the help of an inconsistent memory of our narrator.
A memory tainted with pain and the only relief can be sort within the written word.
W, the double-V, dooble-veh, twin Vs side-by-side, as a symbol manipulable into any number of iterations- turn it upside down it becomes the “M” of memory, join the twin Vs at the tip and they become a mathematical symbol of multiplication, the X that marks the spot for one seeking treasure, or that acts, in a text, as the mark of deletion for an expunged word or letter (perhaps an e?), or it is a railroad crossing, a place from which one might see trains depart (to where?)- tilt the X and it becomes a St. Andrew’s cross or the cross of the crucifixion, extend the endpoints of the tilted X just a bit and we find we have made ourselves a swastika… but let us take the double-V’s doubling nature now as the essence of the two strands of this book - the first, Perec’s attempt to seek out by way of Mnemosyne the elusive fragments of his early childhood in France during WWII - the second, a nightmare tale of an island on the other side of the world called W, a society devoted to inhumanly cruel Sport.
How can you explain that this is life, real life, this is what there’ll be every day, this is what there is, and nothing else, that it’s pointless believing something else exists or to pretend to believe in something else, that it’s not even worth your time trying to hide it, or to cloak it, it’s not even worth your time pretending to believe there must be something behind it, or beneath it, or above it?
There’s not even any hope that time will sort things out.
I found nothing, and it sometimes seemed as though I had dreamt, that there had been only an unforgettable nightmare.”W, or the Memory of Childhood is a duad of parallel narrations: first is a true story of the childhood, ruined by the war and fascism, and the second is a pure fiction of Olympic utopia…“A triple theme runs through this memory: parachute, sling, truss: it suggests suspension, support, almost artificial limbs.
So here are some incentives: try to imagine writing a memoir of your childhood between the ages of three and nine, set in the period from 1939 to 1945.
Now you have an idea of the treats in store in the Souvenir d'Enfance or Memoir part of this book.Next, imagine that the child who experienced such a childhood later created an incredibly detailed and complex fictional world based on the brutal rules of the survival of the fittest in order to explain to himself the inhuman logic behind the notion of concentration camps.
The cool, objective, logical tone of the writing in W draws you in.
So, of course, you have this whole notion of a double life, which in one sense is reflected in twinned stories of the book, which in another is reflected in the fact that Perec's memories of his childhood are inconsistent with what his relatives and the objective evidence tell him, which is reflected in the fact that Winckler is clearly Perec's double, which is further reflected by the fact that Winckler himself has taken on the name of a mute child lost at sea around the fabulist island and is that child's double, which island is itself a double or stand-in for all the sorts of fascism in the world… It's like a bloody hall of mirrors and I really don't wanna go and figure how it all works.
"W," the short novel/autobiography under review here, like the French "double V," is made up of two connected narratives, presented in alternating chapters.
One is comprised of fragmentary memories from Perec's childhood as an orphaned Jew, whose father died in the early years of the War and whose mother was murdered at Auschwitz.
The other narrative is of an imaginary island where everything is organized around sport.
This small book is very much worth the short time it takes to read and Perec's dystopia is no less horrific than Orwell's "1984."
It'll shade your memory of the decathlon and many other track & field events.
Perec's book has been haunting me in unexpected ways as I tune into the coverage.
These parallel narratives deal with the unreliable nature of memory, the seductions of storytelling, and the spaces in between - which is exactly where this tale really takes place.
The Holocaust is rarely spoken about directly and you get the sense that Perec doesn't want to be defined by it, but that it's also marked his life deeply in ways which he struggles to express.
Perec, her zamanki gibi çok iyi.Aslında kitabın ikinci bölümü, ilk önce bir hayli sıkıcı geldi; More'un Ütopya'sının sportif bir versiyonuydu zira, W ülkesinde anlatılan.
Hakkında bir dolu şey öğrendim ayrıca, mesela en başta, aslında Polonyalı olduğunu (bunu bilmemek belki de benim ayıbımdı).
Ayrıca babasının savaşta, annesinin de -muhtemelen- Auschwitz'de gaz odalarında ölmüş olduğunu, bu sırada Perec'in 6 yaşında olduğunu...
Zaten 46 yaşında da, gencecik öldü, garibim.Ve tekrar; W ülkesinin zalim yöneticilerini aktarırken, orada ezilenlere de bir parantez açıyordu ve biraz da eleştiriyordu, belki de haklıydı:"İki dünya vardır, Efendilerinki ve kölelerinki.
Ama W Atleti bunu bile bilmez.
But in the crisscross web they weave as in my reading of them I know there is to be found the inscription and the description of the path I have taken, the passage of my history and the story of my passage” (6-7).And so the chapters alternate between Perec’s sparse and admittedly very imprecise memories of his childhood and a recounting of his fictional story of the land of W, a land completely consumed by sport.
Thus, Perec intertwines a completely fictitious story, but, fittingly, even that has origins in his memories of his own childhood.
In fact, one gets the sense as they read that Perec is consciously keeping his own creative faculties in check, especially in the memoir sections, that he's unwilling to paper over the painful gaps in his childhood with the life-affirming avalanches of language that constitute much of his oeuvre.The pleasures here are slow, careful ones; the book moves forward almost in a series of evasions - the adventure theme appears and then disappears, an early memoir draft is trotted out and then thoroughly invalidated through precise footnotes that make Perec's early self look like a self-centered asshole.
The tenuous connection between the conjoined V's of the story suggests the fragility of youth, family, and memory overwhelmed by ungrappled-with forces related to the WWII/Holocaust, his father's death as a solider fighting for France and his mother's death at Auschwitz when he was still very young.
Perec lost his parents to a horrific, elaborate system and spent his life bringing life to prose using joyful, elaborate systems.
This book, despite indirectly addressing his parents' deaths, wasn't up to the other stuff I've read by him.
Le texte est pétri de conditionnel et de "ou", qui marquent un doute profond dans l'histoire personnelle et fragmentaire de Perec.Le projet d'écriture:"Je ne retrouverai jamais dans mon ressassement même, que l’ultime reflet d’une parole absente à l’écriture, le scandale de leur silence et de mon silence : je n’écris pas pour dire que je ne dirai rien, je n’écris pas pour dire que je n’ai rien à dire.
Et le titre est d'une profondeur sublime: le "ou" n'est pas un choix entre W et le souvenir d'enfance, une alternative entre l'un ou l'autre, mais plutôt une équivalence.
La société W, misérable dans sa similitude avec la vie concentrationnaire, est le souvenir d'enfance de Perec.
Pour eux....« Je ne retrouverai jamais, dans mon ressassement même, que l’ultime reflet d’une parole absente et l’écriture, le scandale de leur silence et de mon silence : je n’écria spas pour dire que je ne dirai rien, je n’écris pas pour dire que je n’ai rien à dire… »W ou le souvenir d’enfance est un livre composé de fragments, des fragments de souvenirs perdus dans un passé trouble et palpable à la fois, où Perec s’approprie des actes dont il a été parfois le témoin, il erre dans un brouillard en se raccrochant à des objets concrets, des preuves tangibles comme des photos, avec des dates parfois inscrites au dos.
But wherever you turn your eyes, that's what you will see, you will not see anything else, and that is the only thing that will turn out to be true."
The link between the two strands I found slight, the link between the first and second halves of the second strand (ie: the Land-of-W part) non-existent, the whole thing half-baked though not a bad (if risky) idea in theory.
Maybe I’m too literal-minded, but I’ll take Borowski’s version any day: that is some kind of gutpunch.
I’ve only read one short Perec piece besides this one (a novella, Which Moped with Chrome-plated Handlebars at the Back of the Yard?, which I didn’t much like either), and some fragments of the User’s Manual, so chances are I haven’t cracked his emotional code yet.
The fussiness on display in what I’ve read so far suggests otherwise, but never say never.
Vzpomínková část, kdy si Perec snaží z fotek vzpomenout na dětství mě moc nebrala, ale chápu jak frustrující tohle vzpomínání musí být - já zažil něco podobnýho hodněkrát v neděli ráno, když jsem se vrátil z diskotéky v Blížkovicích a probudil se třeba nahej na schodech nebo s ukradenou kočkou v batohu.
Já jen doufám, že si to nikdy nepřečte náš tělocvikář ze základky, páč ten jistě nepochopí, že je to jen palalela a bude tohle valit na okresním přeboru.Za mě velmi výživná kniha, která mě kupodivu ze začátku moc nebrala, ale na konci jsem její šílenství musel ocenit.
Jen párkrat omylem ředidlo, když sem přišel pozdě do školy a musel za trest špachtlí a ředidlem škrabat žvejkačky z podlahy.
Rodiče byli z Polska a taťka to nedal na frontě a mamka bohužel tě pic a nehledej mě víc - nepřežila Auschwitz.Perec tak vzpomínky dává dohromady jen ze starých fotek a tato autobiografická dějová linka je průměrně čtivá.
S každou kapitolou se čtenář dozvídá, jak víc a víc mrdlá ta společnost je a že je celej ten jejich efektivní aparát soutěžení vlastně postavenej na hlavu a že to co vypadá jako čestná společnost je vlastně jen pošahaný peklo.
A strange book.
In fact one of those books which is so strange that you long to sit down with the author to understand exactly what was going through his mind when he decided to pair a story of his childhood with a gruesome account of sports mad dystopia.
Was he highlighting the horror of Nazi ideology?
Underlining the unreliability of memories by contrasting his recollections with a completely absurd story?
It is a testament to Perec that whatever path of strangeness he decided to frolic down it never strikes you as forced or over intellectualized rather I was left demanding more.
There is no line between fantasy and memory in the so-called autobiography, and it is this uncertainty of memory that completely discredits it.Perec claims the story of W, the italicized parts of the novel, is pure fiction—created only a 12-year-old boy’s musings, and not by memory—but by the end, it is clear that it is his young mind’s interpretation of the Holocaust.
The autobiographical portion may strive to be based off actual events, but unfortunately, the recollection of these events is unreliable, erroneous, and clouded with the uncertainty of being maybe true or maybe untrue.
On annonce sur le dos du livre : ‘Bien que les deux textes semblent rien avoir en commun, ils sont pourtant inextricablement enchevêtrés comme si aucun des deux ne pouvait exister seul.
Le deuxième problème est cette vision ne correspond en rien avec que les descriptions des camps concentrations que j’ai lues dans une dizaine d’autres livres.
Perec a bien gaspillé les belles pages qu’il a écrites sur sa propre vie en les mettant dans la même boite que sa parodie mal conçue de des camps de concentration.« W »est une œuvre très innovatrice qui manque royalement son coup.
Even if I have the help only of yellowing snapshots, a handful of eyewitness accounts and a few paltry documents to prop up my implausible memories, I have no alternative but to conjure up what for too many years I called the irrevocable: the things that were, the things that stopped, the things that were closed off – things that surely were and today are no longer, but things that also were so that I may still be.The chapters of Perec’s rediscovering his past alternate with a story based on a childhood fantasy of an island called W in the Tiera del Fuego devoted exclusively to sport and Olympian ideals.
To quote from the jacket blurb: “…W tells two parallel stories.
The autobiographical parts are quite good, however.
This should’ve been a straight memoir, but Perec had a lot of avant garde stuff he had to live up to (he wrote an entire novel, La Disparation, without using the letter “e,” a feat for which he won much applause).
But as a novel, this is a lopsided trifle.
Definitely one of the most devastating books about the Holocaust I've ever read.It sneaks up on you, though, so give it a chance.
All the banality that you think is trivial leads to an ending that sucker punches you on the jaw.
Lights out.The idea that sport is king on an imaginary island seems odd, but harmless.
The fact that he mirrors this so delicately with memories of his own childhood is so effective you have to read it twice to get his genius.
There is nothing I can compare it to that I've read.
Ce n'est pas le Perec que je préfère. Il m'aura sûrement manqué des bribes de la biographie de l'auteur pour tout assimiler. Dans le genre vagues souvenirs d'une enfance meurtrie pendant la guerre, mon cœur appartient à Modiano ! Reste que la description de la vie W (la lettre étant employée comme adjectif) vous en bouche un coin.
Ale nevzpomínám si, že bych přitom myslel na koncentrační tábory.
Vzpomínková část cajk, takovou ti ale vysolí dost lidí.
Část s ostrovem, kde jsou všichni posedlí sportovním kláním, přičemž je tomu uzpůsobeno vše na ostrově, to už je jiná.
Dikce odhalování toho, jaké je ovšem vše ve skutečnosti mi připomíná kousnutí do fazolového brownie - nejprve idealistické představa sladkého (atletické ideály a morálka, uspořádanost), pak divná chuť, kterou nečekáš (nahodilá pravidla, tresty za porážku, zpuchřelá společnost) a nakonec si vyšťouráš fazoli ze zubů (ne šokující, ale velmi obratný závěr, to si ale přečti osobitně), což fakt nechceš, ale už je příliš pozdě.
I read this when I was very young. Don't really remember it 4 stars is a pure guess

Other than (my boy forever) Italo Calvino, I'd never read any Oulipo writers before, and Perec was recommended to me. Oh man, two dovetailing narratives forming a cohesive and moving meditation on fascism, I dig this shit super-hard. Combining a fabulist perspective, a pointillistic, convincing memoir, and an overarching structurality, this is pretty remarkable in a lot of ways.
