https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32722510-the-zookeeper-s-wife
What a disappointment! I anxiously awaited the paperback version of this book, only to find the writing so scattered and choppy I could barely finish it. The author obviously did extensive and exhaustive research, but she kept going off on so many random tangents that finding a cohesive story is impossible.
one puzzle of daily life at the villa was this: How do you retain a spirit of affection and humor in a crazed, homicidal, unpredictable society? On September 1, 1939, Nazi Germany, emboldened by the recently-signed Molotov-Ribbentrop pact with Stalin’s Soviet Union, invaded Poland. Warsaw was pummeled, then occupied. With the Nazis’ bizarre fixation on racial purity (which extended to animals) and hatred for Jews, it became an existential crisis merely to be Jewish in the city. Amid the carnag
Through this ordeal over three hundred people were saved with the help of Antonina and others at the Warsaw Zoo and widespread popular support in the city.
Johan Heldenbergh as Jan Żabiński - from Focus FeaturesThe Zabinskis’ tale also gives us a look at details of how Warsaw coped with the occupation, finding ways into and out of the ghetto once it was shut in, the subterfuges they engaged in to get fake identification papers, how they got information on what was happening in the ghetto, finding sources for food for the animals remaining at the zoo.
I had planned to read it -- like other books --a dozen times.
Author Diane Ackerman has a long list of many other books she has written- but this is my first time reading her.
It reads like fiction --( wish it were) -- scary/terrifying/heartbreaking moments....sometimes funny........other times this story is unbelievably moving (precious tenderness the way Diane writes about animals).
Zookeepers Jan and his wife Antonina had been dedicated to a special zoo even before the War...
Through Diane's writing and the voice of the wife Antonina...
Jan and Antonina even gave birth to a child in the middle of this war.
Nor does it add much about the Jewish Holocaust and I simply do not know how Ackerman got the rights to the story, when so many other, better writers could have done justice to it.Based on the great reviews from some rather credible sources, I couldn't wait to read this book.
OK, so Polish experience of WW II is my issue, and perhaps I am nit picking, but I am not making boatloads of money off this book – and when I write my own books, my editors and I make darn sure that the facts are correct.The story of Jan and Antonina Zabinski, set during the German occupation of Poland, is a truly amazing one, in which these two courageous Warsawian zookeepers demonstrated courage, brilliance, resilience, and humanity in the face of the grossest barbarism this planet has seen.
Diane Ackerman, being a literary writer and not an historical one, was able to provide an interesting spin on the subject matter, and I loved all of the imagery and description of Antonina's relationship with the animals and general life at the zoo.
Ackerman goes off on too many completely unrelated tangents, which would be interesting if the book were longer, but it seems like she overlooked important pieces of the puzzle in favor of long descriptions of marginal players in the story.
Ackerman describes meeting with the son in Warsaw and touring the old house, but he seems disinterested in reminiscing about their time at the zoo, but doesn't speculate as to why.
Their story itself is very heroic, but the writing style detracts from what is supposed to be the point of the book.
The author is frequently sidetracked with long passages of history, details about the lives of people not relevant to the story, and lengthy descriptions of nature (I skipped a good two pages or so that just listed different types of beetles).
The timeline of the story bounces around too much, and by the end of the book, I still didn't feel a connection with the people involved.
The story of Jan and Antonina is a powerful one, but it was wasted on this book.
I don't understand all the fuss. If any creature is in danger, you save it, human or animal. Words to live by. Zookeepers Jan and Antonia Zabinski run (or used to run) the Warsaw Zoo. Shortly after Germany invaded Poland, the zoo is destroyed and most of the animals are put down. Yet, somehow the zoo remains open and ready for business - though that business may involve a slightly different purpose from the usual critter rescue.The Zabinski newest form of 'critters' are Jews and other sympathiz
Zookeepers Jan and Antonia Zabinski run (or used to run) the Warsaw Zoo. Shortly after Germany invaded Poland, the zoo is destroyed and most of the animals are put down.
Yet, somehow the zoo remains open and ready for business - though that business may involve a slightly different purpose from the usual critter rescue.The Zabinski newest form of 'critters' are Jews and other sympathizers.
They use their zoo as a hide-away, a halfway house and a weapons stash.
Diane Ackerman interspersed with the cruelties of war with the joyful happenings of the zoo - much to my relief.
It's certainly not a bad book, but I found its passages dealing with the horrors of Germany's occupation of Poland during World War II interspersed with sections recounting cute animal shenanigans a bit hard to take, even though Diane Ackerman's telling a true story.This may be less Ackerman's fault and more the fault of her source material.
She depends largely, it seems, on Antonina Zabinski's diary to recount the goings on at the Warsaw zoo during the war, and I get the sense that Zabinski focused more on the zoo's animals and her family's pets, as well as her son's doings, than she did on the larger issues of the war in her writings.
This nonfiction book tells the story of Antonina and Jan, who use his position as the zookeeper to allow the zoo to be used as a safe house for up to 300 Jews during the course of the Second World War. The sign of a good nonfiction for me is when it reads like fiction.
The book is a mess of too much information about unimportant issues and not enough about what was actually happening.
It's like the writer didn't know what she wanted the book to be.
A different writer or editor could have made for a much better book.
They quietly revolt against Hitler and the Germans, by hiding over 300 Jews in the run down animal cages, and tunnels they created on their property.The story is told in an order that doesn't make sense, and in little tiny snippets of thoughts that feel random and disjointed.
It is so distracting to read and constantly go back and forth between the main story of Jan and Antonina, and snippets, comments, and quotes from other random people throughout this time period.
It's so bad.
It's not well-written and it drags on with endless pages of absolutely useless descriptions of things that have no place in the story.
We never learn HOW they did these things.
It's written like a 300+ page high school research paper, and I really, REALLY struggled to get through it, even with the skimming I was able to do for the entire second half.
I made it through, and I'm sure the movie will be so much better, since they're definitely not afraid to get creative and imagine feasible conversations and situations that add to the story.
I have NEVER thought about the animals that were involved or the people who took care of the animals, such as zookeepers.
It never even crossed my mind and I thank this book for bringing this important part of the war to my attention.
I didn't care that the book was particularly well written and somewhat disjointed.
The story made me think of the animals in Hurricane Katrina or the recent fires in California, and how much animals contribute to our lives.
I plan on reading up on the animals' stories of war and expanding my view of everyone who was involved during the Holocaust.
And treated animals and humans with respect and as friends and valued lives, during a time of incredible upheaval.
Many of the refugees saved, worked with animals, and lived in their cages.
It was because of the ongoings of the zoo, that over 300 refugees went undetected, and food and activity was provided as a cover for an entire underground operation that saved thousands of lives.
It spoke of protecting animals and people, and how to value both kinds of lives and every species is unique and worth saving.
This book was sent to me by Focus Features, but all thoughts/opinions are my own!I haven't read nonfiction in QUITE A WHILE so I wasn't sure how I was going to fare - ended up loving it!
I loved it more so for the narrative and story and not as much for the writing, which could be a little choppy and add in details that didn't need to be there.
It is a disgusting blight on human history and I do not see how any *good* person could have helped things like that to happen.
This gives the book an interesting take on the Nazi occupation of Warsaw.The narrative centers around Antonia Zabinski and her husband Jan. Prior to the outbreak of war, they were the caretakers of the Warsaw Zoo - a large zoo befitting the capital of Poland.
The book paints a brief picture of what their life was like prior to the 1939 German invasion.
Jan was active in the resistance and was often away from the household - while he is integral to the story, he remains a figure outside the central focus of the book.
Even after Nazis dismantled their zoo and killed many of the larger animals, Jan and Antonina Żabiński stayed at their home and used the zoo’s premises for storing explosives and ammunition for Jan’s work in the Polish resistance as well as sheltering “Guests,” Jews passing through.
Their son Ryszard kept as pets a badger who bathed sitting back in the tub like a person and an arctic hare who stole cured meats like “a fat, furry thug.” Much of the book is based on Antonina’s journals, but I wish there had been more direct quotes from it and less in the way of reconstruction.
Let me preface by saying a) I love Diane Ackerman's previous works and b) I have a deep interest in holocaust history.
Ackerman usually tackles very broad, amorphous subjects like love, the five senses, etc.
I quickly became frustrated with how Ackerman would zoom in on some particulars but not on others (so much focus on the animals, so little on the everyday details of the refugees hidden around the zoo property, very little closure in terms of what happened to the zookeeper and his wife post-war).
Ackerman's style hasn't changed dramatically in this book...she's still an excellent writer.
There is no way that I can sit down and adequately review this book after reading it.
Diane Ackerman has skillfully and beautifully written this very complex story.
She is a naturalist, who has very well utilized her discipline to write this historical piece.
I have read many accounts of WW II, in articles and in books, but Ackerman was able to create charm, suspense and beauty with her writing.
It was compelling- each page contained some item of wonder.
The book was enjoyable until the completion of the very last page.
An interesting but poorly told story overall... the author went off tangents quite a few times and the story I thought I was going to get about these two brave people seemed to get lost in the shuffle most of the time.The writing at times was interesting for a period then would struggle to keep my interest, with me re-reading some parts because I forgot what I had read that quick.Not a horrible book but could have been done better, in my humble opinion. *Mom wants to see the movie but myself, may just wait till its on DVD.*
Naively, I imagined this was going to be an account of the efforts to save the animals in the Warsaw zoo during the war.
The zoo however was near anti-aircraft guns and thus an immediate target for the Germans when they invaded Poland.
Anyway, the animals that survive are soon carted off to a German zoo.
Soon they are using the zoo to hide people escaping from the ghetto.
I can imagine Anthony Doerr for example writing a fantastic novel set in a zoo during WW2!
As presented by the astute investigator and gifted writer Diane Ackerman, whose many books include 'A Natural History of the Senses', 'An Alchemy of Mind: The Marvel and Mystery of the Brain', 'The Moon by Whale Light - and Other Adventures Among Bats, Penguins', Crocodilians and Whales', 'A Natural History of Love', 'Deep Play', 'Cultivating Delight: A Natural History of My Garden', 'The Rarest of the Rare: Vanishing Animals, Timeless Worlds', and anthologies of poems such as 'I Praise My Destroyer: Poems' and 'Jaguar of Sweet Laughter: New and Selected Poems', this is a magical tale about a couple in Warsaw whose roles as zookeepers allowed their shared appreciation for animal life and ways of adapting to devise ingenious ways to protect many of the Jews from the Warsaw Ghetto from mass execution.Jan and Antonina Zabinski were Polish Christian keepers of the Zoo when the Germans under Hitler's scheme of world domination and purification of Europe for the chosen race of Aryans began.
I was disappointed in this book.
A great (and true) story of kindness, courage, and hope in the most horrific of times, The Zookeeper's Wife is the story of the family that ran the Warsaw Zoo during the time of the German occupation of Poland.
While the story is great, the problem with the book is with the storytelling.
Way too much research information is passed along (beetles??), too much digression from the story so that the author can explain something, and a style of writing that really takes time and effort to get used to.

And while other stories may tell of scared Polish people turning in Jewish neighbors, many of them leave out the thousands of Poles who hid, fed, transported, and risked their lives to help their Jewish friends and neighbors.
(Let's not forget that it was the Poles who set off the chain of events that brought down the Cold War.) While I didn't connect the Zabinskis and the people they saved as I would have liked (a fictionalized story to give substance to their lives and terror would have served the story better), I did with the Polish plight and I'm glad that there was enough details of the zookeeper's story to tell.My favorite quote:Dozens of statues and monuments grace Warsaw's streets, because Poland is a country half submerged in its heavily invaded past, fed by progress, but always partly mourning.
I really wanted to like this book. The Zabinskis saved over 300 people from the Nazis. It is an important story and should be told, but the story got lost in the zoological facts.At times, I felt like I was reading a research paper on animals that got mixed into a WWII story. It really didn't flow and I could not enjoy it.
I listened to the audio version, some of the time in a hammock, a mistake.
I found most of it rather dry.
Sometimes I felt like I was listening to the audio version of a Wild Kingdom show.
It seemed there was only spurts about the zookeeper's wife.
Last night I saw the movie, one of the rare instances I found the movie to be better than the book.
I wondered how they would even depict this book as a movie while listening, but was quite surprised.
I guess I needed the visual to really appreciate this work, and I do appreciate the author taking on this monumental task.
Set during WWII in Poland, Jan and Antonina are caretakers of a zoo that has been taken over by the Nazis.
Animals that were long-time residents of the zoo are either shot or sent to other zoos.
Not well written, the author interrupts her story of Jan and Antonina with other tidbits and facts of the time, making the story disjointed.
I was never drawn into the story or their lives.
Instead, it was a disappointment, relying mostly on the horrors of war and the killing of animals to convey the story rather than exploring the lives and feelings of the main characters.
by Andrea Renee CoxWhat an emotional story! I might have read a library copy, but I'll be adding one to my personal library at some point. At times it was a little difficult to follow. Once I found my rhythm with the author's writing style, I really enjoyed the narrative. Learning about the Warsaw Zoo and its inhabitants--humans and animals alike--during WWII was fascinating, and I was moved to tears on multiple occasions. Some content (particularly sexual content and a few expletives) is inappropriate for children; parental discretion advised.I was not compensated for my honest review.
Being a big animal lover, this was hard to read. It never ceases to amaze me how truly horrible Hitler and the Nazis were. A difficult but good true story.
Audiobook performed by Suzanne TorenWhen Germany invaded Poland, and the Nazis occupied Warsaw, they began the determined extermination of that country’s Jews.
But many Polish citizens helped to shelter their Jewish friends and neighbors.
This is the story one of family, and the wife and mother in particular: Antonina Zabinski, the zookeeper’s wife.
Jan Zabinski was the director of the Warsaw Zoo, and he and his family lived in a villa on the zoological garden grounds.
Ackerman did extensive research, including interviews with survivors, family members, and neighbors to chronicle, as accurately as possible, the events during the war years.
