https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/88071.The_Last_Colony
his love of people is on display as ever, and although his characters often lack depth and aren't particularly interesting, they are still warmly characterized and pleasant to be around.
sympathetic characters because Scalzi is a sympathetic sort of author.
but he also finally gets to openly slam the Colonial Union and their war-mongering, secretive, tunnel-visioned ways.
stupid fucking Colonial Union, they've been long overdue for a knock-out.as usual the writing is pleasant and also generic.
because Scalzi is more interested in the human condition than anything else, his aliens often act just like humans.
I love myself some xenobiology, but I feel the author has taken what should be a selling point to the series and glazed over it with ambiguity.At least Last Colony saw the return of my fav, John Perry, and an interesting convergence of storylines from the first two books.
The humor came back in force and played a huge factor in my overall enjoyment.At the end of the day, while I've concluded there are some weaknesses to this series, all the strengths add up to give me an easy sci-fi, perfect for a light reading mood.
What’s the worst that could happen?The third installment of this series finds John Perry and his wife Jane retired from the Colonial Defense Force and living quietly on a colonized planet with their daughter.
John and Jane agree to head up the new colony, but they quickly learn that the CDF hasn’t told them everything and that the Roanoke colony is a pawn in the conflict between the CDF and other alien races.Like Old Man’s War or The Ghost Brigades, The Last Colony is a fun and fast mix of space combat and politics.
After retiring from the Colonial Defense Force, John Perry and Jane Sagan started a new life on the Human colony Huckleberry.
There is more to this arrangement than they were told and the family finds itself once again forced to fight to survive.John Scalzi shows another part of his universe with The Last Colony.
The Last Colony shows what life is like as a colonist and it's dangerous and boring.
A whole lot of farming is involved which made the beginning drag quite a bit.John Perry, Jane Sagan, and the colonists got thoroughly screwed in this book.
Nowadays they are chillaxing on a colony basking in their boring new roles, living a quiet life with their adopted daughter Zoe.But their lives change when a CDF general invites / demands / requires them to lead a party of new colonists on a brand new planetary colony that reminded me of Robert A.
Heinlein’s 1955 Scribner’s juvenile novel Tunnel in the Sky.John, Jane, Zoe and the other colonists are caught up in political intrigue and high level skullduggery and they’ve got to figure things out to save mankind and sort out the Colonial Union and the alien Conclave.
With some help from Hickory and Dickory the Obin guardians of Zoe.Good fun for Scalzi fans.
“It is an interesting thing to be both critical and expendable to humanity’s effort to populate the stars.”Woodrow Wilson's wet dream goes interstellar!“The Last Colony” is so far the weakest in the Old Men's War series.
The main characters are our old friends, John Perry and Jane Sagan.
I would.While it is nice to see John Perry (his POV is very distinct and I love his high sarcasm - the scene with Chengelpet brothers and their goat was just priceless), the overall plot is of lower density and so the book read slower (at least for me).
If you ignore the absurd geopolitical background, you might enjoy reading about the ‘borderland settlement’ tale and the problems of a small community.
Can Perry and his family save Roanoke without being traitors to the Colonial Union?Wow. I loved this book almost as much as I loved the first in the series, Old Man's War. John Perry is back and in fine form.
Still, it's almost as serious as the previous book.One of the things that I loved the most about the Last Colony was that Scalzi wasn't afraid to shake things up.
While it would have made a grand ending for the saga, I'm glad Scalzi still has stories left to tell in this universe.I can't recommend The Last Colony, or the previous two books, Old Man's War, and The Ghost Brigades, enough.
There's an easy brilliance to the OMW series that I think shines at its best in Last Colony.
At any moment you may feel like you're reading a light novel with snappy dialog and a straightforward plot.
The phrase 'beach reading' May even flit through your mind.
You'll realize that these characters are green super soldiers, alien generals with eye stalks and emotionless guardians of a teenage girl.
And that's when you realize that Scalzi is a devilish little genius with a clever plan behind his smile.
I enjoyed this much more than I was expecting, and totally loved these women: Jane Sagan and Savitri Guntupillai.
I wanted to spend so much more time with these three people.It's nice to see that some of the revelations in book 2 are followed up here, (view spoiler)[namely, that Charles Boutin wasn't just a crazy, evil genius, and the CU really are fairly unethical (hide spoiler)].
I liked the end of the book, too, in that there is an interesting choice laid out to humans by John Perry's actions.
Also, I also kind of liked John here, though I definitely preferred every second Jane and Savitri were on page.
Third volume in the Old Man's War seriesThis one felt rather different to the previous two - much lighter in a way although the stakes are still pretty high - but as enjoyable to read.The narration is back from the point of view of John Perry, who is living a peaceful life on a colony with Jane Sagan and Zoe, after the explosive events of The Ghost Brigades.
Naturally, the fates want more from our characters and they are once more pushed into the centre of the action, namely, be the administrators of a new special colony, Roanoke, with heavy political symbolism.
Another section is told from the perspective a female assault trooper with the Colonial Defense Force engaged in quelling rebellions seeking independence from the Union.
At a higher level, we get the perspectives of a Colonial Union State Department spy and of an alien which is second in command of the Conclave.
This conforms to a long tradition in space opera, where space is just a playground for human drama (some of the best, like the works of Bujold and David Weber dispense with aliens altogether).
I think Scalzi's a fun author to read, one you can always go back to knowing you'll have an entertaining read.
Thus, authors like John Scalzi make for the perfect break in your intellectual readings.The Last Colony is the final Old Man's War universe novel with John Perry and Jane Sagan.
I haven't read Zoe's Tale, but I assume it's predominately her (I'm good at making inferences from my reading aren't I?), at least I know it's her perspective of the events in The Last Colony.
This was a great conclusion to John and Jane's story although the surprises in the first book, Old Man's War, just can't be beat for me.
Overall this was a fantastic read and a lot of fun.
I think if everyone had really acted like I would assume leaders of large political groups would act, then the story couldn't have played out the way it did.So, techically I would deduct a half-star for this, so it is a 4.5 star read for me, which I'm still rounding up to 5, cause the book is just a lot of fun.
treća knjiga, trećapriča, i opet prilično različita. mrvicu slabija od druge. i mada na kraju knjige najavljuje oproštaj od storylinea, vidim da se nije baš oprostio :)
Während ich vom ersten Band begeistert war (5 Sterne) und den zweiten Band zumindest gemocht habe (4 Sterne), hat dieser 3.
In Zeiten, in denen auf dem Planet Erde gerade Frau Merkel und Herr Seehofer die Republik mit dergleichen unterhalten, wirkt die Handlung des Sci-Fi wie ein müder Abklatsch der Realität.
Im Grunde handelt es sich in der ersten Hälfte um einen Wild West-Roman mit einer Menge anstrengender Siedler, die in ein neues Land (hier Planet) ziehen, begleitet von Sheriff Perry mit Familie.
Ich möchte den guten Anfang der Reihe nicht weiter herunterziehen und werde daher jetzt aus der Old Man's War-Reihe aussteigen.
This is a good book, but nowhere near as good as the first (best) or second (very good).Let's start with the 'me like' stuff: John has a nice, easygoing writing style, so even if there isn't too much happening in the book, it's still quite all right.
And again, we have more conversations between John and different generals, quick dead-pan delivery sentences that sound like arguing but in fact are manifests of self-righteousness, more 'no offense none taken' moments, and the identical personality repetition for each and every character.In a way, it feels like what's happening with Joe Abercrombie - when you milk it too much you lose passion for your own work.
2012 JanuaryAt the end of the book Scalzi says he isn't going to write any more about these characters. So even though I'm midway in Zoe's Tale, I'm having a sad. It's smart science fiction, interesting characters, intriguing problems with colonization, and Sagan and Perry are so good at working things through. I would happily read many more stories about them. Great scifi, and, for those of us who enjoy twists, plenty of them. Really, Old Man's War is an unusually strong series. There must be flaws, but I can't find any.Personal copy1 September 2014
Book started off slowly.Initially It's mostly about misadventures of cutoff colony but somewhere around half of the book there is a point where "shit gets real" and book reverts to that fast paced space opera we all know and love.First half: 3 stars.Slow but necessary.Second half: 5 stars.Best part of the series, when things got going I couldn't put it down.
اگه میتونستم بیشتر از 5 ستاره بدم، صددرصد میدادم.شاید بهترین چیزی که من میتونم برای احساسم در مورد "آخرین مستعمره" بگم، حس استار وارزیه:دی با این تفاوت که "آخرین مستعمره" از کل فیلم های استاروارز داستان قوی تری داشت و به نظرم یکی از قوی ترین کتاب های علمی تخیلی بود که خوندم.تا اینجای مجموعه جنگ پیرمرد، هر جلد تفاوت های جالبی نسبت به جلد قبل داشته.
همین طور پایان کتاب به نظرم خیلی جالب تر از جلدهای قبلی بود، پایانی بود که انتظارش رو نداشتم.در کل، به نظرم "آخرین مستعمره" بهترین کتاب علمی تخیلی بود که توی یکسال اخیر خوندم و از خوندنش برام حس واقعا عالی داشت.حتما بخونین:دی
Wowzers.
Just....plain....wowzers.This was such a perfect end to the trilogy.
We go back to the first-person narrative of Major John Perry, formerly a reborn-supersoldier, now a husband and father and space-colonist.Plenty of good kill-all-da-alienz stuff, but also a lot of good making-your-way-in-the-world-today-takes-everything-you-got stuff too.
Oh, and some DOWN-WITH-THE-MAN stuff.
Can't forget that.Goodreads tells me there are more books in the series.
I find that odd, because it felt like I got a perfectly delicious amount of closure from this one.
Regardless, I'll most likely check 'em out in the future, once I've let this wonderful set of three novels settle in my mind-belly.
خیانت، توطئه و جنگ، یادگار سال ها استعمار کهکشانی بشر و نژاد های هوشمند دیگر هست، اما برای زنده موندن از این مجادله، وقتی تمام آمار و ارقام و پیشبینی ها، حتی تصمیم سیاستمدارها به کشته شدن و فدا شدن به احتمال باقی ماندن نژاد بشر هست، چطور باید معادله ها رو بهم زد، چطور باید در عصر پیشرفت تکنولوژی برای بقا به قرن بیستم بازگشت و در نهایت با تمام سختی های ایجاد آخرین مستعمره انسانی و مبارزه با اکوسیستم این سیاره ی نامشخص، برای زنده موندن مبارزه کرد...//
خیانت، توطئه و جنگ، یادگار سال ها استعمار کهکشانی بشر و نژاد های هوشمند دیگر هست، اما برای زنده موندن از این مجادله، وقتی تمام آمار و ارقام و پیش‌بینی ها، حتی تصمیم سیاستمدارها به کشته شدن و فدا شدن به احتمال باقی ماندن نژاد بشر هست، چطور باید معادله ها رو بهم زد، چطور باید در عصر پیشرفت تکنولوژی برای بقا به قرن بیستم بازگشت و در نهایت با تمام سختی های ایجاد آخرین مستعمره انسانی و مبارزه با اکوسیستم این سیاره ی نامشخص، برای زنده موندن مبارزه کرد...//
They are fun and easy to read, but they are also full of big ideas.“The Last Colony” features John Perry and Jane Sagan from “Old Man’s War” and their adopted daughter, Zoë, who was introduced briefly in “The Ghost Brigades”.
While all of Scalzi’s books are fine to read as stand-alone novels, one should probably at least read “Old Man’s War”, if not “The Ghost Brigades” before diving into “The Last Colony”.
The ending is the biggest twist of all, but it fits logically with the rest of the story.I have to say that, unlike its predecessors, “The Last Colony” left me wanting more.
I kept wanting to read more about Jane Sagan (a Special Forces soldier from the first and second books whom John married between books two and three), Zoë Boutin (John and Jane's adopted daughter, who appeared as a child in book two and is now a teenager), Savitri (a new character in this book, who works as John and Jane's assistant), and Hickory and Dickory (two Obin beings who hang around to keep an eye on Zoë, for reasons explained in book two).
I really enjoyed Old Man’s War, as it had the perfect blend of a sympathetic and wise-cracking main character, intriguing concept (recruiting 75 year olds with the promise of powerful new military bodies to fight aliens threatening humanity), basic training with the new bodies, first combat, and an exciting finale.However, with each successive book I’m learning just how weak Scalzi’s descriptive powers are, and while he certainly has a breezy narrative style and refreshing sense of humor, it is starting to wear thin on me since the stories lack the fresh ideas and precise pacing of the initial book.
I think the parts where it should spend more time on got shortened like the going ons in other planets during the war with the Conclave etc, and vice versa.
The Colonial Union in this book was so frustratingly stupid and it annoyed me that the MCs, smart as they were, did not think of that possibility and try to, as they did very often, argue against it and try to find another way.Last but not least, the level of deus ex machinas here are way too many.
2.5*Some spoilers in here, read at your own peril.The good:John Perry - I loved his voice, his humour, the way he has with the people around him.Colonizing new planet - the adventures and difficulties that came with uncharted territory.The ending - Scalzi seems to deliver happy optimistic endings every time and I love it.The bad:Too much politicsCU acting like complete morons.
I still love Scalzi's humour and how humane and likeable his characters are but his villains seem to be unconvincing and plot a bit predictable with the formula - everything goes horribly wrong and the mc gets to save the world.
Povratak dide Perryja u akciju - je da ga vratiše u "obično" tijelo kao i gospođu no ne može imati mira mada se mislio skrasiti u miru nakon obavljene vojne službe.Perry mu je očito omiljeni lik - čim ga je vratio Scalzi je opet uključio britki humor i živahne dijaloge.Dosta bolji dojam od #2 - jaka četvorka i preporuka odlične zabave
And for better or for worse (for the reasons I'll be detailing today), Scalzi and The Last Colony fit firmly on the genre side of things, a book worth checking out but only if you already own the LBCSASFTS collector lunchbox.In fact, this is always an interesting thing to start with regarding Scalzi, that his entire career sorta came about in a fanboy-wet-dream style: for many years simply an unpaid blogger like everyone else (albeit one trained at the prestigious University of Chicago, whose faculty advisor was briefly Saul Bellow), Scalzi basically self-published his first novel Old Man's War electronically online for free, at which point it just happened to get noticed by Tor Senior Editor Patrick Freaking Nielsen Freaking Hayden.
I was hesitant about John Scalzi's take on the subject with the story of Old Man War protagonist John Perry taking up the role of a colony head in a book series primarily about the evils of colonization.
The premise is John Perry, his wife Jane, and his adopted daughter Zoe have been offered the position of overseers for a new colony called Roanoke.
There's some interesting plotlines like the fact there's a sapient species on the planet other than humanity but they disappear midpoint through the book, never getting referenced again.
I also note Zoe alludes to an assassination attempt on General Gau which is off-camera despite its importance to the plot.
John Scalzi continues in his Old Man’s War series with The Last Colony.
Our main characters are John Perry (ex Colonial Defense Forces soldier) , Jane Sagan (ex Colonial Defense Soldier) and their adopted daughter Zoe (whose real Dad tried to kill humanity).John and Jane have been chosen to lead 2500 citizens to form a colony on the planet Roanoke.
Multiple story arcs collide and meet at opportune times, and the whole story is compelling and enjoyable to the reader,HIGHLY Recommended along with the other books i the series: Old Man’s War; The Ghost Brigades; The Android’s Dreams; and Zoes Tale.
