https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27265905-murder-for-christmas
Murder for Christmas by Francis Duncan is a 2015 Vintage Digital publication.
(Originally published in 1949) A ‘Dickensian’ Christmas tradition gone horribly awry.This story is billed as a classic Christmas mystery, but in all honesty, I’d never heard of Francis Duncan or this book until about a month ago.
I was intrigued, especially since I have no problem finding holiday romances, but struggle to find a Christmas mystery that isn’t a part of a very long running series.
Sure enough, by Christmas morning a murder has taken place and Tremaine is commissioned by local law enforcement to help them solve the crime.
NO one could have foretold how it was going to end.Not even the murderer.Well, that's not quite true...
I had the murderer picked out @41% and even had a hunch about the motive ...
because the setup of this story reminded me of a Graham Greene story.The downside of all this was that the following 59% of the book were pure tedium.It is a shame because the Preview of the book, where we get a snap shot of the discovery of the victim before the story has even been set up, made for fun reading.
Book review to come and see for other reviews and posts my blog (bio)-----------------------------------------------------------------------------What a fun classic murder mystery to read around this time. I felt quite cozy and easy to read. The amount of characters felt overwhelming in the beginning, but I managed to distinguish and seperate them well. Overall a nice relaxing read for the December month.
However, it is with some delight that I can report that I really rather enjoyed this Christie-esque mystery with its oddball cast of characters, and a rather intriguing amateur detective, Mordecai Tremaine…Mordecai Tremaine, former tobacconist and perennial lover of romance novels, has been invited to spend Christmas in the sleepy village of Sherbroome at the country retreat of one Benedict Grame.
As the snow intensifies and everyone a possible suspect, it’s up to amateur sleuth Tremaine to sniff out the culprit, and an intriguing investigation ensues.With typical Golden Age panache, Duncan immerses us in a mystery of everyday grasping rich folk, with a finite group of suspects in an atmosphere of entitlement.
I normally fall in love with the quintessential British murder mystery landscape.
You would even think I'd love this one more so since it takes place at Christmas!
Yet, despite a few Agatha Christie references, this one fell flat.
I just couldn't get into the story and it felt like a rehearsed play devoid of depth.
The characters were somewhat interesting, yet flat.
And the threads of the plot were so loosely unfolded that when it wound together for the ending, it just seemed like a rushed hodge podge towards the finish line.
Having enjoyed, “Murder for Motive,” I was interested to read the second mystery featuring Mordecai Tremaine.
Mordecai Tremaine has been invited to spend Christmas at the country house of Benedict Grame.
He is surprised at the invitation, as, although he met Grame, and his companion and secretary, Nicholas Blaise, he does not know them well.
However, he is intrigued by a postscript to the invitation, by the secretary, asking for his help and he decides to go.
Christmas Eve brings snow, and a collection of guests, including a politician and a scientist.
It's set at a house party, with a motley selection of guests, including Duncan's series detective, mild-mannered tobacconist Mordecai Tremaine, who has a secret passion for romantic literature.
Inevitably, Tremaine finds himself having to investigate a murder and unravelling the secrets of his fellow-guests.
I'm hoping that the whole series of Tremaine books will now be reprinted.
This time round I listened to it on audio book and I think perhaps it isn't strong enough to hold my attention in that format.
Well, that was a satisfying and twisty motive - well done!
At first, I wasn’t really drawn in, because several of the Christmas house party guests seemed edgy and unhappy to be present, which confused me; also, there wasn’t much dry, British humor, which I have come to expect from reading Golden Age favorites like Margery Allingham, Agatha Christie and Georgette Heyer (I’ll be reading Envious Casca next - another house party murder mystery).
Kudos to Duncan, gobsmacked me in a very satisfying conclusion.
Very clever mystery with an absolutely charming amateur detective.Mordecai Tremaine is 60+ yr old bachelor with a fondness for solving mysteries.
I loved him.The author has a fine style and a nice touch with the characters, all of whom were deftly presented.
This is a classic 'murder during a house party' story, with our suspects being those staying at the house.
Lots of twists and turns made for an engrossing read.I am so happy that this book has been rescued from obscurity and that we will soon be treated to more stories featuring the lovely Mr Tremaine.
If a Father Christmas is murdered, is it the man intended?
and murderWhen Mordecai Tremaine arrives at the country retreat of one Benedict Grame on Christmas Eve, he discovers that the revelries are in full swing in the sleepy village of Sherbroome--but so too are tensions amongst the assortment of guests.When midnight strikes, the partygoers discover that presents aren't the only things nestled under the tree...there's a dead body too.
A dead body that bears a striking resemblance to Father Christmas.
With the snow falling and suspicions flying, it's up to Mordecai to sniff out the culprit--and prevent anyone else from getting murder for Christmas.'

That was an entertaining classic murder mystery and it was exactly what I expected it to be.
I wasn't expecting something extraordinary but rather a nice little guessing game.
I got this thanks to the likable Mordecai Tremaine, who is an elderly hobby detective and a very good observer.
Of cause there is a murder and of cause our detective starts to investigate by observing his surroundings and by talking with everybody around him.
So I had a lot of fun being a detective myself and trying to guess the murderer and his or her motives.
Both feature an ill-assorted crew of cranky people who don't want to celebrate the holidays together, with mutual animus that leads to a murder.In this effort, amateur sleuth Mordecai Tremaine is invited to spend Christmas in the home of a man he's barely met; the host's private secretary has added a personal message to the letter of invitation, hinting at mystery and danger, which intrigues Tremaine enough that he agrees to attend.
I guessed some elements of the mystery (the likely killer and (view spoiler)[the intended victim (hide spoiler)]), but the red herrings seemed arbitrary and the method of killing preposterous.
Amateur detective Mordecai Tremaine has been invited to spend the Christmas holidays at the home of Benedict Grame.
Along with his invitation, he had received a note from Grame’s secretary, Nicholas Blaise, who is worried that something may be wrong with Grame.
A body in a Santa suit is found under the tree and the gifts as well as a valuable necklace have gone missing.Murder for Christmas in an intelligent cozy mystery full of twists and turns and with interesting characters and setting.
For anyone who enjoys Golden Age or Christmas cozies, Murder for Christmas is a fun read.Thanks to Netgalley and Sourcebooks for the opportunity to read this book in exchange for an honest review
A delightful cozy mystery.Francis Duncan is a hidden gem and I’m so happy his work has been dusted off with some new life breathed into it.
Gentle, sentimental Mordecai Tremaine is not your average detective, but a retired businessman with a nose for crime. He's been invited by an acquaintance to spend a good, old-fashioned Christmas at his country estate, but the other guests seem fidgety and uneasy--and that's before Father Christmas is found murdered beneath the richly-ornamented Christmas tree. Originally published in 1949, this is not a fast-moving novel by any means, but it has its charms.
I wanted to like this book so much, but I really didn't. I felt the author did not do enough to establish the necessary mood of suspicion and fear. Too many characters, none well defined, so I didn't care about any of them. I just didn't enjoy it.
(Duncan’s work was recently reissued, revived, and thank the Good Lord for that, because it’s glorious.) And yet, Murder For Christmas contains a vein of commentary about Miss Bates’s most beloved and oft-read genre in the voice of Duncan’s romance-reading, old-bachelor, amateur sleuth, Mordecai Tremaine, an engaging, loveable, and despite his appearance seventy years ago (with Duncan’s first Tremaine mystery, Murder Has A Motive) fresh-feeling main character.
This has the feel of Agatha Christie - Miss Marple - and we love her.
Mordecai Tremaine A classic mystery, set in Sherbroome House at Christmas time.
A home owned by Benedict Grame, a house full of festive cheer, guests all around a Christmas tree.
Nicholas Blaise, Grame's secretary fears something is a miss and has invited Mordecai Tremaine to spend the festive season with them.
Very Hercule Poirot Like all good mysteries there are clues, including foot prints at the scene, some are red herrings others lead us to the murder.
2016 Christmas book Reading binge -- Amid the mulled wine, mince pies, stern butler and new fallen snow, amateur detective and lover of romance novels Mortecai Tremaine finds a cluster of oddly tense city folks gathered at Benedict Grame's annual Manor house Christmas party near the in the small country village.
Fun, but at times a tad confusing -- with the number of party guests, staff members, authorities and neighboring villagers.
And, after all, Duncan ALWAYS refers to our sleuth by his full name....Mortecai Tremaine.
While Murder for Christmas by Francis Duncan was first published in 1949, it has all the elements of the cozy mysteries published during the Golden Age of Crime. The story taks place at the large Sherbroome house recently purchased by Benedict Grame, who delights in throwing large, old-fashioned Christmas parties complete with an appearance by Father Christmas. Sounds like the perfect holiday, but tensions are unexplainably running high. Mordecai Tremaine is invited to join the festive gathering for the first time. When the festivities turn to murder, the amateur sleuth will have his hands full uncovering the truth.
Okay, but not up to Christie standards.
thoroughly enjoyable. Mordecai Tremayne is not your usual British sleuth.
Good mystery, but a little wordy.
What a delightful, old-school mystery with an amateur sleuth who is more likeable than Hercule Poirot, but just as insightful and observant.
Murder for Christmas is a quintessential old-fashioned English murder mystery, set during the holidays, complete with an old manor, shifty figures, secrets, and all the holiday trimmings.
The story itself has a slow and delicious pace, perfect for reading while snuggling up with a blanket and a hot cup of tea.
As the story went on, I started to see parts of what was going on, but it was still fun to read to the end and see how everything ties together.
It's my first introduction to amateur detective Mordecai Tremaine, and I look forward to reading more from the series.
Most of the guests have been there many times before.
The host, Benedict Grame, is known for his love of the holiday but also for eccentric behavior, as are the recurring guests.We meet a young woman, a sort of ward of the estate, who seems prepared to get married but who can not get the approval of her guardian.
Is that a clue or a red herring?
There are red herrings aplenty, all skillfully placed.This wonderul holiday read will appeal to lovers of British mysteries, especially those set in a more genteel time and place.
Classic mystery lovers will delight in revisiting this version.
Originally published in 1949, this is a classic golden age English country house murder.
All the boxes are checked off: country house (✓), isolated by nature/weather/etc (✓), eccentric group of characters gathered together (✓), add one amateur sleuth to the mix, then add murder and stir well (✓).
There was also a mystery about the original author of the book itself, which is detailed here.I enjoyed the slightly innocuous sleuth, Mordecai Tremaine, he has a romantic gentle soul.
I will absolutely be checking out any future offerings from this publisher and author, who apparently wrote at least 20 books, several of which feature amateur sleuth Tremaine.
Yet, as festive as it may seem there is tension between the guests and the host.Benedict loves to set a mood of an older time for his guests, including dressing up as Father Christmas and placing gifts on the tree.
With the snow falling and suspicions flying, it's up to Mordecai to find the killer and prevent a murderer from getting away.--Series: Mordecai Tremaine Mystery Book 1Author: Francis DuncanGenre: Cozy MysteryPublisher: Vintage BooksFrancis Duncan was the pseudonym for William Underhill, who was born in 1918 and died in 1988.
Murder for Christmas was the first book in his Mordecai Tremaine Mystery Series.Mr. Underhill was a prolific writer of murder mysteries and was of the same caliber as Agatha Christie.
Mordecai Tremaine has been invited to Benedict Grame's country estate for Christmas, along with a variety of other guests.
His host dresses up as Father Christmas each year on Christmas Eve to deliver envelopes for each of the guests to the Christmas tree.
However, this year, Father Christmas has been found dead under the tree, and the gifts are nowhere to be found.
Fortunately, Mordecai Tremaine is an amateur detective who has a talent for solving murders.Murder for Christmas is a fantastic Golden Age mystery - country house and amateur detective included.
The author has a comfortable style, and it was an easy and fun read.
