https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/835202.A_Chair_for_My_Mother
The fire, the loss Rosa's family has experienced notwithstanding, the text, the narrative of A Chair for My Mother, while definitely showing the destruction the conflagration has caused and presenting Rosa's family as being among the so-called working poor, is primarily optimistic and features mostly positives, such as family togetherness, community, how after the fire, Rosa's family and neighbours (many of whom are likely as economically strapped as Rosa's mother) rally to provide moral, emotional support and necessary furniture (Rosa, her mother and grandmother move in with family until they are able to relocate to a downstairs apartment, with neighbours and family donating beds, tables, chairs and curtains, along with necessary kitchen utensils).
I LOVE this book!I also love this book because it flies in the face of the ever present argument that we force the "beginning, middle, end" and "first, next, then, finally" format on students."HA!
I want to say when i read this book.
I want to say it to everyone everywhere.
Throw your stupid graphic organizers away and quite talking to me about your GD "transitional words"This book starts in the present, moves to the past and ends in a present that has moved forward without being explicitly narrated.
I LOVE this book.I really, really, really love this book.
Author Vera B.
Williams does a wonderful job telling the tale of a young girl and her mother and their dedication to restoring their lives back to normal following a fire that burned all their possessions in their home.
The idea of having your home and catch on fire and losing all your possessions is a fear that many of us have.
This common fear and questioning make this book a perfect example of contemporary realistic fiction.
"A Chair for My Mother" teaches readers lessons in hard work, empathy and appreciation throughout the story.
But in many ways it's a bit too realistic for my taste, and I would prefer to spare my son having to worry about lacking money for basics, his parents being too tired from work to interact or play with him, or having his house burn down, until he's a little bigger, say 7-8 years old.
Actually, I would rather not he have concerns about money at all, until he's quite a bit older (and I say this as someone growing up as the oldest sibling in a single parent household)!
The story touches on themes such as family life, saving, hard work, and hardship to an extent.
The story is told from the perspective of a little girl who lives with her mother.
The story begins with the daughter telling how she and her mother are saving money for a new chair.
Throughout the story, you learn the reason why they are saving money for a new chair.
Finally they have enough money to buy their big comfy chair for their new apartment.
I liked how the story includes three generations of women, their close bond, and hard work.
This is a fantastic story.
It's a heartwarming story with a lot of depth for a children's book.
Our girls enjoyed this story and I loved it.This book was selected as one of the books for the May 2016- Caldecott Honors discussion at the Picture-Book Club in the Children's Books Group here at Goodreads.This book was also selected as one of the books for the May 2018 - Boston Globe-Horn Book Picture Book Award Winners 1983-1990 discussion at the Picture-Book Club in the Children's Books Group here at Goodreads.
•This story is about a tragedy and how the family is coping with the aftermath.
It is about saving for something special and the importance of friends and family.
•Many children don’t have everything they need.
I like how this story gives an example of one little girl but focuses on the important things in her life.•This can be used with children to start a discussion of the important things in their lives and how it is important to do things for others.Read aloud for 1st through 3rd.
Used to lead to a deeper discussion with both younger and older students.
This is another one of my favorites. For years I dreamed of saving a great big jar of coins. Only now am I actually doing it (with the Staffer of course). Anyway, there's a little girl, and there's a fire, and she lives with her mom and grandma, and her mom is so tired after work and has to sit in a kitchen chair to rest, so they save up all their coins and...
The family is able to save and finally have “A Chair for My Mother” at the end of the story.
Elementary students of all ages can enjoy and learn from the many social justice themes such as hard work, community compassion, family strength, saving, perseverance, and overcoming hardship.
I used this book in my own classroom to spark discussion about community involvement and responsibility.
Students wanted to share how they had either helped a family in the past or brainstormed ways they would like to help others in their community.
Some students explained how they were thankful for their homes like the family was for their new apartment.
There are so many things to love about this classic: the portrayal of a house fire and its aftermath and the way neighbors ought to help each other; a family that experiences routine financial tightness; a multigenerational family living together...the list goes on. The story being told from the point-of-view of a child is still compelling and rich, and the payoff at the end is sweet and satisfying. It's a classic for a reason.
My daughter received this book for Christmas and we read it aloud together. A lovely story about hardship, tragedy, yet about love, hard work, savings, with an eventual happy ending. We both enjoyed this one.
Text-to Teaching ConnectionA Chair For Your Mother by Vera Williams is a great book to teach 3rd-grade Cause and Effect and to discuss need verse wants. It can also utilize as a guided reading book or a read aloud. You can also integrate Math lessons, where students each get a jar with some coins. Students will then sorts the coins by value. Students will then given a worksheet to show how many ways can you make $1.00 from the coins they have. Then students will be asked to total up all the coins in the jar.
I like this book because we can teach young children how to care about their mother. This book is telling about Rosa ,her mother and grandmother save money for buying a comfortable chair after their house burned in a fire. I think children will say things like this my mommy will lay on our comfortable chair after she finished her job.i would ask children question like this do you love your mother,how you make your mother feel happy.
This is such a beautiful story! This has so many different topics like family, hardships,hardwork, love and generosity. This family faced a tragedy as they lost their belongings in a fire. Rosa, her mother and grandmother save a their loose change to purchase a comfy chair they can all use. They are so dedicated in restoring their lives after such a tragic event.
While this is a simple tale of love between family and community it has some very important themes for young children to understand and grasp.
I also believe this is a wonderful book that I would read to my students at the beginning of the school year, as some of the themes such as Responsibility, Culture, and Community are important when working together throughout the school year.
Although this book is short and sweet and relatively easy for children to grasp it's themes and content can provide rich, creative learning experiences and conversations for students that can stretch beyond the classroom.
Then they all went chair shopping and found the perfect chair, and now after all the hard work the mother can finally come home and relax after work.2) Age Level: 4-8 years old Grade level: Kindergarten-3rd grade3) Appropriate classroom use of this book could be used in a math lesson about money, or during a reading lesson4) Individual students who might benefit from this book might be a student who has gone through a fire before and knows what that is like, or someone that collects money in a jar or piggy bank just like they do in the book.5) Small group use of this book could be used as a math lesson and counting our own coins in a jar and grouping them together to see how many coins we have and what they add up to.6) Whole class use of this book could be used to teach the students that you have to work for what you have, and that hard work pays off in the end.
She begins by informing the reader how hard her mother and her work to save money, and grandma often chips in.
After the narrator finishes telling the story of how their house burned down, she reveals that they finally saved enough money to buy a big comfy chair.
I was shocked to find that the author begin to tell the story from the place at which the characters were currently at in their lives and then went back to tell us how they arrived to that point.
The pictures in this book are a good representation of what is taking place, and clearly depict the character and the story line.
After a fire destroys all of their furniture and belongings, the neighbors all help out by donating or buying things for their new apartment.
Rosa, her mother and grandmother start saving up their money to buy a nice comfortable chair for everyone to sit in and relax.
I felt that their family had such a hard working attitude toward their jobs and toward saving money.
I liked the way the family reacted to the hardship and how uplifting it was to see all of their neighbors helping them out.
This book shows the hardships of life and how one family reacted to it.
Although neighbors and friends were donating things for them the family decided to come together and save to buy themselves a big comfortable chair.
I would read this book to children starting as early as preschool.
The Author/illustrator made the pictures very realistic and colorful for the story of A Chair for My Mother.I can relate to this story myself because my home caught fire and I lost half of everything I owned also.
Vera B.Williams created great appealing books for children.This book reminded me of myself when my house caught fire in 2010.
Williams set the tone of love and comfort in this descriptive children's book about a mother and daughter who experience the loss of matericalistic things.
What I especially enjoyed about this story was how the little girl remebered what mattered most; the loving kind gestures of people near giving them what they had lost in the fire.
This kind young soul helped her mother and grandmother fill a glass jar with tips from work and eventually saved up enough money and bought an upholstered, cozy and snug chair where they both found comfort together again.
A Chair for My Mother is for kindergarten-third grade students and is a Caldecott Honor book (1983).
This book is about a girl named Rosa, her mother, and grandmother who live together and live from paycheck to paycheck after their home and possessions were destroyed by a fire.
This story is heartwarming and tender and has themes of love, family, strength, and determination It is a simple story, with depth and spontaneity.
The illustrations are done in watercolor in an expressionistic style.
Intense roses, blues, yellows, and greens represent strength, energy, and determination.
The text and illustrations completely complement each other.
Friends and neighbors have helped them by bringing them the basic furniture and things they need to their new apartment.
Grandmother collects the change in a jar from bargains she discovers at the market, all of them save their coins for a long time hoping to get a soft place to land for Mother.
When the jar is finally filled, they roll the coins and head out with Grandmother to search for the perfect chair.
After looking in four different stores they come across the perfect chair that is exactly what they were looking for, “just right".Teaching ideas: Helping other people or Working toward a goal.
A Chair for My Mother is a realistic fiction children’s story about a little girl named Rosa, who lives with her mother who is a waitress.
Their neighborhood came together to help replace most of their belongings, but they still did not have a chair for her mother to relax in after a long day at work.
When the jar was finally full, Rosa and her mother were able to go to the store and purchase a chair.
Rosa and her mother had everything they needed, but they had to work extra hard to get something nice.
This is a heartwarming story about a little girl, her mother, and grandmother that live together in an apartment.
After all the donations are given, they decide to save coins from her mother's tips from working at the Blue Tile Diner to purchase "A wonderful, beautiful, fat, soft armchair".
The little girl also contributes to the jar of coins from the money she earns helping her mother at the diner.
The brightly colored pictures supplement the story beautifully and reinforce the themes of this story (sacrifice, love, and affirmation of life).
This Caldecott Honor-winning book is appropriate for discussing these themes with students in grades K-2nd.
After a fire burned up their home, Rosa, her momma, and her Gramma have to work hard to get back on their feet.
Little by little with each coin dropped into a jar, Rosa, her momma, and her grandmother get closer and closer to buying a brand new comfy chair for their new apartment.
This realistic children’s picture book teaches children about the importance of working together and saving toward a goal.
When Rosa, her momma, and Gramma are put out of their home by a fire, they all pull together to make ends meet.
“A Chair for my Mother” a beautifully written and illustrated realistic fiction picture book by Vera B.
It is a story about family who experienced an unfortunate event where they lost everything in their home due to a fire.
She brings home the tips to place into a jar in hopes to one day buy a big comfy chair for the family.
What makes this book realistic fiction is that it is a very relatable story to many readers and their families.
The troubling times or the idea of saving up change in hopes to make ends meet is a common theme in many people’s lives.
A chair for my mother is about a girl who works with her mom and saves their tips up in a jar.
The story takes place mostly in the girl’s home, and the idea of saving up for something new is very realistic and relatable.
They find significance and purpose through their hard work and saving.
I think the theme is that hard work and good planning pay off in the end, and it is good to have goals to reach for.
Yellow is a predominately featured color throughout the story and I think it speaks to the warmth of the characters, but also relates to the fires which are described.
A heartwarming story of a young girl, her mother and grandmother.
It takes a long time (and a lot of dedication and, I'm certain, a lot of self control) to save enough money to buy the perfect chair.This has colorful illustrations that complement the story perfectly.
I love that it shows a warm, loving relationship between the girl, her mother and grandmother.
So many valuable discussions could be held during the reading of this book...discussions about gratitude, determination, money management, helping our neighbors, responsibility, and probably others.
Plus, it's an enjoyable story to read.
Williams is a story about a family whose house burned down in a fire which forced the daughter and her mother to move in with their family members.
The mother and the daughter decide to save their coins for a brand new comfortable chair.
This family's life is drastically changed yet it is a very common disaster.
This family seems to be living in a poor area of town; they are sometimes unable to put very much change into the bowl because of the mother's job.
I have had this nagging feeling for a long time that I didn’t like this book as a child, but for the life of me, I couldn’t remember why.
After finishing it, I decided it must have been the fact that the main character’s family has recently lost everything in a fire.
As an adult, I’m still not in love with this book, but the image of the then-empty and now-full money jar really stood out as strong and aesthetically pleasing images.
I also really liked the way the chair represented different things to different members of the family, and how it encourages the reader to really appreciate the simple things in life.
