https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/79547.Moominvalley_in_November
What a weird little book!This was my first visit to Moominvalley and apparently, I picked the wrong month .
The fact that the owners are gone doesn't stop the uninvited guests from making themselves at home, raiding the pantry and tracking mud into the house.
In fact, if there was a love affair between elderly Grandpa-Grumble and the young, hot Mymble, this could be one of Woody Allen's later, unfunny films.
. .I realize that the Moomin books have been beloved by children and their parents for decades, but I'm having trouble picturing freshly bathed and pajama-clad tots sitting enthralled while Granny reads this passage:In the long, vague dawn as the November night changed to morning, the fog moved in from the sea.
Possibly the most melancholy children's book ever written.
While the Moomin stories all have a slightly unnerving, mysterious quality, but this one is outright existential.The idea is simple: What if there was a children's book where the main characters never showed up?
Normally, this would lead to a quest story to find the family, but in his case, the Moomins are just away on a trip, and the other characters must learn to solve their problems without them.The tone of this is not unlike WAITING FOR GODOT or ROSENCRANTZ AND GUILDERSTREN ARE DEAD -- it's about the people who aren't part of the mian story, about an adventure that's not quite there.
It's sort of a last hurrah for the Moomins, and it's a sweet story that fits its wintery mood.
If you like your children books to be depressing and bleak you couldn't do much better than Moominvalley in November.
If Ingmar Bergman ever directed a children's movie it would probably be like this.
Six depressed and solitary people separately decide to visit this one family that has always made them feel like life is worth living.
I am making this sound a little more bleak than it probably really is, but something about 2/3's of the way into this book inspired me to a not so good feeling depression.
A tender ode to the aura of autumn – drenched in reflective anticipations of the approaching hibernation and speckled with mysterious promises for new beginnings. Clever and wise.

Pidin siitä, että tarina oli yhtenäinen eikä montaa pientä tarinaa. Syvällistä tekstiä, jota lukiessa ajattelee, että tämä pitää lukea uudestaan ajatuksen ja ajan kanssa.
Strangely dark for a children’s book, it’s the last in the Moomins series.
Our cast of six main creatures (they all have paws) are: Fillyjonk, made neurotic by a disastrous housecleaning experience; Grandpa-Grumble, a forgetful and irascible old gent; Mymble, a somewhat vain and silly creature; Toft, a waif longing for a (Moomin)mamma; Snufkin, who is trying to remember a five-note snatch of music he came up with last time he was in Moominvalley; and Hemulen, who has little confidence in himself but thinks he has to arrange things for everyone else.Perhaps the most fun aspect of the book is Jansson’s original black and white line drawings of her peculiarly loveable creations.
The book also felt unique to me for its Scandinavian qualities: the strange sprite-like creatures, woodland settings and short winter days, and the slight air of depression.
Det är som när man kommer hem till sin mamma men hon är ute.
Man sätter sig ner på en stol vid köksbordet och försöker säga 'Jaha ja, pffft, dom kommer nog snart'Man dinglar med benen och försöker lösa lite i ett korsord men det går inte så bra.
Man reser sig upp och gör en kopp kaffe, men den smakar liksom lite platt.
Det är bäst att gå hem till sig igen och vänta lite.Fast mumins vänner stannar så länge dom behöver.
Trots att huset är fullt av avsaknaden av muminfamiljen så tar alla med sig det dom behöver.
Tämä viimeinen Muumi oli niin kaunis ja kaihoisa, etten meinannut malttaa laskea sitä käsistäni. Eihän tässä, kuten oikeastaan Muumipapassa ja meressäkään varsinaisesti mitään tapahtunut, mutta Toven ilmiömäinen taito luoda hahmoja ja tunnelmia vei jälleen kerran mennessään. Tästä Marraskuusta tuli melkein yllättäenkin koko sarjan lempikirja, onneksi olen aloittanut nämä töissä satuhetkellä alusta, niin ei tarvitse muumeista muutamaan kuukauteen vielä kokonaan luopua.
This book so completely captures loss. Like everything Jansson writes, she reduces the plainest and most vital aspects of life to their component parts. Eloquent, mundane, and profound. It was delightful and it also broke my heart. "How can there be so many sounds in an empty house, Fillyjonk thought. Then she remembered that the house was full of people. But somehow she still thought it was empty."
This is a wonderfully subtly book about the decay of Autumn and the change towards winter, about loneliness, fear, music, awkwardness, dementia, an old house, the wind at night, the darkness late in the year, the idea of the family, a sense of loss and waiting. A children's book written with the firm belief that children can accept all of these things.
3.5 starsGood, but not my favourite Moomin story."Hemuli heräsi verkalleen, muisti kuka oli ja ajatteli, että olisi ollut mukavaa olla joku tuntematon." <3
In the previous book, the patriarch has a midlife crisis and moves the family out to a deserted island to allow himself to feel useful again.
But when the six characters of the final book arrive at their house, all dissatisfied and searching for one thing or another, the family is still missing.
Tove Jansson, in the saddest and strangest of her children's (?) books, tells her audience that they'll have to go on without her, and work out their problems as best they can.
The warm and comforting Moominvalley is gone - Jansson couldn't reach it any more, and the series was becoming a burden.
О, толкова прекрасна книжка за времето, когато есента си отива на пръсти и внезапно ти се приисква да се увиеш в пашкул!
Муминското семейство отсъства, но в къщата им внезапно се появяват гости, които нямат друг избор освен да се опитат да си прекарат добре (заедно).
Най-мила ми бе Филифьонката и още дълго ще помня главата с чистенето, трета поред :-) Туве е толкова нежна и светла душа, прекрасен писател, обичам я от сърце!
Чувствам се добре от главата до петите." И аз така :-)) ПП: Ако случайно сте пропуснали - http://www.capital.bg/light/neshta/ra...
Was für eine riesige Mogelpackung! Wie kann das bitte ein Band der Mumins-Reihe sein, wenn die Mumins kein einziges Mal in der ganzen Geschichte vorkommen? Stattdessen sammeln sich zahlreiche Figuren wie der Hemul, die Filifjonka und der kleine Homsa im verlassenen Haus der Mumins und leben mehr schlecht als recht miteinander. Zwischen den Zeilen steckt hier ziemlich viel Herbstmelancholie, manchmal hatte ich sogar das Gefühl es wird das Bild einer Winterdepression gezeichnet, aber ehrlich gesagt war ich zu frustriert mit dem der Abwesenheit meiner Lieblingstrollwesen, um dem viel Aufmerksamkeit zu schenken. Absoluter Reinfall!
Tove Jansson är fantastisk. Tyckte inte riktigt om den här lika mycket som Trollvinter men den var ändå SÅ BRA. 4.5 stjärnor. Jag älskar Mumin.
Lifesaver nr.2 när jag var sjuk tidigare i veckan. Så underbart med denna författarinläsning precis nu, sent i november. https://areena.yle.fi/1-4195039
But readers of the previous story know something that Fillyjonk, Hemulen and Toft do not.
The Moomins have packed up and gone.I don't yet know a great deal about the author (her biography is on my 'To Read' list) but I get the feeling that each of the characters in this book represents aspects of her own personality (annoyingly, I can't remember the name of this technique; if anyone is able enlighten me, I'd be grateful).
It's amazing to me that Tove Jansson was able to take this crew of comical characters with names like Snufkin and Grandpa-Grumble, and create something universal and profound.
Moominvalley in November is the last book in The Moomins series and definitely one of my favourite books written by Tove Jansson.
I do think that it doesn't work well as a book for both adults and children as the other Moomin books do but I thoroughly enjoy the novel every time I reread it and would recommend to pick this up even if you have never read anything by Tove Jansson.
I do think that the absence of the center family, Moomins, creates a brilliant atmosphere and I love how lonely the whole book is.
This quote clicked with me to reshape the structure of my coming book 'Burn My Letters' (see http://bit.ly/burnmyletters)'There are those who stay at home and those who go away and it has always been so.
Everyone can choose for himself, but he must choose while there is still time and never change his mind.'My only qualm with this book is that its sudden ending with little sense of resolution (where ARE the family?
when will they come home?) breaks structural rules, but hey, Tone Jansson has such a strong following that she gets away with it.
Beautiful sense of place, of characters well defined.
Bettie's Books
ilus lugu igatsusest
Sweet and melancholic book about creatures from the Moomin Valley trying to find their true selves. Never understood the Moomin magic as a child, and at least this one is really a book for adults, not children. Some deep stuff going on here. Listened to a beautiful reading by Tove Jansson herself. Listen here (in Swedish): https://areena.yle.fi/1-4195039?autop...
Ta mieszanina niedobranych, neurotycznych bohaterów sprawia wrażenie jakby przynależała raczej do filmu Bergmana niż do pogodnej serii o Muminkach: Paszczak ogarnięty obsesją organizowania życia innym („obudził się powoli i gdy tylko stwierdził, że jest sobą, zapragnął być kimś innym, kimś, kogo nie znał”), maniakalnie sprzątająca Filifionka („dawno już pozbyła się wszystkich swoich krewnych i uciążliwych znajomych i miała mnóstwo czasu, żeby zajmować się swoim domem i swoją samotnością”), wiekowy i zrzędliwy Wuj Truj („Ja jestem na wakacjach.
To chyba najbardziej melancholijna część opowieści o Muminkach, którą najlepiej podsumowuje Mimbla: „Nie przejmuj się, nie ma tu nic gorszego niż my sami”.Tove Jansson zawsze była mistrzynią pisania w prosty sposób o ważnych rzeczach, wydobywania istoty postaci za pomocą kilku zdań, jednak ta książka jest wyjątkowo sugestywna i piękna.
Kukin saa valita itse, mutta on valittava ajoissa, eikä koskaan saa antaa periksi.”Kirja, joka pitää lukea uudelleen aina syksyisin.
Kirja tuo syvyyttä ja uusia kulmia moneen hahmoon, kuten Nuuskamuikkuseen, joka tuntee tässä kirjassa olonsa ensimmäistä kertaa yksinäiseksi, ja esittelee myös aivan uusia otuksia.
Suosikkihahmokseni tässä kirjassa taisi nousta kuitenkin homssu Tuhto, joka lukee Muumipapan kätköistä löytämäänsä vaikeaa, luonnontieteellistä kirjaa ja sepittää samalla omaa tarinaansa, tarinaa yksinäisestä nummuliitista.
Vaikka kirja on näennäisesti satu, siinä käydään läpi suuria eksistentiaalisia kriisejä ja kysymyksiä, hahmotellaan omaa identiteettiä ja rakennetaan uudelleen käsityksiä sellaisista asioista kuten vaikkapa koti, ystävyys, onnellisuus, vapaus ja elämä.

Wish I'd done this on the other Moomin books but some of my favorite quotes from this one:"All you have to do is walk out of the door with your hat on at a jaunty angle!""It's a little sad when you forget other people's names but it's lovely to be able to completely forget your own."
Such a melancholy children's book. But why not? Children are not happy all the time. I could definitely relate to this one around the age of 12, although when I re-read it as an adult, it made more sense.
Vet ikke hvordan jeg skal forholde meg til det faktum at jeg snart har lest alle mummibøkene. Sette meg ned å gråte, lese alle bøkene på nytt, tatovere en hemul bak øret?
Dessa olika figurer stannar av olika anledningar kvar i muminfamiljens tomma hus, och lär sig inte bara leva med varandra, utan lär också känna varandras rädslor och ömma punkter.
Mymlan är nyfiken och kärvänlig, men lägger sig också i andras liv där de helst vill vara ensamma, och verkar ha lite problem med att ta hand om det hon har runt omkring sig.
Han ljuger, men han gör det för att han skulle vilja vara den han ljuger ihop.Käraktärerna är egendomliga, och de alla har en ensamhet, antingen de valt den eller inte.
