https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13986.Arrows_of_the_Queen
When fantasy disappoints me, it usually does so predictably: either the world is poorly-built, the entire story is derivative, it is filled with creepy repressed sexuality, or the Hat Trick.An equestrian friend of mine suggested this series: it was one of her favorites.
However, she had also forced me to read the Potter books (I was recalcitrant due to their popularity) and Pullman's Dark Materials, which weren't bad.Now, I am as disappointed in modern Feminism as your average gender-queer culture-jamming existentialist transhuman chaos magician, so I am slow to suggest that the gender of an author should inform us about their ability to write.
A young boy girl named Harry Potter Talia had a very bad childhood until Hagrid Rolan came and took him her to the wizard school Collegium where he she studies, makes some friends and some enemies.
By the way, I am sorry for comparing a half-giant (Hagrid) to a highly intelligent magical horse (Rolan).Despite all of the similarities to Harry Potter - and there are more than those I mentioned already, this book is not one of the countless Harry Potter clones.
Dear authors, take note: bitchy is not equal to strong!!!Talia almost feels like a realistic human.
I am forced to put the plot as the first casualty, as the author had time to kill, dismember, and bury all the little pieces of it before I even picked up the book.
(view spoiler)[I gotta say it: when I got to the part at the end with the incriminating letters in the hollow arrows, I paused, read that part over again, then said to myself "Just finish the book, and we'll get back to this later." I slogged through the rest of the book, then came back to that part.
We would curl up with our pillows stacked behind our backs and read books and eat ice cream and fall asleep whenever we wanted to.
So I checked it out and that night curled up with my mom and a bowl of mint chocolate chip ice cream and fell in love.Talia is an orphan.
But Talia matures, both chronologically and emotionally in this series, particularly in book two, Arrow's Flight, when she gets shoved through the refiner's fire as she completes her Heraldic training and emerges prepared to defend her Queen.
Executive Summary: This book is super trope-heavy and not always the best written, but I found it a light, fun, quick read that seemed to suit my current mood. 3.5 stars. Full Review I’ve heard of Mercedes Lackey, but none of her books had made it onto my to ever growing to read pile. If not for Sword & Laser I probably never would have read this.This is one of those books that read at a different point, I might have been bored by. I’ve been a bit burnt out on reading lately and this seemed
Executive Summary: This book is super trope-heavy and not always the best written, but I found it a light, fun, quick read that seemed to suit my current mood.
I’m a complete sucker for the Magic school trope.
This book covers all of those things, but in subtle ways.
It could simply be that my own personal reading selection in the 80s and 90s simply neglected other works covering these kinds of things.
I doubt the cover with the girl on the magic horse was something I’d have been willing to give a try in my teens.
I’m aware that there are tons of problematic things about Mercedes Lackey’s body of work, though I haven’t looked at details.
And the main character is a young girl who loves books, and turns out to belong to something bigger than herself — that scullery maid to (almost) princess sort of transition which can be so fun (and which so often brings forth cries of “Mary Sue” when the character is female, and yet no such complaint is made if the character is male).It’s fun, and Talia is capable and compassionate, while also learning and growing throughout the book.
I mean seriously, she is twelve or thirteen and out of a backwater province with no real education or experience and yet she can enter a new land with new politics, culture, etc.
I mean seriously the bad guys had no brains.Plot aside, there were two aspects of this book that still make me heart happy.
Even if I can’t have a telepathic horse on me ship for practical reasons, I still kinda want one.The second aspect of this book concerns sexuality.
So hurrah for that!So while me second reflections of this novel seemed to point out the flaws in this book more than anything else, I still maintain me fondness for it.
So, when a Companion — one of the blue-eyed white horses who belongs to a Herald — shows up without a rider, Talia is happy to help him find his way home and stunned to learn that she’s been chosen to be trained as a Herald.Published in 1987, Arrows of the Queen is Mercedes Lackey’s first novel and the first in her popular Valdemar series.
Mercedes Lackey’s first novel has a nice pace (though Talia’s lessons were sometimes prolonged and too detailed) and an engaging heroine, and introduces a world I’d like to learn more about.I listened to Albany Audio’s version of Arrows of the Queen, which was narrated by Carole Edie Smith.
An entertaining, easy-read coming of age story in which Talia escapes her difficult family to train as a Herald, complete with magical powers and an even more magical horse.
Another positive is the general atmosphere of kindness that surrounds her in Herald training school - obviously there's conflict in the story and enemies to be defeated, but they're often almost outside the text, and it's nice to read a book where pretty much everyone who spends any time on page is a decent person.
The rest of the series will be going on my reading list, though, and I hope they're as likable as this one!
3.5/5; 4 stars; B+I have had a pile of Mercedes Lackey books sitting on a shelf in the basement ever since I inherited them from my sister years ago. I finally started working on them. I remember Joan telling me to start with these then follow with the Magic's Pawn subset.This book had several strong female characters, including the main character. It reminds me very much of the Tamora Pierce series I read lately starting with Terrier.This was good clean fantasy. I don't feel compelled to rush out and binge on the series but I will definitely read more.
It's the author's first book of the series, her first novel entirely if I remember correctly, and after having read some of her later works, I can say that it shows.
Like many of the books in the Valdemar series, it's very character-driven, and can at times appear slow.
Not an uncommon trick in stories, to fill in the reader without resorting to pages and pages of narration and history, though it does get a little bit tedious at time.It is always a bit strange to me, going back and rereading this novel, because so many tiny little things contradict for many larger things that Mercedes Lackey established in later books.
I absolutely ADORED this book.
I wanted to give it five stars...But how can I when I'm so effing mad that (view spoiler)[Talia won't end up with Skif?
I know that Dirk saw her first and that usually is a good indicator of who the real love interest is, but still!
Skif spent so much time with Talia, was a more developed character.
I feel like Dirk just suddenly appeared out of nowhere, he doesn't get any page time until the end.
It shares a lot of similarities with Tamora Pierce's Alanna, though I think I'd prefer this book.
It isn't my favorite (Kero's tale has that honor), but it comes very very close.I re-read this book (and the rest of the trilogy) probably about once a year, and I never get tired of them.Don't be fooled by the childish looking covers, this trilogy deals with some VERY adult themes..
but it does it in a way that doesn't leave you feeling slimy.Are there talking horses?
It's a fantasy novel.
Animals frequently talk in fantasy.
Narnia, anyone?The Valdemar books are still my favorite series of all time.
Talia is a peasant girl who yearns to be more than a brood-mare. She wants books and adventure! Alas, all she has to look forward to is years of more abuse and hard labor. But then! A sparkly magical white horse comes by! The Companion (the shiny psychic horse) takes her to Valdemar, an idyllic kingdom where a wise, hard-working, common-sensical queen rules. Training montage! Everyone thinks Talia is the bestest evar! Talia is a bit like Alanna, except infuriatingly humble.
Full video review: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fXJoy...3.5-4ish.
And these things are important to a good story.It bugged him at first, but he eventually came around to what I was saying and recognized my advice was probably accurate.I'd like him to read this book as an example of how boring a character can be if she's perfect at everything she ever does.Talia is a 13-year-old who leaves her own corner of the world because she's about to be forced into marriage which is pretty ew considering her age.
What fun it is, to revisit an old-time favorite and enjoy it just as much as ever.
Solid feel-good fantasy about a young woman coming of age. Strongly reminiscent of Alanna: The First Adventure and Dragonsinger for me.
Ugh, what? Get outta here.
ARROWS OF THE QUEEN has absolutely no plot, no plot points, no character development, no climax, and overall nothing good about it.
I am not even over exaggerating.Here's what happens in the story.
Talia gets welcomed into a royal castle and becomes a part of the Queen's army.
She then goes to classes every day and talks to people inside the castle's gates to pass time.
And that is really all that happens for the entire 320 pages.
There is no antagonist in ARROWS OF THE QUEEN.
The same goes for all of the side characters.
This book has absolutely no action at all.
Otro para la lista de libros entretenidos que me habrían gustado más con doce años, pero que a esa edad no habría empezado ni muerta. Me imagino la cara que hubiese puesto si me llegan a dar entonces un libro sobre una chica especial y su caballo mágico telépata y me entra la risa. En fin, está bien aunque no sea su público objetivo.
This was also very clearly a set-up book, and I have faith that the rest of the series and works of Lackey improve in writing and in plot.
I didn't exactly love Talia (our protagonist) either, though she seems to change a bit as she gains a few years towards the end of the book.
The magics of this world are briefly touched on but seem intriguing, and I am curious to find out more about them.Overall, I really enjoyed this little fantasy book and recommend it to anyone looking for light, easy read.
Talia wants one thing in life and that's to become a herald and ride their magic horses like in the stories she reads, but she lives in a village where virtually everything is forbidden to women.
After arriving at the Collegium she trains for the next 3 out of 5 years along with other children her age on the road to be Heralds themselves.When I read a book like this I am reminded of how well JK Rowling perfected the often used and sometimes abused trope of children going off to some sort of academy to fullfill their calling and train as wizards or whatever it is they're supposed to be and how badly that same trope is used by every other author.
When I was younger, I would say in my early teens, my friends read all of the Mercedes Lackey books they could get their eyes on.
Talia longs to become a herald and travel with her own companion to carry out the queen's law.
For grades 6-9.the NLS description couldn't touch the themes Lackey touches on in this book.
Her narration, woven with the world Lackey has created here,has enthralled me.I would highly recommend this book, and I might just curl up with the next book as soon as I can get it loaded.
Young hero who's miserable, abused and unappreciated at home, until duh, duh, duh, duh, duh, duh, duh, DAAAAA, one of the chosen.
The young protagonist who's had a hard to miserable childhood/youth and then gets called away to be a hero/heroine.
Still (my sense of humor aside) it's a well written book and the young protagonist is appealing and complete.
The book tells a "pretty good" story and draws you in.So why drop it to a 3?
Don't tell me if it's you.Recommended, a good read I hope the series holds up.
When she realises the future planned for her by those in her household she blindly runs only to found by a Companion the fabled steeds of the Heralds who serve the Queen as messengers and warriors, not wanting to go back to her home Talia decides to take the Companion back to the Queen and see where fate may take her.
Her tale of a lonely abused teenage girl finding her way and realising she is more special than she can imagine was enchanting and read it cover to cover in one sitting.
I would give this a 1.5 if I could because I did enjoy the beginning of this book, if nothing else.
I was truly interested in following this girl's journey.
I felt like there was little character development.
I was also irked by the fact that this book spans 5 years or so of this girls life and very little actually happens.
I may read the next book in this series because I get the feeling that Lackey trying to cram Talia's background into a single novel so that the next novel would make sense.
This book could have been so much better.
Today this book gets dumped into the YA category, which is probably wrong.
If I wwere a REAL young adult and somebody gave me this book and said 'this book's for you', I would feel pretty insulted.That aside, it's not a bad book.
It's all very sparkly, goody, goody fun but reading it as an adult I kept feeling that there was going to be a twist in the end with one of the major characters turning out to be a secret villain.
I wouldn't say I was bedazzled by the book but I liked it enough to plan on reading the rest of the trilogy next year.
Quite obviously a first book, it reminded me a bit of Pern.
I really enjoyed it, though I recognize its faults and that it was kind of "simple." It reminded me of why I love fantasy and what got me into the genre to begin with.
There was growth of the main character, there was love, there was loss...but it wasn't like there was a lead-up to an epic battle and then a happy ending for all.
I didn't even realize that the book was at the end until I couldn't go forward more on my Kindle.
This book put me in pigtails.
I read this with the joy of finally getting around to a Mercedes Lackey title.
But it is good to show some love to a writer who wrote in such a timely manner, as opposed to the latest tend of a book every five or seven year.
The book had a nice pace, taking a young girl from a bad situation to a magical place with a super powered horse.
It sounds super silly, but it works.
To put it in nerd land language, Sansa would have loved to read this book while nibbling lemon cakes.
