https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/457228.Butcher_s_Crossing
Miller had seen a large herd numbering nearly 3,000 a few years before in a valley in the Colorado mountains.
I sold my rifle.To keep a herd from running away you have to kill their leader first.”The buffalo passed their wounded leader, and ran beyond him some three hundred yards, where their running gradually spent itself, and where they stood, milling uneasily about.
He turned around several times, as another animal might have done before sleeping, and finally stood facing the two men who were more than two hundred yards away from him.
Why read a historical novel about a privileged Harvard dropout who wants to find himself by going on a buffalo hunt?1. It's by John Williams, who wrote one of my three favourite novels, Stoner, which I reviewed HERE, as well as the almost as good Augustus, which I reviewed HERE.2. Hunting is not what it's really about (probably like Moby Dick?).3. It was a good follow-on from Cold Mountain, which I reviewed HERE: two totally different US landscape-based stories, set only a few years apart.What T
It was a good follow-on from Cold Mountain, which I reviewed HERE: two totally different US landscape-based stories, set only a few years apart.What This Is - and Is Not•	This is a road movie - without the road, the car, or the film cameras.•	It's a Western - without cows, cowboys or indians native Americans.•	It's a character-based story - but the main characters don't speak or move (because they’re the landscape and weather).•	It's about big beasts, big wilderness, big ambitions, some big characters - but it often focuses on the minutest details of how things looks, sound, and feel (see quotes near the end).•	It’s about quests and dreams (of meaning for one; of wealth for another); aspects have a mythical air – but harsh reality dominates, and it's not the standard "American Dream" of wealth (success, fame, power).•	It's a coming-of-age story or bildungsroman - except that the end of the journey seems more like the beginning of Will's growing up.

The idealistic youth has been substituted for a man who finally accepts he cannot escape himself, a man who feels comfortable with his emptiness like the reader has grown used to hearing the unwritten echo of silence and to appreciate the chilly texture of the color white.This is an unorthodox bildungsroman more than a Western and John Williams discovers that Ace up his sleeve at a carefully studied pace.
The claustrophobic sensation that emanates from his writing could easily be compared to the one provoked by the infinity of open space, that of frosty snow covering the earth and night and day becoming an unbearable succession of blinding darkness and blinding whiteness and the maddening impression of being locked in the small boundaries of our diminutive, suffocating consciousness.
The smell of scorched coffee permeates the air, joining the stink of buffalo hunters too long on the trail.
Later, the confusion of the herd is rampant amidst the air made hazy and heavy by gun smoke.
The horror of the elements, and the sheer beauty.I searched for this book based solely on the fact that the author is the man who penned Stoner.
After reading, I had to stifle a snort at the tag on the spine of the book.
The author is a veritable virtuoso with his deceptively simple writing.
Is the sighting of large herds of buffalo on a hidden track nine or ten years previously good enough reason to set off on a buffalo killing expedition?
Miller thinks so, and young Andrews is keen to join, and he needs no persuading to both invest money and join as learner skinner.
But this is no simple adventure story.Why is Miller, leader of the expedition, so obsessed with finding this herd and killing every single bison in it?
Stupidity and greed take over as Miller obsessively decimates the vast herd as if they were goldfish in a bowl.
Andrews dropped to his hands and knees and swung his head from side to side like a wounded animal. “My God!” he said thickly, “My God, my God”.  “A whole winter’s work,” Miller said in a flat dead voice. “It took just about two minutes.”  “Andrews raised his head wildly, and got to his feet. “Schneider,” he said. “Schneider. We’ve got to-”  “Miller put his hand on his shoulder. “Take it easy, boy. Won’t do no good to worry about Schneider.” I went to bed last night still thinking about this rem
He turned west, his back toward Butcher’s Crossing and the town and cities that lay eastward beyond it; he walked past the clump of cottonwoods toward the river he had not seen but which had assumed in his mind the proportions of a vast boundary that lay between himself and the wildness and freedom that his instinct sought.I really don’t believe that Andrews knew what he was letting himself in for when he headed west in 1873.
He had money in his pocket and in no time after his arrival at Butcher’s Crossing, a small Kansas town in the back of beyond, he had met Mr. McDonald who bought and sold buffalo hides.
… he believed - and had believed for a long time - that there was a subtle magnetism in nature, which, if he unconsciously yielded to it, would direct him aright … (48) Now Andrews could see the herd clearly. Against the pale yellow-green of the grass, the dark umber of the buffalo stood out sharply … Many were lying at ease upon the soft valley grass; those were mere humps, like dark rocks, without identity or shape … some were grazing lightly, others stood unmoving, they huge furry heads slum
It is a short but deep novel, unforgettable, and maybe somewhat disturbing.Will Andrews has left Harvard in his third year, with his share of an uncle’s bequest, and traveled to the American West, in search of a man who his father knew for a time back in Boston, a man named McDonald.
I just want to know more about this country.” (22-3)Besides Andrews and McDonald, there are only four other named characters in the novel; Miller, the buffalo hunter; Charley Hoge, Miller’s sidekick and the hunting party’s wagon driver and cook; Francine, an attractive “whore” in Butcher’s Crossing who is in turn attracted to Andrews; and Schneider, the final member of the hunting party, hired as chief skinner.
But it didn’t sell many copies either.Fast forward to 2013:A dramatic change occurred when the New York Review of Books (NYRB) re-issued Stoner, a novel about a quiet, unassuming, and in many ways, forgettable professor teaching literature at the University of Missouri, which had originally been published in 1965.
Suddenly, everyone had heard of John Williams, at least those who read books.
He had become an overnight success – almost a half-century after he had written the book -- and almost two decades after his death.A year later, NYRB re-issued Augustus.
Well, perhaps, not Old Testament good, but there were times when reading this I felt GOD's finger might have just been scratching this prose on a rock or bleached bone in a mountain somewhere.
You live all your life on lies, and then maybe when you’re ready to die, it comes to you that there’s nothing, nothing but yourself and what you could have done.
It is a story of death, obsession, nature, destruction, dreams, and the myth of the American West and the Wilderness Myth.At times 'Butcher's Crossing' also reminded me of the beautiful, dreamy, obsessiveness of Werner Herzog's movies.
"A cold wind blew across the prairie when the last buffalo fell..... a death wind for my people."  ~~Sitting BullThey came down into valley, and the buffalo herds were moving darkly over the land like waves on the ocean. The men slowly moved in on them. The first shot went to kill the leader of the herd, more shots would follow. My mind stopped. The buffalo just stood there in wonder of what was going on, and one by one they were killed.
Butcher's Crossing  is about another facet of the Great American Dream, the myth of the pristine land, a Garden of Eden where Man can go to find beauty, peace and dignity.Will Andrews is a child of the modern world, growing up in Boston around 1870 in a reasonably wealthy family.
Young Andrews education turns to a bloody and gruesome page, as the idillic landscape becomes a scene of indiscriminate slaughter and Miller's goal of wiping out the herd completely is revealed as the spirit of the modern world that gets drunk on power and immediate profit without any thought for long term consequences or preservation of resources ['Drill Baby, Drill!'].
Almost without regret, he could admit now the vanity from which those passions had sprung."The "unalterable self", of course is found to be "a nothingness" and we continue.
His sentences often read like the Old Testament, reminding me of Cormac McCarthy's style.
Indeed, I should not be surprised to learn that McCarthy had read Butcher's Crossing prior to writing Blood Meridian.
Strangely, for myself, this book touched many memories of dreams, of events and of emotions of my youth, as cited above.
Such is the nature of this book.
5★In his third year at Harvard, Will Andrews leaves his studies to go west.
As Michelle Latiolais writes in her excellent introduction, "Andrews seeks the wilderness so the he can be 'a part and parcel of God, free and unconfined’; what he will later encounter in nature is more akin to the malice of an Old Testament God.” Later as he participates in the greedy slaughter of five thousand bison he “did not know who he was, or where he went.”John Williams, author of another favorite of mine Stoner, gives us a harrowing, unadulterated, and unromanticized vision of unchecked United States westward expansion, pillaging, and slaughter.
Que motivação pode levar os homens a deixarem-se reduzir aos instintos mais básicos?O que leva o homem a desafiar os elementos, a arriscar a vida com uma faca no bolso?Que prazer, que satisfação, que desejo secreto o leva à matança selvagem, até não restar mais nada?O apelo do desconhecido?Testar todos os limites?
Que o homem é um eterno solitário, que a demanda em busca de um sentido para a vida pode ser a essência da própria vida?
E pensamos sempre que o homem, o ser humano racional, é o mais misterioso e indómito dos animais.Só queria ter mais livros de John Williams para ler!
Everyday was an equinox of life and death.The onset of the winter drew the men back to their camps and some of our lives were spared.
I resumed my old life indifferently, away from the flayed bodies.
The men strove against the winter with our hides and survived on our flesh.
It made me wonder that what was that these men were after: were they looking only to earn a living from the hides, or find a meaning which might lie under the hides?
Nevertheless, try reading this compelling book, may be not from buffalo's perspective like me.
I enjoyed this sparse and dark novel set in Kansas and Colorado in the period after the Civil War.Strong characterisation and very atmospheric.This is Moby Dick brought to a rapidly changing American West.A precursor to the novels of Cormac McCarthy.
I turned the last page knowing that, instead, it was an epic tragedy.
If you can read this book without having your stomach turned at the senseless slaughter of these animals, you're a stronger person than I am.
Four men go into this valley to kill one of the last of the big herds in the country.
It's really too bad that buffalo were such gentle creatures, I was hoping they would turn on the hunters, leaving four dead men instead of thousands of dead buffalo.
This was a complex novel of men and their dreams and motives, and what they are willing to do to achieve them.
Penned in 1960, John Williams' BUTCHER'S CROSSING anticipates and in many ways eclipses Cormac McCarthy's western works because it not only nails the rapacious greed of the buffalo hunters it describes, it reaches for more abstract and troubling themes that go to the very essence of man and his place in the world.Will Andrews, the protagonist, is but a 23-year-old preacher's son when he shows up in Butcher's Crossing with money and a dream in hand.
A common question is, "How could this happen?" For the handful of people who are not asking that question rhetorically, I could reply "I don't know" or I could attempt a lengthy answer about how the choice meant different things to different people, different oxen being gored.
He thinks he knows where one of the last great herds of buffalo is, hidden through a pass in the Colorado Rockies.
With him is Charley Hoge, one-handed, with a need for whiskey and his well-worn Bible, but useful and loyal.
The killing stops; the men look upward.
You're too old."Andrews protests."You ain't learned, then," McDonald said.
"You ain't learned yet.
And after the evening of butchery, just when I thought I might throw up, an understanding of the horror: It came to him that he had turned away from the buffalo not because of a womanish nausea at blood and stench and spilling gut; it came to him that he had sickened and turned away because of his shock at seeing the buffalo, a few moments before proud and noble and full of the dignity of life, now stark and helpless, a length of inert meat, divested of itself, or his notion of its self, swinging grotesquely, mockingly, before him.
Tutte azioni descritte con accuratezza da una prosa mimetica che ci restituisce mirabilmente la fatica, il caldo, la sete, l’attimo di sospensione che precede il colpo di fucile, il silenzio pauroso della natura, sempre innocente perché inumana, eppure esposta alle violazioni dell’uomo, nel suo muoversi spesso automatico e insensato.
Una scrittura che, soprattutto, ci restituisce - mi ha restituito - quell’istante difficile e doloroso di cui parlavo, quel risveglio alla realtà dopo il quale non ci resta che voltare il cavallo, lasciarci alle spalle le macerie, e continuare comunque il viaggio.
Anything that's prefaced by a quotation from Melville's The Confidence Man is ok by me.
This one, by the author of Stoner, owes a lot more to Melville than that -- from Transcendental meditations to musings on "white," not to mention the monomania of a man on a hunt (like Gatsby, come to think of it, but broader, and deeper, and colder/wetter, and hotter/thirstier).
This is Moby-Dick in the early American west, with many, many buffalo instead of a single whale, and set very very much on land.
Williams's writing doesn't lend itself to easy quotation -- he does not write epigrammatically, but gorgeously.
O livro que terminei antes deste foi o célebre ensaio de Emerson, A Natureza, de 1836.
I become a transparent eye-ball; I am nothing; I see all; the currents of the Universal Being circulate through me; I am part or parcel of God.Antecipei a leitura deste livro por recomendação da Carmo.
A filosofia de Emerson é a responsável pela decisão do personagem principal desta história, a sua ida para Butcher's Crossing, terra de nada, longe de tudo.À semelhança do que encontrei no Stoner, temos uma narrativa metódica e despretensiosa, desta vez num cenário bem mais severo.
Cinco estrelas não, porque há o Stoner..."Uma pessoa nasce, é amamentada na mentira, é desmamada na mentira e aprende mentiras mais elaboradas na escola.
Vive toda a vida no meio da mentira e mais tarde, porventura quando está prestes a morrer, descobre que não há nada, nada a não ser ela própria e o que podia ter feito.
Só que não o fez, porque as mentiras lhe disseram que havia outra coisa.
Nessa altura percebe que podia ter todo o mundo, porque é a única pessoa que sabe o segredo; só que então é tarde demais.

The book that can disabuse anyone of the "romance" of the Western. A haunting and brilliant book.

"Stoner" gets a lot more press when it comes to John Williams, but I think this book is just as good if not better. Totally different tone and setting, but an incredible Western, about a buffalo hunt that goes terribly awry. It has some of the same wanton, destructive tones of "Blood Meridian," without all the pseudo-Faulknerian prose. A real masterpiece.
6 EstrelasReview mais tarde...
