https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/149372.The_Elusive_Mrs_Pollifax
I was in the middle of this book when I read of Dorothy Gilman's recent death.
Dorothy Gilman is best known for her Mrs. Pollifax series, but it was actually her other novels that I preferred.
My late mother-in-law was a devoted Mrs. Pollifax fan, and perhaps I stupidly relegated the series to old ladies who liked Murder She Wrote, for I resisted reading all but the first one.
Now I am making up for it by going back and reading the Mrs. Pollifax series from the early days.
I'm not sure how she does it, but Dorothy Gilman has the talent for making you immediately care for these characters.
In book three of the series, the CIA’s least likely courier is sent on a mission to Bulgaria.
The CIA has given her a wonderful custom-made hat, in which she can hide the documents.
But her CIA supervisor, Carstairs, should know better.
Emily Pollifax has a talent for getting involved and this trip will be no different.
Before anyone knows what’s happening she is helping a handful of older men break into an impregnable prison – with the help of one teenage gymnast, one pistol, some fireworks and a gaggle of geese.I love this series.
Mrs Pollifax is charming, smart, resourceful and calm in a crisis.
When I first saw one of the books in the Mrs. Pollifax series, I assumed it was another cozy mystery.
I really enjoyed the first two books in the series and I was eager to read more about this entertaining character.
Perfect book to read on an airplane - I really enjoyed it.
I am really looking forward to reading the fourth book in the series, A Palm for Mrs. Pollifaxinteresting quote:"She's using herself, she's needed, thought Mrs. Pollifax, and wondered why so many people insisted upon happiness being a matter of ease." (p.
3.5 stars rounded up - Mrs. Pollifax is the perfect example of how to age well.
This is a wonderful series.
The first book in the series didn't impress me a great deal at the time.
But, after taking into consideration the era these books were written in, I've developed a healthy respect for Mrs. Pollifax.
Published in the early 1970's, and written in "present day ", the cold war and communism provided a backdrop as Mrs. Pollifax is contracted by Carstairs to deliver forged passports to Bulgaria.Naturally, Mrs. Pollifax gets involved in much more than was intended and gets in way over her head.
There are phrases unique to the time frame that just added to the book's charm.
Another fun book in this series. Can’t wait to read the rest of them.
This would be good for mystery lovers and teens.This is book 3 in the series.
In this book she is sent to Bulgaria to deliver fake passports to the underground.
By the end of the book, some major things have happened for the good that shock and awe her boss back at the CIA.
I really liked the ending.AUDIOBOOK NARRATOR:I like the narrator Barbara Rosenblat doing other books.
In this book she was ok but not as good.
She made her sound like she was in her 90s.
Most women in their 60s don’t sound like that.
It's possible that this is the best Mrs. Pollifax book ever.
But the best part is, as always, the interaction of Mrs. Pollifax with everyone she meets, from a bossy Balkan Tourist guide to a grumbly history professor.
This may also contain the single best scene in the series - a late night talk between Mrs. Pollifax and the mysterious leader of the Bulgarian underground.
There is no one else like Mrs. Pollifax.
Fortunately the books make great rereads, as I've discovered in the last decades.NB - Rosenblat narrates the series, and she makes Mrs. P.
Mrs. Pollifax starts out a little slow in this spy thriller set in Bulgaria. At one point, I was asking, “ Mrs. Pollifax, what were you thinking?” But then she gets up to speed, and you just can’t help but love her, with her flowered hat, karate chops, and willingness to improvise. Bond is oh so predictable next to her.
A reread, I remembered most of this one. The story is not quite as logical and the side characters not quite so congenial as in the previous two Mrs Pollifax books. I actually was not sure that I even liked Mrs Pollifax as well. But it is still exciting and a quick captivating read.
Mrs. P saves the day, as always, and it's more of the same good stuff: high adventure, suspense, great characters, and intriguing scenery.I love the way this story starts, with a group of Mrs. Pollifax's friends gathered in her apartment in New Brunswick, New Jersey, at midnight, to witness her night-blooming cereus unfolding its petals.
And even though they're a few generations apart, the two make a great team, and it is very enjoyable to read about.There is also the thrill of adventure, laced with danger, and of seeing the countryside of another foreign country through the eyes of Mrs. Pollifax and Dorothy Gilman.
Actually the third in the series and I finished it sometime ago, read it before re-reading #2, The Amazing Mrs. Pollifax.
Catching up now.Scene - Bulgaria.
An unforgettable character, Tsanko."They sat quietly together, the sounds of the night encircling them: the shrilling of cicadas, the call of a whippoorwill, a murmur of rustling leaves from the forest.
It was extraordinary how fond she had become of this man, thought Mrs. Pollifax, and she reflected upon how few persons there were with whom she felt an instinctive rapport.
There was never anything tangible about this.
For a long time I tracked down audio books for my late wife.
My wife and I both truly enjoyed the adventures of Emily Pollifax.In this one (#3 in the series) Emily gets lied to (overtly for the first time) by her "handler" at the CIA, Carstairs.
Not told about all she's carrying and getting involved in several side adventures Mrs. Pollifax (however) triumphs again.These are some of the most enjoyable comedy/drama books I've had the pleasant experience of discovering.
Unexpected, Amazing and now, Elusive Mrs. Pollifax - Book 3 in this series by Dorothy Gilman has me still enchanted with this character and her adventures, incredible though they are.
I have the next two adventures queued-up on my iPod, expecting to accompany the delightful senior lady to other corners of the world.Although these early books were written in the 1970s and the CIA and international spying activities are dated, it is still quite fun to imagine that you are part of Mrs. Pollifax's intrigues.
Narrator Barbara Rosenblat has long been a favorite of mine, and she is outstanding in this series as well.
Another good Pollifax adventure. I was sorry to have to skip #2 since it wasn't available at the moment from the library, but this one was still good. I did feel I missed things in between the two books, but I could live with that.
I've now read three (3) in the series, and they're entertaining enough.
I still think that the first was the most entertaining, while, overall, the basic gist and the protagonist are sufficiently amusing to make the pages in the (relatively) short books turn pretty quickly.
Conversely, my wife finds Mrs. Pollifax more entertaining than I do, and so we're already buying the books, so ...
The series hasn't jumped the shark yet. Still a marvelous lead character and an entertaining, fast paced plot. The Iron Curtain setting is neat, too. Ah, back when the Russians were the bad guys instead of Middle Eastern villains!
Mrs. Pollifax, fabulously hatted, heads to Bulgaria. More Cold War, more young people in need of direction, more unexpected heroes and helpers. Despite the appearance of Tsanko, I find this one less exciting than the first two.
Some of the formatting is a little wonky but the story itself was well-done though a bit dated. Mrs Pollifax is a delight. I want to be her when I grow up :D
Book #3. Mrs. Pollifax accepts a CIA courier job to Bulgaria and, of course, ends up doing so much more. And a bit of romance for Mrs. Pollifax.
I’m sort of in love with this series. Mrs. Polifax is a gem!
another rollicking thriller with Mrs Pollifax! to be recommended :)
to going above and beyond the call of duty!it reminded me of my ma's night-blooming cereus
Mrs. P does it again!
Very good. You have to pay attention to lots of characters ( I was listening to audio).
I am very slowly making my way through the Mrs. Pollifax series by Dorothy Gilman, and loving every book I find.
It happens that Carstairs, whose position in the CIA is rather difficult to define, needs an elderly woman to be a spy, and so Mrs. Pollifax is hired.
In order to hand them over she must elude her guide/warden, Nevena (who is a JOY, by the way; I especially love her sheer exasperation and annoyance with Mrs. Pollifax toward the end of the book), and avoid at least two assassination attempts.
This is my favorite book in this series so far.
It has a fresh, optimistic tone that I like very much.
There is a depth in the book that I didn't experience with the two additional books I've read in this series.
If you haven't read any of these books, they're worth checking out.
Back then it was unlikely for a grandmother to be anything like an independent woman acting as an agent.
The books were written long before television's Jessica Fletcher appeared on the scene.
This series paints older people as strong, smart, and capable.
In this book, Mrs. Pollifax gets a "simple" assignment, gets distracted - sort of - and then everything goes crazy. With some quick thinking and a lot of scheming, though, Mrs. Pollifax is at it again. As always, unexpected and awesome secondary characters join her in her adventure. International intrigue at its most entertaining even when everything is seemingly disjointed.
Mrs. Polifax #3
Mrs. Pollifax is certainly a unique type of amateur sleuth. I am enjoying her adventures and look forward to the next installment.
