https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30.J_R_R_Tolkien_4_Book_Boxed_Set
Some will shout with joy, others will scream in derision. However, we can all agree on one thing:It's long.
, which was published the same year.Not only does Tolkien put forth a vision of chaste, humble, 'everyman' heroes who persevere against temptation through piety, he also presents a world of dualistic good and evil, of eternal, personal morality, prototypical of the Christian worldview, particularly the post-Miltonic view.
Unlike Gro, Gollum is not a character with an alternative view of the world, but fluctuates between the hyperbolic highs and lows of Tolkien's morality.It is unfortunate that both good and evil seem to be external forces at work upon man, because it removes much of the agency and psychological depth of the characters.
On 24th July 2016, I bought 'The Hobbit & The Lord of the Rings box-set' Alhamdulillah.I like 'The Hobbit' trilogy but I think 'The Hobbit: The Battle of Five Armies' is best out of all.
I prefer 'The Hobbit' book than movie trilogy.Those characters in the book are stupendous!I love this book so much Alhamdulillah.
Alhamdulillah.'The Return of King'I love the conclusion of 'The Lord of the Rings'.
I thought 'The Return of the King' book is the best book in the 'The Lord of the Rings'.
I thought 'The Lord of the Rings' is a lot better than 'The Hobbit'.Alhamdulillah I love 'The Return of the King'.
Well my answer to this is simply: DON'T BE LAZY!My journey within Middle Earth stated as young teenager - my parents gave me 'The Hobbit' as a Christmas present one year and my father and I decided we'd enjoy it together.
The struggles and hardships are of such importance and value to both the reader and the characters by the end of the journey, Tolkien has spoken volumes about friendship, love, bravery, honour, loyalty, deceit...you name it, its all there.These books are a must read, wherever you are in your lifetime.
When I later read the trilogy in high school, it was far easier to immerse myself in Tolkien's writing.
Though I love all of the books, by far my favorite is The Two Towers.
I think it shows the most interesting character development (especially in Frodo, Samwise, and Gollum) and Tolkien's tactic of writing two separate storylines in one book is always exciting.
Just when you finish one storyline and are left jonesing for the next installment, you realize there is an entire other half to the story you forgot about.
My third time to read The Hobbit and the Lord of the Rings trilogy.
I read all the poetry and verse this time.
I love how they teach loyalty, fidelity, duty, and love of things more than self.
One other thing, we see that evil gets nervous also and that it will eventually collapse in on itself.
In many pieces that show good and evil, good win almost by luck and by "tricking" evil in some way.
Good will always win as long as there are good men and women willing to give of self for the better good.
It's a genuinely good series. Very inventive and original. The reason I gave it 2 stars is because it was so god damn boring. Descriptions were tedious, fight scenes were tedious. I couldn't wrap my head around the story in general. Sometimes I skimmed whole paragraphs and pages and understood everything that was happening just fine! Honestly, I'm still wondering where the hell I got the patience to sit down and read the whole thing. Especially with so few female characters (thank god for Eowyn). I recommend it for people who like fantasy and don't mind unnecessary content.
If my life would be writen between the pages of a book; I wish it be the Lord of the ring. By the master's pen; all became real, so Hail to my inspiration Tolkien who made me feel the beauty of words. Hail...
Mix with good & bad Wizards, Elves, Dwarves, a magical gold ring everyone wants, Orcs, terrifying Ringwraiths, a once "of hobbit-kind" creature called Gollum, a demon Balrog, a giant spider named Shelob, tree-like Ents, Humans, huge elephant-like Oliphaunts and Trolls.
unwilling to do anything but read the next sentence, next paragraph, next page, next chapter, then next book until you finally wave goodbye to Bilbo, Frodo, Gandolph and the elves as they ...
Well, I don't really have this boxed set, but of course I've read all the books. I get more out of them with each re-reading. Tolkien would be one of those guys who, if I could invite any 3 people to have dinner with, would get a seat at the table.
I read this, mainly through my break times during a vile summer job, when I was a student. Tolkien's classic helped to isolate the Trolls I was working with at the time.
Again, I can't do epics.
I will watch the movie rather than read this again any day of the week.
The writing's very dense, and it's clear that Tolkien was a major history buff.
He's created a world that is fully, fully fleshed-out.
After reading these as a teenager, I've not really been tempted to go back.
It's different with someone like Philip Pullman, whose writing is some sort of catnip to me.
Tolkien just doesn't strike the same chord, so all hail Peter Jackson, and I'm afraid the books have largely been relegated to display-only on my bookshelf.
Given that Tolkien did not just invent a world, new creatures and weapons, but invented an actual freaking language, he gets 5 stars from me (I'm sure he was anxiously awaiting my approval).
I resisted reading them for years as I thought they were a level of dork I was not ready for.
Then I saw the first movie and had to know what happened.
I'm so happy I did (if I had only seen the movie's incredibly poor tactical decisions I would have thought Tolkien a moron).
An incredible work.
I agree with Michael Moorcock: racist petit-bourgeois bullshit.
---(The following review was from my last reading, Jan 2009)Tolkien did not like religious allegory, (reportedly including his good friend C.S. Lewis's Narnia series) and says in the introduction to "The Fellowship of the Ring:" "I think that many confuse 'applicability' with 'allegory'; but the one resides in the freedom of the reader, and the other to the purposed domination of the author."Two of my bookgroup friends chose to co-host these books, with an effort to find the "applicability." How fun!
Reading The Lord of the Rings was a really different experience from The Hobbit not only because it's got a more epic scope and deals with more POV characters, but also because I felt like it introduced me to "Mr Tolkien".
that was my first exposure to the movie and merchandise; (And of course Aragorn's there, right on the front cover, because we KNOW how much MR TOLKIEN LUUURVES him some Aragorn!)I remember being so surprised,that they made the character who was clearly meant to be Frodo so good looking, and then reading the bit where Sam and Faramir are talking and mention that Frodo kind of looks like an elf.
This is not the first edition of this book that I had read.
I had LOTR & The Hobbit long-back, in different editions, at different stages of mind.
Before the movies had been released, LOTR/H used to be our own secret garden where we could have escaped any time we liked, but now oue own images have been replaced or landscaped by Peter Jackson.
Nevertheless, if you think that G.R.R. martin is the last word in terms of writing fantastically entertaining fantasy, then read this book, and change your opinion, for ever.
Highly recommended (esp.
What can I say? I just love Orlando B… arrgh I mean Legolas! And Glorfindel! And Haldir! And Elladan and Elrohir! And all the elves.. sigh! Oh, wasnt there Aragorn, Gandalf and some hobbits too? And werent they pursued by evil orcs while wandering through the forest? I think a ring was also playing a main part…I fell instantly in love with these books when I read them for the first time ( I think I was about fifteen that time) and Im still fond of them. Yes, some people and books are destined to
I just love Orlando B… arrgh I mean Legolas!
And Glorfindel!
And Haldir!
And Elladan and Elrohir!
And all the elves..
sigh!
Oh, wasn´t there Aragorn, Gandalf and some hobbits too?
And weren´t they pursued by evil orcs while wandering through the forest?
I think a ring was also playing a main part…I fell instantly in love with these books when I read them for the first time ( I think I was about fifteen that time) and I´m still fond of them.
Yes, some people and books are destined to be together for a lifetime… nods head
Reread them over and over
See my review of Narnia, yo.
Again, amazing book. I actually had to read it through several times
This is by far one of my favorite series. There is basically everything I love in a story: fantasy, darkness, magical creatures, lessons, friendships, and adventure all in one.
This book created a generation, beautiful and fun it was the leader of fantasy until Game of Thrones. Worth the read for anyone who enjoys well crafted and fun novels
Book ReviewName : “The Lord of The Rings”Author : J.R.R. TolkienPublished date : 1937Type of book : High fantasy, AdventurePublishing information : Publisher: George Allen & UnwinPublished : 21 July 1954 and October 1955Characters : Gandalf, Aragorn, Gimli, Boromir, Bilbo Baggins, Frodo Baggins, Legolas. Theme : Friendship, peace & unity.Background: The Lord of the Rings is an epic high fantasy novel written by English philologist and University of Oxford professor J. R. R. Tolkien. The
Theme : Friendship, peace & unity.Background: The Lord of the Rings is an epic high fantasy novel written by English philologist and University of Oxford professor J.
Long before the events of the novel, the Dark Lord Sauron forges the One Ring to dominate the other Rings of Power and corrupt those who wear them: the leaders of Men, Elves and Dwarves.
He loses the Ring, his precious, and, as recounted in The Hobbit, Bilbo Baggins finds it.The 1st book “The Fellowship of the Ring", is one of the best books I’ve ever read.
That Tolkien imagined this wonderful world so long ago is amazing!
He was ahead of his time in creativity & imagination.
My beloved Harry Potter series for example is a definite distant relative to Lord of the Rings.
They always compare Harry Potter to the Twilight saga but they aren't similar in the least.
& since Harry Potter is my favorite series ever I also enjoyed LOTR.
I recommend this series to anyone wanting to defy reality for a while & enter a magical world full of brave souls full of heart & wonderful senses of humor that will bring a smile to your face every few pages.
If you like the lord of the rings movies and books you should read this.
As you can tell from the title its about the hobbits but it also has the elves, dwarfs, and many other creatures.
There is also a dragon and you get to meet gollum, the weird little creature that alway says "my precious", who at a time was also a hobbit untill he was cursed by the ring.
this story tell of bilbo baggins adventure with the dwarfs and the all powerfull gandalf the grey.
If you havnt read the lord of the rings yet i think you should the books are a lot better then the movie.
Do not trust the movie adaptations to show you how wonderful Tolkien is! I cannot stress this enough.Tolkien really did create something beautiful. We have some of the best world building in history. Moreover, I find Tolkien to be a really easy read so it’s not something you’ll be breaking a sweat over.Without a doubt Tolkien is someone you should read.
Frankly, this is the best fantasy book I ever read. The secondary world Tolkien created is believable and true to it own creation. It grips me every time I read it and this trilogy has carried me through every winter for the past 50 years!
In many ways this has the same failings as the bible: Long-winded, confusing, too much violence, comes off preachy, an inaccurate historical piece, excessively moralistic and boring. But, like the bible, able to spawn some great movies. Too much walking.
My favoritestest series ever!!! I could lose myself in Middle Earth forever. I have read this series cover to cover during every life changing, painful period of my life. Yes, I have read it seven times.
