https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/557118.The_Mystery_of_the_Talking_Skull
An easy 5 stars when I first read it at age 12. Thirty plus years later it is probably closer to a 3 star, but that averages out to a 4 star which is what I'll give it. I can remember these books as the most exciting books in the library when I was a kid. I hope my son, when he's old enough to read enjoys them as much as I did.
Well worth a read.2013 update - My original review is spot-on and I can’t really add more, except to say that Chief Reynolds has a good part, the criminal gang - Three-Finger Munger and his associates Leo The Knife and Babyface Bension - are played admirably straight and the use of Zelda the gypsy was a nice nod back to “Terror Castle” (though in that it was actually Gypsy Kate, Zelda was her comrade-in-arms).
With a nod to a real book - “Lord Chizelrigg's Missing Fortune” by Robert Barr - this has nice interplay between the lads (though Pete seems more nervous than usual), great use of locations and a good pace2017 update - Still in agreement with my previous assessments, a good story, well told with a cracking pace, very enjoyable.
Und wieder ein Fall in dem die drei nicht mal auf die Idee kommen, dass eine Frau eventuell nur ein verkleideter Mann ist.
Ich glaub nicht, dass man hier davon ausgehen soll, dass die Jungs einfach so liberal und modern sind, dass sie einfach davon ausgingen, dass es eine gender-non-conforming Frau war, mit der sie da sprachen (würde auch sonst der Rober Arthur Art der 70er nicht so recht entsprechen).
Eher, dass wir da ein Auge zudrücken sollten und so tun als würde Justus nichts merken, weil sonst der Plot nicht funktioniert.
Ansonsten ist das Buch aber recht spannend und macht Spaß.
Another typical Three Investigators mystery. The kids liked it, though I don't think it lives up to The Secret of Terror Castle. Pete is pretty wimpy, and Jupiter wasn't as sharp this time. We figured out some stuff long before he did. The gypsy angle was fun, and they were super helpful to the main characters, showing up just in time. Speaking of "just in time." One sixth grade boy said you could tell it was fiction because everything worked out way too smoothly. :)
The trunk contains a few of his belongs as well as Socrates, a skull which some claim has the ability to speak.As the boys further investigate the matter, they find that the circumstances of the Great Gulliver’s disappearance were mysterious.
Sadly – very sadly – my copy of The Mystery of the Talking Skull is missing the entire first chapter!
But the rest was loads of fun.Of the three boys only Jupe is eager to investigate the case.
He suspects that the trunk holds interest beyond what is immediately apparent.
Not a bad one, just not one of the best. This one involves an old trunk, a talking skull, some bad guys, and some stolen money. No teen boys show up this time to help, so the international helper trope was tossed out this time. Overall a decent story, but I have some much nostalgia for this series it would have to be pretty bad for me not to like it. If you enjoy the series, you'll enjoy this one as well.
I really enjoy the Three Investigator series. This one was fun. In the end the boys always discuss the case with Mr. Hitchcook, and the reader discovers how the tricks of the mystery were done. It was clever the way the crook made the skull talk, but I won't tell you....
I was fond of mysteries when I was a kid...mostly because my dad has lots of hardy boys and other books like those. This was definitely one of my favorites.
There's the elderly lady who reached the auction just moments too late to bid and offers $25 for it, and Maximilian the Magnificent who flaunts $100 and claims to want the trunk of his good friend Gulliver "for old times sake." There's also the mysterious men who keep hanging around The Jones Salvage Yard, owned by Jupiter's aunt & uncle, and who try to steal the trunk.
Once Socrates, the skull, begins talking to him, Jupiter and The Three Investigators just might find out!I've got a lot of nostalgia for this series.
I read this book a long time ago as a kid and it intrigued me how the three investigators could encounter such mysteries which I couldn't fathom myself being in but at the same time wanted to be a part of.
Childhood favourite
The purchase of a dusty, old trunk is going to take readers into a great mystery by an author who knows how to tell a tale.
Ein schöner alter Fall, der mir als Buch, wie als Hörspiel sehr viel Freude bereitet :D
One of The first book i have been Reading fr.o.m. The three investigators .It is really exiting and pure entertainment.Some different ending that i Did not expect... :)
Klasika klasický. Solídny prípad z pera majstra Troch pátračov. Menej obľúbená, ale vždy dobrá :-)
magicians, gypsies and talking skulls. Excellent mystery
Due to legal issues (with publishers and such) nothing has happened since 1990 and this may still remain the case in the future.Whilst I would love to read more books in this series, I don't think this is going to be an easy task - some books appear to be out of print and some were published in the US as part of another series.
It's a classically well told story that every young boy, and even every old boy, would still love to read today.This is an example of when books were based on pure imagination.
Also, do yourself a favor and try to find a copy with the excellent Harry Kane illustrations!There was one small additional chuckle for me when I read the books to my son recently; I'm pretty sure I caught a shout-out from Robert Arthur to one of his contemporaries, one who happens to be another favorite author of mine.
If that's not a reference to Fredric Brown...well, I'm pretty sure that it must be.
For one thing, the real Brown was also a newspaper reporter, at least for a while.It's an outstanding book, one that belongs in the collection of anyone who enjoys exciting, thought-provoking mysteries.
This was the last Three Investigators title written by series creator Robert Arthur, Jr before his untimely death due to illness in 1969.
There are a lot of comparisons that one can draw between this story and another Robert Arthur T3I classic, The Mystery of the Screaming Clock.
Both stories start small--this time with the purchase of a trunk at an auction that includes a talking skull--and then the plot grows and grows into a full blown mystery with multiple suspects, lots of twists, turns and puzzles, and a somewhat surprising ending.
The boys are also frustrated by working in the salvage yard and library when they want to go investigating.
sinopsis :"Terjual seharga satu dollar!"Trio Detektif baru saja membeli sebuah peti kuno seharga satu dollar di pelelangan barang-barang yang dianggap tak bertuan.
Tetapi sebelum mereka membawa pulang peti tersebut, seorang wanita tua berambut putih, memakai kacamata berbingkai emas, dan bertopi lebar model kuno, ingin membeli peti kuno itu dari mereka seharga 30 dollar.
Maximillian the Mystic - seorang ahli sulap - juga menghendaki peti kuno tersebut, dan menawarnya dari Trio Detektif seharaga 100 Dollar!Kenapa banyak orang yang menginginkan peti kuno itu?
Pencarian di mana uang di simpan, membawa Trio Detektif ke dalam petualangan yang mengasyikan.
The Three Investigators must solve this mystery as well as others after buying a strange magician's trunk leads them on a dangerous quest for lost bank loot.
a cryptic note found in the trunk leads the investigators to a fortune teller who gives them a veiled warning.
The question that Jupiter Jones must answer is the whereabouts of the lost loot.
The skull is one of many leads in this concisely written boy's mystery.
I wonder whether freeways were widely known when this book was written in 1969?
In any case, there is nothing supernatural in this book as Jupiter and the "skull" saves the day!
It is a good book it's about a kid and his friends going to a auction that was selling random trunks that was left at a hotel .
That's where it happens a old trunk came up and no one bid on it but then one of the three kids Jupiter or nicked named jup said ill pay a dollar for it so he got it .
Once he had a better look he saw the engraved name The Great Gulliver.Gulliver friend Spike left a clue to where a large sum of stolen money is in the trunk before Spike passed away.
What makes them fun is trying to solve the mystery along with the three familiar characters.
In this book, though, the characters were not themselves.
And Jupiter, the inquisitive never-say-die leader, in this book repeatedly decides that they can investigate no further, that they should give up, and that the case is beyond them.
That's not Jupiter Jones at all!
Also, at least part of the mystery was obvious.
That wouldn't bother me in a kid's book, except that it would have been obvious to the characters too if they'd shown a reasonable degree of curiosity.
I read many of the Three Investigators book when I was a kid, so when my sister gave me this one because of the appropriate title and awesome cover art, I decided to give it a read.
It turns out it's one I actually read back in the day, though I only remembered just the faintest outline of it.
One thing I didn't remember was that the books were actually "introduced" by Alfred Hitchcock and even included him as a character!
Still I imagine pre-teens would appreciate the fun & danger this group of precocious investigators get up to in and out of their junkyard clubhouse.
The last Robert Arthur book, this has a good strong opening and maintains a cracking pace throughout.
Staying close to Rocky Beach, the regular cast of characters all have parts to play and there’s a nice, nostalgic atmosphere to the whole thing.
Jupiter buys a magician’s trunk at auction and discovers it contains a skull that talks and a letter which seems to lead towards a stash of stolen money.
There’s also a nice touch, where Arthur bemoans the fact that old neighbourhoods are being torn down to make way for yet more freeways.
well, it was a kid's book.
I knew.
but I read this because I had an unknown fascination about this series, I heard lots about this.
I think kids will find it really enjoyable.[SPOILER ALERT] Anyway while reading this the character PETE really irritated me.
And stamp deduction of the letter of Spike Neely and its misleading, identity of Zelda the gypsy, explanation of talking skull's talking trick are certainly capable of making kid's amazed.p.s: I am not rating this because rating of a kid's book by an adult from his point of view will be unfair and inappropriate, I think.
I read this book many, many years ago, back when I was in the fifth grade.
Even after all these years, it was still fun and enjoyable to read.
Much like the Scooby-Doo cartoons of the day, the mystery wasn't all that mysterious to the older reader, but a younger reader will still enjoy it.
That's not say an adult wouldn't like it, but it was written for a younger audience.
If you have children this might be a good book for you to read with your children.
Check it out, you just may like it.
I have to re-read this.It was one of my favourites as a kid.
Pinjam punya ponakan, ponakan minjam di perpus sekolahnya. Aah ~ brasa nostalgic zaman-zaman SD/SMP, buku trio detektif selalu bikin aku senang & tegang bacanya.Kali ini petualangan Jupe, Pete & Bob memecahkan rahasia peti kuno kepunyaan seorang pesulap terkenal. Berawal dari peti kuno tersebut mereka diincar banyak orang yang juga menginginkan peti kuno tadi. Didalam peti kuno mereka menemukan tengkorak yang bersuara sampai dengan surat dari seorang narapidana.
I decided to read this book because it looked interesting. my favourite character in this book is jupe/ Jupiter because he never gave up and kept thinking of new ideas all the time and from this I learnt to never give and always keep thinking even if it is tough. my favourite quote from this book was "that awful thing! do you know what it just did? IT SAID 'BOO!' 'TO ME'." because it was really funny to read. on the bingo board it is a book published before 1980.
