https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/62016.Knight_of_Shadows
Merlin continues to search for his father, Corwin, and Mask, the mysterious usurper of the Keep of Four Worlds who is someone from Merlin's past, and Coral, Oberon's illegitimate child who dissappeared after walking the Pattern in the previous book.
All of the Broken Patterns and Pattern Ghosts are over-explaining the Pattern and destroying some of its mystery.
And when is Merlin going to walk the Pattern Corwin wove at the end of the last Amber saga?So many questions and I have a feeling not all of them will be answered in book ten.
Po mom mišljenju,najslabija knjiga Hronika Ambera.Baš sam je sa naporom čitala,posebno središnji deo.Nadam se da me poslednja knjiga neće razočarati.
Some say the second Amer Series focusing on Merlin was not as good as the original. I tend to disagree. I liked the second series for different reasons than the first. Corwin was more of a fighter, Merlin a magic-user. I enjoyed Zelazny's detailed descriptions of how Merlin cast spells. I enjoyed the humor in the second series more than in the first. Following the convoluted plot and intrigues and mystery was also very entertaining.
Ended better than it started. Didn't enjoy the quest any more than Merle did. Got better once the normal pace resumed.
http://www.fantasyliterature.com/revi...
Magical AI has more to do in this volume and for me that's always a good thing. Onward to the the exciting conclusion.
Summary review: Not my favorite of the series for sure, and not even my favorite of the Merlin cycle - seemed oddly rushed, which was something Zelazny had avoided previously, despite the shorter format of the books. I enjoyed it, as I have with all books in the series, but I sure didn't love it.
Penultimate of the Merlin books and one of the weaker entries. Large portions of it are taken up by an admittedly allegorical contest that, while sparking some interesting imagery, largely consists of Merlin running on a set of rails. The one really bright spark is a confrontation in the halls of Amber that does some serious damage to the local architecture. Adequate for what it is, but not Zelazny's best effort.
So far, the best book! I loved it!
In fact, now that I think about it, though Merlin's lengthy walk in the place between shadows did not add much directly to the story at large, his interactions with the Pattern-Ghosts (including a not-so-evil Jurt and an indignant Oberon!) were very interesting.All in all, I feel this edition of the book is much stronger than some of the others, even with the incest and rat's nest of plot lines, precisely because it plays to the characters, which I think are Zelazny's strong suit in this series.
ყველაზე სუსტი წიგნი სერიაში... ან შეიძლება უკვე მომგეზრდა... ან საერთოდ ჰოლივუდური ზღაპრები მომბეზრდა. შეიძლება ზელაზნისაც მობეზრდა. ზოგადად მერლინის სერია პრინციპში ფაქტიურად კორვინის სერიის ანალოგია, გლობალურად არაა დიდი სხვაობა ძირითად თემებში
I didn't care for this 9th book in the Amber series.Which is suprising because I really like books with a lot action, and lots of short dialog.
Next an explaination from Jarsa that she trained Julia, who Merlin thought had persihed previously, to kill Merlin.
Already the storyline is getting pretty convuluted.Instead of a brief respite at Amber, Merlin decides with the help of Mandor and Jarsa to be sent via trump card to the lost Coral.
Instead Merlin is tranported to some weird place between shadows between Amber and Choas.
Really pasted together effort.Hopefully the final novel in the Amber series Prince of Chaos will make it all worth while!
One of the problems with reading a series of books in rapid succession is that you run out of things to say if your planing on reviewing it.Like other in the series this book picks up pretty much where the last one left off, and often makes the series appear less as a sequence of seperate books, but one book that was chopped up into books for publishing reasons.
Like many series that are written over a span of time you look back at the earlier works with knowledge gained in the new works and someimes it can make you question whether accepting this new information invalidates your enjoyment of the old stuff.

Even though books 6-10 are lumped in as part of the Chronicles of Amber, I feel that it's really a second series. It's about Merlin (Corwin's son). Merlin is from Chaos due to his mother being from there. One of the things I didn't like about the second series is that lots of people can shadow walk. It used to be only the princes and princesses of Amber can do it. Now it seems like everybody can. It's not so special after all.
This book was a shallow disconnected mess that was very hard to stay interested in. The first half of the Amber books had its ups and downs in quality and entertainment, but I really feel like they've steadily gone downhill the last few installments. #9 was the kind of book that could kill a series. However, since I have invested the time into the first eight, and there is only one more to go in the 10 book series, I will finish it out nevertheless.
The nadir of the Amber chronicles.
The centerpiece of Knight of Shadows is Merlin's journey between the Shadows, with a series of tasks as he is harassed by ghosts sent by the two guiding powers of Amber and Chaos: the Pattern and the Logrus.
There is intrigue, there are the twists and turns of the political infighting amongst the inhabitants of Amber and Chaos, and there are lots of imaginative frills and fringes to divert the reader.And this is the main problem with the series: if the premise is that anything is possible in Shadow, then there is nothing to focus the plot.
Every chapter reveals some new magical power or location or character, and it has reached a saturation point.
Partea a doua a seriei, dedicată lui Merlin, fiul lui Corwin, nu este la fel de reușită ca prima parte. Un număr impresionant de pagini sunt pură alegorie, texte aproape onirice, a căror rol în ansamblul volumelor este neclar, mai ales că se putea scurta foarte mult, esența rămânând neschimbată. Însă, după ce iese din zona dintre fronturile celor două puteri, acțiunea curge și am regăsit plăcerea de a citi un fantasy bun. Spre final câteva întorsături de situație pregătesc ultimul volum din serie.
Well the first four star book in the series. In a way it didn't seem part of the series as eighty per cent of the plot was completely self contained. The battle between the pattern and the logrus was an interesting new twist. Once again there was a tendency on the authors parts to create an ability or object of power two minutes before merlin needed it. Not good technique.
Merlin gets jerked around by mysteriously forces and does silly things for an entire book. An aside: Corridor of Mirrors? Why retcon something new and dumb in book 9? Why not just have the scene take place in Tir-na Nog'th?
Easily the weakest book in the set. But as it is the 9th book in a 10 book series, you've go to slog thru it to get to the conclusion.
4.5 stars.
A solid continuation of the Merlin arch in the Chronicles of Amber with minor annoyances throughout. I appreciated the increased level of action in this one.
The sex scene was just odd and uncomfortable. It wasn’t necessary to facilitate the story. If that would have been left out, I would have been more inclined to give 3 stars.
Merlin is trapped in a series os seriously trippy shadows and encounters even more magic.
Мабуть мені варто писати відгук на все п'ятикнижжя, бо кожна окрема частина по-своєму прохідна, мов епізод захопливого серіалу (а знімати не планують, нє?). І цей "епізод" так само на висоті, хоч кількість перепетій (+сюру) на такий короткий проміжок часу трохи бентежить. Ghostwheel і Frakir - це любов! :)
As the Merlin Cycle proceeds, the books become more rambling and etiolated, and the first two-thirds of this one are of such poor quality and content (view spoiler)[- a grey world which exists between Shadow, between the Pattern and the Logrus, where only 'holographic' entities and objects can exist, where topography is barren if indeed extant, curtailed by nothingness, like the unknown void of the limits of a limited imagination - and, oh!, I'm describing the seeming exhaustion of the series, of its ideas, its delivery, and its author, not the (lack of) world building of the 'novel' -  (hide spoiler)]that, even though thematically intentional, this significant chunk is so bad, so tedious, so etiolated, and so lacking in substance, tension, interest, meaningful dialogue, action, character, and, most of all, colour, that it should have been entirely edited and truncated for publication (like this paragraph).Yet, it is transparent (as the text of this book) that the Amber series, which started with the 5 books of the Corwin cycle, was something new, fresh, vibrant, with wonderful characters and exceptional world-building.
ძველი პერსონაჟების კამეოებმა და გრეისვანდირმა გაასწორეს. ერთ-ორი კი ექშენ სცენაც იყო მაგრამ სტაბილურად საშუალო დონეა.
Esse é o termo para viagens cheias de alegorias, símbolos e o escambau, onde o protagonista confronta as partes mais profundas de seu inconsciente para descobrir algo sobre si mesmo.Mas como essa jornada de visão se passa no multiverso piração de Amber, as visões são, por assim dizer, "verdadeiras" e parte de um duelo cósmico entre dois polos da realidade do cenário da saga.Zelazny desenvolve sua habilidade de tramar conflitos e tramas paralelas e paranóicas que se cruzam de maneiras bem selvagens e insesperadas.O nível de magia altíssimo da saga, é elevado ao cubo nesse episódio, com realidades surgindo e desaparecendo, forças cósmicas envolvidas em conquistar o apoio do protagonista.E no meio disso tudo, Merlin, o mago doidimais, vai traçando seu caminho com humor, cinismo, e uma atitude bem de anti-herói trapaceiro!O livro é de 1989, e de lá para cá, deu para notar a imensa influência na fantasia dos anos 90, do estilo "largadão" do Zelazny de lidar com tramas cósmicas usando de humor, tiradas sardônicas, e reviravoltas sem noção.
