https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/114152.Finding_the_Dream
Finding the Dream is the 3rd and final book in Nora Robert’s Dream Trilogy. What a wonderful conclusion to the fabulous Templeton Family Saga.Laura Templeton’s dream of love and family were shattered by her adulterous husband that she divorced, leaving her and her two daughters heartbroken.Under the façade of being happy and content with her life, is a woman struggling financially and emotionally.  Into her life enters Michael Fury, her brother’s friend and who she knew when they were younger, i
I liked seeing the two struggling to accept that the feelings they have for each other will overcome all the obstacles they believe lie between them.We get to see more of Margo and Kate and the Templeton family and loved how things have progressed since the first book.
A touching and uplifting story, with the two characters that I loved the most in this series – Michael & Laura.Nora Roberts continues to amaze me with her incredible talent not only at story-telling but with her ability to write words like she does.
It's Nora so of course the characters are well developed and the story is flawless.
It's been two years since Laura caught her husband with his secretary.
Not wanting to trade on her name, Laura is holding down two part time jobs while she tries to keep what's left of her family running smoothly.
Of course she is still in better shape financially than a vast number of divorced women whose husbands cleared a out their accounts before he left.
Her friends want her to start dating again.
Enter a handsome bad boy from her past who wants to rent her stables for his horses.
Excellent story!
Laura was the goodness personified, the young girl in love, who got married at eighteen thinking it would be forever.
Laura kept herself busy to get through her fail marriage but even if she had the time for romance, she's not ready to accept the attraction between her and Michael and prefer to think it's annoying.
Can Laura put reason aside to follow her heart's new dreams ?Every time I reread this series, I can never tell which book I prefer between this one and the first one, which is a pretty great dilemma, don't you think ?
wheyher she revealed her financial predicament to her family was not clear but i guess it was obvious then michael enters her life whom she knew as a schoolgirl.
his home and stables had been washed away in a mudslide and her brother josh asks her to rent out the stables which she reluctantly agrees to she soon starts falling under his spell as do her daughters and her 2 friends, margo and katie, egg her on add to this the mysterious seraphina who committed suicide and has left her dowry somewhere which they never give up searching for will michael and laura survive when they have such different backgrounds?
Finding The Dream is the last book in Nora Roberts' Dream Trilogy and it was probably the best book of the three.
Michael awakened in her, the sexuality she never knew she had in her marriage to Peter Ridgeway and Laura gave Michael the family he always longed for.Sure there a struggles and one near tragedy, but the coming together of these two really was a perfect ending for this set of books.I loved the interweaving of characters and their lives and friendships.
By the end of this book you really felt like Margo, Kate, Laura, Josh, Byron and Michael not to mention the other characters were all family.
Very satisfying finale to the Dream triolgy!It's rare when one of the books in a Nora trilogy stands out and is just better and more substantial than the others (especially when they're all so good as in this trilogy), but Finding the Dream stood out as the best, well IMO.
I liked how he balanced being supportive of Laura finding her way in her career and business working at Templeton and Pretenses while encouraging her to let others help when it's all too much.
As with most of Nora trilogies, there isn't much in the way of drama or suspense (look to the stand alone books for that), but a sweet satisfying tale of self discovery and finding love and family and Happily Ever After.
I liked the climax of the book much more then the artificial fights that served as the only real hurdles for the other couples to get over.
Except for a couple of times, all of Laura and Michael's interactions were at home, which makes me wonder how they are going to function in real life after they're married.
(and no the Valentines dance didn't count as they weren't actually together yet) The other thing that disappointed me was that I was sure this would be the book and that Michael would be the man to physically punch or in some other way beat Peter Ridgeway, but I guess they needed to be more civilized then that.
Not that I didn't enjoy the other characters (Margo, Kate, Josh), I just didn't really enjoy the first two books in which they starred.
This one was by far the best of the three, with a story that didn't involve exotic 1 percent-er issues like a supermodel drug scandal or an embezzlement case.
Instead, Laura Templeton gets cheated on - simple, (all too) common, not far fetched - and it throws her world in a tailspin.
With a little help from her friends, and a little more than just help from her brother Josh's friend, Mick, Laura pieces her life back together.

Um excelente romance e uma trilogia que nos faz sonhar! https://momentosdemagia.wordpress.com...
3.5 stars.I'm glad that Michael Fury (what a name!) is so different to Josh and Byron from the previous books. Also, Laura really is a tough lady beneath that polished exterior. This has been an enjoyable re-visit of one of NR's iconic trilogies.
ok ok Vuelvo a mi punto de que las Sagas de esta escritora llegan a ser muy similares cuidado y no iguales, esta misma historia la e leído múltiples veces en sus libros como ya e dicho en la sinopsis del libro 1.En este caso tenemos el énfasis de la "diferencia de clases sociales" ella es heredera de un imperio hotelero, divorciada, el actualmente se dedica a criar caballos, fue mercenario, doble de acción, conductor de autos de formula 1, Marine, enserio enserio no se como este personaje tienen tantas carreras y es bastante joven.Todo en este libro me ha parecido súper forzado la interacción entre los principales, la historia de ella la conocemos desde el libro 1 la situación en la que la engaña el esposo, se lleve todo el dinero que ella ahorro y tenia para el futuro de sus hijas y que la familia no ayude en nada porque VAMOS A RESPETAR SUS DESEOS!!!!
Of course, the other reason was Laura and Michael relationship: the bad-boy that turns her life upside down, wins the love of her children and, in the end, also stoles her own heart!Now, the reason I don't like it all that much anymore is because now, when I think about the story, it seems kind of detached from reality; yes, Laura fights for everything she gets but, in the end everything is pitch-perfect: No character has a flaw, her children kind of forget their father and are happy with a substitute, and so on.
I can't seem to find the right words to express my love for the "Dream" trilogy, so I'll just say if you don't read it you're doing yourself a great injustice. I never thought I would find another series like Nora's "Born In" trilogy, but I did, and I have to say that I enjoyed this one more. I'm once again so very sad that I will never be able to read these books again for the very first time. Keep dreaming!!!
Amazing book! Sooo perfect! I'm in love with Laura and Michael. And I love her childrens - Ali and Kayla are sooo cute!
Este livro foi-me oferecido por uma amiga no Natal, e acertou em cheio.Foi a minha primeira leitura desta autora e desconhecia a sua escrita, já tinha ouvido falar bem dela e dos seus livros, mas nunca calhou ler algo dela.Gostei bastante da história e do desenrolar da mesma - dos preconceitos existentes na sociedade, o casamento e o divórcio, partilha dos filhos, nascimento de um novo amor.
Questões cada vez mais importantes da sociedade atual, por serem assuntos muito presentes.Quando a história de centra na personagem principal - Laura - uma menina rica, de bem com a vida e com um futuro promissor, apaixona-se com 18 anos e a sua vida dá uma volta de 180º.
Finding the dream by Nora Roberts really got to me somehow more than the previous 2. Towards the end I was in tears. It takes a lot to get me to do that!! I loved this book and trilogy!! One of those I hated it to end. Absolutely 5 stars!!
Nora Roberts will always be my go-to to pull me back if I'm in a reading slump. You always know what the ending will be, but you don't care. It's the journey to the end of her books, and to the end of her trilogies that make it worthwhile. Kate and Laura were my favorites in this trilogy.
In fact, I think this one could have been absolutely perfect had there not been some issues that the author didn't quite address/resolve or that didn't quite make sense...Few issues I had with the book:- I was not sure why Laura let Peter STEAL her money and take money away from her daughters, so that now she has to work two jobs and practically neglect herself and her kids...
In my opinion, this complex problem was brushed away by the author and the reader is told that just the fact that they love each other is enough for them to overcome such a huge obstacle - which is often just NOT the case in real life.
Not really.Out of the blue, her brother, Josh requests a favour of her: can she rent stable space to Mick Fury (a childhood friend) for a while?
Because he lost his in a landslide.Laura says yes, and meets Mick Fury, and the attraction is instantenous.
Mick is mad, bad and dangerous to know, and Laura finds herself swept up in him, but has to deal with her two girls and the emotional storm clouds that threaten to gather.I recommend this book because it's a great basic, bread-and-butter romance.
Finding the Dream is the final book of the Dream Trilogy and is a very apt title for Laura’s story.Laura Templeton, daughter of the Templeton hospitality empire, dreamed of having a fairytale life, the perfect husband, wonderful children, and a beautiful home.
She thought she had found it at eighteen with Peter Ridgeway.
Now at age thirty, she is still trying to bring some stability back to her and her daughter’s lives.Enter Michael Fury, a childhood friend of Laura’s brother.
He left the area to exorcise his demons but now he is back and trying to bring some stability to his own life.
This the last book of the "Dream trilogy" was the best. Laura was believable in her attempt to get her life back together after a nasty divorce. Her husband cheated on her, she actually caught them "in flagrante". After that ordeal she, naturally, got a little wary of men.Michael dont have high thoughts of him self. He ran away at 18 after domestic violence and worked his way through the seven seas, as a mercenary, a stuntman and finally breeding horses. Fate brings him to the Tempelton estate w
Laura was believable in her attempt to get her life back together after a nasty divorce.
Fate brings him to the Tempelton estate where he rents the stables and get his eyes on Laura.Michael and Laura´s story is funny, sad, sexy and very sweet.
I love the scene where Michael promise to take Laura´s two girls to school the first time.
It´s diamonds here and expensive champagne there.
And who wants to mix white chocolate with popcorn and champagne?
They shouldn´t move to new homes until they are 12 weeks old.
But in this book Laura buys two kittens only 6 weeks old.
But they were thoroughly loved.
Finding the Dream by Nora Roberts was a very good book.
This is the third of the trilogy and I read it because I didn’t feel like digging for the other two.
Nora Roberts really knows how to captivate a reader.
Laura finding her true love could not have ended this particular trilogy any better.
The characters and scene are so captivating that the book stands alone and is a quick, entertaining, satisfying read.
When you are through with the book you feel as though these three women are now your best friends.
I liked Laura a lot and I'm happy that she not only managed to get her life back on track, but that she and her daughters found happiness again after her ex-husband betrayed them.
I also liked Michael.
Seeing them falling for each other and building a new family without even realizing it at first was great.
They really are a family and it was nice to see how close they all are.
I also liked that we got a glimpse into the relationship between Laura's parents and that we finally learned more about Seraphina's treasure.

I am not going to review every Nora Roberts book that I have read in the past because she is quite prolific and it would get redundant and I honestly cannot remember all the plots.
I think I have read every one of her books to date because despite the cheesy nature, the ending is always happy and the read is easy.
Frankly, I like these books and will continue to read each one that comes out.
I am going to post this same review for each of her books that I have read in the past.
This book is absolutely amazing.
It has a very good story line and never lacks detail.It follows Laura Templeton in her journey through life.
Already having gone through a painful (and expensive) divorce, Laura has a lot on her plate.
She is raising two adolescent girls along with managing a hotel.
She has so much on her shoulders and although she has many helpful people in her life, she still feels alone.On top of this, her brother Josh convinces her to have their family friend Michael Fury stay in her stables.
Throughout this book, Laura overcomes her demons and learns how to love.
É o último livro desta triologia e que vou sentir saudades. Depois de termos lido a história sobre a Margo e a Kate, resta-nos a Laura, que no segundo volume está a divorciar-se devido à infidelidade do marido e tendo nos seus cuidados duas filhas.Acaba por ser a amizade de Margo e Kate que ajudam a voltar a gostar de si mesma mas não só. Adorei!!! Foi uma grande aventura ter começado a ler os livros da Nora Roberts mas adorei a envolvência das personagens e o espírito de amizade que existiu entre as três personagens principais.http://aviciadadoslivros.blogspot.pt/...
Dit vond ik de beste van de drie. Hoe laura haar leven langzaam aan weer opbouwt na haar scheiding. dat ze leert om weer te genieten van het leven en dat niet al haar dromen stuk zijn. De ruzies met een beginnende tiener waren heel herkenbaar. ik genoot van de rustheid dat ze steeds uitstraalde en van het feit dat ' badboy' michael haar hartje weer vlugger deed kloppen. zo zie je maar dat liefde verborgen zit in ieder hoekje en dat je het niet mag opgeven.
My favorite in the series. It has the good, responsible woman and the bad boy. What girl doesn't want the bad boy, even if they won't admit it out loud?I love how the series came together. Great book!
