https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30688435-exit-west
“When we migrate, we murder from our lives those we leave behind.” I thought this book was quietly brutal. And quietly beautiful, as well.If you've come here looking for magical realism, I would advise against it. Exit West contains only the barest of fantastical elements - essentially, metaphorical doors or portals that symbolize the migrant experience. This is not explored in any depth and serves only to propel the characters from their unnamed homeland to Greece, then London, then America.Ex
This is not explored in any depth and serves only to propel the characters from their unnamed homeland to Greece, then London, then America.Exit West is really about the relationship between the young couple, Saeed and Nadia, and how their experiences as migrants in foreign countries affects who they are and what they need.
It's subtle and exquisitely bittersweet.The book starts in a country in the middle of political turmoil.
Any country that forces its people to try to seek out a better life elsewhere.

The novel begins with Nadia and Saeed, a couple living in an unnamed Middle-Eastern city.
If the novel were just the couple and their fight to live in their city, then what a wonderful book it would have been.
For some unknown reason, Hamid has these magical doors pop up all around the world.
So I read on.It is inevitable that our couple is shown to one of these doors and are whisked away from their city and their lives.
The second they step foot into the magical door is when the novel goes from fairly good to absolute shit.
Sam, I have you to thank for this one."In a city swollen by refugees but still mostly at peace, or at least not yet openly at war, a young man met a young woman in a classroom and did not speak to her."So begins Mohsin Hamid's extraordinary new novel,  Exit West . At once both sharply current and dreamily magical, this book is social commentary, fantasy, and an emotion-laded look at how we crave connection even in the most chaotic, the bleakest of times.While reading this book, all I could think
's plot becomes a little dreamier, but still equally present and powerful, as it not only examines the effects strife, stress, and constant fear and suspicion have on a relationship, but it's also a pointed look at the refugee experience, and how people in the same situation can treat each other.This book worked for me on so many levels.
Very fascinatingly, I think I would have liked this book more if I had never read the synopsis.
The synopsis makes it sound like we're going to have two lovers who are in a city that is becoming a war zone and then discover magical doors that lead them far away and it's hard but they have each other.
His story of these refugees, and refugees from all over the world, actually exposed me to a new way of thinking.
I think reading this book made me a better person.
You know how people often say that they read books because they want to learn about new perspectives?
They seek ways to leave, hire a coyote who is able to find doors, some literal but in this case fantastical, pay him, try to convince Saeed's father to come with, the only viable parent between the two, but he refuses, His dead wife is buried here, and this is his home.
Although the description describes this as a bittersweet love story, it is not written emotionally, rather narrated by a omnipresent presence, in a rather matter of fact way.
The situation though is universal, important and timely and so it could be said that telling the story this way lets the reader form his or her own opinions.
2.5 stars What started out to be a gorgeously haunting look at life in a Middle East city at the brink of civil war turned ponderous and perplexing by the end of Mohsin Hamid's slim novel  Exit West.
And that's when the bottom falls out for me, when the hyperrealism of the couple's plight, so vividly and convincingly displayed by Hamid in the first half of the novel, takes a bizarre CS Lewis-ian turn toward  unreality (in a way, reminiscent of Cora's flight north from the slave hunter in  The Underground Railroad), using scattered, secret doors as portals for Saeed's and Nadia's means for escape.
Click here to watch a video review of this book on my channel, From Beginning to Bookend.
It took me a while to write a review due to a combination of hectic days at work and a new kitty at home (our first one).
Also, I was lucky to read the much better Home Fire, another book by A Pakistani writer nominated for the Booker prize.
The book has as center theme the plight of being a refugee and I believe the relevance of the subject in today’s world is what makes the short novel so successful.
I did enjoy how the book was written and constructed but the somewhat forced smartness made me detached to the story.
I enjoyed the writing although sometimes I felt it was too forced.
Exit West had the potential to be the greatest novel published in the last ten years.
I don’t say such things liberally; it really did have a certain power due to it being so politically conscious, though somehow it failed to deliver what it could have done.Let us rewind a little.
It would have been far more effective if when Nadia and Saeed finally exited west, they were met with all the issues surrounding immigration and refugees.
And to quote the author to illustrate my point: “When we migrate, we murder from our lives those we leave behind.”When the characters migrated, Hamid murdered the potential of this novel leaving it behind in the dust.
Saeed and Nadia are contemporary young adults who come together "in a city swollen by refugees but still mostly at peace, or at least not yet by war".
So if there is such a thing as national identity and it’s linked to cultural identity – both essentially dubious notions in my view otherwise why would I find myself relating much more to a Somalian jewellery designer than the neighbours of my parents?
There’s a distinction between Hamid’s two central characters, Nadia and Saeed: she is open to change, he, more the tourist in mindset, far less so.
It was like the ideas of this book left his two central characters behind.
Think quantum theory.The lifetime Hamid describes in this novel feels like it could be now and also a long time in the future: a Muslim country torn apart, population movement via smugglers, a Greek island, Europe.
Borders are no more and groups of people try to decide the best way to govern, to protect, to provide.In one of the narrative shifts, Hamid points to a woman of advanced years and Asian descent living in Palo Alto.
I ended up wondering if a lot of the praise it’s received has more to do with its subject matter than its quality as a novel.Its subject matter is the plight of refugees – without question one of the most potentially moving and pertinent stories offered by the world we live in.
Saeed and Nadia both begin the novel as fascinating characters.
Because the main problem I had with this novel is that Saeed and Nadia don’t really develop as characters throughout the novel, they never became vivid and living to me, their plight never moved me.
Exit West Mohsin Hamid - The AuthorWe are all migrants through timeMoshin Hamid - Exit West***********************************************Literature fulfills many roles in our lives. We read to learn about a certain topic, to develop a deeper sense of empathy, in search of enlightenment or just as a pure source of escapism. In Exit West, author Mohsin Hamid pursues a highly idealistic but worthy goal, namely, to give us a story that regards our planet's geography, its borders, and resources in a
It is here that Hamid inserts a rather unconventional literary device: mysterious “doors”, which can be used as portals to travel from country to country, begin to appear everywhere, effectively allowing people to become instant immigrants.When I first heard the author describing these "magical" doors, the idea sounded so farfetched that I wondered if it might get in the way of the story.
The next part of Exit West which covers the "arrival" part of the journey, follows Nadia and Saeed's life as refugees.
The surreal/real mix is echoed in Hamid's clever mingling of classicism and the contemporary - EXIT WEST is a firm rebuke to those who argue that novels can't incorporate modern technology without feeling overly experimental.
This is not a criticism, exactly, but it's a clear choice by Hamid to name and map the Western world while consigning Nadia and Saeed to Anytown, and I sometimes felt the frustration of that vagueness.
I'm not complaining about the plot-point, exactly, but the novel's sparseness makes certain second-half maneuvers feel schematic in comparison to the rich world of the beginning.I won't spoil the ending, but it works too.
For when we migrate, we murder from our lives those we leave behind.  Though a thin slip of a novel, Exit West packs a powerful punch cloaked subtly in a quiet but dynamic tale of migration, told in exquisite yet plain language that is thought provoking and soothing and enraging and just plain beautiful. Nadia and Saeed of a unnamed nation are the focal points, and we follow their journey through young love in a country on the precipice of civil war, to unsteady allies as unwanted refugees in l
His description of Saeed praying is very illustrative of his overall skill:  When he prayed he touched his parents, who could not otherwise be touched, and he touched a feeling that we are all children who lose our parents, all of us, every man and woman and boy and girl, and we too will be lost by those who come after us and love us, and this loss unites humanity, unites every human being, the temporary nature of our being-ness, and our shared sorrow, the heartache we each carry and yet too often refuse to acknowledge in one another, and out of this Saeed felt it might be possible in the face of death, to believe in humanity’s potential for building a better world… Hamid does allow his characters to become as important as his larger ideas and themes, and I followed with trepidation the acquaintance, affection, alienation and estrangement of Nadia and Saeed as they encounter sectarian war, death, hunger, fear, refugee camps, the anger and kindness of strangers on their journey of migration.
In the scene in which the real telescope is mentioned, the main character is using it to look at Mars, the second-nearest planet, its features indistinct, the colour of a sunset after a dust storm.
I would have forgotten them too except that the more of Hamid’s story I read, the more I felt I was viewing it from far away rather than close up.
Edit - rounded down stars from 4 to 33.5 Stars (remains the same) ”In a city swollen by refugees but still mostly at peace or at least not yet openly at war, a young man met a young woman in a classroom and did not speak for her. For many days.” In public, Nadia is always dressed in a flowing black robe, covering every inch of her from her neck to her toes. Saeed has a shadow of a beard, stubble, which he meticulously maintains. They are studying corporate identity and product branding, despite
They are studying corporate identity and product branding, despite the feeling of impending war.
More time passes, and they feel the need to find a place where they can live without this never-ending fear.
“…and so by making the promise he demanded she make she was in a sense killing him, but that is the way of things, for when we migrate, we murder from our lives those we leave behind.”
I kept hoping there was something that would live up to my expectations, and eventually, it did.
Hamid's novels seem to produce extreme reactions.
I am in the camp that finds his writing, his perspective, his understanding of human nature, of history, of lovers, of life, and his run-on sentences (see what I did there?) to be magical.
Almost no one talks about it.
On the other hand, everyone read and talks about The Reluctant Fundamentalist, a novel I found to be fine, but not special.
It is about young people, about openness to the new, about the struggle to forge a new life in a new place, about the response of natives to later arrivals.
This is a brilliant and moving read from Mohsin Hamid which provides a critically imperative and timely novel of the urgency of contemporary global issues with the rising tide of displaced refugees and migrants.
Narrated by a dispassionate observer, this is a story of war, identity, adapting, love, loss, sacrifice, and what it is to be a traumatised refugee amidst the hostility that swamps them in the countries in which they harbour elusive hopes of safety and security.The couple go through numerous doors which includes visits to London and San Francisco in California where a large tent city has grown.
In fall-into-prose, Hamid tells a love story between two refugees, where doors offer escape from their war-torn country.
____________________Saeed and Nadia, a young couple keeping their relationship secret, escape their war-torn South Asian country (We are never told where exactly they’re from) through mystical doors that transport migrants from safe place to safe place.
In a world taken by storm my war and subsequent immigration, Hamid beautifully and poignantly tells us the course Saeed and Nadia’s relationship takes as they move across the globe.— Deepali Agarwalfrom The Best Books We Read In September 2016: http://bookriot.com/2016/10/03/riot-r...
The things we’ve lived through, our experiences, coalesce and form us into who we are, shaping the basis of what we might become."We are all migrants through time."Windows and doors feature heavily in Exit West.
It broke my heart, and I think will go a long way toward making me a better, more compassionate person.In addition to the wonderful social commentary, Exit West is also a love story of the highest caliber, a magically real fairy tale, unafraid to shy away from the realities of love, loss, and the changes quickened or postponed by devastating circumstances.
and I was transfixed almost instantly with that first chapter, especially once the dynamic Nadia was introduced into my life:“When Saeed and Nadia finally had coffee together in the cafeteria, which happened the following week, after the very next session of their class, Saeed asked her about her conservative and virtually all-concealing black robe.“If you don’t pray,” he said, lowering his voice, “why do you wear it?”They were sitting at a table for two by a window, overlooking snarled traffic on the street below.
My mind is full to overflowing with thoughts about this book.
It’s a beautifully written book, although at times it’s overwhelming.
And there were parts of it that just totally confused me.
The intermittent chapters that take us elsewhere and introduce us to different characters were confusing for me.
I found I needed to take time with this book, to ponder the thoughts it brought up with me.
Nadia and Saeed are fully drawn, three dimensional characters.
I loved how their relationship is described and how it evolves.
I was heavily highlighting the parts of the book that dealt with their relationship.
I loved the dynamic and illustration where Saeed fought for celibacy outside marriage and Nadia was the open-minded person, challenging the controlling restrictions of religion, morals and society.The city they live in gradually escalates into conflict forcing Nadia to move in with Saeed and his father for safety.
they looked at each other, for a long, long time, any gesture seeming inadequate, and in silence, Nadia turned and walked away into a misty drizzle, and her raw face was wet and alive.” (hide spoiler)]The story had a strange end, as both the relationship between Saeed and Nadia, and the refugee crisis both seem to run out of pace.
And this is where that book falls for me.I was so looking forward to this one and grabbed the audio.
But I kept pushing as I really wanted to like this one (forced reading never ends up a favorite of anyones) and I'm going to hear the author speak about this book later this year.
Again, chalking this one up to the audio.I'm going right down the middle with my rating.
I am going to give the print version a shot after I hear the author speak.
Perhaps without the frustration of the audio, the print will flow better for me.

I thought this focus worked really well and made this story something really special.He has a unique way of structuring his sentences that I found beyond brilliant.
But I think that is ok - because while their story humanizes the book, it is both universal and personal in a way that kind of renders the characters irrelevant in the broader scope of the work.First sentence: "In a city swollen by refugees but still mostly at peace, or at least not yet openly at war, a young man met a young woman in a classroom and did not speak with her."
That's what I felt about this book, the potential was limitless..
the sky was the limit for this novel, yet it felt short...
It's political It's sad It's a post Brexit world There are doors and gaps and different countries and two people in love Saeed and Nadia ...
The male character was very different from the female and the female who was assertive and independent in the past, just vanished slowly and become less independent and more average .
I was debating between 3 and 4 starts for this novel but this one is getting a 3 stars.
