https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30553.The_Road_to_Wigan_Pier
Instead, to win the all-out and most important war against Fascism (which is, Orwell asserts, at the Gates), the Socialists need to forget class propaganda, accept that class prejudices will take longer to disappear (as elucidated in the previous section) and focus on the principles of ‘liberty’ and ‘justice’, which Orwell is sure will bring all the moral and intelligent people into Socialism.
Orwell is quite clear that the Utopia (or Dystopia, or better, Utopia Caricatured) envisioned as the end goal of socialist progress in Brave New World is the very core of intelligent man’s revulsion towards Socialism - arising organically due to associations with ‘softness’ and degradation.
It surpasses Burmese Days and might almost reach Homage to Catalonia.The first part is a visit to the coal-mining areas up north, and a chronicling of the miners' lives.
It's reminiscent of Engels' Conditions of the English Working Class, but with less statistics and more coal mining, and the social conditions of the miners themselves.
So his Big Question is: why, then, is not everybody a socialist?Already, in 1936, he notes that something is wrong with the state of Socialism.
Their visions were of a machine socialism, were technology somehow makes everything better without any major societal change.
Alright Georgie I get what you're saying, being poor in the 30s was really fucking awful.
I loved the way you wrote about the industrialisation of the north of England and your views on a Socialism and the such but ugh why did you write this one so...
It felt like I was reading a 200-page Guardian column.
I had to force myself through certain parts, not because they were boring or anything but because of the way you went about writing this thing.
Why didn't you write this like Down and Out?
It's a pity Georgie.
A pity.
The Road to Wigan Pier FAQsBack in the days when I hung out in that other dimension called usenet, I wrote several *FAQS* for alt.books.george-orwell (alas, now dead, a repository for villainous spam - RIP):Q & A with George Orwell:B: Will you tell us about the Brookers, the people with whom you stayed for a while in Wigan?
The most dreadful thing about people like the Brookers is the way they say the same things over and over again.
The place was filthy: hanging from the ceiling there was a heavy glass chandelier on which the dust was so thick that it was like fur.
Clearly I do not, in a sense, 'want' to return to a simpler, harder, probably agricultural way of life.
In the same sense I don't 'want' to cut down on my drinking, to pay my debts, to take enough exercise, to be faithful to my wife, etc.
Orwell is fantastically precient, clear, and direct.
This book proves it is just as dangerous to be 'theoretically' on the same side as Orwell as it is to be in direct opposition.
In his essay Politics and the English Language (1946), Orwell wrote about the importance of precise and clear language, and provides six rules for writers: 	• Never use a metaphor, simile or other figure of speech which you are used to seeing in print.
In the second half, and written whilst Fascism is on the rise in Europe, he outlines his Socialist solution.Orwell appears to be unfailingly honest - both about what he encounters amongst the poor families of the north of England (his description of the Brookers' boarding house is powerful and evocative) and his own prejudices.
The second half is interesting, but his tendency to repeat himself, his personal prejudices and his political naivety, undermine this half of the book.
The second half from chapter eight onwards is autobiographical and explains how his life and experience led him to the experiences of the first half, as he says the road from Mandalay to Wigan is a long one and the reasons for taking it are not immediately clear (p.106), the suggestion is that this book is a prosaic response to Kipling's poem The Road to Mandalay., from empire to domestic politics, from Imperialism to Socialism.
Before committing yourself to socialism, he says, you have to see suffering for yourself and decide if it is tolerable, which rather suggests that potentially a disinterested observer might add up the sum of human misery and conclude that it's not that bad and no reason to change direction politically.The key here I feel who Orwell is writing for.
George Orwell pek hakim olduğum bir yazar değil, daha önce birkaç kitabını okuma fırsatı bulmuştum.
'Wigan İskelesi Yolu'nda da aynı şey oldu, cidden çok zorlandım.Kitabın başlamasıyla birlikte ne denli büyük bir yazarın elinden çıktığını hemen kavrıyorsunuz.
Günümüzde gemiciliğin madenciliğe göre çok daha ilerlediğini ve işçilerini güvence altına aldığını tahmin edebiliyorum.) Neyse, bu dünyanın en zor mesleği madencilik ile daha önce 'Germinal' ve 'Oğullar ve Sevgilileri'n de karşılaşmıştım.
aynı zamanda kendi ülkesinin içerisinde gelişen, kapitalist canavarın doyurulması için gelişen kanserli dokuları da çok güzel bir şekilde gözler önüne seriyor.7/10
Set in two distinctive parts I found the first to be the most interesting. Orwell painted a bleak picture of conditions for miners in the north of England. The working class didn't have it easy by any means. Dangerous working conditions, poor pay and even lesser prospects.......and then there were the slums. Visual and descriptive writing. Also enjoyed what Orwell had to say about some of his fellow authors and his take on world affairs. Interesting and informative.
The squalid living and working conditions of 1930s Northern miners. A tract on socialism. Classic Georgie.
"You and I and the editor of the Times Lit. Supp., and the poets and the Archbishop of Canterbury and Comrade X, author of Marxism for Infants–all of us really owe the comparative decency of our lives to poor drudges underground, blackened to the eyes, with their throats full of coal dust, driving their shovels forward with arms and belly muscles of steel.""Every miner has blue scars on his nose and forehead, and will carry them to his death"."All the people I saw in these places, especially t
At that time I had just come back from Burma, where unemployment was only a word, and I had gone to Burma when I was still a boy and the post-war boom was not quite over." "I do not believe that there is anything inherently and unavoidably ugly about industrialism.""This nonsense about the superior energy of the English (actually the laziest people in Europe) has been current for at least a hundred years." "Indeed the Lancashire and Yorkshire miners treated me with a kindness and courtesy that were even embarrassing; for if there is one type of man to whom I do feel myself inferior, it is a coal-miner.""Meanwhile, do the ’lower classes’ smell?
In the first half of The Road to Wigan Pier, Orwell catalogues his participant/observation of the economically deprived North of England focusing on squalor, pollution and hardship during the Depression.
Orwell, fully aware of his own upper middle class prejudices, set to challenge his own feelings of disgust for the working classes; he was educated to believe that they 'smell'.
His description of the Brookers' boarding house is a wonderfully Dickensian gothic and grotesque description of squalor and disappointed lives illustrating that dirt and disgust is what stands in the way of socialism's triumph.
الكتاب الأول في هذه السنة ..وهي القراءة الرابعة للرائع جورج أورويل ولكن ....أولا هي ليست رواية كما توقعت / أو كما آملت ..هي جزء من سيرته الذاتية وسط مناجم الفحم ومتاعب العمال وسوء الحياة في لندن وحياة السخرة التي يعاني منها أصحاب الطبقة العاملة ..فالكتاب جزآن ..
جزء عن حياة العمال في مناجم الفحم ..وهو كثير كثير التفاصيل ..
ربما لم أستمتع بالكتاب كما آملت ..لكن لا أنكر أن براعة أورويل ظهرت في تذكر التفاصيل وكتابتها ..
في قدرته علي رسم الحياة كما عايشها فتشعر أثناء القراءة أنك تحياها معه ..
Much like Hemingway's lost satchel or Genet's samizdat manuscripts, I'll piece this together from jumbled memories.
How's that for hubris?
The Road To Wigan Pier was amongst the best books I've read this year.
The route established by Orwell is more sinuous than expected.
He examines a lodging house and then travels to the pits themselves.
He then concludes his book by meandering back and forth between the theoretical and the autobiographical.
My reasons for reading this now were related on Hadrian's Wall (sorry I couldn't resist.) but Orwell's book did serve as a pleasurable counterpoint to my own holiday experiences.
The second is a journey of the mind, which takes the form of a long essay in which Orwell explores his own middleclass background, English attitudes to social class, the development of political consciousness and the reasons behind the average English person’s resistance to socialism.
Struck by the sheer awfulness of what he had seen on his journey, Orwell analysed the reasons for popular resistance to socialism, which he saw as the solution to the poverty and unemployment.
The quality of the writing and the insight it provides into Orwell’s upbringing, his attitudes, his motivation and the development of his political consciousness (which went on to be developed much more dramatically during the Spanish Civil War) makes this work worth reading.
It's the sad aftermath for me to review this almost dry, damp copy due to the unexpected deluge that leaked into our Language Center on the ground floor after the heavy, steady rainfalls in the evening last Thursday (September 8).
So this is my sad review of this book I read some years ago by quoting some underlined parts with my personal views.
Gollancz can accept a lot in Orwell's description of working-class life; yet, for example, he tut-tuts nervously when Orwell says that working-class people are believed by middle-class people to smell, which indeed, they did.
Excellent description on teachers' lives concerning understanding and insight on the matter (he himself was a teacher for a year or two).5.
Bu Orwell'ın okuduğum ilk non-fiction kitabı.
Hatta öyle geniş ki ikinci bölümünde bir sosyalizm eleştirisine evriliyor.
-ki zaten yazar bunu kendi gözüyle görerek yazmak için yola çıktığını da belirtiyor sonrasında-Orwell'in iyi bir belgeselci ve aynı zamanda iyi bir edebiyatçı olduğu kitabın her satırında kendini belli ediyor.
Şuan beni 1937 Kuzey Ingiltere'sine bıraksanız Wigan'a giden yolu ve Wigan'da yazarın geçtiği evleri teker teker isaret edebilirim.
Mükemmel bir gözlem aktarımı ve betimlemeyle o insanların yoksulluğunu, yoksunluğunu ve acılarını (ve hatta kokularını) yaşayabiliyorsunuz.İkinci bölümünde notları üzerinden sosyalizmin neden kaçınılmaz olduğunu, kurtuluş olacağını; ama neden hâlâ(1937'de yani) başarılı olamadığını gerekçeleriyle açıklıyor.
Sonuna doğru fazlaca politikaya battığından beni kaybetti o yüzden 5 değil 4 yıldız verdim.
The best. Profoundly important work. Timeless relevance. Orwell's instilled personal middle class prejudices seemingly unconsciously expressed amid his objective insightful observations on the different class prejudices, as well as politics, work, hygiene, food nutrition, etc. are intriguing but don't diminish the relevance or value of this work. To read again.
Fascinating and still relevant. The narration seemed wrong at first, but I think was perfect. This book is a bizarre mix of raw statistics, moving stories, humorous opinions, and clever political strategies.
George Orwell spent a lot of time living amongst the people and observing the standard of living.
It was just fascinating and made me realise that some things truly never change.
I found it chilling how Orwell describes the revulsion the middle classes of the time felt towards the working class, and how ironic it was they loathed the very people they claimed to be championing through socialism and were out of touch even then!
I mean seriously, nothing has changed.
Im sure George Orwell is spinning in his grave at these strange lives we lead in this country now.
در واقع برایم تجدید خاطره ای بود از روزهای بازدید از معادن ذغال سنگ البرز شرقی وافسوسی که با خواندن نوشته های اورول بهم دست میداد ناشی از عدم تغییر و تحول در این صنعت و ایمنی آن نسیت به شصت سال پیش بود( حداقل آنچه که اورول در مورد معادن ذغال سنگ انگلستان گفت با امروز این معادن در ایران یکسان است).

He spends the remainder of the book talking about his philosophies, examining why people are hesitant to explore and embrace Socialism, and his argument as to why we should all be Socialists.The subject material that was presented was very intriguing and striking like a piece of Stilton cheese.
I also felt that I got a great sense of British politics and how the United States is going through a similar period of time where they are examining whether or not Socialism could be beneficial to its people and the nation as a whole.
Informative and thought-provoking with loads to digest.
I read this as a budding social revolutionary (!) in my days of high school rebellion so have fond memories of the author/book and find it difficult to slag him/it off.
That being said, I like Orwell's journalistic accounts (like this one and Burmese Days), I like his writing style as the crisp prose of a journalist shines through and I like his commitment to showing how, even in a fairly well-off society like Britain, there have always been people who are forgotten about.
This is a "Friday evening-plotting the overthrow of society" read.
This was definitely a book of two halves. The first section was reminiscent of Down and Out in Paris and London, although not as interesting. The second half was very representative of Orwell's essays, of which I've read most. So, where does that leave me feeling about this book? I didn't like it so much. I felt like I'd read most of it before and so that lessoned my enjoyment. I didn't learn anything knew here, but I still appreciated what Orwell had to say and think it's a worthwhile read if you've only tried his fiction.
الكتاب من قسمين:في القسم الأول يتناول أوريل حياة الطبقة العاملة في شمال إنكلترا، يصف معاناتهم والظروف المعيشية الصعبة، وعملهم في مناجم الفحم..في الجزء الثانية يناقش الإشتراكية -كضرورة تاريخية لمواجهة الفاشية، وهو هنا يحاول تسليط الضوء على الأشتراكيين ونقد الفكر الأشتراكي نقداً يسهم في تطويره..بشكل عام لم أتفاعل مع الكتاب، لأنه يتطرق إلى مواضيع لا تستهويني، ولكني اعتقد أنه مهم مفيد جداً لفهم الحياة في إنكلترا ما قبل الحرب العالمية،..
interesting book looking at the industrial towns of the late 1930's with poverty and poor housing and the second part looking at socialism and the future of the world in view of that current events
This was an interesting and insightful read and though it was written some eighty years ago it is remarkably current, timeless in many ways. There is much to stop and ponder over; for example: Here you come upon the important fact that every revolutionary opinion draws part of its strength from a secret conviction that nothing can be changed.  Orwell pulled some things into all-too-sharp a focus for some tastes back then, which are just as challenging and eye-averting today in our so-called 'inc
Orwell pulled some things into all-too-sharp a focus for some tastes back then, which are just as challenging and eye-averting today in our so-called 'inclusive-all embracing-anything-goes' society.This book is well written and Orwell's descriptions and turns of phrase do not disappoint; one (amongst others) that amused me was:
Generally the crumbs from breakfast were still on the table at supper.
I used to get to know individual crumbs by sight and watch their progress up and down the table from day to day.
Such observations seemed to add a certain surrealness to the work that I liked and did not detract from the serious nature of the book.
Reading The Road to Wigan Pier got me roused up about a lot of things.
First among them is to read more George Orwell.
His description of coal miners's lives is exemplary journalism by today's standards, and this is commissioned work he did when he was only in his 20s.
At the halfway point in the book, Orwell turns to the subject of socialism.
I like that he is moderate in his views; he never endorses extremism, although, of course, he is focused on the need to provide decent living conditions for poor working class families.
