https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/462390.Web_of_the_Witch_World
Having Jaelithe retain power after marrying Simon is a cop-out to the theme--she never feels the bite of this sacrifice and the path not chosen--but it raises conflicts familiar to dual-income families.
There's a suggestion in here that even absent the original stark equation that the career path may be more preferable.Secondly, and this drives the rest, there is a tidy political conflict brewing, surrounding Loyse and her heredity.
Once Kolder's hand is revealed then the political machinations fall away, Simon and Jaelithe reconnect and prove their insecurities to be nothing, and then it's time to sneak around the Kolder base and have gunfights.
It is set a year after the end of book 1 and the marriage of the man from our world, Simon Tregarth, and Jaelithe, formerly one of the witches of Estcarp.
Simon is now fully established as a citizen of his adopted home and has been made a marshal in the south of the country, in charge of a force guarding the border against aggression from their neighbour, Karsten.As the story opens, Jaelithe realises that her power, which was supposed to have been lost when she married Simon, has returned, although she no longer has the jewel she used to focus it, having surrendered that to the other witches.
This is not so much a sequel to ‘Witch World’ as a continuation of that story, which ended on a somewhat anticlimactic and inconclusive note.
‘Web’ is not quite the equal of its predecessor but manages to be an entertaining adventure story.Science fiction comes more to the front in this story than in WW, and the fantasy elements are somewhat of a veneer.
To me, that made it a bit less interesting — it was the focus on those sword-toting heroes and wily witches that made ‘Witch World’ stand out from the crowd amid early-Sixties speculative fiction.
In the second of the Witch World series, Jaelith and Simon are trying rescue Loyse and stop Kolder from full scale invasion. A nice little sequel to the first book, this does a good job of digging a little more into Jaelith's and Simon's relationship and exploring more the origins of Kolder and its alien technology.
The evidence is that some party in Karsten hopes to secure Yvian's dukedom by enforcing the ax marriage from the 1st book.Chapter IV: Fulk and--Fulk: Simon Tregarth, with a party of Borderers, raids Verlaine--and finds that Fulk has become an agent of the Kolder--and that he is forced by his masters to suicide rather than be captured.
Now she's tracking Simon, Loyse, and Aldis to lead Koris and a Sulcar ship to the Kolder gate.Chapter XI: It's not so much that it's (very) difficult to get a submarine into (and out of) Tormarsh.
However, the glimmerings of witch power that Simon possessed, unknown among men in the Witch World, bonds with Jaelithe's witch powers, making them more than what she was before; though convincing the witches of this is a challenging task.In the meantime, the witches, Simon, and the allies of Estcarp continue to fight the inter-dimensional invaders from Kolder, a society of advanced technology and no morality.
ORIGINALLY POSTED AT Fantasy Literature.Web of the Witch World continues the story of Simon Tregarth, the modern man who escaped assassination by coming through a gate into the Witch World, and Jaelithe, a witch of Estcarp, as they fight the strange enemy who are invading their land.
Jaelithe gave Simon her name, thus showing her trust in (and love for) him, and Loyse and Koris declared love for each other.But in Web of the Witch World the sappy stuff abruptly ends when Duke Yvian, formally betrothed to Loyse, kidnaps her because he needs to marry her to seal his claim to power in Karsten.
I think a powerful story could have been told about just that; they are at war, and Witches, never plentiful, are fewer in number now even than usual because they've been hunted by the enemy, and I think it would make for a solid hook for her superiors to have fought a whole lot harder to prevent her from committing herself to a course of action through which she will – as they thought – lose her powers.
This was fun but not quite as good as the first Witch World novel.
He and Jaelithe have sort of split up because she seems to have regained her witch abilities, and Loyse is in danger again.
I think aside from the plot being kinda samey my issue is that Simon feels more like a native of the Witch World and less like a man from our time and place.
Yes, he has some form of magic/psychic powers, but even if that's special for men on the Witch World, it doesn't feel like it reflects his Earth nature the same way as John Carter's fighting skill and impressive leaping.
Another ridiculous 80s cover though, as I have no idea what the smaller figure is representing - Simon, I suppose but not in any way as portrayed in the book.The 2nd book follows on the heels of the 1st, although it starts with Simon and Jaelithe married, a done deal - so nothing is shown of the decision to sacrifice her powers, confronting her sisters or any internal angst.Having established the characters and players in the 1st book, there is more plot action relating to those dastardly Kolders, and wraps up with rather more drama than the confrontation in the 1st book.
As was Witch world (first of this series), not quite as enigmatic nor dark as some of Norton's other books, but still quite good.
The story built up to a big battle, but there wasn't much to the ending battle.
Sitll, very enjoyable, though.The different series in the Witch World books was rather confusing to me.
To assist others, here are several sites with good information:A suggested reading order:http://www.andre-norton-books.com/arc...Although I'm not sure I'd agree with this.
Publication date order is often the best.I like this site better.
It gives a listing of the books by Cycle order and also lists publication date.
Like much of classic fiction, it's inteeresting to read a book that formulates and utilizes cliches and tropes, especially when some of those tropes now evoke a very different cultural response.
I expected Witch-world to be fantasy, and it was, and yet it reminded me far more of say Michael Morcooks' Runestaff books than it did of Tolkien.
Gender dynamics and relationship structures that are to a degree now anachronistic(though nowhere near comparable to say Lensmen.)While this book didn't blow me away it did keep me reading and I did enjoy it more than the first one.
“Web” was a bit of a surprise.
I liked “Witch World”, but didn’t love it.
I struggled with the prose and simply the act of reading.
The version of the book I had was a first edition paperback with a font that looks like 6 point on yellowing paper so old, it’s orange.
I could only read about twenty pages before getting tired.
It was nominated for a Hugo in 1964, but it didn’t generate the excitement in me I thought it would.
“Web” on the other hand, had me totally enrapt.
I ate it up despite the similar prose, tiny font, orange pages, and watering eyes.
A fine sequel to The Witch World (#1), though it doesn't have the remarkable pacing, extraordinary reversals and vast scope of the first book. Norton ties up lots of loose ends and spends too much time adding new muscles to the Hero. The antagonists remain quite terrible in this book, though somehow despite their pervasiveness and ever trumped power, the tension fails to hold. Norton seems to have violated the key to maintaining horror: an asymmetry of power and knowledge between the villains and the heros.
I've rediscovered Andre Norton thanks to a book club member who included this one in an order. The hero finds himself embroiled in an alien world war to which he has traveled. In this new environment he has won a throne and a witch-wife but finds it threated by highly scientific alien invaders from a place called the Kolder. The story provides an enjoyable read as Simon Tregarth and his witch-wife, Jaelithe, strive to save the world to which he has been transplanted. The reader hears the story from both when they are separated by events. Very good read.
As one might expect, this volume doesn't work as well as "Witch World". However, it is an enjoyable read and furthers the adventures of the characters we have already met in Norton's interesting universe. For those interested, the entire series in reading order is:Witch WorldWeb of,the Witch WorldYear of the UnicornThree Against the Witch WorldWarlock of the Witch WorldSorceress of the Witch WorldLater on Norton added Spell of the Witch World--a collection of stories set in that universe.
Неожиданно зачетный (особенно на фоне средненькой первой части) science fantasy боевик, с псионикой, мечами, танками, древними цивилизациями, коварной политикой, межмировыми вратами и всем прочим. Очевидный источник вдохновения для Фармера с его Многоярусным миром, как в свою очередь сам Фармер позднее послужил источником вдохновения для Желязны с Амбером, ну и далее везде, вплоть до строссовских Merchant Princes. Занятная такая творческая эстафета через десятилетия :)
A reasonably enjoyable book. There's some clunky grammar in here, and most of the characterisations are pretty thin, but it's not looking too shabby for a book that's nearly 50 years old! At any rate, it's been 20 years since I last read a Witch world book, so this served as a good reintroduction to that universe.
Strangely sloppy and unsatisfying, and reads as if it were written under extreme deadline pressure; situations spin by without clarification, characters come and go for no reason, and parts of the prose are almost impossible to read with a straight face. However, Andre Norton's baseline brilliance of invention is hard to beat.
Just as good as I remembered from the first time I read it in 1985.
great nortonNot her best but well worth a read ! Well deserves the title of GRAND MASTER !! I Liked it .
Love her booksI have her books in paperback now I'm putting them here where I can make text larger so I can enjoy them again.
I have never liked this as much as the other books about the Witch World, and after reading others' comments, I realized it is because it feels incomplete and out of place.
A good follow up to Witch World. I have it in Hard back from the SF book club. The volume includes the first three books.
Very good followup to the first book. Simon Tregarthe and his Witch wife are headed for a final fight with the Koldar to finally free the world of their insidious influence.
Book #2 is not so much a sequel but a continuation of Book #1, set a year later.
3.5 stars, rounded up
Questo secondo libro parte abbastanza fantasy per arrivare come storia di fantascienza. Simon,la strega/maga che nel frattempo è pure diventata sua moglie,anche se non si sa bene come, e tutta la truppa del precedente libro,sono alle prese con portali che conducono in altri mondi,possessioni psichiche e rapimenti alieni con sommergibili. Il mondo di Escarp ora è sotto attacco da una razza aliena proveniente da non si sa dove che si scontrerà con la magia delle streghe.Più intrigante del primo,ma non mi ha ancora presa del tutto.Riconfermo che la scrittura è proprio fredda,sebbene qui si siano formate delle coppie,anche di amici.
I read this book simply because it was written by one of my favorite authors. It turned out to be too much mysticism for me and not enough "science fiction" for which Norton is known. Hence, I am not a suitable reader to judge this work. No star rating...it would not be fair.
This story of Simon Tregarthe and Jaelithe confronting the final battle with Kolder is more original plotting of the Witch World novels. I think Andre wrote a lot of background books about the Witch World which had similar quest features, but this isn't one of them.
