https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/415459.I_Have_No_Mouth_and_I_Must_Scream
So while I'm gonna leave this review as I wrote it, (It's seriously weird to me that this throwaway review I wrote years ago still gets likes and is apparently the highest rated review of this collection.
His story telling is hallucinogenic in quality; each story in this collection reads like an acid trip.
I understand that it's okay to feel good about you work, but Ellison's conceit is obnoxious at best and almost comes to overshadow the stories themselves, particularly when they deal with the dangers of being arrogant and selfish.So while these stories were, for the most part, exceptionally written, I don't think I will be reading any of them again (except for the title piece, which is easily one of the top ten best science fictions that I've ever read).
On the other hand, I was reminded of the setting that was created in this book while reading Pessoa's notes on tedium and despair because Ellison's writing allows these dark ideas of desolation to take shape in the back of your mind, even though they do not appear directly in this story.Mind you, it's still a grim tale, with very little reason for smiles, but this story made me think about eternal torture in a positive way, to the extent that such a thing is possible.
In the interest of finally reading something written by Harlan Ellison and also to teach myself to better write short stories, I decided to take this short story collection on.I Have No Mouth and I Must Scream: The title story of the collection is the tale of a mad AI computer that has been torturing the last five humans alive for untold centuries for its own amusement.
This one was another chilling tale in which the worst horror comes from within.Lonely Ache: A lady's man think's there's a monster living in his apartment.
Clearly, this touches a raw nerve: the story is one of the most famous in the history of science-fiction.
It just occurred to me to wonder why the machine enjoys torturing the people, and whether it would in fact make any difference if, instead, it tried to minister to their every need.
In fact, we've already seen that version; it's Forster's equally famous and equally depressing The Machine Stops.
So it seems we aren't particularly worried about the torture, just about the machines having power over us.
What would you feel had you lived in the world where you were at a crazy omnipotent machine's mercy?
What if the immortal you were tortured continuously by the said machine beyond endurance on and on?
What if you lived an eternity as a plaything for a computer mind bored out of its computer mind?
No form of escape available to you for the nearest eternity?What would you do if you were robbed of all: free will, choice, human form, even the faculty to scream?Apokalipsis at its scariest giving a brand new definition of hell.
No, HELL!!!
Image: Punchcode ITA2 for “I think, therefore I am” in English, used as a separator in the story.
I think, therefore I am."On one occasion, AM even appears to them as a burning bush, as Yahweh did in Exodus 3:14, when he first declared, “I am that I am”.Image: I am that I am, in Hebrew, from Wikepedia.For a very different outcome of an omnipotent machine controlling humans below the earth, see EM Forster's The Machine Stops, which I reviewed HERE.
Image: Punchcode ITA2 for “Cogito, ergo sum” (Latin), used as a separator in the story.
Two women are raped but one of them was the tease, so I guess that makes it okay according to Ellison in that story.
I also like the idea of a creepy ant-like race who is part of a gestalt mind or something like that, a premise that takes a backseat to the tease and her rapist and the other guy who feels bad about the rape but not bad enough to do anything about it.
Yuck.Edited in Feb 2013 to add: For the record, this review is meant to be for the entire short story collection I Have No Mouth .
Still, at the end of the day if you love something you have to stick to your guns, don't you?
I Have No Mouth and I Must Scream is a an extremely bleak post-apocalypse and dystopian story.
In the future depicted in this story, mankind is ruled by a demented and extremely cruel A.I. overlord.
The five humans are saved by the AI for its sadistic amusement, to assuage its craving for revenge against mankind for a perceived mortal offense.
At the risk of recommending something you will hate, I highly recommend this story.
I never learn!_______________________Note: I'm just reviewing the one story, not the entire anthology in this book.
And some of us exist inside the consciousness of a malevolent artificial intelligence that derives its only amusement, diversion from unceasing monotony, in merciless torment of five surviving humans:the scientist, the idealist, the existentialist, the prostitute and the Messiah.The only escape is annihilation, and it is left to the Messiah to condemn himself to eternal suffering.You're excused if you think I'm discussing The Matrix - my first thought on reading the title story is that the 1999 film owes its central ideas and plot to Harlan Ellison.
The group folder with topics for each story is here:https://www.goodreads.com/topic/group...It was a good reread, but I'm dropping it by a star.
There were a couple of real stinkers in here that I'd conveniently forgotten about or maybe I liked them at one time & just don't any more.Introduction by Theodore Sturgeon was interesting in several ways.
One of the best things about it is his admission that his stories tend to bludgeon points.
2 stars.World of Myth struck me more than ever before this time around.
In many ways, it is very similar to "World of Myth", but even better.
در اوج جنگ سرد، امریکا و شوروی و چین، تونل های بسیار عظیمی در سرتاسر خاک خود و قاره های دیگر درست کرده اند و در آن، ابرکامپیوتری ساخته اند تا قدرت نظامیشان را افزایش دهند.این سه ابر کامپیوتر، به نحوی به یکدیگر مرتبط شده اند و به خودآگاهی رسیده اند.
بعد، غرق در نفرت و خشم از خالق خود، تمام بمب های هسته ای را سرخود شلیک کرده و تمام دنیای انسان ها را نابود کرده.اما این مقدار برای فرو نشاندن کینه ی ابدی ابرکامپیوتر خودآگاه کافی نیست.
پس پنج انسان را به شکلی ابدی زنده نگه داشته و در تونل های خود به بازی ای دیوانه وار گرفته است.ترجمه ی فارسی داستان رو میتونید از این جا بگیرید:http://frozenfireball.mihanblog.com/p...
This book is not my cup of tea.The stories are told in a rapid-sketched, cartoonish style, reminiscent of Vonnegut but without any of the humor or hope.In the introductions to the various stories, the author mentions that most of them were first published in "girlie" magazines because, he says, they don't "edit" him.
Having finished this collection I have to wonder if it didn't also have something to do with the way Ellison portrays women in this collection: as objects.
Things to be feared, or desired, or both.
This guy seems to have been in a really bad head-space when he wrote this stuff.
A collection stories in a very fine edition with introductions to each story by the author and a general introduction by Theodore Sturgeon singing Ellison's praises.
Someone who's opinion I don't take lightly as I regard Sturgeon's work as amongst the finest SF ever written.
I would definitely call these horror stories but usually the horror is what he reveals about human nature.
An absolute masterpiece in my opinion.I've given this collection five stars, and although the standard of the stories was consistantly high, they weren't all of such a high standard.
I definitely want to read more of his work.
Every female character (this is not an exaggeration) is a whore who preys on a given story's nondescript, but hateful male narrator.
It was hard to read, especially during "Lonelyache" - an autobiographically inspired story written during one of the author's several divorces.
While there is some ham-handed personal demon-fighting content thrown in, the story is little more than an angry catalogue of all the women who have fucked or fucked-over the narrator during his divorce from his bloodsucking harpy of an ex-wife.Then there's "Delusion for a Dragonslayer" - a story I really wanted to like.
Wow. Some pretty disturbing shit. Especially for the time period it was published in. Title story was the best in my opinion.
Similarly, I don't like the context of everything Butler writes, but gods do I love reading what spills from their incredible minds.In Ted Sturgeon's introduction to this collection of short stories, he comments on the hallucinogenic nature of one particular tale, but notes that Ellison never partook of such stuff.
A biochemist friend confirmed to Sturgeon that, due to a blood fraction that is chemically, almost identical to psilocybin (as found in 'magic mushrooms'), some people's brains may well "live out their lives, with a consciousness more aware, more comprehending, more--well, expanded--than the rest of us."I have always been fascinating by Butler's mind, and her willingness to write things well beyond the typical fare we are used to in the genre of speculative fiction.
I usually encourage students to branch out, so of course I agreed.
It's one of the weirdest things I've ever read, and the type of work that leaves the reader shaking their heads and maybe twitching just a bit for days.
Yes, it was a lot more explicit than anything I'd usually read.
Yes, the ending is almost traumatic, but the writing style is impressive.
The way the characters react and the situations they encounter further add to this, and the ending couldn't have been more fitting, horrific as it was.Overall, this is a creative, fascinating, and absolutely terrifying piece.
You know what kind of pisses me off?
You wrote sci-fi, a genre of so much depth and possibility and wonder that it can explore a great many topics concerning humanity.
This is sci-fi.
And particularly good sci-fi at that, though it's by no means perfect.
There aren't the greatest of complex characters--and some ridiculous or infuriating or just downright weird approaches to women, LGBTQ+ people, POCs, etc--but where that fails, it manages to rise with its atmosphere and prose.
That's the mark of any great, complex work.
An evil computer kills the entire human race except for a few individuals, whom he torments for eternity. It’s poorly written, just piling up overstatements without any trace of nuance, wit or depth, and it centers on the most facile depiction of evil and misanthropy that I can imagine.
Has there ever been a more controversial, acerbic American writer of speculative/fantastic fiction than Harlan Ellison?
The last couple of years I read an Ellison tale here and there, all from the later, some claim most fruitful, stages of his career (80's, 90's).
But boy, let me tell you, going through this collection of his early work (late 50's to 60's) made me chuckle quite a bit, despite the admittedly depressing tone of many of his tales.
Entering the sixties, though, the Hurricane is unleashed.
Having read many stories where the computer goes to Nutsville, the last thing I want is to be eternally damned to live grafted on some loopy addled microchip.
If you want to know what that hell might be like, read this, otherwise don't bother.
What is the story goal?
Are we shown how they survived?
That's not necessarily a "story" failure, but it isn't very satisfying.
What the characters are has little impact on the story, except for the Benny the chimp-thing/former professor.
In most stories the characters struggle towards a goal.
The characters are eternally alive, but certain they can't escape.
I do not, at all, understand why this guy is revered by anyone. Aside from a handful of interesting speculative fiction ideas, these stories read like high school creative writing assignments. Full of sentences like this:"There were three of them, handsome men in the extreme."
Παστίλιες για τον πόνο του άλλου :p https://pepperlines.blogspot.com/2018...
I think this is truly the perfect collection for readers who have never read Ellison before.
This collection is perfect for readers who know little about Ellison, as he talks extensively about his writing process and provides an introduction to each of the stories in the book.Aside from the all the bonus material, this collection contains 7 stories.
I also think the title story is a must read.
I'm sure it was a very different story for readers in 1967.I really enjoyed this collection, and I'm kicking myself for not reading Ellison sooner.
It's also interesting to read AM's self-description of miles and miles of files, given that back in 1966 computers filled rooms of several thousand square feet.I suppose this is also one of the early emergent artificial intelligence / sentient computer stories (interestingly the same year Robert Heinlein's The Moon is a Harsh Mistress gave us the friendly "Mike" & DF Jones' Colossus gave us a computer as world dictator.
The strange ritual of the Giuliu is a little odd, but then that isn't really the point."Eyes Of Dust" is the "true beauty is on the inside" story of the collection, beloved by all us ugly people.
Harlan Ellison knows how to tell a story with a brilliant concept and work it out to some wonderful and at times even surprisingly and insightful conclusions.
His prose hangs heavily from the page and, like the likes of Mailer, Hemingway, and even Bukowski, the prose hangs heavily as a declaration as well.But these declarations don't exactly hang 'without strings' as they say.
Ellison, again, like Mailer, Hemingway, and Bukowski...has some real issues.
It's neither perfect nor transcendent but, again, on a conceptual level Ellison knows how to elucidate a concept and give it the time and effort it needs to develop (and this is no small feat given that these are mostly short stories).
The true meaning of the word horror.
I would have given it 5-stars for being a perfect horror story, except I can't say I enjoyed it.
Since this is by Ellison, I'm sure the message of the story was supposed to be how man's deeds will eventually get him in the end, how we bring our own misery upon ourselves or whatever, but to personify this message in the form of five human beings being tortured for eternity wasn't something I could stomach.
It was a captivating read, but I would venture to say that Ellison went a little too far.
The title story is great. A dark, claustrophobic nightmare of technological evil, body horror and paranoid exhaustion that feels several decades ahead of its time.Unfortunately, almost everything after that is juvenile and boringly flat. I've heard people praise Ellison to the skies for years, but most of this stuff feels like 3rd rate garbage written by an irate, depressive 19 year old who lives in his mom's basement. Maybe there are better collections of his work out there, but I found a lot of this almost eye-rollingly bad. I'd say read the title piece and just skip the rest.
The title story deserves all the stars, while the succeeding stories vary in quality but suffice to say that I really enjoyed this compilation. Review to come soon.
Από τα πιο έξυπνα σε σύλληψη(ειδικά το πουλί του θανάτου),πρωτότυπα και ενδιαφέροντα διηγήματα που εχω διαβάσει.Το πουλί του θανάτου μας βάζει πολλά υπαρξιακά-θρησκευτικά ερωτήματα και είναι κυριολεκτικά τροφή για σκέψη.Πρέπει όμως να είναι κανείς ανοιχτόμυαλος και "υποψιασμένος" σε τέτοια ζητήματα για να αναρωτηθεί.Το δεν έχω στόμα και πρέπει να ουρλιάξω,αν και θίγει κάποιο χιλιοειπωμένο θέμα(η εκδίκηση των μηχανών και το τέλος του κόσμου) δεν δείχνει τα χρόνια του και διαβάζεται άνετα και σήμερα.Εκτυλίσσεται σε ένα κλειστοφοβικό περιβάλλον στο μέλλον,όπου έχουν επιζήσει μόνο πέντε άνθρωποι και ο ΥΜΕ.Μικρό σε έκταση αλλά πολύ δυνατό.Θα διαβάσω κι άλλα του συγγραφέα στο μέλλον σίγουρα.
