https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/226971.A_Glass_of_Blessings
Pym writes about middle class people going about their day to day activities just as Trollope and Austen did and just like them she makes the characters fascinating.The book is set in the 50’s and told from the viewpoint of a 29 year old childless woman named Wilmet as she tries to navigate growing older.
She touches on homey things like knitting, helping a friend choose a new dress or hairdo, nights at home with her husband and mother in law, romantic memories of the war years and Italy, church gossip, and even listening to John Rutter on the radio directing Christmas carols sung by the King’s Cambridge choir.
Anglican flirtations. Sensitive, specialized."I never know what it is that Christians want when they pray for the sick," said Sybil. "Death is greatly to be desired for believers, and yet they never like to pray for that."  Exactly.  Heavenly socials: I bet Joan of Arc is marvelous at bridge. Who else is around? See anyone you know ?
This may end up being my favorite Pym novel. (I’m reading them in sequence, and this one at least ties with her debut, Some Tame Gazelle, in my affections.) Unlike most Pym protagonists, Wilmet is married. She has a roving eye both in the classic sense but more broadly in the way she gazes and gawks, missing some important obvious things but keenly picking up on much else, slaying the reader with hilarious, often deliciously wicked observations. My BookTube review: https://youtu.be/4lzhOmwyXU0
Pym's books are literary comfort food; sweet, sad tales of real--ordinary--people. Impoverished gentlewomen, spinsters, repressed bachelors, pensioners and altar-society matrons; unfailingly soothing.
I think this will end up being one of my favorite Pyms. I particularly liked the main character, Wilmet, who's terribly self-centered (though not in a nasty way) but very sympathetic at the same time.
Loved it :) Such a Pym lover.
I keep thinking that it's like a glass of blessings - life, I mean..." "That comes from a poem by George Herbert, doesn't it?" I said.
This rather surprised me, for I had not hitherto had the impression that Father Thames was the scholarly type of clergyman; though, on thinking it over, I supposed that every parish priest must have a large desk, if only to answer his correspondence and prepare his sermons.” Also providing a welcome distraction – which starts to almost become a rather unsuitable infatuation – is Piers Longridge – the rather unsuccessful brother of Wilmet’s best friend Rowena.
I simultaneously loved and hated the moment when Wilmet and her husband burst out laughing together in the horrid little restaurant; it seemed too pat, but is life really like that after all?
Loved the scene that’s illustrated on the cover of the edition I read -- Wilmet entering the parish hall for the evening social gathering to meet Father Ransome.
'I'm sure you'll need it.'"I refused, thinking that it might not mix very well with the refreshments I should get at the parish hall, and it occurred to me that one could perhaps classify different groups of circles of people according to drink.
Barbara Pym was hailed twice by the Times Literary Supplement as "the most underrated novelist of the century" -- that was 1977; she died three years later in 1980 at the age of 67 having published just 7 novels in her lifetime of which A Glass of Blessings was her fifth.Set in 1950s London, this witty novel is told through the narration of the shallow and self-absorbed protagonist Wilmet Forsyth who, despite her flaws, begins to learn something about love and about herself.

An acute observer of her surroundings and particularly of the happenings in the local church, Wilmet embarks on a journey of discovery which sees her yearning after a little adventure in her life, especially as Rodney prefers her not to work she feels she must fill her time somehow.
Soon she finds Piers occupying her thoughts a little more than perhaps is proper for a married woman.A Glass of Blessings was published in 1958 and was the fifth of seven books written by Barbara Pym. It is the first of her books I have read and it will not be the last.
"Wilmet Forsyth is fairly young, good-looking, well dressed, well looked after, suitably husbanded and rather bored.
Her interest wanders to the nearby Anglo-Catholic church and its three unmarried priests, and on to Piers Longridge whose enigmatic overtures are rather intriguing."The story of an innocent at large is, as usual, handled brilliantly and tactfully by a writer whose sense of social comedy, and whose penetration, are of the highest order."~~back coverI must have blinked, & missed something.
I didn't even find it much of a comedy of manners, and certainly nothing much happened to her (although it did to some of the other characters.)
I just re-read this after about 20 years and enjoyed it thoroughly. It is just delightful. This time, I was struck by the depiction of how often we can fool ourselves about romantic relationships. I almost blushed for Wilmet and myself, for I suspect it is a trait common to many of us.
Dated. Charming. Cosy. Gossipy. Funny. People saying things lightly, stiffly, bossily, fruitily, etc.Lots of drinking tea; sipping sherries, and downing martinis.Clergy life and church services.Vanities, affections, infatuations.About a British married lady-of-leisure's social life with everyone; her husband featuring as a kind of dull wallpaper to everything else.
“I discovered Barbara Pym’s ‘A Glass of Blessings’ this year and could not believe I had never read Pym. I loved it.
I had read Excellent Women many many years ago.
I should read it again.
In A Glass of Blessings, much of the story is about the Episcopal (Anglo-Catholic) church where she attends.
Because I attend an Anglo-Catholic church, I understood much of the vocabulary.
(Also, I read that Penelope Wilton (Downton Abbey) narrated this book for the BBC many years ago.) Next Pym for me.
La protagonista Wilmet è terribilmente credibile (e forse proprio per questo, antipatica, anche se mai cattiva, e comunque personaggio in crescita nell'arco del romanzo, dal momento che ci si può tranquillamente specchiare nelle sue vanità, negli errori di valutazione, nella noia) ma i comprimari sono eccezionalmente simpatici e divertenti.
Sto pensando soprattutto alla suocera di Wilmet, e al compagno del suo 'ammiratore segreto'.In ogni caso ottimo romanzo.
Inoltre c'è stata la bizzarra particolarità di una citazione condivisa con la mia successiva lettura, Wives and Daughters della Gaskell "He that will not when he may, when he will he shall have nay."
This is my fourth Barbara Pym I've read and, to date, my favorite.....Another book which might be thought of, on face value, as English snobbery but, given the times that the book was written, it was remarkably progressive. There's a juxtaposition of characters (Church going Wilmet, agnostic Sybil, gay Piers, leering Harry, doting Rodney). The book could be written last year and still be current.
One of her best, I think. A lot going on beneath the surface -- understated and rich. Love her. Loved it.
A wonderfully wry comedy of Anglo-Catholic manners in the 1950's.
No me ha interesado la historia. Pero me gustó tanto Mujeres excelentes que seguiré a la búsqueda de mas títulos de esta autora.
In the meantime, a new priest has come to the vicarage, the handsome Father Ransome, for whom lodgings are found in the house of Mary Beamish, a young woman Wilmet finds rather dull.
Indeed, it seems that both her elderly mother-in-law and plain Mary Beamish have more romance in her life than Wilmet does…The book has many of the typical features of Barbara Pym’s books.
The Excellent Woman (Mary Beamish), the priests (Father Thames, Bode and Ransome), the Decayed Gentlewoman (Miss Prideaux) and the gay man who is the object of a woman’s interest (Piers).
Same as Barbara Pym's other novels, A Glass of Blessings is characters-driven and not much of a plot.
Perhaps my favourite character is Sybil, the mother-in-law of Wilmet, an energetic, retired intellectual in her late 60s, who does not believe in God and is more liberal and modern than many of the younger characters.
Bear in mind that the book was written ten years before same-sex activities were decriminalised in UK.Let me share some of my favourite quotes:"The days when we had confided our emotional secrets to each other were gone now, or perhaps it was the secrets themselves rather than the days which were gone.""I wondered whether many men, perhaps the clergy especially, went about cajoling or bullying women into being the answer to a prayer.
"Oh Wilmet, life is perfect now!
Over the course of the novel, Wilmet gains significant personal insights that eventually allow her to forge stronger relationships with both family and friends.A Glass of Blessings is my fourth, and new favorite, Barbara Pym novel, but I imagine some aspects must have shocked her readers in 1958.
Kudos to Open Road Media for releasing the ebooks in time for Barbara Pym's Centenary and making her work available to a new generation of readers.My rating:4.5/5 stars
She had renewed interest from the reading world in 1977, when both Philip Larkin and Lord David Cecil chose her as one of the most underrated novelists of the century.After that serialisation.
I can understand why she fell out of fashion, writing as she does about English ladies belonging to the genteel middle and upper classes, Anglo-Catholic clerics, and the world of tea parties, flower arranging, and ladies who lunch.
I struggled to escape what I saw as its stifling clutches - yet now it is delightful to revisit that world in Barbara Pym's writing, seen through her wit and penetrating eyes.
I first read Barbara Pym twenty-some years ago when I worked my way through the fiction stacks at the bookstore where I worked evenings.
I started with Jane and Prudence and Excellent Women, moved on to Crampton Hodnet and Quartet in Autumn and life was good.
It got even better with the gift of A Very Private Eye, Pym's life in diaries and letters, with a forward by her sister, Hazel Holt.Glass of Blessings tells the story of thirty-year-old beautiful Wilmet ("But Wilmet, life is like ...
Best friend Rowena has three children and a life in the suburbs to hold her in check.
I particularly enjoyed the section where she goes out for a 'cosy women's shopping lunch' with her friend, Rowena, and they agree that the spring weather makes one feel unsettled, and that 'one ought to be in Venice with a lover'.
Rowena then admits 'But sometimes, you know, I envy really wicked women, or even despised spinsters - they at least can have their dreams.' The whole chapter was pitch perfect, as we have come to expect from Ms Pym.I could go on and quote lots of lines, because there are some real 'Pym-isms' here.
Good-looking but domesticated, 'a tireless, and sometimes rather tiring companion', who Wilmet remembers 'chattering away, at once comic, boring and cosy.
Like Austen, Pym was a single woman who appeared to spend a considerable amount of time and energy ruminating on the character flaws of others and romanticizing the nature of love.A Glass of Blessings is one of Pym's post-War novels that attracted a new generation of readers in the 1980's.
Some of the other reviewers negatively commented that "nothing really happens" in the books---very true, but that is the reflection of life as Pym saw it for her characters.I enjoyed the ironic romantic twist in this book and visualized the rather plain Barbara Pym casting herself as the "excellent woman" who gets the man.
Highly recommended for readers who like character study over plot.
I first discovered the joy of Barbara Pym books about 20 odd years ago- I suppose at a time when a number of her books had recently been published posthumously. The joy has nt faded, althou it is strange now to be looking at her virtuous women as 'an older than them' rather than 'younger than them'reader. Funny, insightful and an absolute pleasure.
Quiet, with endearing characters. Just the thing to read by the fire on a cold night, with a cup of tea close at hand.
Another wonderful book by Pym. 1958. It's hard to describe her books, they are just awfully good. I enjoy every word, never want to skip a single word.
