https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1889640.Britannia_Mews
But she couldn’t quite let go of her family, they couldn’t quite let go of her, and certain members of her family were drawn to the wonderful puppet theatre at Britannia Mews.The story follows Adelaide, her family, her neighbours and her puppet theatre thorough the Second World War, until she is a very old lady and a younger generation is making new plans for the people and the puppets of Britannia Mews.That story was compelling, it loses focus a little when the story moves to the next generation, but it picks up again in the war years and for a beautifully pitched final act.This is a quieter, more serious book than many of Margery Sharp’s, but there are flashes of her wonderful wit, and many moments that have lovely, emotional insight.
Returning to the Culver’s comfortable townhouse in nearby Albion Place, Adelaide has no idea that in just a few years’ time Britannia Mews will be her home.It’s all cousin Alice’s fault; if she hadn’t been suffering from a cold and missed their drawing lesson, Adelaide would never have been left alone with their drawing master, Henry Lambert, and then he might never have told her that he loved her.
Like Adelaide before her, Dodo feels stifled by the middle-class circles in which her parents move and she knows she wants something different out of life.
At first I thought this was going to be a juvenile story, but thankfully it soon morphed into a sweeping tale of Adelaide, as fiercely independent in her girlhood as she is in old age.
Set in London.
It encompasses 2 world wars.
It goes through as much change and growth as our Adelaide.
New to me author.
Marjorie Sharp wrote 26 novels (!) and 3 of them were made into films, including this one (called the Forbidden Road; also Cluny Brown, the Nutmeg Tree.
I thought she was new to me.
She also wrote the Rescuers.
It's not likely that I would have found it on my own, but it's a charming...I'm looking for the right description, and the best I'm managing is that it's a charming coming of age story...it actually takes us from childhood to old age with the lead character.
I have to knock one star off because, though I think it was important to follow our lead character into old age, her niece takes center stage for the last 1/3, and the book loses something, as the niece is rather lame.
I don't know if these things sound trivial these days, but there is no doubt that they are brave and far from trivial acts at the time.So here we have Adelaide, an eloper, living 'in sin' for decades with a married man who takes his wife's name and Dodo her niece living a fulfilling single life - the implication being this will never change, when the book ends.
Both Adelaide and Dodo fail to give the filial love which is the only important thing women can do with their lives.
Britannia Mews is the story of Adelaide Lambert – born Adelaide Culver – from childhood to very old age.
Born into a prosperous Victorian family, as a child Adelaide would sneak round to the forbidden Britannia Mews tucked between the streets of conventional middle class homes.
One end of the mews at this time is respectably working class while the other end is already beginning to slide into slumishness – it is certainly not considered a suitable place for Adelaide to spend her time.The Culver family move house – and Adelaide and her cousins have many happy days playing in the park.
This was an enjoyable read, but not as tautly written as Cluny Brown, the last Margery Sharp I read. Tracing the story of a woman born in the Victorian era through the Second World War, it covers a lot of ground. Sharp's heroines tend to have an independent streak, and Adelaide is no exception. She also has the knack of making the most of whatever life hands her. If you like historical family sagas with unpredictable heroines, you'll enjoy this.
Excellent story about headstrong Adelaide Culver, and the life-long impact of the rash decision she made in her youth. Well-written and engrossing, with many great character studies. Definitely a good read. I'll be on the lookout for "The Forbidden Street," the screen version of the novel.
Reminded me of Showboat. Both would make good costume drama series.
I read her back when I was a teenager, and have been unable to get her books easily again until recently.
Britannia Mews was built as housing for respectable servants employed in adjoining Albion Place.
Adelaide Culver had no business there, although her parents lived on Albion Place.
But there Adelaide moved, and there she stayed, as over the years between Queen Victoria and the 1920's Britannia Mews was renovated and became trendy.
Then one day Alice's unhappy daughter Dodo came, desperately, to see Adelaide.
But even Dodo, who loved her, was never to learn the truth about Adelaide's marriage.
I used to love Margery Sharp children's books (The Rescuers!) but this was the first adult novel I've read of hers...and it was wonderful. I especially enjoyed the setting of the mews having lived in a London mews very close to the one mentioned in the book. It was interesting to read how the mews was such a slum and then came into fashion. But really, the star of the novel is our heroine Adelaide who develops from a slightly annoying spoiled middle class girl into a strong no-nonsense woman who lives life on her own terms.
This wasn't quite what I expected it to be so I was a wee bit disappointed with it.https://piningforthewest.co.uk/2018/0...
However, the more I read, the more I realized that this novel was written as if it were a nonfiction account of one interesting woman whose life spanned Victorian England, through the outrageous 20’s, and into World War II in London.
Life is so not like that—so many parts of what we do are really just totally uninteresting.
However, it was interesting how things that happened and people’s perspectives were presented without commentary, like was that a good thing or bad thing overall?
It made you think for yourself much more than modern novels do.
This delightful story, written in 1946, is as fresh and entertaining today as when it was written. The life story of Adelaide Culver is intertwined with the progress of the Mews from horse stable to fashionable address from Victorian times to post-war Britain. Through it all, fiercely independent Adelaide makes her own way, from young girl to elderly women without fear or favor of anyone.Margery Sharp is a treasure.
Held my interest I really enjoyed this book. I thought the characters were all well done. It was an interesting story set in a different time and place but I felt like I was there.
Ugly novel with cardboard characters and the shallowest of plots. The writing is as dull and heavy as lead.
I liked it. I didn't love it, but it was an ebook deal so I read it while i was commuting. It took me a while but it was entertaining enough.
This is a beautiful novel. It is now my favorite Margery Sharp work. I must say the ending is wonderfully bitter sweet. I highly recommend it.
I couldn't exactly put it down, but it would have a limited audience among the people I know. My mother would have loved it.
I think the Downton Abbey comparison is pretty apt - lots of fascinating characters, slightly soapy twists, and a long and winding time span.
For me the last third fell a bit flat because I just didn’t care as much about Dodo as I had about the other characters.
The stakes in her story didn’t feel as high, and her innocence was irritating instead of interesting.
I also thought it was a fascinating picture of how close in time different eras actually are - how someone could span the Victorian period and the twenties and WWII all in one lifetime.
When she first steps on to the page in Margery Sharp’s Britannia Mews, Adelaide has very little clue how to operate in the world. She can be forgiven at this point, since she’s under ten and is the sheltered daughter of comfortably middle class Victorian parents. Over the course of the novel—which spans more than fifty years—we see Adelaide grow into a very posed woman who doesn’t seem to change at all. Adelaide’s world rewards the stubborn...Read the rest of my review at A Bookish Type.
An excellent read until the years kept going by and the story kept going on and on until I thought it would never end. Don't get me wrong. The story and the characterswere interesting but everything could have ended several chapters earlier which would have given the ending more poignancy.This book was made into a movie in the forties starring Maureen O'Hara called TheForbidden Street but it doesn't hold a candle to the novel.
Back in my stay-up-late, Britannia Mews was one of the old movies that made me stay up late. I read the book then, but so long ago that it was all only vaguely familiar. Sharp gave us an old-fashioned novel, a solid story, well written and without pretensions ... also without "bad words" or graphic sex scenes. I like it so much that I ordered another Sharp from the library.
L'ho letto con grande piacere. Una bella storia, ben raccontata, con un tocco di Virginia Wolf. Mi piacerebbe leggere qualcosa d'altro di questa scrittrice.
Fiction
Tasty. It starts slowly, and uninvitingly, but then Adelaide’s husband...um...spoiler ...gets pushed down a flight of stairs and it takes off.
I completely get that Britannia Mews was the main "character" in this book, but geez with all of the others created here, I just feel that the story should have been "more".
I mean, what exactly did happen?
Everyone just disappears into a pit - for better or worse.*****WARNING SPOILER ALERT*****Why did all of the elders just go off and die?
What was the point of Belle Burnett?
Why did everyone just come and go - was that the point of the book?
That the place just sucked everyone in and spit them out?I did enjoy some parts, thus the three stars.
What happens when an upper class Victorian girl goes with her heart and elopes with the guy she should shouldn't? (No, he's not secretly an earl or a prince!). Hint: it's not a good choice!Compared to the hoards of historical romances set in this era, this is a much more down-to-earth take on the Victorian era, set in the slums of London. This is a lovely book with rich characters who learn and change and grow.
