https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/939645.Roadmarks
Ladies and gentlemen, may I present you Roadmarks:I said it before and I keep saying this, but half of the fun in reading any book written by Zelazny is to figure out what is going on; I will try to avoid big spoilers, so please forgive me if you think the plot outline I give below is too sketchy.
I have already said this countless times before, and I am going to say it again: I have not seen anybody working in fantasy or science fiction genres who comes close to Zelazny's level of imagination.
Full review first posted on Fantasy Literature: Roadmarks is a fragmented, experimental type of SF novel, tied together by a Road (with a capital R) that leads to all times and places and alternative timestreams in our world’s history, for those who know how to navigate it (a certain German named Adolph briefly pops up in an early chapter, eternally searching for the timeline where he won).
And then there are the time-traveling dragons of Bel’kwinith, who originally made the Road …In what frankly struck me as a rather gimmicky move by Roger Zelazny, the chapters of Roadmarks are all titled either One or Two; the first chapter is called “Two” and they alternate from there.
Yep, that's right, time to dance and stuff!I'm the hot-looking, hips suavely-swaying, blue leotard-wearing babe in the center, in case you were wondering.You know what is really scrumptious?
Anyway, since I'm feeling uncharacteristically generous and compassionate and stuff today, I had a quick look at other—more informative, but revoltingly shrimpless—reviews and here is what I found out: so there's the Road, and there's a guy called Red. There's also a chick called Leila.
A deliriously painful ordeal undoubtedly this will be.➽ Full Evgeny I Think I Read the Book Wrong Will You Pretty Please Unfriend Me Now I Obviously Deserve It and Stuff Crappy Non Review (EITIRtBWWYPPUMNIODIaSCNR™) to come.
"I foresaw this reaction. I can't convince someone else of the existence of a version of reality that is temporarily my subjective vision." is "Reality" what you make it? I guess it depends on who you ask and how their reality is working for them.there's a man named Red who travels down the Road. the Road can lead to all places, all times. the man has a goal but he's not sure what that goal is. unfortunately for Red, someone is out to get him and they've hired 10 assassins to get the job done.
I guess it depends on who you ask and how their reality is working for them.there's a man named Red who travels down the Road.
this is a tricky book and Red is an equally tricky protagonist.Zelazny puts all of his themes and a whole lot of characters and philosophies and amusing trifles and mysterious back stories and intriguing possibilities into a petite novel clocking in at 185 breezy pages.
who doesn't like snacks?as always, his cheeky humor is also on display.
and who doesn't like cheeky humor?
plus it has time traveling dragons!
It is a way to travel not only in time, but also in alternative possibilities and with every alteration a new time line with its own exit on the road is created.
Where are you from, originally?”“I don’t know.”“What do you mean?”“I mean that I can’t find my way back.
Does it matter if we know what the end is that our journey takes us and what would we do to in order to fit in our own place and skin...
With me, it is a matter of honor.”“Do you think you are the only one who might feel that way?”“Not any longer.”..."
I know I am exaggerating and simplifying the issue, but I am simply in awe at how much Zelazny can say with so few words, at his range of emotions, going from mawkish sentimentality to sarcastic humour by way of western style shootouts and even some Godzilla style rampage.The premise is not too complicated: Red Dorakeen is a man who has travelled back and forth in time along the Road in his battered Dodge pick-up.
How to describe this book, especially without spoilers?
It proceeds to continue this way, alternating “Two” and “One” as it follows seemingly random people doing random things in who-knows-where kinds of places (the Twos), and a guy named Red Dorakeen who travels the Road, a highway through time past, present (whatever that means in this situation), and future.
Typical of a Zelazny book, some kind of puzzle is happening around Red. But what?
This particular book will stand as the one where I discovered that Evgeny and I have Kent State in common.
I liked this one but I'm not exactly sure what actually happened.The Road is a highway (or system of connected highways) that connects the future, the past, what might have been, and what still may be.
Red Dorakeen is traveling the Road in his blue pickup,searching for something but not precisely sure what.
A black decade has been declared and Red's enemy gets to make ten attempts on his life.
The chapters alternate between Red's adventure, Randy, and Red's enemies.
Red encounters historical figures as well as those who are ficticious, at our point on the Road, anyway, like Doc Savage.Not my favorite Zelazny but still more engaging than most books written these day.
This, like so many of his books, only gets better each time I read it.
I keep a few old favorites on my device for those times when I need to start a new book during lunch or have a particularly rough day & need a comfort read.
I like it better each time I read it, too.
It makes far more sense after the first read, like so many of Zelazny's books, so I can concentrate more on the variety of flavors.
Popsugar Challenge 2016: (#36) Un viaje por carretera. Caminante no hay caminose hace camino al andar(Antonio Machado)Donde sabemos que: -hay un camino-el tiempo no es lineal- Zelazny parece que andaba en la misma fiesta fumandose lo mismo que ese señor de la autopista galáctica (publicaron el mismo año)-O sea igual te dejan marcando ocupado o como sea con muchas interrogantes-O sea que Zelazny debe estarse riéndose de todos los giles que todavia estan tratando de hallarle un sentido más profund
Y como Dos los capitulos en que aparecen todo el resto de personajes, a quienes repartió como cartas entremedio de sus Uno (con eso de que el tiempo no es estrictamente lineal, ven) , saltandose y dejandote a ti tratando de ver de que va la historia mezcla de misterio , fantasia, y ciencia ficcion.Esta carretera que va por todos los siglos, que contiene muchos senderos olvidados, es recorrido por cantidad de viajeros que andan, pues, en busca de algo...
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Leaves of Grass: "Roadmarks" by Roger Zelazny(Original Review, 1980)I am confused, perhaps someone can explain this apparent error to me: (See pg 147 (Del Rey edition)): Randy and Leila are talking at a bar with "Leaves of Grass" (the book/microprocessor) on the table.
However, Zelazny appears to get confused and bring "Flowers of Evil" (the other book/mp in the story) into the scene from out of nowhere and then it just as mysteriously leaves the scene; "Flowers said..." Am I confused or is Zelazny?
“Roadmarks” is a pretty confusing book and so I can easily imagine having missed a scene someplace.
Another book I read years ago and wore out. I wish I could find a copy of this one. What a fanciful take on time travel and existence. I suppose it was (again) back in the 70s that I read this one the first time. Even though I have a couple of good used book stores I frequent, i never see it. That's a good recommendation in itself, no one lets go of it.
I’m thinking it hard.)This book is one of those that will suck you in with its solid 1-2 punch of premise + cover art: time is represented by a highway where exits can take you to various historical moments spanning over past and future centuries.Now, look at the cover of the book.
See the beaten-up blue pickup driving down the desert road with the “Last Exit to Babylon” sign, think of the premise, and tell me you’re not interested in reading the book.
Already sadly half-forgotten, Roger Zelazny was one of the best science fiction/fantasy writers in the generation that came after the golden era greats like Asimov, Heinlein, Wyndham and Clarke.
Objects and people seem to change without reason - but all will become clear in what is one of the best time travel stories I know.
The way it is used is wonderfully casual - at one point, for example, we meet an ex-crusader making a living by washing car windscreens.The book's one flaw is something that dogs much of Zelazny's work (and may be why he wrote with co-authors so frequently) - he appears to have been rather a quick and dirty writer.

I mean it: spoiler city ahead.This is one of Zelazny's more cryptic works and I seem to like it more each time I read it. It's structured in a way that requires attention in order to gain comprehension and I wonder if it influenced the structure of Use of Weapons? Reading it twice makes it all pretty clear if one doesn't quite get it first time round. THIS REVIEW HAS BEEN CURTAILED IN PROTEST AT GOODREADS' CENSORSHIP POLICYSee the complete review here:http://arbieroo.booklikes.com/post/33...
Amazing book, playing with time in a very clever way.
When the first chapter was titled TWO I looked to see if my book was damaged!
I loved how time was consistent in the ONE chapters and the character of Red has all the Zelazny trademarks.
Loved the references to famous poets and the Marquis de Sade was a hoot and a holler.
I read this in a single day and encourage anyone to do the same, it will help keep track of the characters.
After I finished I immediately went back thru the other chapters to piece things together.
For a 20 year old kid thumbing across America, the road is a mythic place, a world of its own, scattered with all times and all things, where every mile promises adventure and every smile insinuates deep leagues of knowing.
When I was 20 years old and first read "Roadmarks," I was fresh out on the road and certain that the asphalt stretched out infinitely.
Now, as I've gotten a bit older and have become a house-dog, every time I go back to read the book I find myself identifying just a little bit more closely with Red Dorakeen's quest for an exit to his past.
The protagonist is an especially gifted man who travels the road in a blue Dodge pickup, trying to change the past in order to find his way home.
Not much is explained in the book, but if you have some knowledge of quantum mechanics you will see the road as a worldline connecting ‘histories’, or values of the wavefunction of the universe, that have the highest probability.
The topography of the road is changing all the time in response to the actions of those who travel it.
Banks: there is a lot in this book that you will like.
Amber in miniature.
We have a gifted caste who can traverse the multiverse, but the multiverse is smaller -- world history plus some alt-history forks; the talent is inherited, but the dynastics are reduced to a single father-son deal.
20th-century American idiom, attitudes and technology are juxtaposed against fantasy/historical fiction tropes, but the latter are never treated very closely.
And there's a conception of plot arc in there, somewhere, but the actual plot just sort of shambles randomly along on three legs.And it's pretty short, so things feel rather hurried.
Another great novel from my writing hero Roger Zelazny.
Zelazny has a way of completely breaking my brain in all the best ways possible.The Road is, roughly, a means of traveling through time -- not just the time that has happened and will happened, but also the time that might have happened or might yet happen.
I don't want to prejudice myself too much, and other people may have different ideas of what constitutes a spoiler than I do.
It's the sort of "maybe I'm missing something?" moment that makes me want to stick the book back on my to-read list to pick up later and look at again.
Kiire ja terav tekst, täiesti üheselt dialoogipõhine ilma liigsete kirjeldusteta, jättes sel moel absoluutselt kõik su oma fantaasia hooleks.
See kirjeldamatus annab loole veel oma vindi ajatust (minu silme ees oli ajastud ja võimalikke reaalsusi ühendav Tee ikka jupikese kabedam pildil kujutatust ning kordades-kordades uhkem esmatrüki kaanele joonistatust).Sci-Fi ja Fantasy täiesti Zelaznylikult segapudruke keeratud ning siis kõrvetavkuumalt lugejale ette söödetud.
Ja ikka veel oli kõik loogiline ning detailne ning igati hoogne.
Ainult kahest asjast mõtlesin ma seda lugedes veel lisaks: sel autoril oli mingi oma teema nii maanteel kulgemise kui ka surematuse kontseptsiooniga (olgu, eri ajastute väsimatu vaatlemise, kõrvutamise ja kaasa elamisega).
It's a deceptively quick read but it's kind of easy for the whole thing to go whooshing by without making any sense.
It kinda requires Cliff's Notes, or several readings, to make sense of.
It's got some utterly visionary concepts in it, and I liked the characters well enough, but overall I was left feeling like it was a little empty compared to his earlier work.
It doesn't quite come together into a fully-realized novel, but feels like a series of interesting sketches.Nonetheless, if you like Zelazny's work it's a must-read for the style, the characters, and the concepts.
The inside cover says that Zelazny started writing when he was twelve. Did he write this one when he was twelve? Because it has all the hallmarks of it. Cardboard characters, gratuitous Hitler, killer monks, Dei ex machina, dragons, a really tortured metaphor for time travel, and lots of cigars. Have I complained about Zelazny's obsession with smoking yet? It was even a plot point in the isle of the dead, something about the material that pipes are made out of. Of all the incredibly jarring garbage points of these books, I think the smoking is the worst.
Доживях да не ми хареса нещо на Роджър Зелазни, един от фаворитите ми.Даже не мога да повярвам, че същият автор е писал Хрониките, Господарят-демон, Една нощ през самотният октомври и още големи шедьоври.Давам му тройка, само защото...все пак е Зелазни!
Excellent selection of short stories by one of my top 5 favorite SiFi/fantasy writers. Very recommended
A favorite of the Spouse. I liked the concept, but it didn't really suck me in.
I am currently rereading this book which I first read over 20 years ago. I've recently been rereading many Roger Zelazny books.
Roadmarks (1979) engrossingly fleshes out the notion that the turnings off a metaphysical freeway might constitute turnings in Time rather than space.
