https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/688663.The_Art_of_Simple_Food
I do note that when shopping for ingredients and making sure you have everything you need for the dish it does require a little more effort - not a significant enough reason not to prefer this way of setting out a recipe.The book doesn't explain that it is divided into 2 sections the first being stock dishes and the second being nuances on the basics.
I love that Alice explains in each section the method that should be used for preparing something - and also why it is important.
For those who do not - she is the "mother" of the farm to table movement.
Her restaurant is world famous for its sustainable foods that she grows herself or she ensures that it comes from a sustainable source.
It's a movement that is brilliant and growing, spreading across America and the world.
The book contains notes from Waters, ideas, lessons regarding sustainable foods and growing your own food and then, of course, recipes for her mouth-watering dishes.
If you never have tried any of her recipes or perhaps you've never heard of her, then this is a must read.
I just love Alice Waters and appreciate her purpose in writing this.This isn't so much a "cookbook" as it is a book that tries to educate on how to approach food differently, to get our minds out of the increasingly fast-food mentality.If someone who didn't know Alice Waters' goals were to pick it up, they might be disappointed with the cursory, almost random-seeming and too-simple recipes.
They read like conversations with Waters, who uses them as vehicles to illustrate her approach to fine ingredients and techniques.
I really liked this book. It has wonderful, simple recipes and explanations on technique. I liked that it gives recipes according to season, so that you can utilize the seasonal fruits and veggies.
Cooking at its most fun and most rewarding is a finite durational experience that ends in extreme and refined pleasure for the self, involving careful measurements at the same time as improvisation, flights of fancy and reliance on tradition, exact timing, balance, adjustments, erasures, additions, quick-thinking, manipulation of space-time and its various constituents, a simultaneous utilization of the ocular, aural, gustatory, and tactile sensations- a virtuoso display of body-mind-memory-precognition prowess!The Art of Simple Food gives you the ideas, the basics, the techniques, the reasons, the rationale, the ins-and-outs-and-hows-and-whys.
In fact, many involve a bechemel and butter's her best friend: however, the very ground work of this book teaches the most rudimentary basic that most Americans seem to be missing: TASTE your food, love your food--value what you put in your body, love the taste, no matter how simple, and if it's not good, don't eat it.Amazingly, the other aspects of a healthy lifestyle magically fall into place: recycle, compost, eat seasonally and locally, as well as diversely.
I know from experience that the secret to really good food is to take really good ingredients and prepare them simply, and I try to apply that to my cooking.But I still found this book intimidating and inaccessible.
I mean, someone asked her what to cook when you're not trying to entertain eight people, and her list of "everyday" meals includes roast leg of lamb with tapenade, onion and anchovy tart, and braised pork shoulder with shell bean gratin.
I don't know about you, but those aren't everyday foods for me.
Sure, they fit the "simple" definition if you mean an unfussy preparation.
This makes me feel less like a food-loser when I can't find something for a recipe.
Everything still turns out delightful.Sheela - Brussels Sprouts Gratin: Beautiful, special, tasty, crispy, cheesy awesome.
Me - Pot Roast: Succulent, perfect instructions.
Made me feel like almost as good a cook as my momis.Molly - Red Pepper Soup: Molly knows her way around soup.
This one was a perfect starter/side.
Normally not a big cake eater (sheela's baking is the exception).
I found this one really pleasant.I've also done her roast chicken for my husband and me.
Although it contains a small cookbook within a cookbook, The Art of Simple Food is more of a how-to book, with an emphasis on ingredients and technique, rather than on a comprehensive list of recipes.
This is a good book for someone wanting to change their relationship to food because Water's insistence upon quality and integrity encourages thoughtful and appreciative eating.There are, however, some disappointments in this book.
Many of these recipes are so simple they can be found nearly anywhere; I was hoping for classics with a Waters twist.
Some recipes require ingredients that might be hard to obtain.
None of the recipes contain nutritional information.
The author, the owner of a lovely, but upscale restaurant, talks about food and cooking in a very down to earth way.
Her premise is that anyone can cook and the only things you need are good ingredients (especially fresh local produce/herbs), good equipment (but not necessarily the most expensive), and the basic know-how.
I'm sure it's a great book and all, but I lost interest immediately after the first few pages because of the misnomer.
At first it talks about local and sustainable eating practices which is all fine and good...but then the following names of the recipes and the ingredients/methods required were ANYTHING but Simple.
Are we talking about the same book?
Maybe I happened across a few recipes with ingredients I've never heard of?
I guess that's what I get for reading a few pages in the front, randomly picking a few in the middle, and then closing the book.
This is an excellent cookbook. True to its title, the recipes are simple and delicious.
These principles have less to do with recipes and techniques than they do with gathering good ingredients, which for me is the essence of cooking." Key aspects of her "philosophy" are printed on pages 6-7, among which are: eat locally and sustainably (use small, local producers as sources of fruits and vegetables, for instance); eat seasonally (a companion rule to the previous one); shop at farmer's markets; etc.
Anyhow, this is a nice reference for those who enjoy cooking; it's probably also apt to be useful to those who don't like much cooking but want some doable and good recipes when called upon to fix up a meal.
If you're going to be cooking with all fresh ingredients, you're going to have to do more frequent shopping than I'm used to doing, living out here in the boonies like I do--or, you're going to have to grow more yourself, which is something I'm working on.
You're also going to have to learn to USE what you have WHEN it's fresh and good--no putting a planned meal off for a later date, because then your ingredients will spoil.
This is a book for people who cook at home regularly--the recipes are, as advertised, simple and yet not so simple as to be disappointing.
The first half of it reviews useful basic techniques such as making salads, simple vegetable soups, and slow-roasting meats.
There's a spying quality to this book--part of its appeal for me is that it feel like I've gained access to Alice Waters at home.
I suspect that it's a perfect book for someone who is just learning the basic cooking techniques.
It features a particularly long section on vegetables, which is not too surprising considering that this is Alice Waters, but still exciting.
Last fall I was obsessed with her ratatouille - and the other recipes in this book are just as good.
It has a helpful list of recipes that can be made from items generally at hand ("Cooking from the Pantry").
The next few chapters handle basic techniques - making a sauce and vinaigrette, putting together a salad, making different types of broths and soups with what's on hand.
I have pretty much stuck to the salad and vegetable chapters, but there are many other sections - including ones on meat and desserts (this is not a super-"crunchy granola" type cookbook).
It's Alice Waters - how could I turn it down?This book seemed to be much ado about nothing, but has grown on me considerably.
It does have a much more narrative feel that most recipe-by-recipe books; Waters simply talks about particular foods in each chapter, stopping for a recipe when it seems apt.
Her personality comes through in full as a result, and if it's a fairly quiet personality, it has authority and assurance to go with it.
It's a book you mine slowly, then, instead of flipping through.A valuable visit with a self-recommending author whose love of food comes through at every turn.
Light on the recipes, heavy on technique & the Alice Waters philosophy that makes her school of cooking a modern classic.
I love the thoughtful & detailed instructions and suggestions for making things that had previously intimidated me.
I brought this book home from the library and immediately started making pasta by hand for the first time.
It turned out great, and I finished the meal thinking, "Homemade ravioli wouldn't be hard at all!" Also, being a flex-itarian who rarely prepares meat or poultry at home, I can use the back-to-basics lessons on cooking animals.
I got this from the library, and I've already tried two recipes.
The recipe for doctoring up olives transformed my too-acidic farmers market olives into a tasty treat, and the one for salsa verde was the perfect excuse to buy (and for once, use!) chervil.
It made a delicious sauce for fried eggs this morning.___I probably don't need to own this, as the philosophy is similar to Deborah Madison's.
There are a few recipes I do want to try, but that will have to wait until I get it back from the library (again!).
I borrowed this from the library.I was intrigued by everything I've heard about Alice Waters. I think I could really learn a lot about cooking from this book (since I'm cooking impaired). But I doubt that the recipes will work for me as I go back to work in the fall and am increasingly pushed for time to make dinners.I love reading about her ideas on buying good equipment and eating seasonally. Unfortunately, not all of us have such access to incredible farmer's markets and must make do with Safeway, etc for our produce.
This book is an essential primer for the preparation of simple delicious food from the Slow/Local/Sustainable Food guru herself Alice Waters. Instructions that bring you belong just picking up your organic milk and gourmet pesto at Wholefoods and calling it a day. This book teaches you the fundamentals so you can do it yourself: roasting the perfect chicken, making aioli, pesto, salsa verde, soup, bread, an array of delicious veggies, deserts/tarts and much more. A great reference to have on the kicthen counter at all times.
It's come to my attention that some of you poor suckers don't live in a Mediterranean climate. Get another book, possibly one with tater tot casseroles. But hey, it's an Alice Waters cookbook- it has recipes for actual meals, (The other ones? Get twelve pounds of salmon and some truffles. Set aside eight hours to cook.) and I read it all the way through.Also, I cooked a dinner for m future in laws out of this. They are super fussy, I spent less than $40 and two hours, and it was incredible. Fantastic. Heavenly.
The best cookbook I own. Okay, so I haven't made everything in it, but, so far: My own mayonnaise, Salsa verde, focaccia, bread, pasta, salad with blood oranges, poached pears, and incredibly good brined roast chicken. Other stuff, too. This cookbook is a fabulous way to learn how to make basic stuff taste wonderful. I make something different from it every weekend, and everything so far has been a winner and an accomplishment!
After receiving this as a gift several years ago, I'm finally getting into it. I cannot say enough good things about it. And I don't need to - it's a classic. I will say that this is not a book of recipes; This is a book about how to cook. I'm reading it cover to cover, and I'm convinced that's the only way to do it. Every recipe I've tried has been simple and delicious. Eating locally, letting good ingredients shine...this book is what I'm about. I love it.
Just bought it at Costco. Ironic isn't it? Don't tell Alice.Love it! I have a million 'simple' cookbooks. For some reason this one is the most inspiring. I want to make fresh pasta, simple tomato sauce, yummy salad dressings...stay tuned to see if I actually do.
When following the fried chicken recipe, COVER THE FRYING PAN.
Read for Try Something New - a book club for people who like to share food and conversation. The food was excellent but most of us found the recipes annoying to follow. Directions to do something on page 225 and how to do the something on page 278, for example. However the result were truly delicious! I made Leeks Vinaigrette and every one loved it - including my son who got the leftovers and thinks everything should have bacon.
3.5 I love the way that Alice Waters describes the ingredients that she discusses in this book. You can tell that she has a real reverence for food. With that being said I feel like so many of the things discussed are skills I already possess. I was hoping for a more integrative approach to technique in cooking than food philosophy and recipes.
My partner and I call this book our "food bible". I have learned so much valuable information about food, how to cook it, and what to buy. If you want to learn how to make food that is simple and delicious, I highly recommend this cookbook. It's also a fantastic tool for developing a skillset since Waters gives detailed explanations on how to cook certain staples.
Loved this book! Lots of reading interspersed with the recipes here so be prepared to have this book out on your lap for reading. From this book, I made ratatouille and I loved it. My library's Cookbook Book Club meeting was held this past week. We had 9 attending, including me, so I got to try 8 other recipes and they were all fantastic! Everyone in the group was pleased with this book.
