https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/526024.Coolie

For book lovers from India, there are some few writers who are must read for them considering the kind of role the writers have played in Indian writing over the decades and also considering the quality of their writings.
Rabindranath Tagore, R.K. Narayan, Kamala Markandeya are a few of the names that comes to my mind.
Add to that the name of Mulk Raj Anand, one of the finest writers of India.
It is an absolutely savage book on par with Kamala Markandeya's "Nectar in a Sieve".
Absolutely highly recommended must read by every Indian book lover.
Anyone who is willing to look at the lives of the majority of mankind needs to read this story.this living tale will fill the reader with the way the poor since birth live and the way they disappear with little concern by the other human beings.
The visual depiction of the coolies as sweating, dusty bodies, the factory as a dark dungeon , of big cities , rich elites, pavements is striking and occupies a corner in your mind.
I think the current situation for the worker is not different from the one mentioned by Anand.Kindly read this heart wrenching , brutally direct journey of Munoo,the coolie.
Heart rending, yet I believe it must be very very accurately described, and so we can learn a lot from this book."A study in destitution""India seen third-class""Anand's social angers"Seems to me the author wants to show us the real-life suffering of the masses of working Indians, and the details of their severe exploitation by fellow Indians [and occasionally by English colonials] - by moneylenders, shopkeepers, factory owners, overseers.There are bits of humor and lots of bits of human compassion in between all the cruelty.Half the novel is in Bombay, where Northerners [like Munoo] seek out each other and share each other's poverty.Two friends Munoo makes [in Bombay and later in Simla] are labor union organizers, giving the author a chance to show something of this aspect.
After completing this book, I placed Mulk Raj Anand among my favorite Indian writers in English.
Just at the cusp of boyhood, Munoo was sent away to work as a servant in the house of a rich baboo.
There is no love among the rich, only false pretenses and greed.
It is the poor who love unconditionally.
Just like the poor beggar sharing his scanty meal with his beloved dog.
This book also reminds us of the sweat and toil of innumerable coolies, upon whose hardwork the nation is built.
lover of your sister - translitterations galore - could be forgiven considering Mr Anand lived in an era where English was still considered a province of the WASP Anglo-Saxon and the vernacular pride hadn't evolved beyond the general pride resulting from the freedom struggle. In today's environs much of the nativity would have found it's way into the text directly, instead of the seemingly apologetic trans-litteration that litters this book. Detracts to an extent from the prose.Nor is the makeup or development of Munnoo the coolie explored in much depth. Promising. Disappointing.
An educational and interesting look into colonial India of the 1930s. Fascinating to see what has changed in today's India, and most importantly what has not. Recommended.
Reading about the lives of people at the time of Independence and somehow connecting it with the stories of our parents and grandparents is one of my favorite things to do.
In his journey from hills to Bombay and then to Simla, Munoo experienced everything.
Being surrounded by 100s of people and still feeling so alone, this story made me realize that the life of an orphan is never easy.
In this journey which consisted all the emotions from pain, sympathy, happiness and adventures I loved this book thoroughly.
‘Coolie’ would be an obvious choice for readers who wish to understand how life in pre-independent India was for people who occupied the bottom most rung of the society.This is the second Mulk Raj Anand novel I read, the first being Untouchable.It tells the story of a 14year old village boy Munoo and the plight he suffers at the hands of the ‘dignified’ members of the society who make up the upper crust.
The most striking resemblance between the two groups was their conformance to the belief that the poor existed only to be trampled upon.By a cruel turn of events Munoo is forced to leave Bombay and reaches Shimla where the novel reaches a tragic end.
Anand paints a world in the colours of Hardy or Chekov.
Munoo, the young coolie boy, and all his well wishers who he meets along the way, live a life of need.
Theirs is a world of exploitation, of societal cruelties, and structural rigidities that keep them mired in their circumstances.
And in that world of sweat and blood, Munoo, in his innocent youth aspires, reaches, hopes, loves, and blushes, often unaware of the depth and complexities of the apathy and injustice around him.
The book's message, indicative of Anand's era, is still true today, despite its historical setting.
"Coolie", an extraordinary tale of a common village orphan, illuminates with touching clarity the state of affairs in pre-partition India that is all too often fogged over with romanticist nostalgia.
The reader sees this world through the simple eyes of Munoo, the tragic archetype of his age and era, but nonetheless is afforded a panoramic view of that world itself - from the blazing furnaces of the coal-powered factories, to the dry croaking of the wheels on the tonga, to the swarming buzz in the fruit market.
This novel effectively depicts the sufferings of labourers through the story of Munoo, the protagonist.
Munoo, an orphan brought up by his uncle begins the journey of his life from his village and going through many places say various stages of miseries, dies of consumption in the end.
The story of the novel covers many dark aspects like voluptuousness, communalism, hypocrisy, misuse of religion etc.
Activities of the characters are so naturally depicted that they seem to be materialized.
As for language, the dialogues are quite appropriate considering the characters.
They make the narration even more natural.Summing up, Coolie is an excellent depiction of the troubles faced by the exploited working class.
As you probably know, Anand was an Indian who lived for roughly the entire 20th century and gained an international reputation for his bleakly realist social commentary novels written in English.
This is his second of five novels.
Although his usual biography states that he was moved to write by the inequities of the Indian caste system (his first novel was called Untouchable), it strikes me that his communist engagement in the 30s and 40s causes him at times to more broadly characterize the problem simply as the oppression of the poor by the rich.
This is not a 'feel-good' read, but it is fascinating and well-written.It is a heart-rending description of a young boy's suffering as he moves from one place to another in India in search of work and shelter.It may be an unfair criticism but when I read this book as well as Untouchable, I felt that the Indian author, who had received his university education in England, was writing for an English audience rather than for Indians. There is, of course, nothing wrong with this, but I felt that I was reading an English author rather than an Indian one.
After reading RK Narayan's novel, I became accustomed to the slow paced books. Yet another book of the similar type, Coolie, was also from my college library. Mulk Raj Anand is simply superb in creating such an image where it sometimes makes us hate life. I was literally living with the characters when I read the book. Their sufferings, and the arrogance of those with money all were not just written, but painted. Yeah, this one's a good book.Verdict: A nice book to read, though you might wanna collect some patience for reading slow pace books.
of all Indian authors, i love Mulk Raj Anand the best. it shows the pre-independence India from an Indian perspective. most british authors revile or pity at being Indian. but Mulk does it the other way around. he sees the Indian way of life and its hardships and its boundaries. a sad ending to this book. a story of the still continuing saga of child labor, exploitation and abuse in India and its lack of security for the poor.
In this book, Mulk Raj Anand establishes himself as the Indian Charles Dickens. In a very Dickensian plot, a young man is ripped from the stable, clean and yet smothering world of rural poverty and deposited in the volatile, grimy and explosive world of urban poverty. Munnoo, or Coolie, as he comes to be known never gets his deliverance like either Oliver Twist or Pip, however. That is the difference between economical inequities created by industrialisation and those created by colonialism.
There's not much here that we don't already know, and one does feel every now and then that the author manipulates the characters/plot to elicit more sympathy from the reader. Some of the characters seemed almost Bollywood-ish (Ratan, for instance). One can see that Anand was moved by the poverty he saw around him, which is why he wrote this book. All in all, a good read, but nothing exceptional.
Coolie portrays the adventures of a young sixteen year old boy Munoo. Munoo, at best, is like a universal figure who represents a passion not only for India but also the human race. The story of Coolie is a fight for basic survival that shines through with a raw sense of urgency while also highlighting the grim fate of the masses in a pre-partition India. Mulk Raj Anand's picture of Munoo is real, comprehensive and subtle.
Anand hung out with the cool kids of Bloomsbury for some years before snubbing that scene. Interestingly, he consciously imitated Joyce's Portrait and envisioned himself as a Stephen/Joyce figure forging the consciousness of India in the smithy of his soul. Untouchable and Coolie are terrific reads and offer very interesting commentary on Indian gender/caste constructions.
Couldn't finish reading this book.After Mulk Raj Anand's 'Untouchable', I had very high expectations set with this one. Read half way through but couldn't push my self further.The book isn't unworthy but keeps a pace too slow to have me reading.
An interesting read. Initially started to read for the college assignment purpose, but then was intrigued by the young character's trials and harships and his hard life. What a vivid picture potrayed by the author. Didnt know India did have such gems of a writer...
creates a memorable character Munoo, through him we look into the plight of the poor in the British times. The novel also gives a glimpse into the lives of the Britishers, different from the stereotypical images we have been receiving through Bollywood movies all the time.
I thoroughly enjoyed reading Coolie. M.R. Anand sahib detailed the landscape, scenes very well. I went back to the time of story and envisioned myself amongst all the characters. It soaked me completely. Loved it.
tragic but lovely. highly recommended for any interested in Indonesia or colonial era literature. a very nice translation too, reads like original language.
real picture of post colonial india..................
Exceptionally well written and told by mulk raj anand. Great to read.
Read this book as a part of an assignment.It was one of the painful books ever to read.But at the same time, it was one of those books which genuinely urges you to do something.
Probably the first Indian author to write about the dark spots of the Indian society during the pre-independence staqge in such a elaborate and fancied manner.
