https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/38340.Syntactic_Structures
long time ago already!) where the rest of linguistics was perhaps staying in that same box a bit too much.
He looks at the description of language in a fresh new way which offers all scholars of language food for thought.Nevertheless, as a modern linguist, I can't help but see this book as 'the one that started it all', by which I mean many decades of linguistics based on a certain assumption that has yet to be proven - Universal Grammar.
I've never read a work of Chomsky's that was well-thought-out and methodologically sound. From his political writings to his linguistic concepts, he seems to favor grand, unsubstantiated ideas. I have written a fuller account of my disappointing experiences with Chomsky's work here.
Hari ini kita membaca buku ini, tidak ada banyak perkara yang membuat kita teruja kerana sakin banyaknya kajian kajian terkini yang kita telah baca berkenaan Ilmu Linguistics. Tetapi 60 tahun lalu, penulisan inilah yang telah menghadirkan satu gesaan baru untuk menghubungkan antara sains dan ilmu Bahasa. Bagi menerangkan perihal pengolahan sintaksis dengan pembuktian saintifik.
"Colorless green ideas sleep furiously"
the linguistic revolution begins... until he changes his mind ... and then it begins again!!! ... until he changes his mind ... an- well, we'll get there eventually. these things take time.
JohnsonNoam ChomskyThe theories of the world’s best-known linguist have become rather weirdMar 26th 2016in:http://www.economist.com/news/books-a..."Mr Chomsky says those who disagree with his ever-more contentious ideas are either blind or hucksters".
Thrilling. I have no formal background in linguistics and so was completely unable to situate _Syntactic Structures_ in its proper historical or argumentative context, but I found it lucid, engaging, and completely convincing.
The book where it all began. It's a (relatively) clearly written book, and very useful in reviewing higher concepts about what we do when we work in transformational grammar. The chapter on syntax and semantics is especially lovely---that one gets 5 stars.
Chomsky's "Syntactic Structures" deals with purification and establishment of a theory of syntax. There are certain arguments in this book which I could not get at all, for instance his notion and use of "simplicity" in choosing the better grammar is questionable, as he himself confesses that this approach was left unanalyzed. There were very bright ideas in it but i have to say that sometimes his arguments weren't acceptable or weren't sound. Anyway it provides a good insight into the theory of syntax for those who are not familiar with linguistics.
To a reader in 2015, this book isn't nearly as eye-opening as it must have been when it was published nearly 60 years ago. Most of what's in here is taught in Linguistics 101 classes, so without the background of what was previously "common knowledge" in linguistics, it's not as groundbreaking as its reputation makes it seem. That being said, though, it's still "Syntactic Structures," for chrissake, right? Some of the transformations are a bit hard to follow, especially for someone without a solid background in syntax (like me).
Buku ini mengkritik tentang tata bahasa yang terbatas yang dikembangkan oleh para linguist Amerika jamannya Bloomfield karena dianggap tidak memadai dalam menjelaskan keterbatasan bahasa manusia. Chomsky menawarkan generative grammar yang kemudian menjadi aliran tersendiri dalam linguistik. Buku ini merupakan karya revolusioner Chomsky yang dapat mengubah pandangan mengenai bahasa.
this works well as a streamlined introduction to a fairly complicated idea. a lot is left out purposefully, and the jargon-heavy sections can be a tough slog to someone who's not very well-versed in basic linguistic theory/vocabulary (prepare to do a lot of backtracking, too). but the main ideas become much more clear and salient as his argument progresses.
Bilinç ve söz dizim arasında kurduğu yenilikçi bağlantılarla kendinden sonraki teorilerin çoğunda -çürütülmek için bile olsa- fikirleriyle iz bırakmış bir dilbilimci Chomsky. Dilbilim alanında detaylı eğitim almamış okurların bile ufak araştırmalar yaparak okuduğunda çok şey kazanacağı bu kitapta, insanın dili nasıl işlediğini ve kullandığını merak eden herkes için ilgi çekici kısımlar var.
i don't know a lot about linguistics but it seems like chomsky has done a pretty good job of explicating not just a way in which grammatical sentences can be constructed, but the way in which the grammar of sentences is naturally understood. obviously only scratched the surface, but was easy to understand/full of examples. good introduction to his basic idea of generative grammar or w/e
As a student, teacher and growing scholar of the English language, this book was vital to my progress. Chomsky thinks inventively, as well as intuitively, about the nature of language and its relationship with generative grammar. The man continues to impress me considerably.
I found this book surprisingly relevant, after all this time, to current debate in linguistics, and also surprisingly accessible (likely even to non-linguists). This probably says more about my expectations than about the book itself, however.
The book is very beneficial,profitable and helpful for all researchers in the field of syntax and parsing. I consider Chomsky as a father of all recent linguists.
The seminal book in the development of Chomsky's "generative grammar," a major influence in modern linguistics.Not for the faint of heart.
I really didn't get this.. maybe I'll re-read it after I've explored over books. ;)
It's a classic, but it's not very well written.
I envy his deftness in making use of so simple words to convey so much meaning. The style and structures of writing are unique and appreciated by many. Excellent book for learners of linguistics.
I like it
A fantastic exploration of his own internal dialogue abilities.
Not for the novice (e.g. me)
A dense monograph, to say the least.
The sacred texts that started everything will never age.
Es el comienzo. Eran otros tiempos. Es Chomsky.
I'm glad I read it, and I'm glad it's over. ;) You can see my review here.
Haven't finished it yet, but I think I see where he's going with it.
