https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/925166.Squanto_Friend_Of_The_Pilgrims
I mean....I guess this book has a relatively accurate timeline of major events, but I really don't think it should be classified as nonfiction (as it was at my library). To me, it's historical fiction, since Bulla made up the quotes, feelings, and even some actions, of multiple historical figures. The story is sympathetic to Squanto and the other Native Americans, but at the same time, it often feels very...congratulatory (?) to the white men. It gave me the creeps.
I enjoyed this book although it different from Squanto and the miracle of Thanksgiving.
Which confused me a bit.
But once I read to the end, I realized that it just had more information in it than the other one did.
Squanto and the Miracle has 37 pages and this one has 106, so of course it has more information.
It's still quite the miracle that Squanto had his adventures in Europe and therefore learned English which enabled him to help the Pilgrims far more and far more quickly than he would have been able to with the language barrier.
BOTH are very much worth reading.
I love Squanto. He was such a great guy. Every account I read, I like him better. I cannot imagine remaining positive after all that happened to him, yet he does. We all need an attitude like his.
Squanto is fascinated with the white men on the big ships that stop outside of his village.
Finally Squanto gets the chance to ride on the big ship and sail to England.
Squanto tires of England and wants to travel back to MA, and return to his family.
Upon his return, he finds his village empty and learns that all the people of his tribe are gone.
He eventually returns to America and befriends the Pilgrims.I had to remind myself that this book was written during a time period in which the author probably thought he was educating readers and showing them early American history.
Although, this book is not really historically accurate, it is a good book to help children see what it might have been like (age level appropriate of course) for Squanto as he met the English, lived among them, was captured, and strives to return home. This is a fairly easy to read with some pictures laced throughout.
This book is very good because it mostly talk about how is the people different from each other. It's also about adventure and going to discover new things .
I think everybody should read this book because I learned stuff about Squanto I did not Know before I read this book.
(My second-grader read this out loud to me - he loves Squanto...this book helped him form a relation to the person & historical time/events. We will probably choose another Bulla for his next!)
This is such a wonderful biography for the lower grade readers (grades 2-4).
It is amazing to see the providence of God in working things out to put Squanto where he did, when he did, to be able to help the English colonists survive.
Squanto suffered a lot, but he was able, as it seems many are not in our PC age, to see that there were good white men and bad white men.
This book doesn't show bad "Indians," but it does reflect accurately the mind sets of good and bad white men during the time in how they relate to the native Americans.
Anyway, the story is wonderful.
I read this one aloud, partnering with my 7 year old son. Clyde Robert Bulla’s books are good ones for this age, but I found myself editing this one a lot as I read, giving Squanto’s sentences all the necessary parts to make him sound like an intelligent human being. In other words, it stereotypes the Native Americans’ speech, which is something that is at best highly annoying and at worst something that creates the wrong image of Native Americans in the minds of another generation of youngsters.
This was a great read-aloud for this week. The kids have been reading a lot of picture books about Thanksgiving and this book helped them to understand the timeline of a lot of the major events. The author did a great job helping the reader feel sympathy for what Squanto went through, and this sparked a lot of good discussions about how to treat others kindly. The kids each commented on how they can be kind and loving to everyone, especially those who are different from them.
Great book about Squanto and his journey to the village. It also recaps his friendship with the pilgrims. Great story and history lesson. Perfect for this time of year. A must read and can’t put down!!!
My son gives this book 5 stars.
I have not stated reading it yet but I think it is going to be a good book.
Good, easy read.
Brings early American history to life
A good elementary level reader about Squanto.
Jude read
This historical fiction book is written with the same feel as "Pocahontas and the Strangers," as being written by the same author.Simple but engaging, suspenseful, and may help students have a better understanding and depiction of the people and events. (삼 학년)
Squanto kicked and fouth. He nearly got free. Then all the others leaped upon him. They pushed his face into the sand. At last he lay still.Someone tied his arms and legs togueter.Two of the men stood him on his feet.What you do? cried Squanto. "Why you do this to me?"When they came to the ship, someone let a tope down over the side. One of the men tied the rope under Squantos arms. "Is it dayor night?" they would ask one another.Sometimes they talked of the white men."they are bad" said Wuwano.
One of the men tied the rope under Squanto´s arms.
I know, because I lived among them".Some of theIndians wept when they talked of their homes and their people.
But they never let the white men know they had wept.Squanto asked John Slanie about them.
" Do you know these people?"No, but I have heard of these poor piligrams, said Slanie.I call them piligrams because they wander here andthere.
They have no real homes, said Slanie.
asked John Billington.This my home, said Squanto."Were you talking to the trees?
asked John Billington.
Story of Squanto aimed at grade and middle school readers who are behind grade level in their reading.
Follows Squanto from his first sighting of a white man's ship to his befriending the pilgrims/separatists.
The story goes with one theory of Squanto's life which has him voluntarily going to London with some traders and then returning to American with Capt.
The kidnapping part is generally agreed upon, the first 1/2 is up for debate, but is apparently why he was convinced that not all Europeans were bad, and therefore was willing to help the pilgrims.
While I really enjoyed the book, I do have a bit of a problem with it being considered nonfiction.
I think it is a great historical fiction piece for children to read, as the added elements make the story come to life, but these added elements also make it far less than concretely factual.
Readers have no idea what information is factual and what information was made up by the author, or even if the information used comes from a credible source.
So, ultimately, I enjoyed reading this book, and I have no problem with children reading it, I just wish that it was not considered nonfiction.
This one's a kids' biography of Squanto, the Patuxet man who supposedly helped the Pilgrims learn to survive in the wilds of North America.
It's an interesting tale, but I was left wondering just how accurate it was.
After years of living amongst Englishmen, Squanto is still talking in broken English.
One would think that he would have at least learned the verb "to be" in that time.
Anyway, maybe this is a faithful recounting of Squanto's life, or maybe it's not.
I don't have the knowledge to truly judge it.
I do know, however, that it wasn't enjoyable enough to rate higher than waiting room material.
David and I read this together in November to prepare for Thanksgiving.
I appreciate how it gives the background of Squanto, and how you can trace God working in his life to prepare him to help the Pilgrims (the book doesn't do this explicitly but it can start good discussions).
David's one complaint was that the book ended too soon--it ends just as Squanto decides to stay and help the Pilgrims.
He wanted to read more detail at the end about the first Thanksgiving, so there were tears at the last page :(.
First this was more of a back story...leading up to "friend of the pilgrims." It is definitely NOT nonfiction.
At one point V asked, "how do they know what he was thinking?" I read this after she talked about the pilgrims and Squanto in school, hoping to get a bit more in depth.
For a K-1 grade level this was good.
The characters were extremely wooden (even more than a typical young reader book.) I didn't know that much about Squanto and was glad to learn more, though I take the facts in the book with a grain of salt.
This is a great biography of Squanto. I find that students don't really know much about him. It describes his difficult life including being captured as a slave twice. After finally returning home to America, he finds all of his family and entire tribe has died of disease. The part about the Pilgrims is only the last chapter or so. A different perspective on the Thanksgiving story. Kids seemed very interested in it! -Susan
1620 New England/ England/ Spain(read aloud with Grace & Ian)The fascinating story of Squanto and how God's providential guiding hand brought him to the aid of the Pilgrims. Some details differed from other historical resources. But, the fact remained that an Indian, experienced in survival techniques in coastal Massachusetts, walked out of the woods and was able to speak to the Pilgrims in english. This quite probably saved many lives in this fledgling community.
A fairly accurate historical fiction (because it has dialogue) for young children. It kept the attention of my five year old in chapter readings. If I did not have older children, I probably would have gone with Eric Metaxas book, which highlighted Squanto's connexion to Providence. The brown robes make an appearance, without too much commentary. Could the book use newer information, yes (Tusquantum instead of Squanto for example) but overall no errors and engaging.
This was a good biography which we will use as a read aloud during our study of the Native American unit in social studies. There was not a whole lot of sentence variety, which would make it a good choice for the students to read themselves. I prefer a bit more thickness to a read-aloud, though, since I can stop and explain tricky or particularly descriptive words or passages. It's hard to model fluency and reading with expression when the sentences are mostly 4 words long.
