https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/278506.The_Flickering_Torch_Mystery
Super cool mystery, I really liked it. The Hardy’s are investigating cargo theft and 2 mysterious plane crashed. What caused them? What is going on? Read this amazing story to find out! 4.5 stars.
As usual the Hardy’s are in well over their heads with a case that they couldn’t possibly solve if it wasn’t for the fact that all their villains are so laughingly obvious and make themselves stand out a mile. Still, it was fun for an outdated kids book.
Another fun mystery in this series.
The Hardy Boys The Flickering Torch's main characters are Frank and Joe Hardy which are walking in his father's footsteps as detectives.
I also really like how the when the author made it so Joe had to hang onto the back of the van cause I thought that was a good idea.
I also really liked how the author made the ending when Frank get saved before the criminals could take off in their plane.I would recommend The Hardy Boys The Flickering Torch to anyone but I would really recommend this book to people that love a really good mystery.
A dual crashing of plans near Bayport has Frank and Joe searching for clues while their father hunts down criminals in the big city - but could something amiss be connecting these two seemingly odd cases and dragging the boys into grave danger? Dixon is sure to have fans eagerly glued to every page of this mystery!
Ate these up as a kid and usually got them as gifts for birthdays, Christmas and other events. This edition would be quite dated now and I believe they have updated the books. The author was a pseudonym for a plethora of writers who contributed to this series.
This review is for the 1971 revised version!Best parts were the climax of the book and the Hardy Boys’ jam sessions. Also the joke about Chet needing a jumbo jet to lift him off the ground.I won’t list the worst parts cause you should just read it and find out. I mean it takes what? A day?
Leslie McFarlane actually apologized for this story. It's... a little weird. Silk moths? Okay. Still better than the revision, which doesn't even have a real flickering torch. Also another great candidate for worst cover.
The classic boy detectives by Frank Dixon--I read ALL of them in my younger years, one I ran out of Nancy Drew books. The Hardy Boys are brother amateur detectives, aspiring to follow in their famous father's footsteps.The two boys live in the fictional city of Bayport (on Barmet Bay) with their famous father, Fenton Hardy, a private detective formerly with the New York Police Department, their mother Laura Hardy (erroneously called Mildred in The Flying Express), and their Aunt Gertrude, a character often used for comic relief.
This is the updated version, with the Flickering Torch being the name of a night club. It was an actual torch in the original. Despite a few references to popular music in the 60s, the story read very well and wasn't otherwise dated. A solid entry in the Hardy Boys series.
This book was very interesting. It has very good conflicts and puts you in suspense. The mystery is fun to solve along with the main characters. The ending is very good and signs off nicely. I would recommend this book to anyone who likes a good mystery.
I think the Hardy Boy books helped me with learning deductive and inductive skills. I had to work through logic. Who knew? I enjoyed all these books.
This review is of the original 25 chapter book.
I read the Hardy Boys books (and Nancy Drew) when I was a child. The stories are old fashioned, but that's why I like them so much.
Read in 2005.
In which young girls are every bit as clever as the guys, grown women dream of housework, and Chet finally gets to do what he God damn wants to and kicks some ass on top of it, too.
They're so hip on this cover...
My book was published in 1971 and has the 1971 cover.
SM
A fun story from 1943 as the boys take on anti-war effort thieves at an experimental farm.
Excellent series for young readers - highly recommended. I read these books when I was 10 - 15 years of age.
This one is cool!
read when I was 10 through 13
My first ever attempt to read a Hardy Boy Mystery Story... It's so blah; I don't like it.
