https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/259319.Good_Morning_Holy_Spirit
This book gave me a great understanding of the need for God's Holy Spirit. He is not some force but a person whom God has sent to help me in my daily walk. I need Him if I'm going to grow and live successfully as a Christian. The first time I read I had misunderstood something about the book. But, I reread recently and I am completely blessed by the ministry of God's Holy Spirit and the privilege of access to Him.
This is not just a book, this is a journy with the Holy Spirit itself! i Loved it, every page really makes you evaluate your commitment with God. Also you see how much Benny Hinn went through before becoming the successful man that he is today. I recommend it to new christians as well as old ones this is the kind of book that every christian needs to read at least once in their life!
Again, biblical behavior leads us to boast of Jesus, not our own deeds.I dislike the arrogance that comes through in this book.
It seems that when one truly becomes immersed in the Holy Spirit, as Paul and Jesus certainly were, they become humble, and emphasize God, rather than their own achievements.
The Trinity is made up of 3 distinct persons, as described at the baptism of Jesus in Matthew 3:13-17.You may be interested to know that Benny Hinn raised money for a private jet, and has made many false predictions.
Created a desire to know the Holy Spirit more.
I never had anyone teach me about Who the Holy Spirit actually was.
Jesus Himself said that He was going back to the Father and was sending the Holy Spirit in His place.
We don't hear the voice of God today as our forefathers did, like Abraham and Moses.
We hear the voice of the Holy Spirit.
Don't you think you should get to know the One Who's talking to you about what God wants for your life?
The book is a master piece that addresses the many error and misconceptions we have been having on the person of the Holy Spirit.
Its a grass to grace, and then grace to grace relationship the Man of God has had and still having with the Holy Spirit.
It brings us to a place of longning for fellowship with God the Father.
So many of the questions that arises within a believer's heart have been generously answered, and beyond that it introduces us to a whole new level of walk with God. Go get it at any christian store.
God bless you!
i learned so much from this book. like, how to deal with God, the Holy Spirit, and how to pray. This is an inspirational book. Irecomend this book for the people who wants to know the power of the Holy Spirit, for all ages.

A great book. Powerful in realizing the Holy Spirit as a person and a friend. I want to read this again.
I first came across this book when I was in middle school.
While reading it, some thoughts I had were: 'If I prayed as much as Benny Hinn did, does it mean that I would be able to talk to the Holy Spirit?' Now I recognize this as a rather gnostic idea, in the way how mortal efforts can lead up to a different spiritual "level".
Also, many of Benny Hinn's "prophecies" are proved to be incorrect.The spirituality of a Christian cannot be "proven" upon the basis of "feelings" and experiences; it should be scripture.
I may not agree with everything about Benny Hinn. Mostly his way of spending and his questionable relationship with his wife. But that does not mean the validity of the move of the Holy Spirit in his life. No body is perfect, and the sooner we learn that the better. With that said, this book is really empowering! The only book I can recall that I finished from beginning to end in one day on a day off. I had a pot of coffee and this book. I could not put it down!
This book changed my life! I never realized I could know God in a personal way. This book tells you how the author did it and how you can do it.
Loved it! Helped me become intimate with the Lord when I was young and I am still falling more in love with Him each day!
we should give God Holy Spirit same as how we worship our God the father and Jesus Christ. we shower him our total devotion and unwavering love.
Book was awesome at explaining the holy spirit and gave me great wisdim/comfort... i did get lost a time or two though cause its mire informative vs exciting ... obviously its not fiction lol
Really enjoyed this book. Read it in one sitting.
I was somewhat surprised by the book. I've never read anything by Benny Hinn, nor have I seen much of him on video, etc; but his writing was very mainstream charismatic, biblical and accessible.He gets a bad rap in many quarters - undeserved if this book is anything to go by.Overall it was a good introduction to the ministry and indeed the character of the Holy Spirit in a believer's life.There was not much "new" to me in reading this, but hearing some of Benny's story and how he has been led by the Spirit in encouraging.
The first time I read it, it was Sunday morning, I was about to get ready to go to church and there was still some spare time left and so I'd got my hands on reading Good Morning, Holy Spirit. I must say, this book makes my soul search for more adventure in terms of my spiritual life. Its amazing to know that we can know Him even more and He can be even more real to us than ever before. The supernatural experience with God is nothing compare to what we can enjoy with our flesh.
A wonderful testimony, which reveals how we too can "get there" too.
Not only does Benny hinn tell his testimony, but he does it revealing how we all can become who the lord called us to be.
A wonderful book.
This really has drawn me hugely closer to the Holy Spirit, led me to repentance in action, and now i refuse to bow to sin, only instead to the lord, and i will never stop asking the Holy Spirit to infill me each morning.
This book is unique in that it draws us closer to Jesus and teaches us what so few truly know in a deep way, the Holy Spirit's role, and how crucial a daily Fresh anointing and infilling is.
This book was an eye opener for me. It has helped me be more sensitive towards the Holy Spirit. I am truly amazed at how personal and powerful the spirit is. This book has changed the way I approach and pray to God.
Wonderful encouragement!Pastor Benny lays a precise pathway to persons wanting to truly live in faith and trust. We cannot do it without the Holy Spirit's Presence in all we are and do. I found myself doing what Pastor Benny taught and my spiritual person is now strengthened.
A very exciting and interesting book that can serve as a good introduction of Holy Spirit.
It's just a bit repetitive.
There is a great message and that message is given again and again.
I think there were a few times where the same thing was said more than once.
The message was given time and time again-page by page, chapter by chapter.Like that.
I highlighted the points that really shook me or made me FEEL and I will probably read over them from time to time in my spiritual journey but I don't think I would read any of his other books.
I can't deal with the repetitiveness.
Amazing. La relación que Benny Hinn tiene con el Espíritu Santo es envidiable. Todo el libro es una sopa de exhortación a perseverar en una relación personal con un Dios que también tiene sentimientos: que llora, que se ríe, que siente cuando es traicionado. Solo con leerlo se puede comenzar a sentir al Espíritu Santo comenzar a obrar en cosas que ni siquiera sabíamos que había dentro de nosotros. Pero no se queda ahí, sino que Hinn nos deja con las ganas de soltar su libro, doblar rodillas y comenzar a buscar algo más grande que él logró tener.
Intimate relationship with Jesus begins when we invite Him to be our best friend and have Him in our everyday moments. Just loved the intense liberty that Hinn expresses about God being love, perfection and someone who is always present, who is waiting for us to ask Him to have the day with. I don't remember when was the first time I've read this book. But I missed the Hinn's words once again. I will "eat" this book in about 2 days.
Menurutku berat bacanya waktu itu, karena tujuan baca buku itu cuma buat dapet "bahasa". Buku ini lebih ke nyeritain pengalaman pribadinya penulis, apa yang dirasakan penulis. Kan biasanya kalau buku rohani (yang pernah kubaca sih) itu nyeritain bagian pengetahuan umumnya juga banyak. Tapi ada subbab yang paling kuinget, subbab yang nyeritain Bapa, Anak, dan Roh Kudus. Mau baca lagi, dulu banyak yang ke-skip bacanya.
I enjoyed the book because it answered questions I had with regard to my own experiences. However if it wasn't for that I think I might bot have enjoyed it. It only makes sense when you're in type of situation.However it is rather practical as it gives you study questions at the end of each chapter, and the author writes about his own experiences. He tells stories to teach the lessons- think that's cool.
Currently reading as part of our Home Cell's spiritual development. On chapter 3...Jesus died but he left the Holy Spirit to fellowship with us. How AWESOME is that?Our encounter with the Holy Spirit is as different as we are. To some, he is bright and big and tangible, to others, he is the 'quite in the storm".I love dit as it made it clear how the universe is working together for my success. I am indeed Blessed and Highly favoured.
It's been a very long time since I read this book, I just remembered I read it during church this weekend and it wasn't on my list. This book was encouraging to me as a young christian. It motivated me to have a deeper relationship with God and the Holy Spirit. He had an incredible experience with God that changed his life as well as those he came into contact with.
The best book how to fellowship with the Holy SpiritEvery year, I make it a point to read this book. Benny Hinn not only shares his experiences with the Holy Spirit; he tells you how to have a deeper fellowship with the Holy Spirit yourself. Every Christian and non-Christian should read this book.
