https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1170416.Her_Father_s_Daughter
Of course she is wholly unspoiled by the world and completely undiscovered by it until one day a boy happens to notice her practical shoes, starting a turn of events that explodes into a many faceted jewel of opportunities.
That would be acceptable to many Stratton-Porter readers (myself included) who have learned to appreciate the bright dreams of Utopian characterization (though I will admit, in my hypocritcal heart, that while I love the "perfection" of her male characters I am often annoyed by the interpretation of it in her heroine's.) It would be dramatically acceptable if not for the eye opening racism that had an appalling, underlying theme.
Of course we can't finish a Gene Stratton-Porter book without the Dickens-like alter ego.
As someone who loves, loves, loves A Girl of the Limberlost, it hurt me to read this racist piece of trash from the same author.
Russell and I were watching a thing on National Geographic about white supremacists, and it reminded me of this book.
I absolutely loved Girl of the Limberlost and Laddie, so I looked for other stuff by this author.
It was mostly the same stuff: nice girl, lots of plants, but there was this sub plot about how we have to keep the white race above all the others.
I was horrified, but I couldn't stop reading.
I also read a short story by L.M. Montgomery that disturbed me in a similar way.
How can I rate this? As a kid I read it over and over. Read again 40 years later I realized how racist it was. Horrors!
A person has to know about the hysteria during WWII to understand the prejudice in this book.
Set in the bucolic rurality of Los Angeles County, circa 1920, Her Father’s Daughter is the tale of Linda Strong, a high school junior who struggles to get from under the thumb of her scheming, shallow sister Eileen.
The author uses the conflict as a frame from which to wax poetic on the wonder of California nature, joy of automobiles and locally-grown foods, silliness of fashionable society… and – most unfortunately – the superiority of white people.I could have brushed aside the lecturing on nature – she really does love her subject and it shows.

Pros - Nature descriptionsCons- Racism (apparently endemic to the time period) ; unbelievably faultless protagonist
Linda apparently gets the shorter end of the stick - she and her sister Eileen are orphaned four years before the plot, and because Eileen is older, she assumes the majority of their income as her own and leaves Linda in rags.
But the author says so many times how unfair Eileen is, and how Eileen gets everything.
Linda sails through the plot with so much confidence and pride that you figure she's doing well enough on her own, and there is no use feeling too sorry for her.
In many ways, Linda just seemed like a version of Teddy Roosevelt, dressed up as a girl.
(Are Greeks and Romans white or persons of color?) Then there's ancient China and India.
The worst part about it is that this was a children's book and who knows how many children have read it from the 1920's on.
Strangely, toward the end of the book she makes a speech praising Native Americans and the damage our civilization did to them.
Oh, well, whoever said racism was rational?But, if you can somehow ignore all that (or, well, at least be prepared for it), the story is typical GSP but not quite fleshed out as it should be: well written, engaging, with a lovable heroine and beautiful descriptions of nature.
I really enjoyed Linda as a smart accomplished tomboy character who is polar opposites with her sister.
The story has a fairy-tale quality to it; Linda is the put-upon, neglected orphan.
It was super entertaining and I really enjoyed that and how Linda is an accomplished naturalist.
It's not realistic--the characters are a bit too good, a bit too evil, and a bit too silly at times.
The plot is far-fetched overall.But I was okay with those things.
And it was central to the overall plot.
So I would not recommend this book necessarily, although I would love to re-write it and tell a better story.

This is one of those books that makes me sad. Gene Stratton Porter was an excellent writer and naturalist. I enjoy most of her work. This book, though, reflects some of the worst prejudices of her time in its anti-Asian bias. I didn't enjoy reading it, but I don't want to forget about it either. It's important to remember that these attitudes existed. The prejudice demonstrated in this book, which was published in the early 1900s, foreshadows the attitudes that led to the internment of the Japanese during World War II.
Times were indeed different back in the days of Gene Stratton-Porter but this book was far too racist and bigoted for me to be happy with. The book is one long lecture on how white people are superior than any other race, and not only that but other races are low and debased. I would not recommend this book to anyone. Too bad that I tarnished the happy memory of some of the better titles by the same author.
So so awful. The creepy older man lusting after 17 year old girl, the killing that was brushed under the rug, the super bratty and controlling heroine, and worst of all the incredibly hateful racism. Steer clear!!!
The scoundrel is dealt with off-page and the questions of intellectual property and honor would have made a more "square" climax than the sensationalized anti-immigration plot.
(I'm not quite curious enough to dig into newspapers of the time to decide if that plot-thread is based on something that happened or if it's fearmongering propoganda.
A Young Woman Who Loves LifeWritten during WWII or soon after, this is the story of a young girl, Linda Strong raised by her Father in California who shares his knowledge of the beauty of the state with her when he was alive.
When her parents pass away unexpectedly, she is left with her sister Eileen in a big house with much wealth.
Her sister wastes much of the money on herself until one day young Linda has an awakening and realizes what is happening.
Romance, enjoyable repartee, California flora and fauna as well as outdoor recipes, and even murder are all pieces of this wonderful old story.
This novel by one of my favorite authors, Gene Stratton-Porter, was rather a surprising read.
The general story line was enjoyable, although perhaps unrealistic, but the racist elements that were espoused by the main character, Linda, were definitely hard to read.
I realize that this novel was written between the time of the two World Wars, and that deep-seated prejudices were more common then, but it bothered me and tainted the story for me.
I still love Gene Stratton-Porter as an author, an have read her novel, "Keeper of the Bees" multiple times, as well as most of her other books.
Nevertheless, I probably wouldn't recommend this particular book to others.
Another good book by Gene Stratton-Porter, but this one was my least favorite of hers so far. Still had that beautiful description, still had the feel of the others; yet at the same time, it didn't as it's set in California and I had a difficult time really liking the main character. Also, I didn't care for the racism in here with the Japanese and in general.
I hadn't read this in a long time, and the bulk of the story was as good and fun as I remembered. Linda is a well-done heroine, and Peter Morrison is an absolutely wonderful guy. The one thing I didn't remember was just how racist (or extremely nationalistic, possibly both) parts of the book could get. xD Ah well.
I love how much she stood by her hearts desires to be true to the girl she is inside! Great book & great author!
This is a pretty good book if you like OLD stories and can overlook some astonishing racism that was prevalent in the 1930's.
A delightful read - solid plot and interesting characters. It's a pity about the blatant racism though...
THIS BOOK! I love it so much! The story, the characters, the nature. . . In my top five by GSP. Sigh, beauty!
When they have got our last secret, constructive or scientific, they will take it, and living in a way that we would not, reproducing in numbers we don't, they will beat us at any game we start, if we don't take warning while we are in the ascendancy, and keep there.""If every home in Lilac Valley had at least six sturdy boys and girls growing up in it with the proper love of country and the proper realization of the white man's right to supremacy, and if all the world now occupied by white men could make an equal record, where would be the talk of the yellow peril?
It is also filled with long rants about the importance of white supremacy and dangers of growing Japanese influence in California, utilizing slurs that were common for the time.
It makes for an uncomfortable reading experience in this modern time, but it serves a vital purpose.
Linda, who spews most of the vitriol, could and did exist.
As someone living in California then, he explained it was necessary because of the hate so many felt against the Japanese - that it was for their safety.
Reading this book, written 20 years earlier, I began to understand the shape of those beliefs.
A joy to read.This book was written at the end of WW I, when the country was recovering from a devastating chapter in its history.
She was one of the leading movie producers in Hollywood and this could have been the start of a romantic picture.But not today.
She uses stereotypes that Hollywood Political Correctness has banned out of existence.
The suspense builds and gets more intense until the ending.
They have a wholesome, innocent, Midwestern charm rarely found, especially not in the four-letter chase-scene-every-chapter made-for-movies drivel too often pushed today.Hope you like this as much as I did.
The Wikipedia article on the author tells well the downside of this book, which reads like a book written by an author who is getting old and wanting to preach her ideas about what is wrong with people these days:"One of Stratton-Porter's last novels, Her Father's Daughter (1921), is set outside Los Angeles.
The lead character, Linda Strong, displays an ugly philosophy regarding Japanese immigrants, portraying them as pawns of the Japanese government, sent here to "steal" an American education, even though highly educated in Japan and far too old for the High School she attends.
I've read most of GSP's books.
This is a book aimed at teens and you can see how "the enemy amongst us" thinking led indirectly to the internment of Japanese Americans during WWII.
However, like the film Birth of a Nation, it gives us real insight into some of the thinking of the time and what led people to believe, say, and act in ways that are incomprehensible to most modern Americans.
For that window into the past, it is worth reading if you have the stomach for it and if you go in knowing what to expect.
All of Stratton-Porter's books have strong heroines and I like that.
In this one, Linda Strong, 17, is dealing with the fact that her older sister, Eileen, seems to have hijacked the family finances after their parents died.
Linda has a few items of old clothing and makes a friend of the boy who confronts her about her wardrobe.
She is finding a way of making her own living with pen and brush while she works out what is going on with Eileen.
Her friend Marian has lost her fiance to Eileen, and goes to San Francisco to be an architect.
