https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16153601-the-hobbit-part-2-of-2
This is a very good book, from what I’ve noticed reading the reviews most of the people that rated it low are saying that because they had to read it at school and had to do loads of tests on it now I’m just saying but maybe if these people tried to read it again then they would enjoy it more.
It took me a while but I finally got this book finished, either because I wasgetting over it or because I was just too busy.I think after half way the story just felt sorta dragged and the middle earthlanguage was sort of annoying to read to be honest.His writing style was amazing and good I loved the first book but I don't knowI think the second book just lacked something.Overall it was an adventurous read but a dragged ending.
Instead he manages to come up with good ideas.During the course of the book Bilbo grows as a character and he leaves the story as another person than when we first encountered him in the beginning.I've first encountered this story by listening to the German audiobook.
While I found Inglis' voice sometimes difficult to understand when I originally listened to his interpretation of the Lord of the Rings years ago, I really enjoyed his narration this time.
After listening to The Hobbit I count Inglis among my favourite authors and this has made me want to re-listen to The Lord of the Rings (of course narrated by Inglis).
Part two of the epic journey of Bilbo Baggins, and his quest to recover the Dwarf treasure from Smaug's lair. Picking up at the group's dangerous trek through Mirkwood, Bilbo & his companions once again find themselves in peril as they venture from the one safe route through the forest. Will they even reach Smaug, or is their quest doomed to failure?
I reread the book in preparation for the movie. I hadn’t picked it up in years because I remembered it asbeing very kiddie, but revisiting the book was great. It was a delightfully quick read. This time through Iliked the winks to the reader, enjoyed the romp of the adventure, and laughed surprisingly often.
Great. Great, great, great. It's hard to be dissatisfied, when you are enjoying your favorite book of all time!Without any offense to Mr. Inglis, does anyone know how we can convince Jim Dale to tackle Middle Earth?
Not surprisingly, I had exactly the same problems with this as I did with part one. I hate that this ended up being a disappointing book for me purely because of the writing style.
Fantastic, as expected. My son and I listened to this in the car on the way to school. It took us a good 5 months, but he loved it.
This audio version of one of my favorites is fantastic. Broken into two parts.
Great reading!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5yJfW...
Plot: AVocabulary: AWriting: ALevel: EasyRating: PG (dragons and other monsters, battles, near-death experiences, hunger, homesickness)Worldview:
Enchanting! JRR Tolkien plus Rob Inglis narrator are pure bliss. (audiobook)
Not as amazing as the LOTR but i enjoyed the story. Tolkien didnt disappoint.
