https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/441818.Fast_One
Gerry Kells, the protagonist, arrives in L.A. and decides he wants to be the top dog of the criminal underworld.
The pace is relentless, and I sometimes got a little lost in keeping up with Kells and all the characters he deals with.
There's not much character development, and Kells remains something of an enigma.
He wants to grab the money, but he can't bring himself to run with it.
I enjoyed the hectic ride of a hardboiled novel that reminds me a little of Dashiell Hammett's Red Harvest.
Paul Cain is a bit of an enigma, a terrific writer who published only one novel and some short stories before pretty much disappearing from print and from history.
(At least, easily uncovered history.) His one novel, FAST ONE, is as hardboiled as anything I've ever read.
The one drawback I have with the book is that the plethora of characters are not well separated one from another, descriptively, and I had a hard time keeping them separate in my mind.
Only reaching midway through the book could I picture an individual whenever I saw a character's name.
What a disappointment.'Fast One' by Paul Cain was recommended to me by GoodReads because I’d read and enjoyed March Violets by Philip Kerr, one of the splendidly subtle and addictive Bernie Gunther books.In the introduction to 'Fast One’, Max Décharné states that if there's a better hard boiled novel than 'Fast One' out there, he's still looking for it.
I flatter myself that I am patient and bright enough to follow the plots of most books but 'Fast One’ defeated me.
Kells, the protagonist of 'Fast One’ is just another gangster, worse still, I am still clueless about his motivation, beyond money, in this confusing, boring book.2/5

It is sometimes difficult to link the chapters up and the story, described on the back cover blurb as 'complex with its twists and turns defies summary'.
those that do get bumped off being as memorable as those who continue through the book - that is until they are also killed.Hard boiled it may be but I find it very difficult to agree with the strapline on the cover of the book which has Raymond Chandler proclaiming, 'Some kind of highpoint in the ultra hardboiled manner!' I would hate to come across a low point in the genre.
Rarely has a more amoral bunch of characters been assembled together in work of fiction.The two main characters no doubt have SOME redeeming qualities, but I can't for the life of me work out what they may be.If you're a fan of hard-boiled noir crime fiction, do yourself a favour and read this.Fast One also appears in this Black Mask omnibus along with many of his short stories; The Paul Cain Omnibus: Every Crime Story and the Novel Fast One as Originally Published
. In addition seven of his Black Mask short stories are available in Seven Slayers
Moreover, there are no good guys and gals, just different categories of bad, like the damned souls in the several levels of Dante’s hell.Otto Penzler made the distinction between Noir and the Hardboiled Detective novel in his excellent Huffington Post Article: Noir Fiction is About Losers, Not Private Eyes.
Here’s a quote from Penzler that applies to Paul Cain’s novel:“Look, noir is about losers.
If you read this novel, don’t try to figure out who’s doing what to whom and why.
It’s a roller-coaster to hell, and if you don’t want to follow that route, by all means skip it.
Πρόκειται για ένα από τα χαρακτηριστικότερα και κλασικότερα σκληροτράχηλα παλπ μυθιστορήματα της τρομερής Αμερικάνικης Σχολής, ένα σχετικά παραγνωρισμένο και ακατέργαστο διαμάντι, που οι πραγματικοί και φανατικοί λάτρεις του είδους μάλλον θα απολαύσουν.Η όλη ιστορία διαδραματίζεται στο Λος Άντζελες της δεκαετίας του '30, κατά την μεγάλη Οικονομική Ύφεση, και είναι γεμάτη γκάγκστερς, πιστολάδες, διεφθαρμένους αστυνομικούς και πολιτικούς, μοιραίες γυναίκες και μικροαπαταιώνες, δηλαδή κλασικές φιγούρες του υποκόσμου.
Θέλω να πω, ουσιαστικά έχουμε να κάνουμε με ένα παλπ μυθιστόρημα γεμάτο βία και ένταση, ο συγγραφέας δεν ασχολείται με βαθύτερα νοήματα ή μηνύματα, οι χαρακτήρες δεν έχουν ιδιαίτερο βάθος και είναι όλοι τους "κακοί", όλα αυτά που γίνονται είναι πολλά και γίνονται γρήγορα, δεν υπάρχει χώρος για συναισθηματισμούς.
It's   SENSATIONAL  Swift and intense; in the mode of the very best hard-boiled crime tradition. A rich discovery of a mostly unknown 1930s talent. Cain clobbers! He whales! Takes names and kicks butt. He goes off. On a rampage. Gotta love it. His technique is superb. Only one down--side, as far as I can see. The side-effect of such a fast-moving tale is: "I can't keep track of who's body that was on the floor a moment ago because another character came in and disposed of it and now the hero is

Clipped sentences that hit like bullets. Hard and fast. There's no grand story here. Just tough men doing dirty business over stiff drinks in the smoky rooms of old Hollywood. Most of them die quick, a few die slow. There are no happy endings.
Doc went to Perry's to see me...What for?
I was with Jack Rose being propositioned to come in with him and Doc, on the Joanna.
They're evidently figuring Fay and Hesse to make things tough and wanted me for a flash."--and--"Rose called Eddie O'Donnell and me after you left him this afternoon.
He said Dave Perry had called while you were there - told him that Doc was at the joint in Hollywood waiting for you...Perry knew Rose was going to have Doc bumped - an' he knew Rose wanted to frame it for you...It looked like a good play."--Hello, come again?
Smart guy Gerry Kells drifts into LA and finds himself in the middle of a crossfire between rival gangs, gangsters and politicians. The tough guy tries to stay alive and play all the angles while surrounded by crooks, cops, vixens, victims and vice. Author Paul Cain paints a dizzying sometimes confusing array of characters who shoot, smash, scream and surrender their way through this blistering paced crime novel. To summarise any fan of Dashiell Hammett’s Red Harvest will find much to enjoy here with this classic slice of hardboiled pulp fiction.
The story travels at a blistering pace, the main character is tough as nails and the story has more twists and turns than a bag of pretzels.This is indeed the type of story Chandler spoke about where a man with a gun is constantly entering the room to keep the story going.
Throws eleven, a field point, men....
Later he does a good job describing a boxing match in much the same clipped manner.The end of the story came as a bit of a shock to me, it's very noir and hard-boiled as well.

I've read quite a bit about this book over the past few years, and it's pretty much all true - it's an insanely paced, amoral, booze-fueled epic (albeit one told in just over 200 pages).
But unlike a few other stories I've read in a similar vein, this one is strangely believable, most of it makes sense the whole way through (although sometimes the pace is so fast you just have to go with it), and although the characters aren't exactly fleshed out, they strike a chord.
There aren't many books that I read twice, even if I've really enjoyed them, but I think this will be one of them.Nudging four and a half stars.
Story was pretty standard (looking back) - lots going on, questionable females, shady world of politics/crime, "hero" with his own brand of standards, big cast. The narrative style was the most interesting thing. I thought I had read sparse writing before, but this threw me. Read almost like a beginning readers' book with dialogue. Odd obsession with details like the exact time and naming every damn street he's on. Dialogue read well to me - laden with slang and also humour (a nice surprise). Kind of book I had to read in one sitting to keep all the characters straight.
Perhaps the purest example of its genre, Paul Cain's FAST ONE (the only novel he ever wrote) is so hard-boiled it almost crunches. Fast-moving, brutal, and possessing an unforgettable ending. The Black Lizard edition has a nice little introduction about the author (a.k.a. Paul Ruric, a.k.a. George Carrol Sims) whose life was so strange and shadowy he'd be a great subject for another novel.
As a Jim Thompson fan, this novel was recommended by Amazon as a classic hard boiled story that influenced the greats, including Chandler, so I decided to give it a crack, knowing nothing going in.The plot is as impenetrable as most crime novels in this sub-genre (think “The Big Sleep”) and filled with enough double-crossers and dangerous women to make your hair curl and your brain fry.
At times, the novel pulls on the brakes and we’re left with repetitive scenes of tough guys talking in hotel rooms, drinking whisky and trying to pull fast ones on whoever comes next.Moreover, the sheer number of characters, coming and going or getting iced as quickly as they appear, can be overwhelming at times.
While the main character, Gerry Kells, was fun and fast talking, all the rest of the characters, especially the love interest, were incredibly under-developed.
It is described as one of the most hard-boiled pulp fiction novels of all time and I assume that is because of the very bleak ending, much darker than most pulp fiction.
Kells is just another hero who somehow manages to survive through sheer toughness and courage, a misogynist masculine ideal, with no real personality or character development.
There's quite a lot of hype about this one — along the lines of "the hardest-boiled crime novel you will ever read" — but that doesn't mean it's true, nor does it mean that the book is a classic.
But it reads like parody.
It's really hard to keep track of the various characters — not least because new ones keep popping up every few pages.
Every imaginable trope of hard-boiled fiction is included — but not lovingly.
Cain doesn't even stop to hit 'return' and make a visual space on the page to take his action from one location to another — that's how fast he's going or, perhaps, how little he cares.
This short novel's main selling point is that Raymond Chandler once referred to it as “some kind of high point in the hard-boiled genre.” What's not usually pointed out is that he wrote this comment years before the success of The Big Sleep made him famous.
Still, he, too, has some kind of point.Cain is certainly not in Chandler's league as a writer, and that's OK.
The writing is pared down to the absolute minimum and the action never lets up: one is only ever a few pages away from a shooting or someone getting hit on the head.
Cain takes the themes of gang warfare and political corruption from Dashiell Hammet’s Red Harvest and The Glass Key and dials them up to 11, similar to what Orson Welles did with the tropes of film noir in Touch of Evil; and, as with Welles’ film, there is at times a temptation to laugh rather than gasp as the plot moves from extreme to extreme, leaving behind any notion of something being too over-the-top.
From the first pages, the reader is assaulted with non-stop action and whiplash inducing plot twists that seem to occur on just about every one of its fast moving 171 pages.
I struggled with this book.
It's a fast paced read, but there wasn't much to distinguish many of the main characters, and there were so many changes in the plot (I wouldn't say twists and turns, just changes), that I couldn't keep a grip on it.
Reading it before I went to sleep might not have helped, as every time I picked it up it felt like I was starting from scratch.
The prose itself is too straightforward for my liking with few descriptive touches.
Whilst this might be seen as a precursor to Chandler, and interesting as an historical document, the actual craftsmanship is certainly lacking.
L'ultimo capitolo di questo libro è arte allo stato puro, gli amanti degli hard boiled dovrebbero leggere questa storia solamente per quelle ultime venti pagine.Il problema sono quelle precedenti: lente, lentissime. Una storia vittima della sua età, una scrittura che aspetta fino all'ultimo per decollare veramente, intrecci complicati a volte inutili e un'eccessiva staticità dei protagonisti.Ma quelle ultime venti pagine signori miei...
Aptly titled interesting read. I thought Charles Williams was efficient. Clean as a bone writing. Very quickly paced. There is a lot going on, which makes sense considering it was collected from several magazine issues and released as a novel. I love that the curse words were dashes. Begins running and doesn't stop until the hardcore end. Recommended hard-boiled story.
It crackles as it jumps from character to character and from scene to scene, with punchy one-sentence dialogue and no-nonsense vision into the underbelly of crime and politics in Los Angeles.
He is owed money by a neer-do-well named Rose, he connects with a murderous moll named Grainhurst, finds himself framed for murder, escapes a burning boat used for gambling, and gets caught up in a contest for political power.And this was on a good day .
. .Sadly, for this modern reader, this genre jumped the shark long ago.
For those still connected, it should be excellent.
3 1/2 stars - Lot's of action, there is gunplay around almost every corner. But I wish there was a little more background, who is Kells, who is Grandquist? Sparse on description of surroundings. Feels a little disjointed at first since the reader is just thrown into the action. But overall I did like it.
Despite everything this book has going for it, including its clean prose and interesting setting, ultimately the book is unreadable because 1. there are too many characters, and 2. there aren't really any characters at all.
Very disappointing. A hard slog. I don't think this guy can write. Nothing like James M.
This is the hardest of the hard-boiled crime novels.
If this novel were an egg, it would break every tooth in your mouth.
For example, on page 38: "Kells drove up Wilcox to Cahuenga, up Cahuenga to Iris, turned up the short curving slope to Cullen's house." Again, on page 39, on foot this time: "...walked over Franklin to Las Palmas.
He walked back and forth between Las Palmas and Highland...
and then walked down the west side of Las Palmas to Hollywood Boulevard...
He went down Las Palmas to Sunset, east to Vine and up Vine to the Brown Derby." There are tons of such examples.
