https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/43886.Debt_of_Bones
*** 3.35 *** "...“Enemies,' the wizard said, 'are the price of honor.”... This is my first time reading any of the Sword of Truth series and I am intrigued. I already liked the First Wizard Zedd Zorander, while I am a bit annoyed by Abby. However, the Mother Confessor is fascinating, so is the world of magic and war between good and evil that is raging between the D'Harans lead by Lord Rahl and the rest of the world. It also gives us some idea about the origins and way of operation of the Mord-S
This is my first time reading any of the Sword of Truth series and I am intrigued.
However, the Mother Confessor is fascinating, so is the world of magic and war between good and evil that is raging between the D'Harans lead by Lord Rahl and the rest of the world.
"...“«"The trickster", the Mother Confessor said.
I can't wait to delve into the series for real and discover everything it holds...
2.5 stars. Decent story set in the "Sword of Truth" universe and focusing on Wizard Zedd and the creation of the boundaries. Interesting background for fans of the series but I would not start here if you have not read the first couple books of the series.
The heroine showed herself to be a bit of a trait'rous bitch and led the Head Wizard into a trap but then thought better of it and helped him but then ballsed up her little job of keeping someone safe who was then killed but no wait, as if by magic the dead one wasn't really cos it was all a trick by the hero so he could slaughter oodles of people with his big lights and rushing waves of death.
I was never into fantasy novels.
But this whole entire series captured me.
I think it's mainly because of the awesome love story.
My ex introduced me to Terry Goodkind and he never mentioned the love story!
I thought it was like another Harry Potter series so I wasn't interested at first.
But I started reading the first book and I just couldn't put it down!
Richard and Kahlan have an amazing love.
And I wish I had something similar to what they have.
I definitely lost myself in these books.
That's how much of an impact Terry Goodkind's books had on me.
The series covers many aspects of the dark side of humanity, in great detail, as the heroes try to overcome the evils in the world.
Goodkind is not afraid to show his readers just what evil *really* is, that is, most often, people who perform acts of evil feel justified in their minds as to why they are doing so, if for illogical reasons, and will that those that oppose them are the evil ones.
Goodkind shows his readers that the only way to overcome evil in ourselves and in the world is through use of Reason.
Meh. It was a reread but I had forgotten most. It was kinda blah. I liked that book one leaves the boundaries a quasi-mystery. Didn't need an explanation!But not terrible because who doesn't love Zedd?
The story takes place years--at least several decades--before the first Sword of Truth book, when Zedd was still a young(ish) man, and his daughter is very young.
Also, none of the heroes are acting like dicks, which is also a thing he's taken to doing in the later books.)This actually would make a good YA fantasy novel, even if it is a little dark.
Or really any bar at all.Anyway, to sum it all up: I surprisingly enjoyed this, but I'm sure when I pick up book six in the main series later this year, he'll back in grand form with perviness, jerkiness, and stupidity on obvious display.
Was Ok read it on the train home and didn't really add much to the series but again the shock factor of what Goodkind will do is unique.But overall the story is pretty basic.
A short glimpse into Zedd's past - a nice add-on to the series although there isn't much new information added.
However, I liked to read more about Zedd and how people view him.
There is some foreshadowing involved which makes me want to continue the series even more.
'Debt of Bones' is actually a decent story for such a short book and it fits the general tone of the series.
However, it's maybe not the ideal place to start the series although the book is labeled #0.5.
I read it after finishing book 1 and 2 which was fine.
A nice addition to the Sword of Truth series that gives the reader a little window onto one of the more important events of the main series' back-story: the creation of the boundaries that divided Westland, D'Hara and the Midlands from each other.
Also major background events, like the war with D'Hara, while alluded to, are not well explored in the course of the story which does detract somewhat from the urgency of Zedd and the Mother Confessor in particular who seem to be driven primarily by their need to end the war quickly.
The entire first half of this book - until page 72, to be exact - focused on how helpless and desperate Abby is.
Her town is in trouble, and her family will be killed if she doesn't bring Zedd to personally rescue her town.
At page 72, they finally get to Coney Crossing.
Abby turns out to have been used to bait Zedd to Coney Crossing.
Abby searches through the enemy camp for her daughter in the guise of a Mord Sith, there's a (weak) battle, and Zedd throws up the boundary.
PLUS, both Zedd's daughter and Abby's family are perfectly fine.
A quick little reentry into the world of the Sword of Truth series, with a short story that provides background knowledge on the mechanics of the world.
I haven't read the original series in some time so this short novella was a little blase for me.
It was sitting on my shelf and had long been neglected so I used it for a little afternoon reading.
This is a quick read and a short book, but it's a lovely companion to flesh out a little bit more lore (which is the best part of consuming fantasy genre media...
all the lore!)
I tend to find it diffucult to rate short stories and novellas because it's hard to write something intriguing in the limited amount of space.
I usually feel like I rated a short story/novella too high or too low, but this one was a solid 4 star for me.
I wouldn't recommend this for someone who has not read most (if not all) of the Sword of Truth series, but it was fairly entertaining if you all ready have a solid foundation for the setting.
This book presented the reader with an interesting quick background for some important events for the series.
Zonder de boekenreeks te hebben gelezen, wel de serie te hebben gezien, vond ik het een leuk boekje! Jammer dat de vertaling niet erg goed is! Dat doet veel afbreuk :(
I was initially drawn to "Debt of Bones" by Terry Goodkind because I was thinking about re-reading the "Sword of Truth" series, and if there is a prequel, you should probably read it first.This is going under my "Fantasy Book" bingo square.Debt of Bones is a fantasy book about a world set a long time ago, a time of wizards and soldiers and sorceresses, with a main Midland, and a country a little off it called D'Hara.
Little do they know that the sworn enemies Zedd and Panis soon turn out to be the granfathers of Richard Rahl, the main character of the main book series.
I gave up on this series awhile ago because it's really not all that good.
Entertaining enough to get you out of a book slump...but still...not good.
Lately I've been addicted to Legend of the Seeker on Netflix, mostly because I think it's made by the same guy who did Xena.
It's soooooo similar to that series so it plays on my nostalgia.
Anyway, it made me wonder if I gave up on the books too soon.
And just like the rest of the series it was entertaining, but nothing to get excited about.It's a short story following a young Zedd and explaining how the barrier seperating the different lands went up.
I'm stunned!
I knew it was a story about Zedd,but I never expected that Terry Goodkind would offer us such insight in the defeat of Panis Rahl!
The creation of the boundary, the story of what happened to Zedd's wife and how his daughter was saved,were things I was dying to explore!
And I couldn't help but notice the similarities between young Zedd and Richard!
You were right Abby,that little girl you saved gave birth to a son who saved not only lives, but also souls!
So I owe you my eternal gratitude,for making possible the birth of my most beloved hero!
It is quite astounding that Debt of Bones has all the requisites of a full length fantasy novel - good, evil, war, magic, epic battles, love, loyalty, treason, deceit and treachery - but he has managed to squeeze it into the size of a novella barely over 100 pages.Goodkind, no doubt, achieved this brevity by omitting detailed explanations of some of the things that his fans would already understand - the devastating results of the touch of the Mother Confessor and the sadistic behaviour of the Mord Sith, for example.
It had fantasy, war and some thinking quotes.
The very well developed plot make this book a page turner and you can't wait to read more and more to see what will happen eventually.
Very shortly after I read this book I read Sabriel and the whole time I had a feeling that I had read another volume of Old kingdom somewhere.
Then again I read Debt of Bones and finally figured out where does this feeling com from.
but I don't really think that one of the author was inspired by the other ones work.
Okay. This has me intrigued. Although I do wish the world-building was more pronounced, but I guess that's for the actual first instalment.One part had my stomach churning in the worst way possible though. So that makes me.. wonder if this series will have more events like that one.. If so, it won't be for me..
Well, I forgot that I already read this prequel as a part of the  Legends anthology. Didn't like it that much and the reviews for the other Terry Goodkind's books weren't that promising, especially noting that he uses rape as a way of building a tragic background for female characters, so I won't even bother.
Such a cool novella. From reading this book and the first 4 novels in the series I'm convinced you could read this first if you want and then start the series as it takes place quite a bit before the first book. All in all a really cool short story that just adds to the rich story of the sword of truth series.
Decent. Was a good re-visit to Goodkind's world. Had all the usual expectations from his Sword of Truth series. Could easily be read after the 1st book, might be a bit harder as a stand-alone considering the lack of world-building (but its a novella, what do you expect? Not to mention its intended audience are those reading the Sword of Truth series, so the world-building is understandably kept minimal)
The Story It's war in Aydindril and the wizards, sorcerers, sorceresses, and confessors are worn, anxious, and busy as they attempt to thwart the latest of Panis Rahl's witchcraft and his armies.
That particular morning finds Abby waiting in line for a chance to meet a wizard and present her petition for aid before her entire village is wiped out.A young wife from a tiny town, Abby is overwhelmed and doesn't understand the conditions in which Zedd works but the Mother Confessor and a sorceress take pity on her and promise to gain her another audience.
*4.5This is my favorite fantasy universe, and I am so excited to finally revisit at after so many years of setting the series aside!
While I don't think that Goodkind is a master writer, he is one of the best story-tellers that I have encountered.
I love the worlds, creatures, and cultures that he creates, and this little prequel has given me the motivation to give tackling the massive Sword of Truth series another try!
Even though I do think that this little book is a bit too short, I am impressed with how much development and discussion Goodkind manages to work into it, especially since he's used to writing much larger works XD
I did like the characters in the book.
She did carry the story forward, though, which usually doesn't happen when the main character is so annoying.I was all set to read Wizard's First Rule (Sword of Truth, #1) but after Debt of Bones, I brought it back to the library and got some cozy mysteries instead.I will say that I've since read other reviews of Debt of Bones (far be it from me to stomp on a beloved author) and a big chunk of diehard fans of the Sword of Truth series and of Terry Goodkind didn't even like it.
Review Originally Posted At: FictionForesightReview:Terry Goodkind's Sword of Truth Series was one of the first “long-series” that I ever read.
So when looking for my next book to review, I decided to go back and re-read Debt of Bones.
Since this was a short book, this review will also be brief.The Good:It added some good flavor to the back story in regards to how “The New World” came to be divided.
Although this was not quite as apparent here as it was in his other books, the first half was still afflicted.Overall:For fans of the series looking for more depth and back story, it was an enjoyable read.
I read this after I read the first few books of the series & liked it better on paper where I could skim.
Overall, it was an interesting story, though.It's been a long time, but I thought (view spoiler)[his daughter was raped by Rahl which is how Richard came to be.
Otherwise, he had a good voice that was well suited to the material.I think I'll try listening to Wizard's First Rule, the first book of the series, but I don't know if I'll be able listen to it.
I have fairly good memories of it back when it was first written & I kept getting the books as they came out in PB.
The story is interesting in this book though I would definitely wait to read it until you've read significantly in the series to be familiar with the things that are alluded to.
If you read it at the beginning, I think the later books would have lost the few redeeming things that they have going for them, namely the surprises.
Particularly the first book of the series.
The story was interesting enough to hold my attention long enough for me to read it all at once but as it's quite short, that's not all that astounding.
While some may complain about the length of this book, saying it is too short, I both agree and disagree.
It was nice to get some of Goodkind's brand of fantasy without having to read nearly a thousand pages, and since it was so short, you got much less of the padding and speeches contained in his other works.
But it was too short in that I would love to see more of this caliber of writing and the quick pacing this book contained from Mr. Goodkind more often.
