https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18798.The_Guermantes_Way
"this is how salieri must have felt that such a wanker as mozart was given such talent.(and yes, i get all my history from peter schaffer)i do love proust, but it is not the way i love anyone i want to spend a lot of time with, and not the kind of love you feel for distant relations, where you kind of have to love them.i don't feel an obligatory book-lover's love for him; he moves me so often that i know my love is genuine, but he also kind of sickens me.because he writes these gross scenes:"My food was brought to me in a little panelled room upstairs.
685. Remembrance of Things Past – Marcel ProustÀ la recherche du temps perdu III: Le côté de Guermantes (À la recherche du temps perdu #3), Marcel Proustتاریخ نخستین خوانش: یکی از روزهای نوامبر سال 1994 میلادیعنوان: در جستجوی زمان از دست رفته، کتاب سوم: طرف گرمانت؛ نویسنده: مارسل پروست؛ مترجم: مهدی سحابی؛ تهران، نشر مرکز، 1372، شابک: 9643050092؛ چاپ پنجم 1385؛ چاپ ششم 1389؛ موضوع: داستان نویسندگان فرانسه - سده 20 مکتاب نخست: طرف خانه سوان؛ کتاب دوم: در سایه دوشیزگان شکوفا؛ کتاب سوم: طرف گرمانت 1
اما چیزی که بیش از هر چیز از این رمان درمییابیم این که، کتاب از یک دغدغه، سرشار است، دغدغه ای به نام هراس از مرگ، و ترس از مُردن، و نگفتن آن همه واژه ای که روانتان را، میخورند.
این که مغزتان پر از واژه هایی باشد، که خودشان را به این در و آن دیوار میکوبند، تا خارج شوند، ولی نمیتوانند، زندگی را ناچیز میشمارند، و خود را وقف تخیلی باورنکردنی میکنند، که هیچ چیز را یارای برابری با آن نیست.
His analysis reminds me of the following well-known lines from T.S. Eliot's Murder in the Cathedral:Man's life is a cheat and disappointment;All things are unreal,Unreal and disappointing:The Catherine wheel, the pantomime cat,The prizes given at the children's party,The prize awarded for the English Essay,The scholar's degree, the statesman's decoration,All things become less real, man passesFrom unreality to unreality.I like this passage for the same reason I like Le Côté de Guermantes; it expresses despair in a wonderfully elegant way.__________________________________________After posting my review of The Information a couple of days ago, I started to wonder what other books there were which directly address the Goodreads experience.
It is a word that, like all proper nouns, has a meaning that exceeds its denotations.
And such a proper noun is powerful precisely to the degree of its self-referentiality.
But the line of demarcation that separated me from the Faubourg St. Germain seemed to me all the more real because it was purely ideal."It is not possible to escape the power of these proper nouns.
The power does not exist in the concrete embodiment of Le Duc, or his castle, or even of his wealth.
It is a world of the symbolic reality of proper names.
The symbols of proper nouns point not beyond themselves but only to themselves.
«... τρεις γυναίκες που είχα αγαπήσει -, σκέφτηκα πως η κοινωνική μας ζωή είναι, όπως το εργαστήρι του καλλιτέχνη, γεμάτη προσχέδια πεταμένα στα οποία νομίσαμε πως θα μπορούσαμε να δώσουμε οριστική μορφή στην ανάγκη μας για έναν μεγάλο έρωτα, αλλά δεν λογάριασα πως μερικές φορές, αν το προσχέδιο δεν είναι πολύ παλιό, μπορεί να τύχει να το ξαναπιάσουμε και να το μετατρέψουμε σ’ ένα έργο ολότελα διαφορετικό, ίσως μάλιστα και πιο σημαντικό από εκείνο που είχαμε προβλέψει αρχικά».Εξίσου εντυπωσιακός ο Προυστ, όπως και στα δύο πρώτα βιβλία. Αγαπημένος.
و همان طور كه در جلد دوم راوى با مواجهه با واقعيت بى مايگى خيالات عاشقانه را دریافت، در جلد سوم پس از تلاش هاى فراوان براى راه يافتن به محافل اشرافى - كه به خاطر بسته بودنشان و نام هاى پر طنطنه شان آدم را به اين فريب دچار مى كنند كه چيزى از عظمت و شكوه در آن هاست - وقتى به بالاترين محافل اشرافى راه مى يابد پوچى و ابتذال آن ها را درك مى كند و همچون قبل از بى شباهت بودن خيال و واقعيت سرخورده مى شود.آن چه می گفتند همه هیچ و پوچ بود.
And even in my most carnal desires, oriented always in a particular direction, concentrated round a single dream, I might have recognized as their primary motive an idea, an idea for which I would have laid down my life, at the innermost core of which, as in my day-dreams while I sat reading all afternoon in the garden at Combray, lay the notion of perfection.-Marcel ProustI go forward slowly, dead, and my vision is no longer mine, it’s nothing: it’s only the vision of the human animal who, wit
And even in my most carnal desires, oriented always in a particular direction, concentrated round a single dream, I might have recognized as their primary motive an idea, an idea for which I would have laid down my life, at the innermost core of which, as in my day-dreams while I sat reading all afternoon in the garden at Combray, lay the notion of perfection.-Marcel ProustI go forward slowly, dead, and my vision is no longer mine, it’s nothing: it’s only the vision of the human animal who, without wanting, inherited Greek culture, Roman order, Christian morality, and all the other illusions that constitute the civilization in which I feel.Where can the living be?-Fernando Pessoa 
the literary equivalent of that (genius but dull as rocks) 10 minute tracking shot in le week-end.
If these vast stretches of recounting one gathering after another weren't full of the Narrator's observations about who's lying to whom, marital fissures slowly widening right before the public's eye, the double-talk that flatters one while slandering another (or are simply backhanded compliments cruelly served to one unlucky individual) and other betrayals of the his unwillingness to swallow the facade presented at these salons, I would have been bored to tears, page after page of gorgeous language or not, because I just don't care about such petty triflings in real life.
We really get to know Saint Loup in this volume, as well as the Guermantes family in general - who are some pretty superficial crazies anyway.
The Dreyfus affair really wears Swann out, which is sad, but as a reader you're really distracted by the total creepiness of Marcel so you get over it pretty quickly.This chapter also emerges us in, what every book ought to have, TONS OF SOCIETY BITCHES.
a book of Bergotte's (which happens pretty much right after he's all like "Bergotte sucks"), and then Charlus calls M.
Each in turn told me they were sorry and it didn't sound interesting, I should note that not one of the people knew who Proust was, a fact that left me a little baffled (I mean what's the point of reading the highest of high brow literature if you can't 'wow' people with your reading material, is there really another reason to be reading this stuff?
When I think really what this book is about the answer is almost worse then saying it's about France to people who never heard of the author.
Instead it's about a couple of parties, and a little bit of stuff that happens before them.
Yes there are moments that seemed to go on....and on...a bit, but overall I feel that the narrator became more real, more human, as did many of the people around him, including those who he has been studying from afar.
In The Guermantes Way, our unnamed narrator has matured somewhat, though his exact age remains unspecified.
He is now attending the salons of those who he has admired from a distance, especially Mme de Guermantes, the woman he virtually "stalked" in the streets, setting up regular "impromptu" meetings during her daily travels around Paris.
To read more of Mme de Guermantes, you really must read this book.
--The Guermantes Way (In Search of Lost Time Volume III)NotesAddendaSynopsis
Fortunately for him, his latest residence comes ready made with someone who fits that description exactly: Mme de Guermantes.Part I: I Am Obsessed with Mme De GuermantesOf all things I never thought would matter for a volume of Proust, I feel compelled to start with a brief plot overview of the beginning of this book:So, this is the one where Marcel’s a stalker.
The focus of his desire, at least in a nebulous way, in the second volume, her appearance here comes far too late, after Mme de Guermantes, after his encounter with the Baron de Charlus, and especially after the death of his grandmother.

پروست در این کتاب با هنرمندی تمام فضای سنگین و رخوت آلود اشرافی فرانسه را به تصویر می کشد و ملالی که سالها خود در زندگی شخصیش تجربه کرده است را به مخاطب منتقل می کند.
پروست تا پیش از انزوای خودخواسته در سالهای آخر عمرش، همانند راوی اوقاتش را در محافل و مهمانی های اشرافی میگذرانده است و کاملا با فضا و افراد این طبقه آشناست و به همین دلیل شخصیتهای در جستجو...
“It is not possible to describe human life without bathing it in the sleep into which it plunges and which, night after night, encircles it like the sea around a promontory.”  - Marcel Proust, The Guermantes WayHaving recently read Anais Nin’s thoughts in The Novel of the Future, a book in which she lauded Proust and similar authors for being sensitive to the subconscious and incorporating elements of philosophy and psychology in their writing, I was very eager to start reading this volume.
So when I again became frustrated, much later, by a long digression about Duchesse de Guermantes' way of speaking, I wished to tell our narrator: "Just say she is a contrarian and be done with it!" I felt vindicated when I finally come across that exact word (at least in translation) to describe her.
I was also impelled to look up the other references to a staircase in this volume and I now feel they'll have more meaning in retrospect than I first afforded them, a meaning I am sure will only come to me after the completion of four more volumes.My reading a novel by Zola -- also dealing in part with upper-class prejudices -- at the same time added to my enjoyment, as he is mentioned quite a bit in the salons of this volume due to his real-life involvement in the Dreyfus affair.
He examines the cult of aristocracy, meditates on the role of the military in French society, examines French antisemitism through the Dreyfus affair, French art, and the banal conversations and selfish superficiality that permeate throughout the drawing rooms of the upperclass denizens of the Faubourg St. Germain.
This third volume of Proust's epic A la Recherche du Temps Perdu, carries the reader deeper into Proust's analysis of memory, society, language, and art.
Unlike the others, the narrator's presence at these sparkling gatherings were more out of a sense of historical curiosity & aesthetic pleasure than for sating his physical appetites–to go deeper & beyond the mystery of those ancient names, because "The human mind, hovering perpetually between the two planes of experience and imagination, seeks to fathom the ideal life of the people it knows and to know the people whose life it has had to imagine”– Marcel remains a neutral, detached observer, faithfully recording his impressions of people & things, showing the fascinating aspects of the Guermantes set, warts & all–For example: Mme. de Guermantes’s mind attracted me just because of what it excluded was exactly the content of my own thoughts.And this one of Princess de Parme :She treated each of them with that charming courtesy with which well-bred people treat their inferiors and was continually, to make herself useful, pushing back her chair so as to leave more room, holding my gloves, offering me all those services which would demean the proud spirit of a commoner but are very willingly rendered by sovereign ladies.
20 June 2016: Something I should have posted as a progress update while reading, instead of here - (view spoiler)[With each volume I read of In Search of Lost Time, I'm seeing more and more beauty in his prose. This is for all of my fellow Proust fans out there: (hide spoiler)]Would like to write some sort of review for this soon!Volume 1: Swann's WayVolume 2: Within a Budding GroveVolume 3: The Guermantes Way8 July, 2016["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
Marcel makes this visit after what must have been for himself a landmark day; after his first sexual encounter with Albertine, he receives an invitation to dine with not only the beautiful Mme. de Stermaria, but also receives his first invitation into the salon of the Guermantes, something he dreamed of and imagined in so many variable forms since the early pages of Swann's Way. It is to this dinner party at the Guermantes that the largest section of the last half of this volume is devoted.
(Claude Monet, Boulevard des Capucines) "Nunca vemos os entes queridos a não ser no sistema animado, no movimento perpétuo da nossa incessante ternura, a qual, antes de deixar que cheguem até nós as imagens que o seu rosto nos apresenta, as agarra no seu turbilhão, as remete para a ideia que deles fazíamos desde sempre, as faz aderir a ela e coincidir com ela.""...devemos lembrar-nos de que a opinião que temos uns dos outros, as relações de amizade, de família, nada têm de fixo, a não ser na apa
Daí que se fale tanto de divórcio entre esposos que pareciam tão perfeitamente unidos e que, pouco depois, falam com ternura um do outro; de tantas infâmias ditas por um amigo acerca de um amigo de quem o julgamos inseparável e com quem o iremos encontrar reconciliado antes de termos tempo de nos refazer da surpresa; de tantas alianças entre os povos desfeitas em tão pouco tempo."
No final, espero conseguir encontrar palavras que transmitam um pouco do tanto que Marcel Proust me faz Feliz.
The solitary reader is satisfied with Proust's depiction of the society of the Faubourg Saint-Germain, of the Guermantes way, the superior way that drives people into raptures over cuisine and carnations, " an intoxication so artificial that it turns swiftly into boredom, into melancholy." ( MKE 751) Expecting a drawing room of Dresden figures, the narrator sees the Guermantes come to life only to disappoint his imagination, they become no longer worthy of their name.
This third entry of Proust's epic cycle of quiet remembrance sees him entering fully into adult life, and we are privileged once more with the opportunity to browse the strange aquarium of the existence he attempts to inhabit, insofar as his uniquely critical eye will allow him, becoming once more immersed in the wonderful details of his observations.
Proust has an extremely high degree of hypersensitivity to human relations, which is both a strength of the novel, and perhaps a curse for him personally.
What happens on the outside is less important than the inner feelings of our narrator, and that's it's biggest strength.
http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b0076qkbRevisiting, via BBC R4x, all the books in remembrance, our world has altered too. Description: Marcel discovers the staggering gulf between the fantasy and the reality of childhood enchantments. Stars James Wilby.
Well, I gotta admit I read Proust exclusively for his signature page long soliloquies on subjective experience, and I often sit through a hundred pages of dull social interactions awaiting to be rejuvenated by the precision of his prose. Both "Swann's way" and "In the shadow of young girls in flower" catered to my taste very well, but "The Guermantes Way" kept me waiting and waiting and those rare few pages were hardly worth it.
وقتی داشتم جلد اول در جست و جوی زمان از دست رفته رو می خوندم، یکی از دوستام بهم گفت دوستش دو سال با این داستان در گیر بوده، من که خیلی داشتم تند تند در دنیای سوان و اودت پیش می رفتم گفتم اووو دو سال؟ نه بابا خیلی جذاب تر از اونه که دو سال آدم بخواد خوندنش رو طول بده.
واسه همین حدود 3-4 ماه گذاشتمش کامل کنار و دوباره از هفته ی پیش رفتم سراغش و تمومش کردم و آخراش دوباره جادوش منو گرفت و خوشحالم که دوباره برگشتم به دنیای جادویی پروست.

Toujours le même petit univers étriqué, misérable et falot de ces gens embarrassés d'eux-même, que la vanité ne peut laisser en repos, et qui n'ont rien d'autre à faire qu'à s'observer, qu'à se dénigrer, qu'à ressasser leurs petits intérêts, au point de ne plus savoir par quoi se distinguer du tout-venant autrement qu'en étalant une fatuité aussi vaine qu'odieuse.
On verra énormément de clins d’œil à l'actualité de l'époque, ce qui rend cet univers aussi crédible que vivant.
Le style s'améliore, devient plus sec, plus nerveux, et contient cette fureur désordonnée de faire des métaphores qui s’ébattait trop librement dans les premiers volumes.
«گفتهاند که سکوت نیرویی است؛ درست از جنبهی دیگری، سکوت نیروی سهمگینی است در اختیار معشوق. سکوت بر دلشورهی منتظران دامن میزند. هیچ چیز به اندازهی آنچه جدایی میاندازد آدم را به نزدیک شدن به دیگری دعوت نمیکند، و چه سدی گذرناپذیرتر از سکوت؟ نیز گفتهاند که سکوت شکنجهای است، و میتواند زندانیان محکوم به سکوت را به دیوانگی بکشاند. اما چه شکنجهای بزرگتر از نه سکوت کردن، که سکوت دلدار را دیدن! روبر با خود میگفت: «چکار میکند که هیچ خبری ازش نیست؟ حتما دارد با کسان دیگری به من خیانت میکند.» و همچنین: «مگر چ
هیچ چیز به اندازه‌ی آن‌چه جدایی می‌اندازد آدم را به نزدیک شدن به دیگری دعوت نمی‌کند، و چه سدی گذرناپذیرتر از سکوت؟ نیز گفته‌اند که سکوت شکنجه‌ای است، و می‌تواند زندانیان محکوم به سکوت را به دیوانگی بکشاند.
روبر با خود می‌گفت: «چکار می‌کند که هیچ خبری ازش نیست؟ حتما دارد با کسان دیگری به من خیانت می‌کند.» و همچنین: «مگر چه کرده‌ام که این‌طور مرا بی‌خبر گذاشته؟ شاید از من متنفر است، برای همیشه.» و خود را گنهکار می‌دانست.
بشریت هرگز نخواهد فهمید که چقدر به آن‌ها مدیون است و بخصوص آن‌ها برای ارائه این همه چیز به بشریت چقدر رنج کشیده‌اند.
