https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/102958.Preacher_Volume_9
Disappointing.- The whole Genesis thing wasn't developed well and ended up being disappointing.- The resolution with God was disappointing.- The resolution with Herr Starr was disappointing.
Herr Starr had some funny moments, but there was nothing epic about the ending.
I didn't hate it, but it could have been so much better.(view spoiler)[I really disliked how Cassidy went from being a good guy to one who beats up women and the bad guy.
I also disliked how Featherstone and Hoover were killed off and then Tulip comes in and shoots Starr without any kind of real battle or anything.
:)All through this comic, I knew it was always about these three, or five if you include the redoubtable Starr and the merciful Saint, but how it all came back to the first three, the story's core, is just so goddamned beautiful.Cassidy, Jesse, and Tulip.
:)And I laughed my ass off when Tulip started making cracks about Jesse's initials.
And somehow, I was also extremely satisfied by the Saint's little wrap-up, too.
I think I'd want a little rest after all that hate, too.
This comic is going to go on my list as one of the greatest greats.
Where else would Jesse Custer’s quest end but at the Alamo?As for the how it happens, I think the book says it best:“Isn’t it funny when you think your story’s going one way, and it turns out it was going another way all along?”
I mean, that has got to be the Jesse's main mission in the whole series, a sort of genesis versus god fight ala-Mortal Kombat right?As for the main series, Genesis really, really felt to be hugely underused and underdeveloped.
Its fate was inevitable, but yet too convenient.Arseface's charm was felt until the conclusion of his story, but he could have been part of a larger scheme.
This kinda reminds me of Kratos.As for Jesse, Cass and Tulip, our three main characters, I will let you read what ultimately happened to them.For me, Preacher may not top the feeling I got from Scalped for a big chunk of the series but Ennis certainly nailed a better ending than Jason Aaron.
I read the first for curiosity and then, I am going forward, devouring one book after another, following the adventures of Tulip, Jesse, Cassidy and all other major and minor characters who appear in these books.Ennis is in no hurry to conclude, carries the various stories, unfolds them with precision and concludes some (such as Arseface and Lorie).
The result is a stunning final, with a double confrontation between Jesse and Cassidy, but also between the Grail and Jesse, which closes the series giving the reader all the answers, leaving no unfinished stories.
It is this strangely assorted group, Jesse, Tulip, Cassidy, their stories, their relationships, their destinies.
God damn, for some reason I've been wanting to read this book for YEARS, but never got around to it until now.
Eventually I got to near the end of both those series and didn't buy their final volumes until I'd started to forget their detailed story lines and thought I'd better re-read them before hitting the home run.
To me, it stands up there with the end of Scalped (the only of these kind of series I've properly finished - whereas I've got a mission to complete with Y: The Last Man, Transmetropolitan, Ex Machina).Was it better than The Boys?
The Preacher series are the most brilliant comics ever written.
All I can really say is if you haven't read the rest of this series than you should not be starting with this one.
Then read through the rest of it and come back for Alamo.
For those of you who have read the whole series so far, it's even more pointless to review it.
This series rested on a premise: God exists, but He quit his post, and the Reverend Jesse Custer wanted to bring him to accounts.
After reading the previous eight volumes, I was committed to this series in a big way. So for Alamo to have an ending worthy of the series' overall quality was, in a word, a relief. There is little I can say without spoiling the ending, except that every major character has their moment in the sun, and a satisfying resolution to their story.
You'd think a storyline about holding God "accountable for his crimes" that has stretched out over five years would come to a slightly more epic conclusion. Yes, I understand that killing God could be considered a somewhat epic undertaking, but it was delivered with all the style and panache of a wet newspaper. Just a tad anticlimactic.
Following Jesse Custer through nine volumes of Preacher has been an exercise in hilarity and despair.
Jesse’s determination, Tulip’s loyalty, Cassidy’s devil-may-care attitude, Starr‘s fanaticism, the Saint‘s focused hatred--it’s the personalities involved that make Preacher the entertaining read it is.
The notion that this country is great, that a person can achieve anything he wants should he only put his mind to it, is repeated throughout the series--not only by Jesse, but also by Cassidy.
Personal revenge is a biggie since it motivates every single character at some point, driving them toward irrational actions that don’t often turn out for the best.
However, for someone who is so bent on holding God accountable for bad things, for justice, and for doing right, he kills a lot of people.
As I mentioned in my review of the first collection, I was very nervous about how Ennis would actually handle portraying God. He set himself up for a big task.
Jesse's quest is to find and confront God, so Ennis needed to find someway to portray an omnipotent, omniscient being or find some clever way of not making the confrontation happen.
The primary driver of the story, Jesse looking for God, never satisfactorily happened.
It's the last volume in this great otherworldly, in every sense of the word, story.I have a couple of moments in this volume that stand out for me: Agent Hoover finally gets himself to curse, Jesse and Cassidy get into one last barfight, Jesse remembering his father's wise advice when he says goodbye to the Duke.The second half of the story is just...
How to tie up all the loose ends, answer all the questions and deliver a beautiful ending to a beautifully written story.The last stand in front of the Alamo between Jesse and Cassidy is heartwrenching and how it ends up between Jesse and Tulip...
And while I'm sure there would have been some money in bringing the series back, Garth Ennis has stuck to his guns and left things as they were meant to be.We get to see the final outcomes for all of the cast: Jesse, Tulip, Cassady, Arseface, Herr Starr, the Saint of Killers, even God.
(view spoiler)[ That was the one part of the story I didn't agree with, the Saint of Killers killing God. Just didn't seem to make sense, but whatever, that's the story Ennis told.
(hide spoiler)]While I say I hate to see the series end, truthfully it was the perfect length.
He is able to convey far more emotion than virtually any superhero-style comic artist, and his character actually look like humans.
He doesn't really do anything interesting with form--he's not an experimental comic artist--but he does what he does very well.-The relationships between the characters, and especially how they change over time.-The anti-religious narrative is pretty risque for a comic.The Cons:-Preacher is about as chauvinistic as it gets.
The comic ends up reinforcing heteronormativity, while devaluing and ridiculing all other practices.
That ending was just perfect. Honestly.
Before I thought it was weird that I had no recollection of how this series ended but now I don't think it's weird at all because I obviously just blocked the whole thing out since it's so entirely anti-climactic.
I guess this is probably a good series if you're into all the American dream cowboy bullshit Jesse is always spewing but I personally signed up because I thought we were gonna FIGHT GOD, and while I guess that technically DOES happen it's like such a side note / afterthought that I'm just sitting here like ???
I was going to review the whole series in this final volume of Preacher, but in the end this is a story that can resonate with different people in different ways. The praise for the writing is just deserved, but I would like to pay tribute to the artwork of Steve Dillon. His death last October, leaves a big hole in the comics world, and this series wouldn't have been nearly as memorable without the sublime simplicity of his art. RIP Steve.
Sometimes I think that it is possible that even Ennis missed the point of his own book, as I did when he declared that his new series “The Boys” would “out Preacher Preacher”.
After reading what had been produced of “The Boys” I realized that it was more likely that the industry sites and magazines that had missed Ennis’s point when he said that because all they talked about was the violence and profanity in the series.
If a man or woman were in a relationship with someone like that we would tell them that that person was not worth their love, and that is what Ennis is stating regarding God.
Jesse and Cassidy face off in front of the Alamo while Starr runs his endgame.I still have a few complaints.
Tulip's interpretation of "I don't want you to fight the lethal shadow organization" as "you're a silly girl who can't take care of herself" is a blatant strawman and Jesse should be calling her on it.
Preacher deserves every bit of its acclaim.Plot points:(view spoiler)[Jesse uses the Saint's bones to force a meeting.Arseface, Lorie, and Salvation all get happy endings.Starr murders the Elite Council, turning the Grail into an even greater mockery of itself.Hoover gives Starr raccoon eyes.Jesse drugs Tulip.
I suppose if the series didn't have much shock value, the story wouldn't have lasted this long.
The villains are downright pathetic, even God, and the main character tried to be so "manly" that it straight up reminded me of Maddox at times.It doesn't have a great overall story, but it's one of those books where you enjoy the journey more than the destination I suppose.
From stories of "sexual investigators" to rockstars named Arseface (and his face does look like an Arse), you start to slowly enjoy the dark humor of The Preacher, until you realize that it was probably not meant to be a 100% serious story in the first place.Also, does the series remind anyone of Supernatural?
And, while the general outline of the story is an interesting idea - God leaves heaven, Jesse Custer (J.C.) is inhabited by a superpower baby (who is the incarnation of good and evil) and is hunting God to make him answer for what he has done - the execution is uneven and the finale is underwhelming.
Also the love story ("until the end of the world") and humor seem juvenile (Arseface.
It might be kind of funny at first, but after 9 volumes of it ...) And Tulip is a male fantasy.
On the plus side, I enjoyed the back stories of Tulip, Cassidy, Jesse and Arseface.
Excelente. Superó con creces los dos volúmenes anteriores. Debo reconocer que esperaba un enfrentamiento entre Jesse y Dios, pero me satisface la manera en que se desarrolló todo. La premisa del cómic me gustó mucho desde el principio, pero sí creo que Ennis se desvía en algunos momentos y terminas por olvidar el propósito inicial del protagonista. A nivel gráfico, me encantó. El manejo del espacio y del color me engancharon desde el comienzo y en todos los volúmenes.Una historia poco convencional, pero muy interesante. 100% recomendado si lo que te gusta es lo políticamente incorrecto.
Los finales de los personajes secundarios son cojonudos, pero el de los tres principales y el de la trama principal... Psé. Pese a sus altibajos durante los 9 volúmenes, es una gran historia desde el principio. Muy muy recomendable.
Bye, God.
EPIIIIIIIIIICCC!!! FREAKING epic!!!! I am not even sad it's ended . I am beyond fulfilled ( to a point I guess) . oh Garth Ennis your big beautiful brain .
Is the conclusion everything I wanted it to be? No. Is it still fucking incredible? yes.
Ties up all loose ends but man, the fun was missing in this one.
This series is done, and for the right reader it's incredible!
Who is the right reader?
Related to this, you need to be the type of reader who can laugh at irreverent humor.
The right reader needs to like the graphic novel format.
There are so many good books out there that you shouldn't waste your time on ones that aren't for you.
I haven't spoiled anything for anyone who hasn't even read book 1.
Preacher, Vol. 9: Alamo is a disappointing, anti-climatic end to the series.
It got me excited at times, but never quite got me there.While I enjoyed the extremes to which this series dared to go, I don't think I would ever read this again.
Stupid girl.In the past couple of volumes, Arseface felt unnecessary to the plot but I actually enjoyed his storyline in this book.
I didn't care for how everything was conveniently wrapped up.Jesse, Gran'ma, the Saint of Killers, and Herr Starr were the memorable parts of the series.
Even in the final moments, he had me laughing.Favorite Herr Starr moments:(view spoiler)[
After several collections in which the plot slowed down considerably, in the name of character development, the series concludes in grand fashion.The first few issues involve the major players' final manuevers before the final confrontation.
Jesse then settles things with Cassidy, the weak-willed former friend whom he now finds irredeemably despicable.
Gradually closing in is Starr, now so obsessed with exacting revenge on Jesse that he has reduced the once-powerful Grail into a fragile-but-still-dangerous shell of its former self.
Preacher was never just about a supernaturally-powered Texan badass on a righteous mission of ultimate justice.
