https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18498558-bird-box
starting in russia, moving to alaska, and eventually making its way to "a nice suburb of Detroit" where our story picks up, people begin to see…something.
no one knows what this "something" is, because once it has been seen, it drives people to madness and suicide, frequently with some homicides along the way.
there is no way of knowing what this "something" wants, where it came from, what form it takes, or what the future of humanity will be.malorie is living in a house with two children, both only four years old.
”Creatures…infinity…our minds have ceilings, Malorie...these things...they are beyond it…higher than it…out of reach…out of--BUT HERE”  Whatever you do DON’T OPEN YOUR EYES!!Malorie has just confirmed she is pregnant the very day that people begin killing themselves. News travels so fast now. Something can happen in Cairo. Someone can film it, load it to the internet, and within minutes of the event occurring someone in Des Moines is watching what happened. News, mostly tragic news, from around
The world, consequently, feels like a much more dangerous place than it did 50 years ago.
”What kind of a man cowers when the end of the world comes?
I always assumed the end would come because of our own stupidity.”For a few blissful months Malorie can feel reasonably safe nestled in the routine of this small group of survivors.
Which begs the question, if the bindings that keep our minds anchored in sanity have long been shorn away can the creatures do anymore damage?There are two time lines at play in this book.
(rating bumped from 4 up to 5 stars after thinking about it more)A few days ago when I finished this book, initially I was pissed off and disappointed at the ending.
It leaves a lot of questions unanswered, but upon a few days' reflection I've realized that it was the only realistic way this could end.
Malerman made the right choice in leaving some things unknown, because ultimately it works best for this type of story.NOW, THE BOOK.
Nobody knows if it's a race of strange creatures, or any other number of things, but they know that it's out there and it's killing people.
There’s a great period of horror fiction history, before the novel-boom of the 70’s spearheaded by Rosemary’s Baby, The Other, and The Exorcist, in which the short story ruled the genre.
A wondering at more existential questions She thinks of the house as one big box.
The world is confined to the same cardboard box that houses the birds outside.
Malorie understands that Tom is looking for a way to open the lid.
I think some horror authors are trying to scare you, but with me, I’m as scared as the reader is of the story.
Don't freaking go outside without your blindfold or you might open your eyes.
One day they start getting reports of people seeing things and then turning violent and killing people and themselves.
Malorie was with her sister when these events started happening and she also found out she was pregnant.
Malorie ends up with some people in a house and they only go outside when they need to look for more food.
I liked some of the people Malorie was living with and they were doing okay, until .
Malorie lives in a house for 4 years.
Hold on tight...this trip is going to blow your mind!Horror is a genre that I normally avoid completely, but with the rave reviews from my GR friends for this book I felt I needed to step out and give it a try.
What do you fear most, the known danger of man or the unknown?Heart pounding, reading furiously.This book actually scared the crap out of me!
My husband sitting next to me quietly reading (a tame David Baldacci novel) suddenly sneezed!
I don't know if I have ever felt so spent at the end of a book.
Sister Read Review by Norma & Brenda Holy Sh*tty Balls this was one heck of a creepy book!
BIRD BOX by JOSH MALERMAN is a wonderfully creepy, scary, eerie, and downright terrifying tale that grabbed our attention right from the very start to the heart-pounding finish.
BIRD BOX made us both feel fearful of the unknown and we could definitely feel the eerie presence of the mysterious creatures in all of the surroundings while we were totally engrossed in this novel.
To sum it all up it was an extremely entertaining, unsettling, interesting, and fast-paced read that left us both a little fearful of leaving the house without a blindfold.
Something is following them all the while, but is it man, animal, or monster?The book interweaves past and present and whilst both aspects are critical and important I have to admit to loving the "past" moments.
The dynamics between the survivors focused on in the book is brilliant and complex.
But the main driver behind reading page after page?Desperation to know what "it" was.A truly stunning book in so many ways.
I can't recommend enough and I give it 5 big Booklover Catlady paw prints.Don't uncover your eyes, no matter what you do, even better, get rid if your own eyes to be safe...For more of my reviews see me at:https://www.facebook.com/BookloverCat...Follow me on Twitter!
Wow! Just wow! Bird Box was amazing! This definitely lived up to the hype that everyone spoke of. I highly recommend this book if you want your mind to be twisted and turned in ways you can't imagine. Creepy, terrifying, horrid, and downright scary! Loved it! Would make an interesting movie......
2.5 stars.I would not last in the apocalyptic world set out in this book. My dad used to say I had nose problems because let's face it. I have to know what's going on. Walking around for 4 years with a blindfold on every time I went outside? Yeah, dead in less than 60 seconds.Not this kind of blindfolded either. This book doesn't give the reader many answers. I do know what the author was going for. The whole scary in the mind of the reader thing. The thing is I need some answers. I get all ants
I have to know what's going on.
Walking around for 4 years with a blindfold on every time I went outside?
Yeah, dead in less than 60 seconds.Not this kind of blindfolded either.
This book doesn't give the reader many answers.
I do know what the author was going for.
The thing is I need some answers.
I get all antsy and shit if I don't have them.I don't like thinking of things that I don't know what is sneaking up on me.
I think this author likes the apostrophe more than I do..and I ain't an author.
Who knows.
The second reference I'm going to throw at you is a Twilight Zone episode from the '80s called "Need to Know" where everyone starts going insane in this small town and it's eventually discovered that the source of the problem is not a physical disease, but an idea, a single short phrase, that is being passed from person to person by word of mouth.
That horrible phrase is nothing more or less than the purpose and meaning of existence; the moral of the story being -- Knowledge we are not ready to receive will drive us mad.I freaking love that Radiohead video and I was twelve years old when I saw that Twilight Zone episode and it scared the crap out of me (which is Trudi speak for I loved it).
''There are things out there that will hurt you.'' Even though thrillers aren’t among my favourite reads, this one had all the right ingredients. A mix of Dystopian Fiction with a healthy dose of Paranormal and two extremely interesting main characters. It was creepy and fascinating.News of a series of completely abnormal action begin to reach the USA. In a contemporary world, violent deaths start from an area in Russia and escalate, spreading everywhere. What is it that makes these deaths horr
Everyday people, citizens of quiet towns, people like us start attacking others and kill them in terrifying ways.
They only know the house they were born into as their world.
Imagine a world where we are forbidden to look outside, to look at a fellow human being, our own family...In this house, the characters toy with their lives.
Both the characters and the dialogue were really satisfying, in my opinion, and combined with the haunting prose they created an extremely memorable read.I don't need to feel frightened in order to like a book.
If the story is properly put together and the characters are interesting and as realistic as possible, I am satisfied.
This is both a good, and a bad thing - and the book is also both these things, as it began well but ended up being disappointing.The hook of Bird Box is, like in much post-apocalyptic fiction, The Event: a phenomenon which single-handedly destroys the old world order, and usually also depopulates most of the planet*.
A classic example is the global pandemic turning all of humanity into vampires in Richard Matheson's great I Am Legend, whose protagonist - Robert Neville - is literally the last (hu)man on earth.Bird Box, although set in Michigan, begins with a series of events in eastern Russia - first reports of people inexplicably attacking others and murdering them, and taking their own lives afterwards.
4 1/2 stars but I'm rounding it to 5 for originality. I could not put this book down for the last 100 pages. If you like the Walking Dead, horror or just a good scary thriller than this is the book for you. I hope there is a sequel and a movie!
Creepy, tense, scary! (The below lines are kind of spoilerish . . . but nothing the description on Goodreads doesn't already mention)Unable to use your eyes for fear of madness . . .Unseen and unknown terrors roaming outside . . .Trapped inside with the windows covered . . .The sanity of your companions in question . . .Running out of supplies . . .Seeking salvation, but not sure where to find it or who to trust . . .Pregnant . . .This was intense and a must read for horror and thriller fans everywhere.
there are a bunch of excellent 4-star reviews out there and I'm not sure I have a whole lot more to add.synopsis: it's the end of the world as we know it.
to gaze upon them means certain doom, or at least a murderous, suicidal insanity.
quite surprised that this book is the author's first novel - it doesn't read like it.
I was impressed by how the creatures are never truly described and the mystery remained a mystery.
oh man those scenes with the animals going insane!here's what I assume the creatures look like:(view spoiler)[
Wow, what a book!
Seriously scary and creepy.
You just have to keep reading to know how it ends.
Who can think of such a story...
Suspension and creepiness from start to end, intriguing story.
What's going on?
What happened leading up to this situation?
Will she and kids survive?
one h*ll of a story.
I say, this is also a seriously impressive case of woman power!
Great, great, entertaining book.
AB: Looking back at my books in 2015, upgraded this one to five stars.
Seriously, this book is a great read.
Wew...
Wew...
creepy..
I liked it so much that I constantly think about it whenever I hear a creepy noise in the dark or think how terrifying it would be if I had to face potential superbadawfuls blindfolded while walking to the creek behind my house for drinking water and I find myself continually recommending it to anyone who asks me for a creepy read.
No matter what you do, you must wear your blindfold and never look at what is waiting outside your doors .
Always blindfolded, always terrified, always knowing there is something waiting outside.
Locked in a safe house with covered windows, a small group of strangers huddle together and try to understand why the world they know has literally gone to hell in a very short time.
As a bonus to this horror story, we get a completely lovable protagonist in Malorie.
She doesn’t start out this tough, but by the end of the book she has transformed into a first rate, fighting heroine that refuses to give up.I wish I could have given a 5 star rating, but I desperately wanted answers to some loose ends left in the story.
You'll have to read it to find out.I LOVED THIS BOOK.
By the end of the book, you are floored by all she has gone through and how she survived with two newborns for four and a half years ALONE.
I loved Tom. What a fascinating story.
I could read more in this world.
I even cried at the end.The pacing was great and the flashback story-telling worked really well here.
SO GOOD.After reading a lot of my friends reviews, I'm going to add some spoiler comments.
It's really interesting how people can have such different experiences reading a book.
I had initially marked it, but when I started seeing people place it on their “horror shelves” I backed off.
Not since Mark Edwards’ The Magpies (five-star read for me) have I been subjected to such unrelenting creepiness (a really good thing)!
Something is happening outside.
This would normally bother me as I’m a big fan of excellent characterization, but in this novel it did not seem all that necessary.
I understand the author has a second book in the works, and I am hoping it will be a sequel.
It's not for everyone but most people I know have loved it.
We never know as the Author never shows us the Monster(s) in this book.
Malorie and her two young children are the main characters who are tying to survive in a horrible world.
Through the storytelling we learn what Malorie is experiencing both before and after the children are born.
When the children are old enough, Malorie decides to go down the river in search of others.
Read and find out.This is the perfect book to read on a dark night!
Close your eyes. There’s something standing in front of you. Something so monstrous, and beyond human comprehension, that anyone who sees it goes insane and kills themselves and others. This is the new reality for a young mother, Malorie, and her two kids, as they navigate blindfolded down a river in an effort to reach what they hope will be a sanctuary. It’s part survival horror, and part scary as f*ck!
Early into the story, Malerman introduces readers to his protagonist, Malorie, a young and somewhat fearful woman.
Malorie is set to challenge this world and after the death of her sister, answering the call in a newspaper, to find a group of people who are putting up a united front against whatever might be lurking.
Malerman offers readers little time to relax and ponder this, as things get more and more disturbing with each page-flip.
A stellar piece that will keep readers up well into the night, for a multitude of reasons.I'd not heard of this book before the other day, so when it received such hype, I had to see what Malerman might have done.
creepy!Mallory the protagonist in this book was a quietly strong woman....
when things started going completely sideways not only did she find her way to a safe place, but she was also pregnant....
Mallory on a river trip trying to find her way to an even safer place...
I absolutely 100% enjoyed this book more because of her fantastic narration, she made me feel as though I was there on that rowboat with her going down that river....*** thank you so much to my amazing blog partner V, this is a Sunday Swap read and I probably would have never picked it up otherwise ***📚🌹 find all my reviews on our lovely blog https://audiokilledthebookmark.com/
Sister review with Norma! So freaking out creepy, GOOD! Those are not words I thought I would ever put together. What were those things?Our full sister review can be found on our sister bloghttp://www.twogirlslostinacouleereadi...
Well, this had a different take after an apocalyptic event.The craziness starts in Russia, where people are going on a murderous rampage; then killing themselves.
Apparently, there is something outside that if seen, is causing people to go bat-shit crazy.It's not long before it reaches Michigan - and other parts of the country; and people start wearing blindfolds, putting drapes over the windows (or boarding them up) and not looking outside; hoping they won't be the next victim.
The present being: fours years after the event; where she is preparing to leave the property to go to another place.
WOooooOow. This book was thrilling. It was an addictive, (somewhat) scary, fascinating read. I feel like this would be a great book to recommend to people who don't read a lot because it's not too long, it's easy to read, and it is unputdownable. I don't want to say anything else about this book because it's so much more fun going into it with no previous knowledge. Also I imagine this would make a great audiobook too. So if you like creepy thrillers definitely check this one out!
BIRD BOX! What a blast! Tension filled and atmospheric, while not being altogether believable. I'm glad I finally read this and I'm looking forward to watching the film on Netflix next month.

