https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7362158-girl-in-translation
You probably don't want to listen to my rating, because I'm just a bit biased. However, I'd like to thank everyone who's posted here. Whether you love the book or hate it doesn't matter, I'm just glad you've taken the time to read it.
I've never read a book that described more accurately what it is like to be an Asian American immigrant.It's like Ms. Kwok took pieces of my own experience (growing up in a cockroach-infested apartment with parents scraping by by working multiple menial jobs), and lines lifted from my friends' stories (calling an eraser a rubber, telling parents report cards came out only at the end of the year) and merged them with a thrilling and thoroughly absorbing story.The novel takes the Chinese immigrant experience and lifts it from stereotypes; it's true that Kim is naive and academically oriented, but the author probes so deeply into her psyche and creates situations with such seriousness and honesty that she frees us from such simple labels.In terms of language, I thought Ms. Kwok did a great job of transposing Cantonese conversations into English (partly by keeping idioms) and of making the English Kim hears sound more foreign to the readers, in a creative way.
In this debut novel, Kwok tells the story of Kimberly Chang and her mother, immigrants from Hong Kong to Brooklyn.
As Kimberly navigates her private school and all the typical milestones that come with it, her aunt grows more and more resentful of her and tries with all her power to prevent the Changs from achieving the American Dream just out of spite.
Because this is fiction, Kimberly uses her math to obtain a happy ending; however, not all real life immigrants are nearly as fortunate, especially if they do not have a strong work ethic.
I recommend this to all looking for a change of pace contemporary fiction book, and am looking forward to Kwok's second novel Mambo in Chinatown.
I'm very hesitant to review this book, mostly because I'm not quite sure how to put to words what it is that reading this has made me feel.It is at once both very familiar, and yet completely foreign.
The Cantonese, the way that the author translates the slang and the phrases, the cultural traditions, the deeply embedded lifestyle that is Chinese pride and saving face...when I read about that, it was like something sparked in my blood.
It's as if I'm a relative, but once-removed.Overall, I don't think I've been as deeply moved by any other book I've read this year than I have by this one.

The story of Kimberly - Ah Kim - Chang is a very honest one, the story of a Chinese girl who immigrates to America with her mother in hopes of a better lucrative life.
The story starts with Kimberly's arrival in America, and follows her through high school and her life as a factory worker until about the last 7% of the book when the narration switches to the present.
And maybe life had rubbed her in the wrong way but it bestowed upon her gifts like determination and perseverance and a drive to succeed, and most of all a great appreciation for the little things that should count for a lot.
Somehow, I managed to finish this book, though I complained about it the entire time (I know, my own fault, I should have shut up or stopped reading it).
I suffered through the whole thing because the author had a compelling story to tell.
It felt like the worst kind of adolescent literature (the best kind being those that actually tell stories with vivid, descriptive, in-depth language regardless of the fact that they are written for children).
Yes, the immigrant experience is a fascinating topic, yes, her story made most of our American childhoods look pretty cushy, but reading it felt like the literary equivalent of really bad junk food.
It's hard to believe that conditions in which Kim and her mother had to live still exist to this day, it definitely sounds like something from a movie, but they definitely do.
(hide spoiler)]Unrealistic once again, it honestly felt like the ending was just a weird scramble of the most cliche endings possible - it just didn't go with the tone of the novel at all (I know I'm repeating myself, but only because it's true!) Kim's mother wasn't a character I had any sympathy for.
For Kimberly, a Chinese immigrant residing in the slums of Brooklyn, it's a hard knock life indeed.
Her mother and her come from Hong Kong when Kimberly is approximately eleven years of age and fully dependent on Aunt Paula, a jealous relative, they find themselves living intimately with roaches and rats in a garbage-bag-in-place-of-windows, illegal apartment with no heat or air.
This novel is all about her school years from the age of eleven to the time of graduation when a very adult Kimberly tries to get her mother and herself out of the roach infested apartment and far away from Aunt Paula's control and wrath.

An insightful debut about immigration, hardship, and striving for education and success against all odds, enveloped by a tentative love story. Threre's a Chinese saying that the fates are winds that blow through our lives from every angle, urging us along the paths of time. Those who are strong-willed may fight thestorm and possibly choose their own road, while the weak must go where they are blown. I say I have not been so much pushed by winds as pulled forward by the force of my decisions. Gir
Kimberly translates herself back and forth between a world where she can barely afford clothes and a world where, in spite of her intelligence, she's supposed to look the part as she reaches for higher education.It is a tale of survival and beating the odds, but ultimately, it is also a fragile love story in an unforgiving environment.The narration is raw, honest, and authentic, with the Chinese culture being cleverly woven into the storyline.
As she assimilates I find my attention moving to anger at the heartless aunt who has them in virtual bondage, living in a condemned building without heat, working 12 or more hours a day.
Kim is a hard working student struggling to balance her school and economic demands, living two lives: private prep school phenomenon and Chinese factory girl.
She is in honors classes at a private academy, skips two grades in math and science, works in the library, has a period off during which she necks with boys, takes the subway to China town and works until at the factory until 9, 10 or later?
There are some other choices and consequences later in the book that cause me to question reality.
She kept calling him beautiful, talked about what a wonderful person he was, but he pretty much demands that she spend her life living in a crappy apartment in Chinatown, having babies starting at 18, dropping out of school, and basically give up every dream she'd ever had so that he can "take care of her and be a man." The big surprise hinted at on page one of the book was not a surprise at all when it is revealed, 10 pages towards the end, and it also didn't seem to effect her life's journey in any meaningful way, which made no sense.
This was a really good read. A mom and daughter immigrate to America and endure hardships working in a sweatshop owned by a relative. It's about a girl who is smart as a whip who is finding her way to save her and her mother by getting an education. It's a story of survival. Good character development and an interesting perspective. Unbelievable that such conditions did exist. I think her story is one of many stories of these immigrants who were taken advantage of and didn't have the knowledge or courage to fight back.
Kwok's tale really grabs you, and if you have a hard time crediting some of the details, the deeper unease is with the undeniable fact that the world she portrays - piecework for far less than minimum wage, children laboring in factories, squatting in unheated condemned buildings - is not a sepia-toned memory of my great-grandparents' (or A Tree Grows in BK's) New York, but a contemporary reality.But, having a great story to tell does not excuse cheap ripped-from-Harlequin double-twist endings.
Without spoilers, there's nothing about the last 10% of the book that I found credible, or true to the story that Kwok has told up to that point.
To survive their horrible living conditions and financial struggles Kimberly works with her mother at a sweatshop in the afternoon while attending school in the daytime.
But when she meets Matt, a compassionate boy who also works at the sweatshop, she'll choose between everything she's worked so ambitiously to achieve and her first love.I'm not a stranger when it comes to immigrant experiences - my mother and father were both immigrants, and the stories they share with me motivate me to work harder.
It is told from the daughter's perspective, Kim, and covers the sacrifices her mother made to bring her to New York, the abysmal (and illegal) living situations they endured, and their ultimate triumph.
They cannot stop and risk being late for work, and the whole time at work, Kim's mother worries that someone will take the rolls of fabric.
When they leave the factory late that night and rush back to the dumpster and discover it is still there, it is the jackpot of all jackpots: Carpet, pillows, bedding, tablecloths, underwear, sweaters are all fashioned from the lime green fabric.Kim's struggles and ultimate triumph at school are also happy tearjerkers.
4.5 stars I really liked this book, a lot.
The book focuses on the experiences of culture clash, isolation and all the other difficulties they go through to adapt to the strange new world they find themselves in.
There was a lot of bits that had me laugh out loud, one particular part where a boy in school wouldn't stop bullying Kimberly because of her clothes.
fav line:I thought "I never want to love someone like that, no even him, so much that there would be no room left for myself, so much that I wouldn't be able to survive if he left me."
She also changed Matt into a jerk by making him randomly unsupportive of Kim’s aspirations.
After Kim decided against having an abortion, she withheld her child from having a good father.
She wouldn't have had to give up Yale--or even a career--for a marriage and family with Matt.
The only reason Kim didn't try to get back together with Matt, after she decided against an abortion, was because he went back to Vivian afterwards?
Then they moved near Yale while Kim worked and went to school and her mother helped care for the baby.
Then one day she realizes how little her mother earns, that Ma will never have the time or energy after a grueling day’s work to learn English and get a better job, and that if they depend on Aunt Paula, Kimberly will end up working at the sweatshop when she finishes school.
Jean Kwok opens to us the heart and mind of a young girl doggedly steering her way out of that world, and it’s an unforgettable ride.What I Learned About Writing from Reading This BookThis is a novel drawn from personal experience and there is an authenticity to Girl in Translation you rarely encounter.
Someone needs to teach this author and/or the editor how to use italics.This is a coming of age story about an 11-year old Chinese girl who comes from Hong Kong with her mother to live in NY in an abandoned tenement with no heat, and work in a clothing factory sweatshop.
There is nothing said about how great their disappointment must be.On a positive note, Kwok does use her own experience working in a clothing factory to add authenticity to these parts of the story showing that the sweatshop conditions have not changed much from the days of the Triangle Shirtwaist Factory; only the immigrants are just a different ethnic group now.
I liked this book. I didn't love it, but I did enjoy it. Should you read it? Yes, if you get it free or for a couple dollars.
I have increased the rating from 4 to 5 stars as this is one of a few novels that has stayed with me a couple of years after reading.I actually obtained this book for my wife as it was on a "top twenty books a woman should read" list.
Without revealing the content of the book, the story focuses on the life of a bright young girl who moves from Hong Kong to the USA with her mother.
The story follows this young girls transition into a new culture as she attempts to maintain her two worlds, her school and friends and the garment factory.It has been too long for me to recall the content and provide my regular analysis.
It was a very easy story to follow and readers never knew what was going to happen next.
There are few reviews about this book on goodreads, but all of them are positive and the readers enjoyed the book.
Kim picked it up not knowing what it was,and the teacher saw Kim and took the sheet out of her hand.
A boy in her class named Curt saw what happened,and knew she was innocent.
He then goes down to the office and sees her in the room and explains to the principals what has happened.
Overall, I really enjoyed this book and I would recommend it to other readers.
I loved the first 85% of it and then hated the rest.
Although it appears she is a loving and caring mother, what she did is unforgiveable, in my eyes.
I was also very disappointed when Matt and Kimberly kissed after she dropped him off.
For a married man to kiss an old love, or anyone for that matter, is inappropriate.
I know how I would feel if I found out my husband had met with and kissed an old girlfriend...especially while I was pregnant with his child.
I really enjoyed the rest of the book.
Kimberly's (main character) aunt had an agreed meant with her mother, that if she helped her into the new country, Kimberly's mother will help her aunt with factory work.The "Girl in Translation" reminds me bit like Salva after moving to America, just like Salva, Kimberly moved to America.
Both Kimberly and Salva experiences a time of disagree meant in there own country.
At this part she reminds me of the rebels, even though the rebels are part of the country, they continue to break apart, by north and southern sides; they both were fighting to take over Sudan.
Both souls are fighting over her body, but it only seems to break her even more.
“Sometimes our fate is different from the one we imagined for ourselves.” Jean Kwok has managed to create an interesting and eye-opening read out of an experience that so many American immigrants have experienced within their lives.
There's so much truth to Kimberly's story, and I loved reading her experiences and thoughts from her point of view.
This is a wonderfully heart-warming and eye-opening story that I think everyone should read.
I thought that was such an important and powerful aspect of the story - the fact that no matter who comes along in your life, whether you intend for them to be there or not, can impact you in one way or another.
She's been granted a full scholarship at an exclusive New York secondary school despite living in an appalling slum with her widowed mother who works all the hours God sends in a garment sweatshop in Chinatown run by her elder sister and brother-in-law, who carefully extract payment for the medicines the mother needed to overcome TB in Hong Kong before emigrating, for the airline tickets to the US, and for rent of the so-called 'apartment' in a fully-decayed area of Brooklyn.
Mixed thoughts about this one🙄.A migrant story about a mother and daughter who come to America from HongKong and the story of how she becomes a successful doctor and at what cost.It started on a promising note and then meandered off course.It also took me a long time to complete it.I did not like the fact that the protagonist was self apologetic and and chose to justify her actions and decisions.Well,We all fail,we all fall but the idea is to rise up with a smile 😏.
Eleven-year-old Kimberly emigrates from Hong Kong to the U.S. with her impoverished widowed mother in seek of a better life; the two struggle with adversity in the form of unsympathetic teachers and classmates, exploitative relatives, extreme poverty, etc., etc.
Especially if she was so very bright.I got through a little more than 25% of this before skimming reviews to see if others felt the way I did, and read more than one review reporting that the book started off good and went downhill.
