https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/171160.The_Puzzle_of_the_Silver_Persian
SPANISH: Interesante novela policíaca, aunque debo decir que el gato del título desempeña un papel bastante secundario.
Fui capaz de detectar quién era la persona que había cometido los crímenes antes que la señorita Hildegarde Withers.
Aunque eso normalmente le habría quitado interés a la obra, el autor casi consiguió engañarme, moviéndome a descartar a esa persona justo antes del final, pero después de todo resultó que yo sí había acertado :-)ENGLISH: Interesting mystery novel, although I must say that the cat in the title has just a rather secondary role.
I was able to detect who was the murderer before Miss Hildegarde Withers.
In The Puzzle of the Silver Persian, Stuart Palmer takes the indomitable Hildegarde Withers--schoolteacher and amateur sleuth--on a vacation to England via the S.
It isn't until she visits the Cornwall castle home of two of her fellow passengers and understands the clue left by Tobermory, the silver Persian cat in question, that the puzzle is finally unraveled.Miss Withers is a bit out of her element in this one.
There are plenty of clues for the observant reader to pick up in this rather fine vintage mystery.
A fun mystery set on a boat. That's all I got for this one.
I Book- $1.99. 3.5 stars Miss Withers helps solve mysteries with many twists and turns
This is the first book I've read in this series and, while I think it would have been nice to know more history on Hildegarde Withers, it wasn't absolutely necessary to understand the whole story.Miss Withers is not enjoying her reward from the last case, a trip overseas.
But she is having major seasickness and misses the excitement on board.
Later that night, Miss Withers is on deck, sees the girl, and when she turns around, the heiress is gone.
There's nothing to suggest murder and it's just easier to close the case.
There's another murder before Miss Withers can figure out the solution.
Beautiful young Rosemary thinks she's disgraced herself forever on her trip to England on the American Diplomat. There's nothing to do about it but jump into the cold ocean. Or--is there? Some of the people she feels humiliated her die suddenly. Was Rosemary really murdered? Were some of the deaths accidental? And why are excerpts from Rosemary's diary showing up in anonymous letters? Miss Hildegarde Withers was too seasick to pay much attention to what happened on shipboard, but once the crowd hits London, she's in there detecting with Scotland Yard. Not the best of this series, perhaps.
The mystery may not have been the best, but it's an enjoyable read, full of interesting historical tidbits from when the easiest and most economical way to visit Britain from the US was by ship. And an extra star for the Silver Persian himself, who plays an important role in the story. Which was the whole reason I picked up the book in the first place. Mystery with a cat? I'm there! :)
great mystery
For my full review click on the link below:https://crossexaminingcrime.wordpress...
I enjoyed the book, as I do many of the Palmer stories, but the plot was a cliche that immediately pointed out the guilt of the murderer. An interesting twist on an impossible crime though.
read some time in 1991
