https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5091.The_Dark_Tower
The Dark Tower series was written in fits and starts by King from the time he was in college to wrapping up the whole thing in a three book burst following his close encounter with a minivan.
So the series as whole isn’t the most tightly plotted thing you’ll ever read, and at the end King focused on delivering on the emotional journey rather than trying to wrap up every loose end he had hanging out there.He chose wisely.I consider this King’s flawed masterpiece.
If you haven't started it:a) do sob) don't read the spoilers hereThe Dark Tower series is an incredibly varied set of books, written over the course of more than 30 years - written by a young man starting out on a wholly uncertain writing future - written by an old man looking back on a glittering career - and punctuated by all his experiences, discoveries, epiphanies.
Given the nature of the ending and King's skill I wonder if these weren't perhaps intended to be anticlimaxes with everything turning out to be less impressive, less important, more shabby and spoiled than it had been built up to be in Roland's mind.
(B+) 79% | GoodNotes: A memorable final hundred pages to a book and series that were highly imaginative but also drawn out and uneven.
(This email will likely be longish)THE SERIES: I think the Dark Tower series is King's crowning achievement as a writer.
I know many wouldn't agree with me, but I think Roland entering the Dark Tower and the doors shutting behind him wouldn't be a bad way to end the book.
I don't think I've ever read a book with an ending that has left me so effected.
I think Roland's destiny was to save the Beam, save the Dark Tower.
Maybe I'm just grateful that King didn't end it the way I feared.
I am one of Stephen King's 'constant readers.' Usually I am a big fan, and I've bought enough of his expensive hardcovers over the years that I'm perfectly comfortable throwing in my two cents about the dreadful way he ended The Dark Tower.I'm applying that two stars rating to the last three books of the series, Wolves of the Calla, Song Of Susannah (UGH!) and this, The Dark Tower.
I hope King read Deathly Hollows and saw the way a writer can end their story with a satisfying bang, instead of this muddled, poorly plotted disappointment.I could go on and on, but it is getting late.Gotta say, though- I'm surprised by all the five star ratings.
It wasn't so much the ending itself - the wheel of ka seemed quite apt -so much as the let down of so many loose ends of the story.
How events and characters had played such a large part in the story, only to come to almost nothing.
I didn't like Stephen King's inclusion in the story.
In the previous volume I thought it was quite clever, but in this volume it really read like he'd just run out of ideas and was prepared to throw in any old nonsense in order to just get the series finished.
Can Roland and his friends stop the Breakers of Algul Siento, safeguard the Beam, protect the Rose, stop Stephen King from being run down and killed, and reach the Dark Tower?This is the end of my favorite epic of all time.
When Roland calls out the names of his ka-tet and the others outside the tower, I'd be lying if I said I hadn't thought of doing something similar.There's a feeling of suspense throughout most of the 800 pages, from the battle at Algul Siento to the saving of Stephen King to the final fight at the end.
Its the way he spends two books essentially stripping the series of everything good about it and replacing it with trite, poorly done, nudge nudge wink wink garbage.
I waited years to find out how this would all end and to get a hastily done, sloppily written, poorly thought out book, capped with a lecture on how endings suck, swiftly followed by a non-ending is in a lot of ways insulting.
I understand King didn't have a lot of desire to finish the series and was tired of people bugging him about it.
Originally reviewed at Bookwraiths Reviews The quest for the Dark Tower is ending! All the weary miles, endless deaths, heroic stands, and lost loved ones is finally coming to an end for Roland Deschain of Gilead and his ka-tet.  And the weary but dedicated fan can finally savor that ending. An ending that will somehow, someway tie up all the loose plots and cause all their frustration about the years between novels, the endless lore changes, the confusing multiverse, and even Stephen King writ
An ending that will somehow, someway tie up all the loose plots and cause all their frustration about the years between novels, the endless lore changes, the confusing multiverse, and even Stephen King writing himself into the story to disappear from their minds	For the end of the Dark Tower Saga will be a wonderful, dramatic, earth-shattering ending.
As Stephen King himself writes at the end of the Quest for the Dark Tower:I’ve told my tale all the way to the end, and am satisfied.
Para leer en 5,6 y 7 sí deberían tener referencia de otros libros del autor relacionado directamente con la torre oscura.
En cuanto a los demás libros del autor, hay referencias a la torre, unas mas grandes que otros, pero no dejan de ser eso, referencias que pueden ser leídas luego de leer la saga completa.La alegoría de la historia es la torre, todos tenemos una, todos tenemos eso que deseamos alcanzar, es lo que le da sentido a nuestras vida es lo que la da sentido a la vida de Roland y de su Katet.
I wrote into the series and I won’t help you.”“Well then I reckon I’m just gonna have to leave ya tied up.”As Stephen King’s curses echoed in the stairwell and the gunslingers ears, he felt fatigued from his climb but knew instinctively that he was getting closer to the top of the tower.Cackling laughter floated down from the next floor.
”The roses of Can'-Ka No Rey opened before him in a path to the Dark Tower, the yellow suns deep in their cups seeming to regard him like eyes.”Journey’s end approaches, and the last gunslinger at last sets his gaze upon the great shadowy column at the end of the road.
Although the beginning kicked off with a continuation of the climactic part of Song of Susannah, this book as a whole was the most boring part of the Dark Tower series since the second book.
For Roland Deschain of Gilead, last of Eld's line, the path ended at the Dark Tower.
It’s not about the journey anymore.
It’s like you held your breath for the last 300 pages or so.And then you’re finally there, standing beside Roland, crying the names of your friends and loved ones and ka-mates; those names carried clear in that strange air, as if they would echo forever.You enter the Dark Tower.You begin to climb the stairs and soon enough you find yourself at the top of the Dark Tower, watching your name carved on the last door.You open it.And you understand...(view spoiler)[...how useless your life can be.
You’re like Sisif, rolling a boulder uphill, without end.
I know everything King wanted us to know about Roland, Eddie, Jake, Susannah, Oy, and every character in-between.
Well, we won't go there...;) Like I said, I didn't really know what kind of ending I wanted for Roland.
When Eddie died, I felt like...the journey really started to be 'over.' When Jake died...I was so damned angry at King.
But, I guess in the end, he didn't really die...He just took his life to somewhere where Mid-World can't harm him any longer.Roland, I've definitely loved since he openend the three doors, and formed his ka-tet.
The Dark Tower is more than an ending of the series, it has much more to offer.
And if I had known about it back then - before turning the first pages of Christine that sent me on my lifelong love affair with King's books - then I would have read it in its entirety before any other of his works.
I wish I had started this as a King virgin because I would love to read his books for the first time AFTER the Dark Tower.
A long tale, like a tall Tower, must be built a stone at a time.”The world has moved on, so it has.
But as King himself states in the Coda- the fun is in the journey.I don’t think there was a more perfect way to end this series.
You'll wear out a hundred pairs of boots on your way to hell.”Roland himself states that  “You needn't die happy when your time comes, but you must die satisfied, for you have lived your life from the beginning to the end and ka is always served.” And has Roland been satisfied?
It "felt good, like he never felt it before", and you knew - just knew that this would be the last time.No, it wasn't the loop.It was Patrick fucking Danville being introduced to the story in the last 100 or so pages, and magically erasing out the Crimson King, the ultimate Big Bad of the story who ended up being some asshole on a balcony throwing sneetches!There was no final confrontation between Roland and Mordred (not really), between Roland and the CK, or between Roland and Walter/Flagg (and I won't get started on how lame of a death that was).
It took me longer than every other book in the series and I think that’s because I really didn’t want to finish it.
It was so nice to say I was still working on the dark tower.
But it’s over now and I can never again read the dark tower series for the first time, which is fine I suppose since everyone who has read it before knows that once we complete the journey, restarting it is only natural.I loved this series.
I was lost in all the worlds King strung together and I didn’t want to leave.
In the series’ finale, Roland and his ka-tet draw ever closer to their destiny as the Tower is finally within reach, however, death and destruction lie ahead.
Can Roland reach his ultimate destination without paying a heavy price?It took King nearly twenty-two years to finish the series (from the publication of The Gunslinger) and in the end, he did not disappoint.
He was seemingly half-dead from food poisoning when he finally caught up with Roland leading a fairly swift and anti-climactic death at the hands of the Gunslinger - but not before killing Oy (an unforgivable sin).The Crimson King really sucked.Patrick Danville seemed like a weird addition to finish off the novel and having him kill the man responsible for 99% of the shit that happens in the book seemed like an odd choice.
PFFFTT... What?!? Perfect ending, perfect series (although wizard and glass was a bit of a snooze). One of those endings where you need to go back and read the whole thing all over again.Long days and pleasant nights
I feel like I'm broken in 10 different places.
Roland Deschain of Gilead has finally completed his quest to reach The Dark Tower - none for the better, none for the worse.There were so much losses, heartbreaks, and blood.
SO MUCH BLOOD WAS SHED.
When I've patched up all 10 broken pieces of myself, I'll be doing a super lengthy review of the entire Dark Tower series.
This is the best series I've ever read in my short life so far.
First to Harry Potter even.
(and I thought no other series could top The Harry Potter series).Say sorry, sai-Rowling.
Getting to finally "see" the Dark Tower was such a relief, after 6.5 books of searching for it, Mr. King will make you feel as if you're standing at Roland's side the rest of the way.
I highly recommend this series as a whole, but would suggest reading a few books before going on this journey: Salem's Lot, It, Insomnia, Hearts in Atlantis, and The Stand.
Reading these before The Dark Tower series will make it that much more fulfilling by the end of the journey.
I've read all those books except for Insomnia, so there were some references that went over my head!Dark Tower 7 - 5 starsDark Tower Series - 4.5 stars
One of my reading challenges this year was to read the entire Dark Tower series and I did it!
For me, this series was mostly a three-star read, except The Gunslinger (book #1) and Wizard & Glass (book #4) were both four-star reads.
Overall, this isn’t my favorite series or my favorite work from Stephen King, but I still enjoyed it and I’m glad I finally read it.
I’m a big fan of The Stand, so if you want something apocalyptic, that’s a must-read.
By the way, I’ve officially read 33 Stephen King novels!
Now my big decision is which King novel I should read next!
I really lost faith after reading that in book 6.The Crimson King was hugely disappointing.
(this isn’t a joke, I promise you) He gets sucked back all the way to the beginning of the first book, forgetting what happens with a hint that this time around, things may be different (he was supposed to blow the Horn of the Eld at the base of the Tower, but lost it as a kid.
He even warns the readers before the last chapter to stop reading, because they will be disappointed, and to simply enjoy the book for the journey getting there.
Let me begin by saying that I think the readers who complain about the ending are...whining!
It just took a few "drafts", if you will.I realized in this book, that as much as I loved Roland's Ka-Tet, Susannah was important to me only because of her interaction with "the boys".
No, he isn't the most sensitive, sympathetic sweetheart, but if Roland Deschain loves you, although you may die a tragic death, your life will have been worth the living.
The man I have come to love more and more with each installment, but mostly with THIS one.
This is an amazing and heart-wrenching and appropriate end to this epic series.
As much as I love this book, I always hit a point on re-reads where I just stall.
Not because the book is bad (it's most absolutely definitely assuredly not), but because after taking this journey with these characters I love so much, after being with them for so long, I dread the end...
This series is the epitome of escapist reading for me.
I dream about this series and live in it while I read, and love it for a multitude of reasons that I couldn't even begin to enumerate here.
While a few of the books in this series are pretty good, they are hardly comparable to the Lord of the Rings, which I'm not a big fan of either.
King even becomes a main character in this final book, and in the worst possible way!!
I put the book down halfway through and don't care about it anymore.Obviously I liked the Dark Tower books enough to keep reading them, but like any series that takes years to finish, you feel that you really know the characters after a while.
Let's stop with the story itself because you are reading the review for the last book, so you're probably here in order to try and feel more of Roland's life in your mind, even though maybe five minutes ago you closed the book and shoved it at the wall, screaming at the top of your lungs: STEPHEN KING, YOU SICK SON OF A BITCH, HOW DO YOU DARE STOMP INTO MY LIFE AND SHIT ALL OVER IT?!
Bilo je potrebno da Džejk umre, da mu Valter prorekne sudbinu, da svojim rukama nasilno dovuče Edija i pomogne Odeti da prihvati Detu, da naiđu na prvi pravi putokaz u vidu Zraka medveda, da se ponovo sretnu sa Džejkom i prihvate bambura Oja za saputnika.
Na posletku, bilo je potrebno da preboli gubitak svojih prijatelja.(view spoiler)[Bilo je potrebno 3464 stranica dok Roland nije ugledao Mračnu kulu i susreo se sa Grimiznim kraljem.
(hide spoiler)]Postaje jasno da nema mnogo opcija koje nam kazuju šta se iza poslednjih vrata nalazi.
Obe opcije su opcije koje označavaju smrt.(view spoiler)["Smrt, ali ne za tebe, revolverašu.
Prava je šteta što Roland nije više učio od njih.
«Ο μαυροντυμένος άντρας έφυγε στην έρημο και ο πιστολέρο τον ακολούθησε.» Ολόκληρη η κριτική θα μπορούσε να είναι μόνο αυτή η πρόταση.
Είναι ίσως η καλύτερη φράση/έναρξη που έχει γράψει ο King και κατά την άποψη μου το νόημα της σειράς.Πάμε όμως λίγο πιο αναλυτικά: ΠΡΟΣΟΧΗ!
Χτίζει τόσο πολύ το μύθο του απόλυτου κακού και στο τέλος βλέπουμε έναν τρελό γέρο που φωνάζει ΙΙΙΙΙΙΙΙ και πεθαίνει από μία γόμα.
Αφού περνάει την πόρτα ο Ρόλαντ και ξανα επιστρέφει στην έρημο έχει μαζί του κάτι που δεν είχε την προηγούμενη φορά.
Οπότε ίσως κάθε φορά που φτάνει στο Πύργο και ξαναρχίζει, έχει και κάτι περισσότερο.
