https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12967.Winter_s_Tale
But it's a terribly low standard that, in this case, gives us page after page of constructions like this: "Across the river was an eighteenth-century knoll with trees standing upon it like peasant women with arms akimbo, and the spotlight of the sun firing their green tops, while black shadows below suggested a grove of infinite proportions." Nevermind the grammar.
Would that be the way to capture their greatness?) Ironically, then, Helprin's fans and many critics like him for the very reasons I think he's awful - the construction of individual sentences draw attention to themselves (particularly convenient if you're writing a newspaper book review), and are intent on being evocative as an end in itself -- a kind of Platonic evocativeness.
(Mind you, these are not BAD books, but they are SAFE choices, and what fun is a book club if everyone says, "Yes, I loved the book," then quietly sips their wine?)So, I will go armed to the book club on the third Wednesday of this month, and I will FIGHT for this book, and argue that we need to read MORE like it!
The last thing Mrs. Gamely said to her daughter was, “Remember, what we are trying to do in this life is to shatter time and bring back the dead.” Winter’s Tale is a BIG book. I refer not only to its 748-page length, but to its ambition. It is a big book about big ideas, and it takes some big characters to realize the author’s ambition. There are a few here. Colin Farrell as … Peter Lake, the rock on which Mark Helprin builds much of his story, shares his genesis with the likes of Moses and Ka
Colin Farrell as … Peter Lake, the rock on which Mark Helprin builds much of his story, shares his genesis with the likes of Moses and Kal-El, set adrift as an infant in a small craft in New York harbor when his immigrant-wannabe parents are about to be turned away.
Peter makes his way from Dickensian street urchin to mechanic to gang-member and burglar, to something grander.Listo as …Athansor is a great white horse, the stuff of legends, which comes in handy when there are impossible distances to be leapt and rescues or escapes to be effected.
If "Ulysses" is like that boyfriend/girlfriend with whom you're Totaly Fucking In Love, and with whom you constantly fight, and break up, and get back together, and cheat on or get cheated on by, and break up with again, and get back together with again, and sit in your car outside their house listening to Fall Out Boy and crying and about whom you talk incessantly to your friends about what an Impossible Heartless Pointless Slutty Asshole they are and then light up like a schoolchild on Christmas morning when you get a text message from them, then "Winter's Tale" is like the best friend who you kind of secretly want to marry one day.
Peter Lake is a likable character, and his romance with Beverly Penn is an intriguing and touching one.But then we put Mr. Lake away for a long time – more than half this enormous novel – and describe and describe and describe.
And those detours add up to approximately 350 pages (a full novel, in other words) that a reader regrets suffering through by the end.Ah, the end.
Helprin can’t seem to figure out how to end the novel, actually.
And the reader responds, understandably aloud, “No, I don’t!”Were this novel 400 pages long, and concerned only with the Peter Lake and Beverly Penn characters, it would be recommendable.
Flowery and ultimately meaninglessThere are many beautifully descriptive passages, mostly of the wind & snow; the best are those concerning the magical horse Althansor.
Unfortunately, there are many of them, and I found my heart beginning to sink whenever another chapter began with another beautifully descriptive passage about the wind & snow.I never did discover a plot.
The human characters came and went without any real impact, either on the story or on me, although the magical horse is characterized probably better than most.
Peter falls madly in love with Beverly Penn, a beautiful, frail young woman who (despite her few years on Earth) displays the wisdom and sensitivity of someone five times her age...She's almost unearthly, and her love for Peter Lake is like an infinitely blazing star, or rather, a universe of infinitesimal blazing stars that are perpetually waltzing about to a piano...playing softly.
Their love story, which is the focus of the first half of this beast of a book, will undoubtedly consume you, much like Life consumed Beverly Penn.Throughout the majority of the book, Peter Lake is running from the relentless pursuits of the morally corrupt, vacuous band of thieves known as the Short Tails.
Everything happens without much point, even within the universe of the book.
How many people will fall in love as soon as they see a person?
How many times will Helprin insist that this is "true love"?
More random people falling in love, this time via a wall.
What is the purpose of introducing so many characters I wonder, other than to make them fall in love with each other?
And I find it hilarious that there is a character in the book who talks like she is raping the dictionary.
And I do not mean it is "magical" to read, but that literally it contains magic.Let me start by stressing that this novel is for READERS.
When I first began, I was a little thrown off by the style and the story itself, but soon I was caught inside and it was wonderful.
I read all the time and very, very seldom do I find myself so completely wrapped up in a book, a story so intense and incredible that I feel both protective and proud of the text, the characters, everything.
I've got little chance of meeting my reading challenge this year because I keep reading books that weigh more than I do.
On the back cover someone refers to it as a gifted writer's love affair with language, which perhaps is a polite way of saying it's a very self-indulgent novel.
Essentially, it's a writer with prodigious resources of vitality and mental agility enjoying himself.
This partly due to the excessive number of characters, all of whom fall a little short of being riveting.
At times Helprin reminds me of David Mitchell, the mischief and vitality, though the former's humour is less sophisticated.
I feel like it took twelvty hundred years to get through this book.
The concept of a "pure" anything is, to me, dangerous and foolhardy, and Helprin dwells on two big ones -- justice and love -- until they're as abstracted and unwieldy as they can possibly be, and no payoff could possibly equal the gigantic build-up.And really, despite what anyone says about the Eskimos, there are probably only about four or five ways you can describe snow without becoming a droning bore.All that being said, the book does reach some great heights, and it's usually in the simpler, plot-driven parts.
It was the City Of Books, and this was the kind of book, nay, the Very Kind and most-principal example, that was written then, and by rights most highly regarded by the Reading Citizenry to deck the halls and paper the walls.But --more than- enough, of sounding like the book.
Like other novels of its era it wants to use Magical Realism as a way to bookend the harshly realistic with the presumably magical and oh-so-twee -- in order to produce a third kind of reality.
Like other novels of its era it uses outlandishly cartoonish character names to produce cartoonish characters, and cares little for setting up narrative structures that produce narrative results.
Winter's Tale held the promise of being a book that I would have loved: a fantastical novel set in a New York City of the Belle Epoque but in some alternate universe with perpetual winters, with a large cast of characters and a love story at its core.
Or worse - this is an actual edited book, and somewhere in the universe still exists the original manuscript of Winter's Tale, three times as long.This is a book which is clearly aware of the fact that it's at least partly a fantasy, but wanted to be more than that.
I couldn't finish this. I know a lot of people loved it, but it just wasn't for me. I thought it was a turgid mess of cutesiness and magical realism, and I was rolling my eyes so much I finally had to stop. Maybe you will like it more.
I haven't finished reading it yet, even though I've made it from the front cover to the back cover at least four times now.
He has the gift of a born storyteller, who can lash together random letters and words into the most magical tale imagined.
I haven't read another book quite like it, and am in fact afraid to read any of his other works, fearing that I might not like them so much, slightly marring my opinion of him as a writer.
But that's just silly and I plan to read his other works as well...just as soon as I finish reading "Winter's Tale" again.
I don't know what to think or say about this book.
I started it over three times and every time I lost interest, lost track of what was going on, and I finally decided life was too short.Winter's Tale had a bunch of sing song prose that really could have used a good culling.
Ultimately, I didn't know who anyone was and I didn't care, because all the pretty prose got in the way.
Sure, make it a little pretty.....but everything in moderation!There was a white horse and an Irish dude named Peter (I think), organized crime, a bad guy named Pearl who wanted a golden room.That's all I know.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
We'll see if I can stand to be away from the Malazen series for a bit.I almost finished this 2 weeks ago, but couldn't bear to so I left the last 10 pages.
Now I'm done, and I'm sorry to have woken up from a most magnificent dream.
Because that's what this book was for me - reading it I would enter a fugue state, images would move across my internal screen, sounds would erupt and then fade away, I witnessed so many things, some terrible some so beautiful I felt like crying, as I walked through this incredible landscape of New York City and upstate.
I DID IT!I survived this book!I am the STRONGEST!RAAAAAAAAAR! That's me after finishing this story.Soooo...I hated it.I totally read this in the wrong age (both in terms of my physical age and in terms of the century in which I am currently living) - I should have read this when I was in my young 20's, still idealistic and full of wonder, before the world changed over to the new millennium and 9/11.I think had I read this back then, I'd have been enchanted.In fact, I was enchanted through probab
It was just smooshed together and forced to get along)For me, it went from surreal and magical, charming and quaint to full-on pretentious and then to plain, ol' silly.I suppose if I had to write a paper on this book, I'd say something about Peter Lake being a representation of the last beautiful age in America and Pearly Somes being the antithesis/reality of our sentimentality.
And we have the magical, stuck-in-time-and-space Lake of the Coheres which is like a stepping stone from the last golden age to the turn of this past century and where wise women who love words live.
There were a lot of story-lines that had nothing to do with the plot and I found I had to keep re-reading sections to try to figure out what was happening.
For instance the battle between the two newspapers was just boring to read, unnecessary to the plot and went on for too long (200 pages) and should have been cut from the book.
I would have liked to read more of their love story but the other subplots and characters got in the way.
From the warm A and E chords and heartbeat drum of the opening motif to the soaring bridge and the bass that feels as if it's part of your bloodstream, it's a song I want to crawl inside.
It is 750 pages of saudade and hiraeth.
If you want to know what it feel like to soar on the crest of a sentence that tumbles into the wave of a paragraph, then builds into the tsunami of a story, read Winter's Tale.
I read this book thirty years ago as a high school freshman.
I have started it a half dozen times in the past, and always put it down before.
This time, I made myself read far enough to get into it.
The density of the prose gave way to some stunningly beautiful passages.
The quirks of the individual characters and their backstories began to stand out.
I will admit that there are passages - often whole chapters - that I skimmed.
I look forward to reading it again - this time on a snowy day, as my sister recommended - and reading those passages more closely and discovering new details.
Winter's Tale sat on my shelves for about two years before I started it, taking up far more shelf space than any book has a right to unless it deals with subject matter like the wealth of nations or anatomy, but this book is huge because New York City is squeezed between the covers.It's a profound book, steeped in love and human emotion, and yet whimsical in a lot of ways.Hurrah for contradictory introductions to reviews!Winter's Tale initially flirts with introducing philosophy, like an adult trying to get across the moral of a fable to a child, when the child is only interested in the story.
It lures you into thinking more deeply about what you are reading.The characters also begin as simple, straight-up-and-down folk, as you might find strolling through fairy tales or myths and legends, but gather layers of complexity and depth around themselves as time passes.
"There was a white horse, on a quiet winter morning when snow covered the streets gently and was not deep and the sky was swept with vibrant stars, except in the east, where dawn was beginning in a light blue flood."Every once in a while a book comes along that absolutely changes your life.
If you were to ask me how I felt about truth, love, beauty, and justice I would tell you to read Winter's Tale.
They come to those who have exhausted themselves completely in a struggle to accomplish the impossible."Do not read this book if you can't see the beauty in winter.
Și da, poate că sunt întrebări la care trebuie să răspundem cu inima.
Anyone who has an appreciation for language would fall in love with this book in the first ten pages.
Despite it's depth and commentary on the human drama, it is also the most beautiful love story ever written, hands down.Helprin takes us on a Journey through New York in a fantastic way.
This is not your typical love story, moreso then a painting of what the human imagination is capable of.There are pages in this book I would read over and over again and each time soak in a deeper piece of language and deeper understanding of writing.
Life is really too short to read this: I stopped at 32%, but I could feel a two-star rating coming.Helprin's writing is so flowery, so kitchy, so over the top, it's nearly hypnotic.
Every half-informative sentence sprouts a completely superfluous one:Rum, champagne, cakes, and roasts were everywhere.
Even the cats danced.This multitude of redundant sentences that do nothing, absolutely nothing, to further the plot, is there only to obscure its Alchemist-grade quality.
Also, I was really irritated by the fact that Helprin constructs a pretty pretty world with a vengeance, without bothering to present any of the rules that govern it, apart from the Inherent Nobility of the Human Spirit.
The movie focuses on the first 180 pages about Peter and Beverly's magical romance.
There are elements of the battle between good and evil, but the movie certainly can't include the entire book.
As Newsday Magazine says, "It is a gifted writer's love affair with the language."The almost 800 pages of reading is both taxing and magical.
The character of Peter Lake, who couldn't seem to die is unforgettable, as is Beverly, the woman who couldn't stop loving him even after her death.
Historical fiction.
Historical fantasy.
Utterly compelling."Peter Lake had beard Beverly say that the greater the stillness, the farther you could travel, until, in absolute immobility, you achieved absolute speed.
Excellent writing and a very promising beginning - quickly enough ruined (totally!) by a major disappointment: the educated girl finds a burglar in her home and... invites him to bed her?! I could not read more; it may happen in the real life, I admit (people are strange and often enough, quite insane and depraved, we already know that): but this is no valid reason to read about it.At least, not for me.
Helprin’s writing in Winter’s Tale reminded me that my criticisms of Daughter of Smoke & Bone are not necessarily about things that inevitably lead to flaws.
Also, like two characters in Daughter of Smoke & Bone, characters in Winter’s Tale fall in love at first sight but Helprin pulls it off.
In a way, Winter’s Tale is a precursor to some of David Mitchell’s work, except Helprin’s style remains consistent as the narrative traverses various characters and their interconnections through a century or so, mainly in New York City.
