https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/163977.Tortilla_Flat
I learned from this book that I continue to love Steinbeck.
I despise the idea that he (like hemmingway for that matter) is sometimes considered a "simple" writer.
A substantive story, containing meaning and moral, simply told IS great literature.
Simple construction - departing every so often to show off that yes, they know EXACTLY what they're describing - for the most part just recording the story as they would an event that really happened.
Besides, none of the characters would know the word, so why would you use it to describe them?
And Steinbeck seems to love the little side stories.
This early Steinbeck novel has the signature style that eventually made him one of the greatest writers of all time, but it never quite moved me like all his later works. I think the flaws have to do with he fact that the characters are unable to develop beyond caricature. We understand the “type” of people we’re dealing with, but we never really believe in them. Probably still a 4-Star book, but a bit of a disappointment when you put it up against all of Steinbeck’s other classics.
Put simply and in Steinbeck’s own words, Tortilla Flat is the story of “Danny and of Danny’s friends and of Danny’s house” – his inheritance.Danny and his assorted friends are ‘paisanos’ – countrymen of Spanish, Indian, Mexican and Caucasian mixed heritage.
In one sense, the stories of Danny and the paisanos feel almost mythological, somewhat biblical certainly and even Arthurian.
Modern and contemporary writers and critics have cited that Steinbeck’s portrayal of the paisanos and their way of life, is not an accurate one and does somewhat perpetuate stereotypes of Mexican Americans.
Some say Steinbeck was racist; some say he was just a product of his time.
But Steinbeck was certainly a product of his time.
Perhaps Steinbeck's characterization of these paisanos as layabout drunks had nothing to do with their race and everything to do with the time and area in which they lived.
Prohibition and the Great Depression made loafing lushes out of men of all races, colors, and creeds.
This is the impression I got from reading this book: not that the paisanos were lazy, drunk, amoral, and poor because they were Mexican, but because in 1935 they didn't have anything else to do.
I knew there would beautiful prose of course, but instead of portraying the usual tragedies small and large, Steinbeck wanted to relax and have fun - and he wanted the reader to do the same, much as his characters do.
The constant use of "Jew" as both verb and insult, of course - although hard to fault the author for what is coming out of his rather sweet but also rather dim characters' mouths.
(And hey, "Jew" is still used the same way today - albeit by ignoramuses who should know better, and anti-Semites.) The basic fact that we have a white author portraying various characters of mixed heritage as drunkards, thieves, and fools also bugged.
Tales of the tall variety about a silly gang of friends whose boy's club antics remind one at times of "The Three Stooges" or "Last of the Summer Wine" as they cast about in search of adventure and drink, spinning their own unbelievable yarns while getting drunk, and philosophizing with wild abandon - be damned the passing of the day!
I seem to recall something quite profound was said somewhere in there amongst the inane, convoluted logic and self-serving prattle...maybe it was the wine talking?Steinbeck dips back into the well of central-coast California, planting gypsy-esque Spaniard immigrants in a fictional town near Monterey called Tortilla Flat, a town and people so colorful he almost runs out of paint while doing their portraits.
A rollicking good time.John Steinbeck’s 1935 short novel about a Monterey group drunks and ne’er do wells fashioned like an Arthurian legend is fun, if a little dated.Steinbeck fans will note similarities with his later works Cannery Row and Sweet Thursday.
Spiritually the jugs maybe graduated thus: Just below the shoulder of the first bottle, serious and concentrated conversation.
Three inches more, thoughts of old and satisfactory loves.
An inch, thoughts of bitter loves.
Two fingers down, a song of death or longing.
A thumb, every other song each one knows.
Conscientious, hard-working, a man of simple pleasure (a pleasure that consists of him either showing affection for his dogs, or working towards winning the approval of his friends), the Pirate epitomizes how a humble, honest and largely pious life should be lived, which superbly juxtaposes the lifestyles of the other friends in the group (well, with the exception of Big Joe Portagee :o)) which are as far from pious as one could get.This is not to say that Danny and his friends never show good intentions at heart.
I never thought it could be possible to be completely captivated by an author on the strength of reading one book, but I can state without fear of contradiction that Mr. John Steinbeck, thanks to Tortilla Flat, has found a rare place in my heart.
He aimed to recreate the spirit of the adventures of the Knights of the Round Table in linked stories about Danny and his friends Pilon, Pablo, Jesus Maria, the Pirate and Big Joe Portagee.
Living together in a house inherited by Danny, the friends develop a strong moral code which governs their relationship with each other.
Although I appreciate Steinbeck’s achievement in recreating a version of the myth of the Knights of the Round Table and I love the characters and the writing, the work feels dated, which cannot be said of Steinbeck’s major novels.
Η αλληλεπίδραση του κακού και του καλού. Ο πόνος και ο ανθρωπισμός. Δυνατά συναισθήματα από ήρωες που λυπάσαι αλλά και σέβεσαι. Πολυ δυνατή η πένα του Steinbeck. Έργο βαθιά ανθρώπινο
When questioned concerning his race, he indignantly claims pure Spanish blood and rolls up his sleeve to show that the soft inside of his arm is nearly white.The main player is Danny, a paisano who enlists in the army and spends World War I breaking mules in Texas.
Upon his escape, Danny encounters his old friend, the logician Pilon, a wanderer who works a little, drinks a lot and sleeps against whichever tree he falls down next to.
Pilon offers to pay ten dollars a month in rent, a sum which Danny never expects to collect and Pilon never intends to pay.Pilon encounters his friend Pablo, a philosopher who sleeps under the wharf.
This novel could easily be a set of short stories, a morality tale (or immorality!), a retelling of the Arthurian legends or a retelling of the gospels with a very alternative last supper!Danny and his friends (all paisanos) spend their time looking for food, wine, shelter and women and this is pretty much all they need in life to be content.
Spiritually the jugs may be graduated thus: just below the shoulder of the first bottle, serious and concentrated conversation.
I know this isn't a substantial or important work but I loved it and its themes are universal.
Eigentlich eine Tragödie, die Erzählung von Danny und seinen Freunden,aber mit viel Ironie und Zynismus macht John Steinbeck daraus eine liebens- und lesenswerteGeschichte von den Bewohnern eines kleinen Hauses am Rande von Monterey, deren einzigeLebensaufgabe darin besteht, täglich etwas zu essen und ein paar Gallonen Wein zu besorgen.
Wine and women--but no commitments or responsibilities.The story is essentially this: a young man--a soldier--returns from World War I to learn that he has inherited two houses.
But right from the start, Danny is a magnet for like-minded men who love this free and easy lifestyle.
When Danny happens across some money--a rare event as you'll see if you pick this one up--he decides to buy a present for his girl, who in an equally rare state-of-mind has decided to be a one-man woman...temporarily at least.

This is a charming and humorous tale of the adventures of a group of erstwhile paisanos in California after World War I.
Their ability to turn every situation to fit their view, their generosity and ready sympathy for the downtrodden, and their quick forgiveness to those who have wronged them seemed to echo the defining principles of Quixote as he travelled about in his quest.Despite their complete disregard for the law or the rights of possessions of others, you cannot help but be charmed by this lovable group of loafers.
In this short novel, published in 1935, the author accomplished what he has consistently achieved, awakening emotion through lifelike characters.
Written during the depression, it is no wonder Steinbeck’s destitute but optimistic characters appealed to the masses.
Their appreciation of basic needs — with the occasional bottle of wine and a lusty woman thrown in — struck a chord with so many experiencing similar hardships.Though criticized for a demeaning portrayal of Mexican-Americans, Steinbeck's depiction of camaraderie and an Arthurian parallel defends such negative evaluation.
Embodying the simple disposition of Danny, the main character, and his vagabond disciples, Steinbeck's narrative is both powerful and moving.
Allegory for King Arthur and the knights of the Roundtable2.
Danny's good side represents Arthur, while his wild side represents Lancelot's later character.
3. For a while i thought Danny was a figure of christ becasue of his forgiving and sacrificial nature, but his later exploits dispeled this notion.
The big party for Danny = the last supper.
6. Danny, Pilon, and Jesus Maria all represent different characteristics of christ.
Danny= forgiveness, sacrificalPilon= Charisma (and his sly ability to "turn water into wine")Jesus Maria= humanitary aspectsThis is probably part of the King Arthur allegory but maybe not.
What are friends for if not to help them drink their wine. This being one of Steinbecks earliest works, it did not have the depth or power of his later novels, but still, I found myself laughing out loud throughout the story. So, whatever the weaknesses, if a book can keep me laughing that way it deserves at least 4 stars from me.
I did not realize it then, but the paisanos in Tortilla Flat were like the Knights of King Arthur in some ways.
I immediately tracked them down and it was resolved in a rather friendly way due to our parents being friends, although the betrayal continued all through highschool, in football, and beyond--harmless but unfriendly.It was about that time in my life that I realized that the best friend I would probably ever have outside of marriage and children would be a great book by a great author.
I always thought that these characters that Steinbeck created were so lovable, and so this has been one of my favorite books by him. I grew up seeing Steinbeck in my father's bookcase, and when I was a child I read and cried over his, "The Red Pony." My favorites are this book, Cannery Row, and Grapes of Wrath.
On the death of his grandfather, Danny inherits two houses and his friends move in with him and life takes on a pattern of camaraderie, easy-going adventures and above all the quest for wine.Clearly these low-rent Arthurian adventures are there to charm, and one would have to have a hard heart not to feel the charm bubbling from every sentence.
And much like the Runyon stories, they’re good people to see from a distance but one wouldn’t want to hang around them for too long.It was dead nice to revisit Monterey though.
When Danny inherits two houses in the shabby district of Tortilla Flat, he invites a hobo friend and fellow paisano (descendant of Spanish peasants) to live with him.
The pair are soon joined by workshy Jesus Maria, the mentally handicapped Pirate, and his pack of dogs.We follow their escapades, which entail endless wine drinking, fighting, forgiving, scheming, and interactions involving a bootlegger, several women of dubious repute, and various impoverished locals.Hapless yet noble characters populate this allegorical and didactic work that extols friendship and virtue over capitalism and materialism.This early Steinbeck novel (1935) closely parallels the fables about King Arthur.
Shared themes include friendship, oath, inheritance and kingdom.
Whilst Tortilla Flat is inferior to many of the author’s later efforts, this reader would not hesitate in recommending it to all Steinbeck aficionados.
This was a fun read.
I can see where some might be rubbed the wrong way by Tortilla Flat due to the political incorrectness of the time when it was written but most of the shenanigans come across to me as innocent and harmless and the main characters to me seem to be colored positively, as likable knuckleheads.
Oh, and one character, the Pirate, had a pack of five obedient, loyal, and lovable dogs named Enrique (houndish), Pajarito (brown and curly), Rudolph ("an American dog"), Fluff (a Pug), and Señor Alec Thompson (!) (an Airedale).
Like other Steinbeck that I've read, the words flow smoothly.
E' la prima volta che leggo Steinbeck, e di sicuro non ho iniziato dai titoloni; ho iniziato dall'esordio, dallo scrittore ancora acerbo, se mi devo fidare delle numerose recensioni.Questo romanzo breve è un turbinio di personaggi, uno più strambo dell'altro, che si arrabattano tutto il giorno per un gallone di vino, vivono alla giornata (o forse sarebbe più corretto dire che vivono un po' come viene), rubano, si azzuffano, poi si riappacificano.
Poi, una volta capito che il dunque non sarebbe arrivato, sono passata alla stessa filosofia buontempona di Danny e i suoi amici, e l'ho presa alla leggera.
The transitions are difficult for all involved, but the group of friends finds communal bliss for a time when they are all living under one roof, contributing to one another's goals and well-being.
The friends, at times, are not all that great to each other -- they do mean, selfish things in the name of money, wine, and love.
But then one realizes that most of us have done terrible things in our time in the name of money, wine, and love.
Pilon, Gesù Maria, il Pirata, Joe Portoghese il Grande, Pablo e il "ricco" Danny che li ospita nella sua casa ereditata sono un gruppo di beoni scansafatiche che ne escogitano una più del diavolo per riuscire a mettere le mani su un fiasco di vino.
Tra una sbronza e l'altra si adoperano però per cercare di fare del bene ai loro compaesani più sfortunati, con esiti spesso nulli ma con idee assolutamente geniali e Steinbeck è grandioso a descriverli, dando loro quel tocco di umanità che li rende ancora più memorabili.
Sono personaggi che si scolpiscono nella memoria per la loro unicità e simpatia.
one wonders if one could do away with ambition and computers and bookface and tivo and truly be happy living day to day, sleeping in a hollow log, stealing one's dinner from pumpkin patches and bean fields, trading a day's work for a jug of cheapo wine or a roll in the hay with a whore-with-a-heart-of-gold...
of course, had steinbeck truly lived the life of the paisanos in his novel, he never could've written it!
therein lies the argument for capitalism as the best of the worst, eh?this is one of those books, incidentally, in which characters tear through gallons of wine per drinking session.
You can pay your friend back the money you owe him or you could buy 3 gallons of wine.
Better yet, you could buy the wine and then share it with your friend, which is far better for both of you than just giving him the money.
There’s also a streak of anti-Semitism in the novel that occurs whenever various characters are deemed selfish or ungenerous and they are invariably referred to as a “Jew.”The book was published in 1934, so what appears to a modern reader as politically incorrect would hardly raise an eyebrow 83 years ago.
He and five paisanos live in the houses where they tell tall tales, drink wine, and chase women.
In the preface, Steinbeck compares the adventures of Danny and the paisanos to those of King Arthur and the knights of the Round Table.Each chapter of the book tells one humorous tale.
Steinbeck uses humor and tall tales in this book, as compared to realism as he describes the overwhelming desperation and heroic undertakings in The Grapes of Wrath.
