https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/79579.Did_I_Ever_Tell_You_How_Lucky_You_Are_
His work includes several of the most popular children's books of all time, selling over 600 million copies and being translated into more than 20 languages by the time of his death.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: بیست و نهم ژانویه سال 2008 میلادیعنوان: هیچوقت به ات گفته بودم چقدر خوشبختی؟؛ نویسنده: زئوس؛ مترجم: رضی هیرمندی؛ تهران، افق، کتابهای فندق، 1384؛ در 32 ص؛ شابک: 9643691853؛ چاپ دوم 1392؛ شابک: 9789643699062؛ موضوع: داستانهای کودکان از نویسندگان امریکایی - سده 20 متيودور سیوس گیزل، تصویرگر، و نویسنده ی مشهور امریکایی ست، که با نامهای: دکتر سیوس، دکتر زیوس؛ یا دکتر سوس، شناخته میشود.
Another Dr. Seuss's book.Fantasy with so much fun.Great.
Well, it turns out that it DOES measure up to Dr. Seuss’ other great works and I was quite pleased with the results of this book!The book starts off with a young boy meeting up with an old man in the middle of the Desert of Drize and the old man starts singing a song to the boy about how there are more people less fortunate than he is and how he is lucky to be himself.
If you must read this bookthen you're very luckyYou don't have to reada book twelve times more yucky.True, there are no zombiesor heroes heroicinstead there's philosophy(they tell me it's "stoic").So if you don't like itdon't stomp, yell, and cursejust try to remember -it could have been worse.
Full of imagination & creativity.. I guess reading this book, would also save grown ups from depression!
I was looking over my Dad's shoulder at that picture of a lonely, bent coat hanger suspended from a fraying piece of twine over a rocky gorge on a seemingly uninhabited world.
I felt  so bad  for that hanger, and I wanted to do whatever it took to avoid its fate.I turned out fine.Childhood existential crisis aside, this book carries a lot of great lessons and, as with all of Dr. Seuss's work, avoids being overly simplistic or cutesy.
The other day in a work meeting, I used the metaphor of the bees watch watchers to win an argument.
How many children's books can really remain that applicable to everyday life?
Some people are much more…Oh, ever so much more…Oh, muchly much-much more unlucky than you!" This is my favorite Dr. Suess book.
I have a slew of favorites, but I felt this one needed to be added.
This little paragraph from the book reminds me that...
well the obvious.Since I’m from the Netherlands I didn’t read them as a child, translation being impossible.
I read them to my son when he was young; I enjoyed them as much as he did.
You can read them at such a sing songy tone; they are pleasant, upbeat and have so many little life lessons.
I am generally I big fan of Dr. Seuss books, but this one fell flat for me.
I was hoping for a book that illustrated the many wonderful things we experience in every day life, instead it was a book about how horrible life could be.
Even that would have some value in helping kids to appreciate what they have, but because the horribleness takes place in silly, make believe places in silly, unrealistic ways it becomes difficult to bridge the text to real life.
Very beautiful message and hilarious concepts to get the message through.
Classic Dr. Seuss. One of his best.
The rhyming texts and unique characters remind each reader to focus on the good parts of life and never feel down about anything.
a.) A strength from this book comes from the wild characters and comedic language to present a valuable lesson for every reader and listener.
By using these creatives figures, students are able to grasp the importance of optimism and happiness.
In addition to focusing on the outrageous characters, Suess is able to bring a comedic performance to every page with the outlandish illustrations and hilarious texts.
Many different lessons and activities can help students understand the important message presented in this book by Dr. Seuss.
“When you think things are bad,when you feel sour and blue,when you start to get mad...you should do what I do!Just tell yourself, Duckie, you're really quite lucky!Some people are much more...oh, ever so much more...oh, muchly much-much moreunlucky than you!”  One of the greatest lesson this book teaches you is to always be grateful for who you are & where you are.
There are people who are worst in situations/conditions than you.
Never show anger or resentment about your life because it might be that your problem is much smaller as compared to some other person.
Always be thankful and consider yourself lucky!
This was a typical Dr. Seuss book that had bizarre characters and outrageous rhymes. I enjoyed the illustrations and seeing what crazy thing would be on the next page. It wasn't my favorite book of his though, but I'd still recommend.*Taken from my book reviews blog: http://reviewsatmse.blogspot.com/2010...
This was great, and I can see why I bought it a few years ago. It's a wonderful reminder that things could always be worse, and are for some people. Being grateful is something to remember to be, and who better to put that to words than Dr Seuss?
This is my absolute favorite Dr. Seuss book. I love the clever rhymes, the funny stories, and the drawings. It is the best of his books and I'm surprised it doesn't get more recognition. I'd recommend this book wholeheartedly to everyone and anyone. =D
Read this to my friend over Skype. Growing up these books were just not his type.It makes me so sad... a childhood without Seuss must have been bad.
This book was awesome!!! I loved it! Let me just say- I'm so glad I am none of the people in this book XP Haha. Great book(:
A little disappointed in this offering of this Dr. Seuss book.
Great story that really makes you want to think about all that you have and appreciate your lot in life. Our girls really enjoyed this book.
It's Dr. Seuss...what more could you ask?My son and I read this over and over and over.
Really really liked it, but not as much as Oh, the Places You'll Go! !!
Not his best work lol.That being said, his best work is so awesome that this, his "meh" work, is still good enough for 3 stars. The cover and title alone are the best part.
Every politician and well off person in this country needs this book slap upside their heads a couple times and forced to read it over and over again until they figure out it's not all about them and what they have is something to be extremely grateful for.
Even me, who makes just over what is considered the poverty line or maybe I'm just at it, am humble enough to know that my life could be worse and I am grateful for everything I have.
Of all of the Dr. Suess books I read as a child, this is one that I still remember.
No matter how badly your day is going, or how unlucky you think that you are, there is always someone "oh, mutely much-much more unlucky than you." I enjoy that Dr. Suess books can be such fun reads for kids, as well as have this much deeper meaning.
Although, I understand it much more now than I did as a child.
As all Dr. Suess books do, this book's illustrations are so fun and colorful for kids.
By far one of my favorite books! This book truly teaches children the importance of appreciating everything in their life that they have because things could be so much more worse! This book is a great example to show children that they need to be thankful for everything in their life. I love reading this book, even as an adult. The illustrations aren't as bright, and colorful as I would expect, however, the overall life lesson is what's most important.
This book is a rather obvious attempt to cheer you up by showing people, creatures or even things (a lost sock, a forgotten coat hanger), who are much worse off. Several of the situations are quite hilarious, but essentially this is one long summary, with no detectable arc. This hampers the book, as does the rather strict message that you ought not be unhappy when not as unlucky as these people and creatures.
Dr Seuss never fails in his artistic way of blending comedy with moral lessons. The tongue-twisters in this book is classic. Read this with my Y2 children for a PSHCE lesson and they loved it. It was fun yet made the children reflect on how fortunate they are. We followed it up with making thank you cards for people we are grateful for. Indeed, we all need to take time to reflect on how lucky we are.
In my most recent lap through the Seuss with my youngest, I read for the first time "Did I Ever Tell You How Lucky You Are?”. It is terrible! There is a cynicism and extremeness, an ugliness, to the story. I do wonder if this terrible story published in 1973 doesn’t have some responsibility for the beautiful "All the Places You'll Go”. Writing is rewriting.
Another classic by Dr. Seuss. I really love this book because it helps expand the readers imagination and helps them think about a different world and their own world and how lucky they are to be where they are. Again his rhyming in amazing and illustrations are always good. This book is fantasy and 1st-2nd grade range
The life lesson taught in this book is something that I think we could all use a little reminder about; it could always be worse, so be thankful for how good you have it. I would read this book to students of any age, but it is most appropriate for grades 3-4. That being said, I think that the story is better understood when read aloud.
