https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/103111.X_Men
Epic moment in The X-Men’s history! This TPB edition collects the issues #129-137 of “Uncanny X-Men”.Creative Team:Writer & Co-Plotter: Chris ClaremontIllustrator & Co-Plotter: John Byrne NEW FRIENDS & OLD ALLIES During this saga, Dark Phoenix, the X-Men meet new friends along with the return of old allies.It’s during this saga that we watch the introduction of Kitty Pryde (aka Shadowcat) which became one of the most popular characters in the X-Men along with proud member of Excalib
Kitty has been playing a pivotal role in the X-Men in several of their most epic sagas like Days of Future Past, making her one of the biggest contributions of Claremont/Byrne team to the title.Also, Alison Blaire (aka Dazzler) showing her very “disco” first appearance, that later she would become full member of the X-Men and even a SHIELD agent.And old allies due different situations return to help the team: Angel & Beast, founding members of the X-Men. Too bad that they didn’t figured it out a way to include Iceman to have all the five first members in the story.
i mean, i know this is a collection of several comic books strung together to make one big fat story,and in order to refresh readers' minds as to what happened a month ago or whatever, it is sometimes necessary to throw in little callbacks to previous escapades, but boy does it end up reading awkwardly: "this is my name.
in order to facilitate this thing that we need to do..." and on and on and on...i expected a little more from the man who co-authored (with george lucas) the continuing adventures of willow ufgood.i don't read a lot of superhero comics.
This was a pretty major story arc for the X-Men. You know, Jean Grey...Krrrrk *slashes finger across throat*.Gripping is another word I've seen describing it.
And yet, somehow that does nothing to make the cheesetastic dialogue and horrible art any easier to slog through.
In fact, once I resigned myself to things like the bad guys being referred to as goons, and Cyclops and Jean spewing out lines that would make even die-hard fans of romance novels cringe, it was a pretty good read!
This particular story is such a huge part of the X-Men lore, that I would recommend any comic book fan read it at least once.
This is, by far, one of the greatest storylines of Marvel. The Phoenix saga has always held a special place in my heart -all my favorite characters take part of it and the tension! Gosh, simply amazing.Not only the story has aged beautifully but it also managed to have the same effect as it did back in the 80’s.
They’ve hidden themselves rather cleverly in their crime, so when the X-men attempt to bring down such a syndicate, it makes them look like the bad guys for a change.
And when that’s paired with The Phoenix, who has just been released from the shackles of Jean grey, it makes for a rather intense, and fiery, plot.
It took me a while to get used to it, but eventually it did begin to flow like the story itself.
The Wolverine in here is much different to the movie version, which was good because it meant that the X-men actually felt like a team rather than a one man army.
They would only later find out that this observation is just a symptom of Jean's inevitable downward spiral.The Dark Phoenix arc also served as the introduction of the infamous and exclusive inner circle of the Hellfire Club led by Sebastian Shaw, and two iconic characters: Kitty Pryde, future Shawdowcat and one of the most memorable X-Men members; and Emma Frost, a formidable villain of telepathy who is also dubbed as the White Queen.
Good reading for diehard Marvel and X-Men fans, but lukewarm for everyone else.
While I like Bronze Age DC, I don't think I care for Bronze Age X-Men or Claremont's writing.
The basic early plot involves Jason Wyngard/Mastermind, who begins to telepathically seduce and control Jean Grey/Dark Phoenix with a weird 18th century mind fantasy.
After the X-Men battle Dark Phoenix the first time (yes, they do it again), Cyclops literally proposes to Jean Grey.
It's basically Jean Grey versus the X-Men in some intergalactic in-fighting.
UNPOPULAR OPINION TIME: Fuck all y'all haters, I actually like Dazzler.
People are always like, "Haha Dazzler has the power of disco!
LET ME PUT ON A FANTASTIC LIGHT SHOW JUST FOR YOU, BRO." Power outage?
Why do you never see people giving Cyclops shit?), WHICH MEANS IT'S ALL FUN AND GAMES UNTIL SHE BLINDS YOUR ASS OR TURNS YOUR BRAIN IN JELLY VIA SONIC BLASTS.
That motherfucker definitely has the most useless mutation ever but everybody has to rag on Dazzler cause she likes disco.
Depending on your age, your Mom probably liked disco too, pal.
And it has Jean Grey - Phoenix - Dark Phoenix.
What I do know is that John Byrne's art spoke to me like no other's.
Byrne was a Calgarian (my home town) and he gave birth both to Canada's greatest hero -- Wolvie -- and our greatest superteam -- Alpha Flight -- but he also pencilled some of the greatest sequences in comic history -- and the Dark Phoenix saga was the best of them all.I hated the ending (and all its humanist drivel), but the rest of the story was unparalleled.
The Dark Phoenix Saga is one of the best stories ever told.
Hands down one of the best Marvel comic stories I've ever read. The way Claremont brings out each character and piece them together as a team is commendable.
Flashback: To be honest, I actually first heard of the famous “The Dark Phoenix Saga” through an episode of the 90s “X-Men” cartoon series and that was probably my favorite episode of the entire series! Now, I had the opportunity to read this story in its original comic form and I was totally blown away! Chris Claremont had a huge reputation of being the best “X-Men” writer in history and after reading this saga, I am starting to believe that and John Byrne's illustrations clearly define the tr
Chris Claremont had a huge reputation of being the best “X-Men” writer in history and after reading this saga, I am starting to believe that and John Byrne's illustrations clearly define the true art of this exciting saga that defined “X-Men” history!
I also loved how Chris Claremont gives the audience enough information regarding the last few issues to help us understand the story much better and I will admit that the first time I have read this comic; I was a bit frustrated with all the words on one page.
So I just read and reviewed another Jean Grey comic so decided now would be a good time to review this since I haven’t.What’s it about?So the main thing in this book is Jean Grey is super powerful and going a bit crazy.
There are times where it seemed like set-up for Wolverine doing something bad-ass but probably gory, so many readers are like “oh boy, about to get some bloody Wolverine action” and then it cuts off to something else going on (sigh).The story with the aliens towards the end is cheesy and (view spoiler)[ an excuse to have Jean die in the dramatic ending.
3.5 StarsI'm just going to pretend the last chapter of this nine issue arc didn't happen.
The Dark Phoenix Saga is the first major event of X-men in 80's.
The events that leading to emergence of dark phoenix is solidly written.
First thing she does after going to space as dark phoenix is to travel all the way to another galaxy, devour a star and come back to Earth.
I hope they got paid for fighting as well as for delivering entertaining commentary.Overall, except for the final issue, this is a solid X-men story!----------------------------------------------------*Cue Star Wars music*

"This is what makes humanity virtually unique in the cosmos, my friend; this extraordinary capacity for self-sacrifice, this ability to triumph over seemingly insurmountable obstacles if the cause be just, knowing all the while that to do so means certain death." This is probably, storywise, the best volume I've read in the Marvel universe. Jean Grey has always been my favourite Marvel character, from the moment I first saw her, and this is the one stage that defines her character the most and
Better late than never, as they say.A minor rant about the movies coming up:(view spoiler)[I always hated the fact that they used Jean's abilities to the topmost.
In the movies they fused Jean with Phoenix from the very start without any preamble and I hated it that because Phoenix is a separate entity and that way you basically omit an important character from the comic books.
I know it is very difficult to include an entity in the franchise, but hell, don't do it at all.Spoiler for Apocalypse coming right up: (view spoiler)[Why not let Jean be Marvel Girl, but turn her into Phoenix?
Instead, I fell in love with the story, and with Jean Grey, and with the X-Men, and with pretty much everything else about it.
This story was definitely *not* written for the trade (as so many of today's books seem to be), and you can tell because each single issue begins with a rundown of what happened last time.
I enjoy borderline ridiculous amounts of exposition, though, so this was perfect for me.Another thing I enjoyed about this book was how well the character of Jean Grey was written.
I remember reading this in my Ann Arbor comic book store over a decade ago and being so impressed with how well it held up (and I think I was reading it without color!).
While it does bear some of the ostensibly negative trademarks of classic comics like frequent recaps of events in the last issue and characters saying/thinking exactly what they're doing/feeling, this actually makes it far more accessible; you can pick this book up with zero knowledge of the X-Men and appreciate its storytelling.
Jean Grey's struggle with the Phoenix entity is a classic conflict of good vs.
The penultimate X-Men story. The artwork was definitely a sign of the times in which it was written. It also makes me extremely happy that comic book writers have gotten away from using thought-balloons and text boxes explaining the story.
The most gripping event in X-men history and some say Marvel's finest moment, when comic book storytelling finally grew up. This is science fiction at its realest and in its purest form, a cautionary tale of how absolute power corrupts absolutely. When love and honor get in the way of lust and greed, the effects are nothing short of earth shattering. Want to know how to make sense of violence? To reconcile life and death? Take a look at The Dark Phoenix Saga and prepare to be transported. This is Claremont and Byrne at their superhuman best.
That the story is engaging enough to keep me reading is actually pretty impressive, as otherwise I would be blinking and picking apart the specifics of his overwrought style:--He keeps referring to Wolverine as "the short Canadian" or "the hairy Canadian;" wouldn't Wolverine fillet anyone who called him that?--When the X-Men make mistakes in battle, why do they pause the fight so Cyclops can chew them out?
He asks plaintive questions about the nature of being human, and some dude in a cape answers "Jean Grey could have become a god, but it was more important to her that she die...a HUMAN." No. I want Storm's reaction.
I know Chris Claremont is a visionary writer, and that the writer-artist tag team he had with John Byrne produced some of the most talked-about-to-this-day graphic literature ever consumed by mortals.With all that in mind, I was not a fan of Dark Phoenix.
An amount of leeway needs to be given for the context of older graphic novels, especially for ones that set in motion the tropes and story ideas we take for granted today (i.e. Jean Grey's whole Phoenix thing, something the book introduces prominently).
It also seemed at the time like they killed her off in a telepathic duel with Jean/Phoenix.Pretty wild to know that Emma and Kitty will be huge members of various X-teams for the next 30 years, and that Jean's spirit/Phoenix will be haunting and reappearing for this whole time as well.It's also cool to see 80% of the original X-Men here: Cyclops and Jean (Marvel Girl), were already there, and then Angel shows up, giving the team use of his Arizona home, and later, Beast, as an Avenger, investigating after the Hellfire Club events.
I'm not entirely sure why they inserted those issues here but I guess because it explains the start of Jean slipping back in time to the 1800's.
The most moving arc here is Scott's struggle to accept that they maybe can't save Jean.
Especially Storm because they briefly explain how Jean was like a sister to her and she didn't want to be there.
Everyone struggling to decide if they wanted to fight to save her life was interesting.
Jean is an iconic character so I expected a little more from it.
So Chris Claremont has written all of the X-Men biggies, in terms of stories; Days of Future Past, Apocalypse(I think) and this one!
However I did not hate them in this one, I did not love them, or really care but I did not hate them; which is good because this story mostly focuses on Scott and Jean; so props for not making me wanna punch Cyclops!
So the story, well I don't wanna spoil, but the long run is Jean goes bat shit crazy and the X-men have to stop her!
The story overall is okay, but It did enthral me for the most part!
The "date read" above is actually my sixth reading of this book.
The Dark Phoenix Saga is certainly the most gripping story arc within a major comic continuity.
This is pure pulp comic book superhero stuff, but it's never been done better.
Particularly astounding are two of the major action set-pieces in the story: Wolverine's rescue of his teammates, and the final confrontation with the Shi'ar Imperial Guard on the Blue Area of the moon.
The term "page-turner" was created for stuff like this.
The Dark Phoenix Saga is mindless, entertaining, absorbing storytelling at its absolute finest.
I reaaaally wanted to like this more, i love Jean Grey and the X-Men are probably my favorite heroes.It had really great moments but overall it felt kind of underwhelming and rushed, plus, all that exposition, please stop.I'm giving it a strong 3.5
Fine story but it has to be extra special for me to get past the old school art. Not so much.
"Wolverine Alone" was the first one I read and, even though it is in the middle of the story, I was completely hooked.Yesterday morning, I couldn't sleep, so I dove in and read the whole thing for the first time.
It is quite good, and the art is fantastic, but there are a few things that keep it, in my eyes, from being a masterpiece.
Few have bettered Byrne for tights books, and the proof is here.This is one of the most lauded stories in comics, and for good reason.
As I said, it could've been better, but I expected it to be a lot worse.The black and white morality was a much bigger problem.
Since the original comic books were very short, and they only came out once a month, it would've been very boring for readers if the X-Men were fighting the same villain for a year.
There was some good suspense, sure, particularly towards the end, but only a little.The rushed pace harmed the character development.
He clearly has a lot more in mind than the glimpses we get to see in the comic book, which is why it's unfortunate he doesn't manage to integrate more slow-burning character development into the fast pace.
This is still a classic. Claremont does state the obvious a lot in his dialogue but this was pretty standard for the time period. The content is still WAY above most other popular comics out then. Fantastic art.
