https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/164552.Selected_Poems
It's Pasternak. That says it all.
I am reminded, while reading this, of Ann Pasternak Slater's comments on Pevear and Volokhonsky's translations of her uncle's poems that accompany Doctor Zhivago:"There are many bad translations of Pasternak's poems," she said, and described those as "no worse than the rest." Similar words that could be used just as easily to describe this mid-century — containing nothing later than 1938's The Second Birth — collection of verse, translated by J.
M. Cohen.The resultant translations are, by the translator's admission, attempts at literal renditions of the original Russian.
These versions' imagery feels uninspired and grey, the rhythms dead; a crib sheet to determine the meaning, but with no clues to point the reader towards the appeals of the original.As Slater would say: "Not inaccurate, and lacking everything."
Stallworthy and France do a rhymed/metered translation here.
When I put them side by side with the non-rhymed/metered Rudman translations and the also non-rhymed/metered translations of the Dr Zhivago poems in my edition of that novel, what they seemed to lose in meaning was much greater than what they gained in rhyme and rhythm.
Still, I was really glad to get to read poems here that aren't contained in those other volumes, though Pasternak fell off a bit after My Sister-Life (though came back a bit at the end).
I picked up Pasternak because of Regina Spektor. He writes beautifully and I'd recommend his poetry to anyone who likes poetry. I continue to search his work (as I do for all poets) for evidence of a great love.
Remains one of those books that begs to be read again. The first time I read it was nearly 20 years ago, as a fresh graduate from university with little knowledge of Russian literature. These poems rarely feel like translations. The introduction gives an exceptional account of Paternak's dramatic life, making clear connections with his major works.
He is probably even more incredible in Russian
My introduction to Boris Pasternak came when I read "The Adolescence of Zhenya Luvers" in an anthology of Russian novellas.
Then, roaming the stacks in the Chapel Hill Public Library, I came across "Selected Poems."The forward by his son Yevgeny Pasternak invites the English reader to love Boris Pasternak through the work of translators Jon Stallworthy and Peter France.
Reading their English renditions of his brilliant poetry has me now thirsting for more of Pasternak.
The impulse behind Pasternak's poetry often seemed to me to be an inversion of that of his contemporary and pen-pall Marina Tsvetaeva.
Whereas for Tsvetaeva art was a negation, or a replacement of subjective reality, for Pasternak art was that which preserves subjectivity and makes emotion into something lasting.
In terms of his subject matter, Pasternak seemed more directly indebted to Alexander Blok than the other celebrated poets of his generation, although they all fed off of Blok to some degree or another.
Beautiful poetry spanning a long life that began in beauty and ended in tragedy.
and this too i gave away, flushed with attention
could not get into this at all. but i blame the translation, not pasternak
I had trouble getting into these. Might be a translation thing, which I've had happen with other Russian poets.
