https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/177001.Dragonflight_Dragonquest
Just to set the record straight I have reread Anne McCaffrey's dragon books many many times. I loved them as a teenager and love them as an adult. My daughter has even read many of these books as well. If I would have never read these books I would have never known about dragons. McCaffrey's book have set the way I compare all other dragon books I have read. They may be good, but don't come close to the world of Pern.
In Dragonquest, Anne MacCaffrey brings readers in to a wonderful, exciting, and fun-to-imagine world of men and dragons.
It's a classic fantasy published in 1978, and it's one of the first dragon rider novels ever.With a good mix of action, politics, and romance, Dragonquest is easily a page turner.
The constant threat gives their world a sense of danger, unity, and responsibility.While this book is fantastically written, readers should be warned of its some what extreme vocabulary.
Atypical to fantasy novels, high schoolers and middle schoolers may run in to many words they don't know.
While great, it's still just a fantasy novel.
I enjoyed this book, the fantastic original story, and the world it took place in a lot.
Except for Lessa, the protagonist, everyone's names ate littered with awkward apostrophes and too many syllables for the tongue to trip over.
Also, (and perhaps this was just the compiled version I read) there weren't any natural breaking points except for the title page between books; No chapters, little to no separation of paragraphs, nothing.
But then again, books should come with cloth bookmarks by default.
Right?) Sorry that this became a rant on everything but the book itself, but hopefully I made my point clear.
The first book in this set is great! It's the entry to this series and is interesting and exciting. The second book is a huge "pass."Dragonquest reads like a book of interconnected short stories with no clear transition between stories. This wouldn't normally be a problem but it's incredibly boring in parts, not offset by the few exciting or interesting stories. There's no clear main character, though there are important ones. We seem to be looking through a thick pane of old glass at those characters, the details there to make out but only if you find the right angle.
I would day dream about dragons in highschool because of this series. I wanted nothing more than to link with one the dragons and fly away from it all for a while.
It's an excellent read. Anne McCaffrey is one of the best fantasy writers. I would recommend reading all her books.
Enjoyable
The Dragonriders of Pern books 1-3 is a great introduction to the series.
These Dragonriders live on this planet called Pern with Dragons.
Dragonriders impress Dragons at hatching and create a mental bond.
The Dragonriders job is to protect their planet from Thread.
Thread is a black silvery thing that falls presumably from the Red Star and sears everything it touches.
Dragons eat firestone which turns into gas that they use to sear thread.
The story faces many problems and twists and turns.
I believe it is a great book for those who can follow along with a few complicated words and phrases.
After reading Tolkien's, "The Lord of the Rings," series, I felt that no other fantasy world could be as well-written as his but remain unique. In other words, most other fantasy creations are bad imitations of Tolkien's work.Until Anne McCaffrey wrote "The Dragon Riders of Pern" series. Hers is truly unique. There are no imitations that come close to what she wrote and if anything, McCaffrey and Tolkien stand close together in the world of fantasy writings with a slight edge to Tolkien, perhaps.--Wag--
Once you pick up this book and open the cover, you will immediately be transported to the amazingly realistic world of Pern. The best way to enjoy the series though, is to get the prequel to the series. This book explains all the background into how the dragons and riders came into being and their roles .... I won't say more for fear of spoilers! just go out and get the WHOLE SET and be ready to fly on the wings of dragons.
Cannot say enough about the Pern series. I first read them when I was a teenager. My brother gave them to me and I fell in love with fantasy. In particular I love the range and diversity of characters. Each character is well developed and easy to get attached to. The world inspires the imagination and for me set me on the path of creating my own worlds and loving dragons. Anne McCaffrey is easily my greatest influence and the standard by which I judge all other books.
I love the universe Anne McCaffrey created and I love that she wrote a billion books about Pern. Anyone who loves sci fi or fantasy should read this series. I won't lie, some of the points were a bit... skippy-over-ish... for me in terms of her writing style but it's still a solid piece of writing.
AND, White Dragon! It was "Dragonriders of Pern" edition. Science fiction, that is not overly technical, gory or romantic. It was a bit overwhelming keeping up with the numerous characters, occupations, their dragons/holds, etc. However, I loved getting to know Pern, the main characters, and the plot was believable and evolved well. I anticipate reading more books in the series!
I love this book! This is the first science fiction book I truly got into, so good I have read it a second time. This story is a great escape; you feel like you are riding along with the dragons and living on Pern!! And the dragons themselves are lovable! You will remember this story long after you've finished reading it!
Have not read this book in forever, barely remember any of the details. That being said, I remember it being very good. If you're into dragons, you should read it at one point or another. That being said, after a second read-through years ago, I found myself not as captivated as I was the first time around. Furthermore, the rest of the series I read seemed to fall flat after this one.
Added 4/10/13Mentioned by Jim of KY.*Features mental telepathy.* SEE GR DISCUSSION: http://www.goodreads.com/topic/show/1... - MESSAGE #3765
Oh it could have been so much more - the dragons were lovely, but the names with so many ' in them that I got fed up gargling with the names, and I got bored - where were the threads!?!Won't be reading anymore.
For some reason, I thought this was a children's series that would change in style as the characters/author aged. Obviously, it is not that and I was pleasantly surprised at how much I enjoyed the book. The pace is just right and it doesn't lose itself it unnecessary descriptions.
This is one of my favorite series, and one of two series that I keep a hard copy of on my bookshelves vs. on my Kindle. F'Lar and F'Nor are wonderful, brave men, and the Oldtimers cause them plenty of trouble.
I loved the Dragonriders of Pern books as a teenager until they pulled a move which is similar in my mind to the Highlander movie franchise: The series moved from good fantasy to really shitty sci-fi.
I would not recommend this book! I love books with dragons, but the author did not do a very good job with it. The concept was intriguing, but the characters were under-developed, the plot under-explained and the point vague.
It's a long time since I read these but I loved them at the time. The story of an ordinary girl who discovers she has an extraordinary destiny, is much used but always enjoyable in the right hands. Great fun.
read the large compiled book. thought it was going to be a hard read, as it was in hardback and approximately 2 1/2 inches thick. boy was I wrong. went back after the rest after that since I was hooked. awesome reading.
I really liked it. I read some opinions about Drangons of Pern being chauvinist. Well, that may be, but if you want to reflect real middle age social behaivor, I think it ought to be that way, isn't it?Any way, good book from my personal point of view.
Read this years ago and it was great. If you haven't read this series, please do. You won't be disappointed.
Okay, read this a long time ago. Mildly amusing.
Excellent book, very well written. I thought the story line flowed very well.
Lessa and F'Lar will keep you reading, excited about the magical flying mounts that keep Pern Thread free.
I had Ramoth & Ruth tattoos what does that say!!! I read every one of the P.E.R.N. novels and love them all!! I love how each trilogy's stories are woven together. Great read for young and old!
thoroughly enjoyed this book!
