https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1807014.The_Saint_Meets_the_Tiger
There's plenty of witty dialogue (a feature of all The Saint stories) though there is perhaps a little too much of it at times.It's nice to see the first appearance of characters like Patricia Holm, Orace & even Templar's trusty knife Anna before they became regulars in the early novels.Charteris was still finding his way as an author, but the building blocks of his future Saint novels can all be found here.
A little editing would have helped to tighten up the story, but it's wonderful to read Simon Templar's earliest adventure at last.
From this first entry, it seems clear that Charteris wasn't planning to give the Saint his own series; the novel is a self-contained story that does not set up for a sequel, strongly implying (without giving anything away) that Simon Templar is going to retire and settle down with the girl of his dreams after this last adventure.
Even though he is well established as a career adventurer, the Saint in this book is younger and cleaner than his future self, even to the point of playing nice with the law (unfortunately Claud Eustace Teal missed this stage in Simon's life; Templar's favorite foil, whom Charteris introduced a year later in Daredevil, would not meet the Saint for a few more years).
In the foreword to the reissue of this first Saint novel, Charteris himself admits that it is startlingly bad, in the so-bad-it's-good sense.
Simon Templar chatters away to himself in Wimsey's best silly-ass way, and of course Our Hero is indestructible, infallible, and incredible.
The story is told in grammatically correct English, which helps--barring the transliterated "Cockney" spoutings of 'Orace, which could become annoying if he were not fortunately a rather quiet sort of bloke.Charteris (an interesting character in his own right) wrote Saint novels and stories until about 1968, by which time it had become a "franchise" with TV series, films etc and was taken over by other authors.
And I loved it!It's not a "whodunit", the 'who' is known - The Tiger.
The question is "whoisit", who is the Tiger?
It's Charteris' third novel and his writing has improved so much since X Esquire, there are some genuinely gripping scenes in this book, the discription of the Saint's tumble into an old well is utterly breathtaking.
But I loved it.We are introduced to a 27 year old Simon Templer, who already has made his mark in the world, Orace his dependable and faithful butler/batman and the love of Simon's life Patricia Holm.
It's Patricia Holm who really shines in this novel in a way that she doesn't necessarily do in the later books.
ENGLISH: A simple plot, described in a somewhat naive way. I had no problem to deduce the identity of the Tiger. Interesting, I did not know that the protagonist was called The Saint because of his initials: Simon Templar (ST).ESPAÑOL: Trama bastante sencilla, enfocada de manera algo ingenua. No me costó mucho trabajo deducir la identidad del Tigre. Es curioso, no sabía que al protagonista le llamaban El Santo por sus iniciales (Simon Templar) que en inglés significan Santo (ST).
Originally published on my blog here in May 2003.Before changing publishers to Hodder and Stoughton, a move which coincided with his writing career suddenly taking off, Leslie Charteris wrote about half a dozen thrillers for Ward, Lock & Co. Meet the Tiger is one of these, and is a Saint book, written three or four years before the novel which Hodder designated as the first in that long series, Enter the Saint.
The situation is complicated by his first meeting with Patricia Holm, destined to be a part of many of the novels which eventually followed.The most interesting question any Saint fan has about Meet the Tiger is how the series characters in their earliest manifestation match up with their later versions.
Charteris sometimes pretended he did not write this, his first book about Simon Templer, also called The Saint.
She becomes a regular character for the next several years, and the book in other ways also sets up what Charteris will develop, or sometimes ignore and remake.
There are also some wonderful and vivid passages of the pulpy, almost BLACK MASK like writing that would distinguish books such as the much superior THE SAINT IN NEW YORK.
If you are interested in how Charteris created The Saint, the book is rewarding for that and the best passages in it.
Review of the Saint series: IF you are a fan of old-fashioned British mysteries AND comedies, The Saint is for you.
I couldn't put my finger on why I liked it so much it until I heard a reviewer say that the author Leslie Charteris most resembled was P.G. Wodehouse!
(Some of them are likely to have been written at least in part by someone else.) By the time World War II broke out, the anti-Nazi theme gets a little stale.
One caveat: he does have some problems with pronunciation and accents once The Saint moves to the U.S. I laughed out loud when I heard about "coe-yotes" on the "mee-sa" -- long o, long e.
I thought I'd like this book then I thought I hated it turn I thought it wasn't too bad thorn I hated it again. What I realized is that I hate the character of Simon Templar and I hate his manservant Orace and I hate the fop Algy but the rest of the characters I like. And when Templar disappears for a few chapters it's the best thing for the book as a whole. Not auspicious for me to continue the series.
Some of the characters (Algy, for instance, or Aunt Agatha) are so skillfully drawn that you feel you’d recognise them if they walked into your local pub.Other characters that recur later include Simon’s faithful manservant Orace, and — briefly, in Knight Templar — Detective Inspector Carn.From what I can make out, “Meet The Tiger” is very difficult to get hold of; but if you want to read the Saint books it’s worth making the effort.
Il sait aussi que le Tigre utilise des mines d'or pour écouler le butin.Bien sur le Saint n'est pas un espion, quand il arrive sur place il le fait savoir à tout le monde, se faisant prendre pour un fou en disant qu'il est la parce qu'un dangereux bandit y réside.Va s'ensuivre une chasse à l'homme et a l'indice pour le Saint, car il doit d'un coté éviter de sa faire tuer par les hommes du Saint, et découvrir ou celui ci se cache, ainsi que le butin qu'il compte bien sur récupérer ...Il m'a fallu un temps d'adaptation pour réussir à me plonger dans ce livre.
This is the definitive 'ripping yarn. ' I'm looking forward to getting stuck into the next Saint book.
The version I read was called “Meet—The Tiger!” which I like better. The saint is more Raffles than Hercule Poirot with the focus more on derring-do and witticisms than mystery. The central mystery —Who is the ‘Tiger’?—feels underdeveloped as you only barely get to meet the cast of characters. The book gets better as it goes on and The Saint and his female partner Patricia are fun characters. It’s especially refreshing to read a female character 1929 who is written as an equal to her male counterpart.

I read this when I was twelve or thirteen, back in the early 1980's. It still reminds me of the pilot movies for TV shows. The pilot movies were often different then the actual series. This is one of those types of books where the author seemed unsure of how successful the character would be after the first entry. I still think it was a great introduction to the character.
A terrible book but also very entertaining.
When I decided I wanted to read some of the original Saint stories by Leslie Charteris, I figured I'd start with the first.
The edition that I have contains an introduction written by Charteris, and he somewhat disavows the story, stating that it was only his third novel, and he had not planned for it to be the first in a series.
Some readers might be put off by the 1920s English style that the book is written in, and maybe even more by the heavy cockney dialect spoken by one of the characters, but it kept me interested, and kept me guessing until the end.
"The Saint Meets The Tiger" introduces Simon Templar.
ST, his initials is what gets him the popular name of Saint.
He bursts into the story with his cocky ability to laugh at the most dangerous challenges that lie before him.
However, this one has the adequate amount of adventure, melodrama, cocky dialogues and a wicked romance.
Though there is not much of a moral code in this introduction to the series, it's fun to see how the story unfolds into setting up a new and exciting journey with the Saint and his loyalists.In 2016, it still is a series worth exploring and the series a journey worth undertaking.
Sherlock Holmes minus the brains (which leaves the attitude) meets James Bond.
Sometimes Mr. Leslie sounds like Enid Blyton- chirpy, high pitched and very annoying.
And sometimes the way he writes is extremely entertaining.
His allegories and style at times are off the hook.
Regarding the protagonist, his 'luck' constantly getting him out of tough situations after he recklessly barges into them gets really irritating after a while (which is also the single bone of contention I have with the Delightful Tinting comics).
But the rural English setting was a good idea and the whole book has a very film noir feeling to it.
The very first Saint novel.
Age wise it stands up remarkably well.
An interesting glimpse into the origin of the character.
The Saint here is different from the Saint of the later books, but still undeniably Simon Templer.
The Story flows quite nicely and its a quick read.
Definitely interesting for Saint fans, perhaps not so much for others.
Possibly a little bit to bear if you only know the character from either the Early films (before he became The Falcon), or the Vincent Price radio show, or the Roger Moore (and Ian Oglvy) TV Series, but still deep down, undeniably The Saint.
The first book in the Saint series later immortalized on TV by Roger Moore.
This is straight up pulp fiction.
Simon Templar has taken up residence in a quaint English seaside town.
On the surface things are quiet and laid back.
But underneath it all, there is a sinister plot afoot.
Simon Templar, known as the Saint, is trying to discover who the mysterious Tiger is.
The Tiger is the head of a criminal operation responsible for stealing millions in gold from an American Bank.
This is an action-packed tale with many twists and turns and a little bit of romance for our hero.
Well, I'm not feeling too bad about not feeling this one, as even the author admitted that it was bad. It took me forever to get through this book, and I ultimately dropped it as I was nearing the last 100 pages...I just couldn't take anymore. It was too melodramatic and silly, and quite frankly, felt all over the place. However, I still will try others in the series, as others swear it is better.
This REALLY counts as a placeholder for other books (I think I've read the first 30 of these, so I have no intention of listing them all you'll be relieved to know!). Classic pulp fiction, with the first one published in 1928.
I think this is the only one of the Saint books I would read over and over again. ...if I could only afford a copy, that is. * wry smile *
Great. I have a first edition and it was worth every penny!
Very cheesy, but most enjoyable intro to "The Saint". (As an aside, it was especially interesting to encounter lots of vocabulary that has fallen into disuse.)
A great mystery and adventure novel , 7 outta 10
A rollick through the Saint's and my history replete with Trophet gaspers...I love it.
This is very rare and expensive. It is worth reading the series from the beginning. This was the 21 year old Charteris' third novel.
