https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/666892.No_Wonder_They_Call_Him_the_Savior
Max Lucado hits it out of the park once again!
4.5 stars!This is chock full of challenging truths and I just read the whole thing in one sitting. Max Lucado is very good at digging to the root of the problem and challenging it in very few words.
Max Lucado wrote the original in Brazil, specifically Rio de Janeiro.The book is based on the cry, "Don't give me religion, give me what matters." His response is that Jesus was killed, buried and resurrected, that part that matters is the cross.
That windy "day when the kingdom of death was repossessed and hope took up the payments." In essence the book is a dissection of the story of the cross from the Bible and who this man Jesus truly was.I really enjoyed the book.
There were many thought provoking chapters that allowed you to see the story in a new light.
My favorite chapter was the story told in one (maybe two or three) word sentences.
In 1986 my publisher sent me a prelease copy of Max Lucado’s No Wonder They Call Him the Savior.
The book took my breath away.
God touched my heart through that book and I knew it was something very special.
In the decades since, tens of millions have discovered Max Lucado, and God has used his books to touch deeply people of many tribes, nations and languages.
I celebrate Max’s 25 years of published writing.
Nanci and I have seen firsthand that Max and Denalyn are the real deal.
I am pleased to recommend—wholeheartedly and enthusiastically—both Max Lucado and his books!
No wonder they call Him Savior.-The Title says so much about the Man and How much He endured for all
This is my favorite Max Lucado book. I love the way he writes and relives the Passion Story, especially the chapter of one-word sentences, "Alive!" That particular chapter really stands out. This book is perfect to read during the season of Lent, before Easter.
The content of this book was great. I didn't always feel like his writing flowed from one chapter to another. More like a bunch of short stories from chapter to chapter. But, it was still very meaningful and I enjoyed it.
Each chapter is short and each chapter is profound. My copy is worn out because I continue to go to it after many years.
Great reminder of why I so love Jesus!
Lucado will make you feel like you were an eyewitness at the cross. Powerful, beautiful book.
This book made me realize God's love in its truest sense. It made me appreciate the cross more. :)
In a sharp and lively style Max Lucado recasts familiar stories from the Gospels in a colourful and highly relevant light for our modern world. A book to be thoroughly recommended, enabling the reader to recover something of the spirit and power of the stories using streetwise language and psychological insight for the twenty first century.
I've read many books on the Cross of Christ and didn't find anything aberrant or heretical within it's digital pages––I didn't expect to.
Lucado is one of those Christian authors who is solid, as far as I know.
If you're a mature Christian, you'll probably find Lucado's style engaging, but you will have read other books that take you deeper into the theology of the Cross.
He seeks to make sure the reader knows, without a doubt, that the Cross is what really matters when it comes to believing in Jesus Christ.
"If the account of the cross is true, it's history's hinge.
If not, it's history's hoax."This book, then, is a search for the meaning of the cross.
No wonder they call him Savior.Next, the scene shifts from Jesus to the witnesses.
I can't do that, and if the only way to appreciate the story of Jesus is to turn the whole thing into a supernatural religion, then I'm left in the cold.Three stars from me, but for another person at another stage in their life, I'm sure Lucado's uplifting writing style will hit the mark.
It just seems like he's always got some new book out that's on display at Christian bookstores and he seems like the kind of writer that moms like.
Well, anyway, when I first started taking my faith seriously I thought I should read some Christian books.
Thanks, Max. This book, as with all of his books that I've read, leans toward the sentimental, emotional side of things, but that's not always a bad thing as long as it's balanced out with scripture and good theology.
This book stirred me up and got me thinking about Jesus.
This book reminds me of a Snuggie.You slip your arms into the sleeves and let the love wrap around you to ward off the chill of anger and unforgivness.
I give this book four stars.It’s not very deep or complicated.
It has a great study guide in the rear of the book.
I would consider this book perfect for an unbeliever.
It’s not wishy-washy and it doesn’t glaze over truth.
Like a snuggie, Christ’s love covers sin and wraps us in the truth.Book given by publisher to review.
Part one is devoted the words of Jesus on the cross.
I used these chapters in tandem with my Kindle Bible, and inserted some notes from Lucado's book for future reference.
Lucado uses scripture, stories, and real life experiences to bring the Bible into focus for our everyday life.
The remaining chapters are devoted to what comes next...
What happened after Jesus was taken down from the cross?
What does the cross mean for each of us?
"[N]ever were those arms opened so wide as they were on the Roman cross.
One arm extending back into history and the other reaching into the future.
Each chapter was nice and short and had it's own story.
To me, this was a good book.
Max leads you in the drama of the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ.
I think this is a book that every Christian should read, or a non-Christian that wants to get closer to God. For some people, this book may be hard to put down, but it is a fast read since the chapters are short as well as the book.
This is the first Max Lucado book I have read.
At some point, I'd like to read more of his books.
“He is the King of Kings, the Lord of Lords, and the Word of Life.
More than ever He is the Morning Star, the Horn of Salvation, and the Prince of Peace.”“TAKE ME HOMEYes, take me Home.Take this prince to his King.Take this son to his Father.Take this pilgrim to his Home.(He desires a rest)”“Quit trying to quench your own guilt.
You can’t do it.
There’s no way.
I don’t care how bad you are.
You can’t be bad enough to forget it.
And I don’t care how good you are.
You can’t be good enough to overcome it.
I love Lucado's pithy Biblical insight into deep truths. You cannot read his work without it touching your heart. If you are looking for "head knowledge" you will be disappointed. If you are looking for that which moves the heart, pick up this book and enjoy the ride.The more I know Christ, the more I realize He wants our hearts, not just our heads. This book is an excellent signpost to many of the words, the people, and the events surrounding that last week of Christ.I highly recommend this book!
This would be a classic. It is timeless. Max Lucado's style of writing is artistic and creates the scene very eloquently. The reader can almost relive each moment and empathize with the characters who walked these events written about in the Bible. The book and it's chronicles about Christ, the cross, and the events that make-up the greatest love stories of all time, teaches and inspires. It was a great read.
Max Lucado has a writing style that really engages his readers. His simple prose, aneccdotes, and way of making one feel as if they're in the story too, makes it difficult to put his books down. This particular book truly does chronicle the cross. He writes from several perspectives, including various people that were there at the time. You can't help but put this book down at the end and see Christ's death and resurrection in a clearer purer and different way than ever before.
I read this in one sitting then read it again a few days later. I recommended this book to everyone I came in contact with and still do. If you ever wondered why we call Him the Savior, read this book written by a man who discovered the answer. You don't have to have a; degree in the Divine to understand; you don't even have to come with an open mind or heart. I don't think anyone can walk away from this book unchanged....one way or the other.
this book was my introduction to Max's writing. I chose it to be the devotional book for our monthly Women's mission group for the year 2000, so this particular cover was not the cover of the book I bought.After reading this book ( many times) I became hooked on Max. Then he was putting out books faster than I could afford them and unfortunately they were not available at my library.
The Thomas Kinkade of Christian authors. Sickly-sweet.
Enjoy the author's writing style.
Though Lucado takes some imaginative liberties that aren't found in Scripture, he has good lessons to teach in the book. Take it with a grain of salt, but there are good morals there.
Read this book again as I have been preparing for Easter. This is one of my favorite Lucado books. It's short but content is excellent.
worth to spend time reading this book ,short captured, but very profound in Jesus last hour's spend with decibels and you to )))
I use to read christian books and this one was clearly my all time favorite.
