https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/171948.Lamb_to_the_Slaughter_and_Other_Stories
Roald Dahl is one of the most sardonic of short story writers.
This little volume, with just five of his best stories, makes for a fast, but exceedingly high quality read.
"Lamb to the Slaughter," the title story, was made into a 30-minute film by Alfred Hitchcock that was one of his best.
"The Bookseller" is a brilliant tale of graft, and "The Butler" shows us the danger of trying to be nouveau riche without knowing what you are doing.Lamb to the Slaughter and Other Stories is a good introduction to Dahl.
This is a great collection of 5 short stories by Roald Dahl, taken from The Collected Short Stories, and published as a Penguin 60.The five short stories are, in the order I enjoyed them the most: The Bookseller The story of a bookseller and his assistant -they run a second hand bookshop, but in reality that is just a front to a much better earner.
Cleverly constructed, excellently funny.
3.5/5A Piece of Cake This was the story I enjoyed the least - an injured WWII bi-plane pilot.
2/5The crafting of the sort stories is masterful, scene setting, details, building suspense and delivering the climax.
The title short story, "Lamb to the Slaughter", is a masterful short story that blends the kind of suspense that we see in the old, 1950s horror stories and films like Alfred Hitcock Presents or Twilight Zone, gender issues, and black comedy.
The story, however, slowly builds into a bizarre, murder story.The wife essentially murders the husband when he decides to leaves her and, all the while, she is cooking her precious leg of lamb.
Dahl's voice is very clever in building suspense, a big component of being a good writer.
Even in a short story format, the reader gets the sense that there is something ominous is lurking in the background...and it is confirmed when the story climaxes.
What a fantastic little book! I was unaware of the fact that Roald Dahl wrote adult fiction until I saw it mentioned in The Storied Life of A.J. Fikry, and then I decided I definitely needed to read this. I enjoyed all five stories, but I especially loved Parson's Pleasure, Lamb to the Slaughter, and The Butler. They were just delightful. In a twisted sort of way.
Review for Lamb to the Slaughter onlyI loved, loved, loved this twisted short story by Roald Dahl!
It's no secret that Dahl is one of the greatest writers of his generation but he very rarely gets enough accolades for his adult books and stories.When Mary Maloney, a devoted housewife, find out her husband Patrick is leaving her she reacts by taking a leg of lamb out of the freezer to took dinner.
But when Patrick tells her not to cook him dinner, he is going out, she snaps and hits him in the head with the frozen leg of lamb, killing him.
J'ai adoré ! C'est un recueil de 4 histoires courtes, proposant à chaque fois un cadre, un climat, un dénouement absolument saisissant. Souvent l'action se plante dans un milieu ordinaire, notamment au coeur du foyer conjugal, et le ton emprunté par l'auteur nous inspire une écoute attentive et quelque peu flippante. La nouvelle la plus célèbre, Coup de gigot, a d'ailleurs été adaptée à l'écran et diffusée lors de l'émission d'A. Hitchcock. Un must ! Je vous conseille fortement l'édition CD, avec Claude Aufaure en narrateur.
Great story and I recommend other people to read it. It is very interesting and cool to read.
Yet another great story created by Roald Dahl; this one having no less quality.A woman betrayed comes with a perfect plan to hide a perfect crime.A very cleverly crafted short story with an amazing and in some ways funny ending.
It was an interesting read I suggest this because it has got some quite interesting sences & some twists
Wow.
It was a subject of humour yet absolutely logical, realizing what she had done, she was determined to cover up her tracks to protect her unborn baby, so she provided an alibi and destroyed her murder weapon in the most unexpected-obvious way - by baking it.The story had a twisted ending, Roald Dahl left me debating on the wife's sanity.
On one hand, I was amazed by how well and calm an ordinary house wife came up with such a brilliant cover up story, yet on the other hand I was beginning to question whether Mary was sane at all, she was too calm for my liking, and no adoring wife would kill her husband, let alone feeding the murder weapon to his fellow colleagues.
A really interesting and surprising collection of stories from one of my favorite children's writers. So dark! I know Matilda, Charlie and the Chocolate Factory, James and the Giant Peach -- these were light and airy books that can be read to 4th graders. Some of the stories in Lamb, however, were so dark as to be almost sinister! It was delightful.
My son found this slim paperback in a used bookstore in Wellington, New Zealand, and all four of us ended up reading it while traveling. Dahl's short stories are rich in character and humor (with one exception: a serious World War II story) and most end with a delightful twist. The humorous stories made me laugh out loud: always a plus!
This was a borrowed book from Jack's mom (or "mum"). We bookworms are everywhere!
"Hell hath no fury like a woman's scorn."
Unexpected, wicked, deeeeelicious! If you like his children's stories, definitely pick up some of his stories for adults.
i really want to adapt THE SOUND MACHINE into a stage musical, but i'm not sure about the legality of doing that.
One of the first short stories I remember reading as a kid, in third grade.
Lamb to the slaughter, By Roald Dahl.Lamb to the slaughter is a gruesome tale of a husband and wife (Mary & Patrick Maloney).The story is set on a Thursday evening, just as Patrick arrived home from his long day working as a detective.
I thought this was quite a mature story, with a very extravagant plot.
This short story is predominately adult themes, without being capped off with any sort of happy ending.
I would score this short story four out of five.
I think this was a very high end of writing in the story, but it was quite mature.
Parson's Pleasure:The first is a story about a scam artist who convinces people that their valuable furniture is worthless to buy it from them at a cheap rate- this comes back to bite him at the end of the story.
A Piece of Cake:This is a trippy, and sad, story about a WWII pilot who experiences hallucinations and visions after crashing his fighter plane.
It is also about a scam artist getting his due reward.
I don't know how you couldn't love that kind of story.
The Butler: This was a very short story about a chef and a butler with exquisite taste who fool a pretentious couple out of fine wines.
Book Review for Lamb to the SlaughterThis story is about a detective’s wife killing her husband.
The wife decides to kill her husband for reasons unknown.
Her husband comes home from a long day at work and she makes him a glass of whiskey.
He then gets up to get another glass and then Mrs Patrick Maloney found the weapons she would use to kill him.
To cover her tracks, she went to the grocer and pretended to buy food for her recently deceased husband.
She then called the cops when she got home to tell them that her husband was dead.
Lamb to the slaughter is a Mistry/crime short book written by Rodale dal and is based of of a couple.
Mary Maloney was sitting down on the chair one day when events started to change.
Listen Sit down I've got something to tell you.
At this moment events turned he explained something to her with a look of horror on her face she said.
When she put here hand into the fridge she pulled out a huge legg of lamb.
And was just about to go upstairs with it when he said "for god sake Don't make supper for me.
When Dahl wrote “she washed her hands, ran upstairs, sat down in front of the mirror, fixed her makeup, and tried to smile and said "Hello, Sam" she said brightly, aloud.
"I want some potatoes, Sam. Yes, and perhaps a can of beans." it made me think about how cold and cruel she must have been to cover up her crime.
This issue is significant to me because I could see how nasty the murderers will think after killing someone.I recommend this text to 7- 20 years old.
The short story Lamb to the slaughter is about a couple who are in a love/hate relationship. The woman eventually gets feed up with the man’s behaviour and decides to whack him around his head with a leg of lamb. The detectives try and find clues about who killed the bloke but the misses is 2 steps ahead and has already put the leg of lamb in the oven. Later that night the lady rewards by asking the detectives if they would like some food, so the end up eating the leg of lamb.
This is a fascinating short story. The way in which Dahl crafts this book is quite honestly exquisite. It is a must read and leads to many questions for the reader. There is so much to consider about what happens and it is enthralling to ponder the possibilities that occur from reading to the end of the story.
Lamb to the Slaughter is a quirky, twisty story! This book is definitely one of my favourite Roald Dahl books.This story tells a short story of a couple; Mary & Patrick. Mary is a heartbroken, bittersweet woman, who went too a bit too far with her anger surging through. Mary stays quirky and calm with her actions throughout the story, urging full of unexpected twists and consequences.I love how Mary stayed so cheeky and calm, handling the police man investigating! I would recommend this story to many of you people, as this is a exciting, yet curious story.
This Penguin book of five short stories is just 87 pages long but what a treat. This is grown-up Roald Dahl. No chocolate factories and BFGs here. The stories draw the reader in, then, just as you think you know the characters and story-line, pow an unexpected twist at the end.
Brought this slim volume on a train trip, was perfect reading for venue. I've never been a big fan of Dahl's children's stories, but I'm now going to search out more of his adult works. Great find from a library booksale.
I've only read Lamb to the Slaughter but it was such a creepy but amusing short story. I still need to read all of the other, but I will mark this as completed.
"Lamb to the Slaughter" and "The Butler" were my favourites. I love Roald Dahl's more dark and humorous stories, I can't help it.
