https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/795034.To_Green_Angel_Tower_Part_1
This is the first half of book 3 in the Memory, Sorrow and Thorn series by Tad Williams, and I definitely felt like this one started off stronger than the previous ones becuase it quickly (I say quickly in terms of Classic fantasy - which is often quite slow, so really not that quickly but quicker) gets into the action and focuses on quite a few different elements and exciting moments.This story follows a fair few people who live in a world which is currently dominated by Winter and storms.
Review soon on eydis.co.Not much to say, its most interesting part of the series so far. More on eydis.co.
Not just this book - but the entire trilogy (or Tetralogy now, I guess, since they have split the 3rd book into two parts).The world building, the characters and their development, and Tad's wizard like storytelling powers pull me into the pages for hours at a time and when I look up in a daze of perfect fantasy world drunkenness all I want to do is slip right back in.I'd love to travel through Osten Ard. It ranks right up there with Middle Earth for me as 'top fantasy places I wish I could visit.' The world is steeped in history and its people are varied and unique.
Just wrote a really long review that Goodreads didn't save and I'm not in the mood to rewrite it so 
S obzirom da je ovo tek prvi dio treće knjige neću još ništa posebno da kažem. Ali bilo je veoma dobro... mnogo historije je istraženo, mnogo filozofije o životu, vjeri i ratovanju i dosta dobrih opisa te bitke koja se ovdje desila. Ima razduženih dijelova, naravno, ali meni nisu smetali i sam sam se tome iznenadio, jer i nisam baš neka strpljiva osoba.Konačni sud o knjizi u drugom dijelu, a sad zasad neka stoji neka 4.
The spellbinding epic unfolds.I can’t help but to continue to compare Tad Williams’ excellent trilogy to George R.R. Martin’s epic (and still in progress) Song of Ice and Fire (dramatized as Game of Thrones), of which I have read all published portions; and to be honest, Martin does not fare well in the comparison.Both epic tales are long, huge canvasses with multiple threads and fates that move at varying pace across the page and in such a broad telling one can easily find oneself a little lost unless the story is very tightly and relevantly coordinated, one fate to the next.Williams does an excellent job of this.
4.5 stars 🌟
Beim re-read fallen manche Längen noch mehr auf (oder ich bin einfach ungeduldiger geworden), trotzdem liebe ich die Geschichte. Besonders wenn sie so toll vorgelesen wird <3
In many ways, of course, that's just the calm before the storm, as I'm well aware the final book will scatter many of these people far apart and bring them back to solitude and darkness, but I can't help revel in the comparative warmth of this part: in the brief victories, the moments of self-empowerment and often, humour.
In fact, I tried, in the beginning of this book, as we see him take on some regular responsibilities and decisions in Josua's service, to pinpoint moments that were *not* believable, to find a scene or development where I could go "hmm, that is a little too mature for Simon", but there aren't any.
8/10(Review for both parts)In the last book of the trilogy Tad William gets us closer to the conclusion of the war, with the story becoming more epic and with the protagonists getting into even greater adventures than before.Even though this book might be a little too big (a total of 1600 pages in the UK edition), I felt that the story flowed really well, and though it could definitely have been a little bit smaller it really isn't something that bother me in the end as Williams has made a very enjoyable story.In the first part the story begins with Miriamele and Cadrach having their own little adventure, as it continues from 
The heroes of the tale begin to do better than just flounder in response to the evil of the Storm King that upsets the balance of nature so greatly winter has come to all the land - Game of Thrones style "Winter is coming" (remember this series inspired George RR Martin to write his series).Reading the book cover text, you would be forgiven for thinking this is the climax of the story.
She heads into the eye of the storm, and our intrepid and naive hero, Simon, must follow for he has sworn as a knight to protect her.Compelling stuff that still needs a good amount of determination to continue reading.
I will reserve judgment til the end of part 2, but I will say that I thoroughly enjoyed this book! there were countless wonderful little details and moments, characterizations and revelations and life lessons (sounds cliché but beautifully handled by Williams). There were a few spots I thought he took some unfortunate shortcuts in narration when he is otherwise a very patient and careful storyteller, both with modernisms as well as the diction choices themselves.
have to start part two of TGAT immediately tomorrow to know what happens since they decided to split the book at a mean point!
A put kroz Wran je bio ispunjen s baš puno napetih situacije.
Bila mi je zanimljiva i priča Eolaira i Maegwin.
Kao i Simon i Miriamele.Međutim nekako na polovini knjige, kad su se svi susreli na Sesuadri tj.
kad se Eolair vratio u Taig i naišao na Maegwin poludjelu nekako mi je knjiga postala dosadnija, dio radnje mi je nekako suvišan.
Zbog toga ocjena 4.Što se tiče negativaca, Pryrates mi je super negativac i baš me zanima kako će završiti i što će na kraju biti s Elijom.
A Quick Review of To Green Angel Tower Part 1 by Tad WilliamsRating: Five Stars Genre: FantasyDate Published: 1993Series: Memory, Sorrow, Thorn #3General: To Green Angel Tower Part 1 is the first part of the last book of the Memory, Sorrow, Thorn trilogy.
However, Part Two actually blows the first half of the book out of the water.
The overall pacing is slower, yes, but that means Williams can pack in more realistic-feeling character development, more feelings, more description, more plot development.
But clearly he's picturing these magical places and events like a movie scene in his mind, and yeah, those are some cool special effects he's describing.By book 3, we've expanded to even more POV characters, which works, because he gives each one enough time to develop.
I like that he's not scared of killing off his characters when it makes sense, even the POV ones, as it adds to the tensions (still, I'm glad he's not going full-bore "Game of Thrones" about it).
Like many classic fantasy adventures, it's male-heavy in its characters.
3,5 stars
I have enjoyed nothing more than sinking into the world of Osten Ard as of late.
A very strong novel and a fantastic fantasy book. Highly recommended. you won't regret this one. You will be gladly amazed with the writer's quality of prose and storytelling. Absolutely captivating stuff.
Great Fantasy storytelling with wonderful charactersI loved this series over 30 years ago. Revisiting this wonderful universe did not disappoint...at all. Not just terrific male characters, but great female characters and unexpected twists work with this classic well written hero's journey.
Great story with many twists and turns. The gang is back together after a few harrowing adventures. Still many mysteries to solve and information about the past to reveal. The descriptive passages are still great to read.
This may be the book that I finally begin to think that Tad Williams is a really talented writer.Let me sum up.
The Dragonbone Chair took me 12 years to read.
The Stone of Farewell took me 1 year to read.
I would read a little then stop for a while.
This book has so much payoff of things that have been set up in the previous 2 novels, and this is only part 1 of 2!!!
I can't wait to start part 2 and finish this series that has taken me 13 years to finally read.
Memory, Sorrow, and Thorn Series Book 3: Part 1This one starts out very slow, but once it gets going it holds my interest better then the first two books.
If you are someone who has made it this far into reading this epic fantasy, there is something you like about it.
i rally like the world, characters and meat of the story.
There is just enough I like about it to hold my interest and has me wanting to finish the series.
Though there are many parts where I almost want to give up.
Consider this a partial grading, because this is after all only half a book; while this installment of Memory, Sorrow, and Thorn was easily up to par and worth five stars, it's only the first act of a greater work.
Aside from a satisfying battle a little ways in, this part of To Green Angel Tower was mostly threading the story lines back together for what will undoubtedly be a gloriously epic finale.
But while it doesn't earn five stars by itself, this part of TGAT was, as usual, beautifully written and a lot of fun.
Can't wait to read the second half.
The realm of Osten Ard is falling under the dark magic of the undead Sithi Storm King. As the darkness spreads, King Elias is succumbing to the evil sorceries that is luring him into an unholy alliance. Prince Josua is struggling to rally the tattered forces of the hopeful in a effort to make a stand against the Storm King. The League of the Scroll’s only hope is to unravel the mysteries of long forgotten magic. Tad Williams continues to captivate readers with this epic tale that rival Tolkien’s. It’s an epic read worth the another read through.
These books just seem to get better and better. I'm so glad I stuck with the first book in this series, the Dragonbone Chair, despite the relatively slow start. Tad Williams is a great writer (which is what kept me going with the first book, much to my gratitude) , the characters seem to come alive, and the story is wonderfully complex. So glad I was able to get back to this book after a few years of being distracted by other books (one of the perils of having a library within walking distance). Now, on to Part 2!
onward to part two
The story is getting really interesting now, as everything starts to come together and more of the past is revealed. This is probably my favorite book of the "trilogy" so far.
Just FINISH it already, Tad, seriously, you're killing me here. Its not bad/boring enough for me to give up on it & is only *just* interesting enough to keep me reading.
Novel's like these make me long for an e-reader but I'm determined to only read physical books as modelling for my daughter.I enjoyed the book.
It seemed to take forever to read and at the same time I was sad when it was finished and to have a take break from Seoman Snowlock.
I think a large part of the charm of the series is Simon the scullion boy's suffering, growth, genuine humility, and the way he watches these heroic tales build around him (about him) even though to him they simply feel like events that he livd through and tried to do the right thing.
