https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/181775.Henry_Reed_Inc_
I know I read this as a kid living in the Midwest, but it was even more fun as an adult living in the area of NJ where the book takes place -- familiar culture, places, problems.
Even though I'm not sure where the author's fictional town of Grover's Corner would be (the author lived in Hopewell), it was fun to hear mention of Princeton Junction, tiny little Mount Rose, Plainsboro, New Hope, etc.
Anyway, I would recommend this book to kids living in my area.
I have one tiny quibble with this book, but it is easily overlooked with the wonderful boyish genius of the rest of the story. Henry Reed is wonderful! This is what it means to be a smart curious little boy with an equally smart and endearing tomboy next-door. We are officially huge fans. Hopefully we win our eBay auctions so that we can buy the other books in the series.
Looking back to my youth:I remember, now, reading Henry Reed, Inc. back in about the seventh grade. Awesome fun then awesome fun now. No space battles, no Divergents or Hunger Games or Maze, just an eighth-grader spending the summer with his aunt and uncle in a small New Jersey town, who somehow manages to regularly and repeatedly attract a charming, 1950's sort of trouble almost daily. Hats off to Mr. Robertson for a clean, fun story
Henry even has a barn at his disposal, because his mother inherited it, and uses this to set up his research business.
There are gentle high jinks all along, and at the end, Midge insists that the business be renamed Reed and Glass (Henry does own the barn), and the two repaint the sign together.
Henry and Midge are both industrious, curious children who are not content to sit and stare at their phones all day, which would have been QUITE boring in 1958.
This is another book I really liked as a kid that I was interested to revisit.
I perceived it as a book about a very smart, independent, can-do kid who happened to get involved in some funny situations.
(I especially love the fifties-ness of how adults let him and his friend do pretty much whatever.) However, as a kid I, like Henry, didn't get what Uncle Al was telling him all along--that although Henry doesn't intend to cause trouble, his ambitions combined with a lack of foresight (because smart as he is, he's still a kid) make him an Agent of Chaos.
MCL. I think it would be fun to visit family far away for the whole summer.
I enjoyed this, but not as much as the twin 10 year old boys I teach. It was perfect for them!
A FAVORITE CLASSIC FOR YOUNG AND OLDIt was a hot (HOT!) summer day in Corpus Christi, Texas.
(How could a nerdy, bespectacled me NOT be drawn to this book?) Robertson’s skilled writing relates to us the fascinating tale of Henry’s summer adventures in Princeton, New Jersey with Uncle Alfred, Aunt Mabel, Henry’s new friend/source of irritation, Midge, and of course… a dog!
Delighted at discovering this old friend, I checked it out and re-read it -- still a good read as an adult.
A decade later, I would incorporate passages from a copy I purchased (and still own) into one of my high school physics classes.HENRY REED, INC.
A fun, classic read. Interesting stories with appeal to children and adults. Henry Reed and his friend, Midge Glass, are likable characters, as are Henry's Aunt and Uncle. A nice read-aloud for parents to share with their children. Looking forward to the subsequent books in the series.
Pretty sure I read this as a kid. I liked it, but somehow it was missing the funny. They got into plenty of goofy adventures, but it just doesn't have the wit and charm of say, The Great Brain books.
this is a funny book. it has a boy main caricter and a girl so any one could like it.

Good mid-century kid's fiction.
Enjoyed re-reading with my 8yo, although subsequent books in the series are more exciting.A subtle indicator of how life has changed, though: Both my 8yo and I both found ourselves cringing when Henry gets into a situation where he's inadvertently blocking traffic.
Turns out we both were tensed for the outpouring of rage from drivers.
Neither of us anticipated the patience, chuckles, and ultimate good-natured assistance Henry receives from the inconvenienced drivers.
Unimaginable in 2017 Philadelphia, where slowing anyone else down on the road is a cardinal sin, literally (as recent cases attest) as much as your life might be worth.
Amusing book about a boy who has grown up in Europe experiencing a summer in America ... back in the days before helicopter parenting where kids roamed free and largely unsupervised. I didn't expect much from this book, and while it isn't great literature it is clean fun for kids to read. 3.5 stars
I just finished reading this book with my 10 year old son, and I am a bit surprised that it was from 1989 it seems more like a pre 1960s children's book both in themes and illustrations. It thankfully lacked the dogma of those early children's books and was fun to read.
Things seem to happen around Henry that aren't quite entirely his fault. A fun summer adventure.
My boys are gonna love this. They love books about boy entrepreneurs.
This author really knows how kids’ brains work. Fun read out loud book. If you or your child like Beverly Clearly, you will love this book.
GOOD!!!!!
This is very similar in style to “Homer Price” books. Similarly dated and boring. Not even close to the charm of “The Great Brain” series which I and my children loved. I was so hopeful this would be as good. Oh well.
This one started off with a bang on the first page by singing the praises of journal writing and even referencing Samuel Pepys! I had an enjoyable romp through an enterprising childhood summer with Henry and company. It was fun enough in fact that I was only mildly irritated when he referred to punning as the lowest form of humor. Harrumph!
However, his parents want him to get a taste of life in the United States, so they send him to spend the summer with his mother’s brother and sister-in-law, Uncle Al and Aunt Mable Harris, in Grover’s Corner near Princeton, NJ.
I have read and reviewed two books in the Henry Reed series, Henry Reed’s Baby-Sitting Service (1966), which tells about Henry’s second summer in Grover’s Corner during which Henry and Midge establish a baby sitting service to make money and find a disappearing child and a peacock among their charges, and Henry Reed’s Big Show (1970), which is about a later summer when Henry and Midge want to put on a play but end up doing a rodeo instead.
Together with Midge, a girl in the neighborhood, he begins gathering animals to sell, offering services to the locals, and in every spare moment trying to catch Midge's runaway rabbit, all while staying away from the grumpy man next door who would prefer never to see or hear from Henry.This is a series I completely missed as a kid, and I think, had I read them, I would not have been a fan.
This is why I think this book is a perfect choice for a reader who wants a real "boy story." Henry's voice as he writes his adventures in his journal is strongly masculine, and his summer adventures involve dirt, animals, tinkering, and goofing around in ways that are very boyish.
Having said that, there are still tiny communities in the Midwest that have about nine houses and a filling station--Blink and You Miss It, USA.Henry (who says in the first few pages that he prefers to be called Hank but is always adressed, by everyone, as Henry) is the 13-yr-old son of a US diplomat who has grown up shuttling around the world; and yet he talks and acts very much like a smalltown American boy.
In the Henry Reed books, however, he has figured out a narrative voice that successfully masks his limitations: Henry is a forthright young boy with the defining character trait of lacking a sense of humor.
But rather than drag the book down, this voice rings true to the character and more importantly, highlights the plot.Henry is an enterprising lad who is – through no fault of his own – constantly accosted by all types of zany hijinks, and, dare I say, wacky shenanigans.
Henry's age reversion back to 13 in the final book, despite the fact that it's set after the others, gives the character's world a James Bond-like sense of timelessness.
In the 1950s, Henry Reed goes to spend the summer with his aunt and uncle in rural New Jersey. He engages in a series of innocent escapades, of the sort that were considered daring and adventurous in the 1950s.
I was given this book by Miss Julie Bliss, my second grade teacher circa 1982.
And subsequently, I loved this book.
It was my first book not pilfered from the school library - I had too much reverence at the time.
Reverence, notedly, not reserved for a first edition library bound hardbound issuance of Harriet the Spy - which I am glancing at, guiltily - as I type.I can't even imagine expounding about the joy of Keith Robertson's writing in this day and age.
But I digress.A book for the ages.
I continue to adore this book for now, the ages and whatever the raven quoth.
Keith Robertson's humor is ebulliently deadpan (if that's possible), with one hilarious episode after another.
Humor may change over time, but a really good writer of humor can make something funny regardless of the era in which you reading their work (see Mark Twain).
Robertson's characters and situations, as narrated by the stoic and reasoned Henry Reed, are keenly drawn.
The balloon scene at the end still has me laughing out loud, even though I've re-read this book at least a dozen times.
He thought it might be a good book for Emily and asked me to read it and give my opinion.
Henry and his neighbor Midge have many interesting experiences during the summer Henry spends with his aunt and uncle.
While the experiences aren't common today, children now would probably find them interesting because they aren't things they would be allowed to do today (painting a barn, smoking out a hornets nest, inflating a large bag with hydrogen, etc.).
Yes, it's old, but I'd still recommend it for children today, although conversations about some of Henry's thoughts about girls might be in order.
I was a HUGE fan of Henry Reed's Babysitting Service when I was a kid, but never read any of the others in the series.
(And am working on finding the others in the series!)I'm a big fan of summer stories in general, and Henry and Midge have it made.
A big yard and a barn with no grown-ups to bother them, and lots of money to be made and trouble to be found.As another reader commented, Henry's complete lack of a sense of humor is hilarious, and Midge's corny puns are really only fantastic because she thinks they are.
