https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/99111.The_World_of_Winnie_the_Pooh
As part of a children's book readathon on my blog in August 2018, voters chose Winnie-the-Pooh by A.A. Milne as one of our award-winning books to read this week.
I've seen several shows and cartoons with nieces, nephews, and cousins, but reading the wonderfully illustrated picture books was a fresh experience.
I'd forgotten how 'mischievous' Pooh and his friends could be.When we picked this classic, I never specified which of the books to read -- silly of me, actually, as Pooh might think or say!
With true English underplayed humour, Milne has invested these stuffed toys with fascinating personalities.Pooh, the "Bear of Very Little Brain", but subject to occasional flashes of brilliance and bursts of versification.Piglet, the smallest and weakest of them all but sometimes capable of doing "Very Grand Things".The clever Rabbit, many a time too much so for his own good.The pedantic and pompous Owl, who can't restrain himself from holding forth at the slightest provocation.The long-suffering Eeyore with his never-ending complaints.The devoted Kanga and her frisky little son Roo, whom she keeps in her pocket.Happy-go-lucky Tigger, bouncing all over the woods.These characters are typically English: in fact, they could have stepped out from a P.G.Wodehouse novel.
So as you can imagine, not all the animals were pleased when Christopher Robin told them they would undertake a Second Expotition to find out what was in the Dark Patch."I'm not going there, no thank you!" said Piglet, trying to sound as firm as possible.
"There aren't really any Pythons?" asked Piglet in a terrified voice."Well," said Pooh, "I only put them in because they Came To Me. I'm going to take them right out again." And he continued
"Who could have imagined it would be right in the middle of the Dark Patch?""I shall call it Pooh's Pond," said Christopher Robin firmly.
Celebrity Death Match tournament versus Mary Poppins.Christopher Robin: May I color with my Winnie the Pooh and friends coloring book before I make up my bed with ideal hospital corners?
Deathliness is closer to godliness, I fear, more than cleanliness.The doctor: I could make the bear more money on his fun fun, now that you mention it.Mary Poppins conceals her reactions to this business opportunity behind her black umbrella.
I have been turning more and more to the pot.Christopher Robin's spirit bends down to kiss his bear on the forehead.Winnie: We must go with other boys and girls and provide companionship.
My dad's nickname for my mom was “Pooh,” and she introduced him to the Pooh books when they were dating (he was a Jewish boy from Staten Island, and knew all about science and philosophy, but had missed out on most of the children's classics), and lines and characters from the books were part of our family culture.
Christopher Robin is leaving his “nursery days,” and he asks Pooh to always remember him.
He, Christopher Robin, doesn't want to leave, but it's time and he has to, but a part of him will always remain in this enchanted place with Pooh.
She passed away Tuesday night, and I'll miss her terribly, but I think this was a fine book to end with.
However, I'm one of those people who never got to read the book as a kid and I only rediscovered it now while catching up with all the classics I've missed out on.So I found this all-in-one volume online and had to have it since it not only contains all the stories but also has the original illustrations by Ernest Howard Shepard.I have to say, this book is especially delightful because it contains lots of information about the author and illustrator and I always love learning about the interconnectedness of the literary world.In this case, we learn that the author A.A. Milne had a son called Christopher Robin who was his inspiration.
She crossed the room, pausing at the bloody tableau to intone,"Your candle burned at both ends,It gave a lovely light,But for a lack of lithium,You've gone and lost the fight."***She knelt gently beside Christopher Robin, handed him his stuffed bear, and said, "Childhood is the kingdom where nobody dies..."A couple of survivors chipped in,"What about Old Yeller?""And Charlotte the spider?
And here are all your friends around you safe and sound."Pooh gave Christopher Robin an especially reassuring squeeze with his paw.
Standing up a little shakily, Christopher Robin said, "I don't like it here!
I know there's a lot of cultural pressure, especially among my demographic, to declare childhood classics like this 'saccharine' and 'condescending'; and, in all fairness, there are some supposedly-classic titles that are indeed worthy of such terms.
Not that children are pure or good or even particularly innocent (far from it), but more a particular way of looking at the world, where our imaginary friends can be just as important as our real ones, and where the long lazy days stretch out before us like an endless river of sun-dappled adventures; the days when we really don't know what each new day might bring, but that's all right, because it's certain to be new and fascinating.Your mileage may, of course, vary.
I was Christopher Robin (being the eldest), my next sister was Pooh (it seemed to me she was always the most interesting character proto-type in all the books I read), my next sister was Rabbit, my next sister was Piglet, and the baby sister was Roo. Our mother was Kanga (of course) and our father was relegated to the role of Eeyore.
To this day I remember a passage where Piglet was asleep in the story, at which point we all looked at sister number four and she was fast asleep!All children should have such memories.More recently my teenage daughter and I read aloud several pages from a chapter to a group of pre-school age children attending a library story time.
There is no comparison between the original book and the saccharine Disney version of our friend, Pooh. Milne's version is so full of insights into childhood to delight the adult reader that are entirely missed by the more popular version. I bought this book on a whim while trying to start a family, read it to my babies long before they are ready to enjoy these stories, and look forward to sharing Pooh's delightful adventures with them as they grow up. I don't know that I need any other books in their library ... but of course there will be!!
What is detritus?HAMLET: (who is standing authoritatively at a window:) DetectiveRosencranz, I'm afraid that we're gonna have to subject Mr.Pooh here to an electrolite neutron-magnetic scan test.POOH: Uh, uh, a what?ROSENCRANZ: Detective HAMLET, I think that's an excellent idea.
(Opening up door; yells:)WE'RE GONNA NEUTRON THIS LITTLE BASTARD!HAMLET: And I can't wait.(Copy room.
(Checking the papers in the machine:) We see whatwe find out.ROSENCRANZ: Alright, bring him in!(A UNIFORM brings POOH into the room.)HAMLET: Okay Pooh, according to Federal regulation seven dash sevendash b dash point six, I have to inform you that continued exposure tothis machine, the electrolite neutron-magnetic test scanner, can belethal.
Mali plisanci iz ove price su svi predivni i ne moze se to drugacije reci. Bas svatko od njih predstavlja jednu karakternu osobinu, a njihove zajednicke avanture su sve od reda podsjetnik na najvaznije stvari u zivotu. I bedasto su urnebesni i tope led svojom toplinom... Posveta malom Christopheru Robinu kojeg svi nosimo u svom bicu!
I have no qualms about counting this book towards my Goodreads challenge, not only because of the page count, but because I'm convinced it only gets funnier and more profound the older you get. I can see myself in each of the characters, although there are a couple I particularly identify with (Pooh and Eeyore, depending on the day and my mood ;) ). I was so choked up at the end that I could barely get through the last paragraph. Absolutely wonderful.
There’s something about that scratchy AM signal, the evening slowly getting darker, the slow pace of the baseball game, and just being around dad and a peripheral part of whatever he was doing that stirs a wonderfully fond recollection in me.I don’t remember the specifics of any one of those times, nor do I really remember how often it happened, but it does stick with me.We’ve had a routine in our house, starting early enough that neither of our boys know anything different, where right before bed, I read a book and sing a song to each of them individually.Last November, I was looking for some books to challenge Jacob a little more than what we had been reading.
I feel like I'm one of the few people who didn't actually grow up with Winnie the Pooh.
Oddly enough I did write some Winnie the Pooh stories when I was a kid, but those have long since been forgotten.Because of this, I don't think I can appreciate these stories like others.
The illustrations help keep the stories from becoming entirely bland, but I still found myself slugging through multiple spots.Don't get me wrong, I love these kinds of stories that play off the imagination of a child.
What can I say? The complete tales of A Bear with Very Little Brain and a Very Big Heart in one volume with the original E.H. Shepard illustrations? Absolutely lovely. We can learn so much from Pooh about the purity of love and friendship, and we can learn so much about A.A. Milne from the stories and from his adorable dedications of each book to his wife. A great set of stories to contemplate from childhood to maturity, and the poems are wonderful to read out loud. Even if there are no children around.
Children's books often have a clarity that most books for grownups lack; I'm certainly way outside the target demographic for this one, but it doesn't mean--"Wait a minute, you've NEVER read 'Winnie-the-Pooh?'"No, I haven't.
Dare I ask?"No. The point is, it's possible to be familiar with a story without ever actually having read it.
As I was saying, I do read children's books once in a while, and Winnie-the-Pooh ticks off several reasons why: clarity of thought, literary merit, cultural iconography, or even just dissociating yourself from the pop-cultural version of something that someone else repackaged after the fact and tried to sell back to you as a scratch-and-sniff book.
I have read these to my son many times since he turned 4..,and now at 5, he finds them funnier (and sometimes sadder) than ever. The characters are alive to us, and we quote this book to each other and of course describe every rainy, windy day as "quite blustery."
☆3.5/5☆
Negalėjau neduoti šiai knygai visų penkių žvaigždučių. Ji tokia paprasta, miela, šilta, kad tikrai verta gerų įvertinimų. Rašoma apie Pūkuotuko ir jo draugų didesnius ar mažesnius nuotykius. Joje yra visko: draugystės, nuoširdžių pastangų, vaikiško naivumo, geraširdiškumo. O kur dar Pūkuotuko murmelės "O gegutė neulbuoja, Tik kukuoja ir būbuoja, Mikė sau pūkuotukuoja it paukštis". Viena iš gražesnių vaikiškų knygučių.
I read Winnie-the-Pooh for the first time when I was 21 years old and thought it was one of the most funny, sweet and endearing books I have read thus far. I believe Winnie-the-Pooh to be a book that can be enjoyed by both adults and children for completely different reasons. As a 21 year old, I noticed the sometimes sarcastic but, in my opinion, hilarious tone of A.A. Milne's writing, something a child might not notice. I think it is written very cleverly and that Milne has created a beautiful fantasy world.
2017: Read to my younger daughters (age 7 & 5) - on reflection slightly too old for them I think, but fun to read together.2010 Reading: Read with oldest daughter (age 5) each night over the course of a few months. She loved it, and so did I actually! This sort of timeless children's book is rewarding for a grown up reader too.
"Poetry and Hums aren't things which you get, they're things which get you. And all you can do is to go where they can find you" ---A.A. Milne.
But a few stand out - Pooh stuck in Rabbit's hole, when Eeyore loses his tail, the expedition to the North Pole (the stream, a great example of the layers of fiction, of imagination and escapism), when Tiger finds out he doesn't like trees and the final sequence when Owl is looking for a new house.What makes Pooh's world special though is Milne's language, still fresh, humourous and playful almost a hundred years on.
I recently saw the film "Goodbye, Christopher Robin," and it inspired me to finally sit down and read this gem of a book.
I found myself re-reading several times because I wasn't paying as much attention as i should have been doing while reading, to catch the irony or humor that probably would only be caught by adults --- so Milne was way ahead of time in putting little precious moments in his kids' books for adults READING to the kids can enjoy as well!
Though I didn’t remember liking Pooh much, I decided that we needed to remedy the situation, and checked out The World of Winnie-the-Pooh from the library (the first two books together).
My best guess is that I never actually read the books as a kid (I know, I know), and was relying on either the Disney movie from the 1960s (still pretty good - we also got the DVD from the library), or the Disney cartoon series and specials (nah) my brother watched when he was little and I was a teenager to inform my opinions.
In which case, I was too cool for Pooh Bear or any other little kid stuff.
The World of Pooh is a series of short stories about life in the Hundred Acre Wood.
Gavin read this to Alice and I thought that I'd read it myself since I am a general fan of Winnie the Pooh.
I found myself falling asleep rather quickly as I was reading this, but I suspect it has more to do with the season I read this in than with the content of the book.
In general the stories are sweet, gentle ones.
I was interested that certain characters appear over time (if I recall, Tigger doesn't even come on the scene until the second book).
"-Какво най-много обичаш да правиш на този свят, Пух?Това, което най-много обичам на този свят, е аз и Прасчо да дойдем да те видим и ти да ни кажеш: "Какво ще кажете за нещо малко?", и аз да кажа: "Не бих имал нищо против, а ти, Прасчо?", и вън да е ден за тананикане и птичките да пеят" Мечо Пух
This is such a charming, sweet, funny, and timeless collection of stories about the adventures of characters in the hundred acre wood. My favorite characters are Pooh, Piglet, and Eeyore. I love Ernest Shepherd's illustrations. The bittersweet ending always makes me cry. It is a sad fact that we all have to grow up, but this book can remind us of the magical thinking our childhoods possessed.
Jeugdsentiment
