https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/57043.Foreigner
Review contains fanart and images done by me. ^.^  Sci-fi...Let me tell you something about sci-fi books... they are scary! No, I'm not talking about movies or TV series, and yes, Astronomy was one of my favorite subject in school. But for some reason, sci-fi books are generally on a completely different level for me.I have ventured into sci-fi territory before ... And, occasionally, I would find something "comprehensible" enough for my fairies-and-dragons-obsessed brain.Buuuut, in most cases..
stuff, overall – a potential for me to enjoy it as long as it wasn't too philosophical, too military orientated or too techno-terms heavy.~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*~*THE REVIEW (yep, finally)I was very cautious when I started Foreigner, but as I kept going I found myself falling in love with the potential of the series.
Why would Tabini send him from one dangerous place to another?As time passes by, Bren falls in love with the old-fashion way of the Atevi, but there's something troubling him...He feels like he's being tested and he has no idea why.
i for one appreciate the effort and am happy to report that the writing in this novel makes every attempt to be as repetitious, plodding, and as glacially-paced as possible, in order to allow the novice and/or challenged reader to fully grasp the ideas on display.
it is no wonder that this novel spawned so many sequels!i have constructed a brief fantasia that illustrates this arresting technique:Bren was extremely worried about the assassination attempt and was quite annoyed that his freedom of movement had been compromised.
And as if the assassination attempt wasn't enough, now he couldn't even leave his apartment unaccompanied.
Their knee-jerk reactions are *not* ours, and Bren, our interpreter/diplomat, starts out in the middle of an assassination attempt on his life for reasons he doesn't understand and political associations and alien emotions that refuse to be cracked.
It doesn't help that the Atevi think of everything in a type of numerology, that word orders and groupings of people or objects are either fortunate or unfortunate, that Bren must do the equivalent of tensor calculus with ever sentence, and then he gets thrown into the really life-threatening situations.The whole novel is about trying to understand his situation, and its harrowing and I'm just as concerned and confused as the MC.
Nail biting adventure convoluted political intrigue ensues.I love strange, inscrutable sci-fi aliens, like the Ariekei from China Miéville’s  Embassytown and the Heptapods in Ted Chiang’s Story of Your Life.
Initially, I found Cherryh’s Atevi disappointingly human, they don’t look all that strange and their culture has many human characteristics and facilities.An ateviHowever, the Foreigner series has been described as “anthropological science fiction” in that it explores the theme of an outsider trying to understand the culture and lifestyle of an alien species by applying his own incompatible culture and experiences.
"I wrote this 50 page short story, what do you think?" Said C.J. Cherryh."It's great, but can you stretch into a 20 volume series of 500 page books?
I would love to read the next book in the series, but there is just so much that needs to be done first, like reading anything else I can find anywhere else.
In fact given a choice between counting how many kernels of popcorn come in a bag and reading the next book, I think I would start counting.
I blame Michael Whelan who made attractive cover art.
The cover art is displaying black tall warrior class alien.
But the first book is more like planetary adventure than space opera.This novel has good opening, but after that the story is dragging with unmemorable ending (I don't remember the ending, and I don't really care).
And there are a lot of plots/questions unresolved.Then I found out that this book is the first of a pretty long series (around 20 years in the making between book 1 and book 15).
I expected a single novel story, not a beginning of a long series.
It's somehow proved impossible for me to get into this book. There is nothing appealing about either characters or setting to draw me in, and there is something about the writing and the sentence structure (paragraphs usually consist of a single sentence, even the longest ones) that completely puts me off. I thus simply feel like I'm looking at words rather than reading. But as I've heard good things about the series, I might try again at some point in the future.For now, no rating given as I put it down too quickly.
Foreigner is one of the most in-depth, uncompromising examinations of the way cultures interact in science fiction. Rereading it after all this time and with the added benefit of having read some of the later books in the series, I discovered a whole new level of complexity that’s probably almost impossible to appreciate on a first reading—complexity on almost every level, from Bren’s personal life and the subtle interactions of the atevi characters on the micro-level to the incredible socio-political depth on the macro-level.Read the entire review on my site Far Beyond Reality!
I hadn't read a Cherryh book for quite a while so I thought it was very appropriate to read one now, and while I've read this one before a long time ago, I never continued with the series due to availability issues where I lived at the time.En-route to build a new space station as key outpost for human expansion the Phoenix suffers an accident during it's faster-than-light travel and ending up completely lost in space.
A landing is made, and so is first contact with the alien Atevi, gold-eyed, black-skinned humanoids with a deeply strange culture.Cut to many more generations later.
I noticed a far from complete list of terms at the back that contained many of the names of the main characters.
It's just that there are so many of them and the names are alien.
I was reading a paper copy so I noticed the list in the back.
On a Kindle I doubt I would have.The protagonist, Bren, is a weak but intelligent character and the supporting cast of aliens, hostile and sort of friendly, are definitely more powerful.
If you're looking for an action shoot 'em up alien story, this will bore you.
Down below I had fun reading from the POV of an atevi and his human counterpart was an interesting character as well.Unfortunately, with the beginning of the main storyline, my enjoyment took a nosedive.
Bren, our main character, lives among the atevi as the sole human, a diplomat and interpreter of the sometimes incomprehensible language and cultural concepts of the atevi.
I like my stories plot-driven, endless navel-gazing over the same points and ideas for pages after pages holds little interest for me.
Except for the last 50 pages or so, when we got a little action.The other characters were even shallower than Bren.
The novel charts these events very quickly, a sort of prelude to the real story that focuses on the relationships between humans and the atevi through the eyes of the paidhi, a human diplomat cum interpreter of both language and cultural differences, working at improving dealings between the two races.
Although Cherryh uses the third person, we only get Bren's very limited point of view and the narration feels very much like a stream of consciousness, as we follow his thoughts, fears and doubts.
I did like it but I believe that a re-read would probably give a different light on events and people, and improve the experience.In the meantime, I need to hunt the second instalment, which seems to be hard to get.
I'm surprised that the reviews of this aren't more tepid.The atevi are interesting: the alien species at the heart of the book, dark-skinned, larger than humans, but more importantly hardwired in a different way.
Most of the book picks up (after two interesting early chapters that unfortunately don't really go anywhere) a few generations later, after a truce has been reached.
The book would be more entertaining if Cherryh had found a way to show us what the atevi are like through more action instead of telling us through Bren's rather bland stream of conscious.
I was about halfway through this book and said out loud "Yay, something happened!" and realized I could no longer waste time with this.
(Except for the first two introductoy books) it was the most repetitive thing ever!
Bren can't go anywhere by himself.
Bren is bored.
That is all, and i wrote it in three sentences.I REALLY wanted to like this book, and I hear it gets better, but if i saw the word worry one more time I would have thrown my book, and I really hate book abuse.
I really wanted to like this. And for a time it seems like I will. And then boredom hit. Bren is one of the most boring characters I've ever met. The atevi were incredibly intriguing but because of Bren's POV I feel like they never really got a chance to shine. The last few chapters provided the bulk of entertainment and even made me curious about the rest of the series. So maybe, just maybe, I'll read the sequel. One day. But not too soon.
But if you weren't, it wouldn't be a huge loss to not know how it all ends or whether or not Bren Cameron survives and is able to navigate the delicate relations between humans and atevi.I wouldn't say I'm invested, but I do want to know what happens next--alien worlds and political intrigue are an interesting combination.
depressingly obtuse.- I often found myself frustrated during the read at the human side of this problem, and at Bren especially, since it doesn't seem like the atevi are that alien or difficult to figure out.
I think what upsets me the most is how good the first two "starts” were and how much potential it had (and wasted).Issue #2: the main character was very unlikable.And not in an anti-hero “I’m an asshole and I don’t care who knows it” kind of way, but in an entitled, “spoiled little rich boy” kind of way.
Harsh but true.Issue 3: the entire story took place on the periphery of the action.I don’t want dozens and dozens of pages of speculation on what happened.
And despite my aversion to politics in real life, I actually love reading them in books – especially between humans and interesting alien species.
Finally finished this book! RTC
You must wade through two sections of backstory before you get to the real opening of the series, when Bren, the main character, is attacked in his rooms without a clue as to why.
From there it takes off like a bullet and, despite Cherryh's often long (and characteristic) lapses into musings by the character on life, the universe and everything, it never lets the reader go.
The only drawback, as with much of Cherryh's work, is that she can leave the reader behind in failing to really clarify why some things happen.
The star system is very frustrating.
I can't decide if my frustration at trying to understand the atevi species that humans deal with in this book is a function of my fuzzy thinking or a function of C.J. Cherryh's brilliance in making me feel like the hero, Bren, felt through much of the book.
Therefore it's hard to figure out how many stars to give it.
At any rate, the tension that built throughout the book as Bren struggled to figure out what was happening to the world where he served as paidhi or interpreter, came gradually to a climax.
Damned if she doesn't have me hooked, so that now I have to find out what happens in the next book!
The novel started as a speedy space opera for a couple of pages.
After that first few chapters, Cherryh slammed the brakes, and it didn't get any faster for the rest of the novel.
Yes, there is a bit of action after a while, but no, it isn't like any Scalzi.
This complete switch in pacing was hard to take.
It isn't written densely and I found out that I can skim over complete passages without loosing anything meaningfut.
I liked the typical Cherryh tropes but probably won't read the rest of the series.
This is the beginning of a 12 books series - written in 4 trilogies.
One can read as many of the trilogies as one would wish.
I had the great joy of being able to pick up book 1 and wonder how the HECK she was going to get these characters from where they start in book 1 to where i knew them in book 5 - and what a wonderful ride *that* was!12th book not out as of this August 2010 review - but the first 11 are Da Bomb!I've read the series 3 times now (1st time, only 6 books, 2nd time 9 books, last time 11 books - waiting on book 12 ;>)
I've been sitting on this book at least a decade; currently feel like a tool for not reading it ages ago. Of course I'm hooked now that the series is seventeen books long and counting.
I liked 'Foreigner', the first novel in a science fiction series about what happens following a landfall of starship-traveling humans on an unknown planet.
Only one association, led by Tabini currently, agreed to any contact with the humans, and then only because the humans agreed to give the atevi technology.
They know it could be weaponized.Tabini's home city, Shejidan, is the only atevi place on the planet where a single human is permitted to live.
Bren occupies a state of constant nervousness, never knowing if he will insult Tabini and cause the atevi to attack Mospheira.
There are reasons that we have rules about good writing.
We should be just as hard on big-name authors when they goof-up as we are on new writers.
The main character of this book is totally passive.
Just not interesting.It can be good to try something unconventional, and the plot and world that is developed here certainly qualifies.
I cannot believe Cherryh could build a soon to be 15-book franchise out of such a weak, uninteresting plot line.
However, this is the second Cherryh novel I have tried and failed to complete, so I have to conclude that her writing is not for me.
Technology is unrealistic - humans have mastered faster-than-light travel but still rely on projectile weapons, no one has a working cell phone (mass-market consumer items at the time this book was initially published), cars/trains/airplanes are used for transportation.
The only well-developed character is our protagonist "Bren" whose internal monologue is repetitive and irritating - other characters exist as little more than caricatures.
Cherryh's prose is often clunky and awkward, resulting in large portions of the book that can be skimmed or skipped entirely with very little effect on the story.
And the pacing is terribly slow, so you will very much want to skip ahead.
In terms of the politics and relationships of humans and Atevi I liked the book a lot and learning the differences in culture was great.
The problem I had with this book is that even though I enjoyed it, I felt as if a lot of the story was quite slow and drawn out, and it could probably have been shortened (a weird thing to say when there's now about 18 in the series!!!) I think this serves a good purpose as an introduction to this planet and the human:alien relationships being formed and broken here, but I also felt like it was just the very beginning and not a lot of action really takes place.Overall I liked Bren's story and felt that it was an interesting concept to explore.
The book gives a short account of how humans arrived on the planet (An exploring spaceship went off course).
The account is sketchy and leaves holes which are filled in later in the book, as a kind of surprise (at least it was a surprise to me).
The reader discovers gradually throughout the book that there was a war, which led to a truce whereby humans have the right to an island on the planet, as long as they share their more advanced technology with the locals, the “atevi”.The real story starts with an assassination attempt on the “paidhi”, the sole human resident at the court of the atevi.
And, even though Cherryh's aliens are as human as you'd find on Star Trek (and the bulk of this book happens 200 years after first contact), the aliens are enough different that our protagonist, Bren--even though he's a professional interpreter--spends a lot of time obsessing about what they're really thinking.
Mostly that this 400+ page tome is merely a set up for the rest of the series.
A very good set up but, while the telling of Bren's coming to trust the Atevi is well told, we could have done with a little less--no, a lot less of the repetitive self-psychoanalysis.
THANK GOD THAT'S OVER.Tune into the podcast for something more detailed than that.
