https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/60162.The_Godmakers
This book may be the ultimate secret agent novel.It could also be the most insanely ambitious work of anthropological science fiction.It's also a gold mine for anyone interested in Frank Herbert's work.Let me explain...The Godmakers is a fix-up novel, a cluster of short stories smooshed into the shape of a novel.
I was reminded of other sf secret agent tales, like Joe Haldman's All My Sins Remembered or Herbert's character Jorg McKie.Orne is also an anthropologist, although the term never appears.
In the opening segment (story) he and an ally uncover one planet's secret by studying the shape and size of its roads.
Unfortunately, this book has none of the complexity or depth of 'Dune.''The Godmakers' gives us Lewis Orne, an agent for a military-style organization that is charged with enforcing peace.
What will he do with his new and unprecedented power?Herbert was very obviously trying to make several philosophical statements regarding peace vs.
war (and the irony/futility of trying to enforce peace through military action), and religion - but the writing here is too choppy for it to seem more than awkward...
I have to admit not reading this for a long time.But I distinctly remember this book blowing my mind when I was younger. Herbert just sets up some of the most memorable and thought provoking scenarios in sci-fi.He's also great at getting inside the human mind. I just can't get enough of his stories like this one.
I loved this book. I've loved lots of Herbert's work, particularly Dune. This, however, is a lot shorter and might be tried by someone interested in the author but not willing to commit to one of his longer books or series.What particularly fascinated me was the operant notion of theological engineering, in other words, of controlling populations by the manipulation of their religious beliefs. Being in seminary at the time, the idea of teaching this seemed a lot more intriguing than what we were doing.
I first read this book by accident and after having read Dune. My brother gave me a crate of used sci-fi, haphazardly bought, as a birthday present. The Godmakers was just the first book I pulled from the box.All in all, it's worth reading, an enjoyable book. It's got the obvious Herbert watermarks; internal monologues are often layered to the point of being nearly disjointed but neatly evoke a sense of higher order intellectual complexity, reminiscent of the drugged internal dialogue found in the Dune series. I recommend it although not as highly as other Herbert.
Novela de aventuras en plan espía secreto que empieza muy curiosa, de 4 estrellas pero que el final rollo mesiánico metafísico sobre las religiones (presente siempre en las obras de Herbert pero especialmente pesado en esta). Tiene trazas de pulp en una de las historias y se ve que no les ha dado todo el desarrollo que podría. Entretenida y poco más.
Mindnumbingly boring, poorly written, sexist, and featuring characters that are either too flat or too unsympathetic to be enjoyed. I can't believe this novel was written by the same author whose Dune series I love so much. I have read the original four stories this novel has been expanded from, and while I kind of hated the stories too, they seem to make marginally more sense than the ending of the novel does.
To be honest, the only reason I didn't like the book was because I didn't really understand what the heck was going on most of the time.
A man in a shadowy government organization who prevents war from even being CONSIDERED on any planet, he's actually..a god?
And a planet that's trying to overthrow the government organization is the one that...made?
Yes he's a fantastic writer, yes his Dune series is a classic of literature...but even those are preeetty tough to get through.
I had the same realization with Asimov: just because they're some of the most successful writers of all time, doesn't mean I'm going to like EVERYthing they do...
Not much action. Mostly about some guy thinking deep thoughts about the universe and solving a few problems. 50% or more of the book was philosophical stuff which I mostly disagreed with.And the end of the book was about him finally using his "God" powers. Blah.
sick cover
Another interesting religious view of the world by Herbert. This story can get tedious at times, but there are always little nuggets of phrasing that make the read worthwhile.
Briefly: this book is far-future science fiction (as is Herbert's want) with the backdrop of a galaxy after long brutal "Rim Wars" in the throes of enforcing peace and re-incorporating lost planets into the collective while ensuring they do not re-ignite war.
The protagonist begins to understand certain powers and is summoned to the "godmaking" planet for his ordeal.By itself: good, heavy Herbert sci-fi from the golden ages.Frank Herbert published this book in 1972, after Dune Messiah but before Children of Dune and the second Dune trilogy.
This book had some interesting bits at the start.
Our hero had to determine whether planets were at all war-like.
But then it stopped being clever in the second half of the book when suddenly everything suddenly became about religion.
And not real religion, but lots of New Age-y talk about it.
That sounds about right, it certainly explains the nonsensical chapter headings.In the end, Herbert also turns the hero into a god.
I don't know what bugs me more, the incredible cheapness of ending a story like that or all the nonsensical blathering he used to describe it all.
I personally loved this book because of how it progressively changed.
Other than that the novel progresses very well and Frank Herbert chose a different style of writing for this novel than what I was accustomed to.His message was clear and he attempted to make this abundant when closing his novel.
Maybe this was an attempt cram in the theme in every portion of his novel but I still think this fit well and the portion in which this is mentioned.
I don't want to give away this theme because that would give away a fair portion of an amazing book that only a few people have every read other than me.
The book contains multiple successive plot arcs that do not coincide with each other, with main character Lewis Orne at the center of it.
Conversational points between characters are presented as pivotal and complex, while in reality the exchanges are based off of shallow, poorly thought out observations that sound philosophical rather than containing any genuine reason.
This book reads like it was written by someone who always wanted to be a philosopher but never had anything profound to say.This book, for me, gets a 3 out of 5.
The plot, however, is insufferable and the characters shallow.
Im a great fan of the Dune saga. (the original 6 books) "The Godmakers" rested on my bookcase for a long time, waiting for me to discover it and fall in love all over again with the Great Frank Herbert.This book has a lot of the themes that he expanded on in the Dune Saga. But it is unique in its own right. A true gem.
I´m a great fan of the Dune saga. (the original 6 books) "The Godmakers" rested on my bookcase for a long time, waiting for me to discover it and fall in love all over again with the Great Frank Herbert.This book has a lot of the themes that he expanded on in the Dune Saga. But it is unique in its own right. A true gem.
Interesting for sure. It doesn't read like one coherent story line, and I believe that's because this is the cobbling of four shorter stories. Still, if you like Dune (God Emperor) then you'll probably like this.
3 and a half stars, rounded up because it's Frank Herbert.
I found this read to be an interesting exploration into the new age philosophies of the 70s that carry on today. If you don’t feel proselytized during the journey, you should have a good time.
Good, fast, a little short, maybe. Has interesting references.
Frank Herbert brought his religious and political studies together again. Definitely will re-read it because I am sure I missed a lot the first time.
Små cheese men æ like Herbert, helt grei å kjapp å lese.
Not quite feeling this one, maybe later. Seems like classic SF with an omniscient narrative voice, I want something a little less distancing.
The goal is to avoid another intergalactic war.At the beginning of The Godmakers, we meet Lewis Orne, a new agent for Rediscovery & Reeducation.
It turns out that Orne has godlike powers and, in fact, he learns that he was made by humans who were experimenting with creating gods.At this point The Godmakers is no longer an interesting story of the exploits and adventures of a clever I-A agent, partly because we know Orne’s powers are supernatural, but mostly because Herbert’s story now becomes a dull rambling philosophical treatise about religion, the purpose of gods, ethics, war, consciousness, chaos and energy.
I've heard really good stuff about him, he's supposed to be a big name in sci-fi, so I wanted to check him out :)Although "The Godmakers" is quite a small book, it took me a little bit of time to finish.
The writing is not at all complicated, and not dull or boring either.Thinking about it now, I loved this style of writing, Herbert shows off lots of creativity, he's really thought out this universe really well, and eventhough he could've easily written a whole book on only one of these worlds, he chose to visit several, for a short storyline.
While home, he foils the conspiracy of breed of super-clever women to control galactic politics, discovers he's got psionic potential, and then undergoes a lengthy series of apotheosis procedures to literally become a god and teach humanity the true meaning of life and growth and reality, etc.Stuff that gets recapitulated in Dune:- The female breeding program/conspiracy, as the Bene Gesserit- Goofy religious mysticism, including the idea of designing religions for lesser peoples- The idea that enforcing false peace will only lead to greater wars- Spacey drug talk about false binaries, things requiring their opposites, infinite change, the impossibility of trying to impose thought matrices on the universe, etc.- The agents and their organizations are clearly dry runs of the BuSab in the ConSentiency seriesEnjoyable enough though, and a quick read.
My ratings on this Frank Herbert (yes, of Dune fame) novel have been fluctuating.
Not because my feelings on the book itself have changed but because I'm not sure how to fit it into my ratings system.
First, The Godmakers suffers from the same fate as other classic scifi books such as The Ship Who Sang and I, Robot.
It started life as a series of related stories and was later shoehorned into a not quite cohesive novel.
Although - if you have a soft spot for classic scifi, particularly of the philosophical variety, then give this one a try.
On the one hand, it’s an adventure novel, the story of Lewis Orne, a well-meaning, extremely bright young man who works for the Rediscovery and Reeducation Service trying to help planets reconnect with galactic civilization after the Rim Wars.
He discovers that all is not right on the planet Hamal and he helps to prevent a military debacle there, getting himself drafted into the more cynical Investigative Adjustment Service in the process.
The final third of the novel involves Orne going to Amel, a mysterious planet which houses the heads of most of the galaxy’s religions, both to find out why they are messing with galactic politics and to discover the limits of his own peculiar abilities.
On the way, his latent psi powers become active and he finds himself in a tricky situation on the final planet, where he finds he could very well be considered a God.Although published in 1972, this novel is a fix-up of four short stories published between 1958 and 1960 in the pulp science fiction magazines Astounding and Fantastic, and it shows in the writing.
Humans are, of course, superior to any alien race our hero comes across, and it is his duty to civilise them.There is not much connecting the stories, other than the recurring characters and their ongoing mission to keep the Galactic peace - the book would have worked just as well as an anthology collection of the individual short stories.Not recommended if you are looking for an enthralling, novel length story.

