https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1869.Nickel_and_Dimed
What many people seem not to understand is (among other things) that there is not only one kind of poor person (or only one kind of "working class" person), that poverty is not just a condition, but a cycle, and that contemporary poverty is not some ahistorical thing that just recently appeared when people started having poor money-management skills and learned how to make crack.
I'm sure that if poor people could afford real cocaine, they would buy that instead of crack, but alas, good cocaine is too expensive for poor drug addicts who make bad decisions.
In the book she says she was struggling to find housing, but she was postive that she would find it.
To this end she goes undercover as an unskilled laborer at three minimum wage jobs (waitress, Wal-mart employee and Merry-Maid) each in a different city, each for one month.Things I liked:The premise.
I know that working minimum wage jobs isn't fun, but couldn't you commit to more than a month?
I'm also a single healthy person with no debt or dependents and a working car, and I spend less than a thousand dollars a month sustaining my life style.
We got an election coming up and some folks are fussing about this country even entertaining about health care for EVERY American.
I have read in Donald Trump and Robert Kiyoski's book that the middle class in this country is shrinking and that we as a people should either stay poor, and that is food for serious thought.FOOTNOTE:I thank each of you whether you were with me or not in this review.
I never got this MUCH reviews on a book that is interesting to say the least.
I am still getting by in this country but Lord knows I am working hard to get away from it.
It has enjoyed tremendous popularity, and thus has misinformed a whole lot of people.In the late 1990s, the author (I've enjoyed some of her other books) decided to explore the challenges of low-wage American workers by pretending to live and work like one of them in three areas of the country.
(Her own car in the first city, a Rent-A-Wreck in the other two.) She decided that if she ran out of money & couldn't pay for shelter, she would declare the experiment a failure and go home, rather than try to live and work as a homeless person, as so many are forced to do.
Part of the whole getting-out-of-poverty thing is making some good choices – continuing an expensive nicotine habit isn’t one of them.
I never buy the whole thing that poor people can’t (read: don’t have the brain-power or self-control to) limit their reproduction.
Children are expensive and in having them (in a marriage or not) without thought to all the costs associated with merely keeping them alive, not to mention THEIR future, people are essentially dooming them to the same life and poverty that they currently experience.
Ehrenreich, a woman who has a Ph.D., goes "undercover" working low-paying jobs to see if one can earn a living with such work in America.One can't.She tries to make ends meet on the following jobs: waitressing, hotel housekeeping, Maid Service, nursing-home attendant, and Wal-Mart employee, often working two jobs at a time.This shocking exposé reveals the horrific conditions that the "working poor" toil under.
Okay, I suddenly got a Like on my non-review of this book, so I'm going to say a few words about it, which I've thought off and on for a while.I've seen very put-downish reviews here on GR about the book, and more so about the author.It's held that Ehrenreich was a fake, had no idea what the working poor face, was just trying to make a buck off them, the book totally discredited because she had money and could just walk away when she was finished, or if she got in trouble, yada yada.
I mean, I’m a bit of a worrier anyway – but mostly I worried that this would be the sort of book that my mother would hate.
So, when we create an underclass of untouchables, a caste that must work themselves into ill-health and who never have any hope of being able to make ends meet or of getting out of poverty – then that is a choice that we make and one that says as much about us as people as it says about us as a society.This book doesn’t offer simple solutions – in fact, besides her suggesting that people join together in Trade Unions and find ways to improve their pay and conditions, she makes virtually no suggestions at all.
When this book came out, I was working in a busy bookstore in a fairly small town.
While I was glad to see a popular book addressing the problems of the working poor, I couldn't help but feel like she'd taken a vacation in my life and then made a bunch of money writing a book about it, something she could only have achieved because she had already been in a position of privilege.
At any rate, I was standing at the counter one night when a well-dressed couple came in.
"Look, honey, that's the book!" she said.
I wanted to like this book.
But overall, as someone who actually has lived on minimum wage (even supporting a child on minimum wage back when minimum wage was scary low), this book comes up short in several ways.First of all, Barbara Ehrenreich has a horribly privileged, ivory tower view of how poor people must live.
She eats out instead of picking up beans and rice at the bulk section of the supermarket.
It's sort of like the movie Crash, which I also disliked intensely.
A book (or movie) with a message shouldn't bash you over the head with the message.
And looking at the reviews it’s clear this book is a Rorschach test for poverty, anyone poor enough to relate to the indignities she describes will invariable feel some resentment at the minimum wage martyr act, flagellating herself with your everyday life.
Ironically I read this entire book at work over the past two days, on U of M graduation weekend, where more than any other time we are just overflowing with demanding self-satisfied yuppies, so needless to say I kept the cover faced down to avoid ironic pity smirks from smug assholes, in retrospect I should have flaunted the cover openly, hoping liberal guilt might bring in some tips.
Ehrenreich should have read that story; it speaks more to the condition of the working poor than her book does.
In 1998 Barbara Ehrenreich - a political activist and writer - decided to try to live like the 'working poor.' She planned to obtain low paying jobs and see if she could live on the resulting wages.
In each location, she rented (or tried to rent) an apartment, took one or two low-paying jobs, and attempted to live on the wages she earned.
Unlike some low-income workers Ehrenreich allowed herself a car in each location, a rent-a-wreck - which also skewed her 'authentic experience' a bit.During her experiment Ehrenreich worked as a waitress; a caregiver for Alzheimer's patients; a hotel maid; a house cleaner; and a Wal-Mart ladies-wear employee.
If, however, you're hoping for an unbiased treatment of the life of the poor, a reasonable economic/policy analysis of poverty, or any sort of insight into American culture, then this book will be profoundly disappointing.
Further, she shows hidden disdain for the poor as well - insinuating that the only reason the poor might take pride in their work is because they've been duped by corporate interests, and denying the possibility that the poor might find any value in their jobs beyond their paychecks.The author ignores economic realities and the subtleties inherent in an interdependent system like the American Economy and puts forth ludicrously simplistic arguments of what American policy towards the poor should be.
To be a member of the working poor is to be an anonymous donor, a nameless benefactor, to everyone else.”The author goes undercover to see if she can make a living on a minimum wage job.
We have new books now, ones like this, but they don’t change a thing.The author takes you with her on her jobs as she listens to her co-workers and tries to struggle with working a 16 hour day.
Sociology reader for our week on Poverty in the U.S. Still, I remind students that this is the only author we read that doesn't have the "street cred" of a "real" sociologist, some "union card" (Ph.D., mostly) as a behavioral or social scientist, or social theorist or philosopher of some sort, as Ehrenreich is a...gasp....journalist!
(In short, a "Tea Party" legislator in NH was horrified when his son brought home a copy of this as a required course read in school, and they both agreed it was "un-American" to study poverty in the U.S..
Starting in 1998, Barbara Ehrenreich spent several months working low-wage jobs in different cities around the United States in an attempt to experience what it was like to be one of America's working poor.
It was fascinating to read about Barbara's waitress experience, her housecleaning and maid service, and the weeks she spent at Wal-Mart.* I raced through it in a little over a day, impressed with the writing and reporting.
Well, what kind of person gets hired for jobs that are low-paying.
What kind of person gets hired for jobs that are higher paying...ones who have prepared for those jobs.
People with low-paying jobs should use this book for warmth...by throwing it in the fire.But maybe IT WAS meant to be entertaining and informative.
Then the publisher should have hired someone who is a bit entertaining and/or a little informative.
It is a degrading and demeaning book to everyone who has ever held one of these jobs...and to the ones who currently work these jobs.
So, the author got paid to wait tables in Florida, clean homes in Maine, and organize clothes at Wal-Mart in Minnesota.
She thinks this is some grand undercover scheme and that she's some clever spy and is so excited with her own little game because she really does believe that she is somehow better than the other people working in low wage jobs.
"It's so difficult to believe that these people don't realize I'm actually educated and upper-class." The part about "Barbara" versus her mean lower-class Wal-Mart alter-ego "Barb" is outright offensive.
I read this book while in grad school, taking an anthropology class.I was also earning a whopping $5.83 an hour, and reading this book just made me grind my teeth.Totally fatuous piece of crap.
I felt like she was so patronizing and rude.
It seemed like yet another case of some stupid rich white person talking about the plight of the poor and the downtrodden, all while doing absolutely NOTHING to help alleviate it.
I'm so happy that Ehrenreich lived as a poor slob for a few months and then went back to her well-off, wasteful, middle-class lifestyle having learned nothing other than how to write sensational stuff to sell books.

Or, I would like to know if that 20% of working poor is all exactly similar to the people has associated with.
Also, I know that most of the working poor are good, honest, hard-working people, but we know that there are still many who abuse the system, and the way Ehrenreich talks, you’d think that the only ones abusing the system were the managers (“classic Marxist” attitude).
I just don’t agree with the way she thinks and her attitudes about some of the things that she found.
After I originally wrote this review in 2008, I spent nearly the entire next decade working in employment services helping individuals with barriers to employment (disabilities, mental illness, felonies) find and keep jobs.
You know, white Liberals, like the author herself.
Yet, during her saintly sojourn as a maid, actually berates those who have had the unmitigated gall to escape poverty and live like Rich People.
In the course of the book, she manages to make fun of Christians and Christ Himself, rich people, Wal-Mart shoppers, Wal-Mart employees, Latinos, the elderly, and a person in a wheelchair.
She openly calls things like Revivals and people-watching the poor her "entertainment".
Determined to find out how anyone could make ends meet on $7 an hour, she left behind her middle class life as a journalist except for $1000 in start-up funds, a car and her laptop computer to try to sustain herself as a low-skilled worker for a month at a time.
Despite the advantages of her race, education, good health and lack of children, Ehrenreich's income barely covered her month's expenses in only one instance, when she worked seven days a week at two jobs (one of which provided free meals) during the off-season in a vacation town.
Delivering a fast read that's both sobering and sassy, she gives readers pause about those caught in the economy's undertow, even in good times.
I am glad that somebody attempted this "experiment" of leaving their upper/middle class life to try to see what it was like to live like the working poor.
I the 15+ years since this book was written, I believe it is only harder to try to squeak out an existence - economically or otherwise - working for such low wages.
My eyes have been open and my points of view have changed dramatically the last couple years when it comes to my view point about this.
Our societal compassion and humanity is at an all time low!
Because I was working, I didn't qualify for anything like subsidized childcare or food stamps.
Nickel and Dimed On (Not) Getting By in America explores the world of low-wage workers in Florida, Maine and Minnesota.
Now, I'm no big feminist, but even I can see that the big problem is that the low-paying jobs the author explored were ones traditionally held by women: waitressing, nursing home aide, maid, and retail worker.
These jobs are not only low paying, they don't offer much room for advancement or leave them with much time or energy to pursue other options.
Raise your hand if you have ever worked a minimum wage job.
Barbara Ehrenreich attempts to describe how difficult it is to get by on minimum wage by taking on such jobs herself, but with several advantages – a car, a $1,500 starting fund, and a lack of dependent children.
(I don’t mention her education because she doesn’t use it when applying and higher education may actually prove a disadvantage if you are trying to work minimum wage jobs.) Thus, if it’s difficult for her, you can imagine how difficult it must be for people without those advantages.
I'm all for anyone who takes the time to shine a spotlight on the hellish existence of many folks with low-paying jobs.
Therefore, I do appreciate Barbara's book.
I spent many years in that life, and it's hard, very hard.
At times she came across as being 'better' than the folks she was working with, which kind of rubbed me the wrong way.
But, all in all, at least her book draws attention to the plight of the low-wage earner.Minimum wage jobs in the U.S. suck ...
big time ...
especially waitressing at any family style restaurant.
It takes a deal of courage and self respect to work at a low paying job and to support your family.
If it's all you can get you don't quit, you work and do your best turning in a good job, even in a (so called) menial job.What are my reservations about the book?
This of course slanted her view..and (please forgive me if you don't get this...or if you're Barbara Ehrenreich) it seemed to me that her "voice" was always a bit condescending about the people she was dealing with, the ones she was concerned about.
The book holds up an actual view of life even if a bit skewed.
I had my college degree, but due to the brevity of our residency, I applied for low end jobs (including Walmart, a process she describes) and worked a couple - one as a cleaning lady, just like in this book - and got to know a cleaning woman at our hotel very well.
I was pretty sure I was way better than them in my head.A mere six months later I was back in Utah, working a high end sales job that I kind of accidentally plopped into.
