https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/256004.Between_Parent_and_Child
Khaya: Oh. So I guess it would be more accurate to say that your books have helped my friends develop a philosophy of parenting that seems to work for them.Dr. Ginott: You have reframed your words to be a more specific, and therefore helpful and effective form of praise.
I have trouble being that nice when my child’s whining is getting on my nerves.Dr. Ginott: So you’re feeling some self-doubt about your own parenting and wondering whether that’s what’s causing this reaction.Khaya: Yes, although I also think it’s important for parents to be authentic, isn’t it?
Well, one of my main self-improvement goals for the past few years has been to improve my communication skills, especially with relation to conflict resolution and emotions.This book was mentioned in an advice column that has been entertaining me recently ("Dear Prudence" from Slate Magazine).
The concepts mentioned in the book intrigued me because they seemed to align with some things I have discovered, like that a fight often cannot progress or be resolved until the feelings are addressed somehow.This book really crystallized my half-formed theories on communication, emotions, and conflict resolution, and suddenly it all makes sense.
Tôi chỉ có một đề nghị đến các ba, mẹ rằng hãy đọc cuốn sách này để có thể hướng dẫn con trẻ lớn lên vững vàng, với lòng tự trọng, sự tự tin và tình yêu thương thấm đẫm.
May mắn là vẫn còn có thể chỉnh sửa kịp, sau khi đọc xong sách.- Tuy cuốn sách nói về việc dạy con, các ba mẹ sẽ thấy rằng chính các ba mẹ sẽ học được nhiều điều để sửa đổi chính bản thân, để trở thành một người tốt hơn, để có thể đảm trách một cách tự tin trọng trách làm cha, mẹ, một trọng trách vô cùng thử thách, nhưng cũng là một công việc đầy ý nghĩa và yêu thương.- Hãy luôn nhớ rằng, con trẻ vẫn chỉ là trẻ con, chúng sẽ làm chúng ta phiền lòng, chắc chắn là như thế.
No parenting book is perfect, but I can honestly say that this is the first book that has helped me change my behavior in less than a week of reading it.
I think the behavior change came very naturally because I understood my daughter's emotions so much better within a few chapters.
This book comes highly recommended and is helping me in more relationships than one.I just have to add, though, there are things I definitely don't agree with in the slightest when it comes to certain values suggested in the later chapters of the book.
Haim Ginott (wish I knew how to pronounce his name) was a mentor to John Gottman (Raising an Emotionally Intelligent Child) and Adele Faber (How to Talk so Kids will Listen...) and they drew heavily from his early work. The book is full of basic parenting gems, but I didn't necessarily agree with all of his suggestions and some of his examples weren't very realistic. I would recommend the Gottman and Faber & Mazlish books first.
cok cok iyi bir rehber olduğuna inandığım bir kitap. kitapta orneklenen diyaloglar,alternatif oneriler hem yol gosterici hem de uygulanabilir. Hatta 9 yaşındaki kızım bile arada sayfalarını karistiriyor.bu tür kitaplari okuduktan sonra yazilanlarim ne kadarini uygulayabilirim sorusu insanin kafasina takılıyor. Bu sebeple, bir defa okunup bir koseye birakilacak bir kitap degil. ara ara okunup, notlar alinacak bir kitap.öte yandan, duygulari gostermenin ve dile getirmenin ayip oldugu Türk toplumunda, bu duygulari anladigimizi belirten cumleler kurarken zorlanacagimizi ve kimo yerde de bu cumlelerim egreti duracagini dusunuyorum. Ancak,kendi davranislarimizi duzelttigimizde cocugumuzun davranışlarinin da duzelecegini bu kitapta da belirtiliyor. bu sebeple onerileri denemeye deger buluyorum.
Reading a book on parenting is the easy part but applying its principles is quite another.
Yet with this book, I could start applying Ginotte's techniques from the moment I started reading and I found them to be extremely effective.
I now find it easier to communicate with my two-year old and in particular, to handle her emotional outbursts in a more mature and empathetic way.
The book is full of practical advice and real-life examples and is very easy to read, especially for an exhausted mom.
Between Parent and Child is a wonderful tool to help you become a better, more empathetic and effective parent.
This book I read in one of my child/family classes in college. This is my favorite of all the texts I read in this area of study. I highly recommend this book to every parent! Easy and fast reading.
This book had some good points, but it was quite preachy, and used "should" language a lot.
It has good points on how to relate with your children.
Some of it does not fit with my value system (for example, how permissive we should be with our children about premarital sex.) And I know that if I was in the middle of raising kids this book would definitely cause a lot of guilt.I do like what he says about stating emotions for children instead of asking them to come up with the labels.
3. Between Parent and Child: Yes, it's dated, but I love, love, love Haim Ginott.
Here's a famous quote of his, that I continue to use: “If you want your children to improve, let them overhear the nice things you say about them to others.” It's a classic, more suited for older kids (over 3 or so) than younger ones.
Here's one of a bajillion review/summaries out there: "Perhaps Haim’s genius was helping parents capture the meaning behind children’s words and deeds.
There is nothing quite as helpful for solving parenting problems as the feeling of parents and children working together.
Şimdiye kadar okuduğum en yalın, en somut, en gerçekçi ebeveyn kitabı. Çok tavsiye ederim.
Okuduğum en iyi ebeveyn kitabı dersem abartmış olmam sanırım.https://yagizlahayat.wordpress.com/20...
Много полезно четиво! Сред океана от книги за възпитанието на децата е много трудно да се ориентираме в нещо наистина полезно и практично, но и, разбира се, научно обосновано. Препоръчвам на всички, не само на настоящи родители, защото в тази книга се съдържат съвети за пълноценно общуване не само с деца, но и с възрастни. Единствената ми забележка тук е непрецизната коректорска работа, което прави лошо впечатление.
Să-i spui copilului ce simte, cam asta era ideea de bază, să îi înțelegi emoțiile să poți crea o legătură solidă cu el, să nu judeci și să nu oferi soluții tu. Dar oare știi mereu ce simte?
His approach kicks the casual, reactionary, parent-child dialogue rather out the door, and it took me a little while to really understand what he was saying.The biggest concept I took from his book is summarized like this: parents provide physical first aid for physical injuries, but we *also* need to provide *emotional* first aid for emotional injuries.
Ginott also talks about the importance of kids feeling our empathy.
I was thinking, "What parent and child out there has EVER talked to each other like that?"And then there were approaches that I completely disagreed with.
For example, Ginott suggests that when a parent and child go to another home to visit that the parent needs to be the child's emotional support in a different environment; not the enforcer of rules.
First of all, as a host, I don't feel comfortable reprimanding someone else's kid - that's the parent's responsibility.
So, instead of saying, "You're so smart!", you'd say, "You put that puzzle together quickly!" Then the child makes thir own inference, 'Mom thinks I'm smart.' This helps children develop a positive image of themselves and not have to live up to character judgements they may or may not believe about themselves.3)He also said it's O.K. to get angry, which was a relief for me.
When you're angry, you state how you feel and what you see without criticizing the child ('I' statements instead of 'you').
BUT I highly recommend "Liberated Parents, Liberated Children," also in my book list, which is early 1960s, I think, and written by some of the mothers in one Ginott's groups.
That one is a little dated, but not too bad, and it retains a lot of the great things Ginott taught them.
It is not a destination; it is a manner of traveling...Living, by necessity, involves delay between desire and fulfillment, between plan and realization...when a child is frustrated, a parent need not go to pieces.
When a child cries, it is not necessary for mother to perform somersaults to bring back his smile.
As a parent, I learned a lot from this book about keeping cool with my kids in stressful situations.
We've heard these messages before: "Use 'I' messages." Say, "When you scream, it hurts my ears and makes me angry," instead of "Stop screaming right now!" Say, "You wish we could have ice cream now, and it makes you sad that we have to have lunch first," instead of, "No, we can't have ice cream, because I said so."I'm not perfect at using these techniques.
Nevertheless, it has given me a vocabulary to use and a goal to strive for when caring for my own children.

I have often wondered what is the "right way" to respond to a child who is misbehaving and/or upset.
Dr. Ginott answered my questions -- plus the many more that comes with having a child.
Dr. Ginott teaches us how to communicate not just with our children, but also with other adults.
This has been a very eye-opening experience to learn that the way I communicate with others, especially those who are closest to me, may not be the most effective.
Dr. Ginott has a great way of teaching through example in his book.
It's a great read and a book that I use constantly.
Liam's preschool's book club book.
Definitely eye-opening and I couldn't help reflecting on how my parents didn't communicate with me well growing up.
It has already made me talk to Liam differently not to mention my students.
While it sounds easy, in the moment, it's sometimes hard to remember.
Reflecting your child's feelings is key.
Acknowledging their wishes and desires is a must.
Every phrase we use has to be in the name of humanity and creating a human being so no judging, criticizing or nagging.
I am also curious about Ginott's other books, Between Teacher and Child and Between Parent and Teenager.
Alright, so I needed to adjust my expectations of this book a little bit.
I found that it didn't end up really helping me figure out my parenting role as "disciplinarian" but was *very* helpful at guiding how to have conversations.
To be emotionally intelligent with our children and to validate their feelings without validating their behavior.
But I didn't find it so helpful in terms of curbing, or stopping unwanted behavior, so that's I guess where the star comes off for me.
It's a lot more about emotions than it is about behavior.
Still very important (and very helpful) just not what I expected when I picked up the book.
Patiko, atrodo, elementarus pasiūlymas tiesiog paprastai reaguoti į vaiko jausmus - juos įvardinti, atspindėti. Tas tinka ir bendravime su suaugusiais. Knyga maloniai ir lengvai skaitėsi iki kol priėjau prie lytinio vaikų švietimo. Pasiūlymai skatinti vaikų lytinius vaidmenis: neskatinti mergaitės užsiimti agresyviu sportu ar berniuko švelnumo, mokyti darbų pagal lytis. Taip pat, mergaitiškas berniukas priskirtas prie turinčio problemų, kurias jau reikėtų spręsti su specialistais. Tėvų vaidmenys vaiko gyvenime irgi diferencijuojami pagal lytis. Tad pabaiga nuvylė.
This book is among the classics and for good reason. Dr. Ginott provided insight on respecting a child as a person and training the child to deal with their own emotions. I have gained insight on responding not only to children but also adults in a more responsive way. I am looking forward to making use of with of his processes in how I respond to my child and also my wife. Short read and powerful in content.
There were very interesting and useful parts to this book, particularly first 5 chapters or so. However, as the edition I read was published in 1965, the latter half of the book was very outdated in terms of male-female roles and expectations in society, as well as the author's perceptions about sexual identity and growth.
This is a recent edition of an older book and I've also read his book to teachers. I very much appreciated his approach to communication and really needed his perspective. I think it is a fantastic read.
I had to read this in college. It is based on positive, goal based child rearing. The focus in on how to communicate effectively to children. Since Dr. Ginott passed away, the new editor is Dr. H. Wallace Goddard, who is LDS and is a regular contributor to Meridian Magazine.
This is one of the best parenting/psychology books out there. He's an icon. Also worth reading: How to Talk So Children Will Listen and Listen So Children Will Talk b/c authors are students of Ginott's philosophy.
الكتاب جا في وقتهممتع جدا وفيه امثلة حلوة اويوعلى قد ما الكتاب حلو على قد ما حسيت قد ايه التربية صعبة اوي لاننا م عشان نربي لازم الاول نربي نفسنا ونتعود على الاسلوب الراقي في التعامل مع ولادنا
