https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10996342-the-art-of-fielding
Chad Harbach's The Art of Fielding is 2/3rds strong but maybe 100 pages too long.
So while I can recommend the novel, with reservations, I can't make the four star leap.The storyline revolves around five characters and readers shouldn't be misled into thinking, as the inside cover description seems to imply, that Henry is the star and the four other characters lesser lights.
I bet you expect me to say, “No, you'll like the book even if you don't know much about baseball.” But I won't.
You won't get it.So I liked The Art of Fielding and expect the novel to garner many end of the year prizes and, possibly, a film deal leading to a serious, oscar-worthy movie.
People love to talk about the "great" books that aren't good reads.
But The Art of Fielding falls under a third category: A book I didn't like so much that I wanted to keep reading it.I wanted to like it, I did.
but it felt like a book that took 10 years to write and not in a good way.
) but instead of creating complicated characters who have to deal with the consequences of their actions or characters who don't deserve the abundance of good luck that comes their way and know it, his characters are so one-dimensional that as much as I wanted to care about them, I couldn't.
(I almost want to say that, excepting the baseball, this is the book Eugenides wanted to write.) Literature is prominent in both, but here it has a lighter touch (less pretentious, one might say).
Though I've read Moby-Dick, it's been awhile and I'm sure I missed some of the references to it in this novel set in a fictional Wisconsin college where Melville is important to its existence.
The fictional author of the book-within-this-book is Aparicio Rodriquez, whose name evokes that of the great shortstop, Luis Aparicio.
Man, I really didn't want to like this book.
Harbach got paid like a bajillion dollars for his very first novel.
Number 2) I don't like n+1 magazine, of which he is the co-founder.
I would honestly rather read Cat Fancy.Number 3) Harbach wrote an article about MFA vs.
I was ready to unleash the critical beast and be confirmed in my belief that all hyped literary things are, at heart, overrated, particularly new "it" books written by new "it" writers.
But it's great storytelling, particularly when it comes to the friendship/rivalry of the two baseball players at its core.
The main protagonist, Henry Skrimshander, is a young baseball player and college student.
His bible, a beat up book called The Art of Fielding, is full of philosophy and practical pointers on how to become the best player he can be.
But this novel is not a baseball book per se.
Yes, baseball is part of the setting as is the campus of a small liberal arts school in Wisconsin called Westish College, but the book is not focused on baseball or college.
In many books, the reader is lucky to get one well-developed character.
It is not a good thing to be a thinking-man's shortstop and to experience Doubt.Henry, the shortstop in this readable but cliched novel, is placed in that moment in Prufrockian terms by the author.
While Henry the shortstop jumps from Freshman to Junior year in one sentence, the catcher takes a chapter to hold the last letter of rejection or acceptance in his hands, finally letting it open from the steam of the whirlpool.
But we, of course, don't learn whether he was accepted for another several chapters, such is the writing device at play.
I LOVE this novel.
I was convinced that "The Marriage Plot", a kindred book-- same time, same themes, same environment-- by Eugenides was the definitive college novel of our times.
You care so SOOOOO much for every single fully-realized character, all five of them (I actually developed a crush for Mike, felt horrible for "protagonist" Henry, empathized with silly Pella...)--this is a novel to definitely remain safely within the canon.
Saying that the novel is dead, that literature sucks nowadays--terrible mistake on your part!
It is THAT superb, my literature-loving friends.
Read it.
It's the best book I've read all year.
This book is about a baseball team from a fictitious Wisconsin college, Westish, which seems like a mix of Ripon and Lawrence.
There are also pet peeves that I have about coming of age, college-located novels that this book brings to the fore.Here's the good news.
Also this book plays both light and earnest with a sexual relationship between a faculty member and a college student.
Also like many good first novels, the author doesn't quite know how to end his story and has use a "how convenient for the author" event to pull the plug.
This may happen in college, but as these two characters have been drawn, it just doesn't ring true- and the consequences of the liaison seem rather convenient for the narrative.---> page 429: "Melville had once called America a seat of snivelization; what Affenlight wanted was a seat of swivelization." This is what passes for "humor" in The Art of Fielding: strained, self-congratulatory literary reference that is not only inorganic but also wastes both words and the reader's time.Other demerits: a dramatically timely death; cardboard characterizations of every figure on the fringes of the narrative; abandonment of subplots; "cliffhanger" chapter breaks; withholding of information sheerly for dramatic effect; obvious dialogue.
As a HUGE fan of the game, I really enjoyed this baseball themed novel centering around Henry Skrimshander.....his glove named Zero and his desire to be the best.....to someday play Shortstop for the STL CARDINALS.....But this story surprised me.....there's so much more to it than just baseball.....Without divulging any secrets, I'll just say.....the novel intertwines friendships and relationships among five flawed characters who struggle to find their way in life and follow their dreams.Love how this heartfelt story comes together in the end.
So, for those people who really do not like baseball 'at all' ---(but are still open to reading this GEM of a story) ---you might surprise yourself and expand your interest in the game itself.
Life--friendships--all types of relationships --(male bonding at its best & at its worse) --love--power-- appreciation for classic literature--wisdom --ethics--challenges--courage--fear--forgiveness--honor--leadership--The Characters: Mostly Men...
I don't play Baseball --nor am I a baseball fan ---but this is *NOT* just a GUYS BOOK.
Me: I like all types of stories --(I'm not 'THAT' picky) ---but there is something 'extra' special being a woman ---reading a book filled with lots of male testosterone.
I honestly thought, "I want one more day to delve into this world." But then, 20 minutes later, there I was, picking it back up to reach its final page (and discovering a wholy satisfying resolution, which rarely happens for me with most books).This is one of those novels where the characters don't just live on the page.
If you've made it this far in this review (god bless you), and if you love "Art", you owe it to yourself to find a way to read the Vanity Fair story that details how this book came to be.
And let’s have a ball while we’re at it!Part baseball book, part campus tale, and part Aspiring Great American Novel, Chad Harbach’s The Art Of Fielding is one of those highly readable, absorbing tomes that creates an entire fictional world you believe in and want to spend lots of time in.Naturally gifted shortstop Henry Skrimshander (see note about names below) is discovered and recruited to Westish College, a small liberal arts school in Wisconsin on the western shore of Lake Michigan.
At a few points in the book I thought that the author might have been trying to write Infinite Jest-lite, but that may just be the kids in school playing sports element that is common to each book; but the 'main' (I don't know which character I'd say is really the main character, they all get pretty equal footing, but this one seems to be the pivot the story revolves around) character, Henry, has the same empty shell like quality that graces Hal in IJ, but these are probably just some similarities that weren't intended.
You need only to contrast the relationship between Owen and Affenlight and Henry and Schwartz to see that love between two people (I want to say to men but even writing that fells like I am giving the wrong impression of the book, which just goes to show, I guess, how hard it is to pin down and names complex, complicated emotions) can take any number of forms.There were images that made me put the book down and think on them awhile, there were uncomfortable moments where my heart wanted to break for Henry, there were many, many moments, in fact.
The sole main female character in the book was handled well and believeably.
But I think it is simply that kind of book.
Affenlight finds more love in his life than Bill Stoner, thank god, and when the novel begins, he's fallen for a boy named Owen Dunne, another baseball player, and Henry's roommate.
You could never quite tell who possessed it." I admired so much of the writing in this flawed but heartfelt book that I would recommend it to people who didn't know a thing about baseball.
You don't need to know anything about the game to admire writing like this: Baseball was an art, but to excel at it you had to become a machine.
Near its opening lies one of the most absurd scenes in "serious" fiction: Owen, a college baseball player, reads French literature in the dugout as he's about to go on-deck to bat in the game then lustily hits a sacrifice fly after which he swoons over the opposing pitcher.C'mon, gimme a break!
Why publish previews that mislead the reader into believing that this novel centers on the game of baseball*?
There’s a favorite that certain sports books seem to evoke, too: “You don’t have to be a fan of the game to like this.” Since I am a fan, I can’t speak with any authority for those who are not, but my guess is that for The Art of Fielding, it’s at least partially true.
Harbach instead accepted $665K from Little, Brown because they offered him the chance to work with Michael Pietsch, David Foster Wallace’s editor for Infinite Jest.I liked this one a lot, though I can’t quite see it as 5 stars.
So after about five paragraphs, my impression of this book was "Wow, this is seriously a Dude Book." And I wondered if you could enjoy it if you didn't totally love baseball, or even care about baseball much at all.
The primary theme of this book is Relationships Between Men. How they can toe the line between love and friendship and sexuality and how the deepness of relationships between men is pretty much the deepest most important thing there is, and chicks just don't get it.

“The Art of Fielding,” Harbach’s debut novel, has that Iriving-collegiate chill to it, though it’s coming off the Great Lakes rather than an East Coast bay.
Henry is discovered by Mike Schwartz while playing summer ball.
He gives Henry the hard sell, sends for his transcripts, goes suave on Henry’s doubting father and gets the kid enrolled at Westich College.
When agents and scouts start dangling dollar signs in front of him, Henry makes a bad throw, the first presumably of his life, and everything goes haywire.
It’s that he is so fun to read about that you don’t want to grow up too fast.
Don’t be put off by the sports content; I could not possibly be less interested in competitive sports.
After such a stunning debut, who knows what heights Harbach will reach?*That the sport is merely a metaphorical window onto life Harbach confirms explicitly in the novel: “this formed the paradox at the heart of baseball...an apparently pointless affair, undertaken by people with a special aptitude, which sidestepped attempts to paraphrase its value yet somehow seemed to communicate something true or even crucial about The Human Condition.”
Well, this story sure was lovely.None of the normal caveats—Franzen comparisons, n+1, a story of privilege, another white male penning Americana—takes away from the highlights of this book: its warmth, breadth, sense of control, poetry, and its many engaging arcs.
I was reading other books while I read this one and I kept discarding them because how can you read YA when “The Art of Fielding” is waiting to resolve itself?
It has been said that "baseball is life." Whether or not you agree with this statement, for the characters in Chad Harbach's fantastic new novel, The Art of Fielding, baseball may not be life, but it certainly is at the crux of their lives.
Henry Skrimshander is a scrawny, aspiring baseball player whose effortless talent during a summer league game attracts the attention of Mike Schwartz, an athlete at Westish College, located on the shores of Lake Michigan.
Mike gets Henry enrolled at Westish and becomes his mentor, coach, torturer, and biggest advocate, and Henry finds himself turning into a superstar, being mentioned as an early draft pick in the major leagues.
The fictional Westish College, a small liberal arts school on the shores of Lake Michigan where much of the story is set, has a statue of Melville, who once visited the school, and its baseball team is called the Westish Harpooners.The book starts with the momentous discovery of the Harpooners’ team captain, Mike Schwartz, of Henry Skrimshander, a shy and scrawny shortstop.
So I liked this book. Wasn't quite sure at first but it's good. Centers around a college baseball player and the people connected to him.
I loved this book.....I loved the feel of it.....I loved the literary atmosphere of it.....the college intellectualist of it.....I loved the story of baseball, but most of all I loved the story of life,it's joys, sorrows,and unexpected turns and twists, and it's complications.I have always thought about what poem, or story to have read at my funeral???....after reading this book,you might figure out what I have decided to have read at my funeral.....no rush on that event....but this book inspired me,and pointed out to me how life goes,and how it goes on....long after we are gone.Read this book and enjoy!
At times, it felt inconveniently long as I struggled following the thoughts of the five characters as they simply do foolish things (that we all sometimes do at some parts of our lives anyway) that you would not plan or even think of doing.
These lines are not your Hallmark-type of beauty but they are nice to ponder with and I guess this is the main reason why I liked this book.But then had I read Moby Dick and if I were familiar with American baseball, I would have rated this with at least 4 stars.
I expect to read this again many times.The book reviews tell you that this about a college baseball team which develops into a winning team under the defensive prowess of the star shortstop Henry Skrimshander.
Henry, a kid from small town and family who had never been to college and has self doubts is just one of many characters that the reader comes to know as a real person.Mike Schwartze is the team captain and excellent student who plans to go to law school even though everyone tells him he would be a natural coach.
The description of a soul by Owen in an informal memorial at the end of the book is one of the best pieces of writing I've ever read.And the plot was just great.
God, do I need something good to read!The first two chapters of this book (I got an advance copy at work) gave me such high hopes.
Funny, a good sense of place and time, a knowledge of baseball (and a clear love for the sport), interesting 3D characters....I actually handed it to my husband, who is even more of a baseball fan than I, and said, "Here.
Blah.Harbach can write (that's why I gave this one extra star), but what's the point of being a good writer if you have no sense of the poetry beyond words, the poetry that is story (and please don't confuse story with soap opera)?
