https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/852460.Fix_It_and_Forget_It_Cookbook
There are many things that annoy me about this cookbook.
The most annoying thing is that the author/editor includes several recipes for the same thing but with (sometime very) slight alterations.
I mean honestly, do you really want to figure out which of 5 beef stew recipes is the one for you when the ingredient lists look fairly similar?
I hate that there are no pictures- I like to see if what I'm cooking is looking at all like it should.
Also- if the picture looks good, then I'm more tempted to try the recipe.
I'm glad I checked this out at the library and didn't buy it.
I certainly won't be buying it!
I love recipes for my slow cooker, but this cookbook is quite frustrating. It is set up by readers submitting their recipes. There are multiple recipes of the same kind, but different ways and ingredients. There are no pictures to show what your food is going to look like after cooking....and with a slow cooker I think that is important because people don't really want to eat something that looks like the dogs dinner. This book seemed like a precursor to the website Allrecipes, but without the pictures and ratings of people that have made the recipe.
I wish "can of cream of mushroom soup" wasn't the key ingredient in almost every recipe. Adding MSG to my food isn't something that interests me.
Some of the recipes call for an awful lot of Velveeta, but if you snoop around enough, you will find a handful of yummy and healthy recipes that are easy to make.
Nothing is a whole lot easier than throwing a bunch of stuff in a slow cooker and getting a good meal out of it. For great recipes from a classic slow cooker book...check this one out.
The Fix-It and Forget-It Cookbook is a great resource for those of us who can't always fix meals in the afternoon.
I don't use the crockpot more than once a week or so, but for those days when a slow-cooked meal is called for, this is a very helpful cookbook.
One of the nice aspects of this volume is that it is, in a sense, a "populist cookbook," based on recipes submitted by people throughout the country.
However, for those for whom the crockpot makes sense and serves their needs, this is a very helpful resource and is worth considering for their cookbook library.
An absolutely terrific cookbook offering plenty of easy, yummy recipes specific to slow cookers.
The ingredients are not esoteric and the recipes are easy to follow.
The recipes were created by real cooks in real kitchens, as opposed to chefs in test kitchens who never seem to know or care what real people eat and that real people have lives outside the kitchen.
Finally, the index is plenty comprehensive, so if you feel like making something that involves mostly potatoes, or steak or beans, no problem.
This is the sort of cookbook that winds up splattered with sauces and stuff, because it gets used over and over and over again.
This is a perfect cookbook for those wanting to begin doing slow cooker cooking. The beef stew recipe on page 71 is a favorite especially during the winter months here in Minnesota. I've got two teens who have different tastes, the tater tot casserole on 116 is easy and agreeable for everyone. Having used my first slow cooker for 20 years it finally wore out and the purchase of the Hamilton Beach Programmable Slow Cooker makes this type of cooking a breeze.
This is presently my favorite cookbook. Winter time is a great time to use the crock pot to prepare wonderful stews, try yummy new spaghetti sauce recipes, even do a fragrant chicken without turning on the oven. I don't think I would eat properly without my helper book. I am usually able to feed myself for a whole week, or freeze part of a dish for another time. As an exceptionally busy person, constantly on the go, this savory cookbook is a godsend.
Even though some of the recipes are inedible for me as they are, because of all the dairy products, reading them helps me understand what proportions of ingredients to use when I'm making up my own slow-cooker creations, usually with excellent results.
This cookbook has been very valuable to me as far as teaching me how to convert recipes to the slow cooker But as far as following the recipes in here, for the most part I have to decline -- some people are trying to eat light, you know?
This is easily our favorite crock pot cook book at my house.
Many of the recipes have very simple preparation which can be performed in a modicum of time even by the most unskilled kitchen dullards like myself :)Unlike many crock pot cookbooks we've seen where bland food seems to be the norm, a number of recipes from this one are in fact quite flavorful and tasty.
We just made the 'Irish Beef Stew' (Not sure REALLY how Irish it is, but it's yummy :).Can't recommend this book highly enough for people who want to do more cooking at home but are short on time and/or kitchen skills.
I use this cookbook all the time! One of the best things I love about it is that there are often several recipes for the same meal. If I don't have all the ingredients for a specific version, I can take different parts from similar recipes. An example would be sloppy joes. There are a few different versions and I can mix and match ingredients. I am not the most creative or ambitious cook, so this cookbook has been fantastic!
You do have to becareful, because some of this will burn if you fix it and leave for work all day. If you come home at lunch & turn it on, you are good to go. OR if you have great kids who come home from school that can get your already prepped pot out of the frig & tun it on... A few of the recipes, like the stews with more sause/gravy/soup are easy fixes... Just not the pasta dishes or the ones that actually bake something.
I pulled a couple of recipes that I will be trying soon. While many were duplicated, such as chili, it was interesting to see so many variations. If anything this book gave me the confidence to throw that extra (fill-in-the-blank) into the crockpot whenever I am trying for something new!
I liked that the recipes were food I would actually cook. Fairly simple food without a lot of complication or obscure ingredients. ON the downside though, it does read like one of those church bazaar cookbooks where there are 12 different recipes for sloppy joes or something like that.
This book is so easy and useful. It's not super healthy. It's not complicated but it's very functional. I love it. Definitely demystified my crockpot for me. I give this book to college kids just starting out.
I use this cookbook at home. It is my go-to for quick, easy, delicious meals.
I’ve had this cookbook in my collection for a while. There are so many good, easy recipes in here! It’s one recipe book I’ve turned to many a time with delicious results. Check it out!
This was a random find at a garage-like sale.Just a dollar, which is good, because for some reason my partner and I didn't think to look at the ingredients in the recipes. There's a lot of questionable suggestions, at least for my dietary requirements (medically needed.)Not a cookbook for anyone with MCAS/MCAD/MCS - at least, not if you want to follow the recipe exactly.That being said, there are a ton of good ideas in here, with a bunch of substitution work, and it opened my eyes to the sheer array of things one can apparently do with a slow cooker.
Was home visiting my parents over the holidays several years ago. While there, my dad made the best stroganoff dish. Turns out the recipe came from this cookbook. Grabbed a copy for myself. Have made a number of recipes. Most are pretty simple, as is generally the case with crockpot cooking. Lacks pictures, multiples of similar recipes, but recipes are plentiful. Nothing fancy.
I had high hopes for this book, but many of the recipes seem to be right out of 1970. Too many canned junk ingredients. Many recipes repeated with only slight variations. The soup section seems the strongest.
It is okay
I love it
lots of similar recipes. not really anything new.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
Comes in handy for a few key recipes. Lots of the same. Is my go to for my crockpot favorites.
There are some decent recipes but nothing earth shattering.
Great recipes for a crock pot!!
Now this cookbook may have 3 different receipts for the same recipe, for instance chicken cacciatore, however that is nice because it allows you to look at what you have on hand and work with that so it is a nice perk to this cookbook.
I also like the simplicity of the recipes in this cookbook.
Some cookbooks are filled with recipes that require way too many ingredients and ingredients you aren't going to use again, but this cookbook I find uses ingredients that I normally keep on hand anyways or are inexpensive which is nice.
The problem for me is doing the planning so that I get the stuff in the crockpot in the morning before I leave for work..I am always glad when I do, though!
Another issue is that oftentimes, the crockpots cook alot faster and hotter these days so if I put it in before I leave for work,by the time I get home, the stuff is overdone bigtime!
However, if I go home at lunch and put it it, that works for alot of recipes..so I am going to try to start doing that some.
