https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/228194.The_Green_Mile_Part_2
This part was better than the first part. The writing was better and more smooth and the way flashbacks were used was awesome. That mouse is something else and lets you think of many ideas and scenarios.
I'll wait to rate this until I read it in its entirety.
The death penalty is a yicky thing, something I don't really agree with, so this setting is already unsettling from the start.
The characters - good ones, bad ones - they all come alive as creatively and realistically constructed.
It's easy to despise Percy, it's easy to love the mouse that comes alive and keeps a piece of the men in this cold, horrible place delighted.
It would be hard to find much joy in Cold Mountain unless you entered sick to begin with, but that may be the mouse's greatest trick of all.
A dark silhouette, on a small canvass, impressive in size and scope, alive with its many occupants, just a block off Victoria park, where we would stroll in the evening, all too often in the company of our 3 cats, unleashed but decidedly with us, as we sang our little ditties and inhaled the atmosphere about us.The bat tree stood on a small raised patch of earth, reinforced by wood, sitting much higher, than the land about it.
Cliffhanger! Ook weer lekker vlot geschreven. Zo ga ik mijn Reading Challenge wel halen!
3.5 stars
When I was excited to read the series as it was meant to be read: in installments, I forgot that meant I would have to deal with cliffhangers.
I'm no longer excited.
Stephen King really knows how to write characters.
They're not just on a page, they feel like real people that you can see because they're so well written.
In part 2, we're still getting to know the characters and the backstory.
The other part of me is annoyed that I thought reading the installments instead of the collection was a good idea.
We meet more of the characters. I really enjoyed the Mr. Jingles (mouse) part. 2nd book leaves on a cliff hanger. Can't wait to read more tomorrow.Listened to this on audio and also read along in physical book. It really annoyed me when the narrator changed words which happened quite frequently making it hard to follow along.
I'm loving this so much!
E dopo il primo libro diciamo di introduzione ecco che di colpo si alza l'asticella. La descrizione dell'esecuzione del capo, di delacroix e il topo, il pazzo wharton: un vero capolavoro
In the first book, you saw John Coffey going back and forth going to the Mile, and this book, it goes back to describe prisoners that were there before him, and things that weren't in the movie.
For instance, in this book, it describes the coming of Edward Delecroix into the death row, and an encounter with Percy where he beat this man with a knight stick on the way in.
The part where Percy came after the mouse was more of a memory, and instead of Paul talking to Percy about the incident, it was actually Dean in the book, which was a continuing thing from the first book.
Really intriguing but depressing at the same time. I absolutely love how it makes you think about how we work in this world, how life is and how it can be so easily taken away. Loving this series so far!
This second installment focuses less on John Coffey and more on several of the other prisoners awaiting death on the Green Mile. King leaves this book off with a cliffhanger and I can only imagine the impatience of the readers back in 1996 having to wait a whole month to find out what happens next.
Shit! I'm not going to be able to hold to reading only one of these per month if they're all going to end like this one did. #stressed

I really enjoyed mr. Jiggles in this episode. We got to see his smarts (something that not all normal mouses would usually have). When it comes to the book's flaw, it is the same as last episode's: the urinal infection. This time, we got to see different shades of Percy Wetmore and that was appreciated. But I have to say, the thing I preferred the most in the book was it's ending. For those reasons I give this a 3.50 out of 5 stars.
Man do I feel for Paul and his infection. That just sounds horrid and to me its like him having a taste of what us girls go through with the monthly cures. Anyway it was getting pretty damn annoying reading about that mouse but I guess it was ok. Kinda of dragging but the ending was damn sure brilliant. Gave you more excitement for a last chapter than people think they can get. Can't wait to read the next one and see where Mr. King will take us!
Wow! What a cliffhanger. My idea to leave a couple of days between each book didn't work, as I had to go straight on to the next one to find out what happened. A brilliant read and that good old Stephen King horror is creeping into the plot.
Si no fuese porque tengo los seis libros, estaría llorando. Este final me dejó con ganas de empezar a leer el siguiente YA (y si no fuese porque mi mejor amigo me acaba de llamar, lo haría). Y por cierto, amo a Cascabel
Mali intermezzo koji nas približi likovima na zelenoj milji i pripremi za događaje koji će usljedit. Stranica juri za stranicom dok ne dojuri do kraja i nastavit će se... natpisa.
Powerful and makes you cry.
Okay, I fell in love with that darling little mouse.After having some doubts as to whether or not I would enjoy The Green Mike after reading Part One, Part Two blew me away. I fell further into the story and enjoyed reading about the inmates on the mile. I’m warming up to the characters more, although Percy is still just as mean and sadistic as ever (I really hope that he gets his just desserts).Can’t wait to continue on with Part Three.
I thought that this was a interesting book although it was mainly about one situation. Some of the character names are, Brad Dolan, Paul(the uncle), Percy, and Delacroix . This book is based on romance, a thrill, and friendship. The main conflict is over a mouse, and the mouse is just like a mocking bird because mockingbirds are innocent and all they do is sing, their harmless , and some of the characters didn't always get along with this mouse.
I am so addicted to this story! This second book is more back story and not a ton of action but it is written so well that I can't wait for the next installment. Paul talks about the mouse.. Mr. Jingles- a rodent that thinks he is a dog. One of the prisoners has warmed up to the mouse and he is becoming an important character on Death Row.
Not sure I'll have much to say about them individually. It seems odd to go through them so fast, but that's what happens with a serialization I guess. Seems odd to think that if it was a full book I'd only be 1/3 into it too.
Every bit as good, better, than the movie, and the movie was spectacular. This series of books is King at his very best. Not horror, nor genre specific really, just wonderful engrossing characters, a great story, great build-up. Just, everything, so good.
These are such good chapter books! I wish Mr. King had done more this way. It was very hard not to flip the page on over to the next one, but I promised myself...one a month or so. Waiting....waiting...
2.5 stars
Stephen King is a genius. He puts a story together like no other author.
I didn't like this book. It's not very interesting.
Still a bit slow in the begining but the middle to end brought me back in.
