https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15717943-hopeless
It gives you a taste of where the story is headed and just grabs at your heart in a way that makes you just NEED to know more.When Sky meets Holder, her life changes.
Every single thing they went though and did was believable and just made you wish you knew them in person.I loved that the story was serious but little parts made me laugh out, breaking up the more emotionally charged scenes.
But I am not kidding, it was one of the best written kisses I’ve ever read!I loved that the story was emotionally charged but with absolutely no stupidity.
Here's hoping!When I started this experiment with the New Adult genre, I knew I was going to have to face a lot of things that I wouldn't like.
Sky pauses for all of five seconds to think it's weird that he knows these things, but then she gets distracted by his beautiful eyes or perfect muscles.No, literally, she faints.
I would especially not take water from people I know are bad news, but I'm thirsty." And stupid.This book tells girls and women to ignore the valuable advice their parents gave them when they were young about what to do if approached by a strange man who offers you a drink and appears to know everything about your life, including where you live.
You’re bent over trying to catch your breath when he sneaks up behind you and says, "Hello".
But don’t worry, organ harvesters and serial killers never look like this:Still, you’re a little unsettled, so you try to leave.
You contemplate leaving anyway, but when the door opens again and he tells you he’s running back to your house with you, you obviously acquiesce because, I mean, COME ON, the dude looks like this:Now, replace every one of these:With this:Kind of changes your perspective a little, doesn’t it?
Was not expecting the emotional punch this book delivered! Hilarious and heartbreaking, though at times the juxtaposition of those two things was a bit jarring. I wasn't a huge fan of the romance at first because I thought the main character made some dumb decisions, but as the relationship developed, I really got on board. The story took some unexpected twists and I liked how it all wrapped up. I also really liked the writing style--it was very addictive, I just flew though this book! Definitely looking forward to reading something else by Colleen Hoover soon!
Breathless...Speechless...Helpless...Flawless...........HOPELESS!!----------------------------------------------------------- "The sky is always beautiful.Even when it's dark or rainy or cloudy,it's still beautiful to look at....it'll be there no matter what...and I know it'll always be beautiful." Hello Readers!!After Slammed and Point of Retreat,Colleen Hoover presents us with Hopeless.And I swear this is something you won't be forgetting anytime soon!!So meet with Sky---Want to know what kind
And unfortunately,she is also the type of girl who does not get attracted to boys much,gets bored while making out and never gets butterflies.But all that changes when she sees him for the first time.Dean Holder.As soon as she lays her eyes on him,she immediately notices three things--1) His amazingly perfect white teeth hidden behind that seductively crooked grin.2) The dimple that form in crevices between the corner of his lips and cheeks when he smiles.3)She's pretty sure she's having a hot flash.Or she has butterflies.Or maybe she's coming down with a stomach virus.The feeling is so foreign,she's not sure what it is.And so their story starts!!But Readers,this is no ordinary boy-meets-girl-and-they-fall-in-love story!!I watched...Breathless,speechless,helpless,....Something extraordinary rise!!
5 ENDLESS STARS!!!!  "The sky is always beautiful. Even when it's dark or rainy or cloudy, it's still beautiful to look at. It's my favourite thing because I know if I ever get lost or lonely or scared, I just have to look up and it'll be there no matter what...and I know it'll always be beautiful."  Hope is what comes in the dark of the nightHope is what whispers 'It will all be alright.'Hope can blaze like a fire in the heartHope can reach across worlds set apartHope when lost can bring a wor
I couldn't for one second put it down while I was reading it (expect when absolutely necessary off course, but even then the story continued to live on inside my head).
"I've gone so long trying to find ways to feel numb any chance I get, but seeing the enthusiasm behind his eyes right now...it makes me want to feel every single thing about life.
And my first step to doing so starts with this hopeless boy in front of me who's pouring his heart out, searching for that perfect word, wanting desperately to help me add feeling back into living."
They make reading the beautiful story of Sky and Holder even better.
“Not everyone gets a happily every after. Life is real and sometimes it's ugly and you just have to learn how to cope.”   Before I started reading Hopeless, I thought I was ready for everything. The tissues and the chocolate ice-cream were nearby, and the only thing missing was a steel in case I needed to draw an iratze over my heart. It turns out, I was not ready. I was not ready for a book I hated as much as I loved it.I  hated  it because it forced me to witness a pain so raw, so deep that
I was not ready for a book I hated as much as I loved it.I 
It took effort to turn the pages, to make my brain comprehend and accept that life isn't about fluffy love and happily ever afters.
“My lack of access to the real world has been replaced completely by books, and it can’t be healthy to live in a land of happily ever afters.” 
Sky kissed Holder's wounds, bandaged them with love and held them together with her bare hands.
It may not be my favorite CoHo book, but I recommend it to all of you who want to discover a unique love story that rised from the ashes of two tormented hearts.
I LOVED THIS BOOK. the only reason it's not 5 stars is because it made me really sad at parts but it was wonderful <3 I have a booktalk filmed and i'll be posting it eventually =)
She isn't that kind of NA main character that lies to herself all the time and makes us roll our eyes because we obviously know that she loves the guy and, even though she says she doesn’t want him, everyone else knows she does as well.
Now I know that I haven’t read that many contemporaries in my life, since my favorite genre is fantasy, but you can believe me when I say that that girl is everything you will look for in a main character; she’s strong, stubborn, kind, brave, loving, caring, a good girl, , beautiful.
5+ stars!
I’m not sure how to put into words how much I loved this book!
One of the best I’ve read this year!
It was such a beautiful story- once I started this one, there was no hope for sleep...
I couldn’t put it down!
It had some twists and turns I did not expect!
I love all Colleen Hoover’s books, her writing is awesome- but this is by far the best!
It is in a class of its own!
Incredible!!!
This is Sky and Holder’s story.
Sky is awesome.
She is funny, brave, and just real.
Sky is a teenage
I’m not sure how to put into words how much I loved this book!
I love all Colleen Hoover’s books, her writing is awesome- but this is by far the best!
One of the best things about Sky is the way she handles this...
When Sky see’s Holder for the first time, somethings strange happens...
Holder and Sky have some crazy chemistry.
Sky felt so strongly for Holder, and he felt the same way about her.
“Because the sky is always beautiful.
One of the best books I have read this year!!!!!
I LOVED this book.
I mean I REALLY loved this book.
Like, I loved EVERY SINGLE THING about this book.
It been a long time since I've fallen wholeheartedly in love with a book, its characters, and its love story.
I loved the heroine, Sky. She's one of the best female YA/NA leads I've read to date.
Until now, I had only read her last few releases, and while I felt the writing was excellent, I can't say I overly enjoyed the love stories (in fact, I hated Ugly Love).
I NOW understand why so many of my friends love this author.

She had me at, “completely and comfortably numb.”BOOK TRAILER: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UsmHUt...I almost don't trust myself to write this review because I'm pretty sure...no, I know it will be impossible for me to put into words the experience of Hopeless.The title in itself is packed with irony because every single thing about this book is...more.
Hopeless is beautiful and I felt every single part of it.Colleen Hoover's attention to detail develops the story and gives it life.
Time.The physical connection between Holder and Sky made it difficult to breathe; the moments of intense passion, emotion, feeling.
SPECIAL SALE! 6-20-13 Audible audio edition of Hopeless is on sale for $1.99 LINK: http://www.amazon.com/Hopeless/dp/B00...SPOILER FREE REVIEW5+++ STARS out of 5Genre: New Adult RomanceColleen never disappoints! I LOVED IT!  "Promise me that you will never lose Hope.”  She nods her head as I wipe her tears away with my thumbs.  “I promise,”  she says.  High ExpectationsI have to be completely honest when I first started this I was not all that impressed. I had very high expectations from the rav
But I should have known it would not be long before I was held in a vise grip needing to know what would happen next.High School BluesSeventeen year old Sky has been home-schooled her entire life but not this year.
This year she wants to attend regular school like a normal teenager with her best friend Six. After begging her mom to attend a public high school she finally agrees.
Be more OriginalBefore stepping foot in school Sky has already developed a rep for sleeping around with different guys.
Running...Once Sky learns the identity to the guy she finally feels something for
5 Gorgeous, shining stars! And a couple glow in the dark ceiling ones too... Seems ironic that a book entitled Hopeless would lead me to become so incredibly and utterly hopeful. There are many reasons why I love to read, but ultimately, I read to become inspired. And, after finishing this phenomenal book, I'm pretty sure I've never wanted to hug an author so badly in my life. Colleen Hoover—the vivid characters you create deserve to be humanized, and the touching stories you write never fail to
Colleen Hoover—the vivid characters you create deserve to be humanized, and the touching stories you write never fail to take up residence in my heart!
When this book wasn't busy lovingly breaking my heart, it got its kicks from wowing me with some of the most clever and adorable scenarios imaginable.Sky Davis has been living a sheltered life and seeks false comfort in remaining emotionally numb.
I simply adored the initial back and forth, playful banter between these two characters, and the way Sky was intent on remaining immune to Holder's charm.
Ok, don't kill me but for me, Hopeless was mostly an over the top book.To be honest, after reading the first chapter I was afraid that it would be a 1 star book, but then luckily things got better unfortunately not that better.What prevented me from really enjoying Hopeless is not so much the YA genre or the predictability of the story, that the over use of tragic/traumatic events.
But it's not enough: the hero's twin commit suicide, then we learn that she too was being raped when she was a kid by the heroine's father.
(hide spoiler)]If this isn't over use of tragic/traumatic events I don't know how to call it.
11/5/15: i just stumbled across this book in my "read" shelf and saw I gave it 4 stars, which I immediately changed because now, several months later, all I can think about is how badly this book was written instead of the actual good parts.------honestly i was expecting so much more out of colleen hoover.
i didn't get teary once reading this book.
the only reason this isnt a 2 or 3 star book is because i loved how the love story was so gradual and it was so gripping that i read it in one night.
But there's something different about him...and soon, Sky feels...and falls...And so, their story continues...They became a couple...and fell in  LIVE  with each other...
If you mix the letters up in the words like and love, you get live.
It gets in your eyes and you squint and you’re constantly moving it out of the way like you’re Justin Bieber and it’s really distracting.”  (hide spoiler)]But, at the end, there's a blue sky and the sun is waiting, and they do get their happy ever after.
I have never wanted so much to give two different people hugs as I did with Sky and Holder and I have never and I mean NEVER hated someone so much as I did a character in this book.I've been reading a lot of books with similar themes in them lately and pretty much thought I'd seen and read it all but I was so wrong.
This is just one of those books that remind you why you love to read so much.
Yeah I know I cheated but it's impossible to describe this book with one word.Hopeless ended so beautifully, in fact the last chapter was probably one of the best endings I've ever read.
Even though it's been 3 years since I've read this story - it still brought back all the same feels from the first time.
8/24/2015I LOVED THIS BOOK!!!Holder was an amazing boyfriend!!!
I spent so much time highlighting this book that I realized it was turning into one big highlight.
I loved that book had The Sea of Tranquility reference.2 songs for Holder & SkyI'm YoursLuckySERIES:
Each book is one character's POV of the same story.Novellas:
(#2.5) {FREE: http://amzn.to/1LfH1bH}CoHo->"This novella is a companion novel to the Hopeless series, but can be read as a standalone."
(hide spoiler)]When he met Sky he did everything so she will truly love him and help him recover but he never thought that he would find out what really happened to his sister and to the girl who used to live next door.This story caused me an emotional rollercoaster.The first half of the book was SO sweet and cute!
(hide spoiler)]On the other hand , the second half of the book left me speechless!!I had No idea that the story would turn out like this!!So many secrets of the past.They needed each other....
6 Stars! ★☆☽☾ I butterflying lived&hated this book!Sky, Holder and Collen Hoover! :D After crossing the 60% mark of this book.. All I could tell myself during many events and scenes was...Breathe... Breathe... Breathe...Breathe just a little more.. let the oxygen spread to your lungs and brains!Because what you are reading..It just cannot be whats actually writtenHehe, Stayed awake till 8am finishing this book... Pulled an all nighter and oh boy was it worth ever single minute! "The sky is
★☆☽☾ I butterflying lived&hated this book!Sky, Holder and Collen Hoover!
Pretty blunt, very straight forward, no drama, no bullshit, just a genuine mad ass girl with a weird sense of humor who thinks LOL means lots of love and sends her boyfriend texts instead of her best friend about sealing the deal with him..
and obviously fell in love with the characters.But I won't be able to write a review as such for this book without giving stuff away!and as I don't want to spoil such an amazing book for you people..So hence I won't write much..and NO RANT too,because this book, IT WAS BLOODY PERFECT!!!!This book has secrets, pieces..
Another gut-puncher novel written by the one and only Colleen Hoover.This was a very difficult book to rate for me.
I enjoyed Colleen Hoover's books-- mainly Confess which until these days, remains my favorite.
And only Colleen Hoover can make such a brilliant conclusion like that.However, this book, for me, has some flaws which include:*The slow pacing.
And because of this, I found the book quite lacking when it comes to the plot twist.
There was instant attraction and the way they immediately connected was kind of unbelievable.It's my first time rating CoHo's books 3 stars and it seriously breaks my heart.
Incredible... "The sky is always beautiful. Even when it’s dark or rainy or cloudy, it’s still beautiful to look at"  "he slides his fingers down my arm until he finds my pinky, then wraps his around it. It’s an extremely small gesture, but he couldn’t have done anything more perfect to fill me with the sense of security that I need from him right now" I can't even begin to express how much I loved this book. Simply, heartbreakingly beautiful and I loved every single word written. Thank-you, Ms.
Incredible...
"The sky is always beautiful.
Even when it’s dark or rainy or cloudy, it’s still beautiful to look at"
"he slides his fingers down my arm until he finds my pinky, then wraps his around it.
It’s an extremely small gesture, but he couldn’t have done anything more perfect to fill me with the sense of security that I need from him right now"
I can't even begin to express how much I loved this book.
Simply, heartbreakingly beautiful and I loved every single word written.
Thank-you, Ms. Hoover for creating another amazing story!Oh and I really dug how you mentioned another one of my favorite books: 
There's a Lots of gossip and rumors and i couldn't bring myself to keep listening to the audiobook.
i was suprised by how CoHo can write about all these tragic events *Drama queen alert* and how the characters can just let go of their past without needing any professional help and go back to live a normal life, don't get me wrong i love CoHo but reading about high school adventures then Child sexual abuse is just not my cup of tea =))
Beautifully written, heartbreaking, gutwrenching and stunningly addictive. Adored it.
All the stars! All the feelings! I loved it, I hated it, I accepted it! This story destroyed me, and then healed me. It was truly an emotional roller coaster!Colleen you are a Queen of my heart!
I was not sure about Holder as the love interest at the start as he came off as a little forceful, but I was left intrigued by the reasons behind these actions.
The last half of the novel delivers some violently emotional scenes that displays exactly what kind of talent Colleen possesses to be able to embed so much power into the written word.
I was not expecting so much grit from such a pretty blue skied cover.On the subject of covers, take a look at the full mockup and tell me you don't get chills (especially those who've read it):Such a perfect representation.
AMAZING FANTASTIC BREATHTAKING HEARTBREAKING EARTH SHATTERING FLAWLESSLY WRITTENSWEETHOPEFULPUREMOVINGI loved this book. EVERY emotion is written within the pages. You feel it ALL. What can I say. Colleen Hoover is brilliant. THIS book is brilliant. There's no words for what I read, except....READ THIS FREAKING BOOK. It rocks!  You can also find me at - BLOG FACEBOOK LINK --->> Facebook - Angie's Dreamy Reads
You start to put together the edges to form some sort of frame and learn that it has something to do with a girl named Sky. While linking the outer pieces of the puzzle you see that you have created Sky’s best friend Six and her adoptive mother named Karen.Once your pieces are in place for the frame you pick up a piece that has a boy who is wearing a hot pink shirt and tight skinny jeans.
There are several star twinkling sky pieces and you are intrigued to finish when suddenly scary and ugly pieces start to form things you wish didn’t exist in the world.
