https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18580.Summer_of_My_German_Soldier
Even if you forget everything else I want you to always remember that you are a person of value, and you have a friend who loved you enough to give you his most valued possession.  #Fact 1 This story ripped out my heart. #Fact 2 I can't believe it's taken me this long to find this book. #Fact 3 I need a drink.#Fact 4 This was based on the author's true story. Hence my need for a drink. Wow. Where do I begin. Summer of My German Soldier has really taken me by surprise. In every way possible. T
First of all, Summer of My German Soldier isn't really about romance, it's about life.
Upon meeting for the first time both Anton and Patty take an instant liking to one another.
‘Jewish girl risks all for German soldier.’ Anton is a compassionate young man who studied to become a doctor.
Because you are no common garden flower—you are unique.”  Anton and Patty find solace in one another, and true friendship.
Patty hopes, however, that, one day, they'll be together.
I wanted to help Anton find his way back home.
I wanted to slap the crap out of Patty's parents.
It isn't that kind of love story--which is probably why I like it.
I have many favorite quotes from this book, including: '...the only questions I like to raise are those that are unanswerable.'(Anton, the German soldier speaking in reference to Hitler) '...a man who is incapable of humor is capable of cruelty.''I believe that love is better than hate.
This book is still a beautiful ache in my heart long after I finished it. I don't know why it never came up in lists of recommended modern classics. It is not a feel good romance, but a beautiful story of courage, friendship and love, and of a young girl learning to filter out the unkindness and prejudice directed towards her to discover the truth and goodness of love.Adolescents who are used to a diet of feel-good will need to be prepared for some heart stretching, but in the long-run, and wit
This book is still a beautiful ache in my heart long after I finished it.
It is not a feel good romance, but a beautiful story of courage, friendship and love, and of a young girl learning to filter out the unkindness and prejudice directed towards her to discover the truth and goodness of love.Adolescents who are used to a diet of feel-good will need to be prepared for some heart stretching, but in the long-run, and with a little talking through, reading this book will help them to be better prepared to face the joys and challenges of life with courage and love.
www.GoodReadingGuide.com
THIS is the worst book I've ever been FORCED to read.
Note to teachers, if you make your students read this, THEN YOU ARE PART OF THE PROBLEM!
Have you ever wondered why kids don't like reading?
It's because of books like these.
And, if you continue to say that this book ties in with whatever WWII lesson your teaching, then I truly feel sorry.
Not for the teachers, but for the students.
Plain and simple, this book sucks.
To the teachers who make their kids read this, I advise you to turn yourselves into the police, because your torturing your students.
His and Ruth's interaction with Patty reminded me of Aibilene from The Help, constantly telling the browbeaten little girl "You is kind, you is smart, you is good..." - trying desperately to counteract the inevitable result of the horrible combination of intentional and unintentional abuse by the parents.
In fact, from the little bit I know about Nazi espionage techniques, Reiker is the sort of man most prized by the SS: able to speak unaccented English, plausible and friendly-seeming...
And for a brief book written in a fairly light tone, centered around the suburban life of a twelve-year-old merchant's daughter in 20th century Alabama, there is a wrenching amount of desperation running all through it.
Another book I was forced to read for school and consequently now despise to the depths of my soul. But really, it's crap on its own. A twelve year old girl, complete with an abusive father and lacking the three c's of an interesting protagonist (Confidence, Common sense, and Character), gets the brilliant idea of hiding an escaped German POW in her garage. And for an added dramatic twist, SHE'S JEWISH! How's THAT for exciting conflict? Yeah, not so much. Simply put, this book made me want to vomit.Read for: 9th grade English
PLEASE FOR THE LOVE OF GOD IF U HAVE ANY SENSE IN YOU DONT READ THIS BOOKnow that thats over I tell you the truth......the screaming is what you are going to be doing on every single page of this bookthere are so many things I would rather do than this, like get punched by everyone in my school or watch teletubies and dora for 1 week striat (never doing anything else)seriously if you see thsi book burn it and dance around the fire laughing like a maniac
Patty is the main character in this story.
The main characters in this story are Patty, Anton, Ruth (maid), Patty's mother and Patty's father.
Patty, the main character is definitely a dynamic character because she changes a lot from the beginning.
She helps out Patty with all of her problems.
She had a big problem now because Patty had taken in the escaped prisoner and cared for him and they became great friends.
This is because later in the book, people find out that she is helping him.
She is also trying to hide him from her father who hates the German's for what they are doing to the Jewish people.
Reviewed for THC ReviewsSummer of My German Soldier is a poignant coming-of-age story about a young Jewish girl from a small town in Arkansas who helps an escaped German POW, an act which changes her life forever.
Overall, I thought Patty was very brave to risk literally everything, possibly even her own life, to help a fellow human being in need, and most of all, she was an incredibly strong girl to survive all the hardships that were placed upon her young shoulders.The two characters who care the most about Patty and have the most influence on her life are Anton, the POW she helps, and her family's housekeeper, Ruth.
What it is is a novel about compassion, loyalty, self-realization, courage, faith and self-preservation.Twelve-year-old Patty is obviously not the child her parents hoped to have.
Summers are particularly lonely for Patty because the few friends she has from school go away to Bible camp which she cannot attend as a Jew. Her grandparents in Memphis would love to have her visit, but her father won’t allow it.
The way he treats Patty makes her feel, for the first time, that she is a worthwhile person, a person who deserves to be loved.
Still, the way she is treated by her parents (and many of the other adults in the novel) made me want to just throttle them.
I loved this one. She hides the German soldier - it has Southern US setting, mother and father are absent working, only the maid finds out, but helps her. Of course she falls in love with him - for me very dramatic and romantic.
Sweet Jesus I was not expecting this bittersweet ache.After I finished reading I did nothing.
But, I did see a post that really pertains to how I feel right now after finishing this book.
"do you ever just finish a book and sit there for a while like what the fuck did this author just do to me" -galaxysdefender Yes indeed that is exactly how I feel.
What are all these feelings that I am feeling.While reading, I was reminded of The Help, quite different, obviously, but definitely some similar vibes.
old I didn't think that I would like it, but it's not a mushy-gushy romance, its more of a friendship really.
I liked this book because it made me think.
Was Patty justified in helping Anton because he wasn't really a Nazi and he wasn't trying to escape so that he could run around and kill people, he just wanted to be free?Why do you think the author portrayed the German soldier as the "good guy" and Patty's father (the Jew) as the "bad guy"?Do you think that Patty's behavior was realistic for a 12 year old girl from a dysfunctional family?In the end, do you think that the punishment fit the crime?What I didn't like: It starts out really slow and takes a long time to pick up the pace.
While I liked both characters and loved seeing Patty mature throughout the story, I was hoping for more.
The ages of our characters is partly what put me off.
Patty is a young (12) girl and he is an adult (early 20's) soldier.
Luckily it is still a very clean book so not too uncomfortable with it.For me, I felt this was more a coming-of-age novel than anything.
It is a fast read that I was able to quickly gulp down.
I see why it is popular for required reading with the historical and personal growth blend.
I remember nothing of this book, all I remember is the name stuck in my head and the fact that I hated this book more than almost any other book I was ever forced to read in an English class in middle or high school.
I find I've been reading a lot of YA novels about males, so my wife suggested I read this one, a favorite from her adolescence.Turns out Patty Bergen is a fantastic young adult narrator, a girl who just may have the most wretched parents I've ever read about.Summer of My German Soldier is a unique sort of book, and it is beautifully written.
Patty Bergen is a Jewish American who befriends and helps an escaped German POW.
It may be a little dated, but Patty is a wonderful narrator, and I will look forward to reading the sequel soon.
The main character is engaging, but all the other characters except for Anton are just a bundle of stereotypes.
And then there's the ickiness factor: the main character is 12 and the German soldier is 20.
But the girl has a crush on him and he kisses her.
Now, 12-year-old girls get crushes on young men who are too old for them all the time.
But the mark of a 20-year-old of character, which this man is supposed to be, is that he does not take advantage.
This is the first time I have read this book.
It's hard to know what I would have thought when I was younger.
As it is I was surprised by it, and loved it.
The writing itself is so good I couldn't put it down.
To really be able to appreciate this book someone would need to be old enough to know back history about WW2, prejudism in our country and the difference between a German soldier who has had to serve his country, and a Nazi.I read the entire thing last night.
Couldn't put it down.
I was forced to read this book in 8th grade along with George Orwell's 'Animal Farm'.Want to know the difference in the two?One possesses fantastic vocabulary, dark humor, and is an allegorical masterpiece of art. One is a chaotic mess of boring characters and is one of the most boring novels conceived in literature.I'm sure you can figure out which is which.This review is over with and this book is now gone from my memory....sort of.Goodbye.
I hated this book. It was depressing and awful. Also you couldn't even root for the love story because she was 12 and he was in his twenties. I would not recommend this book.
Summer of My German Soldier tells the story of Patty Bergen, a young Jewish girl growing up in rural Arkansas in World War II.
That all changes the summer Patty is twelve, and German POW's are relocated to Patty's hometown.
Patty befriends on soldier, Anton, and when he escapes, she helps hide him.......I loved the book this time as much as the first time I read it.
I even found myself underlining and highlighting passages throughout the book, shocked by the relevance to what is currently going on in the world.Full Review WITH SPOILERS here:http://thebookfetish-mybookfetish.blo...
I think of it as a story about humanity, compassion, unconditional love and what can be gained when we are able to look beyond labels to see who a person truly is, instead of who we expect them to be.
At its heart, the Summer of My German Soldier is really about two frightened, misunderstood souls, both more or less victims of circumstance, who find in one another a rare friendship that they each desperately need at that moment and time.
If only that seal could think, he'd know he was making a thousand children laugh." —Patty Bergen, "Summer of My German Soldier", P.
160 "Like the Bible tells us, when a man will lay down his life for a friend, well, then there ain't no greater love in this here world than that." —Ruth, "Summer of My German Soldier", P.
"Summer of My German Soldier" is one of the most captivatingly brilliant stories that it has ever been my privilege to read.
Get ready for an immensely moving, powerfully engaging experience when you prepare to read "Summer of My German Soldier".
I think this was to the advantage of the plot though, which revolves around an intriguing idea, but one that teeters slightly towards the improbable; it is not hard to believe though once the story begins, as it is populated by the voices of such honest characters that the very dramatic scenario becomes wholly true and heartbreaking (I was faintly reminded of this distinct element of the storytelling from Summer of My German Soldier when I read Twilight...very faintly though:).I never read the second book, but I might someday, if I need what I expect is a very good read to relieve a sudden attack of nostalgia :) And I will surely pass my copy along to my daughter one day :)
It is the story of an American Jewish girl who befriends a German POW.
She has very few people to love in her life; her father mistreats her, and her mother is self-centered and doesn't really care about her.
The only one she has is Ruth, their colored hired girl, who is the only one who really loves her.
But when Anton comes into her life, everything changes; for better and for worse.The book was written in a very strong voice; it was very honest, with a wonderful emotional quality.
It was a very tragic book; but the writing made it wonderful.
One of my favorite childhood books.
I am pretty sure I discovered this one on my own at the library when I was around 12 or 13.
I finished all the usual classics-the Wilder and anything prairie books, the Montgomery and orphan themed books, the Farley and Henry horse books, Alcott etc.
This was my very first book with any kind of true thoughts of romance in it.
This isn't on many summer reading lists any more which is a tragedy.
Summer of My German Soldier is an absolute masterpiece that child or adult should read at least once.
Oh this book was awesome! It is an amazing love story between a Jewish girl and an escaped German Soldier, it shows what they both with risk and how life during the war was for families. The main character Patty, lives with a dysfunctional family and an abusive father. Wanted by the police Anton will risk his cover and Patty with house the enemy. And in the end it all comes down to one memory that could make or break them both. With a surprising twisting end I loved this book and I wanted to keep reading.
To paper over truth because of modern sensibilities is to ignore what mistakes were made, and risk the mistakes happening again."Maybe you're right, but maybe, just maybe, we all have an enormous capacity for believing in anything that will provide us with a bit of comfort."..."I've found this here a cold world, a mighty cold world, and a man and a woman, well, they needs a little comforting 'for they freeze to death."This book should be read, not banned.In any case, the summary of the book is more than why people might wish to ban it.Patty Bergen's parents are rich, on the comparative scale of Jenkinsville, and they do not particularly care what she does so long as she does what they expect her to do.
Wow, a powerful young adult novel.
This made me wonder what is considered "young adult".
I am seeing several reviews by readers who were required to read this in school, but as a mother I would not have wanted my early teen to read this.
I knew the premise of this story of a young Jewish girl who befriends a German prisoner of war during World War II, but I certainly did not expect the more serious and disturbing subject matter.
I believe age as well as other factors should be considered when recommending or requiring this book for a particular reader.
This review was originally published at Fluttering ButterfliesI first read Summer of My German Soldier by Bette Greene when I was an awkward 12 year old in middle school.
Things seemed pretty rough for poor Patty, who liked nothing more than making up wild stories and learning new words from the dictionary.Patty is a 12 year old girl living in the South.
They talk and become friends.It's funny, I read this book as a child and remember thinking of it as this epic romance filled with angst and emotion.
I was slightly apprehensive reading this book again thinking that there might be with Patty being 12 and Anton being 22.
