https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/369110.Captains_and_the_Kings
Taylor Caldwell is largely unknown today, and CAPTAINS AND THE KINGS is virtually the only novel of her left in print in mass-market paperback, and less than a handful are available in oversized paperback editions.
I re-read it two years ago, well over 30 years after my last reading, and enjoyed it all over again.If you've never read Taylor Caldwell, CAPTAINS AND THE KINGS is well worth seeking out, along with DYNASTY OF DEATH, TESTIMONY OF TWO MEN, and DEAR AND GLORIOUS PHYSICIAN.
With historical fiction once again highly popular, it's time Caldwell was rediscovered.5/12/12: 39 years after it was published, the paperback edition of CAPTAINS AND THE KINGS has gone out of print.
I think that's part of what I distinguish as "old" writing, where the author spends more time letting you into why their characters are doing things as opposed to describing what they actually did.
And there are so many characters, that takes time and pages!
(hello- this thing is over 800 pages long!) I was so impressed with her ability to keep her characters true to themselves and what she had established, but allowing them to grow with the story and circumstances she developed.
Finally- my dad will tell you he thinks this story is loosely based on the Kennedy Family.
Ok--Be very careful with Taylor Caldwell books. She has geared these toward women who want hardcore romance--if you know what I mean. It is usually brief I hear, but the point of her books is not about "heaving bossoms" it's to educate the average reader about governments and what goes on behind the scenes. She is very educated and a very talented writer and usually writes about a specific conspiracy. They may sound strange but I would highly recommend any of her books (minus the bedroom scene) for anyone interested in learning politics without getting out a history book.
For everyone who did or has ever voted in a presidential election, this is a must read. When an unknown can come out of the woodwork, unstudied and untested, without any sort of litmus test, and become our president, we must ask ourselves, "Who is he and who owns him?' Read this book! It is haunting!
A truly extraordinary book in every way!
My mom told me that a long time ago, she read a book that was so good, and I thought to myself, I have to read this.
If you read it and think about it, the book should both frighten you while making you wonder who the hell is actually running our country and the world.
Men behind curtains that no one has ever heard of making decisions that change how the world functions, all for political and economical gain that furthers their push for abosolute power.
داستان زندگی پسری ایرلندی بنام جوزف است که در سیزده سالگی یتیم می شود و سرپرستی خواهر وبرادر کوچکترش را بر عهده می گیرد .آنها از مهاجران به آمریکا هستند.داستان شرح کارهایی است که جوزف انجام می دهد تا به ثروت می رسد تاآنجا که پسرش را می خواهد رئیس جمهور کند در بخش دوم داستان شرح حال پسرش روایت می شودکه تم سیاسی ماجرا بیشتر پرداخت می شود. هر چه که داستان پیش میرود پرکشش تر میشود
این کتاب نه تنها یک رمان، که نمایه ای از ساختار سیاسی اکثر کشورهاست.
ساختاری که شکل دهنده قدرت است.
این کتاب زندگی یک مهاجر ایرلندی به امریکا در سنین پایین تا دوران پیری اش را به تصویر کشیده است که از فقر و نداری به جاه و قدرت می رسد تا جایی که می خواهد پسرش را به نامزدی ریاست جمهوری برساند.
داستانی مملو از زندگی و مبین ناپاکی قدرت که با معادلات انسانی همخوانی ندارد.
در کل می توانم بگویم که رمانی است برپایه عرض فلسفه ای که مد نظر نویسنده اش بوده است و به شدت به دوستان توصیه می کنم که آن را مطالعه نمایند
One of my favorite books. The characters are strong and the story line is compelling. When you are finished reading it, you are left with a disturbing thought . . . who are the people in charge . . . calling all of the shots?
This sweeping saga of a powerful family dynasty, loosely based on the Kennedys, was written in the 70's, but it could be a cautionary tale published yesterday about political corruption and the dangers of socialism. It was actually quite depressing, in the context of what is going on in our country today, so it took me awhile to get through.
On the surface it is a book of a young Irish immigrant who with hard work and a willingness to do whatever was needed for success was able to build a multi-million dollar business empire and to consort with the world's most powerful people.
First and foremost he had a vision of how to succeed, how to get even and how to advance his own personal agenda.So on one level this is the personal story of Joseph Armagh and how he overcomes so many obstacles in his fight to provide for his "family".
This is a fascinating read. You feel totally involved in this world while you are reading. I read it as a teenager and as an adult and it's loosely based on the story of the Kennedys more particularly their father Joseph with a lot of intrigue and nasty back-stabbing thrown in. Creepy doesn't even begin to describe the kind of people that are in this book...and anyone who comes in contact with them is fighting a losing battle.
TV miniseriesGreat watching but glad I didn't read - know what I mean?
I can't even bring myself to finish this book. The descriptions sometimes go on for pages. I can't make myself care about the main character. He is cold and unfeeling and I have lost interest.
Captains and the Kings is the sweeping 1972 novel of the family of Joseph Francis Xavier Armagh, who departs Ireland as a 13-year-old with his mother and younger brother Sean to join his father in America.
They are penniless and find out they will not be allowed to debark in New York at the same time that he is informed that his father has recently died.
Joseph uses most of the little money he has been left by his father to place Sean and Regina with the nuns in an orphanage.

Captains and the Kings was made into a mini-series and CD set is available even now on Amazon.
After reading the book in the 70's, I gained a great insight not only into the history of the era but also a pretty good portrait of old Joe Kennedy Sr. who was strikingly similar as the chief character of this book.
In any event, it was a good read and I would read it again if it were available on Kindle.
However, new copies are still available for those who want to settle down with a great book.
Captains and the Kings is such a great all around read in my opinion.
So much so that it is one of my favorite books of all time (and that's saying a lot coming from me).
It is easy to read, yet pretty intense and I had a difficult time putting this book down!
Caldwell writes so well and is able to captivate the reader that by the end of the book, I was left wanting more.
For those who haven't read this book yet, I hope you give this one a chance!
This book started out super strong with vivid details, moving images, and character investment.
I loved, loved, loved it.
Then, imagine my surprise when on page 100 the author tells all about the protagonist moving to Titusville, PA (my humble home town) in order to strike it rich in the oil fields.
It was absolutely fascinating reading about my town 150 years ago!
I enjoyed the book, except there are places where it gets bogged down in politics which, although I recognize is the main theme of the book, was disproportionate in my opinion, especially when marriages and births might be restricted to a mere sentence.
Overall, I highly recommend this book to those from good old T-ville!
3.5 stars, really. It would have been 4 but for the oddness of a key issue in the narrative: out of nowhere (it appeared to me; I am told I may have missed a whole part of the storyline - see below), we suddenly learned of the man who had cursed our main protagonist's family - but the narrative of that happening and how and why was never included. Yet, from its first mention, this curse was referenced over and over again in the rest of the story. Weird.
Captains and the kings, Taylor Caldwell (1900 - 1985)عنوان: سران و سلاطین؛ اثر: تیلور کالدول؛ مترجمها: نیره توکلی؛ هادی امین؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، نیلوفر، 1361، در 530 ص، چاپ دوم زمستان 1363؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان انگلیسی قرن 20 م
This was one of my very first adult books, The saga was a turning point in my literary genesis. I was made aware of the importance of history
Joseph Francis Xavier Armagh had a terrible blow in his early life when he emigrated from Ireland to America with his mother and two younger brothers and his mother died on the ship.
At 12, he was responsible of his little brother and sister.
He found an orphanage for them and he worked in whatever he could, went hungry and suffered as an adult with the hope of reuniting with them, but several years would pass.
We follow the story of Joseph for 70 years in the 19th and 20th centuries.
A story of survival and of excellent knowledge of human mind.
Since my grandparents immigrated to the USA in the mid/late 1800s I love reading historical fiction shining light on the ocean travel across the Atlantic and then the determination and independent hardwork necessary to become prosperous American citizens.
My analogy is this....When I go to a fine restaurant for an outstanding enjoyable meal I don’t need the chef or waitress to stand at my table telling me every ingredient used, where the spices originated, how they were prepared and how long the meal baked.
Would that equate to an enjoyable eating experience?
That’s exactly how I feel about reading this book.
A pretty depressing story, nobody has a happy ending.Apart from the conspiracy theories, which bored me to death, I quite liked the book, especially the first part, until Joe marries Bernadette, from there on the plot is entangled and entangled without much sense and it made the task of finishing reading it quite hard.
Way too long, way too everything. Almost went the way of atlas shrugged when the message was becoming more important than the storytelling. Great character development, it’s one shining point; admittedly, didn’t much like the characters though. Been awhile since I stuck with a book that really wasn’t working for me.
I’m not sure why I kept on with this long and tedious book, but I’m glad I did, because the ending was the best part.
A re-read of a favorite from way back. Timeless plot that seems as germane today as it did 40 years ago - perhaps more so.
Loved the character development at he beginning of the book, top notch fully explored real people. The book got bogged down in politics but the author seemed prophetic as politics haven’t changed! It is an older book so the writing may take more concentration. Worthwhile read but why hasn’t this been made into a miniseries? Hello Netflix...
I would have perhaps embraced the cynicism and dystopian views of man's very nature...as a teen is taken with Nietzsche and that darkness.It is high on melodrama, which was rife in sagas of this time, and while I enjoyed the characters and the fact that man is often his own worse enemy, that what he strives for is often his own undoing, and that wealth and the hunger for power rarely satisfies when achieved the emptiness of one's life.The difficult part of this saga is that it is hinged on the existence of a group of international bankers, who control the world and use socialism to distract and divide the populace...history is replete with such cabals, normally in most conspiracy theories attributable to 'the Jews'.
Another typical Caldwell trait is her love of the Kennedy clan, and of all of her novels, this one is the one that is most obviously inspired by the Kennedys.
After this, the main character takes the fast track toward power and riches.Despite the limitations of this novel, it does have a very positive trait of the Taylor Caldwell novel, which is that it has a strong story line, deep characters and a strong message.
Like the Kennedys, the character in this book longs to place his son in the White House, but unlike the Kennedys he is unable to do so.
