https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16072540-the-adventure-of-shoscombe-old-place
Head trainer John Mason, from Shoscombe Old Place, a racing stable in Berkshire, comes to Holmes about his employer, Sir Robert Norberton.
Sir Robert’s sister, Lady Beatrice Falder owns Shoscombe, but it will revert to her late husband’s brother when she dies.
The stable has only one promising race horse, Shoscombe Prince, who Sir Robert hopes will win the Derby, and a win would pay off all his debts.Mason is not quite sure what Holmes should investigate, but he has noted a number of odd changes around the house.
Why has Lady Beatrice stopped greeting her favorite horse?
Edicion leida: Aguilar en español que viene con La melena de león y DVD
An unpredictably excitable plot. The story, for a major part, covers a horse race, though it gets quite spooky towards the end. To all readers who appreciate a well-written mystery story, I recommend this short story.
Story is not good but not what I have expected either.
The eleventh short story in The Case Book of Sherlock Holmes by Arthur Conan Doyle. A mystery at a horse racing stable. Interesting and entertaining.
The last story I read of Doyle's Sherlock.So cool. Thumbs up.
Eh, it was okay.
In this story, Head trainer John Mason from Shoscombe Old Place, a racing stable in Berkshire, comes to Holmes about his master, Sir Robert Norberton.
Why does she just ride on by in her carriage?Why has Sir Robert become so wild-eyed lately?Why has he given his sister’s dog away to a neighbourhood innkeeper?Why does he go to the old crypt at night, and who is that man that he meets there?Why have burnt human bones been found in the furnace at Shoscombe?Holmes decides to investigate on the spot.
Shoscombe Old Place by Arthur Conan DoyleOn Wisdom and Emotional IntelligenceSherlock Holmes is a model of bright, clever, ingenious thinking. He could be the epitome of Wisdom.As described by Martin Seligman –wisdom is a cluster of five strengths including:1. perspective, 2. street smarts, 3. social Intelligence, Emotional Intelligence4. love of learning,5. curiosity, 6. critical thinkingIf anyone has all of them in abundant, if not maximum supply, it is Sherlock Holmes. His analytical thinking
The connections escape a mere mortal, but are made by the brilliant mind of a genius like Sherlock Holmes, or more like it- its inventor Conan Doyle.There is a surge in the number of movies and series inspired by the mastermind, from Guy Richie (I don’t know the exact spelling and I am not going to search for it- he was Madonna’s husband, in case you’re wondering) to a latest adaptation which is nominated for one or more Emmy prizes.I for one generally stay away from crime stories, but reading one good short tale of Doyle has encouraged me to repeat the test and go for more sagas, but in the short format, I am not denying my long held belief that assassins are not worth reading about, I am just making a concession, when we are dealing with a small number of pages.And the challenge to the mind is obvious: these stories make you curious, use critical thinking, EQ and what professor Seligman calls the crucial strength- perspective.Funny that trying to avoid detective novels, I stumble upon two, one after the other…a Kiss Before Dying is the novel I will write notes on next, in case you are…Curious.
This is the final Sherlock Holmes story. I was a typical Holmes short story. Finally finished this series.
Nice.
Pedestrian Sherlock Holmes short story about a horse.
Oke
En met deze heb ik het laatste verhaal van Arthur Conan Doyle gelezen. Ook dit verhaal was best de moeite waard.
nope.
