https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/183105.Mystery_in_Arizona
The Mystery in Arizona is the 6th book in the Trixie Belden series.
I couldn't get enough of the B.W.G. and the mysteries they solved.I was a bit hesitant to re-read the series as an adult because I didn't want my happy memories of the books to change, but once I started reading I was glad to be back in Sleepyside with my old pals.
In this 6th book, the gang has a great time in Arizona, makes some money by helping Uncle Monty, meets some interesting people, and gets to solve a mystery!
Not one of Campbell's better efforts, but it does have some nice moments for the Trixie fan, like the girls decorating the Christmas tree or Trixie's sudden panic about homesickness and her mom's handling of it.
And although Campbell's characterization skills fail her when it comes to Diana's uncle and I never get much feel for Maria or Rosita except as plot points (to be honest, I kept mixing them up, their personalities seemed so interchangeable), I like the "DGs" (three "Difficult Guests") and Tenny.
They don't have the depth of characterization Campbell gave to most of her minor characters in the earlier books, but they're as good as your average Nancy Drew supporting role.Still worth reading for a Trixie fan, IMHO.
But definitely.” Here we go again!That’s insensitive for Di to run in saying they’re going to Arizona knowing Trixie might not go.Family coming out of the woodwork!
&hey, isn’t Trixie supposed to like mysteries &adventures??!I thought the Hassayamp river &if you drink from it, you’ll never tell the truth again, and the little saying they have for Hassayamp liars was cool.
Which I think they’re making fun of.-“She knows that Petey wants to be with the other Orlando’s, wherever they are,” but nobody paid any attention to Trixie when she talked like that--nobody except Rosita.’ Why don’t they believe her?!?Can’t believe her husband died!
This book is so bad I have a hard time articulating the ways in which it sucks. Let's hit the easy targets first, heap big stereotypum, ugh. Completely offensive, on every level. Also easy to complain about; the didactic and horribly stilted writing. It sounds like a travelogue about Arizona written by aliens. This book reads as though it was written by a corporate committee. The characters, completely unreal, completely stereotypical.There's just nothing about this book to like.
Endless info-dumps and racism, sexism, and other disagreeable bits that required a great deal of out-loud editing.
As with the last book, you can easily see the cultural shift away from feminism.
I was completely grossed out by all the girls’ self-deprecation, even Trixie’s, although she at least blames her actions rather than some inherent girliness for her math grade.
Tons of gender division here, and the attempts at subverting the norms (Boys Can Cook!) seem less about fighting sexism than about suggesting boys can do All The Things and girls can’t.
The Trixie Belden mysteries fall into some broad categories.
This one is one of the "the mystery isn't really a mystery" episodes, with Trixie picking up on some strange events and trying to make them more sinister than they turn out to be.
Most of the entertainment in this book comes not from the mystery, but from the Bob-Whites getting roped by Trixie into doing housework on their dude ranch vacation.
The "mystery" is resolved rather abruptly, and everyone gets a happy ending, but I prefer the books where something genuinely sinister is going on.
But, this one is enjoyable in that there is a wealth of knowledge about the culture to be read in the book, and the mystery this time actually does not involve any crimes.
I also enjoy how some of the guests end up helping out the dude ranch of Di Lynch's uncle when his usual employees have mysteriously left.Mystery in Arizona is the last of the books written by Julie Campbell.
Aside from the different name on the cover, it is not obvious in writing style that authors are switched.
From here, the timeline gets a little skewed as well, but otherwise the characters are the same as Campbell wrote them and the writing style is similiar.
Haven't read this in ages and ages.
Written in the 50's , I originally read them in the 60's when they weren't so much.
"I'm a full blooded Apache Indian" she told them.
"Barbara Slater is my American name and I was educated in public schools." She slipped into the empty seat beside Di.
"When I'm old enough I'm going to try to get a job as an airline hostess."Babs smiled back at her.
"This particular airline hires only full-blooded Indian girls for the New York to Tucson run.
All of us, of course, have to be high school graduates."Wow.
Anyway, I loved this book, there wasn't really much of a mystery to it - it was just Trixie and the Bob-Whites trying to help many different people on an Arizona dude ranch they are staying at for the holidays.
I loved this book except for the fact that there was WAAAY too much Arizona history.
When Trixie and her friends are flying on the plane from New York, there are about three pages with nothing but the flight stewardess talking about the origins of the name Arizona and things like that, I just skimmed through the educational parts.
I actually remembered this book quite vividly from what must have been my last reread of the series.
I remember it because I was pretty unimpressed with the screeds of “facts” in large blocks that the author had inserted into the book, rather than adding it as atmosphere.
I didn’t much enjoy some of the personalities and behaviour in this book, and that definitely bought things down a bit for me.
This is one of my least favorite early Trixies, and coincidentally, the very last one I owned.
Though I had to wonder, reading this book in 2010 -- would the Orlando family (who left the ranch to return to Mexico to attend a family gathering) be able to get back into Arizona in this day and age, or would poor Uncle Monty be stuck with the Bob-Whites as his ranch crew forever?
I could probably overlook the other stuff if the descriptions of Arizona weren't so didactic and BORING.My favorite part of this book was the food (of course) and the description of the dime-store Christmas gifts they gave each other.
Trixie's tiny detective magnifying glass!
Just re-read this one and liked it as much as I remember. Don't see it as a weak link in the series. Who needs a villain when you've got the root of Di's stewardess ambitions, the boys in tight matador pants, and Jim making Trixie blush when he says she'll be the most graceful lady on the floor for the square dance and asks to be her partner.
Good again ... pretty good Arizona history here.August 2013 ... another good read, quick and easy, fun mystery, plus lots of information about Arizona and the culture of the American Indians there.
This slight and silly Trixie is still good fun, though nowhere near as good as greats such as The Gatehouse Mystery. Not enough menace or concrete mystery to solve.
This is odd, of course, because they were MEANT for teen and pre-teen girls, but I was a young boy that read everything he could get his hands on and when I first stumbled on my first TRIXIE BELDON book I was instantly hooked!
Trixie is the star, or "lead" character, followed by Jim and Honey (who quickly became the love of my young life, I had a total crush on a fictional character that only existed in ink) and this brave trio was constantly getting into trouble, solving mysteries and murders; that sort of thing.
I lost all of my Trixie books years ago, lending them to friends and that sort of thing.
The first book set outside of New York, as the six Bob-Whites travel to Arizona for Christmas.
I would've preferred Christmas in Sleepyside and couldn't imagine MY parents ever letting me go away during the holidays.2012 Read:I'm not overly fond of Julie Campbell's final contribution to the series she created, but with my vacation (and first visit) to Arizona upon me, I had to read Trixie Belden and the Mystery in Arizona.
I can't imagine ever being away from my family at Christmas and I can't imagine my parents ever willingly agreeing to it when I was a young teenager.
Trixie and the rest of the Bob-Whites are off to spend the Christmas holiday at Di's Uncle Monty's dude ranch in Arizona.
Uncle Monty's hired help mysteriously packed up in the middle of the night and left.
Some holiday!Even with all the work to be done, and Trixie's daily homework to complete, there is still time for some riding and picnicking, as well as a mystery to solve.This book is the first time all the Bob-Whites have traveled out of state together, so the change of surroundings was interesting.
– Most of a day’s read.Characters?
– Real world, pre - computer pre - air conditioning, pre - cell phone.Written approximately?
– 1958.Does the story leave questions in the readers mind?
Also, the absence of computers, cell phones, and air conditioning in homes, especially the mansion.Short storyline: Trixie Belden, Honey, Jim, and her brothers join Diana Lynch on her uncle's ranch in Arizona and struggle to help the three "difficult guests, and solve the mystery of the disappearance of the family who did all the work on the ranch.Notes for the reader: A great mystery!
This is the sixth book in the Trixie Belden mystery series.
I loved this series when I was in around 5th or 6th grade.
Trixie and her friends in the Bob White Club get to spend Christmas with Diana Lynch's uncle on his dude ranch in Arizona.
This book was written in 1958 and I'm pretty sure child labor laws existed then and Trixie and her friends are all 13 to 16 years old but hey they can run a dude ranch no problem :-).
It is fun to see what "dude ranches" were supposedly like in the late 50's.
Trixie and the gang head for Di's Uncle Monty's dude ranch in Arizona.
The trip turns out differently than expected when the gang has to go to work for Uncle Monty after members of his staff mysteriously leave.
(copied from The Trixie Belden Fan Website)** this is the first one I ever read of this series and I fell in love with the books and the writing!!!
:)My worse subject in school was Math, so I totally relate to Trix in this book!!!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Re-Read~November 10, 2013I LOVED re-reading this one.
I remembered WHY I loved these books from the first time I read this.
Di Lynch’s Uncle Monty has invited Trixie, Honey, and the rest of the Bob-Whites to his Arizona dude ranch for winter vacation.
She wants another mystery.I'd forgotten how much I enjoyed Trixie, Honey, and the Bobwhites as a youngster often re-reading these mysteries several times.
I know I read The Red Trailer Mystery 4 or 5 times.
These are clean, cozy mysteries with just enough mystery for young readers.
I particularly liked this one as young readers are exposed to the different cultures especially Indian and Hispanic as well as rodeo traditions as they read.
These older series were well written and can still be enjoyed by young readers today.
I didn't know what to expect when I started this Trixie Belden book, but what I found was a gateway back to a simpler time and a lot of good fun.
The Bob-whites go to an Arizona dude ranch for Christmas holiday and Trixie as always manages to find more than one mystery.I laughed with the Bob-Whites and wondered how they managed to stick together when they are constantly fighting.
You would also think that if Trixie manages to find mysteries all the time some one would listen to her, but they never do.
Trixie and the Bobwhites are off to Arizona to visit Uncle Monty on his dude ranch for a pleasant vacation, of course with Trixie around, there's not likely going to be much relaxing going on, not with her penchant for finding mysteries.
When the Dude Ranch's help mysteriously take off, leaving the ranch with no help, just before the Christmas holidays, the Bobwhites step in the fill their shoes, becoming, maids, waiter and cooks and of course delving in the the personal problems of the guests and other employees.
The Bob-Whites are given a trip to Tucson to spend Christmas on Diana Lynch's uncle's dude ranch.
When they arrive, Uncle Monty informs them that he'll have to close down as his cleaning and serving staff, all members of one family, have left suddenly.
Trixie impulsively offers the services of the Bob-Whites: the boys serve and the girls make beds and dust, and do dishes.
Trixie wonders what happened to the family and spends time thinking about it when she should be studying (she's failing math and English).
Trixie Belden and the Happy Valley Mystery is book number nine in the Trixie Belden mystery series. Trixie Belden and Honey Wheeler are best friends, horse lovers, and detectives who always seem to accidentally find a mystery waiting to be solved. In this book, the pair find themselves at Di Lynch's Uncle Monty's dude ranch. The friends help Uncle Monty with the ranch and earn $200 for their clubhouse because the family that usually manage the ranch mysteriously left.I love the Trixie Belden Mystery Series because it combines two of my favorite things - - horses and mystery!
I had a vague feeling of dread approaching this one, as if this had been my least favorite book of the series. Fortunately, not only was it not as painful as the last one, it undid some of the greatest sins of the prior book. Yes, there was no real threat, but they resolved a significant number of little dramatic challenges by talking to people. Additionally, it carries a clear lesson of the impacts of running out on problems, rather than talking them through. While not the strongest outing for the Bob Whites, still a light enjoyable read.
Trixie and her friends get to spend Christmas in Arizona and Di's uncle's dude ranch. Well, maybe. When they arrive, they learn that most of the staff has left. Can Trixie figure out why? And what is bothering three of the guests? This isn't a typical mystery, but I still like it anyway. The characters are strong and there are mysterious things going on. The only flaw in my mind is the travelogue chapter that lectures us on Arizona.Read my full review at Carstairs Considers.
The BWGs spend Christmas at Di's real uncle's dude ranch. Trixie is allowed to go as long as she studies math and English a little each day of the trip to prep for midterms. It may be viewed as 'cheesy' today, but my favorite part is how the guests at the ranch end up assuming the roles of the missing Orlandos, and in doing so, get out of the funk they were in.Oh, I think I also detected some jealousy from Jim when he saw Tenny taking an interest in Trixie.
Trixie and the girls were helping with housekeeping when they met up with one of the other guests on the ranch in her room. I remember about the fingernail polish on silver jewelry; I have yet to try that combination. Sometimes when I where silver jewelry too long, my skin does change a slightly different color.
Summary:A girl called Trixie Belden loves mysteries. She belongs to a club called the Bob-Whites of Glen(BWGs) on of the club member's, Diana Lynch's, uncle has called them for a trip to Arizona(his home)for Christmas. Di's dad, Mr.Lynch takes them by an airplane to Arizona. But when they reach there Di's uncle is not that happy. Read the book to find out the mystery and how Trixie solves it.
