https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1184142.The_Doctrine_of_Fascism
Incoherent bullshit. Could not finish it, even with its brevity.I had the author marked as a genocidal son of a bachelor long back. However, I did not know he was a terrible writer into the bargain.It is available free on the net; however, if you want to physically own bilge like this, it is available at a cost of eleven dollars plus on Amazon. Please buy it from there.Amazon would heartily approve of Mussolini. For example, his words  Anti-individualistic, the Fascist conception of life stresse
Please buy it from there.Amazon would heartily approve of Mussolini.
Anti-individualistic, the Fascist conception of life stresses the importance of the State and accepts the individual only in so far as his interests coincide with those of the State, which stands for the conscience and the universal, will of man as a historic entity.
Anti-individualistic, the Amazon conception of book reviews stresses the importance of the commercial interest of Amazon and accepts the reviewer only in so far as his interests coincide with those of Amazon, which stands for the conscience and the universal, will of the reader as a historic entity.
Short, sharp, to the point and in his own words, this serves well for an introduction to the ideology of fascism and you quickly realise why so many people bought into this method of power, best read for educational purposes only unless you have a boner for Benito (can't think why anyone would).
First published in the Enciclopedia Italiana of 1932 and written as an essay by Giovanni Gentile although the credit for the text goes to Mussolini.
For any youngsters out there that use the term 'fascist' in a derogatory fashion and don't even have a clue what it truly means please read this.
An important insight into a part of 20th century history that destroyed the lives of so many.
Such a unique, interesting and all-inspiring philosophical outlook on the world we live in, a world of perpetual struggle in which the Fascistic view is that we are born into challenge and that we must find our own will-to-power and overcome all forces of hindrance, by brutal force and direct action, by unity of people and faith in the unified state as a life form in of itself.
This book was extremely interesting to read, it made me realise that Fascism isn't just about totalitarianism and centralised power, it also made me realise that Fascism is as much a faith and philosophy of living as it is a political ideology.
Thus understood, Fascism is totalitarian, and the Fascist State - a synthesis and a unit inclusive of all values - interprets, develops, and potentates the whole life of a people.Now with individuals belittled and the State exalted, Mussolini seeks to justify his becoming the State's sole ruler.[I]t is the purest form of democracy if the nation be considered as it should be from the point of view of quality rather than quantity, as an idea, the mightiest because the most ethical, the most coherent, the truest, expressing itself in a people as the conscience and will of the few, if not, indeed, of one, and ending to express itself in the conscience and will of the mass, of the whole group ethnically molded by natural and historical conditions into a nation, advancing, as one conscience and one will, along the self same line of development and spiritual formation.Here's Mussolini's poop in a nutshell.
Civic Nationalism. Quotes Renan, inventor of Khazar theory.


Author's a rude twat. Killed a bunch of people over not agreeing with him about the doctrine in this book too.Fortunately, brave companies like Goodreads carry forward his noble spirit and legacy to our modern day, and abusive reviews like this one will soon be deleted.
More of an article than a book, this is short, concise and remarkably clear. One of my professors said in class that there is a fascist within each one of us. The question is, how much we allow it to express itself. Disturbing proposition. Read this book for a first hand account of how the fascist mind works.
"The so-called crisis can only be settled by State action and within the orbit of the State." - Benito Mussolini, Fascism Doctrine and InstitutionsSound familiar? Fascism, sadly, survives in modern political rhetoric. Everyone should read this so that they understand just how dangerously close we are to re-inventing the Fascist states that brought so much evil into the last century.
Better than expectedThough the book is short and does not go into great detail, it provides a great general overview of the Fascist worldview. Would recommend as a light, introductory read.
*Only for academic purpose*
Only by entering in to the process of reality and taking possession of the forces at work within it, can man act on man and on nature.""Fascism is therefore opposed to that form of democracy which equates a nation to the majority, lowering it to the level of the largest number; but it is the purest form of democracy if the nation be considered as it should be from the point of view of quality rather than quantity, as an idea, the mightiest because the most ethical, the most coherent, the truest, expressing itself in a people as the conscience and will of the few, if not, indeed, of one, and ending to express itself in the conscience and the will of the mass, of the whole group ethnically molded by natural and historical conditions into a nation, advancing, as one conscience and one will, along the self same line of development and spiritual formation.
"Whenever respect for the State declines and the disintegrating and centrifugal tendencies of individuals and groups prevail, nations are headed for decay."Like many idealistic (though Mussolini would have despised this characterization) we see the general elements of idealism after the disillusionment of liberal ideals.
His thought remains in flux between being against collectivism and for it; between fascism relying on majority support to ideas that the state should not be reduced to the majority.
There are some things that I agree with and there is something nice about having a political philosophy that doesn't have set policies, but the obsession with equating spiritual fulfillment with the state is offputting.
Rarely if ever have I been so disappointed in a text, in which it is argued that (the non-existent factor called) common sense is what should be allowed to inform our legal system and societies action against the individual. The author also speaks favourably about is state of perpetual warfare, to motivate advance, in both technological and social development. He does however say one thing which has just a hint of truth to it in which he does label the Roman Catholic church as being an institution which is closest to fascism.
Leaving aside all the historical meanders, subsequent geopolitical errors and evil connotations that have emerged afterward, this book contains a bunch of motivational and will-hardening moments that nicely verbalize a certain attitude towards life ("me ne frego!"). The chapters on the fascist visions of the economy, society and state are now only an addition, which someone might find historically interesting.
You a have one spghetti ita break You have many spghetti it no break
Uma obra subestimada que carrega valores e princípios que foram deixados de lado na era capitalista. Também traz a tona pensamentos coerentes contra o pacifismo como algo utópico e fora da realidade, além de apresentar, de forma parcial e introdutória, um sistema econômico alternativo ao capitalismo, com um olhar mais atento à relação por muitas vezes tumultuosa de patrão x empregado.
Do you want to understand how to stop the Left from destroying Western Civilization?
Libertarianism is part of the problem since capitalists in the free market are always looking for cheaper labor.
It's not Cultural Marxism so much that is the problem in the U.S. like many on the right believe but it is Cultural Capitalism.
I don't think there is any political system that is perfect given mans fallen nature but fascism is the best option available.
I think the big issue with it is it's imperialism.
Mussolini wanted to bring back the Roman empire and of course failed miserably.
The star rating given reflects my opinion within ‘the official goodreads rating system’.1 star: Didn’t Like it2 stars: It’s Okay3 stars: Liked it4 stars: Really Liked it5 stars: It Was AmazingI don’t really give a rat-fuck that there are some who think I ‘owe’ an explanation for my opinion.
I do this for me, on my books, in my library and I don’t ‘owe’ any special snowflakes a thing.
Fuck off if you don’t like it and stop reading my shit.Particularly given the ‘modifications’ to reader’s personal content going on (and outright censorship), unless particularly motivated I will not comment in detail.
Typographical errors and not making any note, in the book, of Giovanni Gentile's significant contributions hold this edition back.
As far as the content, if you're looking for "Il Duce" in his own words as he wants to present himself, this is among the best starting points.
All this aside, it is still a helpful historical document for the young student looking to get some intimation of what fascism might be and how it differs from other doctrines of the period, like socialism and liberalism.
"Yes, there were discussions; but more importantly, death".
Life is war, death before giving up faith, suicide is no solution under the state, bandage your wounds with a "I don't give a damn".
Passivity is not an option, action, deny equality and happiness - do not be an animal.
Democracy is the terror reign of many kings, Nature is general not spesific - not the vulgar masses, not the liberal property-owning, the agnostics: Our God is the Ascetic and life for a cold moral of the state is the only thing there is.Yes. I see why this might be inspiring.

Wisdom will be incomplete unless you understand polarities.
And I shall not truly mean 'in-dividual' unless I dare to understand divisions and have my own opinion on 'reason for the crossroads' ; and politics is no exception.
It was worth a read and has profoundly altered my understanding of Fascism as a propaganda than the general conception of it as an adjective to denote anything and everything that seemingly defies an established social order.
Reads like these are of immense importance in all ages, especially sets a base to understand the history pre and post to 1789.
Written with much passion and very easy to follow. A system that is believable, and never once mentions racism. For those of you who know your history, Hitler is the one who established racism in Italy. Mussolini's arm was twisted and had to tell his Jewish officials to step down. German SS officials ran their own police force in Italy to create concentration camps. So do not turn a blind eye to this brilliant work, please.
I completely disagree with fascism, yet, I can't help but rate this book/pamphlet 3 stars. I have to admit that there are certain aspects of fascism which are psychologically attractive. One knows it is wrong yet one is attracted in some subconscious way to it.
Eh, Benito-Benito, why don't you believe in unions and happiness?
Eloquently written, but also wrong.
failed philosophy, interesting because of that
Read only for academic purposes.
