https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/955950.Naughty_Amelia_Jane_
All the store-bought toys in the nursery are always well behaved, but homemade Amelia Jane is always up to tricks.Amelia Jane can never be good for more than one week.
Through the actions of Amelia Jane it is very easy to highlight the dangers of being naughty and playing tricks, which would be helpful when teaching children about right and wrong.
Also, no matter how naughty Amelia Jane has been, the other toys in the nursery always help her when she is in trouble or frightened, teaching the lesson 'treat others as you would like to be treated'.Overall it is a very good book, with lots of lessons hidden in each chapter.
I remember reading this book as a child and enjoying it.
This is one book which thought me not to judge a book by its cover because when my mom first gave it to me, I said "mom, this looks so boring" and I was obviously wrong.
I have always been a big fan of Enid Blyton and have always enjoyed her most of her books like 'Thirteen O'Clock' and '12 silver cups' but the Amelia Jane series is very different.
This is the sort of book any growing up child should read.
It has very simple grammar and the book has something very catchy about it, and if you have never read it, now is the time.
I thought Naughty Jane would completely reform or be taken away by the children so that the other dolls could love in peace.But I still like the fact she scars her hand and she will always remember that she got it by being naughty and mean
Enid Blyton used to be my fav author whn i was 10..!!!
I would give this doll away but Amelia Jane’s redeeming feature is that she does accept her mistakes and consequences. She doesn’t seem to learn lessons from them which makes these stories enjoyable to children. These stories popular with kids who like that she is not perfect.
This is one Maggie's favorites.
Because Amelia was naughty but she does truly have a good spirit.I read this with my 8 year old daughter.
We are huge fans of the Faraway Tree and when we saw this Enid Blyton book at a friend's house, we knew we needed to read it.
A similar storyline to Toy Story yet their is a mischievous handmade doll who knowingly wreaks havoc in the toy room.
Honestly Amelia Jane's antics are slightly outdated but my daughter enjoyed them anyway.
The language is simple enough that she helped me read.
The above review was written by my daughter.
read this as a child and it was very good but Amelia Jane scared me alot.
Revisiting the books of my youth out of a feeling of nostalgia! I loved Enid Blyton when I was younger and can't wait to re-read these with my own children.
The cover looked all right, and I liked Enid Blyton's 'The Naughtiest Girl in the School' series, so I got it.
Before reading it, I thought Amelia Jane was a real person, not a doll!
I adore books about naughty little kids, they're usually so good and funny.
If you're looking for good books about misbehaving children, try 'Le petit Nicolas', 'Horrid Henry' or the series by Enid Blyton mentioned above.
If you actually want an outdated book about a naughty dolly in a kiddie's nursery that was written in the late 1930's, go ahead and read this.
When I first read these I remember being appalled by just how naughty Amelia Jane is.
In 2014, it was the Toys who really got on my nerves.
It was like they all had some kind of Stockholm Syndrome: they kept forgiving her and even put themselves at risk one time to rescue that silly-arse girl.
I would have just let girlfriend deal with the consequences and deal with herself.
I guess it's a good job I don't live in a toy box.
But if I ever find myself in one, and that cow Amelia Jane is there, that chick better check herself.

Naughty Amelia Jane was a kind of a interesting and a funny book .its about a girl named Amelia Jane she as the most naughty doll in the toys.She was the most giant doll. All the other toys were from a shop so they were very well-mannered but Amelia Jane was picked out from the garbage so she was very rude to the toys.She always does some very naughty things that the toys think that she is very rude.So it was amazing book.
Aw my dad used to read this to me as a child.
Amelia Jane is a very naughty doll, described as The Terror of the Toy Cupboard, who goes around being an absolute horror to the other toys. But not only the other toys - she snips Nanny's carpet, curtain and favourite handkerchief.This book is brilliant, for six-to-nine-year-olds. I recommend it highly - very highly.
This series is very disturbing to adults but to a child, it nicely plays out all those not so nice aggressive feelings in the world of toys. This series inspired me to make my own verbal sequels to the adventures and terrorization of Amelia Jane called "Amelia Bad-elia" -- yes, even as a pre-teen I had stigmatized Amelia Jane as bad but redeemable by her need to be loved.
I don't remember reading this book earlier. It is a cute and funny book about a naughty doll. I am sure I will make my son read this book as it is too good. But whether the already naughty boy will learn some naughty tricks from Amelia, or learn to be good since Amelia got into trouble every time she was naughty, time will tell. I enjoyed reading this as an adult too.
its a r. naughty book hahaha
I don't remember a lot about this one, beyond the fact that I definitely read it as a kid.
This book is about a naughty girl
She's realy mean
best
Amazing childhood stories.
very funny
When toys turn out to be naughtier than their owners
I have read this book to my class of 6-7 Year olds and they all loved every single story!
funny
I used to love this book when i was little :)
I read this book back when I was in primary and I enjoyed it. Enid Blyton used to be my fav author
A nostalgic tale that takes me back to my childhood.
Become a 10year old again!! Toys that talk,walk n make you laugh boisterously.
