https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8372340-tickets-please
It's funny how Lawrence framed the working women at a certain era in England, right after World War I, he brought up the atmosphere of work, and how it was unusual to women at the time, and also cared to discuss the relation between the two genders, the acts of vengeance and defending one's pride.The story is very well written.
It is a fun, very short read. It is set in industrial 1919 England where young women and men workers enjoy a sense of freedom and adrenaline working in the risky tramway business.The themes are: genders' relationships, promiscuity, revenge, pride, and shame.I am excited to discuss it in class next week (Modern Fiction class).
Всъщност имам доста стара книга със събрани истории на Лорънс (която не съществува в Goodreads, защото е дело на българските комунистически издателства), но тъй като "Tickets, Please!" е първият разказ в сборника и е един от двата, които ми бяха поне интересни, рецензията я пиша тук."Tickets, Please!" е доста особена история, не съм чел преди как група жени пребиват мъж, защото е спал с тях, без да завърже връзка постфактум.
Само дето лисицата убива кокошки, а войникът убива другата жена, като нарочно изсича едно дърво и изчислява (тук малко нереалистично стана с тези сметки, все пак не е Rain Man човекът, но това няма нищо общо) как ще я удари във врата.
He managed to elaborate on a set of themes such as genders' relations, the ghost of industrial revolution, crippled men, war, and sexuality--from the starting sequence up till the end of the story.
This shift, or let's say this unexpected transition in fiction, was what gave D.
In a sense, it doesn't contribute to the gender question deeply; it rather raises it, and even--as I see it--devotes the status of depressed women.
H. Lawrence was like: "Hey, dear Women!
One thing I didn't like when reading the story is the transition from one sequence to another--from one scene to another.
This story was good, I think. I guess it must have been wierd being a young man working in England during the Great War. 90% of the men were away on the continent fighting, and all this man's co-workers were women. He was no saint, but those women... Guess he should have seen it coming from a mile away. Quick, violent, and to-the-point.
"They fear nobody and everybody fears them."
Good short story. John Joseph most definitely gets what he deserves and not for a moment are the girls too hard on him...
I am biased. He is one of my all time favourite writer. For me his extraordinary talent is in presenting the most complex psychological dramas of sexes, of relationships, of politics, of life and death in a perfectly poetic way. The reader is so captivated by the romance of the language that their seems absolutely no trouble in grasping the depth of the psychological themes.Characterisation in his works is again very animated. Sometimes not iconic but,his characters are surely always impressively real. Lastly like joyce for me Lawrence's works always afford an epiphanic moment. Yay!
على الأغلب ما كنت لأقرأ هذه القصة القصيرة لو لم أكن سأمتحن فيها ، لكن في النهاية أعترف أنها ليست سيئ
Frankly I wasn't thinking of who DH Lawrence was I when picked this short story to read.
Only read about him on the cover part afterward.It's a good story.
And the points across was also nice and clearly delivered: the culture change, the bleak facet of industrialism, women's standings -due or not due to the war- , are some of them.I don't know about Lawrance's other writings, but I like him already because of the last sentence of this short story: (view spoiler)[ The girls continued in silence to dress their hair and adjust their clothing, as if he had never existed.
Hilarious!
