https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/647121.Angel
***Just to be clear there are two Elizabeth Taylors. One is the famous actress, and the other is the British writer. Elizabeth Taylor the writer has been mentioned by several accomplished writers as one of the most underrated writers of the 20th century. Let’s do something about that, shall we?*** Elizabeth Taylor”It seems to me that what Elizabeth Taylor does is to de-romanticise the process of writing and show it to us close up, so that we are aware of that if ten percent of the process is exh
”She had never cared much for books, because they did not seem to be about her, and she thought that she would rather write a book herself, to a pattern of her own choosing and about a beautiful young girl with a startling white skin, heiress to great property, wearing white pique at Osborne and tartan taffetas at Balmoral.”It is madness, really, to think that a seventeen year old girl, with little to no personal experience, with no real knowledge of the day to day activities of people, could write an epic novel about duchesses, counts, and the wealthy elite, and yet she does.
And Hilary Mantel writes a brilliant Introduction, concluding with this interpretation:One could argue that the author is showing us Angel as an awful warning; that she is telling us "this is how bad art is made." But I don't think the book is as simple as that.
I don't know any, not in real life.Then there it was, midway through the book, Taylor imagining Angel's thoughts: She had to become a different person before she could endure it, and she was not always able, even for the love of Esmé, to make the change.
I think Taylor wrote this -- for Esmé, with love and squalor.
I hadn't heard of Elizabeth Taylor (the novelist) until just a couple of months ago when New York Review of Books re-issued two of her novels, this one and another one.
Angel, the main character in the story, is a humorless sort, who writes novels about the way she thinks the world is, her first being the way she sees Lords and Ladies living in opulent homes, while she lives in a slum.
If Angel were alive today she would probably be self-publishing barely edited novels and populating message boards complaining about the possibility that someone was going to illegally download her novel, steal a pittance of royalties in between trolling review sites like goodreads to attack reviewers who point out how awful her books are.
I don't usually go looking for meaning, but I thought maybe I should and then I glanced at the ratings of my GR friends who've read this and wondered why my reaction was different from theirs.Angel's main, unchanging trait is her unrealistic view of the real world.
after writing this review and then rereading Tony's review, which I'd totally forgotten, thinking I'd discovered this volume first out of all my GR friends (yeah, right, such is the sign of an aging memory), I see he'd figured it all out already: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...I also find that by this odd process of writing (though mine here is not an imaginative one as Taylor writes of) I've gotten more out of this odd novel than I originally thought.
Those are the two things that come to my mind when thinking of this book.
Angel's biggest wish is to become a writer, and so she begins to write her first novel at the age of 15.
Angel is such a remarkable character, and her stubbornness often made me smile.
This book is definitely worth a read if you like stories about writing, growing up and surviving life.
It was one of those books that didn't keep me glued to its pages while reading it, but thinking back on it I can't help but appreciate it - as well as its main character - a lot.
The people with whom she interacts have their own needs and desires and, while a reader could argue that no one's there for the right (whatever that means) reasons, I found myself concurrently understanding and recoiling from the characters.
But some of us, probably most, fade away.Angel was a discovery, the kind of book (and I don't do this often) I want to push on other people, women especially, because I want to hear what they think.
And while I wouldn't want to hang out with the title character, I....I don't know how I feel about her.
At the slightest air of censure in the world about her, up had gone the barricades, the strenuous resistance begun by which she was preserved in her own imagination, beautiful, clever, successful and beloved.(226)Virginia Woolf fans who have read her feminine discourse A Room of One's Own might note Woolf's female paradigm incandescently recreated and molded here by Elizabeth Taylor - a new favorite woman writer for me.Angel is a loosely historical novel in that it is based on the career of best selling author Marie Corelli: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marie_Co...I was so intrigued by Angel that I'm sure I will be digging up some of Marie Corelli's novels -I think I'm in for some light reading and a chuckle.
Meet Angelica Deverell, a poor, working class girl who lives mostly in her head (which is full of dramatic, romantic daydreams), and has no empathy for other people.Angelica (Angel) decides that she wants to be a famous novelist, and although she does not read and has shown no interest in literature previously, she relentlessly works towards her goal.
None of what I told you seems true to me and I know that one day I shall stop believing in it.Angel sometimes has short, panicky identity crises throughout her life, where she suddenly realizes an uncomfortable truth, but she always manages to push these away and sink back into her fantasy world.
“It means ‘the highest heavens’.” “Yes, the sky,” Miss Dawson said suspiciously.--This is our introduction to Angelica Deverell, the romantic, weirdly self-possessed young novelist who claims she spends her free time playing the harp and never met a Thesaurus word she didn’t love.
There’s an egotism inherent to the craft, and while Angel exhibits a bloated, grotesque form of it, the sins Taylor attributes to Angel — inflated self-regard, a reflexive indifference to others, absorption in fantasy — could also be considered occupational hazards of a life devoted to fiction.In the second half of the novel, the continued success of Angel’s books leads toward the realization of her childhood dreams and Paradise House.
She wrote 12 novels and four books of short stories (many published in the New Yorker), collected in one volume by Virago Press in 2012.The London Times calls her work “extremely funny, incisive, sympathetic and beautifully written...it can also make us squirm with uneasy recognition...wicked and subversive.” In an appreciation article in the Guardian, Charlotte Mendelson calls her a “writer’s writer” and likens her to Elizabeth Bowen, Anne Tyler and even Jane Austen.
A final problem Mendelson proposes relates to women’s fiction generally: it is often confined to the domestic sphere, which means it is considered to be of lesser importance than male literary fiction.I hadn’t read anything by Taylor until 2012, when Angel (1957) was a preliminary selection for my work book club.
Angel(ica) Deverell lives with her widowed shopkeeper mother in a non-descript Midlands town, visited by her mother’s sister almost lifelong maid to the mistress of a nearby manor house.
To escape her everyday life Angel invents fantasies to herself based around the manor house and her connection to it.
To his astonishment she point blank refuses and he then takes a gamble on publishing it – finding it a huge hit, panned by the critics (to Angel’s fury) it is loved by non-literary readers and (for reasons of entertainment) by literary readers.
Angel, the eponymous central character, writes overblown romances that sell in vast numbers and provoke eternal derision from most of the publishing world.
She is an egotistical monster who doesn't feel the need to read other people's books, or any obligation to get her facts right (when the publisher gently suggests that she should change the scene where a character opens a bottle of champagne with a corkscrew, she flounces away).
Although she is grotesque in many ways, the book has a heart.
Her fame, fortune and attempts at romance bring out her unusual character in endless fascinating ways; the plot romps along.
Elizabeth Taylor (1912-1975) was an English author born in Reading, Berkshire, who wrote in the mid-1900s and seems to be so little known today that finding a copy of this book required a bit of a search: there were no copies in our library system and only used copies seemed to be available online.
But this one was a bit different: it advertised a world-wide program called bookcrossing.com whose intent is to release books 'into the wild' to be found and read by other readers.
In spite of Angel's difficult personality, the reader with imagination and a turn for the pen will sympathize with her situation, at least until she sells a novel in her mid-teens, and promptly rockets to the best seller status.A while back, I was reading a review in Guardian about the diaries of Alison Uteley, a respected children's author who lived in the same city as Enid Blyton.
They apparently met outside a bookshop once, and A.U. said something condescending, after which Blyton pointed to the window and her books, and trumped the other by saying something to the effect of "At least I get read."Angel hits the bigtime, and promptly starts believing herself to have become one of her own heroines.
The beginning of the novel and the portrayal of Angel’s early life was by far my favourite part of this wonderful novel.“Angel often felt jolted when the girls stopped at their gate; partly, from having forgotten them; partly, from having to transfer herself too quickly from Paradise House to this mean district with warehouses and factories and great brooding gas holders…..Halfway down Volunteer Street was a row of shops: a fish-and-chip shop from which children were running with hot greasy parcels; a newsagent’s a chemist’s where light from the interior glowed feebly through three glass bottles of red and green and violet liquid and coloured the bowls of senna pods and sulphur lying in the window.
La scrittrice crea un personaggio iconico: Angel Deverell è a sua volta una scrittrice e una donna che vive di grandi illusioni. Abile manipolatrice, riesce a diventare una scrittrice famosa ma di romanzetti. Il romanzo ripercorre la sua parabola, dalla sua decisione di scrivere alla perdita dell'ispirazione e alla vita sopra le righe che vive fino all'ultimo giorno. Un personaggio che si apprezza per la spregiudicatezza, si compatisce per l'ingenuità e l'ostinazione nel vedere solo ciò che vuole e, a tratti, si odia per la crudeltà che riesce ad infliggere a chi le vuole bene.
Somewhere towards the end of Angel  by Elizabeth Taylor, the character of the same name says (coldly): "I am never embarrassed." That could be the leit motif of one of the most embarrassingly hideous and fascinating (a friend described her as "odious" which is perfect) characters I think I've ever read about.
Kind of (tritely) like a train wreck, you just can't stop reading about her, to see what awful thing she will write or think or do next.
But deep down, I think we're always afraid that Angel IS us, which makes her story all the more engaging; you read for clues about yourself and your own wellness and well being.
To escape from her dreary life, Angel begins to write: novels which she sees as great literature, but which are in truth extravagant, melodramatic, fantastical schlock.
It would have been very easy for Taylor to do that, to make Angel a caricature and poke fun at her writing.
Here's how one of the other characters describes Angel's books:"He had thought the novel, with its confusion of Greek and Roman deities, its high-flown language, its extravagance, tiresome in the extreme, and he had only ventured on it from curiosity; but some of the white-heat in which it was created struck back at him from its pages; he could understand how less sophisticated readers would be carried away, beyond criticism of all the inaccuracies and probabilities."Taylor isn't interested in poking fun; she wants to show what kind of mind might create that sort of book.
Elizabeth Taylor is a hugely underrated author in my view.
Angel is a dark entrancing tale of a working class girl's who transcends the circumstances of her background through her fiction.
She becomes wealthy and famous but is unable to make genuine emotional connections with those around her and lives in a fantasy removed from the actual nature of what is happening.
Taylor uses the device of pathetic fallacy to great effect and there are some beautiful descriptions of nature in city and country.
The final scenes at the ironically named Paradise House are reminiscent of a dark fairy tale.
The protagonist of Angel is one of the least self-aware and most unappealing characters you can imagine.
In spite of, or perhaps because of not having any real talent, but by dint of sheer determination and audacious self-belief she fulfills her dream of becoming a best selling author.
She spins tales of which one of them is the tale of her own very unreal life, her life is what she imagines it to be.
And yet again in spite of, or perhaps because of this, I felt very sorry for her at the end of her life, which was quite an achievement by Elizabeth Taylor.
She comes to the same end that we all do.
I really enjoyed this book about Angel's determination to write and to achieve her dream life. It was an achievement to make reading about this character so enjoyable, as Angel wasn't a character you could love or empathise with. I really look forward to reading more of this author's work.
But the author is trying to write a different type of novel, something more analytical, Angel is horrible and hateful but always a real person, with vulnerabilities and emotions.
As usual the introductions are very interesting and help to put the book in perspective, but as usual they think nothing of giving the plot and any surprises away.
I hate that, interesting as the introductions are, a novel is still a novel and readers should have a right to be able ( if they so wished) to read them "cold", all the plot and characters a discovery to make on their own.
dit is een perfect geschreven boek.
iedere zin is goed getroffen en je voelt ieder woord.dat is ook meteen het probleem met dit boek.Angel is namelijk een, om het zacht uit te drukken, lastig persoon.
wel van de schrijfstijl, want zoals gezegd: perfect.toch zuchtte ik iedere keer weer als ik dit boek oppakte, gewoon omdat ik zo'n moeite had met Angel.lastig dilemma dus: wat is belangrijker, hoeveel plezier je beleeft aan een verhaal, of hoezeer je het schrijven bewondert?
ik heb de volgende conclusie getrokken: hoe fantastisch zou een boek zijn als het een feelgood roman was, geschreven door Elizabeth Taylor?
I love everything I've ever read by Elizabeth Taylor, but Angel takes the cake.
Not only does she become a world-famous author, but she earns the money to buy a great English estate.
And not just any English estate, mind you: The estate she was expected to work for as a maid by her dumb old family.
After pissing away her fortune, Angel is left to wander her broken-down house in shabby ball gowns, selling off her jewelry and furniture.
Fortunately, she is oblivious to her reduced circumstances, thanks to her ever-growing army of cats.
A thoroughly satisfying read.
Taylor seems a little dated, but her humor is still pretty delectable.
Angel is an insufferable and precocious sixteen-year-old who tells imaginative fabricated stories of a regal, but tragic family history involving Paradise House, a local castle.
Unable to endure school any longer, she takes to writing novels; flowery and ridiculous romance novels.
And our little heroine, an incredibly successful novelist, finally attains Paradise house; literally.
Unfortunately, by the end of Angel’s story Paradise has become more like Grey Gardens and Angel, like Edie Beale.
I clearly have way too much time on my hands.
Not THAT Elizabeth Taylor; this one is an early to mid-twentieth-century British novelist.
She wants to be a novelist and, strangely enough, she becomes one, penning her first preposterous romance, The Lady Irania, at the age of 15.
Here is a girl/woman strangely self-possessed (at times for very good reason), but with almost no understanding of how others see her and a profound inability to either change or recognize that life is not as she sees it.
This makes for a pretty amazing combination and for that I loved Angel.
Angel is like a less pretty but far smarter Undine Spragg.
So when she channels these, and her frustration with her entire low-middle class family life, into writing gigantic, extravagant, trashy turn of the century novels, you'd expect her to get some sort of obvious comeuppance and develop into a more mature person.
She has no idea why she is still so unhappy.Notes:- Marie Corelli is mentioned several times, if that gives you an idea of Angel's genre.- I kind of got a Grey Gardens-y impression of the picture by the end.
She is living in cramped conditions over a corner shop which her mother owns.
Angel suffers from grandiose tendencies and she escapes her unsatisfactory reality by inventing fantasies and living mostly in her dream world.
She spends one evening writing in an exercise book and decides that she has found her vocation as a famous writer.
Angel's world changes over the years but her character does not.
This was a wonderfully written book about a self-deluded, destructive character and Elizabeth Taylor was commenting on the writer's world with a dark, amusing story.
Angelica Deverell is a hard person to spend time with - this goes for all of the characters in the book and also for the reader.
Initially the appeal is the comic absurdity (and it is VERY funny at times).
However, I found as the book went on that the total integrity of Angel's character along with the extraordinarily realistic rendering of her personality by the author, made me feel increasing empathy and she ended up being the most "real" character I've ever come across (view spoiler)[ - basically a study in how an eccentric recluse comes about, and I literally cried my eyes out at the ending (hide spoiler)].
Remarkable and stunning, I'm sooo looking forward to reading more Elizabeth Taylor...
Hmm... Elizabeth Taylor is a wonderful writer and her prose is just as beautiful in this novel. She depicts a situation that is uncomfortable at best. The characters are drawn with precision and full of imperfection and their lives coloured with tragedy. Angel is someone that I found it hard to spend time with and therefore I cannot say that I enjoyed the read. I did persevere and I am glad that I did.
