https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2702376-they-were-sisters
Dorothy Whipple was an amazing writer. Her characterisations are second to none. Every character, even the minor ones, were written with such exquisite detail. And the story as it unfolded…oh this book absolutely floored me. I did not know what it was about when I picked it up in the library. I just knew that I had enjoyed Someone at a Distance by the same author and I had to read more of her writings.  “It seems as if when we love people and they fall short, we retaliate by falling shorter ours
I guess I like to think that feminism and feminist writing is a modern thing but both this book and a recent non-fiction work I read, A Notable Woman have made it painfully clear that I am an idiot in thinking like this!I have to describe the handling of the domestic abuse storyline.
I think the simplest thing to say is no one ever truly knows what is going on inside someone else’s head, what happens behind their closed doors, how abusers can have such psychological and emotional power over their victims.
I read this massive chunk of a book in two sittings.
I am so thankful to Persephone books for re-releasing her work to a wider audience.
I have only read 2 of her other books but I adore her style of writing.'They were sisters' follows the lives of three sisters - Lucy, Charlotte and Vera.
Lucy is the 'mother' of the group, always looking out for the other two and being available at the drop of a hat.
1 sister is happy, 2 are not, and this is the story of how those marriages shape the sister's later lives.
I ADORED this.
Absolutely delightful! I read this book like a cat laps cream and loved every minute. Brilliantly written, it has wonderfully deep characters which carry the very poignant story forward to a satisfying end. I recommend this book to all my friends and will definitely try to get my hands on the other novels Dorothy Whipple wrote. And thank you, Claude, for introducing me to this excellent author!P.S. At the end of the novel, the Afterword by Celia Brayfield makes good reading too.
On the surface Dorothy Whipple's characters do indeed move in 'ordinary' domestic worlds set during an era dominated by preoccupations of times long distant from ours.
Any reader who thinks they could guess what will unfold from that visit would be mistaken.Dorothy Whipple writes with such a lightness of touch, but has a razor-eye for human flaws.
Everyone in this novel, from the sisters, to their various husbands and children, is utterly believable.
Dorothy Whipple is both so accomplished and so respected in the literary world that it is hard to believe she is not more widely known.
No matter this is set from 1918-39, she still captures the truth in people and their relationships.I'm the eldest in a family with three daughters, like Lucy in They Were Sisters.
I can't imagine a day when the tense changes to she was my sister.
My worst future day (hide spoiler)].Whipple wields extraordinary strength in character development.
So, even though (view spoiler)[Lucy failed their mothers (I mean, she was in her 20s, give her a break), and she failed at reproducing, she succeeded in offering a stable home with love and becoming a guardian over them, the two girls have a chance (hide spoiler)]...
I would very rarely rate a book this high--and I'm wondering at myself.
I am not likely to re-read this book, and until now, I have only rated re-reads this high.
I wish there had been more tender moments in the book.
The story is saved by the tender moments, and I could have used more of them.
But those tender moments do come at just the right points.
Everything seems to come at just the right point.I'm grateful to my friend, Dee Nash, for recommending Dorothy Whipple, and for Persephone Books for republishing this classic writer of the 1940s.
Apart from those small details this novel remains as topical today as it ever was.
It concerns the slow destruction of a once happy woman; Charlotte married to a man who turned out to be a vile bully.
Charlotte's sisters, Lucy, dependable, supportive and nurturing is happily, but quietly and childlessly married to William.
This excellent Dorothy Whipple novel re published by Persephone takes a poignant look at what today might be called disfunctional families - the unhappiness of children caught up in the destruction brought about by adults is keenly felt.
I adored this book about three middle-class Midlands sisters, their marriages, and their children.
Lucy has to take charge of her younger siblings when her mother dies.
The brothers soon disappear from the pages, but we follow the three girls over the next 20 years as they marry three very different men.Vera's beauty is her undoing; Charlotte's bullying husband is hers; and Lucy is better off because of the positive attitude she has to her husband and her life, though it lacks a lot of the apparent advantages and interests of her sisters' lives.I think this is my favourite Dorothy Whipple so far ...
but I think I've said that before, so maybe there are still more delights to come.
This tendency to 'mother' and worry over her younger siblings becomes a central part of Lucy's character; and when a middle-aged marriage proves childless, it falls to Lucy to play a maternal role in the lives of her younger sisters, Vera and Charlotte, and their children.This novel provides an in-depth and often unsettling look into three different marriages - and the unhappiness of the children who are at the mercy of erratic, inadequate and sometimes downright cruel parents.
Although some readers (particularly younger ones) might think the husbands in this novel are an extinct species, I think the emotional abuse that Whipple depicts so vividly is still a sad fact of some lives.Emotionally harrowing, but unputdownable - and unforgettable, too.

Each sister being a Goldilocks and having married either an extreme of husband or one right in the middle (Lucy).The story around Geoffrey and Charlotte was particularly disturbing and shows how women no longer being seen as, or treated by law as, chattels has huge implications for mental health of both women and their children.But thank goodness for childless aunts, Lucy is relentless in trying to 'save' Judith and then Sarah and the book ends with a strong feeling of hope for their futures.Will be hunting down more books by Dorothy Whipple.
My second Whipple and a riveting read. She portrays lives and marriages so well, and so chillingly.
Great storytelling and such interesting characters, including a great villain. I just want to read more books by Dorothy Whipple.
As often for Whipple, the plot is a little scattershot, but the characterization is so marvelously vivid that it doesn't make a bit of difference.
I did not reread this in full, but I loved the charming foray it gave into my reading past. Whipple is a marvellous author; I would highly recommend her (and this book!) to everyone.
A generation before Whipple wrote this, George Gissing took on some of the same themes in his brilliant novel, The Odd Women. In both books, women torture themselves, men bully and toy with them, and worst of all, children suffer the consequences of their parents' sins. Gissing's book ends in death and tears, yet somehow Whipple manages to end on a happy note - some of her young heroes get saved from the wreckage of adult mistakes. James Mason starred in the 1945 movie version, and it was one of his best, creepiest roles.
Dorothy Whipple was such an incredible writer that I am ashamed to admit I only discovered a few months ago. Her characterisation is superb and she creates an atmosphere so tangible that I lose myself in it within seconds!! Can't wait to read something else by her!
Dorothy Whipple was a terrific writer. So happy to have discovered her. I couldn't put this book down.
Some aspects of her work seem dated now, but I wonder how long it takes for that to be OK or even of interest; maybe fifty years?
I think her time has come.
This novel is set before World War II, but while reading about our resourceful, brogue-wearing heroine, who is neighborly to humans and hedgehogs alike and unfailingly able to take the long view, I kept thinking about the fact that it was published in 1944.
As in Whipple’s other novels, “the country” is depicted as the natural habitat of England’s finest (yet ever modest) values.
Really engaging read; quite hard to take sometimes in its relentless following through of dysfunctional relationships at a time when women were not in much of a position to leave unhappy marriages. The disaster of Charlotte's marriage (and its tragic consequences) was honestly depicted without the possibility of a "happy ending" despite the good intentions of sister Lucy. A reminder that adults have to make their own choices and that sometimes these are terrible, both for themselves, and for their children and relatives.
A little long in the tooth, but this story about three sisters who live very different lives is very nuanced--what I am coming to expect from Whipple. There is a particularly vile villain, in the form of a despotic husband and father, that dominates the book--you cringe or want to scream with fury with his every scene. I really wanted to know what happened to these women. Persephone does it again.
Three sisters: one connected, happy in herself; another remote and independent; the third hounded by a brutal husband, to alcoholism and death. It's not a pretty story but it is true and I suspect common. I like Whipple's writing; it conveys meaning efficiently. Her work should be better known.
Beautifully written and surprisingly potent. Loved it.
4.5
Apparently Whipple was a best-selling novelist between the wars, but I'd never heard of her.
Only Lucy, ironically the childless sister, is able to provide this, from the base of her comfortable loving marriage.
Whipple shows us how when the sons of the family go off the rails, they are simply handed lump sums and packed off to live life as they choose in Canada.
And Lucy spends the rest of her life trying to somehow pick up the pieces of her sisters' failing lives.There's not much of a plot here; it's the characters and relationships that keep you spellbound, just as they do in EJH novels.
Timid Lucy marries the capricious, sadistic Geoffrey, Vera the beauty of the family marries for money but soon finds her life too confining.
The story really takes off in the 30s when the sisters are reunited at Charlotte’s house; here the ways in which their choices have forged their characters and shaped their lives are explored.
They are useful comparisons, there is a hint of Chekhov’s 'Three Sisters' in the portrayal of these siblings, and of Austen in the approach to charting their everyday lives overlaid by the restraints of marriage, particularly in Whipple’s portrait of Charlotte.
They often link to articles in that section, and one was about Dorothy Whipple, the "1930s Jane Austen." This was the recommended book to begin with and I'm so glad I had a chance to read this work by an author I had never previously known about.They Were Sisters is the story of three sisters (they have brothers who figure very little in the story).
The book follows their lives and troubles with emphasis on how Lucy, still trying to mother her sisters and, eventually, their children, deals with her sisters' bad choices.As an eldest sister myself, though with far less responsibility, I resonated to Lucy's challenges and her essentially good heart.
<3 I loved this book.
The way she wrote about the magical experiences of childhood was particularly heart-warming (such as the relationship between Stephen and his dog, Margaret’s first experience with young love, or Judith’s innocent observations of a complex world).
Finally, They Were Sisters serves as an important (and often needed) reminder that we cannot always save others from the destruction of their decisions—they make choices for themselves.
Perhaps all we can do is forgive, keep our hearts open, and do our best to serve as the “beacon to bring [them] to harbor”.
The focus is on the three sisters Lucy, Vera, and Charlotte and how their lives unfold through the choices they make and the limited power of middle class women at the time.Dorothy Whipple’s writing is evocative and provides a voice for these women that feels real and is enduring in the mind of the reader.
Lucy’s inability to help her sister or her sister’s children is heartbreaking.At the same time, there are also themes of responsibility, love in many forms, and hope.
Lucy is responsible for her sister’s after the death of her mother and often thinks in terms of choices and repercussions.
Whipple is a master at writing about how women cope with their circumscribed worlds.
Successfully wringing the truth from her characters, however, meant drawing daily lives which inevitably dramatised the struggles of feminism and the collapse of the class system.I read Whipple's The Priory just before this one and they are both excellent, but I think I liked this one just a bit better.
It's darker, but I like the contrasting of three women from the same family and how their family role and their looks affected them and their kids over the years.
