https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8171378-the-warmth-of-other-suns
Wilkerson made the decision to research why African Americans left the south, and over the next three years would interview countless migrants and their descendants to pinpoint and shed light on an often overlooked era in American history.
Between 1919 and 1970 millions of African Americans left their bleak lives and ended up in northern cities, giving themselves and their children hope for the future.
Wilkerson chose for her subjects three people, one each who migrated to New York, Chicago, and Los Angeles in search of attaining the American dream.Ida Mae Brandon Gladney left Mississippi in 1937 and ended up in Chicago where she would live until her death in 2004.
Thinking back, I tried to recall some of the migrations that took place within America that I had learned about:- The Gold Rush- The Dustbowl MigrationSomewhere along the lines, my teachers forgot to mention the approximately six million people that left the Jim Crow South during 1915-1975, in search of a “kinder mistress”, and that they summoned up the courage, and risked their lives to drive cross-country, illegally hop trains, and save for months to secure a train ticket headed to Los Angeles, New York, Chicago, Milwaukee, Detroit, Philadelphia, etc.
I couldn’t fathom growing up in the South during this time, being treated inhumanely and the hopelessness of ever rising above it.Wilkerson tells the stories of three migrants, Ida Mae Gladney, who left Mississippi for Chicago, George Starling who left Florida for New York, and finally Robert Pershing Foster who left Louisiana for Los Angeles.
This is going to sound a little weird, but throughout my reading of The Warmth of Other Suns, which is primarily about the migration of black Americans from the Jim Crow South to western and northern U.S. cities during a large portion of the 20th century, I kept thinking about my upper-middle-class white high school biology teacher, Mrs. Ferry.
I listened to everything she said, but being a 15 year-old at the time, I wasn’t able to completely assimilate those horrors or understand what kinds of long-term effects Jim Crow would have on the black people who lived under its harsh rule.
I wish I had it in my power to make this book required reading for everyone, at least all students. When we cringe at the horrors waged against others in the world today, we need to remember our own not so distant history and take the lead in driving change.
First and foremost, by narrating the lives of three very different participants in the Great Migration, Wilkerson fleshes out an important historical story that most of us know only in general outline, if that.
Wilkerson's research is thorough and deep, and her (somewhat controversial) comparisons of African American migrants to immigrant populations strike me as particularly insightful.
As an editor, I may be unusually attuned to and distracted by this flaw--but I know I'm not the only one.
Given the monumental effort involved in researching and writing (and marketing) this book, I wish someone had given the final manuscript the detailed editorial attention it deserved.
Isabel Wilkerson’s The Warmth Of Other Suns is one of those rare books that cracks open the world and makes you see everything you thought you knew in a different light.The Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist chronicles the massive migration of blacks from the Jim Crow South, where racism was still entrenched, to the North and West.
The story of how one black family is shown it’s not wanted in the largely white Chicago neighbourhood of Cicero will make you weep for humanity.Still, there is the possibility of freedom and opportunity in the north.
And I think I have to break my self-imposed one paragraph rule for this review because there are so many dimensions to the Warmth of Other Suns.Wilkerson writes a comprehensive multidimensional book about the great migration -- the move by millions of African Americans from the southern U.S. to the north from the 1920s to the 1970s.
I'm glad Wilkerson traced the life story of one woman as well as the two men, because I do wonder how much in those often tight Black families it was the men of the day that were itching to head north, or if it was more the womanfolk who were agitating.
Every day, the cop would wait for this Black interloper to walk through "his" neighborhood, and the harrassment escalated to beatings with the nightstick if nobody was around (or even if other Whites laughed.) Eventually, Grandpa made it to the top of the buildling next to where the cop would often lurk down below on a corner, and dropped a concrete block down on him.
George Starling moving up the eastern seaboard from Florida to Harlem in New York City; Ida May Gladney moved from Mississippi to Chicago, part of the midwest migration; and Robert Foster moved from Louisiana to California, an experience about which I knew the least.
One can certainly make the case that, since Wilkerson conducted interviews for the bulk of her narrative, this is in a long line of family histories passed down orally from generation to generation.
The book was written to document the Great Migration, when approximately six million African Americans fled the South to live in other parts of the country.
I did not understand the enormity of this movement, until I read this statistic: Before the Great Migration only 10% of African Americans lived outside of the South.
As the author so eloquently stated, “ It was the first big step the nations servant class ever took without asking.” Thoroughly researched and impeccably pulled together, The Warmth of Other Suns contains more African American history than I learned in all of my K-12 years combined.
My own maternal grandparents were first generation Polish immigrants in Chicago and lived on the South side of Chicago with my mother and her sisters in an apartment complex occupied by blacks and various eastern European immigrants.
That same year, a college-educated World War II veteran named Harvey Clark, who happened to be black, tried to move his family from a Chicago tenement to a more spacious apartment in Cicero.
It has always been fascinating to me how immigrants turn on the immigrants that follow them.http://www.aaregistry.org/historic_ev...My grandparents, aunts and my mother moved into their home in Cicero one month after that event, only blocks away.
This work of non-fiction highlights the stories of three unrelated individuals, Ida Mae Gladney, Robert Foster, and George Starling in their journeys from Mississippi to Chicago, Louisiana to Los Angeles, and Florida to New York City, respectively.
The ultimate question Ms. Wilkerson asks is "Were the people who left the South - and their families - better off for having done so?
Was the loss of what they left behind worth what confronted them in the anonymous cities they fled to?" After educating myself through Ms. Wilkerson's efforts, I believe the answer to both questions is "yes".
Excellent history of the movement of American blacks out of the southern states and into the north and west of the U.S. to escape the impact of the continuing Jim Crow laws on every facet of their lives.
Using these three individuals we learn some of the reasons black citizens without rights decided to make this major move, leaving all they knew behind, including their extended families.
Much that was presented here was new to me---I didn't know the full extent of the Jim Crow laws on the daily life of all black people in the south.
This is one of the best books I have ever read. If I were the Queen of American education, I would turn every student's 10th grade history class into an examination of the time period from the end of the Civil War to today, seen through the lens of racial discrimination and oppression. And this extraordinary book would be the backbone of that year's study.Every single person who cares about America needs to read this book ASAP, then talk about it to everyone they know.
Although the book focuses on three individuals, as stated above, there are so many other stories, details and examples of the injustices experienced by the blacks in the US beginning at the turn of the 19th century that I became distracted and could not focus on the three individuals.I know this sounds bizarre, but the book was too comprehensive.
Someone is sure to protest and say that all these facts, all these injustices must be stated so the reader understands how it really was for Blacks living under the Jim Crow laws.
It really is quite a book.)In narrative nonfiction like this, there are three potential scales at which to cover a topic: the author’s personal experiences, stories of extra-authorial individuals, and big-picture facts-and-stats, history and context stuff.
For before-and-after views of other migrants’ experiences, Richard Wright’s Black Boy and The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks come to mind.____________* Like I got way too indignant when the authors of Half the Sky: Turning Oppression into Opportunity for Women Worldwide justify their heavily anecdotal approach by citing a few studies in which people are only moved by personal stories, not data.
And he told me a lot of things about his life - about growing up in Louisiana, post-Jim Crow, but still in an era when only 2 black kids could be on the Little League team, and his getting on meant someone else being moved off.
Sure I did, to a certain extent, but I knew about the heroes and heroines of the Civil Rights movement, and the more sensational moments of violence, and less about the wearing grinding horrific legal and factual subjection of Black people in every aspect of daily life.
This book is a powerful, sensitive, exhaustively researched and compellingly composed and important work of “narrative nonfiction” written by journalist-turned-griot, Isabel Wilkerson.It has been easy to encapsulate, segregate, and over-simplify the black American experience in a way that says blacks were slaves freed by Abraham Lincoln in 1863 and afterward, made little appearances and contributions to American culture here and there until the great match known as the Civil Rights Movement was struck to flint in the middle of the 20th century, and now look!
This American history of The Great Migration (1915-1970) connects the dots and fills in the blanks in a way that hasn’t been done before.
So, like, a really long book about people moving house?
And, of course, their stories are all a lot more complicated than just picking up and moving from one part of the country to another.Before reading The Warmth of Other Suns, I had heard the term “Jim Crow” but had no real idea of the horrifying reality behind it.
I could have listened to her interpretation of Ida Mae's silky Mississippi drawl all day long.Ultimately, I'm so glad I invested the time and mental energy The Warmth of Other Suns required of me, and if you choose to do the same, I can assure you, you won't regret it.More book recommendations by me at www.readingwithhippos.com
I admit --I was a little worried that this book would be too long ---I would 'drift-off' pretty soon (I was thinking---"I'll skip some parts") >>> but I couldn't do it....
I LOVED the way Isabel Wilkerson wrote this book (for people like me) ---who were asleep --missing holes in their education ---She was able to keep me interested yet make a profound difference.
My guess is ---many people (people I know anyway) will run away from reading this book....(fear it).
I hope people read this book.READ it as if ---(you've all the time in the world).
What's strange is that until Wilkerson put together this book; there was very little recognition or acknowledgement of the migration during the time.
The is the story of Ida Mae Gladney, the sharecroppers wife from Alabama migrating in the late 1930s; George Swanson Starling an educated fruit picker from Florida migrating in the mid-1940s.
In a year when Hidden Figures: The American Dream and the Untold Story of the Black Women Mathematicians Who Helped Win the Space Race is a huge success, we know such women existed; just not from this book.
It would radically change the whole country and every African-American family existing today are either children of these people or at least has them in their family.My paternal-grandmother's parents were a part of the first wave to leave the South (from North Carolina), though they did not go North proper, but settled into the "gateway city" for Black Southerners of the Atlantic-Coast, Washington, D.C., where my grandmother and father were born.
The "proto-Migration" of black folks from the Deep South that started after the American Civil War usually saw Washington, D.C. as the primary destination.The weird thing about academics when it comes to naming something....it's not always accurate.
. .I was taking a part of the Southto transplant in alien soil,to see if it could grow differently,if it could drink of new and cool rains,bend in strange winds,respond to the warmth of other sunsand, perhaps, to bloom” ― Richard WrightIsabel Wilkerson, a Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist, and a daughter of the Great Migration, writes with conviction and passion.
While her protagonists are all worthy individuals with compelling personal histories, revealing their lives is no substitute for a deeper analysis of the social, political and economic forces which contributed to urban decline in the 1960's.
I was disappointed that there were no photographs, an odd omission in this sort of social history.
This book's description of the The Great Migration (1910-1970) of African Americans from the rural Southern United States to the urban Northeast, Midwest, and West is structured as the interweaving of three story lines.
But it's a story that needs to be told, and it deserves to be read.The following graph shows the percent of African Americans living in the south over time.
It built up an anti-black environment in the South that certainly gave African-Americans plenty of reasons to want to leave.
Three neighbors put their homes up for sale before (they assumed) their property values could plunge.When the new folks moved in, they were much like any other middle-class family on the road - a dad, a mom, a girl (Gail, who joined my class in school), and two younger boys.
Mr. Aaron played right field for the Milwaukee Braves baseball team and went on to complete a very famous career in sports, twelve years or so later eclipsing Babe Ruth's home run record after the team (and Mr. Aaron) moved to Atlanta.I don't know whether the people who sold their homes in a great panic when this family moved in ever felt their own foolishness and stupidity as strongly as this little boy felt it at the time.
I hate to use the term "must-read," but it is necessary here.
As a white girl growing up in the 60's-early 70's, in one of the whitest towns in NY state, and now living in Oregon, one of the whitest states in the U.S., I was extremely ignorant of much of the happenings in this book.
No one talked about it.
I'm embarrassed to say I did not, until now.The author, Isabel Wilkerson, uses many primary sources.
She talks to the people who lived the migration.
Put this at the top of your pile and read it.
I'm sorry I didn't read it sooner.
My grandparents migrated to California from Louisiana after WWII, and they - like the migrants described in this book - met their new world with a combination of wariness and determination, surrounding themselves with others they knew growing up, a vegetable garden in the backyard, recipes from down home, and family values that they passed on to their children and grandchildren.
I am also thankful for the greater context and historical perspective in this book that help me to understand their decision, and the decisions of 6 million others like them, in a deeper way.
Another great book club book.
This was such a good book.
Over 1,000 people were interviewed for this book.
But ultimately the stories of 3 individuals are told.
Amazing research.
This book is about the mass migration from the south that changed the face of American.
This is not a light book.
It is heavy in so many ways.
But oh is it good.
Such a gifted and talented writer.
This clearly was a work of love.
Ten years in the making/researching.
I love books that not only educate me but make me think and feel.
I wish this magnificent, monumental book about the "great migration" of blacks from the South to the North, could be read by every American.
I thought I knew about this segment of American history but there is so much that I didn't really grasp until reading this book.
I listened to the 23 hours of audio (read by my favorite narrator Robin Miles) slowly over a few weeks, needing time to absorb it.This unforgettable book has profoundly deepened my understanding of American history.
The list of awards and accolades is so long the book does not need my imprimateur, but I will echo each and every one by saying, "Read this."From 1915 to 1970, thousands of black Americans undertook a pilgrimage of hope and determination that led them from cotton fields, rice and tobacco plantations, from villages and towns in Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, North Carolina, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Tennessee and Virginia to a new world in the north.
