https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35235302-this-is-going-to-hurt
One concerns herbal medicine and the other the very serious topic of spousal abuse and how the hospital dealt with it in pregnant women.1.
Eventually they established that the red dots were artistic decoration by her two year old child when they went to the toilet together.I think Ockham's Razor applies here!5 stars for being a great read and exposing the very emotional side of being a doctor and not just the practice of medicine._____________________________________________More anecdotes  from when I was reading the book.This is so funny.
it's really got to be a good book with such louche writing.
A genuinely funny collection of stories from a former doctor; some so horrifying, surprising, or amusing that I had those hard-to-breathe-while-laughing moments, immediately making Audible clips and sending them to all my friends.
It would have been wrong to focus solely on the laughs, denying the inevitable traumas, near misses, and deaths, some of which may have been prevented by having a properly run, well staffed, less overworked team of doctors.
In mixing comedy and reality, Kay has found an effective way to show us some truths while making us laugh so hard we have to hold back tears.
I think this strikes a particular cord with me at the moment as the author was an obs & gynae doctor, and I’ve recently spent time myself as an inpatient on such a ward.
It’s really the awful and gut wrenching stories interspersed throughout (especially the last chapters) that make you realise how much pressure and guilt our doctors are under.
It’s one of the best memoirs of this kind I’ve read in a long time and I loved following Adam Kay on his journey through life as a junior doctor.
A petition for Jeremy Hunt (and every other politician and individual wanting cuts to the NHS) to read this book immediately. As brilliantly funny as it was emotional, distressing and heart-wrenching. We don't look after our health services enough, and I hope this book helps more people understand why that needs to change.
The writing style is not geared towards making you feel a deep connection with Adam however towards the end my heart really went out to him and is the reason I rounded up to a full 4 stars.The format took a while to get used to as some diary entries were so short they felt like Doctor Doctor jokes, but once I got used to it I could not stop reading.This was really entertaining, in fact at times I had to literally wipe away tears of laughter.
This book was an amazing insight into the life of a former Doctor.
I found some of the diary entries so utterly horrifying and surprising, I was sitting there thinking, what the hell?
It was one particular sad and heartbreaking event that causes this Doctor to decide to leave medicine.
The sad thing about this book for me, is the stone cold reality of if the NHS was adequately staffed, many near misses, wrong diagnosing and even deaths could definitely be avoided.
I've also had contact with some amazing doctors, that have literally saved my life.
‘This is Going to Hurt’ (2017) is essentially Adam Kay’s account of his time as a junior doctor in the UK’s National Health Service.
Kay has given us a very human account of life in the NHS in the role of a junior doctor and brings into sharp focus the absurdly long shifts and the super-human demands that are imposed and expected of doctors and many other health professionals in the NHS.
We should be proud of our NHS and we should be prepared to fight for its future.Long Live The National Health Service.
We also get to see the way that Adam Kay dealt with many of the tests on his own time and relationships.However, at the heart of this story it's all about humour and anecdotes and we get a real look at some of the truly silly and down-right mad things that people do to end up in A & E.
We also get to follow some of the stories which were quite embarrassing/funny or down-right painful (hence the title) and I found there were plenty of LOL moments in the book.There's a bit of a shocking ending, and that topped this off as a 4.5*s read for me.
I said, "It was never something I was supposed to be, so I don't think about it at all."Maybe an equivalent is, "Was it difficult coming out?" Maybe, but it was less tough than staying in.Anyway, I met some other people on that holiday, and it clicked."So you live in Norway," a man said.
You know, we here in Greece are hoping to discover new oil reserves.
(And I also wasn't drunk.)No one SHOULD have to justify themselves to others, but that's not how most people let the world work.
Adam Kay's writing style is funny, but we can see the humor and patience wearing thin when a hemorrhaging patient splashed blood on his scrubs, pants, expensive CK boxers and manhood underneath.
We readers know from the introduction to this powerful book that Adam Kay eventually left the National Health Service for a turn at comedy.
While the National Health Service does not (yet) subject its patients to American-style five- and six-figure bills, we have to wonder about the priorities of any society that rewards gag-writing for telly so much more handsomely than saving the lives of mothers and fetuses.
Kay practiced medicine for six years before leaving to write comedy for TV.
The incident that led to him leaving medicine is particularly wrenching.
Still, if you think of all the lives he saved and new lives he ushered into the world during six years of practice, he can be so proud of his achievements.Favorite entry:“Tuesday, 21 October 2006Moral maze.
In the labour ward dressing rooms after a long shift.
I’m leaving at 10 p.m. rather than 8 p.m. thanks to a major obstetric haemorrhage ending up back in theatre.
However, I am currently dressed in scrubs and splattered head to toe in blood.

I think this book sums up why I never went into Medicine and in order to survive in the medical world, you need to detach yourself from some pretty horrific things.Kay describes mortality in a very glib way which I suppose is accurate coming from a Doctor who deals with death on a regular basis.
Having read the first section of the book, life is deemed as cheap which is something I am not comfortable with (since I have a morbid fear of death) so I didn't appreciate this aspect.Furthermore, there are too many crude references for my liking.
Thanks to two longish train journeys I started and finished this book today. You can believe the blurb, it is hilarious. Properly laugh out loud funny. It's also poignant and a timely reminder of what a resource the NHS is and how it has been eaten away by politicians. You really should read this book, you'll love it. Unless you are squeamish or pregnant. If you are pregnant, wait till your baby is born then read it. If you are squeamish, read it with your eyes closed or a bucket beside you! Just read it.
The first time in many years that I have stayed up late at night, curled up in bed, and read from start to finish an entire book.From 8pm until a couple minutes after 1 o'clock the next morning, I devoured this book.It is beautiful, wonderful, poignant, hilarious, heart-wrenchingly sad, happy and every other emotion humans ever feel.A full review to follow, but the NHS needs to be saved right now.
Interview with author that brought the book to my attention: https://www.youtube.com/watch?time_co...For years I have been watching news comedy shows from the U.K., mostly Mock the Week and Russell Howard’s Good News, and in every series the panel has to dispel the opinions of some member of the conservative government about how the NHS is a cancer and the portrayal of Junior Doctors as money-grabbing and undeserving people who only seek their own wealth.
The patient is dead.But the book is not only the comical experience of an overworked man, but an observation on class and the wealth of the state and their influence on the well-being of the population, a remark on the demands these doctors were expected to fulfill, and how all these lead to the detriment of the doctor’s personal lives.
I think this is the first nonfiction book I've ever given a full five stars to. Usually the highest they get is 4.5 which is usually rounded down to 4 as I save the 5 star ratings for truly incredible books or ones that really had a profound effect on me. This book deserves every single star. Hilarious and heartbreaking all at once, it highlights the importance of the NHS which we should all be fighting to protect and make better. Can not recommend this book highly enough! Full review to come.
I am so supportive of the NHS and it’s workers in this country, this book is proof of the amazing work doctors and nurses do for us every single day that a lot of us take for granted.I’ve said it a million times before, but I find comedy in books really hard to connect with and I rarely laugh out loud at books.
Told in diary form entry this is a really easy book to speed through, even when it comes to some of the harder hitting moments.Call me heartless, but unlike a lot of others who’ve read this book, I didn’t find myself on the edge of, or even in, tears.
I ended up googling junior doctor crises, reading up on how NHS is faring so bad after setting health care standards for rest of the world for so many years.
The book does not seem relevant to current affairs and you might take it as a British style memoir/satire at first but then you realize there are some important points being made here which are very relevant to the current NHS crises esp with the Junior doctors protesting and Jeremy Hunt not paying any heed.
But what I really want is Adam's sense of humor and satirical writing style.
We don’t know what they are going through, but Adam has given an insightful look into his life as a Junior Doctor and just how much it impacted him.I think what I enjoyed the most was the almost conversational aspect of the book.
Others really made me feel for him as his own personal life suffered at the hands of working absolutely crazy hours and nobody could understand why he was missing important events outside of work.I really enjoyed This Is Going To Hurt, even though enjoy seems like the wrong word considering the subject matter, but you know what I mean.
This is the second book I read this year that I wish I had written (and, had I kept a diary, I probably could have - except the horrific penis-related injury I treated was not a de-gloving, but a fracture).I'm a *junior* doctor, and his stories of life, death and everything in between just sound so reassuringly familiar.
Also check.For those who are not medical professionals, I would highly recommend reading it.
And, honestly, we probably need more people to read it if we want to save the NHS.
I totally read this in one sitting. This is a mixture of a testament to how brilliant and immensely readable this book was, mixed with me being smug and braggy.A hilarious, honest, heartbreaking and incredibly quick read. I can understand why this book has done so well. Glorious!
An excellent book which portrays the life of a junior doctor with honesty and humour. There were numerous laugh out loud moments which I suspect may have disturbed the people around me in the airport. Many of these involved "introduced objects" which sadly shows you my level. And there was me thinking that the TV remote control was for switching channels.Well worth a read.
Should be required reading for politicians everywhere, this is a brutally honest and realistic but absolutely hilarious memoir, where you will laugh and cry and wish that this dedicated, genuinely caring guy was still practicing medicine. Incredible.
If you are ever likely to be ill, you should read this.
If you are ever likely to conceive, you should read this.
If you are a woman and likely to give birth, you should read this.
If you are a man and likely to spawn kids, you should read this.
If you think you are ever likely to die, you should read this.
Even if you're bloody rich and cocooned by hugely expensive medical insurance, you should still read this.
(Actually, you should especially read this if you are hugely rich and cocooned by hugely expensive medical insurance.
Or just read page 139).
Somewhere around 2.5... maybe 3Vídeo reseña el 17 de julio a las 10'30 en https://youtu.be/J0S5gM01K2g
Horrifying, hilarious and illuminating in equal measure.
NEPAPRASTAI juokinga knyga su daug medicininių detalių, kurios gali kelti šiurpą, nes:1) sužinai, kaip kartais veikia žmogaus kūnas ir kokiais būdais jis gali neveikti,2) sužinai, kaip gyvena medikai ir tai gali būti tikrai siaubingas, varginantis gyvenimo būdas.Tas 1) man daug siaubo nekėlė, nes mano mama medikė ir nuo pat vaikystės ne tik įpratau kalbų apie hemorojų prie pusryčių stalo (ture story), bet netgi ėmiau labai žavėtis tuo.
Kadangi neketinu turėti biologinių palikuonių, tai visi akušerijos skyriaus (kur jis ir dirbo) sudėtingi atvejai manęs ypatingai neveikė, bet jei kas planuojate, galima pasverti, ar tikrai norite žinoti.
As a medical student, this book was of a special interest to me.
I got an idea of how difficult working as a doctor is going to be, which I already knew, to be honest, and I am actually trying to change careers, but reading about it from someone who went through it first-hand was a different thing altogether.
That being said, This is Going to Hurt was a really funny, entertaining read; I laughed outloud several times, and I was smiling the rest of the time (except when things were tough).
All in all, it was a good book.
Muito bom!Opinião aqui: https://livrosepapel.blogspot.com/201...
