https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5814.Slow_Learner
While not essential to the Pynchon canon, these stories provide insight into how Pynchon started created his stories and his universes. We even get to see a few characters that appear in Gravity's Rainbow and Against the Day later on. I would say this is for the Pynchon-addicts like myself who are waiting impatiently for yet another Pynchon masterpiece.
Video-review: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gURP2...Featured in my Top 20 Books I Read in 2016: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4X6OQ...Worth its price for the introduction alone, the five stories in Slow Learner show a writer trying his hand at different things. Paradoxically enough, the least Pynchonian stories in the collection (1st and 5th) are also the most effective if you ask me, but even in the less elegant middle stories one can find sparks of true genius. Must read.
Introduction, by Thomas Pynchon--The Small Rain--Low-lands--Entropy--Under the Rose--The Secret IntegrationPublisher & Date of Publication
My first reaction, rereading these stories, was oh my God, accompanied by physical symptoms we shouldn't dwell upon.This, from the opening paragraph of Thomas Pynchon's introduction to his earliest published stories, appears at first to be a self-conscious oversell of false modesty.
Granted, all but one of these stories were written in college, but even so, any previously tempting apotheosis of the man will be permanently erased upon reading these.
I'm not going to go into detail about the problems here, mainly because Pynchon does such a damn good job of it in his introduction.
Delinquent JuveniliaIt’s almost inevitable that any author will consider their juvenilia as inferior to their later or more mature works (especially if they made the transition from short stories to fully-fledged and ambitious novels).Thomas Pynchon is no different in his perspective on the five short stories in this collection (which were originally published between 1959 and 1964. Only the last story was published after one of his novels  (“V.”). From “Under the Rose” to "V."It’s generally kno
From “Under the Rose” to "V."It’s generally known that Pynchon was working on all of his first three novels at the same time, but chose to prioritise them differently, both in terms of completion and publication.However, it became apparent from reading the short story “Under the Rose” (1961) (the fourth in this collection) that there is a creative link between at least this story and the third chapter of “V.” Both works are set in colonial Egypt (Alexandria and Cairo).
Πρώτη επαφή με τον Πύντσον. Η αλήθεια ειναι πως περίμενα κάτι άλλο, δε ξερω τι ακριβώς. Όχι ότι δεν ήταν καλό, αλίμονο. Απλά σε κάποια σημεία ένιωσα να χάνομαι σε μια περιγραφή χωρίς ιδιαίτερο νόημα. Ευελπιστώ να ισχύει ο,τι έγραψε ο ίδιος στην εισαγωγή ότι δηλαδη πρόκειται για πρώιμα κείμενα του. Οψόμεθα για το επόμενο!
Worth it for the introduction alone. This was my 4th Pynchon, and probably a good time for it. Would probably be a bit anticlimactic if I had saved this for last. Highlights: "Entropy" and "Under the Rose". Also, a Slothrop relative, wart Doctor makes an appearance. Good enough writing, but experience enhanced if you're all-in with Pynchon, natch.
Any book that starts out in the preface saying that what you are about to read sucks and then makes a series of apologies about how bad it is and how much he learned and how smart he actually is and on and on with the pretentious 'I really am one of the greatest writers in the 20th century, you just won't be able to tell from the shit you are about to read' litany.
I bought an Elvis Costello re-issue album once that did the same thing.
I thought, well, no one ever says anything about this album, I'll give it a shot.
Es lo primero que leo del autor y como el propio Pynchon explica en el prólogo estas no son sus mejoras historias.
Cuando los dos amigos charlan y beben animadamente, la esposa de Dennis, Cindy, llega a casa y cuando su marido le explica que esa mañana ha decidido quedarse en casa, ella se siente decepcionada y se enfada.
Al final Dennis se queda alli porque descubre que la chica tiene todo lo que no tenía Cindy.Bajo la rosa me pareció una infumable historia detectivesca muy liosa y difícil de seguir.Mi relato favorito del libro es La integración secreta, es el más largo y narra los problemas que tiene un grupo de niños enfrentandose al mundo de los adultos a base de gamberradas y por la discriminación racial que sufre uno de los chicos de la pandilla.
The self-deprecating introduction really sets the tone, downplaying expectations and welcoming the reader to just relax a bit and enjoy the flawed stories.
He complains about how amateur these works are and expresses regret over the things he forced into these stories to try to make them more literary.
The Small Rain 1959A low level army tech takes a minor roll in hurricane response.
Curious.Entropy 1960Actually a kind of cool story that involves a wacky party and the odd young couple one floor below, pondering entropy.
But Pynchon adds and works on a complicated racial element.
Nevertheless, author suggests “one of the reasons that fantasy and science fiction appeal so much to younger readers is that, when the space and time have been altered to allow characters to travel easily anywhere through the continuum and thus escape physical dangers and timepiece inevitabilities, mortality is so seldom an issue” (id.), which is definitely philistine.
It’s presented as asymptotic to World War I: “Britain wanted no part of France in the Nile Valley.
The only book I have read all the way through is his last novel "Inherent Vice" which I loved, because it reminded me of my youth in Southern California and all the references both culturally and actual stores in actual locations are just perfect.
The other book I love is "Against the Day" and I stopped reading it half-way through.
I think the short story format is too restrictive for Pynchon - he needs the big scale 70mm book print to get his ideas across.
Worth the read for Pynchon's introduction to the book and the story "Entropy." I think the best introduction to Pynchon is "The Crying of Lot 49" followed by "V." I'd say read this if you are a completionist. As for a starting point, it could work, but I still think his novels outpace any of his stories.I read this because Gravity's Rainbow has claimed me as a victim five times now. I've yet to get past page 250. One day.
Not an ideal Pynchon introduction, so stalled for now. I need a screaming across the sky I guess.
The only author who has fully convinced me of two polar opposite things at once: 1) that I am terribly stupid and 2) that he is terribly stupid.I think the only reason you would want to read this compilation of short stories would be to study Pynchon's work further than you already have.
On the other hand, if through some as yet undeveloped technology I were to run into him today, how comfortable would I feel about lending him money, or for that matter, even stepping down the street to have a beer and talk over old times?"  He criticizes some of his shortcomings as a young writer, such as having a "bad ear", in that he wasn't experience in life enough to properly portray accents.
The more disconcerting thing to read about is the artistic debt that he seems to feel for most beat literature, which I can see to an extent, it's just that I think he is probably the last writer that should give that movement too much credit.This is basically V.-era Pynchon, and nothing too surprising.
Oddly enough, I enjoyed the Secret Integration the most; a story about a precocious twelve year old, who basically reads like a merry prankster with a degree from MIT.
I wouldn't recommend this as an introductory read for those interested in Pynchon.
L'ho letto fino alla fine, sperando sempre in un riscatto, che però...
niente, non c'è stato!Non sono riuscita ad entrare in risonanza con la frequenza di Pynchon.
Non mi ha preso.
Leggevo, ma i personaggi non mi trattenevano.
Mi giravano intorno e non si fermavano.
Sembra che P.
sia un grande della letteratura americana.
Ma io non l'ho capito.E così le stelline si sono spente un po' alla volta...Al racconto 'Entropia', che ho letto per primo, ne avrei forse potute dare tre, per la sua assurda scientificità, attorno a cui ruotano personaggi malati: diversi modi di reagire all'attesa della morte finale dell'Universo.
the portrait of a genuis as a young PYNCHman. amazing stories about life among death, low and high, entropy and two stories, old world vs. new world and about blockbusting and integration. all TRP themes are here but not so complicated as in later works. Still he was a great writer from the beginning and he is one of the greatest now.

The issue is all the more curious when reading "Slow Learner," a collection of five of Pynchon's earliest short stories, four of them written while still in college, and annotated in the present day (1984) by the author in the form of a skeptical, slightly embarrassed 20 page introduction.
I have nothing against tendrils personally, but my overuse of the word is a good example of what can happen when you spend too much time on words alone." The most exciting part of these stories is watching the author, in retrospect, come to terms with the rookie mistakes we all make in our attempts to get our thoughts and ideas and personality as clear on the page as we can.
Reading Pynchon is being on the road and seeing all the other spectacular stuff, - though with someone who seems to share some of the same opinions and neuroses, and apparently contains much of one's own general knowledge plus that of a few friends with different specialties.Low-lands Another fairly conventional story, about an ex-Navy guy and his drinking partners (one with the fabulous name Rocco Squamuglia, Squamuglia later making an appearance in Lot 49 as a fictional Italian city-state) – though it's more anarchic than 'The Small Rain' and in the last few pages spills into a fantasy section reminiscent of a children's book.
I don't know if you have any plans to make this a novel, but I feel like I've seen the name Pig Bodine in one of your earlier pieces?
But that nasty four-letter word in the middle, that's the one you have to look out for" OMG so relevant!!I still feel like you're not quite getting to the "plotness" of a good story y'know?
In the past I feel like you've depended on men who are (literally) too mechanical but even your deployment of the young kid in AA ends up simultaneously absurd and beautiful.
However, I think the greatest satisfaction I got from this story collection was two-fold:1) the introduction, by the man himself!
It hasn't ruined the magic of any of his previous works, though being able to hold tenable the hypothesis that he is just as human as any other meatbag with a keyboard is exciting.
They're good, but I think that's where I want to leave it.
I could call them "nice" or "pleasant." They aren't suffering from a significant shortage of wit or craft, but they fall well short of the standard to which I normally hold Pynchon.
They are, in short, his early works.
Thomas Pynchon's short story "Entropy" is what kick started my interest in modern (well, post-modern) literature and it's a little odd to see it again, not quite as good as I remembered it (though still good) and ripped to shreds by the author in the preface.So what is there to say?
Some of these stories are just good, some are pretty darned good and some are outright wonderful.
It is a collection of short stories that I would recommend for those too tentative to dive right into V.
or are not quite sure who this Pynchon fellow is.
Then read the introduction - all of twenty-four pages, a bit too long - in which the writer himself elaborately puts down the other stories written twenty years previously when in college: ' It is only fair to warn even the most kindly disposed of readers that there are some mighty tiresome passages here, juvenile and delinquent too.' So I picked the one he himself felt least bad about, "Low-lands", and indeed, although another example of this writer's delightfully bizarre imagination (it is about a gypsy tribe living in tunnels beneath a garbage dump), the story drags: two stars.
So I refrained from reading the others.
These stories are proof that Thomas Pynchon was once not the behemoth of a writer he is now. Even though, 'The Secret Integration' was oddly sweet which is a story about a few little kids in post-segregationist America. Also, the introduction was very funny. I didn't care so much for the other stories. They were still very Pynchonesque except not fully developed. After these, Pynchon went on to write 'V.'. Wow!
These stories are sadly not too great. Pynchon gives some elusive personal details and wisdom about writing in the introduction, but even his commentaries don't make many of these stories worth reading. It's kinda fun to watch him shape up from juvenalia to the writing style he has in Lot 49/Gravity's Rainbow. Still, they're not too good
2.5 *, grudgingly
The Secret Integration + Entropy are so good
The short story "Under the Rose" reappears in altered form as Chapter Three of V.. Published the same year, the two versions make for an interesting comparison of how an author can switch points of view and character portrayal with the same material.The short story "The Secret Integration" is the most accessible and un-Pynchonlike. To be honest, it's my favorite of this collection.
