https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23454.Dragons_of_Winter_Night
Then you can probably understand how frustrating this book was to read.This second volume of the Dragonlance Chronicles was in many ways a disaster.
Unfortunately, those parts are all gone in this book, which in turn makes it virtually impossible to overlook the flaws.
Dragonlance is at best mindless entertainment, and when the entertainment is gone, it is, logically, just mindless.Luckily the book did improve in the end.
So this was actually a welcome addition to the plot, even though I rather liked said character.
Please note that my rating disclaimer* still holds for the second volume of the Dragonlance Chronicles.The forces of darkness command armies of draconian and the hosts of dragons, the forces of good are essentially reduced to a band of companions including half-elf Tanis; Flint the dwarf; Sturm, a paladin aspiring to the knighthood in the ancient order of Solamnia; twin brothers Caramon and Raistlin combining the strength of muscle of the former and the power of magic in the frail body of the latter; Tika a feisty ex-tavern girl; an elflord Gilthanas and his sister Laurana (badly infatuated with Tanis); Elistan, a cleric of Paladine, and a cleric of Mishakal Goldmoon with her husband Riverwind, and, last but not least, Tasslehoff Burrfoot of the kenderfolk.
there are far more important books i could and should be reading.
there are works of Great Literature on my shelf, glaring at me balefully while i devour these dragon books like a geeky ten year old boy.
the characters are far better drawn as well, and i am ashamed to say that i actually shed a tear when sturm died.
i also stick by my initial evaluation of really liking the kender, who reminds me of me at my annoying best, and the wizard fizban.
it's like, um, you know, candy is good for your soul!
This time through I also nailed down the main reason I love the Chronicles, and why it is still one of the best fantasy series ever inspired by Dungeons and Dragons -- the way in which it undercuts fantasy's usual racial hierarchies.One of the major problems I have long had with fantasy is the inherent racism that fantasy perpetuates.
Fantasy generally entrenches the concept of "good" and "evil" races (which even Dragonlance can't entirely escape), and this, in turn, leads to a hierarchy of races with the Elves as the "superior race" and some of the monstrous humanoid races as the "inferior races."This scares me.

still wonderful to read. great character development. Laurana is my favorite so far, you can tell how much she's grown since the last book. and Sturm... why?!!!!
Okay.
Yes, I still love these books.
But at the same time I am not blind to their faults.
It's like loving your husband of twenty years even though he now has a beer belly, has lost most of his hair, leaves the toilet seat up and chews with his mouth open.
Every stereotype of fantasy is here.
Every gaming class.
The battles are bloodless.
The deaths heroic.
And only bad girls have sex.
(Maybe even younger the way our culture is going.) But in their own way they are one of the most iconic and important contributions to modern fantasy.
Καλύτερο από το πρώτο. Πιο ώριμοι οι χαρακτήρες. Ο χωρισμός τους σε τρεις ομάδες έδινε μεγαλύτερο ενδιαφέρον στην παρακολούθηση. Είχε σασπένς του τι. Το τέλος ήταν ανατρεπτικό. Η Λοράνα άλλος χαρακτήρας σε σχέση με το πρώτο. Περισσότερη εμβάθυνση στον κόσμο του Κριν γεγονός που σε εντάσσει καλύτερα στο έργο.
"Why was I different? Sturm wondered. But he knew the answer… It was because of the dwarf, the kender, the mage, the half-elf… They had taught him to see the world through other eyes: slanted eyes, smaller eyes, even hourglass eyes. Knights like Derek saw the world in stark black and white. Sturm had seen the world in all its radiant colors, in all its bleak grayness.” This was at times hilarious and heartbreaking. The group is splintered and it’s obvious that they work better when together, bu
Knights like Derek saw the world in stark black and white.
Sturm had seen the world in all its radiant colors, in all its bleak grayness.”
Tanis annoyed me in this book, and so did the Knights of Solamnia.
But I won’t say too much.The only reason I didn’t give this book 5 stars is because there were 2 cases of insta love and I just don’t like that very much in any situation.
However this book was better than the first, because we are already emotionally involved with our characters.
Serinin en iyi kitabı diye bahsedildiğini çok duymuştum.
Bence hakkını veriyor.
Yalnız aklıma yatmayan bazı konular var tabi.(view spoiler)[Raistlin Majere gibi bir büyücü ejderha küresini kontrol etmek için kendini paralarken nasıl Laurana bu ejderha kürelerine hükmedebiliyor böyle kolayca?
(hide spoiler)]Bazı karakterlerin hikayedeki rolü bana abartılı geldi.
İlave olarak Tanis'in de sevgi kelebeği olması dışında pek bir vasfını göremiyorum fakat kendisinin iç dünyasını okumanın biraz insanı bunalttığını söyleyebilirim.
Raistlin gibi bir karakter varken Tanis'le ilgili bu kadar şey okumak beni biraz sıktı açıkcası.
Kitabın Solamniya ve Silvanesti'de geçen bölümleri benim okurken en zevk aldığım kısımlardı.
3. kitabında bu şekilde devam etmesini unuyorum.
Dwarves, elves, wizards, war, the kitchen sink...Great balls of dragon fire, this has it all! The heroes we met and fell in love with continue their adventure. Evil is on the rise and war is on the way. The action accelerates and the tension tightens...so why only three stars? The writing is serviceable. Three books in this popular series were churned out within two years. The publishers were pushing them out the door as fast as they could be written. This second volume is rife with repetitious phrasings, but never you mind! The story is still intriguing!
If there is a William the pig story I will scream!The ending, though needed, was truly heartbreaking.
Long live Sturm Brightblade.The BadTwo forced pure and true love stories.
Riverwind went to the ends of the plains, fighting impossible odds for years to come out on top.
It moved the story along but this is really what kept me from being wholly invested.The UglyGilthanas found out the woman he was intimate with was a Dragon.
In the reveal he was having a literal breakdown, crying and screaming, probably over the idea of Dragon headed babies and what goes where.
RTC.
Laurana needs to leave Tanis in the dust.Last thing I want to moan about - the massive time skips where characters go off and have adventures and come back with wondrous objects are annoying.
I think most of them are filled in with later books but it seems like a bit of a cheap way to keep us reading the Dragonlance series.
If I hadn't already read the first in the Lost Chronicle series I would have been convinced I'd missed a whole book.
I can't imagine how annoyed people who read them in the 20 years before the Lost Chronicle's were published must have felt.
This is the book the made me decide to start writing on my own. I know I was involved when Sturm died. I rememebr crying and not reading for the next two weeks. This will always in my mind be the book that did it to me.
4.0 stars. These books are a ton of fun and I think they are really well done. The heroes are larger than life, the villians are mega evil and Raistlin, who is a little of both, steals the show. Highly entertaining and highly recommended!!
Look, these books aren't really THAT good, but I love them. So I'll give them a bunch of stars and that's it :-p
No spoilers.In this second book of the original trilogy, we find the group on another quest, however this time they are separated into two groups. one still searching for the Dragonlance the other left to fight the evil army trying to seize the land. There is quite a bit that occurs to our characters, and with a sad ending, this go around.
Jodå, den här var också bra.
I started this series because some friends told me that they loved it more than The Lord of the Rings.
They did say that it starts out a little rough, but once you get into it the story really takes off.
Well, after finishing the book I kept wondering when it was going to get better.
After finishing it I decided that I needed to re-examined all the recommendations that these people gave me.
Comparisons to Tolkien aside, this is a badly written book.
From a grammar position all the way to the overall narrative structure and character story arcs, this book (and the trilogy) is simply awful.
Fairly predictable fantasy-adventure novel that I read about 25 years ago. I decided to go back and re-read the entire trilogy to see if there's anything more there. What really works for me in this series is the richness of the characters - almost all of them seem to sit atop a thoroughly developed backstory. Big shout-out to the authors for creating Raistlin: as fascinating a magic user as was ever written.
Anche perchè se non erro attualmente si trova in commercio appunto il volume che raccoglie tutti i tre romanzi che comprendono questa prima parte del ciclo di "Dragonlance".Per chi non lo sapesse (sei appena arrivato da Marte, amico?) "Dragonlance" è un'ampia raccolta di romanzi fantasy, i principali dei quali scritti da Margaret Weis e Tracy Hickman ed editi dalla TSR, a cui è affiancata l'omonima ambientazione del gioco di ruolo Dungeons & Dragons.L'immaginario mondo di Dragonlance ha nome di Krynn e contiene una variegata serie di razze tipicamente ispirata al modello fantastico di molte altre ambientazioni fantasy, tra le quali prima fra tutte quella del Signore degli Anelli di J.R.R.Tolkien, con protagonisti elfi, nani, uomini e draghi.
The companions split up whilelooking for the mysterious dragon orbs and the long lost Dragonlances of children stories.
Strum fights for his right to hold the title of being a knight, and Tanis struggles between his love for two women.As with Dragons of Autumn Twilight, Dragons of Winter Night has a great balance of humor, romance, mystery, action and suspense.
The story progresses emmensly in this novel.The companions learn a lesson in friendship, trust and love amidst the battle between good and evil.
If the companions fail then the world is lost to the Dark Queen and her evil minions.
I have been feeling quite ashamed for not getting around to reading the fantasy classics everyone read as teenagers, so I’m fixing it one book at a time.
For the sake of keeping this spoiler free, I can’t say more but I didn’t expect that at all, even though I read plenty of plot twists.
This book is a page turner and a great read, I’m looking forward to reading the third book and then the Dragonlance Legends series after that.
It's been a long while sine I've read this and I've skipped the first one for a buddy read. Still, I remembered most of the characters, and why wouldn't I? This series was the first fantasy series I read in English, so it has a strong sentimental factor. Raistlin is still - after all these years - one of my favorite characters. The writing isn't pretty. At least not after just finishing Gardens of the Moon by Steven Erikson, but the story still flows very fast. I believe this was played as a D&a
Raistlin is still - after all these years - one of my favorite characters.
If this is sacrificing your love (view spoiler)[Silvara by betraying her race (hide spoiler)], yourself (huge spoiler) (view spoiler)[Sturm for his friends after the Measure failed him (hide spoiler)], friendship (view spoiler)[Laurana staying at the Tower of the High Clerist for Sturm (and Tanis) (hide spoiler)] or just the greater good (view spoiler)[Tas smashing the dragon orb (hide spoiler)] or even (view spoiler)[the entire dream sequence in Silvanost, where most of the dreams are about not being able to help the others (hide spoiler)] the themes is running through the entire book.
Never have I encountered such a pronounced instance of- and this is symptomatic of an 'in-universe'-derived immunity on the part of the authors against technical fault- dialogue and descriptive passage providing a vision of plot events and character natures that is not borne out in the course of the novel as a whole- at all.
None of this is done to evoke irony- and none of it is even written with either taste or technical skill.
The only thing that matters is that the contents of the novel are representative of the atmosphere and details pertaining to a specific facet of the D&D universe.
DragonLance: Chronicles and Legends are two trilogies that hold a really special place in my heart.
So much so that I can't really divvy them up into separate reviews.
I don't even think I could give an objective review of the books.
But if I know this: if I've had to replace a book from over-reading, that's amazing.
I've had to replace these 6 books so many times that I keep spare copies around just in case.
True story.Chronicles Trilogy:Dragons of Autumn Twilight Dragons of Winter Night Dragons of Spring Dawning Legends Trilogy:Time of the Twins War of the Twins Test of the Twins
Yes, this is definitely a middle book.
Yes, it has weird time-jumps and omissions (many of which, I'm sure, have subsequently been filled in with the Lost Chronicles; but I haven't read those yet).
Yes, the writing for the most part remains adequate at best.
And yes, the events at the climax of the book (view spoiler)[with Sturm at the Tower of the High Clerist (hide spoiler)] still hit me surprisingly hard.So yeah, somewhere between .5 and 1 of the stars are for nostalgia (and I still wish GoodReads would give us half-stars), but I'm comfortable with a 4 star rating.
-Continuación de este éxito del marketing cruzado.-Género. Narrativa Fantástica.Lo que nos cuenta. Nuestros queridos aventureros de distintas razas, orígenes y personalidades siguen luchando contra el mal. Los detalles son lo de menos, créanme. Segunda parte de la trilogía Crónicas de la Dragonlance.¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers? Visite:http://librosdeolethros.blogspot.com/...
