https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7800188-virals
It's been a long time since the author was a teenager...
This isn't a wild assumption, given how Tory is just a shallow deviation from the author's other adult main character, Temperance.
She thinks and acts like the main character in the adult series.
The author couldn't figure out a way to jam the plot elements together to make Tory both a niece and give her the surname Brennan so she double Brennan-ed the kid so the biological connection would be there at a glance.
She made Tory Temperance's niece to double market both her book series.
Ten Reasons Why This Book Is Better Than Maximum Ride-Hunger Games-Gone-Everythingelse1.
4. Virals is very informative in the science area without turning into a Bill Nye episode.
6. I loved the face that Reichs didn't entirely focus the book on Tory and her friends when they got their powers.
That would have totally turned into a Maximum Ride copycat.
But this book isn't like Maximum Ride in the fact that all these people are easily relateable.
But you CAN compare yourself with someone like roly-poly Hi, or nerdy Shelton, or even moody Ben. Plus, Reichs added in teen characters who were actually pretty intelligent.
Tory Brennan is 14 years old, living on a very small island near Charleston with her newly discovered father, a marine biologist.
At the same time, they discover some old bones, so the four of them begin an adventure made all the more interesting by their new abilities.
I’m (almost) certain that the DNA cannot be altered the way it’s described in Virals, but THAT story is definitely more believable than angels, vampires, weres, sidhe-seers and whatnot.
I liked that there was no love story in Virals.
Tory Brennan was a bit too smart for her age.
. .PUBLISHER: Kathy we just love your books!
The refreshing way you intersperse real-life issues pertaining to forensic anthropology into compelling stories!KR: Thanks, I do my best.PUBLISHER: We think it's really important to reach out to younger readers and would really like you to consider writing something for them.KR: Such as .
. .PUBLISHER: Well, the same amazing mysteries you write, but with concepts that teens find compelling.
Or werewolves!KR: So I should write something that contains both real-life forensic issues and mythological creatures?PUBLISHER: Exactly!
Do you think we should be reaching out to them more?
Continuity is sloppy, subplots are never resolved, and there is even the basic error of absolute terror of using "said".There is exactly one positive female character in this: the heroine.
Vapid and/or evil.There are no characters who are not stereotypes, which is where my unease with the way race is handled arises.
The only excuse is that the author doesn't seem to think in terms other than stereotypes even when the (default) white characters are involved - rich kids are spoiled and shallow, Southern belles are sickly sweet, blonde cheerleaders are evil dumb cows, librarians are weedy and live alone with their cats...The plot is stupid.
Varied and vivid verb choices, great word-painting, and a unique narrative voice appropriate for the fourteen-year-old narrator.
I actually enjoyed all the groundwork because the narrative voice always kept it fun and light.
Even without constant action, all the story-building seemed completely necessary and never felt like too much to me.Another thing I loved about this book is that the young adult characters were intelligent and (mostly) rational.
The one exception happened toward the end, when they mishandled evidence in a way that was uncharacteristic given their history of logical choices up to that point.I was hoping to give this book five stars.
Really enjoyed this! I can't wait to read the rest in this series!
This is clearly Kathy Reichs attempt to enter the teenager/ young adult market with a combination of mystery thriller /DNA science/ high school cotillion/ with supernatural powers thrown in for good measure...Well I suppose it was an original combination.
Anyway this starts of with 4 really super smart teenagers living on a remote island off Charlston whilst their families work on a nearby research island.
what happened to teenagers just wanting to go out and get drunk?Anyway all of this was annoying enough but on top of that we have secret experimental dog who contaminates them all with wolf DNA and they end up with super powers.
Right away, I noticed choppy writing, info-dumping, numerous interruptions in dialogue, and teen characters who do not act anything like teens.
Granted, the code and the hiding place were pretty easy to guess (convenient), but they found both of them THAT EASILY?The burial site of the body they were searching for, after 40+ years of being buried on a remote island and eluding police and grieving family members, is still apparently visible from a cursory search on Google maps.
No wonder it needed 448 pages.If I had to say something I liked, I guess it would be the...um...I don't know...maybe the Charleston and island setting.
There are moments where I rolled my eyes at the simplicity of certain aspects of the story, such as breaking into a highly secure laboratory to steal evidence - I'm not really sure a fourteen year old would have the knowledge or skill to achieve such a goal, but I enjoyed the fun ride all the same.The other aspect that I didn't particularly like was near the end when instead of calling her friends by their names, as she had done for the entire novel prior to this point, Tory began to call them VIRALS.
It literally screamed at me ‚‚Borrow me!‘‘I brought it home because it would look bad if I hadn't borrow something.PS.: New sexy librarian is in the library, so let him have educated customers!Dad read Reichs novels with great gusto, so I plunged headfirst into one of them and...
well, Ben. They're not afraid, with their passion for science, of, for example, break into a secret laboratory, break into the library or liberate wolf.
That's not the genes from Temperence, Reichs!If Ben wasn't in the book, he would simply not there.
Tory and her crew of friends are all smart in their own areas, and I loved following the adventures of this nerd herd!
Tory is obsessed with a pack of wolf-dogs on a remote island, but the pup has been missing.
The mystery of the dog-tag becomes quite an adventure, and saving that puppy will lead them on a path they never could have imagined.I was so engrossed in this book.
Tory is super smart and so snarky and wonderful, I would have loved to have a best friend like her when I was in high school (even though I would have felt dumb hanging around her).
While it's very different from her other work, Virals is very similar in both the scientific atmosphere and deep character development.Tory Brennan is Temperance's grand-niece.
For those familiar with the books, Tory is the granddaughter of Harry, Tempe's sister.
I always got the feeling Harry and Tempe were in their forties from the books.Virals sticks close to Reich's style.
I find this take with the genre leaning more science fiction than paranormal extremely well done.In Virals the mystery of what the kids are becoming is only part of the whole.
They had set a high bench mark with complex just-believable if you squint plots, strong characters and quality writing, supported by Reichs' knowledge of forensic Anthropology.I'd liked the series so I thought, hey, why not give virals a go?I have more heckles than I could possibly cram into a review, so here are my main points,A few pages in I was already sceptical.
Her knowledge seemed to flit spontaneously from ridiculously technical, using complex jargon much like the Temperance Brennan books, to simple, below average teenage girl.A throwaway line of perceptiveness "But I wasn't as perceptive then.
Since the start of grade 11, I haven't been able to read any books of my choice.
This book just begged to be read when I got it from the library.
The plot sounded intense and it was by a well-known author.I loved all of the characters within the book.
None of the crap werewolf lovey-dovey story emerged within the story and I am truly grateful for it.This book was heart pounding, action packed and provided me a fix for my love of the Maximum Ride series.
Sci-fi and mystery lovers will no doubt pounce on this book.
I want to like this author.
And this piece of fiction is young adult.
I couldn't get past Reich's attempt to legitimize the protagonist by linking her to Temperance Brennan as a relative.
Like that somehow will make the story-line stronger?
Then to top it off, one of the main characters is named, Hi. Really?
That was the best you could come up with?Supposedly Reich's writing gets better after her first book.
But of the two I've attempted, when there are SO many good books out there to devour, why in the name of all that is holy, would I give Reich my money?
I was never a huge fan, but I enjoyed pretty much every episode I've seen.But I've never read the books and I was not really tempted.And then I found this one, and I said "huh, yeah why not ?".
Okay, it was not a very exciting way to begin with but i'm glad I took the book.Because...I loved it, I loved it, I loved it, I loved it, I loved it !It wasn't believable.
Yup, that's a new thing !Whatever, I loved her.The book really focused on sciences and the mystery.
So, I kind of felt like Tory was a little bossy.
I mean, if I had friends like Hiram, Shelton and and Ben, I'd be kissing their feet 24/7.
Super shoutout to them.Also, she was kind of, well, mean to Jason.
I eventually gave up and started thinking of them as sixteen or seventeen, because fourteen didn't make sense.
Sorry, but people do not talk like that when they're fourteen.
They definitely do not become criminal masterminds, plot with killers, and are willing to murder someone with a Sig at fourteen.
Fourteen, no.Will definitely read the next books!
Awesome plot, super sc-fi.
Tori is a science nerd and she mentions her aunt Temperance Brennan a couple of times.
I need to read Tempy's series ASAP because I love her and this was super good so I know that series will be awesome as well.
I loved that this revolved around viruses and genetic engineering since that is essentially what I'm studying at grad school.
I wish that Tory hadn't neglected her school work so much, but given her predicament I think she deserves a pass.
I really love the group of friends Tory has.
They're all super supportive of each other and they mesh well.
http://www.gurl.com/wp-content/upload...YES!!!
Sci-fi done perfectly :) JUST FANTASTIC!!!At school, our teachers put us into book clubs and this was one of the set books - sadly, our group didn't get to read it (then again, maybe that's a good thing - there's NO WAY we'd be able to drag this book out over 10 weeks!), but a friend of mine did and LOVED it, so I grabbed it at the library...
The Virals jokes and conversations are perfectly done and hilarious!
So much fun to read with the entertaining comments from the best pack ever XD http://www.geekosystem.com/wp-content...[I've GOT to stop doing so many GIFS]3.
I usually don't go for the mystery novels solved by teens as they are really cheesey. Not that this book wasn't cheesey, I actually got so into this that I read it in just two hours!! Yay! I loved it, especially the ending.
RTC
Peasants.* Kit's privileged, snobby girlfriend, Whitney* Mean, townie girls* Unsecured Loggerhead Island with secure research facility, LIRI (Loggerhead Island Research Institute)* Secret lab and secret project* Obsessed with dog tags* Taking infected wolfdog out of lab with danger of contamination* Why pay a librarian to pay attention to a name for decades?* Katherine Keaton disappeared in 1969* Craving raw meat or innocent gerbil* Bullied into debutante ball* Hi is right, why do all of Tory's ideas have to involve felonies?!* Mutated parvo virus* How would a mutated virus modify their DNA?
I read every review I could find before buying it.
I fell in love the minute I hit the button on my kindle and was introduced to the wonderful life of Tory Breenan.
Ben and Tory are ment to be togather.
Ben is obviously obessed with Tory she doesn't see it yet.
Tory being Max and Ben being Fang.
But I like Kathy's writing style much better then Patterson's.
Maybe we don't want them to always win it was annoying.
I think she needs to write a bit more about Ben though.
I just wanted to say I LOVED IT.
The new Young Adult genre attempt by the aforementioned Reichs (with some success and some downfall).Going into the novel, I was not expecting anything Reichs-ian (read: detailed forensic anthropology leading to the solution of one or many murders) and did expect to get a little Theodore Boone (Grisham's YA character) meets Maximum Ride.
A medical mystery, a set of bones, how the stories do eventually merge together, and the teeny bopper feelings that surrounds it all.One note that Reichs may find interesting (and libraries, when cataloguing the book genre) is that while the genre is YOUNG ADULT, usually these books are geared to teenagers, to bait them into reading something more interesting than UNDERGROUND TO CANADA, TO KILL A MOCKINGBIRD, or HAMLET (pardons to Barbata Smucker, Harper Lee, and The Bard).
The story follows 14 year old Tory Brennan and her friends as they are exposed to a virus and are put in great danger when they uncover a murder case.
First of all, I thought it was noticeable how Tory didn't really act like a teenager.
I really had to suspend my belief when Tory and her friends were able to repeatedly get past high security, understand how to pick locks and identify bones with no prior experience, to name a few things.
Nevertheless, the book was enjoyable once I got past that (and the stereotypical high school drama.
As a late-to-the-party fan of the TV series, "Bones," I thought I'd give Kathy Reichs's books a try.
As regards YA lit, I have some pet peeves, and Reichs seems to have touched every nerve.
I hate it when authors think kids are stupid or that they don't deserve thoughtfully-drawn plots and carefully-crafted prose.
Reichs, who probably has more money than God, with several bestsellers and a hit TV series under her belt, just had to try to cash in on the lucrative and already-too-glutted-with-mediocrity teen market.
Tory Brennan will not go down in the annals of YA lit as a badass female role model for young women.
I've NEVER read a book about mangled DNA and all that sciencey stuff so at first I wasn't sure if I should read it or not, but because of my friend's reviews I gave it a go.
And coop was adorable so you know ;) I listened to a great song while reading the last few pages which was called 'Introduced Species' By Hands like Houses and it made the story so much cooler.
Now what are you doing reading my review?
I gave it five stars, so go read it yourself.
I like that Tory is the youngest, and female, and she's the pack leader, alpha almost.
I think that the side characters are great too but while they do have two poc characters I wouldn't say the entire novel is A+ on the variety.Despite this, I loove how the guys and Tory interact.
I love how Tory and Ben interact!
I just, I love the dialogue.The plot is quite smooth and while some things can be a bit unbelievable, it is a book about teenagers getting super powers from a wolf virus so...
This entire series is in my definite reread pile.
This was a very, very good read!
The mc, Tory, has a lot of different things going on: a murder to solve, new abilities to learn how to deal with(like a super-duper new sense of smell, hearing, and sight), and having to wear pink to her first debutante experience.
For those who like romance, there's a bit of crushing going on(which doesn't go where you would expect), but I think the next book will lead into something more between Tory and Ben, one of the other Virals.
The banter between the Virals is fun, and Hi was one of my favorites.
