https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34528.Johnny_and_the_Dead
I was packing up books to move and came across this one that I didn't know I had in my Pratchett collection and I don't have the others in the series.
It is very dated, with lots of early 90s pop culture references and jokes about being 'politically correct' and the gulf war.
A white character at one point suggests he's not black enough and jokes about reporting him to the rastafarians.
The plot moves along nicely until it stagnates 3/4 of the way in, and while Terry Pratchett is rarely predictable, an overall point to the plot would have been nice besides a more overall philosophical statement.
Of all the Terry Pratchett books I've read (and I've read them all, as far as I know) I was very surprised to see how much I enjoyed the books he'd written for children.This is no book for very young readers, but my ten year old son read it and greatly enjoyed it.
Terry's usual razor sharp satirical wit is toned down just enough to not baffle a young reader, but enough to keep an adult flipping the pages happily.I loved the way he portrayed young Johnny's ability to comprehend the older generation, and marveled at how eerily similar his thinking is compared to how I remember childhood.
Marvellous!
I took a while with this book as everything came at once but this was superb.
The snappy one liners are there and I loved the idea of Ghosts dancing to thriller because they just like it.
The characters are well thought out and funny too.
I actually felt upset when Tommy Atkins met up with the rest of the volunteers and returned to France -a spine tingling moment!I would have liked Eric Grimm to be a darker character as I really wanted to know why he was doomed but I found the explanation a bit "meh" compared to what I had imagined.
oh how very sweet and funny! i loved loved loved it. very short but full of wit and magic. had me laughing out loud on quite a few occasions and i loved the ideas, execution and the overall philosophy of it. go johnny!i have to say a lot better and in a way more plausible (however one can interpret "plausible" in this case) than Only You Can Save Mankind. maybe because today's computer games aren't quite the same any more. but ghosts and graveyards will always be there.
Oh, I loved it so much. The dead are great, they're so much fun, totally hilarious, and in the end, just absolutely right about life and death. I love how things turned out for both sides, it was really funny all the ought the start, and towards the end I just melted at how things turned out with the death, and Mr. Grimm, and the Pals. It was perfect.
just marvelous; not at all creepy despite the coverLibrary copy2009 December 31
While much of the book is played for laughs, there are some serious moments that help it to rise above the mundane, and I was moved by Johnny's realization that the past is special not because of the famous, but because of all the little things, and people, that made the future what it is.The non-ghosts themselves are pretty funny in their efforts to make an impact on the mortal world, from calling in to late-night radio shows to driving off in the ghost of an old car.
This is a book that has stood, not only the test of time, but also of me growing up, not all childhood favorites do.
This is a book that I am happy to return to, time and time again.
I have at least two copies of this book, but this time, I listened to the audiobook and I was not disappointed.
The narrator put some serious effort into this one, and it made it fun to listen to.
I recommend this book to absolutely anyone, of any age, so long as they have a sense of humour!
3 stars flat.Another enjoyable children's book by Pratchett. What I like about these books is, although it's a children's book, he doesn't speak down to the intended reader. Life after death is touched upon, for both the living and the dead. Subjects toyched upon most authors wouldn't include in children's literature. Quite thought provoking.I won't have the nostalgia feels for this series, but this one spoke to me a bit more than the first.
A step down from the first book in the series, due to a less interesting and original premise, but still harmless fun, with touches of the Pratchett charm. Also a very quick easy read, useful for keeping me on track for my yearly challenge since I haven't been as diligent on my reading as I should be in the last couple months. As with the previous book, the characters are just not quite as deep and rich as in the Discworld novels.
This story is simply amazing. I feel like these books get overlooked a lot, but they are some of my favorites among Pratchett's work, and to me they showcase some of his finest qualities. Which means I cry every time I read them, of course.
just finished this very well written, looking for the next book to read. I enjoyed the story and had a hard time putting it down for the night.
Review by Nerfreader for the audio version.This second book in the Johnny Maxwell series hits the Halloween sweet spot.
Terry Pratchett is a comedy master, and Johnny and the Dead has some really funny parts.
Luckily, Johnny and the Dead can stand on its own.Johnny and his friends are the best part of these books.
I was disappointed the female friend from the first book isn't around, but Wobbler, Yo-less and BigMac hold their own.
Published in 1993, a few of the references have become dated, but in all the book holds up surprisingly well.Reading: Richard Mitchley is an amazing reader.
Oproti prvnímu dílu - Jen ty můžeš zachránit lidstvo - je to tedy překvapivý skok dolů. Žádný odkaz na předchozí dění, zmizení hlavní hrdinky a téma úplně jiné. A to i když zajímavé, prostě není tak originální, jako to předchozí. Každopádně pobavilo, prostě stále Pratchett, jehož poznámky k místní politice nebo zprávám prostě zase přesně zasahují střed terče :)
Death makes an appearance, but in many ways this is look at community and togetherness.Old Review - In Johnny and the Dead, Terry Pratchett takes a serious topic and makes it funny while keeping it serious. Pratchett teaches the reader about life and death, and about how what might be an insignificant action can change things. He does without preaching.
The second story in the Johnny Maxwell series. This was a well written, lighthearted story, which flowed nicely.Johnny Maxwell found out that he could see the dead, and ended up trying to save their cemetery which lead him on an entertaining mission. Even my favorite character from the Discworld series makes an appearance......DEATH.I would highly recommend this story.
I probably should remove a star for the ending which was, well, rather dead. Nevertheless, I am always charmed by Terry Pratchett. Gaiman's The Graveyard Book was better for story, but this had a little more thinking, more reality leaking out, between the lines.
Sevimli bir kitap ama keşke biraz daha detaylı karakter anlatımları olsa. Kitaplar çok çabuk başlayıp bitiyor.
Pratchett's fairy dust.
Why, oh why, did it take me so long to read a Terry Pratchett novel?Neil Gaiman recommends him.
The book has bits that remind me of different authors I dearly love.
His dark ingenuity to deal with children reminds me of Neil Gaiman.
The stories are completely different, but both put cemeteries and death under the sweetest light there is.
I've already written about it in my review of Gaiman's book a couple of months ago, but I really love it when books and films portray graveyards this way.
Bronze lettering over the door said:ALDERMAN THOMAS BOWLER1822-1906Pro Bono PublicoThere was a stone carving of - presumably - the Alderman himself, looking seriously into the distance as if he, too, was wondering what Pro Bono Publico meant....
Alderman Thomas Bowler blinked in the sunlight, and then glared at Johnny.'Yes?' he said....Johnny hesitated.
Perhaps that all happened and then, just when I was dying, some kind of angel turned up and said would you like a wish?
And I said, yes, I'd like to know what would have happened if I hadn't run away, and the angel said, OK, you can go back.

Quite different from Terry Pratchett's discworld series, this book aimed for younger readers was interesting, lighthearted, and was a good read.
Set around Halloween this book was perfect to read at this point in time.
I enjoyed the aspect as being able to see dead people, and I thought that the story was well constructed for such a short read.
It just jumps into the story without really explaining the characters too much, which was fine, I was a bit lost but not too much.
As in the first book in a series morale is on the surface - and here it's death.
I can't say that it has any answers, but it definitely makes you reflect, remember and think.
About being old, about those who are gone, about war, about eternity.
I liked the idea that cemeteries are not for dead, they are for the living - so we could remember.
And that we have to remember what a great time we live in.Bonus: we get a cameo of Death from the Discworld - I guess because he is the same for all worlds.
As a teenager in the 90's, there are so many references in this story that are of the time...and yet are still in some ways applicable to now. I read this on the approach to Remembrance Day, so the Blackbury Pals were a particularly poignant moment.Hadn't realised that Terry was so young when he wrote it originally. Will be looking up the other Johnny Maxwell stories too, I enjoyed this so much.
I am always very impressed with Pratchett's ability to write a story that addresses serious themes in such an entertaining way. I agree with Melissa, who said, "I was moved by Johnny's realization that the past is special not because of the famous, but because of all the little things, and people, that made the future what it is."
Whenever you think you've got a Pratchett story pegged, he'll surprise you. This story, along with his other non-discworld trilogy, The Bromelaid Trilogy: Diggers, Truckers, Wings are reminiscent of each other in that characters find out the world is much larger than they ever thought possible.I enjoyed this installment a little less than the first, only in the fact that the story was much different in its telling. There were far fewer characters in the first, which to me makes a story more intimate without confusing the reader with seldom present characters.
Now that Sir Terry is no longer with us, I miss anticipating new Disc adventures, new books full of Pratchett humor so I am trying to read any Pratchett books I have missed before I start re-reading. I enjoyed this one, I'm not sure what I was expecting, but it was totally different & I liked it. Looking forward to reading the other two Johnny books.
Same great writing, but the story never really managed to grab my attention. The ghosts were cool and there were some great insights about life, death, and community. I also still really like these characters. I just kinda drifted off at times.
A really fun book with a storyline that will never go out of fashion! I would reckon this for YA or older children as a good introduction to the amazing works of Sir Terry Pratchett
