https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1080876.The_Gods_of_the_Greeks
The Gods of the Greeks by Karl Kerényitranslation: from German by Norman Cameronpublished: 1951format: 286 page paperback (1994 reprint of 1979 edition)acquired: Marchread: Nov 5-12rating: 4wikipedia tells me Kerényi was a classical philologist and that he was a Hungarian who spent a year in Switzerland and then never left.
And presented in this form, in the way Kerényi does, it is a bit overwhelming, a constant barrage of uncondensable information.
"The archaic forms of so many tales have been lost that the whole body of what has reached us and can be presented has become exceedingly compact.
In general, I like this classical work, the style Kerényi uses, telling the tales from a storyteller's perspective, mostly, is very engaging and easy to read.
One is the very common way in which Kerényi conflates Deities and figures when they display similar functions or are thematically connected in some myths, i.e. Conflating Demeter with Rhea, Gaia, and Persephone.
For a Hellenic polytheist, these things can be a bit egregious.
While still a valuable work I recommend any Hellenic polytheist to read, at least once, it does show it's age in some places, as well as scholarly biases.
I shall try to give an accurate summary.Orkeanos was a river god who with his wife gave birth to the Titans and creation.
She ended up cavorting with Aries, the God of War. Later on she would wed Pygmaliona dwarf king who fell in love with her statue.She would also couple with Hermes and bear children the most noteable is Hermaphrodite.Aries was Zeus's least favorite.
Hermes was born from Zeus and an nymph named Maia.He would start out his life by tricking a tortoise and killing it and stealing it's shell to make a musical instrument.
Originally published in 1951, this collection of Greek mythology contained a diverse grouping of stories.
The reading can be a bit choppy at times as the author will bring up a god, only to state that his/her story will be continued later.
Choppy reading aside, I found this book to be a good source of the various versions of Greek mythology, and greatly enjoyed the read.
I would recommend this book for anyone interested in reading about the lesser known versions of these well known myths.
A very thorough list of Greek gods with all referenced perspectives in the myths, but only as relating to the gods. The specific stories of the heroes and monsters are not detailed unless they coincide with the stories of the gods. So in that respect it was disappointing, but otherwise it was really great. Unfortunately, it didn't have the best organization, causing you to have to skip around the book to find information you may be interested in. Not as good for quick reference, but reading through it was fun.
A deep, yet not unreadable book. Kerenyi loves his subject and it's reflected in his writing style. It's definitely scholarly, and a wealth of various stories of the Greek gods. My advice to anyone who wishes to read it would be that they should have a basic familiarity with the mythos and pantheon, along with the alternate spelling of names before they read it, as that can cause some confusion for the novice. Other than that - a fantastic read!
This book (and its companion about heroes) is an interesting compromise between the simpler retellings, like D'Aulaire's and denser and more complicated renderings like Graves or Calasso. It is scholarly and comprehensive, but also straightforward and readable. The use of non-standard (non-latinate) transliterations of names from the Greek(Oidipous for the more familiar Oedipus, for instance) can be unnecessarily confusing.
Absolutely five stars, but it did take forever to read. I always had to stop and look up how to pronounce so many words and names. Hindsight tells me that I should have made my own family tree for the titans, gods, and others, all starting at page one.
I enjoyed this book immensly; I read it twice so I could easily pronounce and better remember the names of the titans, gods, heroesm, and places. This book is not for a novice to mythology but it is very good. Start with Bulfinch!
I only got about halfway through this book before I gave it up. When reading greek mythology, I prefer to read it in story form, which is just so much more interesting and enjoyable. Greek mythology that reads like and encyclopedia is sooo boring.
A great reference to the more traditional stories. Like Edith Hamilton in her Mythology book, Karl preserves the origins and culture of the greek context of these stories and his style is easily readable.
I didn't like the book. I didn't know it was just about the story of the Gods, I thought is was some good story with a main character and that kind of stuff that we usually read.
Really good for compilation of the majority of Greek Deities, and their myths etc.
One of the best books for research on Greek mythology! I use this book as my "go to" for great research on ancient Greece. In all of my research I've found his to be some of the best around.
very insightful :)
Rating : 4 stars
Probably the definitive work on the Greek Gods and their meaning. You just know that Kerenyi senses the subtle realities behind what he is writing about.
