https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13836.Wild_Magic
No, actually, that's for sure, because I read the Protector of the Small books early enough that I asked for a Kel haircut the first time I went from long locks to short...
Now you know why I love to read these books.
Again, this comes in part from reading the Protector of the Small books first, since the first of that series opens with a spidren eating kittens out of a sack like potato chips, but still.
On the other side, we have this gem of a wizard from 1992: kind, charming, earnestly sweet, caring, and determined to help Daine learn and grow as a person.
This series about a young girl with animal magic seems more like my thing, so I tentatively read it and hoped that I would not be too lost.
This is especially refreshing to me, coming from a glut of YA fiction where every main character has a beautiful, bitchy high school queen bee out for her blood.The plot line was very well done; I was never bored, and I was never lost.
I have weird thing for quick-paced plots where lots of action happen.
The battle felt too rushed, the storytelling lost me at times, and I was confused by the action.
I loved this story when I was younger, and I’m so glad that it hadn’t lost its magic at all, even if I’m a bit older now!I loved Daine in this book and how strong she was!
She fought so hard to protect people, and her animal friends, even if she was a bit stubborn at times.
I also liked the storyline, even if I have read this multiple times before, I remembered everything that happened but it didn’t spoil the story for me at all!
I loved the travelling, the training, the dragon and other magical creatures, and I really loved Numair, even if we won’t get any romance until later in the series.9 out of 10
I mean young women making intelligent decisions and respecting their own bodies, which is something that I have no problem with my 11 or 12 year old daughter reading.
Especially when the alternative seems to be the glorification of partners who are controlling and obsessive, and the propagation of the notion that teenage girls should be innocent flowers.No, I want my girls raised with Alanna and Daine.
I want my girls to believe that they can enlighten a whole society, be powerful warriors, be committed mothers, exceed everyone’s expectations, and save the whales too.
I want my girls to look for partners like George, Jonathon, Numair, or Thayet.Yes, these stories are idealistic and light, but they are powerful.
This is the story of a thirteen-year-old girl, Daine (Veralidaine Sarrasi), who doesn’t have the “Gift”, magic that the rest of her family and community has but has the power to communicate with animals, to the extent that they do as she asks, though at times, they even put themselves in danger to help her as well.
Her new friends including the mage Numair Salmalin, begin to help her understand her true powers and the wild magic that she has and get some measure of control over it.
I went into this book blind, which was probably a good thing.Because, though it should surprise absolutely NOBODY who's read Tamora Pierce, I'm not exactly the target audience for this series of novels.
But YA/Teen fantasy isn't something that I read a lot of, and while anyone can find something to like in this tale, it's definitely teenage girls who will certainly get the most traction from Tamora Pierce's works.Knowing all that, I will try to tailor my review accordingly.
Mini review:DNFAs I have mentioned before Tamora Pierce is a well respected fantasy author. Lately I have been trying to get into her books. Wild Magic in particular caught my eye. I used to watch the Eliza Thornberry cartoon as a child. It sounded like that but in a fantasy setting. Unfortunately this wasn't for me. I am finding that her books just aren't for me. I wasn't invested and just didn't care for the characters. I will not be reading any off her other books. I do still recommend.
Sorry, borrowed.The first book takes place about ten years after Lioness Rampant left off - a lot of familiar characters are here, including Jonathan, Thayet, George, and of course Alanna (we also get to meet Jon and Alanna's respective kids, and even though I knew from the Trickster series that Alanna and George have three kids, my heart still squee'd super hard just like it did at the end of The Deathly Hallows SHUT UP THAT EPILOGUE WAS BEAUTIFUL AND NECESSARY I WILL FIGHT YOU).
As it is, I wish I knew a 11-13 year old girl who loves to read so I could buy this for her.
:)One thing I like to do with books is going into them completely blind with little to no idea what it is about.
At any rate, my point is, I really had no idea what this book was about before I started reading it.
Once I realized that I was able to sit back and really enjoy the story.
Check it out if you haven’t already, it is an easy read and I think anyone could enjoy this book, I know I really liked it!
I have heard so many good things about this book and Tamora Pierce's books in general come highly recommended by some of my Goodreads friends.
All in all, she is a characters that can often be found in epic fantasy: an orphan with special talents who finds new friends and a master who helps her control her unknown abilities and come to terms with her past.
And Tamora Pierce definitely is a skilled author, but in this case, Daine's story just didn't resonate with me personally.
It was the first series I read with a strong girl as the protagonist (I read this before her Alanna series), and I wanted nothing more than to leave my horrible junior high behind and drop into Daine's shoes--even with all the bad stuff that happens to her.
Don't let that scare you--there's still SO much to take from this book and the entire series.Daine faces here fears, ignores the hurt, and battles on (just like Alanna from the Lioness Quartet, yet in a completely different way).
She's a subdued heroine--strong in her own quiet way.
IT WAS REALLY AWESOME IF ONLY THE TRANSLATOR DIDN'T MESS IT UP. I admit this was a long reading. The translation in Indonesian is a mess. It should be a delightful reading. The story was awesome. I never know how much I miss epic fantasy until I read this and get this fulfilment feeling.
This is the first instalment in The Immortals series.This managed to combine all of my favourite fictional elements - a complex magic system, political intrigue, a sprawling fantastical world, villains you can truly hate, an abundance of animals and the most lovable of friendship groups that had me yearning to become of them - and did all of this whilst also creating a unique and consistently exciting story-line. This may only be my first Tamora Pierce book, but it definitely not be the last!
These books are set directly between the Lioness and Protector quartets, so if you have read either there will be many familiar characters, but I also think it wouldn't be too hard to get into with no prior knowledge of the world in which all three series are set.I'm going to go off on a brief tangent again before I get to my main point:One thing that frustrates me hugely about YA fiction today is that mostly the female protagonists are fairly interchangeable.
I think this is my 5th or 6th reread? Yeah. Still a favorite, the book that launched my love of Tamora Pierce. Some of the appeal of this is lost now that I'm an adult and no longer identify so deeply with Daine, but it was still great! This book, and this series, was so hugely influential in my reading life... and I suppose in my life, period, too!
She also might have a little magic herself-and it's so damn cool.This book does reflect when it was written.
Daine, Alanna and Onua are such great role models and I really loved reading from Daine's perspective.The action was good, especially towards the end.
It just seemed like it threw me straight in with no world building (which could be because I hadn't read the Alanna books) but after a while, it straightened itself out and I was just enthralled.
Pierce's writing is pretty clunky in places, and it's especially grating here: The K'mir stuck her finger into a pouch filled with a powder known as "eyebright."And: Supper - fish and a pot of spiced white cereal grains Onua called "rice" - There must be a less heavy-handed way of explaining concepts, especially with the rice.There's more clunky dialogue, too, like this exchange: "Great," Thom said.
My real problem with this book, though (the previous things aren't really problems, or not to the extent this one is; plus Daine and Numair don't actually become a thing until book four, and it's a little unfair of me to hold that against this book): I don't like Daine, who is essentially defined by her Wild magic.
But the tension-that-could-have-been is not there; there is never any concern that Daine will "go bad".(But just think of a moment between Daine and Alanna as Alanna recognizes the loneliness and the power in Daine, and she remembers Thom and shares his story and UGH THE POSSIBILITIES.)This reread just left me wanting more: more conflict, more complexity, more challenge.
Daine, meanwhile, has all her cues laid out in front of her: wild magic, a powerful mage for a teacher, and a god-friend badger who will directly interfere if needed (whereas Alanna's Goddess smiled from afar and didn't meddle).
I don't know! This was never as special as Alanna to me and it still feels a bit THERE. It all seems to come somewhat easy for Daine. No idea what's going on with the plot.I do like all the updates on the Alanna characters. And I like Daine!(Why couldn't Daine have more friends her age??? The few that are there are SO minor.)
4.5 StarsVideo Review: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q2wUH...
After raiders destroy her happy village, a young peasant girl named Daine joins up with the Queen's Own hostler. They travel to Tortall, having dangerous adventures along the way. Once in Tortall, Daine discovers she has Wild Magic, which enables her to communicate and control all animals. Despite the many attacks by monsters, this book lacks any narrative tension, probably because I actively dislike Daine.
After having been so immersed in the Full Cast Audio Circle of Magic world, Tortall almost came as a bit of a shock. A few familiar voices in different roles made for an odd (but not unpleasant) experience. Once I'd gotten used to Daine again though, I remembered how much I had always loved this series too.These productions are amazing, I don't know what I'll do when I get through them all!
There are three more books in the series, so I don't know yet what to say about the whole -- it may get even better, or it may lose the wonder that characterizes Daine's younger years and the beginning of her journey, as told here.
But while some authors will make their characters suffer truly horrific and grizzly things in order to offset just a few moments of transcendental connection and love, Pierce is writing a much gentler series where the sad and frightening events are depicted in a PG-13 sort of way (by no means simple, juvenile, or unintelligent -- just never gory, vulgar, or unnecessarily detailed), and the lovely bits are much more generously interspersed.
Stuff happens and to cut a long story short Daine becomes a mages pupil, makes lots of friends, and gets over her trauma all while dealing with mythical creatures being brought into the world by the villainous Carthakians.
First during the ending battle with the Carthakians Daine spend a lot of time and energy preventing the animals under her influence from fighting.
This dragon is a mage who can throw fire around at will and is seemingly imune to the enemies magic, so rather than flying in, setting fire to the catapults that were the only danger the ships posed and getting out of there, she decides to fly in, set fire to none of the catapults, dash about attack things at random and hang around despite repeated warnings to get out of there.
This was, in many ways, a book that stole my readers virginity.I picked this up in the school library when I was eleven years old, ten years ago.
They opened the floodgate to the river of longing that is my need for fantasy stories, and lots of them.As well as the long-term ramifications of reading the book (and series), it was just delightful to read a story about such a strong young woman, and she had nearly everything I'd ever wanted.
I mean, what eleven year old girl doesn't want the ability to talk to, and turn into, animals?I can't stress enough how much this book changed me.
I got to see all my old and favorite characters I'm in love <3 (view spoiler)[ PLUS ALANNA WITH KIDS HOLY SHIT I WAS SO HAPPY AND GEORGE IS THE PERFECT FATHER (hide spoiler)]Daine was a good fit with the old Tortall group and I liked the new characters too, but I have no idea how to spell any of their names. Daine is fierce like Alanna but she's a bit more wild, which worked for this story. Daine's reaction to being told she could wear pants was hilarious and she was starstruck when she met J
I got to see all my old and favorite characters I'm in love <3 (view spoiler)[ PLUS ALANNA WITH KIDS HOLY SHIT I WAS SO HAPPY AND GEORGE IS THE PERFECT FATHER  (hide spoiler)]Daine was a good fit with the old Tortall group and I liked the new characters too, but I have no idea how to spell any of their names.
Daine is fierce like Alanna but she's a bit more wild, which worked for this story.
The addition of more animals in this story was great especially (view spoiler)[ since I still miss Faithful, cried internally when Alanna showed up without him  (hide spoiler)].
My 15 year old cousin owned and highly recommended I read it.
Befriended by one of the world's strongest mages, she begins to learn how to use her 'wild magic.' *cough* Book title *cough* They will need all the advantages they can get if they're going to save their world.There is nothing particularly special about the writing itself.
Despite those two points against it, I need to know what happens.
Here's the best part of sharing books with a cousin into fantasy; since I bought him the rest of the books for Christmas, I now have access!
I decided to pick this up mainly due to the badger on the cover and that I knew of Tamora Pierce, having previously picked up another book by her. I can say that this was a pleasant surprise.
Along the way, Daine's gift for communicating with animals becomes more and more apparent, and when she alerts Onua to the approach of dangerous Immortals known as Stormwings, who feed off of fear and death, her talent can no longer be ignored.
In this first book of THE IMMORTALS QUARTET, Tamora Pierce returns to the world her LIONESS QUARTET first popularized, and fans of Alanna, Tortall's first female knight, will be pleased to see their favorite lady heroine appear in print once more, but this time as a secondary character to another young girl with the potential to become a strong woman in her own right.
The three star review is a compromise between my younger self (who would have given it 4 1/2) and my present self (who wants to give it a 1 1/2) in acknowledgement that I'm no longer the target audience.First, Pierce's books are fully and thoroughly badass for their genre-defining strong female characters.
That acknowledged, Pierce's books are also...
(view spoiler)[Numair's exact age is never given, but he's described as a full-grown adult---at least 19, and probably more like 21 or 22.
And they deal with the awkwardness of the age gap in later books IIRC.
