https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/735718.The_Mountain_of_Adventure
Boy, was she right!This book had everything.Kids my age as the heroes, a would-be world-enslaving villain who prepared me to meet Goldfinger three or four years later - when I was allowed to hop a bus into town ALL BY MYSELF (okay, modern kids, laugh!) - and a mysterious thundering mountain that got the young heroes into a lot more trouble than anything life had ever thrown at them before.And of course it’s a great book...
AND got me addicted to books BIG TIME.THREE AND A HALF STARS FOR THE UNBEATABLE MEMORIES, ENID!You gave me back my DREAMS, all because...BOOKS were suddenly AWESOME.
Came across my 2003 school reading log, so figured I should enter these books in too. In the words of my ten-year-old self, this book was: "Really, really good!"
I've deducted a star for racism. Otherwise it's by far the best book in the series with a plot worthy of James Bond.I'd thoroughly recommend it but in a modern, less offensive, version.
Petualangan kali ini mendebarkan. Proper review nyusul.
Mountain of Adventure is a story I read and loved as a kid, but unfortunately I forgot both the title and author.
Its an amazing adventure story, filled with intrigue, excitement and humour.As an adult reader I can appreciate these elements and enjoy the story, but its hard to overlook the overt racism and sexism.
However it makes me feel a little sad that these features were part of what is a great adventure story, and that as a kid I accepted and believed them.
If so, the result would be an almost perfect adventure story for young readers.
The fifth in the Adventure series as the title suggests it has a mountain setting in picturesque Wales as they holiday on a farm which delights Philip with so many animals around including Snowy, the kid, a slow worm and donkeys.
This time both Bill and their mother Allie Mannering accompanies the 4 children Philip, Dinah, Jack, Lucy-Ann and not forgetting Kiki but this, of course, doesn't prevent them from finding Adventure.I like the fact that the mystery is slowly unravelled bit by bit not quickly.
But this is obviously a sign of the times they were written but I can't reduce the star rating for this as it wouldn't be fair.
I read most of Enid Blyton's books when I was a child however, I don't remember reading this series so have been working through them. Even as an adult, this was a real page turner and had me wanting to get to the end to find out what would happen. I read it in two sittings and it flew by! My favourite character has got to be Kiki! Can't wait to read the last few books in this series.
Like all the series so far (and, I expect, to come), this book has some exceptional moments - but I find I can't now recall the specific bits that really gripped me, so they obviously weren't that memorable!
The claustrophobic environment is something Enid does very well, and something I have come to associate with this series.
I also found myself mentally applauding Lucy-Ann on two separate occasions; she's always been braver than she seems, but this time she surpassed herself.Unfortunately there's too much wrong with this book for me to score it as highly as its predecessors.
It's slow to get started, and while it's getting there, the Welsh stereotyping is somewhat unpalatable.
The weakest entry in the Adventure series so far.The children travel to the Welsh mountains with Bill and Mrs. Mannering.
Some of that was present here, but perhaps not as much as in her best books.Then the adventure was...
It was one of those science-fiction kind of adventure, like in the otherwise superior Five Get into a Fix, also set in the Welsh mountains.
What's with Blyton and her weird idea of the Welsh mountains?Anyway, the adventure itself was not bad once you get over your incredulity at the science-fiction component.
"Tunggu saja sampai aku sudah memakai sayap antigravitasi. Itu baru benar-benar ajaib." ~ PhilPetualangan di setiap buku pada seri khusus ini memang berbeda. Ada yang menyenangkan ada pula yang membosankan. Kalau buku ini bagi saya menyenangkan, apalagi membayangkan Ladang Kupu-kupu dengan anak kambing yang patuh. Sepertinya sangat lucu sekali. Belum hal-hal yang entah kenapa selalu membawa mereka terjerumus dalam kondisi genting, tanpa disadari. Ah, kalau saya jadi Bu Manning, sepertinya saya bakalan terkena kejang terus-terusan mendengar berita anak-anak ini terjebak di sebuah tempat yang mengerikan.
I think this is probably my least favourite in the series so far, it all seemed really bizarre and far fetched even for an Enid Blyton adventure story. I wasn’t keen on it at all, the story was quite slow going and when it did finally get going the whole King of the Mountain thing was also not brilliant. I am looking forward to reading the rest of the series though as they others in the series are so good.
Much the same as the others, not as exciting as I had expected and after reading I was still unsure of what the machines were that gave of the strange colours and noises. But the characters are still keeping the story moving enough to keep you interested.
This time Jack, Phillip, Dinah and Lucy Ann go to the Welsh mountains.
As Blyton takes pains to explain in most of her books, there are no such dangerous animals in Britain.
At one point one can really feel a sense of tragedy though one knows this is a Blyton book and not some story of Genji where the author is going to kill of protagonist in the end of the story.
Other than the exotic settings compared to her other books, one thing about this book is that the children are thrown into situations where they are forced into adventures against their will.
It has the travelogue feeling, Philip’s way with animals, children showing character, danger, adventure, mystery.
Nice. Very relaxing and easy to read.
It was really good and exciting!
I love Kiki!!!
Membaca karya Enid Blyton sungguh membangkitkan memori masa kecil.Aku suka dan akan selalu suka karya beliau.Walaupun baru sekali nyobain baca petualangan 4 anak ini bersama burung kakatua mereka, ternyata lumayan juga. Walaupun tak seseru saat aku membaca Lima Sekawan.Tapi aku tetap suka! :D
I read it several times.I also read several other books in Enid Blyton's "Adventure" series, but none were as interesting or exciting as this one.
Now I've just reread it as an adult, and several things stand out, including many of the same faults that I had noted in The Secret of Killimooin.
Yet, for all its faults, to my 10-year-old self the story was interesting and exciting.
This one is totally weird, seriously.
Anyway, two sets of brother and sisters go on holiday in the middle of nowhere in Wales with their mum/adopted mum (same person) and some man who I can't figure out how he fits in - he's not with their mum, he's like their policeman friend?
And the kids are in the middle of nowhere and then the mountain they are on starts RUMBLING and they realise they've stumbled into yet another adventure!!1!Ready for a big spoiler?
(view spoiler)[ What they are making inside the mountain that rumbles is WINGS.
Erm...
This book.
Okay.
So. It was interesting?
It's the first time anything unpleasant actually occurs to the children of Enid Blyton's story, for one.
One of the kids gets slapped at one point.
On the other, the girls were slightly whiny, and I didn't appreciate the children's attitude towards the Welsh people.
They very actively poke fun at their guide just because he doesn't speak English.
I loved the parrot though, Kiki was a laugh.Oh, and Bill is so very obviously with the mum.
I wonder why the book didn't say so and just muddled the phrases.
The children find a new adventure while on holidays in the Welsh mountains. I don't remember reading this one back when I was a kid... my least favourite from the series so far. Between mad scientists, an extreme case of disappearing parent/guardian syndrome (even for these books) and Philip's affinity for taming all kinds of animals going completely over the top, this was even more farfetched than usual.
Probably my least favorite. No definitely my least favorite of the Adventure series. We have the same great characters of course, but the world they are in is not our world. At least reading this from a modern perspective the science doesn't make sense. The machines don't make sense. The politics doesn't make sense. The adventure doesn't make sense. But my son and I dutifully read through this book until the bitter end. If you have a choice, though, I recommend skipping this book.
Luke's Review: This book is my favorite because its about 4 children that go for a holiday in the Welsh Mountains but they run into and adventures and become prisoners of a rumbling mountain!! Some parts were so exciting that I could not put the book down. My favorite part of the book was when the kids were on a balcony and they overlooked a big pit - they saw men moving a big slab of rock from the floor of pit to reveal a giant mass of color that they had never seen before!
I remember really enjoying this as a child, and from the state of my copy I read the book to death (the majority of the pages are falling out), as an adult though this really doesn't stand up. The plot is incredibly far-fetched (and I read YA dystopia books as well as 'normal' sci-fi and fantasy) and the characters are not that interesting... That said I can see why a child would enjoy this as it certainly provides fodder for the imagination.
Bill is taking the four children on a holiday by plane. When they get on the plane while he talks to someone at the airport, they don't realize they've gotten on the wrong on. They fall asleep and when they wake have landed in a large wide valley. Bill is not there, only two evil looking thugs. They steal food from their supply and hide up in the mountains, where they discover hidden treasure. A memorable scene is the girls dancing behind a waterfall.
The 4 children, a goat kid and a string of donkeys get lost in the mountains of Wales and find one mountain that is stranger than any other. Soon the children are wandering through corridors carved into the mountain, dodging paratroopers and an especially brainy scientist. All they intended to do was find the Vale of Butterflies. Their policeman friend Bill makes a nick-of-time rescue, but he couldn't have done it without Kiki the parrot and a pack of guard dogs.
I really liked this one, because I enjoy reading about Philip and his animal collection, and he does get so many in this novel. Sally Slither, Snowy and the Alsatian dogs all play their parts, as well as the irrepressible Kiki. I'm not sure I have any left in this series; at least that I own. -Sigh- Why must all good things come to an end?
Ini buku seri Adventure ke-2 (atau ke-3?) yang saya baca. Pendalaman karakter di seri ini kurang, satu anak dengan anak lain ga jauh berbeda dan unik. Mungkin karena saya bacanya ketika sudah dewasa, buku ini agak membosankan dan saya butuh waktu lama sekali menghabiskannya. Walaupun begitu, saya menikmati aliran kata-kata dari penulis dan penerjemahnya.
Like The Sea of Adventure, this lacks the epic and wonderful settings, the lifelong memorable scenes and the heart-stopping sense of peril that the first three books in the series possess in abundance, but it is still a very good adventure story with plenty of hard-core action and danger to keep the children busy!
Just finished another adventure with my mates, this time on The Mountain of Adventure!A peculiar plot indeed but as enjoyable as the rest of the series, what a fantastic way to spend a couple of weeks of summer!We all wanted such wonderful adventures when we were children!
