https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/614206.Who_s_Pulling_Your_Strings_How_to_Break_the_Cycle_of_Manipulation_and_Regain_Control_of_Your_Life
I think that might have been helpful and interesting, but, again, I guess those people are her audience for the book the library didn't have, and not for this one.All in all, I thought it was common-sense and helpful, and I liked it well enough that I still intend to read the book I originally looked for by her ("The Disease to Please").*Which leads me to wonder, aren't there any self-help books around with lovely, soaring prose?
must read for everyone who is subjected to manipulation...after finishing reading the book, I feel a spark of courage (the author mentioned in the last chapter)..the author also gives lots of straight--forward techniques to handle..5/5 rating for me..simply awesome..I thank the author for writing on this subject..
I have recently read several books about manipulation and how to deal how to deal with the manipulators in our lives.
This book gives lots of practical advice for the layperson, more than I found in other books.
I should add that this book confines itself to the everyday type of manipulator rather than the serious antisocial, psychopathic type of individual.
In a way, these more mundane types are harder to get a handle on and may therefore cause more chronic, but not necessarily, less important damage.
It is crucial to a happy life to learn how to cope with such individuals, especially when they are family members.
A wake up call.
Awesome book about NOT letting someone else manipulate you and signs to look for manipulation.
This is a GREAT book about manipulation. And here's why: The focus is not on changing the manipulator. The reality is it's a character trait and some people are just like that and can't really help it, albeit highly, HIGHLY annoying. Instead, the focus is on changing YOUR response and accepting this is how those people will conduct their business, while not accepting how it impacts you and your actions. Anyway, I'd recommend this book, if, like me, manipulative people are a pet peeve. And just remember: it's your choice how you react.
Although I am not currently involved in a manipulative relationship, but this book has made me more aware of the milder, unconscious manipulative behaviour present in everyday social interactions.More importantly, it has given me more courage to draw the line and say "no", if I don't feel like it. I realise that I tend to be a "people pleaser" and try too hard to be a "nice" person. Unlike what society tells us, this behaviour is harmful to one's self-esteem and would eventually lead to unhappiness. Highly recommended self-help book to those "nice" people out there!
wow. I feel rather ridiculous after reading this. have I seriously been that blind and gullible all these years? yep.. I sure have. One of my favorite saying from the buddhacarita is 'there is a time for the truth to be revealed to you. if you don't believe it then it is your loss.' damn me if the alarm clock didn't just sound, time to wake up.
This is a quick easy read for anyone falling prey to the manipulators lurking just about everywhere. A lot is packed into this slim volume. It was an eye opener for me and a good introduction to manipulative personality disorders.
Excellent book! I can't rave enough about it!!! Everyone should read this book!
Very well written and an eye opener.

Having gone through a moderate depression and already done a great amount of reflection and change in my life, the maladaptive habits of soft-targets were already known to me-though I was able to analyze the information from a different perspective, which I appreciated at times.
I enjoyed the 5 real-life examples he gave of manipulative relationships and largely went through the book just to catch the conclusion of those stories.
I would recommend reading this book to most people, but with the disclaimer that if you are a hardened target to manipulation it may drag on for you.
I wish i had read this book many yers ago.
I can't praise it enough, even though i had come to similar conclusions earlier, through trial and error motivated by hurtful encounters.i am not embarrassed to to admit reading a book titled, "Who's pulling your strings" because it's not about being a weak personn.
Strong people can also be manipu'lated by people whom they feel a moral obligation towards,such as family members, just as the book lists them on top.
This book's strnegth is to shedlight on the manpulator's mind and his/her tactics.
One critical aspect of learning to deal with manipulators is to understand their psychology - but that is not nearly enough!This book counsels we also take pity on our own vulnerability and that we arm ourselves with smart, sharp tools.Just as the manipulator becomes more adept with each successful abuse, so too can victims excel at self-protection!Eleanor Cowan, author of : A History of a Pedophile's Wife: Memoir of a Canadian Teacher and Writer
I'm feeling a leeettle bit sheepish about reading this, but when life hands you a passive aggressive doozy, rife with backhanded compliments and hellbent on meddling in your life (without meaning well, I suspect), this is a good place to start. Lessons1. You're a wuss ass.2. Stop being a wuss ass.3. Stay calm and extract. A short read and although I'm not a workbooky kind of person, it had some very practical answers without getting into the toxic people categorizing and nastiness. Extract! Extract! Extract! Now, where's my Dalek?
This was actually pretty great. Especially as far as self help books go. Its a very interactive book that asks lots of questions of the reader and tries to give advice that can actually be used in real life Probably need to test the advice that the author gives in real life but it does seem pretty sound.The author goes through some case studies which were pretty useful for imagining how all of these things work and tying in the theory. Should have spent more time on each of these but was still good overall.
Definitely recommended for anyone who, like me, is susceptible to subordinating one's own feelings and well-being to someone else's. Braiker's overview and advice is extremely easy to follow, not overloaded with case studies (though some are included, just enough to provide examples but not bog the book down). Braiker's self-tests and descriptions resonated with my experiences, and her scripts for dealing with manipulative personalities in a variety of situations would save people struggling in such situations much grief.
If you are a people pleaser, if you feel blame for problems in a relationship, if you feel resentful and angry, dissatisfied and frustrated, if you cannot express your feelings in a relationship, then this might be a good book for you.
The author does not take into account both side of the story, however.
There is always 2 sides to a relationship.
If you only look at one side, that is selfish.
The author never speaks of talking a problem out or getting to the bottom of what is going on.
Who is the manipulator now, if you do as she says?
I feel that it's accurate, but wasn't transforming for me.And I go back now... a few days later and think I judged this book too harshly. I think it spent more time convincing the reader that manipulation is real and possible and I didn't need that convincing. I was anxious to get onto the meat of how to be less susceptible, how to combat it, etc etc. Some pretty good insights and healthy tips in here.
It is a great pity that this psychologist died so young, but I am so grateful that she took the time to write the books that she did write beforehand, so that we could have the benefit of her brilliance. This book is the best book on manipulation out there. It gives remarkable straightforward description of manipulative tactics, as well as the tools to deal with them. Compassionately written but with plenty of savvy. This book merits a digital edition. It is still worthy.
The first nine chapters of this book do a great job of convincing the reader that all humans are manipulators. These chapters make you suspect: yourself, your elders, your cat, your dog -- everyone, to be a manipulator. In short, this book came off as too negative and pessimistic for my liking but,other readers may get use out of the self diagnostic resources within the book.
An excellent resource if you know or suspect you may be in a manipulative relationship. This book will help you identify your vulnerabilities to manipulation, resist manipulative strategies in your relationships, and correct the faulty thinking that led you into the situation. Very practical and immediately applicable.
This is one of those self-help books that I really found helpful! One of the things I learned about that can be unconstructive in my life and leave me open to manipulation is that I tend to rely on other people's opinions about my decisions too much and ask for input from too many people rather than trusting my own judgement and instinct. What do you think???
I found the book rather dry. Neither did I find much value in the advice and how it was presented. The author needed to have stories and examples throughout the book and not just the first and last chapters.
There is a thin line between being kind generous and loving and being manipulated. this book is a must read if u want to understand, and address the problem of manipulation. One of the best books I have recently read. Highly recommended
This isn't a bad book-however, imho, the author spends too much time defining what manipulative behavior is. Even if you didn't know, the number of chapters devoted to this is way too much relative to what to do about manipulative people.
Really helpful!
Well done. Insightful. Practical.
Extremely useful tools. I recommend this book to anyone who thinks they might be in a manipulative relationship of any kind - work, home, etc.
