https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40102.Blink
The results basically corresponded with impressions given by other students who spent an entire class with those professors - thus proving that there is some mysterious and powerful part of our subconscious that can make accurate snap judgments.But then later on in the book, in the "rapid cognition is bad" section, Gladwell warns us that, in general, people instantly like tall, attractive white people better than short, unattractive minorities.WELL DUH!
As an empirical psychologist by training, I get very annoyed at journalists who simplify things to the point that its no longer even remotely accurate. Such is the case for Blink. This is especially annoying to me, because the book describes my area of research specialization. If you're interested in a fun read, Gladwell is certainly an engaging author. If you're looking for something that accurately describes the research, I'd recommend looking elsewhere. For example, Scott Plous's "the psychology of judgment and decision making" (which, despite the title, is not textbook like), or the Heath brothers' "Made to stick".
Blink  is- what all the stories, case studies, and arguments add up to- an attempt to understand the magical and mysterious thing called Judgement. Its basic premise is: split second decisions (snap judgements); how they can be good and bad. Gladwell suggests split-seconds decisions are better than the decisions where we take considerable time to weigh our choices and options. He points out that our mind figure things, people, et al. in a blink of an eye. And it is often that these snap judgeme
is- what all the stories, case studies, and arguments add up to- an attempt to understand the magical and mysterious thing called Judgement.
Its basic premise is: split second decisions (snap judgements); how they can be good and bad.
Gladwell suggests split-seconds decisions are better than the decisions where we take considerable time to weigh our choices and options.
He suggested that there are some instinctive processes that prevent us to see clearly; and hence cloud our judgements.
Blink is an interesting read.
This subtitle was something Zen like, I felt.
But then again, I'm not 100% sure I got the whole point.Most of the folks I know think that this book is about how a person's gut instincts can be a better read of a situation than a read based on thorough study.
What's missing from that analysis is that Gladwell later insists (but only at the very end of the book, and almost in passing) that it's the thorough active training and study of a subject that allow a person to have "true" or "correct" gut reads.
While I have read some negative reviews of Gladwell's book, mostly citing that he fails to inform the reader how to know when to go with your gut and when not to, as well as arguments that he urges readers not to follow their gut when the gut instincts are politically incorrect, I have to disagree with many of them.
On the flip side, he also argues that sometimes we unconsciously make negative decisions based on that same quick judgment and our predetermined stereotypes, such as with people of other sexes or other races than ourselves.
The man pulls interesting case studies from academic research and news headlines, spins it into a book under a general theme, and blammo!
The book is a pleasure to read simply because of its case studies.
(After reading another one of Gladwell's peppy articles in The New Yorker, my husband joked, "Gladwell thinks he can make ANYTHING seem interesting.")After finishing Blink, I feel like I've learned something important, but I'm not sure exactly what, other than that Gladwell has a very charmed career.My rating: 3.5 stars rounded up to 4
She likes to plan everything down to the last detail and I like to be a bit more relaxed.So it would seem that this book is a big proponent of my way of doing things, but it turns out it's not so much.We should trust our gut-instinct, says Blink, if we have many hours of experience in said realm of understanding because we have developed the skills to make sense of those small details and because we have the ability to "thin slice." Gladwell also makes the point that not always can we trust our gut-intinct, however, because our gut-instinct tends to be racist, even when we are not in fact consciously racist.
Four cops think a guy has a gun when he’s pulling his wallet out and shoot him multiple times.We’ve all made quick decisions and later been amazed at how good or bad they turned out, but what makes Blink interesting is that Gladwell does some examination of the science behind how we arrive at these conclusions, and his thoughts on how the data we’re processing can either give us incredible insight or lead us horribly wrong.Thankfully, Gladwell is not making an argument against logical thinking or analyzing a problem.
This was a big best-seller for Gladwell.
He posits that much of the time we make decisions, reach conclusions in a sort of pre-conscious manner that he calls “thin-slicing.” That means taking a very small sample, a thin slice, and making a decision immediately based on that information.
However, it is the case that the ability to evaluate that slice is fed by a lifetime of experience.
It is not simply, as some, including President Bush the second, might believe, that using one’s gut, in the absence of years and years of preparation, is as valid a way of reaching decisions as taking the longer route of careful analysis of available data.
so i bought this book in boston's logan airport about 10 minutes before i had to board a flight to seattle.
the bookstore was limited; i didn't want to have to work to get interested.
don't get me wrong, i finished the book.
back in boston, on the T.
and it did cover some interesting studies, or i wouldn't have done so.
but i suspect the author might've lacked the attention span necessary to lend this book any coherence.
the best i can say about this book is that there were a couple of well-set-up digs at the bush administration and i discovered the music of kenna, who's pretty cool.
I didn't learn much from this book that I did not already know.
When he lays out the facts, though, his writing is no more interesting than any other scientific author.
However if you want to learn something new, this book or his previous effort, The Tipping Point, is not where to go to find it.
First impressions are often more accurate than conclusions arrived at after much study and analysis.
He does come up with an interesting term, "thin slicing", to describe the process of taking in a first impression.
Maybe learning that term made reading the whole book worthwhile.
They are mostly aligning, only Kahneman suggests against making snap judgements and relying more on evidence whereas Gladwell gives views from both sides and stays impartial.Blink is about unconscious decision making.
Our unconscious side is fascinating, because it seems to be the one that holds the strings most of the time; making very fast decisions, watching out for any threat to our existence.
The rational mind is also there to make corrections, and making plans.
But at other times even if there is an urge to act instinctively, one should act relying on data rather than on instinct.
Probably the best among Gladwell's books. He still stands true to his success mantra - "Gladwell - The Power of Inductive Reasoning." But, it was still a well researched and informative book. Blink.
It may well be that Gladwell’s style does not appeal to an expert in the field – and that is quite likely to be true, but I’ve found that it is often the case that I’ve been introduced to themes by popularisers and later went on to read more deeply on a subject.
You know, unless you actually have some idea of what you are talking about, it might be best to shut up and drink the wine.That is the point of this book – learning when to trust your “immediate reactions” and when to question them.
Malcolm Gladwell engagingly writes about how decisions made in a blink--snap judgments--can be very good.
A series of entertaining anecdotes and psychological studies show that first impressions can be good in some cases, especially in areas where people have experience.
He also writes about experts who analyze facial expressions, and how autistic people have trouble making certain types of judgment calls.But then he goes on to show how our unconscious mind can also be very prejudiced.
Experience played a big part in having good judgment making quick decisions.
Gladwell does not get into how the brain works in making decisions.
Their point is simply that when we put something in our mouth and in that blink of an eye decide whether it tastes good or not, we are reacting not only to the evidence from our taste buds and salivary glands but also to the evidence of our eyes and memories and imaginations, and it is foolish of company to service one dimension and ignore the other.Emotion can also start on the face.
This is how the human body reacts to extreme stress, and it makes sense.
If a person can't rely on first impressions, or what the author refers to as "thin slice" representations of performance or taste, what good is there in talking about it at all?Then I started thinking about why I read this book in the first place.
We need to accept our ignorance and say 'I don't know' more often.""How good people's decisions are under the fast-moving, high-stress conditions of rapid cognition is a function of training and rules and rehearsal."Gladwell does seem to be saying that if you understand the limitations of snap-judgments, you can train yourself to try to lessen bias, prejudice, and incorrect assumptions.
مالکوم گلادول میآموزد که گاهی همانند ماجرای مجسمهی کورو یا شبیهسازی جنگ، باید به حس خود اعتماد داشته باشیم و تجزیه و تحلیل اضافی جز خراب کردن تصمیممان، فایدهای ندارد. (مصداق خطایی که دیگران مانند دوبلی، کانمن و نسیم طالب به عنوان خطای اطلاعات اضافی مطرح میکنند) گاهی هم مانند قضیهی نوشابههای پپسی و ماجرای دیالو باید از ناخودآگاه پیروی نکرد و بررسی دقیقتری نمود. البته که تمرین زیاد ممکن است باعث شود متخصصانی بوجود بیایند و مهارتی کسب نمایند که ناخودآگاهشان از خودآگاهشان دقیقتر باشد.در ماجرای کوککا
(البته که بی‌تأثیر هم نیست)کتاب نسبتا خوب ترجمه شده بود ولی ای کاش مترجم، نوشتار لاتین اسامی فراوانی که در کتاب نام برده شده‌اند را به صورت زیرنویس می‌آورد تا مراجعه به اطلاعات تکمیلی آسانتر باشد یا حداقل بتوانیم این اسمها را درست تلفظ کنیم.
A really great study on how important the first few seconds of anything can be, in any particular situation. Be it that you're an art expert who instantly knows an object is fake, or a police man who thinks that the victim is pulling a gun out of their pocket rather than a wallet, it's very clear that human beings do have this constant auto-pilot running, an unconscious "survival mode" that gives us most of the clues we might need in the "blink" of an eye, and sometimes those clues might be wrong.
Gladwell continues his exploration of counter-intuitive ideas about decision-making in BLINK!
Documentation, and scientific analysis had been relied on as support.
This is the first of many stories Gladwell uses to illustrate how an intuitive reaction can trump logic and analysis.Among the factors that cloud logic is something he calls the adaptive unconscious.
Extrapolating from these examples, one might conclude that the casual reader will be highly influenced when reviewing a book by his mood or even surroundings at the time of reading.Gladwell explores other impediments to logical thinking, logic being a type of perceptual filter.
Initial reaction, Gladwell points out is not always accurate.
I don't know why that came out so long winded, the reader will find out how interested they are by the first or second chapter.I found the book fascinating for its close look into social interactions, particularly between two people, and for explaining why i sometimes I think the way that I do.
The intuitive process of understanding is one that has made a lot of sense to me, and I am glad this book takes a microscope to that underpinning of society's operation.
A must read - really interesting stories about how people process things unconsciously.
- for instance, you can't hide your feeling about race from your unconscious - take the Race Test (http://www.understandingprejudice.org...).
It said I (and 13% of test-takers) have a 'moderate automatic preference for European American compared to African American'.
It also said 48% of test-takers have a "Strong automatic preference for White people" - crazy!
- I loved the bit about President Warren Harding (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Warren_H...), who - according to the author, basically got elected because he "looked presidential".
I firmly believe looks matter - hey after all I do live in CA where we have the Governator...
I've heard mostly good things about Gladwell, and he had a pretty interesting TED talk, and I enjoy almost anything to do with the brain, so...why not?The book certainly brought up a lot of interesting ideas and did a good job of discussing the different elements that go into the snap decisions that we make every day.
Two other aspects of this book stuck out as major frustrations for me:1) Gladwell spends a lot of time early on talking about the mysterious nature of our ability to thin slice (make accurate snap judgments based on very little information) and urges us to accept this.
مثلا اینکه پلیس توی یک لحظه تشخیص بده چیزی که مظنون توی دستش داره کیفه یا تفنگ می تونه برای هر دوشون گرون تموم بشه.البته نمی گه کجاها خوبه و کجاها بد.
از طرف دیگه این تصمیم های شهودی و آنی طوری نیستند که ما ازش آگاه باشیم.
البته نگفت مگه ملت بیکارن تا بخوان هر روز برای همه استریوتایپ هایی که وجود داره تمرین کنن تا قضاوت نادرستی نکنن.مطالعه های موردی کتاب و نمونه ها هم خیلی زیاد بودن.
Oh, what precious reading time I wasted on this book!
My feelings on this book are quite similar to how I felt about The Tipping Point: How Little Things Can Make a Big Difference (my review) so I'll keep this review short.
My first thought after finishing this was: did I really just read 200+ pages on what is essentially the good and bad of gut reactions?
There was nothing new for me here and that may not entirely be Gladwell's fault but nevertheless I could not enjoy this book.
I feel he meanders and that there are so many unfinished thoughts and ideas.
I recommend this book to no one.
Total Waste Of Timee,BorBorBoringgg!!
3.5 stars. Review to come.It wasn;t upto the mark as I had expected.
Even as a general reader, I find this book says a lot of things but does not actually tell you what it actually wants to address.
Firstly, I love case studies with interesting results written by someone who can write in a way you will find the whole experience exhilarating.
Secondly, this guy deserves a five star because he is making less known but thought-provoking scientific studies to a much wider audience.
Finally, I love non-fiction which uses a lot of anecdotes to state a fact rather just directly stating the fact it wants to address.
I recommend it to anyone who loves to read about interesting psychological studies.
Blink is an interesting read.
The book is about making decisions in the blink of an eye, to be precise.
The author says that decisions which are made instantly are far more fruitful than those made with long drawn research and logical thinking.
He cites many examples which are also interesting to read.
Equally interesting was the last example of Abbie Connant playing the trombone traditionally played by a male in the Munich Philharmonic Orchestra.However, somehow the theory did not appeal to me.
The book might appeal more to psychologists or psychiatrists.
What I will point out are two examples of how this book remains relevant today.First example is the recent campaign by Coca-Cola to sell specially colored white/silver cans of Coke over the 2011-2012 winter season to support “the plight of the polar bears.” Now, regardless of what you think about the motivation, the Cokeheads didn’t do their homework very well.
Well, the nurse reached into the small refrig and pulled out what looked like a Diet Coke but was really one of the special white/silver regular Coke cans.
Had the human factors folks at Coke read this book, maybe they would have noted this.I like Gladwell.
