https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/61004.The_ABC_of_Anarchism
The International headquarters of the Industrial Workers of the World was there above something I recall as "The Armenian-American Soup Kitchen." So was DePaul University and the Chicago Theological Seminary--the reason the restaurant on the corner of Fullerton and Halsted is still called the "Seminary." Down Halsted there was a used bookstore, The Guild, filled with middle-aged communists with whom I used to argue and from which I bought my first book by C.G. Jung.
Old, woody, dusty, but organized, yes, organized: Calabrian labour, IWW, Coordinadora, Spanish Civil War, Socialism, Anarcho-Syndicalism, et cetera.My first purchase was Berkman's The ABC of Anarchism.
His argument here seems to boil down to "They are a lot more violent than we are." It seems like he didn't expect his own violent actions to spark the revolution, it was more like, Frick was being all gangsta and Berkman was like, he needs to get got.
Frick are more thoughtful.This book gets really good at the end, though, and the chapter about what kinds of labor unions we need to make a social revolution was great.
This was written after the tragedy of Bolshevism, and Berkman uses the Russian Revolution as an example a lot, what they did right, what they did wrong.
Still very applicable today, and not difficult to read (compared to other radicals) despite being nearly one hundred years old.But, I have a problem with his use of certain words, such as 'barbarians' and 'civilized'.
Yes, I understand now that the general strike is the vital first stage of the social revolution today.
Yes, I understand the workers must throw out their bosses and managers as the first stage of revolution.
The repetition going nowhere eventually led me to skipping the sections of the last 20 pages, about production and so on.Nonetheless, I would encourage any readers curious about the topic to read this early on in their self-education.
Buku saki yang sangat praktis dibawa kemana-mana sangat cocok untuk bacaan para pemula. Disini dikupas habis semua pertanyaan yang menuju ketidakmungkinan dalam penerapan anarkisme. Dan tentunya merupakan sudut pandang baru terhadap saya, bahwa anarkisme tidak seanarkis yg saya pikirkan sebelumnya. disini juga dibahas pendapat tentang marxisme melalui sudut pandang anarkis.
Although a bit outdated, this was a very enjoyable read.
Terutama media massa sering menggunakan kata anarkis sebagai padanan untuk aksi yang awut-awutan, bar-bar, tidak teratur, uwuh, dan biang kerusuhan.
Opini media massa itu kemudian dianggap sebagai kebenaran oleh masyarakat awam.Anarkisme sebenarnya adalah pandangan politik dan filosofis yang menolak adanya pemerintah.
Anarkisme menolak birokrasi dan lembaga serupa yang memiliki sifat memaksa atau melanggengkan ideologi kelas borjuis yang menindas.Selain menangkis anggapan miring tentang anarkisme, Berkman juga menjelaskan ragam anarkisme.
Macam-macam anarkisme; anarko-sindikalis, anarko-pasifis, anarko-feminis, anarko-kapitalis, anarko-individualis, dan lain-lain.Revolusi atau konfrontasi langsung tidak dapat dihindari dan mau-tidak-mau merupakan jalan satu-satunya menghilangkan kelas yang menindas itu.
I recall one of my anarchist comrades saying she wasn't too impressed with it, that the "translation" was bad (although it was written in English, but she may have meant that Berkman's English wasn't good enough).
I thought it was good enough as an introduction, and I still do, although I admit that Berkman does not break a lot of new ground or engage with radical theory on a very high level.
In that sense it still seems to me an adequate, if not ground-breaking, piece, which deserves consideration by political activists today.
Nos encontraremos con gente trabajando en condiciones peores que las actuales, durante más tiempo y por un peor salario.
Por eso, el libro usa un vocabulario en extremo sencillo, sin tecnicismos, y en algún momento puede incluso llegar a parecer infantil.
Según he leído, en la época no era muy raro que varias personas se reuniesen en su tiempo libre (por la noche) para que una de ellas leyese en voz alta, ya fuesen folletos, o libros como este.Dicho esto, el libro me ha precido una introducción muy buena, y me ha hecho pensar en facetas sobre las que nunca antes había reflexionado.
Alexander Berkman was a well known anarchist in the later 19th and early part of the 20th century.
He took part in a number of events, including an effort to assassinate a leading industrialist.
After years in prison, he continued his activism, editing publications for instance.
This book is an example of his political views.
He was hardly the most cerebral and talented of the writers in this movement.
But he does address many key questions in his own voice, such as "Is anarchism violence?"; "What is anarchism?"; "Is anarchy possible?"; and so on.If you want a brief introduction to Berkman's views, this will suffice nicely.
What should be a middle schooler's primer on the basic tenets of 20thc Anarchism is actually this book which would prove unreadable to cynical hipsters or bootstrap dems/reps. Berkman's is a world of people who live even grander than the promises of liberalism. Berkman just lays it out, simply, all the creative bountiful joys we should be enjoying on planet earth *because we are alive.* Then he tells ya how to get there from here. Not because we toil, but because creation and production and fruition are our birthright and achievable through equitable social structures like those found in Anarchism.
Sencillamente maravilloso. Se esté de acuerdo o no con el ideario anarquista, obra imprescindible para entenderlo. Alexander Berkman recoge una síntesis de las ideas fundamentales del movimiento, desmiente todos los falsos mitos construidos alrededor del anarquismo, hace una crítica a los recientes sucesos de la Revolución Rusa y el bolchevismo (dada la época en que se escribió el libro -1928-), así como, lo que es aún más importante, una explicación sobre cómo lograr la revolución social y qué hacer a continuación.
I was already turned away from capitalism when I read this book and it did a really good job of showing how under current conditions socialism would never take over however it didn't really paint a feasible picture of what an ideal, functioning anarchist world would look like. This is a great book for socialists and capitolists to use to question their own way of thinking. For the anarchist this is a great book for building your arguments and getting a better foundation of what anarchy can be.
Not the most fleshed-out description of anarchist thought, but a good intro. Tends to get lost in utopian speculation. The real wealth here is in Berkman's deconstruction of western values and the assumptions that underlie our conceptions of civilization- e.g, I especially enjoyed his perspective on war.
No better book on Anarchism. It's written with language anyone can understand, and after reading many people say, "Huh, I'm an anarchist."Forget that the term Anarchism has been demonized in the U.S. for the last century and pick up this book to find out what it is and if you're one.
Simplistic arguments but great introduction and education on Anarchism and Communist Anarchism. I read this right after reading Rousseau's Social Contract, and saw many similarities which was unexpected!
Great book of early communist anarchism. A great critical review of the Bolshevic revolution
THIS IS THE BEST!
A lot of questions seem to be left out or simply dismissed by "people would not do this", when he tries to argue that after the revolution everyone would live in harmony.Overall, this text made me understand better Marx's attitudes towards anarchists and what he called utopian socialists, because this is very unconvincing indeed.
Perhaps, and I do believe that, there are better texts, which do not seem written by a highschooler.I did get suspicious from the beginning when he argues that sociologists, philosophers and psychologists have been wasting their time writing tomes about what people want when it is plainly obvious.
Most of the theory was for me neither new nor particularly novel, but I imagine those without a basic understanding will learn a lot about anarchism (or more specifically anarcho-communist tendencies).
He also cites concrete examples to demonstrate certain points, referencing sources so the reader can do their own research.The main strength of Berkman's arguments is in grappling with the aftermath of the Russian Revolution, in particular political shifts leading to the control of the Bolsheviks over the government.
a more centralized approach.The primary weakness of the book is that it's very much "of its time" and therefore can't substantively address how capitalism has evolved, particularly since WWII.
This format is used inconsistently after hte first couple of pages and doesn't show up when harbor-sized plotholes appear.Ill give an example.Early on he is discussing the maintaining of law & order under Anarchism.
Anyone who wasnt innately good and helpful is insane and would be in an asylum."This is so ridiculous on so many levels.
The patronizing tone Berkman purposely employs only goes to further highlight the shallowness of his arguments.When discussing the need to maintain factories/production after the revolution he states that you dont need to worry about profit and loss, and operational efficiency, and the business mechanics of running a factory - magically without "capitalism", economic issues disappear.Communism isnt the elimination of an economy, but just a replacing with a centrally managed one.
Buku yang menarik dibaca. Sebagian dari kita kebanyakan tahu bahwa Anarkisme itu adalah buruk dan tak patut ditiru. Tentu, hal tersebut datang dari media yang begitu sering kita dengar menggunakan istilah anarkisme. “Pendemo bersikap anarkis..”, “Gagal bertemu pimpinan, para mahasiswa bersikap anarkis..” dll. Di buku ini Berkman mencoba meluruskan pandangan mengenai anarkisme secara umum dan mendoktrin pembacanya dalam sebuah utopia tanpa kuasa. Berkman juga menyajikan metode-metode yang berangkat dari pengalaman lapangan untuk mencapai revolusi anarkis. Buku yang memiliki ukuran yang relatif kecil ini selain mudah dibawa kemana-mana, juga menambah pengetahuan kita dalam menangani kesalahpahaman mengenai anarkisme itu sendiri.
Alexander Berkman adalah seorang tokoh anarkisme terkemuka yang wara-wiri mengobarkan revolusi di Amerika Serikat dan Rusia pada awal abad 20.
Dalam buku ini, beliau mencoba meluruskan pandangan mengenai anarkisme secara umum dan mendoktrin pembacanya dalam sebuah utopia tanpa kuasa.
Buku ini penuh mimpi, tetapi sangat jujur dan teknis.
Tidak hanya gagasan, Berkman juga menyajikan metode-metode dan instrumen-instrumen yang telah diuji oleh pengalaman lapangan dalam mencapai revolusi anarkis.
Buku ini menarik dibaca untuk menambah pengetahuan, terutama untuk menangani kesalahpahaman radikal mengenai anarkisme.
Buku ini dicetak dengan ukuran yang relatif kecil, mudah dibawa ke mana-mana; betul-betul sebuah panduan bagi pemula.
Sejauh ini, ABC Anarkisme merupakan buku terbaik sebagai pengantar Anarkisme. Namun perlu di ingat ini baru pengantar, pengalaman saya setelah membaca buku ini adalah merasa sudah paham anarkisme namun setelah ingat, ternyata ini baru pengantar
hot damn that is some prime agitprop
Libro más que necesario para entender el movimiento libertario aunque, por supuesto, algunas cosillas se queden desfasadas, la esencia envejece bien
Good vibes
The best introductory text on anarchism that I've read. Makes a compelling argument in a concise structure with mostly working class language. A great primer. Very surprised by this one.
di beberapa bagian awal, saya tidak setuju dengan buku ini, terutama soal tidak diperlukannya institusi (organisasi sosial) dalam masyarakat.
institusi adalah produk manusia setelah memapankan agrikultur untuk pemenuhan kebutuhan pangan, seiring manusia menciptakan kesenian (lagu, tari-tarian, cerita-cerita), teknologi, dan sistem religi.di bagian tengah, saya mulai suka dan menikmati penjelasan-penjelasan berkman.
buku ini kurang detail menggambarkan cita-cita yang akan dicapainya.buku ini tetap perlu untuk dibaca.catatan: saya membaca versi terjemahan bahasa indonesia buku ini.
tapi saya tidak menemukan versi itu di website ini.
saya menemukan satu lagi bukti betapa sulitnya mendapatkan buku bagus di negara ini.
Berkman gives the reader a hasty, underdeveloped idea of communist anarchism, but is fervent and detailed in his description of how the revolution for such a system ought to come about.
I found this ironic, too, as the author repeatedly stresses throughout the book that preparing for what is to come after the revolution is more important than the revolution itself.
In the author's defence, this is an introductory book, and an exhaustive explanation of the system would turn away many readers (note: this book's target audience was the industrial proletariat of the early 20th century), so it makes sense that he focuses on revolution to unite and galvanize the labourers and inspire hope within them.
Very good book, introducing anarchist theory in simple and accessible terms.
Berkman is very enjoyable to read and the prose is often inspiring.He engages with critics of anarchism and helps dispel any serious opposition to it as a potential form of organisation.
This is particularly useful as a point of reference when dealing with sceptical friends.The reason I have not given it five stars is that the latter part of the book is somewhat dated and I feel less relevant to the issues we face now.
