https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35349.She_Who_Remembers
Let's "open my legs" and he'll protect me.Kwani : My new mate has met people and wants to trade with them.
what's a little legs-opening between friends, eh ?Kwani : The stranger was kind and did not share me with his friends.
Now I have a man who will protect me.Kwani : I feel ashamed.
I am healed now and I have tried a little legs-opening but Kokopelli has rejected me.
my young body has urges you know and it's been such a long time since crooked-foot.Kwani : At last, I could experience Kokopelli's "baby-maker".
Unfortunately, we both found Shuler's work to be in sharp contrast to Auel's.
This experience tended to leave me with a permanent distrust for laudatory blurbs for any given book from other authors; I've always suspected (though I never investigated it to confirm or disprove the idea!) that Auel and Shuler may have had the same publisher for their hardcover editions, and that the firm's management may have used their leverage to pressure Auel for an endorsement.
Ever want to know who this Kokopelli guy is?
You know the guy with the flute that's in so much native american art?
Well, now's your chance.
This books is a great mix of myth, fact, and entertaining fiction.
I suggest it for anyone 18 and older.
I think women would enjoy it more, as it focuses more on the female side of things.
But I'd recomend it for men, too.Keep in mind, if you decide to read this, that the first time I read it was in college.
My Native American History professor had all of his classes read it.
Ain't college odd?
This novel was to be an “American pre history novel” about the ANAsazi Indians 1270 AD . I very much like well researched historical fiction and hoped for much from this book. The book jacket stated we would learn about KOKOpelli.Oh what a disappointment. There was no clue that this would be A bodice riper romp {really rabbit skins}. I didn’t even find it amusing that Vikings were roaming the South west.no from me .
we judge too quickly, don't we, about so much, about so many people. this story takes outcasts and gives them a chance to tell us their story, as well as the outcasts giving others the same opportunity. an amazing bit of literature!
She Who Remembers is the first book in the Kwani series by Linda Lay Shuler.
And while I see some similarities, I don't think it's quite as engaging as that series.Kwani is of the Pueblo, Anasazi actually.
But Kwani may be meant for more, and will her love for Kokopelli hold her back?I can't say that any of the characters in this book are really likable.
I can understand when she goes to tribes that are not Anasazi and having to learn the customs, but that wasn't the case all the time.
So much of what Kwani had to endure was probably true to the times and realistic.
Kwani journeys far before her child is born, meets much evil but also four men who love her.
(or think they do) One is Thorvald, another blue eyed one and a Norseman who wishes to take Kwani as a captive to Norway.
Tolanqua, like Kwani has dreamed of the White buffalo and wishes no harm to her child.
Events come together in the canyon where Kwani's child is born and Tolanqua nearly meets his death.I really liked this novel of the Native Americans before the white man came except the white man had already come in the form of the North Men. It left me with more questions than answers.
This book is interesting because it gives context to the pueblo ruins in the southwest.
It has flaws, but it is a fiction book and as I see it, this book was researched well considering what information is available for "pre-history".
The list of references at the end of the book is impressive.
Lyn does a great job.
The book has been engaging all the way.
It is a long book about a young 16 year-old Anasazi woman and her adventures in her growth.
If you like the subject matter and are willing to take a bit of time to read it, I recommend it.
So when I actually stepped into Mesa Verde, I didn't see a ghost town of lifeless abandonment, I saw all the ceremonies, dances, kiva fires, and normal daily life that was the whole of "She Who Remembers".
The story itself was entertaining, and I LOVE her theory on Kokopelli and his wide-spread popularity!
His magical ways and wares convinced people he was a god, and he played it up.
I loved the female-centric power, and the interactions between everybody.
A fun vacation read, and the BEST for a Southwest Mesa Verde vacation!
Kwani is a southwest-American girl whose father was blond with blue eyes, probably a Viking, and she has blue eyes.
The story is entirely realistic about the bargains women had to make with men to get food and shelter.
When Kwani travels to a cliff dwelling town she sees how corn is grown to feed large numbers of people, the women doing the work of growing and grinding the corn, making pottery and baskets, while men hunt for a deer to add to the pot.
When Kwani decides to go with him she is taking herself away from the jealous settled women and from some good friends.
Great love story and wonderful look into the lives of native americans.
I love the way she paints a view of how everything looks, and I have been to some similar ruins when I was younger so that helped me paint the picture in my mind.
Happy ending :) I was slightly annoyed at how easily opinions were swayed by the idea that 'the Gods spoke to' so and so.
Anyone could create their own power and everyone's opinion could be changed at anytime with just a simple lie.
Her character was written up and described so well.I kept getting swept up in this novel, and to be frank was sad at it's ending.
Isn't that the way with all great novels, the closer we get the end the more we want to stretch it out.I would love to find more books like this one.I will be editing this review in the future after I re-read, but let me just say that this is definetely on my top 10 favorites list, and I can't wait to check out some of the other novels by Linda Lay Shuler.
This was a fantastic and engaging book that provides the context of the pueblo ruins in the southwest.
Mixing fiction, myth and fact, Schuler has certainly done her research to create a compelling tale.
Unlike some historical fiction, I never felt like I was receiving a dissertation, but rather the fact was cleverly woven into the story.
I went to Mesa Verde two summers ago and I think one of the motivating factors was actually having read this series.
I’d highly recommend it to anyone interested in visiting that part of the country.Warning: Sexual content and some explicit moments.Who should read it?
Good read if you like books set from a historical angle. It reflects what the lives of early American Indians were like. It was rich in ceremonial traditions, hunting rituals, and described the landscape of the plains and deserts set around a story of a woman and the men who loved her. The author even worked in the Vikings making their way to the Americas and making markings and inscriptions on stones, which is now known as the Runestones in Heavener, Oklahoma. I have visited this historic site, so this made the book more interesting to me.
Very much like Clan of the Cave Bear except the first few chapters would've filled a whole book if it was written by Jean M. Auel!Really enjoyed this, didn't want to put it down.Didn't always agree with Kwani's behaviour and she seemed to get through men (Wopio, Ute, Kokopelli, Okalake and Tolonqua) but she was a compelling character.Will have to read the sequels. Book versions seem a bit tricky to get hold of but there are cheap ebook editions.
I loved this book. It's a great story about an Anasazi women who is accused of being a witch and driven from her home. I have been studying the Pueblo people in one of my classes, and this story has a ton of historical accuracy. I couldn't put it down, and at the end, I had to run to the library to get the 2nd book to see what will happen to Kwani.
Alltough fiction it was a real world and felt strangely familiair as if i had been there myself.. A culture superior to many others in its ethics as linda describes it. The book helps to reconnect with nature and a more harmonious hollistic reconnection with all that is.
Brilliantwell written, edited almost to perfection, great story line. also brilliantly interesting. loved this book. it is very long, but kept my interest. with a magnificent heroine, who goes through too much to be true, it is a captivating story.
Shueler is North Americas answer to Jean Auel... Her characters tranverse the continent and through them we learn about all number of paleoindian and later societies. I would recomend them to anyone who enjoys Auel.
Stumbled upon this book on Kindle and decided to give it a try. Must say I absolutely loved it. It's a great read.
Could not stop readingThis story easily captured my attention and drew me into the plot as if I was remembering a past I had long forgotten.
My absolute FAVORITE BOOK about an Anasazi woman who was ostracized because she had "Blue" eyes.We haven't learned anything have we. We still find something to hate about one another, don't we?
Chic Lit. "Kokopelli's man part had swelled to astonishing proportions. LOL. Secretly, men envied the organ thrusting upward to such heights. PLEASE.
almost like a kid is writing it...
Kwani is not a young woman I would want any young person to read about, like or emulate..
she is independent when it suits her but most of the time she's looking for a mate to protect her..
plus she makes some pretty terrible decisions which cause people to fear or dislike her usually cuz she's too busy trying to find a mate or have sex..
even though she's got a 'mate' ....
not that a pregnant woman isn't beautiful...
I actually set it down for a day but then I decided if I wanted to write a scathing review I better finish it...
Well, wasn't that a huge disappointment?
Seriously, whiny protagonist who seemed to solve every problem she encountered by either sitting down in a sulk or by spreading her legs.
I didn't like Kwani, she came across as a spoiled brat.
We learn next to nothing about the other characters in the book apart from the fact they either hate Kwani or are madly in love with her at first sight.
She didn't grow as a character throughout the book, it ended with her just as spoiled and immature as she was at the start.
Kwani is of the Anasazi Indian tribe, who live in the hidden cities carved in mountainsides.
However, because Kwani has blue eyes (a rarity among her people), she is considered a witch and is cast out to other Native American tribes to find her own way in the world.
This novels plot is well done and engaging.
Kwani was vivid and realistic, but the development of male characters is broad and unlikable.
Despite that, the novel was overall engaging and researched.
It perfectly combines myth and fact, with a dash of adventure.
This book might not please certain readers, as there are many violent and sexually explicit scenes.
This book was okay.
It was not stellar...
but just okay.
The story was good - just slow.
The characters were...
not real enough - I did not feel like they were ever living breathing people - with personal histories and likes and dislikes...
They were insubstantial - but the book overall was okay.
It was a story..
I kept reminding myself that it was just a story - fiction...
The men in this story are men..
The injuries were a little unrealistic - you cannot get hurt so badly and then get up and walk 20 miles...
and time was a little weird every now and then...

I read the entire series. Just as good as Jean Auel's Children of earth series. Interesting to read about the tribes of the Americas and what could have happened to a family through the generations and through the world oh so long ago.
Wonderful Story, vivid CharactersThis was a wonderful story with many vivid and interesting characters. The kind of story that makes you keep deciding to read one more chapter when you should be doing something else
