https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/862017.The_Mystery_of_the_99_Steps
She is not as finicky as Poirot and nor is she as condescending as Sherlock. But just like her fellow detectives, she has a fine brain under her well-coiffed locks and will always hold a special place in my long-buried girlish heart. When I came across an ancient, dog-eared, much-doodled Nancy Drew mystery at my library, I couldn’t resist picking it up. In  The Mystery of the 99 Steps , Nancy Drew is working on a dual case with her father, eminent lawyer Carson Drew. A lady called Mrs. Josette B
When I came across an ancient, dog-eared, much-doodled Nancy Drew mystery at my library, I couldn’t resist picking it up.
, Nancy Drew is working on a dual case with her father, eminent lawyer Carson Drew.
Somehow, the two cases seem to be interlinked and Nancy Drew has her work cut out.Will our young sleuth save the day and also manage to enjoy the many beauties of Paris (where most of the plot is located) is what this tale is all about.---I enjoyed the book.
Sure, it’s predictable at places and there are too many quick escapes from tight spots to be realistic.
Yet another great addition to the Nancy Drew mystery book series.
When I was about 10 or 11, my mother signed me up for a book of the month club. Every month, I received two Nancy Drew or two Hardy Boys books. Every month, they were both read in a week and I was asking when the next book would be there!I thank my mother for recognizing and encouraging my love of reading.
When that way came to light, I just didn't feel like it was plausible.
I'm thinking Italian Job shenanigans.
When expressing my feelings to my 9yo niece however she explained to me that she felt it all came down to greed though, because, "if you have one chocolate chip cookie, you instantly want two because one is not enough." So that's how she came to terms with the story's weak point.
Maybe if I had the naivety of my niece I came come to terms with it as well.
Even if I mostly laugh at the ridiculousness/implausibility of it now, I still love spending an afternoon with the Drew girl.This one finds Nancy, Mr. Drew, Bess, and George in France and it was especially hilarious to read the occasional sentence or two squeezed in to describe their museum & cultural heritage stops. Like, two sentences for the Louvre, where there were no crowds impeding their view of the Mona Lisa. But mostly they are too busy solving two ridiculous mysteries to be distracted for long by such frivolities as museums and beautiful scenery.
Like usual, this series delivers fun and excitement.
I read this book for a challenge I am part of.
So fun.
This book was published when I was 16 years old so it qualifies for #11 on that challenge.Here's what I liked.
I would never have read a Nancy Drew book now.
And I did and it was so fun to look at it from a way way way adult age.
I like YA books now but there is a huge difference in the writing and plots -- at least with the ones I have read.
So that was intersting to see how Nancy stacked up with the 2000's books.
Carolyn Keene wrote the famous Nancy Drew series and the Dana Girls Mystery.
The Nancy Drew books were written approximately in the 1950’s.
However they are still continued to this day by numerous ghost authors who still use the pen name Carolyn Keene.
Nancy Drew must search for a staircase with 99 steps captured in a vivid dream a friend has had her whole life.
The mystery leading to France, while leaving the US, she encounters a mystery man named Monsieur Neuf warning her of her travels.
After reading this book I found that it was pretty interesting and vivid, thought I would recommend it for younger ages.
How did I miss this series when I was growing up. This is the first of the Nancy Drew books I have ever read and I think I would enjoy more. I like how the girls fit sightseeing and proper behavior as far as being good guests and eating at reasonable times and such into their sleuthing endeavors. I also enjoyed the use of French, famous locales, and persistent action and intrigue to move the story along. I really wish I had found this series in middle school. Highly recommend for young readers and adults.
This book was very bizarre... I'm still not entirely sure what the mystery was. Something about France, offensive racial slurs, another car malfunction, and of course... 99 steps. Hopefully the next installment will be more like the rest of the series. This one was unfortunate.
my niece is very much into Nancy drew. this particular book is great for the introductory walk through of Paris. it creates a simple tour for kids without over doing it, while giving a brief description of some historical moments.
This was one of the better mysteries. Although it seems like it all falls in place easily for her, I remember this one from a long time ago.
My all time favourite Nancy Drew.
The book was quite good. A satisfaction to my girlish drama heart though there were unbelievable escapes which was hard to digest but then again, it was interesting enough to not put it down.
It's a good book.
Out of the three big titles I've been reading (Hardy Boys, Nancy Drew, and Tom Swift Jr), Nancy Drew has these types down to a science, and this book really highlights the weaknesses of writing with them.We'll start with George.
Bess is described as 'plump' in every single Nancy Drew book I've read, and is in a constant state of panic and worry.
Perhaps she was inserted as a cautionary tale: girls, do not turn plump, for you will certainly be a food-obsessed coward who gets in the way of mystery-solving.And then there's Nancy.
Nancy Drew, the perfect girl.
I loved the Nancy Drew books as a kid.
Neuf, and masked men ring your doorbell to hand you threatening letters, oh and fathers are always okay with their daughters running after dangerous criminals in the middle of the night as long as they ask permission first...
how did I just believe this stuff as a kid?!Okay, maybe I am viewing this with jaded eyes of a twenty-two year-old.
I'll go back to the beginning and try at least the first couple out to see if my childhood love of these books was misplaced.
The Mystery of the 99 Steps is about Nancy Drew, Carson Drew (her father), and George (or Georgia) and Bess (best friends).
Nancy hears about a dream from a woman who lives in River Heights and goes to France with her best friends.
While Nancy is searching for 99 steps from her friends dream she notices that one of the people she sees at a party is actually a man in disguise.
Nancy searches for clues to the 99 steps and the man in her question her friends search with her.
In the end Nancy finds the 99 stairs that lead down to the man in question.
The Mystery of the 99 Steps  is a children's story by Carolyn Keene (pseudonym) and the 43rd book in the  Nancy Drew  series. Despite warnings from a stranger, eighteen-year-old Nancy Drew and her friends set out for France to search for a flight of 99 steps that may help solve the mystery of a friend's strange dream and a possible case of blackmail. I’ve always been a voracious reader. So, as a child, one of my favorite things about summer was the frequent trips to our local library, which was
Despite warnings from a stranger, eighteen-year-old Nancy Drew and her friends set out for France to search for a flight of 99 steps that may help solve the mystery of a friend's strange dream and a possible case of blackmail.
Even though I haven’t re-read any of these books since I was a child, I still think that Nancy is a great character—her courage, confidence and fierce independence, makes her an iconic source of inspiration for young girls everywhere.
A must-read children's book, 
is another wonderful Nancy Drew mystery.
In this case Nancy, George and Bess go to France to work with Mr. Drew who is trying to convince a financier to stop selling all his assets.A woman Nancy knows has nightmares of falling down a long flight of stairs.
As happens every so often, someone tries to stop Nancy from going to France by sending her a message.
Even once in France someone tries to stop her and seems quite willing to kill her to accomplish that.There's some interesting background information on both France and alchemy in the story.
I didn't enjoy this one as much as the other books I have read and the main reason for it would be tag-along helpers known as George and Bess.
As usual, Father and daughter work flawlessly together, the only thing keeping this book from being a 5 star in my book, is the before mentioned George and Bess, who actually whine off and on about different things, like waiting, walking, its annoying and I hope not to read any more books with them in it, but I am sure I'm out of luck in that department.
Nancy et ses amies vont a la France!
Please help me, Nancy.Anyway, Carson is helping a totally different client with an actual case in Paris at the same time, but apparently it has to do with this woman's dream.
And there are twins, one in the US and one in France that are involved.
Anyway, the whole thing involves a fake alchemist/swindler and some BS connection between this woman's dreams and Carson's case.
It's like they confer with the ghostwriter, or something.George loses consciousness when choked by an unknown cane-wielding assailant.
Nancy loses consciousness with a sucker punch but only instantly as she falls into freezing water and revives.
I read this book with 7th grade student, and she loved it!
Nancy Drew and her friends, Bess and George, find themselves on another mystery case, this time taking them to France.
Nancy and her father both have mysteries to solve, but could their cases be connected?
This particular Nancy Drew mystery might be considered more challenging because of the vocabulary and the general subject matter (ancient alchemy).
If I could read this book again, I would definitely make plans in advance for more vocabulary activities and vocabulary journaling.
Carolyn Keene is a fabulos writer she can really get you hooked in to her wounderous novel series Nancy Drew I have read many of her eye popping storys.She can write those special books you just can't put down.
The book is about the keen young adult Nancy Drew in a misson to solve the storys riddles she has to help a poor gentelman who was tricked in to giving money to a mad man.
I liked this book cause I could not put the book down.
I really like when Nancy is in trouble and nearly gets caught.there is a lot of tense action.
3.5 stars This isn't my personal favorite of the Nancy Drew series, but it's a perfectly competent addition to the series, and still holds up as a light page-turner of a mystery.
The characters are still in good form, and though the mystery plotline isn't always wholly believable, I still enjoyed the experience.
The Mystery of the 99 Steps is an engaging and intelligent mystery story with some nice creativity to its storyline, and though there is still a certain degree of predictability(seriously, how many times has Nancy's car been sabotaged by now?) and the character development could have been better, it's still fun to read, whether for nostalgic value or simply to take a brief break from "heavier" reading.
I loved that it was set in France, and remember that it was a bit of a surprise as I wasn't expecting that, and since I'm lover of all (if not most) things French that didn't hurt one bit.The story was quite delightful but a bit hard to keep up with, it kind of felt like a wild goose chase sometimes with Nancy flitting from one place to another and there were parts I had to re-read just to remember what she was doing.
It was also a bit fantastical with elements (pun intended) of alchemy involved.
The Mystery of the 99 Steps by Carolyn Keene is about girl on a search for the flight of 99 steps to solve her friend’s dream, which takes her to France.
On the other hand, before she leaves, a strange person named Monsieur Neuf tells the girl not to do the mission.
I chose this book because when i first saw the cover of the book, I thought that it is a book filled with adventure just because of the cover and the title.
I would definitely recommend this book to readers who love mysterious and adventure books.

I remember the first time I read Nancy Drew. It blew my mind that there were girls presented with a brain. Most of the stuff I'd read up to that time, was that girls were sugar and spice - fluffy. No brains. To also learn about George who is a tomboy was a nice validation. Carolyn Keene wrote just for me! That is how I felt. When I did more research, I was shocked to find out, Ms. Keene was actually a man ... writing under Frank Dixon. I also loved the Hardy Boys. No wonder I loved these series.
I liked this book because it has a tone of french words in this book.
What I liked most about the book is that if you like to read but don't have as much time then this book is short and is such an awsome book.
so if you have NEVER read a Nancy Drew then here is a great chance to read one because this one is so great.
Also this book made me feel like I was in the story and I was getting to be in france.
So if you like feeling like your in the story then so read this awsome book!
