https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76611.A_Natural_History_of_the_Senses
(c)Q:Мы, кажется, неспособны жить в природе без того, чтобы заимствовать ее запахи и носить их с собой как талисманы, «присваивая» себе свирепость, магнетизм или энергию, которые свойственны их естественным обладателям.
Все тени, которые можно увидеть ночью, создаются лунным светом или искусственным освещением, но ночь сама по себе – тень.
Существует много других способов определять стороны света, ведь скитания – одно из любимых занятий людей (но лишь в том случае, если они уверены, что смогут благополучно вернуться домой).
(c)Q:Сейчас я не могу увидеть свет других планет, но знаю, что все они находятся на своих местах, равно как и астероиды, кометы, дальние галактики, нейтронные звезды, черные дыры и другие чудеса глубокого космоса.
I read it like a novel.Since then I've lost two copies to 'borrowers' and given away five.
Whenever I feel that I have nothing to say, I take this book from the shelf, read a few paragraphs about something, anything, and am immediately reminded that my ability to experience is a series of miracles.
It may not inspire me immediately, but within a few hours I'll have seen or smelt, touched or heard or tasted something that I want to write about - and Ackerman will have worked her magic on me again.
This book was really hard to get through.
The only reason I even finished it is that she did include a few really interesting facts about the senses.
She writes in this really flowery style with way too many metaphors and adjectives that don't even make sense!
Next, she goes on and on about how intensely she senses things.
And to end it all, she talks about how some great writers sensed things more intensely or differently that most people.
And she has the audacity to include herself in the group of great writers!
Do not read this book.
Ranging from the complexities of the nervous system underlying our skin cells to how the olfactory nerves that contribute to smell also affect taste, Ackerman proves the extensive nature of her research while still writing in clear, readable prose.
While her thorough prose and long paragraphs may come across as off-putting at times, her control as a writer and as a researcher make A Natural History of the Senses well worth the read.
The more I read of this book, the more I wanted it to be over.
It was just exhausting hearing about all the wonderful sensory experiences she's had.
And just when she would make an interesting comment that I'd love to hear more about, she'd jump to another off-the-wall topic.
I really don't want to read anything else by her of such great length.
There were many excerpts from other authors dealing with the sensory world, like from Nabokov's Speak, Memory that just made me wish I'd chosen that book instead, as they do it much better than her...
Check.Can be instantly transported to a different time or place by a smell alone.
Check.Has been known to savor food, slowly, one bite at a time (or to indulge in a stolen bite of a decadent chocolate brownie at 2 a.m., letting the darkness intensify the flavor).
Check.Possesses a nearly incontrollable urge to touch-- smooth metal, jagged rock, velvety leaf or grass, cool marble.
Check.Will often be moved to tears, or conversely, thrown into joyous ecstasy at the mere sounds of notes, phrases, and music.
Check.Thank you, Ms. Ackerman, for defining what had me thinking I was always a bit odd.
I was given this book as a high school graduation present from two retired high school teachers and it proved to be one of my all time favorites. It should be required reading for any human being. You will learn fascinating things like that we can identify only 10,000 different tastes and anything else you've ever wanted to know about your senses. It's fascinating and mind blowing.
A marvellous and unique insight into the sensual world, this is at the same time beautifully-written and immensely evocative. We take our senses so much for granted - and in literature, we often use them in such a limited, unimaginative capacity. This book serves as a reminder that each of our senses has its own very personal narrative; that memories and emotions are linked to specific physical triggers; and that by exploring these, we can become so much more aware of ourselves and of our surroundings, and experience more fully the amazing spectrum of what our senses offer us.
Initially this was a wonderful book and then I lost interest in it. It's charm disappeared into nothing...It became very repetitive.
The author was a finalist for the Pulitzer Prize for Nonfiction, but here she can't accurately quote a popular film.
She quotes the protagonist in Lawrence of Arabia as saying, "The trick is not to mind," in that scene where he talks about pain as he puts out a burning match with his fingers.
In another chapter, the author talks about the houris in Islamic paradise and how they're made "entirely of sandalwood." I've read quite a bit on Islam and never heard this, so I researched and found that the houris are indeed made up of different wonderful scents.
This book was my favorite research source when I was writing The School of Essential Ingredients. Diane Ackerman manages to make science poetic, and her metaphors can be astonishing. Such lush, playful descriptions -- whenever I needed to get back in the writing mood, I would read bits of it and feel my senses waking up.
Occasionally a book comes along that becomes a personal standard by which everything comparable is judged. Such is Ackerman's "Natural History of the Senses" for me. Every little natural thing becomes an object of interest with a story to tell. I have often wanted to sit with my feet up, at dusk, in a screened in porch, with Diane Ackerman by my side. She would, I am sure, sit quietly and observe, but when she did say something it would be extremely fascinating.
I read this while in treatment, mostly at 3:15 AM, which was when I had to wake up to get weighed and get my blood pressure and heart rate checked, which was always atrocious, so then I had to sit and drink a Gatorade while the nurses watched to make sure I didn’t pour it into the flower pots like some girls did.
I will have to test that out when I’m a mother.This book gave me a lot of really inspirational quotes to write down as well.
In “A Natural History of the Senses” she turned inward, exploring we humans and the way we experience our world.“We tend to see distant past through a reverse telescope that compresses it: a short time as hunter-gathers, a long time as “civilized” people.
But civilization is a recent stage of human life, and, for all we know, it may not be any great achievement.
We may sing in choirs and park our rages behind a desk, but we patrol the world with many of a hunter-gather’s drives, motives, and skills,” writes Ackerman.“Consciousness, the great poem of matter, seems so unlikely, so impossible, and yet here we are with our loneliness and our giant dreams.”It really hasn’t been that long since we were sleeping in caves in family groups.
She uses beautiful, evocative prose to consummate what is clearly a long-standing love affair with the five senses.
Although this book is well-reasoned and researched, including much fascinating information about how the senses operate, this is not really a rigorously scientific book.
One moment we might be reading about the latest (at the time of publication) scientific findings about our sense of smell; on the next page we may encounter profiles of people who work as professional smellers for the perfume industry; from there we might move to Ackerman's own garden or a memory of time spent in a eucalyptus grove.
A wonderful little book that make me happy to be alive... so I can watch sunflowers against the black sky of a coming storm, buy Diorissimo because of many childhood bouquets of Lily of the Valley, stroke the shaggy, shiny fur of a sleepy cat, listen to Turandot and feel as if I'm floating, dive down in a deep clear spring, remember what it felt like to hold our strong, happy toddler after his evening bath, watching flowers and peaches begin to glow just as the late afternoon light hits them...
Interesantísimo libro que analiza sucesivamente la importancia y singularidad de cada uno de los sentidos a través de los cuales percibimos la realidad. No todos los capítulos son de igual valía, me gustaron especialmente los dedicados al olfato y al gusto, y bastante menos el dedicado al oído, aunque de todos modos en cualquiera de ellos se rescatan observaciones sutiles y agudas. A veces se cae excesivamente en lo anecdótico, y allí aparece lo menos interesante, pero en suma es un libro original y muy ameno que se disfruta mucho en casi todo su desarrollo.
At once history, biology, and anthropology this book explores the 5 senses from a variety of perspectives. Ackerman writes with intense imagery that can be beautiful or brutal. Memorable indeed was a discussion of the cultural evolution of flavor, complete with a medieval recipe for cooking a LIVE goose. I loved her discussion of how smell is the sense most closely linked to memory (which explains why sometimes, washing my hands in public bathrooms, I get instantly transported back to kindergarten through the power of the scent of the soap.) It's a fascinating read.
This is a fascinating meander through the five senses. Ackerman's writing is so precise and lively, I picked up some fab new words from her, and was grossed out on the cannibalism specifics in the taste section. There isn't a lot of structure to pull you through this, but all of it is riveting and quirky. I think I see some seeds for "The Omnivore's Dilemma" in the taste section too.
A staple of the writer's reference shelf. As long as the human being exists in the body, the writer needs to consider the senses.
Some of the tethers stretch very thin on those tangents.The sub-sections I enjoyed most were the ones that featured actual historic and scientific details about that sense, its origins, how it developed differently among the different species.
Unfortunately, there is far more random anecdotal reminiscing by Ackerman about the various sensory experiences she's had throughout her life -- the exotic trips to Antarctica, scuba-diving in the Bahamas, a spa in Bermuda, meals in Amazonian Brazil, etc.
Also cloying were the several attempts at listing every aphorism or cliche related to a particular sensory experience.Some of the favorable reviews of this book mention that the readers enjoyed skipping around the sections, reading here and there, opening at random.
A lot of this book sounds like that, although usually it's not quite so blatantly cheesy.
This book was frustrating because there's so much interesting writing in it, but I was constantly derailed by Ackerman's sheer presence within her own writing.
On the other hand, there was a lot of interesting information--even if it often seemed only loosely related to the theme--which was sometimes awesome and sometimes not so much.
I also felt like a lot of scientific information was presented as simple fact when, from what I've gathered from other readings, it is nowhere near that clearcut.
I expected a decently written, informative book on the history of human senses, and instead got a strange mix of facts, myths and incredibly self-indulgent personal narrative that I couldn't bring myself to care for.I understand the book is 25 years old so some theories will be inevitably outdated, but Ackerman mixes scientific theories with bits of randomly picked interesting trivia that she clearly didn't bother to critically examine and some wide-spread folk beliefs that not even QI panellists would fall for.
Ugh. This book is like if you are making fun of Literary Literariness to your friend and you pretend to talk like Eustace Tilley but instead of being a hilarious four seconds between pals it is three hundred pages of taking-itself-deadly-serious fussy snooty tone-deaf malarkey. SHEESH.I was anticipating something informative & lyrical along the lines of Rats, but this was bonkers pretentious, thoroughly crippled by privilege, and horrifyingly self-indulgent to the point of bordering on satire.Not to mention the heavy peppering of little shitty misogynist one-offs. A real trashpile of a book.
I can tell the difference between open and closed windows by the sound, I can tell when somebody's been outdoors in cold weather by the smell, I can tell whether a telvision is turned on (even with the sound turned down and from another room); and because of these and other sensory peculiarities, I always wonder why people assume that there's nobody who has senses outside the 'normal' range.It reminds me of my sister-in-law describing walking into a store with another of my brothers.
This book is so well-researched and clearly defined, with just slight deviations (but somehow connected) to each of the chapters that I was just as blown away by the unfolding 'story' as with what she packed into 300-page scientific exploration.
All have a sensual/sexual, very ethereal slant that was the majority of why I connected with her subheadings within each chapter, saw the progression between ideas, connections in her scientific analysis with her referencing other works and studies, and her willingness to explore.
I think I need to own this.

Lavishly Written--Although somewhat haphazard in its structure, this nonfiction, quasi-scientific book by the poet Diane Ackerman dazzles you with sensuous extravaganza.
Her prose indulges your senses with imagery, metaphors, and colorful descriptions that render sense data into poetic gems.The only complaint I have is that she doesn't have any overarching theme or story.
Some accounts are more interesting than others and still some bore you with its randomness.When read as poetic expositions on the senses, the book transformed into a work of art worthy of emulation.
As a writer, I learned a lot from this book and glad about it.Good stuff.
a singularly saturated specimen of metaphoricall[iterat]ure, entirelessly enveloping, instructive in the art of loaded words.
Ugh finally done! What a waste of everyone's time
