https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3731272-neighbour-rosicky
A classic Cather tale of Rosicky, who had a heart as big as the prairie he called home. The patriarch of a struggling Bohemian family who earned the love and respect of everyone who knew him. Cather told a version of this story dozens of times, but each one is as fresh and endearing as the last.
3.5 stars.
"At the door he fell. When Mary came in, she found him lying there, and the moment she touched him she knew that he was gone"
This long short story became a part of my life in the early 1960s when Dr. Robert Thomas of Brigham Young University read it in its entirety to our literature class, which brought tears to my eyes several times. I was so touched by the sensitive writing of the author and of the life of this extraordinary man that I memorized parts of the story and have given them as readings at Thanksgiving and Christmas for over 45 years. It is my favorite of Willa Cather.
This is such a precious little novella.
I am usually quite easily distracted when listening to audiobooks but I drank all of the words of this novella like water.
It is basically a self-remembrance / life story of an elderly man living a jovial, tranquil lifestyle loving it...
and you see how he got to appreciate and enjoy this lifestyle.
A lot of people would think of it as a given, but not necessarily that the calm neighbour we have who enjoys the little things in life might not have lived such a life all his/her life.
Five star bc she is my favorite author and this is a sweet story. The patriarch sets an example for how he hopes his family will live. He's had it tough and he knows what's important and tries to share that with his boys. He isn't a worrier and knows how to enjoy life.
I thought Rosicky wouldn't die. I thought he escaped the death once so he could escape through the end.
*crying*
A sweet little story, reminding you of the importance of the people in your life and their happiness rather than worrying about "getting ahead." I truly enjoyed it.
Probably a 4.5 star read. Willa Cather is so good at making you fall immediately in love with her characters, her sweet, nostalgic descriptions and comfortable word choices. I always feel right at home reading Cather, like I've been invited to pull up a chair in a favorite relative's cozy kitchen. Though there were no overly dramatic plot twists or adventures, I loved the main character, his reflections of his youth, and his sweet, fatherly kinship with his daughter-in-law. Lovely little story.
Kary had me read this (a story he teaches) after we toured Ellis Island. This is based on a true story of an early immigrant. Kary loves it because it shows how some people are happy and feel rich with a simple non- glamourous life. It's a good story for what it is. I enjoyed reading it because of having just toured and learned more about the early immigrants; However, once was enough. (thus the 3 star rating)
I love this short story, it is about life, and family. It is about a man who is diagnosed with a heart problem and who, in his last moments with his family he reminisces about his life and about the life that he has left for his family. It is a story that really shows us what should be important in our lives, not money, fame, titles, but a good honest life, filled with love and hard work, no matter what life throws our way.
This is by far my favorite of Willa Cather's. I love how she so eliquently describes the shift from farm and country to factory/city and how it affect the human soul. Still leaves a longing in my heart just thinking about it!
Great short story by Cather and one of her most happiest that I have yet to read from her. The marriage depicted here is actually a breath of fresh air compared to the other marriages from he rather works.
It was very difficult at times because the dialog was in broken English, but the heart of the story was very good. The imagery was strong and the characters were visible.
Really great story. I still remember the loving kindness of Rosicky more than I remember the ending.
I read this in a collection of short stories by Willa Cather and this one was my favorite. You come to know and love this man Rosicky and have a great apreciation for his pioneer spirit.
Very interesting, I enjoyed reading the story and wished that it won't finish!
My favorite short story in all of literature. Being from the Great Plains and a farming family myself, this story speaks to me like no other story I've ever read.
Okay, I am now a major fan of Willa Cather. This is a truly beautiful story. I am in awe.
If you know, or have ever met someone like Rosicky, you're lucky. :) He's such a sweet, caring person.
This is Cather at her finest. Even in a short story, she manages to create the sense of time slowed and life experienced more fully.
One of our dear friend Mae's favorites and a favorite of mine and my husband's.
