https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/174834.The_Cost_of_Discipleship
And yet Evangelicals skip over these ideas and only talk about Bonhoeffer's concept of cheap and costly grace.
While that is a great meditation on the role of grace in our lives, there's so much more to this book.
Having a knowledge of Bonhoeffer's life, particularly his role in the conspiracy against Hitler, his context in Nazi Germany, and his disgust with the holocaust, is essential to fully understanding this work.
The editors do a great job of providing contextual footnotes to help the reader understand many of the concepts presented here and how they are being built on the foundation of his early academic theology.
His analysis of cheap grace, and its corrupting influence reminds us that there are times that we have to challenge the powers of this world, that there are times when to be a good Christian means we can't always be a good citizen.
It is through understanding costly grace, that we can embrace discipleship that will allow us to witness to this world in such a way that we are freed from the powers of this world.Bonhoeffer's words are just as important today, as they were in the dark days of the Nazis, and will always challenge us in our faith.
Listened to the audio version of this book and found it very compelling.
As a lifelong cultural Catholic and for the last twenty years (or so) actively striving-to-be-Christlike Catholic, I need books which help me to look at my faith from a fresh perspective.Bonhoeffer's eclectic approach to the Gospels reminds me very much of his German compatriot and one of my other favorite authors, Pope Benedict XVI.
Especially insightful in this text are Bonhoeffer's contrast between cheap and costly Grace; his exegesis on the encounters between Jesus and the Rich Young Man and others; and his challenges to our understanding of our own discipleship.Highly recommended, especially in the audio format!
I was reluctant to do anything else once I started listening.
Don't get me wrong, I liked a lot it but the message of this book is that the gospel is true, that it is urgent that it be proclaimed, and that all men need to repent and follow it.
To tell men that their cause is urgent and that the kingdom of God is at hand is the most charitable and merciful act we can perform, the most joyous news we can bring." Now maybe your PCUSA or United Methodist (or Episcopal Church or ELCA Lutheran) church is different from mine, but that's not the message I'm hearing every Sunday.
I had the same issue when I read Pope Benedict's book on the life of Christ.
But this is not from some pussified metrosexual pastor, wearing his tight button-down, throwing around terms like "imitatio christi." No, this is from a man who did it, who faithfully followed and bore witness to Christ until the end when he was hung naked with thin wire.
....I just read this quote from the camp doctor who witnessed his death: “I saw Pastor Bonhoeffer ...
kneeling on the floor praying fervently to God. I was most deeply moved by the way this lovable man prayed, so devout and so certain that God heard his prayer.
Whew! My brain is mush.It has been really helpful for me to read this book alongside my friend and mentor. We have gotten together over the past three weeks (and once more this Friday) to discuss what we've read and how our lives as disciples differ from Bonhoeffer's definition of a disciple. ***UPDATE 9/14/18: I came across this article which helped me better understand Bonhoeffer's theology. We need to be discerning readers. A Reliable Guide? https://banneroftruth.org/us/resource...
The call is both a gracious call, one we need but don't deserve, and a call to implicit, unqualified obedience in following Christ, as in the case of the rich young man.
From reading Metaxas' biography on Bonhoeffer, it may be the case that he didn't reconcile these but simply saw this as a tragic necessity for which he was prepared to accept judgment not only by men but God.Finally, one of the striking themes of this book is the idea that discipleship is inescapably lived out in the visible community of the church.

Having read Eric Mataxus's brilliant biography of Bonhoeffer...
go read the biography...
I had to read more of what Bonhoeffer wrote.
The book is divided into 5 sections:1) Grace and discipleship2) The Sermon on the Mount3) The messengers4) The Church of Jesus Christ and the life of discipleshipThe book is worth your time if you're interested in deepening in discipleship.
Section 1 was the most helpful in terms of laying out Bonhoeffer's central argument.
at least in the area of devotion and service.) This tension will eventually strike any Christian if s/he is thoughtful and lives long enough.The exposition of the Sermon on the Mount could be a book on its own.
I think this is a good read because the enemy of cheap grace is so rapid in our churches today.
Bonhoeffer lived in a time where cheap grace could not be afforded and so do we.
The book gives a clear understanding of grace thru discipleship.
Bonhoeffer goes on to say that this cheap grace is what we give ourselves instead of being given by God thru Jesus Christ crucified.
Discipleship is abiding in Christ and having all fixed on fixed on him.
Bonhoeffer gives clear understanding of discipleship and because of his understanding, he was able to stand against the Nazi regime.
As was alluded to in the biography, the book deals not primarily with the concept of discipleship in regards to discipling others, but primarily with the individual’s role and responsibilities as a disciple of Christ.
I copied down many excerpts from various chapters, but especially appreciated Bonhoeffer’s insights on the Body of Christ, and the Church as a Visible Community.
I love this statement that he makes about bearing fruit as a disciple: “Fruit is always the miraculous, the created; it is never the result of willing, but always a growth.
They who bear it know as little about it as the tree knows of its fruit.
This book is chock full of wisdom and deeply profound insights, but it took me almost two months to get through it simply because its readability is quite low.
Perhaps this is because of the translation, or because Mr Bonhoeffer wrote in a different era, but whatever the reason, it's a tough read.
Compounding the problem of poor readability is the injection of strong opinions about non-essential Christian beliefs.
Writers are entitled to their opinions like everyone else, and I'm entitled to disagree with them and give them a lower rating because of it.That said, this is a good book with many many pearls of wisdom in it, but for me it was a slog to get through it.
Furthermore, Bonhoeffer goes on to encourage the Christian person in the community of believers in chapters on "The Visible Community" and "The Saints," making statements like "Let [the Christian] remain in the world to engage in frontal assault on it, and let him live the life of his secular calling in order to show himself as a stranger in this world all the more.
I'm rating this a 5 mostly due to the personal significance I derived while reading, as well as for the enormous theological insight Bonhoeffer's book gave me, in particular about what the Beatitudes actually mean.
I find it so much more revealing that not only did Bonhoeffer preach self-sacrifice and complete obedience to Christ, he actually lived it to the point that he re-entered Nazi Germany and preached openly against Hitler's regime and was eventually martyred just before the end of WWII.A few of my favorite quotes:On 'cheap grace' (the grace we seek without seeking repentance): "In such a Church the world finds a cheap covering for its sins; no contrition is required, still less any real desire to be delivered from sin."On costly grace (the grace given by God, the result of which is following Christ): "Such grace is costly because it calls us to follow and it is grace because it calls us to follow Jesus Christ.
"When Christ calls a man, he bids him come and die."As a Christian this book was deeply challenging and moving to me.
This forum is too short a medium to convey everything unique and valuable about this work, so let me simply encourage anyone out there to read this work, especially those claiming the Christian faith.
Once more, I cannot encourage any reader, especially Christian readers looking for a deeper faith, to pick this up, work through the difficult passages (not difficult in reading, but difficult in accepting) and take what they can from it.
An excellent book for a believer to read to count the cost and one in which the readers must keep in mind that for the author who lived in Nazi Germany had to pay the ultimate cost in following Jesus rather than go with the “mainstream” Lutheranism that was supporting if not even being sympathetic to the Nazis.
Of the sections in the book, I enjoyed the most the exposition of the Sermon on the Mount as it was challenging as well as sanctifying.
He does a good job of showing how the law points us to our utter depravity and ultimately our need for Jesus as Savior.
This is not to say that The Cost of Discipleship does not offer a good read, rather it was unnecessarily repetitive in areas I thought Bonhoeffer had made his point already.Bonhoeffer also is rather liberal in his theology.
The only resurrection that Bonhoeffer actually believes in is the "resurrection" of the heart.The only reason I did no rate it 2 out of 5 is because if I did, I think I would be judging out of hostility toward it.
I would not, however, recommend this book to a new believer, or one who is unsure about his theological convictions.
This would be something good to read for someone who has a solid conviction of his own theological worldview.
Some passages were more difficult than others, but I found it to be time well spent to think through what Bonhoeffer had to say.
I disagree with some of Bonhoeffer's pacifist views.
S. Lewis's "Why I Am Not A Pacifist." I'm sick of war, but there are times when war is necessary.)The book deserves five stars for his expositions of cheap vs.
Bonhoeffer does a thorough and excellent job exploring a life lived out by the Spirit with works which are done unawares, yet saints still being purposeful in the pursuit of the Call.My soul feels well fed!
He was hung just before the prison camp was liberated by the Allies.I used to read this book once per year, especially the material about what Bonhoeffer calls "Cheap Grace." As a New Testament Professor, I also assigned it as part of a seminary course on Matthew's Gospel, so that my students would read beyond the academic requirements that term.Feedback was always positive.
I do not agree with everything Bonhoeffer writes here [or elsewhere], but I think that thinking Christians should encounter his view of "Costly Discipleship" versus "Cheap Grace."
What is the cost of discipleship?
What is cheap grace?
What is the Christian walk wherefrom we have stolen what is most holy and subsequently profaned?
Bonhoeffer tackles such tough issues that were prevalent in Lutheran Germany previous to National Socialist Germany and WWII in his 'Cost of Discipleship.' Hung in the gallows as a prisoner of the Nazis at the end of the Second World War, Bonhoeffer alone stands as a testament - this book is living proof.
"When Christ calls a man, He bids him come and die." If you haven't read this book, now is the time to.Brent McCulley (10/26/13)
One of the most personally challenging books I've read; this is not 'family-friendly', soft-hearted, mush-minded evangelicalism but a hard, robust Christianity that recognises the true 'cost': suffering and death in the hope of being raised to new life. I only wish he had drawn even a little from Wesley, rather than largely from Luther on the matter of sanctification (which didn't go nearly far enough, and remained somewhat in despair of sin).
Perhaps it is because it has taken me many months of reading just a few pages every Sunday to reach the end of this book, it has become very dear to me.
No, but there was room for plenty of dialogue between us as I followed his thinking and challenged my own.Ideas I will continue to ruminate on are: costly grace vs.
cheap grace, the interrelated nature of belief and obedience, the desirability that my good works will be visible to others but invisible to me, the coexistence of faith and good works.An immediate re-read would be welcome and may be imminent!
“If a father sends his child to bed, the boy knows at once what he has to do. But suppose he has picked up a smattering of pseudo-theology. In that case he would argue more or less like this: ‘Father tells me to go to bed, but he really means that I am tired, and he does not want me to be tired. I can overcome my tiredness just as well if I go out and play. Therefore though father tells me to go to bed, he really means: Go out and play.’”
Still, we need to be wary of this emphasis, because I firmly believe that the present Western world needs to know much more about the joy of Christian life than a reminder of our persistent sinfulness.
Furthermore, I think a stronger emphasis on the meaning of Christ's resurrection would balance out Bonhoeffer's treatment of death and sin.
However, Bonhoeffer's interpretation leaves us little to work with when it comes to the 99% of life in which God seems much more quiet and even at times silent.
What is the cost of being a disciple of Jesus Christ?
I few quotes from the book:Jesus asks nothing of us without giving us the strength to perform it.
p. 40"Ye are the salt." Jesus does not say: " You must be the salt." It is not for the disciples to decide whether they will be the salt of the earth, for they are so whether they like it or not, they have been made salt by the call they have recieved.
130The call of Jesus makes the disciple community not only the salt but also the light of the world: their activity is visible, as well as imperceptible.
Justification by grace alone is arrived at as the answer to a sum, not as the initial data in man's spiritual quest; here is a relevant quotation from the book:At the end of a life spent in the pursuit of knowledge Faust has to confess:"I now do see that we can nothing know."That is the answer to a sum, it is the outcome of a long experience.
The only man who has the right to say that he is justified by grace alone is the man who has left all to follow Christ.
And it is to justify our sinfulness; the one like this receoives no special gicfts other than the strength hat comes from our relationship with Jesus.Chatper 19: The way of the disciples is exceddinyl narrow, few can follow: all the commands of Christ point to a way utterly different from the way of the world.
I would say that he says that the recompense, even in an earthly sense, is more than worth it, but I don't think he ever goes there, because I think he wants us not to follow Jesus for our own personal gain, but to follow because we are called, and should obey.A very challenging book for me personally, and in truth, since I read it over such a large period of time, I don't feel like many of the points stuck with me (and part of that was probably purposeful, because what he said was so...
As a pastor and theologian, he is always a tyrannicide and martyr first, and I don't apologize for reading him accordingly.This does not limit the force of his writing.
I've now read Discipleship three times: once as a devotional, once in a course on Bonhoeffer's theology, and most recently, with anti-fascist applications in mind.
Christians cannot be activists unless we are first, second, and last of all disciples of Jesus-- which will make us pastors and theologians too, defined by God's people and grounded in God's Word.A few salient points from this reading:--The text never calls out its true (Nazi) targets by name, but its meaning was clear enough to its readers.
Bonhoeffer challenged my thinking in regards to radically pursuing Christ.
The second section of the book proved to be encouraging, though I am not sure that I quite agree how Bonhoeffer uses the text of the Beatitudes.
The final section, the Church, proved to be a bit more difficult to read.
This section seemed ethereal, because he uses language that is not concrete in describing the nature of the church.
I encourage reading The Cost of Discipleship because I believe that great portions of the book will challenge thinking and stimulate spiritual meditations.
