https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/50027.Homeland
Salvatore has really opened a can of worms here.That said, let's take a quick look at the book itself, regardless of its (probably unintentional) implications.I love the setting.
Besides, Zak, in the end, proves submissive to the matriarchal power of the Drow social structure.The character I find most believable is Vierna, one of Drizzt's sisters.
Again, I don't want to spoil it for anyone, but it pays to read Vierna carefully, to see where and why she has resisted Drow society in some ways and succumbed in others.
Other than the world itself I found the intrigues and constant backstabbing of the drow society fascinating.
In this book the vast majority of the characters are written in different shades of black with an exception of Drizzt and possibly his mentor Zak. I would not call them very well developed - again with the exception of Drizzt himself, but there were some interesting two-dimensional ones who actually serve their purpose in the story nicely.
I look forward to read the next book as this one while not ending in a cliffhanger still leaves things in fairly unsettled state and I am curious to see the further development.
I started this series long ago, but put it down as I wanted to save it for the right occasion.
A few weeks of occasionally playing D&D whilst vacationing at home this summer made me absolutely long for it.
Spending the remainder of the summer in the middle of the Norwegian mountains with very little I needed to get done, it seemed like the ideal time to go on some adventures with Drizzt.Homeland proved to be exactly what you'd expect from a tie-in novel written by a skilled author.
It is well-written and well-constructed, with long streaks of completely unnecessary and uninteresting scenes.Full review to come after I read some more Drizzt books.
Homeland was the first fantasy book I ever read, and I only read it because it was a Christmas gift and I was bored.
But that first copy of this book has now been read so many times, by me and everyone I ever thrust it on to read, that the spine is barely holding together and the cover is threatening to disintegrate.
For a dork who really likes fantasy novels, this story was just too engrossing for me to ever stop reading.
While I can't say it's a great cultural work or the kind of story everyone should read; it's my literary equivalent of comfort food.
In the Underdark, "the secret world beneath the bustling surface of the Forgotten Realms", morals are everything that we see as immoral, and smart means cunning, while dog-eats-dog is the way of everyday life.
In this dark and vicious world is born our hero, a drow named Drizzt Do'Urden, the third son of a matriarch who was very willing to sacrifice him to the goddess for taking down successfully a rival house and advancing in the overall hierarchy.
When reading Forgotten Realms I'm not looking for philosophy you know?This is my favorite trilogy of the Drizzt books (a quick aside I enjoy Salvatore's writing but some of his names are just terrible).
And although in this book they come across a little one dimensional (they get better) it's an interestingly different read.
One of my favorite things about the character of Drizzt (and why I'm disappointed in later books) is his inherent goodness.
In many ways reading this today ten years, or so, older I found his plight more interesting than young Drizzt's.So yes, I still loved it.
An interesting world, flat characters and cheesy dialogue.I was not expecting how dark it was.The drow are the survivors, and this is the Under-dark, the valley of death - the land of nameless nightmares.In Menzoberranzan anything goes as long as you aren't caught.
I also did enjoy getting to know Zak and Drizzt two of my favorite characters.Some of the dialogue was a bit cheesy, but I think the world building more than made up for that.I am definitely a fan.
Maybe it's that this book is intended for teenagers.
But when he's in Forgotten Realms mode Salvatore knows his audience (and kudos to him for that ...
This results in a world that presents very few surprises, where victories are assured from the very beginning, and the choice between good and evil couldn't be less interesting.Homeland was released in 1990, right at the tail edge of the Dungeons and Dragons boom.
But, due to the nature of the genre, Salvatore never had a chance.
And if you were thinking of exploring the rest of The Forgotten Realms, well, Salvatore's the best you've got.
Todo lo anterior, por supuesto, junto a una emocionante trama de intrigas y traiciones.Rob Salvatore, se supera aún más en sus descripciones y mientras se leen las escenas de acción, es imposible no imaginar a Drizzt luchando/bailando con sus cimitarras.
Punto adicional se lo lleva también por las descripciones de Menzoberranzan, su política, sus habitantes y su cultura matriarcal.Muy recomendable y yo ya tengo en la mira el segundo libro: El exilio.
A tad slow to start, the story soon launches to become one of the most epic fantasy adventures in the genre.There are a lot of positives to this series: Highly, and I mean HIGHLY memorable characters – I swear they’re practically a religion at this point, some of the most stylized and intricate sword-fighting scenes you’ll ever read, epic world-building, and a unique, mold-shattering storyline – I’ve never read such a fantastic tribute to the dark elf culture.As good as the characterization is, I find it somewhat lacking in one regard: While there are a plethora of beautiful women, there is a distinct lack of relatable feminine characters, as most of them express male personalities and tendencies.
Drizzt’s moral dilemma would have been interesting enough to carry the book, but Salvatore also gives us many other captivating characters in Drizzt’s family as well, from middle sister Vierna, who is not totally infected by the evil of her homeland but lacks the backbone to fight it, to mother Matron Malice and oldest sister Briza, who are all too eager to embrace the malevolence and cruelty that permeates Menzoberranzen.The only problem I had with this book was, since it was my first time reading about Drizzt (or any book from the Forgotten Realms universe), I did have a little trouble keeping up with everything at first.
I didn't really know what to expect from this book going in, but I was pleasantly surprised. I really loved learning about the world and the culture of the drow elves. Drizzt is awesome, and I thought the characters were all pretty interesting. The writing style took me a while to get used to. I think sometimes it made me feel disconnected from the novel, but I'm thinking I'll just like the books more and more as I read them and I won't have those disconnection problems going forward.
And now I'll be the one doing the gushing because - and I just have to say it - this book is amazing!Homeland is a dark cruel place where kindness and compassion are weak and disgracefull traits that need to be eradicated.
And I highly recommend it.Both young Drizzt and his fierce and loyal four-footed companion have found a place in my heart and I'll make sure I'll follow their adventures to the end.
While those around him give themselves over to pleasing the Spider Queen, Drizzt finds it exceedingly more difficult to function in a world that goes against his inner morals.The review:There were several things about this novel that made it unique from a lot of other fantasy novels I have read.One of the most distinctive aspects of this novel is the role that women play in the drow world.
I have read about strong women in fantasy in the past, but this book takes the cake.
When I read some fantasy books I am frantically highlighting beautiful descriptions, epic battle scenes, etc.
Despite the fact that Drow females don’t produce many offspring comparative to their extra-long lifespans, Drizzt was conceived as a sacrifice to the horrible spider goddess Lloth and he is spared this fate when one of his brothers murders the other.
So Drizzt’s violet eyes and moral sense set him apart from his own society.We also learn how he became involved with his side-kick, Guenhwyvar the black panther and how he became the fighting machine that we are familiar with from previous books.I can see where in a gaming situation, OTT characters such as these would be fun to play.
I love this fantasy series of Drizzt! I'm slowly getting all of them and as I have been searching there are a lot of them. I'm glad one of my best friends who loves fantasy told me about this series. I don't have the good mind or words to write a big review. You can read what it's about and if you love these kinds of books then this is one for you! All I can say is Drizzt is a dark elf with a good heart!
Κάθε fan του fantasy που σέβεται τον εαυτό του θα πρέπει να γνωρίζει (τουλάχιστον) τον Salvatore (όχι μόνο τους αδερφούς Salvatore στο VD κορίτσια!) και ως αρχή να διαβάσει την πρώτη τριλογία με ήρωα τον Ντριτζ, το dark elf που ζει στη μητριαρχική κοινωνία, στα έγκατα της γης και ονειρεύεται έναν καλύτερο και δικαιότερο κόσμο. Κοινωνικά μηνύματα και εσωτερικές αναζητήσεις ταυτόχρονα με μάχες και συνωμοσίες πολιτικής, aka pure fantasy!!!Στα ελληνικά από τις εκδόσεις anubis, η έκδοση είναι pocket size (και σε μένα έφυγε όλη η πρώτη τριλογία κατά τα φοιτητικά μου χρόνια στις μετακινήσεις μου μέσα στο λεωφορείο)
4.5 stars. I have not read a lot of "Forgotten Realms" novels and did not go into this book with overly high expectations. Well, those expectations were greatly exceeded and I found myself loving it. The character of Drizzt is fascinating and the politcal/social/environmental structure of the drow, or dark elves, was very well thought out and incredibly interesting. I will certainly read the remaining books in this series. Highly recommended.
Masterful storytelling and perfect world-building. Homeland by R.A. Salvatore is one of the best fantasies ever written and only grows finer with age.
This book in the Forgotten Realms Saga chronicles the early years of the Drizzt Do'Urden, a Dark Elf. Raised in the underground city of Menzoberranzan a young Drizzt learns the skills of swordsmanship while trying not to fall to the dark beliefs of the cruel and evil Spider Goddess religion which dominates all aspects of the Drow society.
The underground setting of Menzoberranzan was unique and excellent while the politics, intrigue, and dark nature of life in Drow Society was fun and fascinating in equal measure.I went into this read with low expectations and was pleasantly surprised by how much I enjoyed it.
4.5 stars. Thoroughly enjoyed this one.
http://www.rantingdragon.com/review-o...While not the first book published in the Forgotten Realms by American author R.A. Salvatore, Homeland takes place first chronologically, and it reveals much of the history of one of the most famous characters of the Forgotten Realms, the Dark Elf Drizzt Do’Urden.
Goblins are evil, says so in the book, it’s okay for my good character to kill goblins.
They are just -begging- for some fight choreographer to go to town on them.Why should you read this book?Drizzt Do’Urden is one of the most famous characters in fantasy.
I really enjoyed this. Set in a world where evil is expected, how does one with feelings cope? It's all backwards and upsidedown but the rules by which society runs are surprisingly easy to figure and follow. I can understand why so many people love Drizzt so much, he is a character of much gravitas and despite his brilliance in combat, he has a good heart. I feel certain that this first novel has set up this world nicely for some exciting future adventures. I'm looking forward to reading on in the series.
He'll have to find a way to not only survive whatever his enemies, friends and even family throw at him, but also to hide his true nature and preserve his sanity while seeking a place to belong to.Should you read Homeland?If you've tried Dungeons and Dragons or Forgotten Realms type of novels before and you weren't particularly fond of the excessive amount of characters, races, monsters, boring 1-dimensional villains, the straight-forward plot and so on, then not to worry - I wasn't a huge fan of those either.
I have heard the name of Drizzt mentioned many times in conversations regarding awesome characters, but somehow managed to avoid reading this book until now.
I'm not sure if I should be sad that I have only discovered this series now, or happy that I have so many wonderful books to look forward to.
The story really took off from there and kept me in it up to the ending which I thought could have been a bit more climatic, but is more of a setup/intro for the next book in the series.
Loved Drizzt and Guenhwyvar and looking forward to the next book in this series.
Fantasy is not typically a genre I pick up on my own, but my husband wants me to get into gaming (RPG) with him and his friend suggested I read The Legend of Drizzt series.
I was a little slower actually getting interested in the story line.
I do have to admit that I had to look up the weapon Drizzt was using because I had no idea what a scimitar was which made it a little difficult to imagine what was going on.
I think this was a very good book for the first of a series, and I look forward to seeing where the story goes.
The legend of Drizzt Do'Urden begins here as you learn of his upbringing and the sadistic immorality of the Drow culture. He somehow develops a conscience while surrounded by an ambitious, ruthless mother and equally evil sisters in this matriarchal society.
He's the only person with a morality we would recognize in a world of people who see no problem with killing, who worship a spider god, and who only understand violence as a way of life.
Also, the narrator doesn't try to show us the surface world as it would be experienced by someone who had spent his whole life underground, instead just talks about squirrels, birds, and trees as though Drizzt would know what these things are.
Enjoyed it to the max. My fav parts are: The monotones, the encounters with Zak, and the world building!
This is a high 4. How much I struggled in the beginning keeping track of the characters is the only reason I'm not giving this a five. I'm really interested in where book 2 heads
