https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/845074.Venus_Plus_X
Sturgeon spends a fair amount of time discussing gender issues that are today somewhat passé.It’s still a good sci-fi book, well written and entertaining; and his overall message is still relevant and inspiring.
The premise is that a Homo sapiens man has been abducted from his time and place and brought to live in a Lodem society.
Interestingly, Sturgeon divides his narrative into two seemingly unconnected plots, one in the Lodem culture and another in the Homo sapiens world.Reminiscent of his brilliant work More Than Human, I suspect a common theme in Sturgeon’s work is evolutionary man.
4.5Mi cuarto libro de Sturgeon, y ¡qué sorpresa! Sin lugar a dudas, mi favorito de él. Conmovedor, visionario, emocionante y esperanzador. Venus más X explora la moralidad, el machismo, el feminismo, la sexualidad y principalmente lo más duro y vergonzoso que reside en nuestra naturaleza como seres humanos, todo aquello sin dejar de lado, agonizantemente, la posibilidad de redención. Me dejó sin palabras.(No se dejen llevar por la sinopsis, es mucho más que eso).
Sex is one, religion is the other; and in pre-Christian times, it was usual to express them together.
The central premise (a very unlikely one, it must be said) is that someone with a lot of wealth and influence creates a model society (Ledom, get it?) in secret.
Instead there is a lot of philosophising and some fair-to-interesting exposition about Ledom history, culture, education etc.
But, as other reviewers have noticed, if you want an actual novel, drama only kicks in towards the end when some cracks in the seemingly flawless system start to show.
It sits uncomfortably between two worlds and ends in ambiguity.
3.5/5 ali zbog Sturgeonovog stila pisanja, prevalit ću na 4.Interesantna knjiga koja ima svojih dobrih i loših strana. Vječna tema razlika spolova i neumorne čovjekove prirode da dominira nad svim. Postoji glavna priča o junaku u utopijskom Ledomu i sekundarna koja više služi kao ilustracija određenih konflikta i problema, poput svojevrsne nadopune osnovne priče koja mi je jasna ali u nekim dijelovima i nepotrebna.Radnja je spora i pretežno se vrti oko ideja i koncepta do samog kraja, kad dolazi do interesantnih obrata i rješavanja osnovnih pitanja sa samog početka priče.
Venus Plus X is a 1960 SciFi novel by one of the fathers of modern Science Fiction. It introduced feminism and gender fluidity and equality to the fans of SF. Recommended.
If nothing else, it serves to remind us that the change has been going on for quite some time.Venus Plus X takes an everyman observer to a world called Ledom, where gender dichotomy has been made obsolete.
. We worship the child because it is inconceivable that we would ever obey one.”As the everyman observer sees it, all of this functions quite smoothly.
In the end, even the everyman observer is revealed as a construct.
This makes Venus Plus X an explicitly political novel.”We are not a Utopia.
Sturgeon is a skilled writer and he has lots of interesting ideas. The problem with this book is its lack of plot. Nothing really happens until the last 40 pages or so. We just get a description of Ledom and some musings on gender issues. It would have been better if he actually put together a story around them.
Lo leí antes del 92, mis primeros libros apuntados con fecha. Y le cayó 9/10, la mejor nota de los 6 que leí en su día de Sturgeon. A reseñar tb Violación cósmica y Más que humano. Ambos de notable, cuatro estrellas un poco justas.Sin embargo los afamados Caviar, Las estrellas son la Estigia o Las invasiones jubilosas no me gustaron apenas (5/10).Jo, ya casi ni me acordaba de este autor. Gracias por recordármelo....
This would have been shortly after I was born and consequently I didn’t get round to reading it until some twenty years later, by which time the world had changed.Its message remains an important one, and I feel it is a classic that will be rediscovered by future generations, but the shock value of its original release has been somewhat diluted.Charlie Johns is a young American of the late Nineteen Fifties, in love with his beloved Laura and with all his life ahead of him.Suddenly Charlie is transported through time and space to the far future and the society of Ledom.
I honestly don’t know how I feel about Sturgeon’s novel.
I’ve been trying to think of it in context.
Science fiction novels were often still boring boys adventure fantasies.
LeGuin’s masterpiece "The Left Hand of Darkness" was still a few years away.
So I applaud Sturgeon for his adventurous storytelling relative to the time.
I also found the novel to be extremely readable, and it only took me a couple of sittings to read it from cover to cover.
On the other hand, I found something lacking in the book, and I haven’t been able to put my finger on it.
Guy’s a serious gender-abolitionist. I honestly didn’t find this outdated. It is a bit of a screed, though. There was an elegant running cross-commentary between the future one-gender humans and daily life at time of writing in Begonia Drive. Crazily, as the book progressed I became more interested in Begonia Drive.
Me habría encantado comprender a dónde quería ir Sturgeon con todas las ideas que expuso en el libro.No sé si es una novela o más bien un ensayo sobre la identidad de géneros y las posibles causas del instinto autodestructivo de la humanidad. Es, a mi parecer, un libro profundamente feminista, escrito por un hombre, en 1960, y como tal, tiene mi plena admiración.
It suggests the radical notion that men and women have many more similarities than differences -- and it just kind of says this, like, you know, it's probably right, right?
(The Feminine Mystique didn't come out until 1963, I just looked it up!) But also "fuck yeah!" But then at the end (view spoiler)[both of our protagonists decide that's probably not right after all.
I think people STILL haven't come to terms with the basic premise of the book.
But I like the cut of this guy's jib.Also it cracks me up that the blurb from the front is from Vonnegut, because I can't ever see "Theodore Sturgeon" and not think "Kilgore Trout."
Utopian science fiction in which a confused protagonist comes to consciousness in an enigmatic futuristic isolated community, and mysteriously already knows their quirky language.
The most significant quality differentiating the rhapsodic members of this creepy bubble of love and happiness is that they all possess both male and female genitalia, and they have outgrown or avoided any sort of gender-based expectations.Written in 1960, the fantasy is probably more interesting and relevant today than it was at the time of its writing.
It goes from being too confusing to being too pedantic.
Originally posted at FanLit.Charlie Johns has woken up in a strange place called Ledom (that’s “model” spelled backwards) in what appears to be a future where human beings have evolved.
As he lives among these people who have no differentiated gender roles, he considers where he came from and realizes how the little biological detail of sex has had such a powerful affect on human history, society and culture.If one purpose of science fiction is to speculate about possible futures by anticipating how advances in technology and culture might affect ...
Badly dated lecture disguised as a novel about possible sexual evolution.
Charlie Johns is caught by a time machine and brought to the world of the Ledom, hermaphroditic beings living in a world of bliss.
They escort him around their world, showing him its various aspects, explaining that later they will "want his opinion." The better parts take place in or around the 1960 publication date of the novel, where Sturgeon has fun showing us the lives of husbands and wives who just might be headed in the direction of the Ledom.
Storyline: 1/5Characters: 2/5Writing Style: 3/5World: 4/5--Below information added approximately a year after original reading--Undoubtedly thought-provoking and pushing boundaries in 1960, it still retains its power to surprise and shock readers today. The book is perhaps too pointed as there's really little to enjoy or remember other than the author's none-too-subtle message.
3.5 is more like it, but will go with 4 on this scale :DI found the author's take on human sexuality and androgyny quite interesting. It touches on similar topics as Ursula Le Guin's Left Hand of Darkness, so for anyone that liked that book, this is also recommended.
A strange sf novel between utopia and sad future of humankind
About 3.5 stars.It was interesting, a pretty short read, and engaging.
brilliant book in it's day. probably a bit dated now.
The alternation with present-ish day characters to illustrate the issues at hand was actually kind of artful.
The ending really lagged for me though, the necessity of digging up the fatal flaw being pretty weak, as it wasn't a very impressive or satisfying secret, and didn't seem to quite work with the way it was set up.
The flood of explanation at the end was a bit rushed and out of place, and the way the characters ended up didn't really do it for me - not sure if that was supposed to be satisfying or not, or exactly what the message was.
Published in 1950; not aged well.
At this time the fact that "women had gotten the vote" was still noteworthy.
And homosexuality and androgyny and women wearing pants & going bowling were to be feared.
Sturgeon explores some ideas about it all, but he seems, from the perspective of 2017 USA, to be awfully naive and biased.
One bit of commentary is still unfortunately relevant - those who would censor still object more to sex than to violence.....And the thing is, there's no plot until the last ten pages.
All tell, no show.I did like: "Man should take himself seriously.
Shouldn't take himself seriously, how he feels and all.
The novel weaves two stories together: one about a "progressive" American family who seem to serve only as a foil, and the other about a man named Charlie Johns who is transported into the utopia of Ledom.
And then we get the real twist: (view spoiler)[Charlie didn't arrive in a time machine, after all...in fact, he didn't "arrive" in any meaningful sense; the Ledom picked up his memories after he was found barely alive in the wreckage of a crashed plane.
But Sturgeon has a way of making me think, and that always bumps up my rating.There's a lot here besides the much discussed gender identity stuff.
These glimpses into the sometimes subtle, sometimes glaring, assumptions about gender really got me thinking and comparing how different (or not so different) things are today.(view spoiler)[But in the end, Sturgeon starts to undermine his theme.
After all, the alien race has been pared down to one sex, making it look more like "sameness" rather than "equality." And certainly opposite of the non-binary gender identities we hear about all the time these days.
Unlike most of the reviewers I've read here I didn't like the story very much.
I think that "More Than Human" was one of the greatest classic SF novels ever written.
The novel doesn't even seem to be sure if Ledom's physical form and culture will result in a Utopia or even a better form of humanity.
I would have just considered it an interesting read of an idea not addressed very often 47 years ago if it had been shorter and better written.
As the plot moves on, the gadgets become trivial and the wizard of oz curtain is slowly pulled back.
For a book written in the sixties, the lens is hauntingly accurate, and this was a beautiful work.
While Sturgeon might fairly be ranked as a feminist, I feel he's taken a more humanist approach, and subtly scuttles the fragile masculinity and desperation which drives anti feminism and misogyny.
Heck of a ride- the finish is right up there with the grapes of wrath for being very conflicting.
It takes a bit of work to stay with this book in the beginning.
Very thought provoking and ahead of its time.
It is not a spoiler to say that this is about gender roles and identity.
It would have been shocking at the time.
Now I find it very thought provoking.
I think it did several things very well.
First, just taking on this topic was courageous at the time.
Second, it shows well the background concepts of the world at that time.
And, as if taking on gender roles isn't enough, Sturgeon takes on religion as well.
I think one of the most powerful scenes is of the Ledom religious ceremony.
Do gender and religion underly conflict?
The main theme of this book is simple, sex.
This includes gender and actual sexual acts.
The story itself wasn't that great and the first half is a pain to get through, but once you are done with the initial push it becomes a great essay on the relationship between evolution, gender roles, sex, and religion.
A great essay at that.
Any person who is a bigot against a certain race, religion, gender, etc should attempt to read this book and try to become at least a little educated.
