https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28588345-the-midnight-star
“Not invincible after all, little wolf?" I only wish this book was longer. After all the violence, emotions and drama of this series, this final installment was a good hundred pages too short for me (and it's not often I say that). True, it pretty much ended the way I expected, the only way it really could, but the journey there has been bloody, twisted, and a whole lot of fun.The end of the last book threw a dark little twist at us and I couldn't wait to find out more about Adelina's state of
True, it pretty much ended the way I expected, the only way it really could, but the journey there has been bloody, twisted, and a whole lot of fun.The end of the last book threw a dark little twist at us and I couldn't wait to find out more about Adelina's state of mind in The Midnight Star.
As this book opens, we see just how far gone she is.
Now a powerful queen, she rules with fear and pain.Adelina, herself, makes this story so gripping.
Shh, don't judge me.Parts of this book are creepy; other parts are sad, but without being overly-sentimental.
"Sometimes I can't tell if my madness is what's conjuring these images, twisting my confidence. So I try to ignore them, as always. What does it matter if I'm mad? I have a hundred ships. Twenty thousand soldiers. My Roses at my side. I am queen." I think the series peaked at The Rose Society. After that spine-chilling ending and months of waiting for The Midnight Star to show (I actually had to wait three weeks more because Book Depository fucked up), the end product seems rather underwhelming
But here, there's a lot of story that's left out.Magiano could have been developed more.
I suppose he grew closer to Adelina in the year's time between the events of The Rose Society and The Midnight Star, but it ain't canon unless it's on the page.
But dammit, if Six of Crows can develop three realistic, individual fandom-worthy pairings in two books, then The Young Elites can do it in three.The magic/religion elements were just weird.
My review of The Young ElitesMy review of The Rose Society["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
You cannot harden your heart to the future just because of your past. You cannot use cruelty against yourself to justify cruelty to others. Good News & Bad News: Marie Lu knows how to end her trilogies with a bang but also knows how to kill her readers. I feel as though I am not even alive anymore. I am writing this review after my death, my funeral was yesterday and I’m surprised how good the Wi-Fi is, considering I’m in a coffin. (Okay, this scenario is running away from me, let’s stop.)M
Good News & Bad News: Marie Lu knows how to end her trilogies with a bang but also knows how to kill her readers.
The cast of characters in this trilogy is pretty big and I don’t think Marie Lu used that aspect to its full potential.
There are characters from Young Elites group, like Michael, and Sergio from Adelina’s own Rose Society, who I barely know even though they are there in various/most scenes.
It was action-packed and feels-inducing but certain aspects I wanted explored were not explored.If you liked Legend, READ THIS TRILOGY.
That ending was so bittersweet. I think I loved it. The first half of the book was a little boring for me, and I had some issues with several things that happened, but all in all, I'm satisfied with this conclusion. It wasn't what I expected, that's for sure.And YES I shed a tear or two.
3.75, but I'm rounding it down to three all the same because Marie Lu can do so much better, and this book left such a bad taste in my mouth, I'll need a Nutella-based diet for the rest of my life."These are only rumors, of course, and make little more than a story to tell around the fire.
The only things worth mentioning that actually take place and happen are all condensed in the last page, and they don't even feel squeezed - but probably we should have gleaned that, for the author, very little was left to said.
I mean at the end of the book Adelina hopes that Teren will be happy in the underworld and Teren helped her to survive long enough to restore the balance of their world so I guess they both got what they wanted even though it had a slightly different outcome than they imagined…Raffaele & Enzo:”He can sense the agony hovering over the prince, and the feeling scalds his own heart as surely as if he were wounded himself.”Okay, it’s official!
I’m so proud of Adelina for choosing to give her life for Violetta, to give it to her willingly because she loves her sister and wants her to live the life she never had!
Meanwhile Raffaele & Co realize that the Underworld is seeping into the living world and that they need Adelina's help in order to...
This isn't necessarily a spoiler but some people might want to learn it as the story initially unfolds, so I'll hide it.
there is a merging of the two realms that is slowly poisoning everything in our world."And here's another quote I loved that some people might not want to see before they read the book:"We were never meant to exist.
And I didn't connect with all of the characters as much as I did in previous books -- this story felt like it was ultimately about Adelina.
❝You are a thousand things, mi Adelinetta, not just one. Do not reduce yourself to that.❞ That was sad, disappointing and upsetting. I waited a year for this, only because I read Marie's, The Young Elites late, and that was when I thought I found a favorite author since I enjoyed both of her books. I was quite wrong since I didn't enjoy Prodigy all that much like Legend. I completely loved The Rose Society, and I was so excited for The Midnight Star that I was actually able to wait a year. Now
I completely loved The Rose Society, and I was so excited for The Midnight Star that I was actually able to wait a year.
She keeps thinking about her past, about her past memories, friends, about her father, sister, and the past things she's done that she doesn't regret.The Midnight Star was nothing like I expected it to be.
The problem with Adelina is that her own nightmares and darkness haunts her and is what makes her weak; it is what gets in her way of being the White Wolf she is and being feared by everyone, meaning to destroy everything and everyone she loves.
I'm glad to inform you of the creation of the Official Magiano's Protection Society!Don't hesitate and join now! if you think you satisfy the required conditions!  You think that sarcasm makes everything better. You have a soft spot for tricksters and thieves. You agree that really, stealing a formidable lute is an achievement to be proud of (DUH). You love your inner darkness as much as the next person (maybe more), but you reserve yourself the right to fall for the adorable (but mischievous)
I'm glad to inform you of the creation of the Official Magiano's Protection Society!Don't hesitate and join now!
if you think you satisfy the required conditions!
➊ You think that sarcasm makes everything better.➋ You have a soft spot for tricksters and thieves.➌ You agree that really, stealing a formidable lute is an achievement to be proud of (DUH).➍ You love your inner darkness as much as the next person (maybe more), but you reserve yourself the right to fall for the adorable (but mischievous) half-mad* light all the same.
Alright, rooting for Adelina to be darker (this is me) and for Magiano to not suffer can seem impossible far-stretched, but hey, I love my contradictions.
“We are doomed to be forever young.”   The Young Elites.The Rose Society. I DO NOT MEAN TO DISCOURAGE ANYONE BY THIS . This is just me being overprotective. Even though i enjoyed the first two book immensely, i will not be finishing this series. I spoiled myself about the entire book, and i couldn't be more happier that i did. I have already returned my book back to the store. Farewell, Master Teren Santoro, and MI ADELINETTA. <3This is not what i wanted for you, and i refuse to accept this
“We are doomed to be forever young.” 
The Young Elites.The Rose Society.
I DO NOT MEAN TO DISCOURAGE ANYONE BY THIS
Even though i enjoyed the first two book immensely, i will not be finishing this series.
I spoiled myself about the entire book, and i couldn't be more happier that i did.
I have already returned my book back to the store.
Farewell, Master Teren Santoro, and MI ADELINETTA.
Goodbye, my young elites.
I don't think he is funny.
I do't think he is charming.
I find him pretty annoying.
TBH i pretty much dislike everyone except Teren and Adelina.
TMS is not bad, but it's not the best Marie Lu could offer either, and I know, because I still have The Young Elites and Champion (her best books so far imo) clear in my mind.I honestly think Lu should have written a much longer conclusion to the series, because some things were anticlimatic.
I liked that he wasn't truly himself, because that was really interesting, but, considering he was a favourite, I think Lu should have explored more the differences between the true Enzo and the empty vessel that came back.
PHEW.Why, if that wasn't the most laborious reading process of my life if ever I had one....okay, that's an exaggeration.(noitsnot) “The whispers taunt me. 'Why? Why?'It’s a question they ask over and over again. And my answer is always the same. 'Shut the fuckity fuck up.'But no matter how many times I answer the whispers, they keep asking, because they don’t believe me.”  (okyesitis)Miiiight have tweaked the quote a little bit there, but that's how it bloody should've been. Sorry for just spoi
I shit you not, you cannot go five pages without Adelina and her damn whispers and illusions plaguing you once again AAARGUUGHHHHH.How is it that a writer manages to give me the story I wanted and I'm still left bored and unsatisfied?
Which is why it ended up taking three whole painstaking months to finally get this jig over with.Despite all the shit that happens along the way, the fault lies not within the story, not at all.
You can use all the right ingredients and mix it as you like, but only a good chef knows how to spice it up and present a dish that makes you go W O W.
I'm not going to lie and say this wasn't a sad book.
I also felt like maybe there should have been a little bit more to it.
That being said, I'm sort of glad it didn't drag out like some books.
I really want to put a wonderful myth from the book in my review but that will give away too much.I have loved Adelina through the whole book.
Yes, she did evil things, but look at all the evil things that were done to her and her kind.
She also had kindness in her.
When you read the book you will know what I mean.
"Someday, when I am nothing but dust and wind, what tale will they tell about me?"-Adelina, THE MIDNIGHT STARI say: Thank you for this glorious trilogy, Marie Lu.
I refuse to accept this ending, goodbye.
A wonderful conclusion to this series, I love how Marie Lu does endings <3
I've loved Adelina from the very beginning of this series.
I love that she's ruthless and doesn't apologize for going after what she wants.
Sure she's maybe a bit crazy and definitely mean, but I have rooted for her from the first page.This portion of the journey is not what I was expecting.
I love where Marie went with it and the choices she made.Yes, I'm being intentionally vague.Yes, I had a serious case of the feels.Yes, it will be worth the wait.
**Huge thanks to G.P. Putnam's Sons Books for Young Readers and Edelweiss for providing the arc in exchange for an honest review**
Might edit the rating later, because I am influenced by that wonderful ending -- which, to be honest, was the highlight of the entire book.
My initial expectations and desires, to read a villain's tale, one filled with cunning and cleverness and ruthlessness, did somewhat materialize but combined with a dose of madness that partially stripped the beauty of the concept.
Sometimes I turned reading this into a chore, because I knew if I put it on indefinite hold, I'll never finish it.
The end of The Young Elites journey is bittersweet.
Good-bye, mi Adelinetta.
Good-bye, Roses and Daggers.
You were wonderful.
“Some say that, once upon a time, she had a prince, a father, a society of friends. Others say that she was once a wicked queen, a worker of illusions, a girl who brought darkness across the lands. Still others say that she once had a sister, and that she loved her dearly. Perhaps all of these are true.” I absolutely adore this entire series and for me, this was a fairly satisfying conclusion to the trilogy. I think Marie Lu is great at endings, she leaves them open-ended enough you can add to
So I definitely appreciated the ending of this series, it wrapped up most of the story and the characters well, but my main disappointment is that I felt some characters stories were left a little hanging and the storyline took a weird direction which I didn't feel was foreshadowed enough.
The characters remained as diabolical and twisted as they were earlier in the series - Adelina's arc came to a conclusion in a way I was really satisfied with, and I also really liked the addition of Magiano and his role in this book.
“You are a light,” she replies gently. “And when you shine, you shine bright.”  I'm speechless. The ending is purely beautiful and inspirational. I loved Magiano, Adelina and Sergio, these characters are virile and push the story forward efficiently that I can't see how this book can be this good without them. Marie Lu managed to link the myth of Gods and Goddesses with the superpowers of the Elites very well, power always comes with a prize and it must be paid sooner or later. This was all the
I loved Magiano, Adelina and Sergio, these characters are virile and push the story forward efficiently that I can't see how this book can be this good without them.
I wanted to see Adelina exact her revenge and claim what she wanted, but at some point, I felt it overwhelmed me, the darkness was so thick and crushed my lungs until it was hard to breath.
Magiano, I loved his playful side, and the way he soothes Adelina broke my heart.
While Adelina wants to find her sister among the war she wages, she still blames her for what happened in the last book.
“Where will you go, when the clock strikes twelve? What will you do, when you face yourself? How will you live, knowing what you’ve done? How will you die, if your soul’s already gone?”  Story ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐ “There was once a time when darkness shrouded the world, and the darkness had a queen.”  After her victory Adelina is now queen of Kenettra. But one city is not enough. Slowly she conquers other cities, other countries.Soon she rules with fear and darkness. As the war between the two groups go on so
How will you die, if your soul’s already gone?”  Story ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ “There was once a time when darkness shrouded the world, and the darkness had a queen.”  After her victory Adelina is now queen of Kenettra.
Slowly she conquers other cities, other countries.Soon she rules with fear and darkness.
All of that made her such a realistic, dark and twisted character.
The other characters, new and old, are also created in a perfect, realistic way.
The way Marie Lu writes is beautiful and addictive and now she is one of my favorite authors because of that trilogy.
*4.75 OTHERWORLDLY STARS* "There was once a time when darkness shrouded the world, and the darkness had a queen.” Nope. Nope. Nooooope.This book has me sooooo damn conflicted, I don't even know where to start with this review or how to wrap my head around everything that's happened and that this trilogy just officially ended!I don't even know whether I freaking love or absolutely loathe that godforsaken ending, I'm just completely in shock right now.This is still one of the darkest series I have
I loved that in the end she slowly let go of her darkness again, and that ending was absolutely perfect yet heartbreaking for her at the same time!Also, don't even get me started on Magiano because I could just rant on and on about how much I love him, but I'll spare you all from that and just say that he's an absolutely wonderful character that I fell in love with from the first moment he appeared.
On 10/13/15 I just finished the Rose Society, what do I do with my life. Whispers in my head "You wait a year for your little White Wolf to come back and kill more people."1/25/16This has a name now.Cool.10/12/16I just finished Midnight Star, what do I do with my life. Whispers in my head "Look at the stars for the White Wolf"
When she appears on the other side of the world, I will be there, and when she returns here, so will I.”  (hide spoiler)] Enzo and Adelina I do not doubt that these two loved each other once.
---(view spoiler)[ The first time Raffaele ever saw Adelina, it was a stormy-wracked night that changed her life and, indeed, the world.
Adelina and Violetta It's the third and final book, yet I am still not sure how I feel about these two.
Nevertheless, I loved Adelina until the very end and, like Magiano, I respected her decision.
I am so disappointed.
blog***The Midnight Star by Marie LuBook Three of The Young Elites seriesPublisher: G.P. Putnam's Sons Books for Young ReadersPublication Date: October 11, 2016Rating: 4 starsSource: ARC sent by the publisherSummary (from Goodreads):There was once a time when darkness shrouded the world, and the darkness had a queen.Adelina Amouteru is done suffering.
There may be spoilers if you haven't read The Young Elites or The Rose Society, but you're safe in terms of The Midnight Star.***The Midnight Star is an intense, dark, and thrilling conclusion to a fascinating and utterly unique fantasy series.
Told you, I love the first two books, they are dark and intense in the way that I like and enjoy very much.
I feel like the characters kinda lack their fascinating persinalities which I love, or maybe the story is just so-so that it didnt grab me.
In spite of I LOVE the characters in this series, but after I face their fates (view spoiler)[ their death.
(hide spoiler)] I was like "What?
(view spoiler)[Their dead should be more epic ugh I REALLY WANT MORE!
(hide spoiler)]Okay, I did get emotional at the climax scenes.
Things I expected from The Midnight Star:• some sort of a happy, or at least, meaningful ending• lots of epicness and crazy battles• something different that wasn't in the other booksWhat I got:Well, I definitely got something new/different from this book....
There's a lot of words I could use to describe this series, and I never thought boring would be one of them.
I literally felt like nothing happened in the first 50%- nothing of importance anyway.
And there was like two scenes where I thought things would get crazy, but still..
I did like the plot and the unification of previous enemies for the good of the world but I wasn't satisfied with the characters.There were a lot of supporting characters that were more prominent in previous books but were pushed aside in this.
We did get a glimpse of Teren's (love of my life) past which I liked because I always wanted to know what caused him to be the way he was.Also, I wanted more romance especially for Raffaele giving his past.
I knew it wasn't going to end in a happily ever after giving the history of the series so it was expected.
My heart is breaking...
