https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/383223.Mystery_Mile
This book is only number 2 in the series & apparently in the first book The Crime at Black Dudley Campion wasn't the lead detective.
Campion is an appealing character & I can understand his creator falling for him (so to speak)I just felt that though I enjoyed a lot of the dialogue & the book's sense of place, that for quite a short book it took a long time to get to the point.
I didn't think Allingham played fair with all her clues.
I also didn't have any trouble putting the book aside.
Having decided to give her another try and read the Campion series from the very beginning, I enjoyed, “The Crime at Black Dudley,” and decided to continue with “Mystery Mile.” As with, “The Crime at Black Dudley,” we have another novel featuring sinister gangs and criminal masterminds.
However, it is soon apparent that leaving the country has not put him out of danger and Albert Campion foils an attempt on his life on board the ship, “Elephantine.” This leads Marlowe to track Campion down in London and for Judge Lobbett, and his family, to be spirited away to Mystery Mile and a country house owned by Giles and Biddy Paget.
OK, I have an admission.Margery Allingham clearly based bespectacled, fair-haired, and apparently silly Albert Campion, first introduced in The Crime at Black Dudley in 1929, on Lord Peter Wimsey — no matter how much I refused to admit it when I read Allingham’s debut novel.
Needless to say, all does not go as planned (there wouldn’t be a novel otherwise, would there?), and readers will enjoy every page in this suspenseful novel in which the Lobbetts and Campion try to outwit the clever head of the gang, Simister himself.
Albert Campion is a pretty close analogue of Peter Wimsey, complete with a number of idiosyncrasies, and Lugg (although of a decidedly more criminal bent than Bunter) shares some characteristics with Lord Peter's man.It's still fun, even though it's more or less mocking one of my favourite series in many ways -- it manages to be a story on its own, too.
I did find the mystery a little bit disjointed/incoherent: it helped that I'd read a summary somewhere before, but some of the events seemed pretty random.Overall, I enjoyed it enough that I might pick up more, but not enough that I'm going to be in a hurry.
I've heard ‘If you like Dorothy L.
Protagonist Albert Campion may be able to maintain dozens of aliases, but he is constantly making errors of the ‘not to worry, the evil gang can't possibly be on to us yet’ and ‘it's perfectly safe for the womenfolk to wander down to the village alone’ kind.
Marlowe is young, foolish, ineffectual, and handsome.
Giles is young, foolish, ineffectual, and stupid.
Campion follows in the footsteps of Sherlock Holmes in the sense that both are clever but likely to solve the mystery after all the important people are dead.
Not a cozy, exactly, but if you like British mysteries, you'll like it.
Campion is somewhat enigmatic, but here, unlike in the first mystery of the series, he's pretty much on his own.
While on board, another attempt is made, and Campion decides he needs to take this man and his family under his protective wing at a remote village on the coast known as Mystery Mile.
I love golden-age mysteries, and although to some they may seem quite dated, to me that's part of their charm.
So sit back, relax, and enjoy this well-done mystery while you're having a nice cup of tea.
I have been reading Ngaio Marsh (Inspector Alleyn), listening to Agatha Christie in the car and have just started on Margerty Allingham's Albert Campion.
I read the first book in the series (in which Campion plays a minor role) a month or so ago and now I have just read Mystery Mile.
I know that some people find Campion's silly persona annoying but I don't.
I like that he hides his intellect and abilities, constantly causing people to underestimate him.
I am looking forward to starting the next book in this series tonight .
This is my second time reading Allingham and apparently a second mystery for this particular character.
Every mystery writer has a detective and Allingham has Alfred Campion, a slightly ludicrous, though highly amusing character who, according to his business card, has no time for cases that are vulgar or plebeian.
This was a sort of quaint or cozy mystery and for some reason it just didn't work for me.
It was a perfectly decent read and pleasantly quick one at that, but didn't really entice or invited to check out more Campion mysteries.
This is the second book in the Albert Campion series.
They are okay, and the characters are fun, the story itself really didn't hold my interest.I listened to this on audiobook, and the narrator was excellent, giving each character a unique voice, so that was definitely a plus.
However, I found that while I enjoyed the characters and the flavour and humour they brought, I was very easily distracted from the murder mystery.I might pick up others in this series if I needed an audiobook for commuting, but the series isn't good enough that I would go out of my way to make sure to read all of them.
It's an okay series.
I enjoyed the atmospheric "Tiger in the Smoke" by the same author, but not this one as much. This is more plot driven, there is a mystery, a criminal mastermind, an unexplained (until the end) suicide, some suspicious foreigners and quite a lot of action, but it was curiously lacking in suspense despite all that. It did not help that I found Albert Campion irritating and the rest of the characters shallow.
While reading this one. I found out that dear Albert was only a featured character in the first book. The Crime at Black Dudley. I enjoyed that one. As I also enjoyed this one.Both have the same criminals - the Simister crowd.I had it partially solved. Right guy but didn't know his position.
This was fun. I especially enjoyed Albert Campion's quirky personality and speech style, although I didn't understand some of his allusions and vocabulary. Will definitely read more Campions.
I do adore Albert Campion. This was a reread for me and just as enjoyable the second time around. Can't recommend this series enough!
After several attempts on his life, Judge Lobbett engages the help of unconventional amateur detective Albert Campion.
Campion arranges for the Judge and his family to take refuge in the Suffolk village of Mystery Mile, but strange visitors and a sudden death mean that he has to use all his ingenuity to keep the family out of danger.Enjoyable mystery/thriller with an engaging mixture of fun and menace.
Against them is pitted the ebullient Campion, who shows glimpses of his true character behind his 'silly ass' persona and intriguing hints of a hidden past.
Campion is one of my favourite Golden Age detectives for his hidden depths, and I am thoroughly enjoying rereading a series that I first encountered over 40 years ago.
There are of course a couple of pretty girls, one of whom (of course) needs rescuing, two dashing would-be heroes, and the warmhearted Cockney crook and his mum, "who's as good as a bull pup." The American millionaire's son can't help talking just like an English prepschool boy, and there's a bit of what my friend Elizabeth calls "cheerful racism" (did you know that all Turks have pear-shaped heads, dear?) but it was published in 1929, after all.
) And does Allingham seriously think that "Crowdy Lobbet" is a standard sort of American name?
Allingham has developed an interesting character in Campion, one who appears to be more of a aristocratic, dapper, bumbling fool than a shrewd detective (a bit pre Colombo).
Being developed along with his character is his regular compatriot Lugg (his man - I won't say the "butler" did it!) who is a total foil to Campion's character, and still Lugg remains extremely loyal to our main character.
An interesting pair of characters in a mystery which develops rapidly, although it takes a while to deveop and to warm up to some of the characters.
Although still concerned with international crime syndicates, Mystery Mile is a good, page-turning mystery, and a thorough-going introduction to Albert Campion as main character (rather than bit part).
There's an almost Holmesian quality to these stories and it's hard not to be charmed by Campion, whose guise of fool is only nine-parts false.The women in the early Campion stories aren't tremendously impressive (at least compared to a later stand-out).
They're either fragile flowers or practical, nice girls whose role is to be protected.Allingham - like most Golden Age British mystery writers - has a fair chunk of classism and a dash of racism embedded in the mileau, which does give the occasional pause.
Some Golden Age crime is always nice.
The execution, however, is a bit flaky.The story is set in a small English village, where an American judge is hiding out from some vengeful gangsters who have vowed to kill him.
English village life, isn't as seamless as it could have been.
At times, it feels like alternating between two different novels.It also has, at times, a tendency to get a bit confusing (not in a good way).To conclude: An uneven mystery, but one that during the good parts conjures up writing the likes of John Dickson Carr.
It is written in a time when readers played close attention to miniscule analysis of story and plot.
I had some hard time following all the trivial plot details.
I listened to most of it and had to laugh at the British narrator's interpretation of the American accent---just make him/her sound like Humphrey Bogart.The plot revolves around the bad guy, Simister, who has already wreaked havoc on New York City, pursuing an American judge, Crowdy Lobbet, and his family to England.
Albert Campion is hired to protect the judge from Simister.
Campion travels back from the States on the same ship as the renowned US Judge Crowdy Lobbett, during the journey he saves the Judge's life and once in the UK arranges for him (and his son and daughter) to stay at Mystery Mile in order to keep him and his family safe.  It seems though as if the Simister gang are ahead of them and no where seems to be safe, we have disappearances, blackmail, kidnapping and attempted murder! So Campion (and his somewhat unorthodox manservant Lugg) need to pull all the stops out to keep people safe.
Gets off to a somewhat slow start, but the plot is engaging. Not her finest, but a good read.
3.5 stars. I do like Roger Campion. I’m not sure if he’s crazy, or stupid or a bit of both. But he does seem to have luck on his side, and Mr Lugg as well
Seriously silly. I forgot how much fun this series is.
The first "starring" role for Campion, the urbane adventurer for hire. Nothing sordid, mind you. Here he's helping an American and his family. The father has a price on his head, being targeted by a man known only as Simister. Not quite as good as some of the other Allinghams, but still enjoyable.
In this, the second appearance of “Albert Campion” we are treated to a masterful and sweeping mystery tale in the grandest of grand manners.Mr. Campion is quietly enlisted to the aid of Judge Crowdy Lobbett.
It soon becomes apparent that Lobbett’s life is in danger because he knows too much about a notorious underworld organization known only as Simister, which is legendary and known to be ruthless.Judge Lobbett, his son Malcolm and daughter Isopel, are all taken to a remote manor of Mystery Mile for their safety.
Arriving at Mystery Mile they are greeted by the (impoverished) lord of the manor, young Giles, and his sister Biddy.
My 2nd Margery Allingham after Crime at Black Dudley, also Ms Allingham's 1st & 2nd in the Albert Campion mysteries.
I enjoyed this book though these early Campion mysteries are pretty lightweight compared to her slightly later output, still very readable though.
The basic premise of this book is that Campion is helping an American judge, Crowdy Lobbett, to hide out from the dangerous Simister gang many of whose members have been sent to jail by Judge Lobbett back in the States.
Will Campion succeed in keeping the judge safe on a small Suffolk island or will he become another victim of Simister??
Allingham's Campion books may be an acquired taste as some readers are put off by the main character's "silly ass" persona while others find him endearing.
I am somewhere in the middle.......this is the second in the long running series and Campion is still a fatuous twit who is hard to take seriously although outward appearances hide his true character.
It becomes obvious that Campion is not exactly who he portrays himself to be and this puzzle continues through all the books in the series.....but that is only an aside in this story set in the Mystery Mile, a fog shrouded salt marsh where the majority of the action occurs.
The liberties taken with poking fun at Peter Wimsey and Bunter are hilarious, the humour is droll, and the ending one of my favorites.
There are even British English voices to download, so it doesn't sound so Stephen Hawkings-ish.
They've come a long way, baby!So very much better than her first Campion, The Black Dudley something.
He gets fleshed out better, Lugg is missing in the first half, but is invaluable in the last, and the end is a surprise.
English cozies in blustery weather, unsuitable for gardening.Netflix has this BBC production.
Where the others felt stilted and a bit leaden, here the action zips along uncluttered by the Whimsey-lite latin interjections and snatches of song - even the lugubrious Lugg is gets a (marginally) brighter 3D personality make-over, which is all to the good.The obvious reason here is this is one of the earlier Campion novels, and you do get a sense of Allingham spreading her literary wings whilst still retaining some youthful vim.
The upshot of which is where I've been wavering on the Campion front, this readable variation of the locked room mystery has bought back into the fold.
After discovering that a secondary character, Albert Campion, was by far the most interesting creation in her "The Black Dudley Murder," Margery Allingham built a series of mysteries around him.
By the second book, "Mystery Mile," Campion is beginning to emerge from his original guise as a parody of the more famous Lord Peter Wimsey to become a fascinating character in his own right.
A cracking tale of murder, mayhem, and mystery, the reader gets new insights into Albert's character, including his susceptible heart, and, at the end, is left with yet another on-going mystery: who IS Albert Campion, really?
