https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/122352.Mouse_Tales
We must have got it when I was about 5 or 6 - it was in the Blue Peter sale thingy they held in my school all those many years ago and used to belong to a girl called Franceska as she has written her name on a sticker at the front.I wonder where she is now and how old she is?It's a lovely set of stories, I remember them quite well and I still laugh at them even now.
I suppose my mother's hoping to give it to the jumble - but I don't think so!
Funny, quirky, clever, and perfect for any age, whether toddler, beginning reader, or adult.
Funny stories and great early reader!
I love, love, LOVE these clever little mouse tales! Such a great book!
This is a book I read in first grade. As well as I remenber it has tales and fake stories.
This was one of my favorite books when I was growing up so I bought it for my son.
There are only 4 short stories in this book so it's a quick read.
There's a story about a little mouse who was cloud gazing and scared himself when he saw a cat that he thought was after him.
Another tale was about a little mouse going on a journey and he wore out his shoes so he got a new pair of roller skates.
When those wore out he got himself some boots and finally a new pair of feet.
July 2018 - things start slowly, and the stories work up to be funnier and funnier as they go on. By the time we get to the mouse putting on new feet, Ben is in hysterics. He's chosen it every night since we first read it, and even wanted to "read" it to himself in bed.
William really enjoys Lobel's work - his first favorite was At Home with Owl. He enjoys these stories almost as much.June 2017
Eldest read this as part of the AO curriculum - excellent recommendation - she laughed and enjoyed it. This has helped in her feeling successful in her reading ability.
A Papa Mouse, tells his seven mouse boys seven different bedtime stories. This chapter book is an enjoyable read for the beginning reader.
This book was so great, I got it for a sibling but then ended up reading it on my own too :) it's fun to read silly stories like these.
Funny, weird, sweet.
Great illustrations and interesting stories that had me scratching my head with practical questions but hey they’re for kids lol.
This is a silly book, but not very or seriously silly so 3 stars!
It was silly and amazing.
If I could chose one series by Lobel, it would easily be Frog & Toad, but if you love Lobel and want more, Owl at Home and MouseTales are also good.Frog & Toad Treasury, Lobel, 1987https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
This book of little stories is about seven young mouse boys who lie awake one night, and their father, who at their request for a bedtime story tells his sons that he will tell them seven tales, a different one for each boy.
I like the way that the father mouse looks just like an illustrated version of author Arnold Lobel, himself.
If asked, I would say that my favorite individual story would have to be the second "chapter", Clouds, about a young mouse watching for familiar shapes in the clouds with his mother.
When Papa mouse was done telling all seven of his stories, the mouse children were sound asleep.This story is written in a very easy to read format which makes it great for new readers.
The concepts in the book are very simple, however I feel this is great for new readers as it allows them to focus on their reading skills while still being able to follow along with the story.
New readers will love the fun and simple storied within the larger story, and teachers can even use each story individually as a short reading exercise for students who may need extra practice.
Some lack a meaningful resolve and a few have proverbial-like takeaways that might be more than you want to get into.
It doesn't make sense."Reading Level: 1st - 3rd gradesCleanliness: a mouse's pants fall, exposing his underwear.
His wife hits him on the head for looking silly.**Like my reviews?
These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't.
I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it!
There are seven short tales, all involving mice, and bookended by a father mouse who is telling these stories to his children at bed time, one per child.
The seven stories included are: The Wishing Well, Clouds, Very Tall Mouse and Very Short Mouse, The Mouse and the Winds, The Journey, The Old Mouse, and The Bath.
Of the seven, my favorite is The Wishing Well as it takes an unusual and humorous approach to the usual wishing well story.
The most disturbing of the stories is The Journey because it involves replacement feet.
Reason for Reading: Son read aloud to me as his reader.This is perfect Arnold Lobel.
Once all seven mouse boys are in bed, Papa mouse begins storytime and he tells one story per child.
Thus we have a book of seven short tales.
They are all cute and funny and both ds and I enjoyed the book very much.
So this is certainly a boy friendly book, but I don't think girls are going to notice the lack of females; the stories are just funny for everyone.
Plus, of course, this is Lobel in the hey day of his artistic talent.
This is a fun book for kids.
The 3-year-old I babysit loves the story about the wishing well, and it's my favourite too.
Pretty funny!
The 3-year-old is scared of the cat in the clouds, but thinks the new feet part is hilarious.
(I'm not a huge fan of the new feet story - you'd have to use your own discretion based on how sensitive your kids are to decide whether you'll read it to them).
In any case, this book will go in the good pile.
The stories are silly and some are cute (Tall Mouse and Short Mouse!)
This tale is now nearly forty-years alive, and it still holds water to the bedtime story classics. Well, well, well. We have here seven short stories within one story. A papa mouse saying a bedtime story to each one of his mice-children. All seven stories are uniquely displayed on a silver-platter to these children-mice. I get a sense that papa mouse really loves his children, or just maybe it was their lucky night, when eat mouse hear a story catered to their particular disposition. Wonderful book, it's one I'd love to read over and over again.
A book my 6 yr old loved, a little old for my preschoolers. A solid reading level 2 book, this reader has a good amount of advanced vocabulary words, but not so long that it discourages a new reader. Used it for his read out loud book, which was perfect. It took about 15 mins for him to read and had just enough new vocabulary words to make it challenging. Also, it was a fun and interesting story he could get into. He liked it so much, he asked for more by this author. Great reading book!
-Harper Trophy level2-7/30 10min-Seven-Mouse-Tale-mysterious-Father-Tell-ChildrenQ. If your only one wish can come true, what would you wish?A. If my only one wish can come true, I would wish to be an university student forever. ha ha!It is because university students have a lot of time and they can do whatever they want!This is a very cute story!!If I have children in the future, I want to read this book to them.
Papa Mouse tells one story for each of his 7 boys if they promise to go to sleep. Lucky there are 7 chapters in the book!! "Clouds" is great for Oregon weather...don't like it now...wait 5 minutes and it will change. The Old Mouse gets what he deserves. He's mean to the kids and his pants fall down in public. No one will help him. His wife hits him on the head. The ladies run. But the kids give him gum to hold up his pants and now he's nice to the kids.
I liked this book just fine, so I gave it three stars. But my son said in the middle, "This is boring." He waited patiently until the end and then said, "That was boring." So I think he would give it one star.Editted: Well, we read it again and he seemed to enjoy it more. He sat through it patiently and didn't complain, anyway.
Mouse Tales was a book about a Papa mouse who told seven different stories to his little mouse babies, to get them to go to sleep. I enjoyed all the stories but the funniest and best story to me was the story about the tall mouse small mouse. It was cute, and hilarious. And the kids got to interact with the stories as well. That's one thing I like about Aronald books.
4 1/2 stars. What a charming book! I love the tales. They don't directly relate to each other, but the tie-in that Papa Mouse is reading them to his not-sleepy-yet boys works for me. I'd like to tell you what I enjoyed the most, but that would ruin the story. Suffice it to say that the stories make me giggle. My preschooler and I enjoy saying, "That's so silly!" repeatedly as we read.
love this book!!! I remember my dad reading it to me and my sister when we were younger! loved it then...and live it now!! all the mini stories in this boom are terrific! my youngest (3 years) and I read the book tonight...she fell asleep on the second to last page! (like the mice in the book at the end! perfect!!
