https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17157681-the-hobbit-part-one
A great book for anyone of any age. However, more importantly the message of being willing to face your fears really hits home. I LOVED IT!
The story takes place in an alternate world of magic and dragons referred to as 'Middle Earth'.
Our Main protagonist is a hobbit named Bilbo Baggins who loves nothing more than peace and quiet, that is unexpectedly drug on an adventure by a wizard named Gandalf with a group of dwarves.
The story takes place on this adventure, and the hardships the group enduress.
The main protagonist is relatable and relatively realistic in terms of how somebody would act that's in his position, and as the world develops around him, there's visible change in him as well.
My first audiobook! The Hobbit is one of my all time favourite books, and I really enjoyed listening to it. The narrator did a fantastic job!
I know that J.R.R Tolkien wanted a secret language when he was a youngster.He was impressed with his sisters friends who made their own and would speak it without him knowing what they meant.Tolkien decided to create his own language one day. Only for it to end up being: The Hobbit.Thankfully nobody could read this amazing talent's words before he published it.A Keeper!
I watched the film first. I thought the film was long but there is so much more in the book.I had to take notes so I didn't lose where I was. A great book though and I love Lord of The Rings
Finally, after a long time started with Hobbit. The first part of the story deals with how a hobbit named Bilbo befriends certain dwarves and starts on an adventure of a lifetime. The second part takes on the new twists and turns which would ultimately lead the base for the book LOTR. Though a Children's book, this book hooks you unto it like a charm. Do not miss it if you can.
this book was sooooooo old-fashioned so it got really boring
It was fantastic
Very much loved this one. Much better than the movie.
If you heard a weird noise while reading this book, that was me chewing the bed out of sheer boredom, good book though
I honestly wish I read this sooner. I was so happy with the story and the flow.It look a bit longer to read because I'm currently in a reading slump, but I reallywant to get out of it and think this novel will help.I love the little adventures they go on and I loved the writing style.But when Gandalf ditched them, like dude and that point I was like really Gandalf!? really?.But understanding the whole self discovery thing it makes sense. Overall I'm excited! I'll probably even re watch the films after, kinda in the hobbit, dwarf,Elf mood.
I was not much of a fantasy reader (let me say again, WAS not) and I was recommended this book.It is definitely a book a child could read, I got it done pretty quickly. Not only because of how cute/interesting the story is, but I could just not put it down! Everytime I would stop reading it for the day, I'd look forward to the next because you never knew what was going to happen. The characters are perfect, the story line flows- it is just a genuinely good book for anyone to read.
I thought it was a really nice book. It all started with the wizard Gandalf bringing some dwarves to the hobbit Bilbo Baggins' doorstep. They wind up in an adventure for gold, something Bilbo has never done once in his sheltered life. During their journey, some of the dangers they encounter are trolls and goblins, but aided by Gandalf's friends and acquaintances like the eagles, they survive the journey. Now I'm still not sure what's going to happen next, I'm still not finished reading it.
Young Bilbo Baggins casually living in his comfortable little hobbit hole is whisked away by the legendary wizard Gandalf and a crew of fearless dwarves to reclaim their stolen treasure. That is how everything starts. When follows is a great adventure book, a story I that is among my favorites and a book that, in my opinion, every child must read.
Rob Inglis does an excellent narration. He even sings in character too!!
The Hobbit is a book by J.R.R. Tolkien.
A story that takes place in a fantasy world known as Middle Earth and is about a hobbit named Bilbo Baggins.
The story begins in the shire, a town that is inhabited by Hobbits.
Gandalf the gray, a wizard, ask Bilbo, who is currently contempt with his life in the shire, to leave and go on an adventure.
Bilbo says no, but Gandalf is persistent.
I loved this book because it shows a great transition from someone who had no stuck up and homesick to an adventure seeking hero.
I was pretty pleased with the narration on The Hobbit.
Sometimes the voices are a little off (occasionally Bilbo's voice is high and other times it's very low, for example).
The poems are put to tunes, which really throws me off because I'm so used to hearing the songs from the live action and animated movies, and occasionally they are sung a bit nasally.
In all, if you have never read The Hobbit I highly recommend it - it's one of my favourites to read over and over.
If you have wanted to reread it but find you don't have a lot of time I suggest this audio book.
Never have I ever wanted to read an eight pages long description of every bush along a path, and yet that is exactly what Tolkein delivered.
This book could be summarized swiftly, and yet it remains a long, painful tale of a hobbit on an adventure.
While fantasy, it forces you to experience Bilbo's tale on EXACTLY Tolkein's terms, rather than let you colour in moments with your own imagaination, thus drawing you into the story.
I took a class on Tolkein in University in an attempt to better appreciate his tales, but I remain indignant.
I thought that the book was an interesting adventure novel.
It is inspiring to see the main character, Bilbo, leave his comfortable setting and be submerged into an adventurous setting that he never thought he would be in.
I think the book can in fact relate to modern events as it shows someone finding themselves through a series of trials and tribulations.
The various adventures and battles that took place throughout the novel gave the book suspenseful elements.
While the book is filled with adventures, and coming of age, it also shows the importance of friendship.
Overall I believe this book was a good read.
Not much to say about this book that hasn’t been said before. It is so popular, deservingly so, because it taps into mythology. The hero on a quest, overcoming tough odds along the way, having his/ her moment of deepest trouble, then ultimately winning. Throw in the fact that Tolkien has a writing style that just flows from page to page effortlessly and you have a winner.It doesn’t hurt that the characters and places are hugely memorable too.A book that never ages, and never will.
The Hobbit is both charming and adventurous. The characters are very brightly written and develop well, the quest is treacherous and classic (maybe even is THE classic), and the world is very well thought out and lively. I personally love the narration of The Hobbit; I can't help but feel like I'm sitting around a camp fire listening to Tolkein tell a tale passed down through generations of storytellers as I read this book.
I enjoyed this novel. However, I read it after reading The Lord of the Rings. The way it was written instantly hit me. It was done for youths. Not adults. It was a fine story and one can appreciate how Tolkien sat down and developed the more advanced Lord of the Rings story from this wonderful tale.
Unabridged Audiobook - 10 CDsPlot: 4 stars Audiobook production: 5 starsReally enjoyed Tolkien's writing style in this book, formal but completely accessible. Narrator Rob Inglis should be praised for his performance throughout the audiobook. As well as his considerable natural singing talent - evident throughout the book.
I enjoy reading the Lord of the Rings books, and after reading the LotF trilogy first, this book was a very fun read, as I already knew a lot of the setting and characters from Middle-Earth. I recommend this book to anyone who likes fantasy and adventure books.
I keep coming back to this. I read it at school, then university, then more recently. The fill has affected my thinking about it, but the reading of the text can't be displaced. It is a wonderful book. A trifle long, perhaps.
It feels like Tolkien wanted to send up common fantasy themes in this story, before reinventing the fantasy genre with "The Lord of the Rings."The story revolves around Bilbo Baggins, a tiny creature who wants to do nothing more than eat and enjoy his happy-go-lucky life.
Fantasy is not a genre I've had a lot of encounters with, so this story would mark a fine introduction to the genre for new readers.
And for veterans of Fantasy, this will still feel like a playful romp through a fascinating world.
What a fantastic book. I love the details. You can easily imagine yourself inside this realm of fantasy and magic.
After I watch the movies so I came here to read all his books
Doesn't give the thrills like LOTR does but still, worth to read to have some information and background about Hobbits and ''The Hobbit''.
I loved this book because there is a lot of action and gets you feeling like you are inside another fantasy world.
