https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1526402.The_Rubadub_Mystery
The 'R' mysteries, featuring Roger, Dinah, Snubby, Barney, Loony the spaniel and Miranda the monkey, are some of Enid Blyton's best.
Although I was not so discerning as a child, I do find some objectionable elements in Blyton's books as an adult -- there is no denying the overtones of sexism and racism.
The characters are so likable, funny (especially Snubby, I just love him!) and natural -- never priggish as so many Blyton children are.
And in this lovely series, The Rubadub Mystery is the very best, full of danger, excitement and adventure, and yet very poignant.
I loved this book when I was young, and still do.
Something important for the series happens at the end, but let's not get into spoiler territory.Roger, Diana and Snubby go on holidays to a seaside inn, and as always the author has to find a way to get them together with Barney.
The adventure is slow to start in this one.
There are some strange things going on, but it's a long while before we can definitely say "yes, we are in the middle of an adventure".
However, the story until them is pleasant enough, while we share the children's holidays.Apparently, this book was conceived as the last in the series, but later the author decided to write two more.
Just like the Rilloby Fair Mystery this was a little hard to believe. And there was no reason to take the kid, he/she could have done it alone.
Love this old-fashioned mystery.
I loved this book!
I wondered how Barney meet up with his father, and now I know!
It was a simple mystery to solve this time though, and Barney had more to do with it than Snubby, Diana or Roger.
I liked it though, because I guessed the baddies long before the children did.
Another fun adventure, and I do wonder why there are only six in this series- Barney is such a good character that I wish she had written more!
I'd like to get Barney, Snubby and Fatty from the Find Outers in a room, then we'd have some fun!
I read this book in 1970 (+-) I was a child at the time but found this book mesmerising. I see some people question the political and gender correctness of some of the E.B. books. Well, that was the way things were at the time. I overlook it and take it for what it's worth. Great reading for kids and some adults :-)
turning point untuk Barney, hampir di bagian akhir Barney mulai menyadari betapa merananya hidup seorang diri-harapan bertemu ayahnya yang dirasa mustahil dan mulai menerimanya sebagai kepahitan namun ketika Ayahnya muncul, it's really saved him. Dan sebagai pembaca, saya sangat berbahagia dia bertemu Ayahnya, seperti perasaan Diana, Roger, dan Snubby.
ROGER, SNUBBY, DIANA AND BARNEY ARE ALL LOOKING FORWARD TO SPEND THEIR HOLIDAYS IN AN OLD INN.BUT THERE IS AN EXPLOSION IN THE NEARBY SECRET SUBMARINE BAY AND A POLICE INVESTIGATION STARTS. IN THE BOOK THE 4 OF THEM ARE OFF TO EXPLORE THE SECRETS.ANOTHER AMAZING THING THAT HAPPEN IS THAT BARNEY FOUND HIS DAD,WHOM HE WAS SEARCHING.
Another superb set of books with its unique characters and adventures..
I hope that the rub-a-dub mystery will be exciting and mysterious when I read it.
It was either this or the Ring O Bells Mystery that was the first chapter book I ever read.
i remember this as the first book that i really enjoyed reading in primary school. a hand me down from my mother, who introduced me to the wonder of words.
Not my favourite Enid Blyton mystery as a kid, but still enjoyable.
still exciting to read. even as a grown up now.
Members of Riverina Regional Library reserve your copy now
Tidak terdapat petualangan yang merata menegangkan bagi semua tokoh detektif muda tersebut. I know Enid Blyton could do better than that.
