https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1062306.Benjamin_West_and_His_Cat_Grimalkin
Apparently, Quakers don't believe in art...I never knew this.
Its considered evil I guess.
So ironically, "Benjamin West and His Cat Grimalkin" is about a Quaker boy who loves art.
Ben does his utmost to study art, even behind his family's back.
He cuts pieces of Grimalkin's fur to make paint brushes, making him all patchy and weird looking.
This makes Ben's superstitious father think the cat is either cursed, sick, or possessed by a demon.
This book is one of those short books you can read in possibly two sittings but you never forget.
One of my all-time favorite books. The story of the sincere desire of this little boy to pursue his talent is inspiring. The characters are well written, the setting is unique. Best of all, it is based on a true story! After finishing the book, my kids and I were able to see an actual Benjamin West painting at the Cincinnati Art Museum. We will never forget this story! I even bought this book for my mother in law for her birthday. She loved it.
This book is about how Benjamin saves a kitten from dying.
Benjamin named the kitten Grimalkin just like him.
Later on his father got him a feather, and some black paint.
His teacher does not approve of him painting in class.
His father signs him up for a really good school, and at the end he becomes the president.
I thought this book was really good, some parts were boring but the rest were awesome.
I feel happy I did not go to that school.
When I was reading I thought his cat was a lot like my cat.
I love this book so much.
This is a charming book about a real Quaker boy who becomes the royal painter to King George III.
He is aided by local Indians who teach him how to make colors out of things found in nature.
Benjamin also shows his resourcefulness and determination when he "borrows" from his cat's tail to make paintbrushes.
The Quakers believe art to be worldly and vain, so Benjamin has to work to get his parents and church to recognize his talent and permit him to receive training.
Benjamin West became a famous and influential painter as a result.
Kids of all ages will love this book!
This was delightful. I read it aloud to my 9-year-old son who loved it as much as I did. All along the way he kept saying, "She's a great writer. I love this book!" And as we finished he said, "If I ever have children, I will read them this book!"
My boys loved this book and it was a great way to bring history alive for them.
Based on the (mostly) true story of the Quaker childhood of 18th century painter Benjamin West.
The Indians were cool." From mama: I read all of Henry's horse books as a kid, and I loved Dennis's illustrations.
My son loves cats and he thought Grimalkin was amazing although we both agreed that Henry went a little too far anthropomorphizing him , to the point where we half expected that any minute he'd talk.
Also, at 9, his interest is turning to books where kids have adventures that don't involve magic, things Logan could really do himself, like Swallows and Amazons and Swiss Family Robinson.
A really sweet tale of a little boy growing up in a Quaker household who wants to be an artist. :)
We read Benjamin West and His Cat Grimalkin as part of our not-so- great artist study this term.
When I asked Hannah to tell me about Benjamin West in her end-of-term narration, she gave many details about his upbringing but concluded with “He became a great painter, and I’ve heard he was very good.” Momfail for not pulling the picture study together, but I do think it was worthwhile to read the book, as we learned about Quakers and colonial life, and we found the story and illustrations engaging.{Read more reviews of read alouds and books for kids (and adults!) on A Spirited Mind}
As part of our book club we were to read a book published the year we were born.
We received the book Benjamin West and His Cat Grimalkin in the store earlier in the week and it had been signed by Marguerite Henry and had a small picture of a cat next to her name.
When I discovered that this book had been published in 1947 I decided to read it.
It was really a Kid's Chapter book but it was well written and very informative about the artist Benjamin West.
Even with this, I enjoyed the book very much.
My plan is to reread some 'kid lit' this year, so this was my good start.
I found the Quaker language and views rather refreshing.
The Quaker's had no pictures.
"A man's deeds are fixed in the hearts of his friends.
Not his fleshly image on a canvas." "Necessity can sharpen the wits even of children." Not only did West have physical limitations as he became an artist (no paints and paint brushes, but a whole mindset against the need for art.
I appreciated the statement of West's father as Benjamin developed his skills: "To preserve good actions on paper can do no harm."
We loved this book! There are tons of great jumping off points for a history lesson too - I love how she really steeped the dialogue and vocabularly in the time period. And it has a great cat in it - great for us.
One of the few Henry books I did not read in childhood (maybe that's the problem?), this was a sweet little story, but the setting/main character/plot didn't leave a huge impression on me. I did love the cat, of course.
Great kids' book. We love biographies that teach people who have not just done great things, but who were also good people.
I love to read books like this to my children. It is inspiring to see how Benjamin West developed his talent and wowed so many people.
I think every elementary student should have the opportunity to read this story. Good descriptions of the history for Native American, early American, and Quaker life.
I love this book. My mom read it to us when we were kids and I read it to my boys.
We read this book over a year ago, the kids and I really enjoyed it. It came with our Beautiful Feet pkg of books.
This is a wonderful children's book. It captures the childhood of Benjamin West in a delightful way.
Delightful book about the "Father of American Painting."
my mom read this to me when I was little. I can't even begin to describe how much I love it. it's at turns whimsical and heartwarming. I can't wait to read it to my son.
I LOVE it!!!
Read as a child.
I don't know why but I really loved this one about the painter Benjamin West. The kids liked it too.
very old book and very old fashioned, so hard to read.
very cute story! I want to find out more about Benjamin West!
Simply a sweet story and a very enjoyable read.
Known for her horse stories, Marguerite Henry obviously knew nothing about cats.
Cats do not snuff candles with their paws, herd cattle or sheep, or do any of the other feats of wonder that Henry attributes to the one in this...fantasy.
Very little is explained about the Quakers, though the Society of Friends is still comparatively little known today and might have made interesting reading.
She dwells on West's American childhood (though in those days it was an English colony), and cuts off the story just as he goes to the Big City to study painting--just as things started to get interesting!
I never read this one as a kid, but my dad lost my old books so I recently bought a Marguerite Henry box set that includes this book.Benjamin West is a 7- to 8-year-old Quaker boy a day's ride outside of Philadelphia.
Grimalkin accompanies Benjamin from his first attempt at drawing, learning to use pigments from the Native Americans, meet important people in Philadelphia, and ultimately winning him a future outside conventional Quaker rules.
However, since it focuses on that first year or so, I kept feeling like I was still reading the first few chapters of a book--it didn't feel progressive.
We read this book as part of our history curriculum. I especially enjoyed seeing how Benjamin West's parents interacted with him regarding his gift of painting when they, as Quakers, thought art was needless, but could see that their son clearly had a gift. My kids were especially inspired by Benjamin's creativity in finding ways to paint through making paint from the earth and paintbrushes from the fur of his cat Grimalkin. It's a sweet story and offers an interesting look into the life of Quakers in this time period and into the story of a famous painter.
