https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/90886.The_Man_in_the_Gray_Flannel_Suit
Book Circle Reads 158Rating: 4* of fiveThe Publisher Says: Here is the story of Tom and Betsy Rath, a young couple with everthing going for them: three healthy children, a nice home, a steady income.
I ought to be at work now....Money, Tom thought.
A man's work should be his pleasure---I shouldn't expect anything more.Tom Rath has just been to see the overcrowded public school his daughters have to attend because, unlike his own father, he can't afford to put them in a private school.
One thing I thought was really interesting: The man character, Tom Rath, is trying to get ahead in his career.
His big break comes when he's asked to write a speech for the head of a broadcasting network, who is trying to build a foundation for mental health.
Tom drafts several bland versions of the speech, all while having traumatic flashbacks to his time as a paratrouper.
No one in the book ever makes the connection that the mental health foundation could be used to treat the thousands of men coming back from war with major issues.
Clearly, the author's own war experiences made him, soaking right into the marrow of his novel; although I've read that Wilson wrote the book for his wife, it nonetheless reads like some kind of personal exorcism.
After the fireworks of the first half, where Tom comes across as one messed-up former GI having no end of trouble trying to settle into civilian life, even after the best part of a decade - after all that we get a thoroughly disappointing second half which, if not exactly phony, is certainly too pat, with all kinds of distractions and sideplots that have little direct bearing on the travails of Tom. In direct contrast to the intensity and fierce focus of the first half - where Tom was the sole proprietor of the novel - the author spreads himself out in the second half and spreads himself far too thin in the process.
El éxito de esta novela quizá sea el personaje de Rath, con el que todos nos podemos identificar en un momento u otro.
Todos buscamos la felicidad, todos tratamos de hacer las cosas lo mejor posible aunque no siempre salgan como esperamos."Sólo los masoquistas pueden vivir sin retocar sus recuerdos."He sentido angustia, en el matiz actual relacionado con el éxito, esto es, que todos necesitamos dinero, bienes, trabajo y familia para alcanzar el punto óptimo de felicidad que se valora hoy en día.
Que cualquier tropezón que nos impida llegar a ello, de uno u otro modo siempre es un fracaso.https://lahierbaroja.wordpress.com/20...
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
I didn't think I was going to like this book to be honest, but I was pleasantly surprised by how sucked into the story I was. I really liked the vibe and the insight into the 1950s! It is really crazy to draw the comparisons between then and now, I don't think the majority of today's world could handle what happened in the everyday back then.Great Read!!
America anni ’50.
Tom Rath e la moglie Betsy sono inquieti e, benché non se lo confessino, si sta lentamente facendo largo in loro la sensazione di non essere soddisfatti né l’uno dell’altro, né della vita che conducono.In lui, affiorano i ricordi della guerra, non finita da molto, e di un passato che comincia a riconsiderare, perché lo ha troppo frettolosamente accantonato.
Infine, riusciranno a parlarsi e a trovare una via d’uscita.Bella la prima parte, dove si sviluppa la presa di coscienza di una sorta di “separazione” psicologica tra i due coniugi, ma troppo frettoloso il finale, quando i nodi sono ormai venuti al pettine, che avrebbe meritato un maggior approfondimento e non la rapida e troppo ottimistica chiusa, che tarpa un po’ le ali a una narrazione che avrebbe potuto offrire assai di più.
They drank a lot of cocktails in the 1950's.
It is an enjoyable and moving five-star work.The basics of the novel--a combat veteran haunted by memories of the men he killed, and by the brief, desperate love he found in Italy, tries to turn his mousy career and his dispirited marriage around by joining the "rat race"--are familiar to anyone who has seen the film, so there is little need to cover them here.
Tom Rath in the end has nothing to hide, and for the first time in years he feels not cynical and bitter but happy, within himself and within his marriage.
“El hombre del traje gris” hace una radiografía de la vida en los suburbios durante los años 50 del mismo modo que la hizo John Cheever, pero Sloan Wilson no es tan amargo y pesimista, y en lugar de poner émfasis en las insatisfacciones y la frustración, prefiere centrarse en los esfuerzos que hace el protagonista para conseguir un equilibrio que le permita ser moderadamente feliz.
La novela se termina, pero uno tiene la sensación que la lucha por conseguir el equilibrio de Tom Wrath no se acabará jamás; las dificultades y las pequeñas frustraciones durarán toda la vida.
Betsy tiene una energía que para mí las quisiera yo, además de ser una optimista irredenta, en claro contraste a la insulsez y falta de expectativas de Tom. Tom consigue un nuevo trabajo, mejor remunerado, que hace que Betsy pueda permitirse en soñar con una vida mejor.
Con el cambio de trabajo, Tom se reencuentra con una parte de su vida anterior, la que transcurrió en Italia en plena guerra, y eso le inquieta; como también le inquieta el cambio de trabajo, las posibilidades de triunfar en él, los problemas que le puede acarrear el viejo criado de su abuela.
This was especially true in the beginning of the book, as it took a while for the plot to get moving—relatively speaking.
And to be quite frank, they’re not exactly doing a great job of it.
But, I guess that’s why I stuck with it.
But, the overarching themes of financial insecurity, corporate ethics and personal fulfillment still rang true, sometimes almost painfully so.Would I recommend this book to a friend?
I guess it depends on the friend.
Not exactly a ringing endorsement, I know… but there is an audience for this book out there.
This book was recommended to me as being "something every Mad Men fan should read." It has similar themes, but was ineptly written. About 2/3rds of the book's bulk is comprised of characters either A) talking to each other, or B) thinking out loud. You start to appreciate the old writing class cliche about "show me, don't tell me."If you want some 50s angst, check out Sylvia Plath's "The Bell Jar." It touches many of the same issues, and is about a million times better than this book in every respect.
Really enjoyed his writing style. Some people compare main character to Don Draper but I find Tom Rath to be a much more likeable person.
The Man in the Gray Flannel Suit, published the year I was born, was a great commentary on the struggles of a young couple uncertain about their future. Having spent my career in PR, I especially enjoyed the drama associated with the CEO's speech that was so prominent in the first half of the book. It rang true. Everybody in the hierarchy piles on their edits and suggestions so eventually the speech is filled with buzzwords and hyperbole that mean absolutely nothing and are inauthentic for the intended audience.
"Um ato a mais de brutalidade não faria o mundo acabar. Mas eu não vou fazer isso. Não posso fazer nada pelo mundo, mas posso colocar minha própria vida em ordem".Um livraço sobre responsabilidade e escolhas difíceis. Humorado sem ser tolo; sentimental sem ser piegas. A influência sobre Mad Men é imensa.A edição brasileira d'A Girafa dispõe de um belo projeto gráfico, com leitura agradável. Infelizmente, contém várias pequenas falhas de revisão.
Rath es, más allá de la trama en sí, lo mejor del libro por la forma que ha elegido el autor de llevar al persoaje
Such a frustrating read, loads of potential that gets bogged down in just too much going on, too many characters with too many off shooting narratives for such a short book. The ending felt rushed and far too pat, given the final thirty pages. There are monumental shifts in circumstances and startling admissions that take place, which make the ending problematic and seems more like what a philandering male's ideal attitude of his wife should be--even for the 1950's it is just not realistic.
Don't understand how this one has passed me by for so long! Wonderful depiction of 1950s America and the difficulties one "ordinary" man has to adjusting to life after his experiences in the war. Very evocative and atmospheric of the time and place, although sometimes the characterisation is a bit wooden. However, Tom Rath, the main protagonist, is unforgettable.
I didn't care for this one. It addresses middle-class dissatisfactions similar to those explored in Revolutionary Road, but Sloan Wilson's treatment is dry and pedestrian. Perhaps it just takes a tortured soul like Dick Yates to approach these issues in a dramatically memorable way. Skip this one and go for the depth. Read Yates instead.
This book brought to mind a recurring theme of the post 1945 era, that of wanting something good and noble to materialise from the efforts and heartbreaks of those who lived through the horrors of war.
The film closely follows the novel in plot, but I'd give Gregory Peck the credit for revealing more of the interior life of Thomas Rath than the book achieves. Glad I read it, but in this case the film is superior.
Quick easy fiction. 1950s piece about morality of advancement and struggles of the salaryman. A happy ending, for once!
A classic and deservedly so.
Super duper satisfying!
Excellent.
Usually it is re-ported to be of value for what concerns the author had for suburbia and conformism and the significance of gray flannel suits.
There is acknowledgement within the novel that Tom has four worlds - grandma, WWII, United Broad-casting, and his family.
Along the lines of missed opportunities, only from my perspective, I realize long past the author's creative concerns then dominant, is a slight mention of United Broadcasting showing programs as bad as radio, only in it for the money and not to improve people's minds.
He spends so little time with his family that his wife threatens to sue him for desertion and in one telling encounter demands that he treat his daughter with the same care and attention he gives to his business projects.Hopkins's daughter, a silly young woman who will inherit a fortune without doing anything to earn it, echoes Tom's grandmother, who lived a life of wealth and entitlement without every having to work a day in her life.
Tom, the lead character, finds himself in a quandary: at the age of 33, with a wife, three kids, and increasing worries about making ends meet, he has increasing trouble coming to terms with his experiences in World War II and fitting into post-war suburban Connecticut while running the rat race every day to and from New York City -- something far too many men endured but no one talked about back in the 1950s, when the book was published.
I suppose if it had been more bloated, I would have become as frustrated with it as the other door-stops that overstayed their welcome, but I really enjoyed spending time with the Raths, and I wish my time with them hadn't been so brief.Before I read this book, I watched the movie, and before I read the movie, I read numerous reviews and comments that referenced the similarities between this and Mad Men. I never watched Mad Men, but the perception I had of it, of a bunch of ad execs constantly drinking cocktails as they claw their way to the top, was not something that particularly appealed to me, so I was hesitant to visit this story.
