https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/84154.Seize_the_Night
Here is my impersonation of Acheron in this book:*in my best Acheron voice*What? You're dead? Not on my watch. Here... have a little immortality. Oh, you too? You can be immortal now, too. Oh... your sister is immortal, so you should be immortal also. Ahh... but not that sister. She's going to stay dead. But, you over there... yeah, you're not going to stay dead either. You're immortal, too. But, not your mother. I'm afraid I'm going to let her stay dead. Where's my Simi?
This was surprisingly awesome. I still owe my bff for making me watch Gladiator. I've had a thing for Roman generals ever since. Ah those glorious crazy Romans…
“Love isn't easy. Anyone who says differently is lying to you. But it is worth fighting for.”  As for me, Seize the Night is one of the best books of 2012. It is the 6th book of the Dark-Hunter Universe series, the story of Tabitha and Valerius.The story is just perfect, I loved it! It is filled with unforgettable characters, incomparable romance, mesmerizing erotica, real drama and tragic losses, vicious and powerful antagonists, witty and deep dialogues, sparkling humor, forceful emotions, t
It is the 6th book of the Dark-Hunter Universe series, the story of Tabitha and Valerius.The story is just perfect, I loved it!
It is filled with unforgettable characters, incomparable romance, mesmerizing erotica, real drama and tragic losses, vicious and powerful antagonists, witty and deep dialogues, sparkling humor, forceful emotions, thrilling and dynamic action.The romance What I liked the most was the development of the relationship of Tabitha and Valerius.
From their first encounter, throughout the story, Valerius is continuously stunned by her actions, intelligence, kindness, and unbiased attitude.
Valerious Magnus (Hunter) and Tabitha Devereaux (Human) "What's wrong, Valerious?"she wispered, rising to stand before him."I'm just trying to understand why you’re with me.""Because I like you""Why?"She bit her lip seductively before she shrugged.
"You don't feel cold to me, General." Recommended song when you read the book: "Can't Help Falling in Love" by ElvisRecommended snacks when you read the book: Barbecue dishes and pizza Valerious aka Val is Roman or used to be Roman, when he was human.
And she really really likes Val.The tragic and sad events and the funny events in this book have a great balance between them.
This is basically all you need to know about this book.
(or series).To say I am hugely disappointed is an understatement.So far I've noticed the books get worse and worse as the series moves along, but call me an idiot, I still decided to read them all because I am DETERMINED to get to Acheron's book.What disappointed me here:**spoilers ahead**The main couple.
So she decides to defend his poor beautiful hide from all those horrible people who don't see his looks as they should.
The first half of the book we get lots of sex from the main couple and them thinking about the other one's looks.
I don't get the hatred of Valerius.
He is the brother to Zared who did try to help him.
Yes he failed miserably, but he was not vicious towards him, nor did he know he was his brother.
Since he looks just like granddad I can see why Kyrian does not want to look at his pretty face.
But the violence and hatred just seems so ridiculous.I did not like Tabitha in earlier books and did not find her much better in this one.
I did not like Valerius much either.
ESTOY TOTALMENTE TRAUMADA CON ESTA SERIEDije que lo dejaría hasta aquí y no se si pueda cumplirlo ne
This was an adult paranormal romance, set in New Orleans.I felt quite sorry for Valerius in this; the things he had been through were terrible, and the way people treated him, just because of who his grandfather was, was awful.
Tabitha on the other hand said whatever come into her head, and was a little irritating at times.
There was quite a lot of tension though, with Tabitha being Amanda’s twin sister, and Valerius being the grandson of the man who tortured Amanda’s husband Kyrian.The ending to this was okay, but this was probably my least favourite of the series so far.6 out of 10
This is the book that forever shatters the Dark Hunter world...Wow the plot was Amazing...it was mix with a lot of actions and romance, and they didn't overlap each other...problems arises in just a snap yet they were solve too, it would leave your heart ache for the characters and some went crushing along, it made me cry to many times in the book and the romance squeal I'm so happy with the story so much! "...I guess I feel like all of us misfits need to hang together. At least that way we don'
For me they are the best couple in the series...it wasn't insta lust not even instant love yet there was an attraction between them gahh call it sexual tension, with all the stolen kisses sigh I love every moment of it...They met when Tabitha was fighting the Daimons(soul sucking vampires), when Valerius tried to help her, she didn't notice that he was not one them, because of the fangs lol:) so at first they fight with words as no one wants to back down, they tend to agree to disagree but Val always surrender though, he's just sweet...
Re-Read: October 2015I freaking love these books!!! Seriously, each one gets better and better! I loved everything about Valerius and Tabby's story.I want to live in a world with Dark Hunters. I imagine Kyrian, Acheron, Talon, and Valerius are just hanging out like a hot bunch like these guys.
I’ve been hearing mention of this name since book one in Sherrilyn Kenyon’s Dark-Hunter series.
By the end of this book, I was totally in love with Valerius.
This little development were Nick is concerned makes you think “OMG…Nick?…A what?…And…whoa!” I can’t wait to see where his new adventure takes him.I am loving this series.
(I know I’m one of the last people on the planet to read these…let’s not talk about that.) I am finding myself being pulled into this fabulous world that Sherrilyn Kenyon has created more and more and although I’ve met many already, I can’t wait to fully get to know the characters in the following books.
I have read every book in the Dark-Hunter series and prior to reading "Seize the Night", my favorite story was Zarek's in "Dance With The Devil".
*grin This man was sooo sensitive.
However, I was very impressed by the fact that Artemis didn't bestow any extra powers on her Roman Dark-Hunters.
What infuriated me, yet managed to touch me was the fact that Valerius never stood up for himself.
In fact, she is my favorite so far.
Darker than most of the other books in this series, I'd have to say hands-down, this was by far the best!
Si hasta solté unos lagrimones al final de esta novela.
Sin duda, Valerio Magno es uno de los Cazadores Oscuros más particulares en todo lo que va de la saga y su compañera no se queda atrás.
Me gustó mucho el giro que toma la serie, en el sentido de que hasta ahora siempre se intuía que por más feas que se pusieran las cosas, los personajes principales eran intocables e iban a llegar a un buen final.
Sin embargo, en esta entrega hay que enfrentar algunas pérdidas que resultan bastante dolorosas y emotivas.
Destaca también por ser uno de los libros de más acción hasta ahora.
OMG I loved this one love val and tabby love that Kyrian ran in and stabbed val lol!!!!!!! I think this is my fav so far
Two in a roll, oh my! I'm on a roll with this series!I loved this book! LOVED.
One of my all time fav in this series so much happening and u learn so much more about all of the cast of the books five out of five
She is beautiful but has a long scar on one side of her face from an angry demon she fought.Tabitha is a very brash, aggressive, and crass person - the complete opposite of the refined, stoic, regal Roman general Valerius.
You know, Valerius wants Italian food - Tabitha ends up cooking him pasta shaped like little penises (penii?).
Sometimes I really feel like Kenyon is pushing this opposite thing too far....But on the other hand, I found myself liking both protagonists, in Tabitha's case almost against my will.
Things are getting pretty exciting and fun, when Valerius blurts out:"Do you sleep with all the Dark-Hunters?"She stiffened.
“Life is serious.”“No, life is an adventure. It's thrilling and scary. Sometimes it's even a bit boring, but it should never be serious.” OMG!! 6 shining stars!!! I freaking loved this book and can’t believe everything that happened! My mind is still reeling. I love Tabitha… LOVE her! We have seen her a few times throughout the series so far, and when I realised that she was going to be matched with Valerius… OH YEAH!!! Valerius refers to her as a “brazen temptress, vampire slayer, complete unc
She is an absolute free spirit who knows what she wants and is not afraid to take it – and to hell with what anybody else thinks (this makes for some sensational verbal sparring).
As we got to know him more in this book, I absolutely fell in love.
His friendship with Tabby is gorgeous, and I just love when she watches him at the start of the book and thinks to herself...
We get a bit of a glimpse into his private world this time around, but the question still needs to be asked – What the hell is he???And then there’s Nick.
I loved Dance with the Devil!!Let's see how this turns out. I am such a mess. I've been thinking about going to the bookstore and buying this book for a few days now. What do you know, past-me already knew this day was about to come: i just saw this sitting on my bookshelf today. I don't even now for how many months it's been sitting there. And it's not even the first something like this happened to me. What's wrong with me?!
And I was glad I did, I really liked Night Play, but I loved this one and it has to be my favorite out of the whole series so far.Seize the Night is about Tabitha (the crazy twin sister of Amanda that we hear so much about) and Valerius (Kyrian’s worst enemy, the grandson of the man that crucified him.
That is them in a sentence.The writing always captivated me, probably why I like the all her books; the writing always keeps me interested.My favorite out of the series, I loved this one the most!
Valerio, que manía te tenía desde el libro de Zarek, era personal ya sabes, para mi Zarek es y será el mejor de todos los cazadores oscuros.Como dice el dicho, el lobo siempre será el malo si solo escuchamos a Caperucita.
Esto me hizo mucha gracia, porque todos los cazadores que he leído hasta ahora, o bien son morteros, con pinta punk, cuero, pero no con abrigos de cachemira, vestidos de Armani.
She realizes he is a Dark Hunter and takes him home to nurse him back to health, where Ash finds him.
actually, it's Tabby, but that works too...As Tabitha gets to know Valarius, she starts to feel sorry for him because nobody likes him.
Sheesh, your people crucify a few people and suddenly you're the bad guy!So, Tabitha realizes that nobody likes Valarius and becomes his champion.
She freaks out on Otto for calling him Count Penicula, and yet she got mad at Valarius for not wanting to eat beefaroni out of a can and served him penis-shaped pasta as revenge.Shut up and eat your penises!Their love story was boring and stupid.
Me ha gustado la novela porque la he visto más trabajada y con esto me refiero a que además de ese romance entre personas tan dispares como el altivo Valerio y la pasional de Tabitha, se desarrollan tramas con otros personajes como por ejemplo con Nick que me dejó superintrigada y apuntando leerme sus crónicas (por favor, que nos las publiquen ya en español); a Aquerón (de él ya no mucho puesto que ya tengo leído su libro); con Simi...
Luego tenemos las apariciones de los incondicionales: Kirian y Amanda; Grace y Julian; Selena; Vane y Bride; Zarek y otros nuevos como Otto.La primera parte me pareció bastante divertida, el romance también algo fresco puesto que son personajes tan dispares Valerio y Tabitha que al final gustan y más él porque tiene una faceta de misterio por así decirlo.
Seize the Night is the Dark-Hunter story of Valerius and Tabitha.
When I realized this story would be of Valerius and Tabitha, I was somewhat bummed.
All of the Dark-Hunters, especially Kyrian and Julian, despise Valerius so that he is more alone now than he was when mortal.Everything changed...When Tabitha stabbed him."You are worthless.
Mistaking Valerius for a Daimon or a lawyer, she accidentally stabs him.
Patrolling the streets for Daimons, running from a scary ghost that leaves chills running along her skin, and submitting to the explosive and delicious passion between each other, Tabitha and Valerius will leave you smiling.
Uno de los más esperados a la hora de releerlo.
Este es uno de los mejores libro dentro de la saga, tanto por la pareja principal, como por la información del mundo de los Dark Hunters que se da, y por todos los sucesos que se dan dentro de la novela. Pasan muchas cosillas que te dejan al borde del colapso, en serio pensé que Kenyon nos iba a descargar el kokoro con ciertas escenas... Where are you Nick??
After everything Valerius suffered in his human life he has gone through centuries of exile from his fellow Dark-Hunters, they don't trust him and nobody willingly spends time with him so it is no wonder that he has developed such a bad attitude.Tabitha is the first person to see through his defences to the vulnerable man underneath.
The two of them are complete opposites in a lot of ways, where Valerius is very buttoned up and acts like he has a stick up his ass Tabitha is much more fun loving.
She likes to have fun, doesn't take life too seriously and takes great pleasure in shocking Valerius with her actions.
What did I think of this book - I ABSOLUTELY LOVED IT!Tabitha is hilarious, Val was as sexy as hell! It was just a brilliant story, kept me hooked the whole way through. I love how you still get to hear all about the other Dark Hunters in each of these stories especially Ash as I just can't wait to get to his story!I really need to be reading another series but I'm just chomping at the bit to start the next DH book - love, love, loving this series!!
Although this book had less technical flaws than the others, I didn't necessarily enjoy it more. The relationship was believable. Valarious (spelling) was fantastic, I don't know... the ending left me puzzled. Where was the tie in for the next book? Anyway, it was a good read.
