https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/106264.Sarah_Plain_and_Tall
In the same way as the mad woman in the attic in Jane Eyre has her story unfolded in the Wide Sargasso Sea, I feel a book that tells of Sarah and what there was in her life that drove her to reply to an advertisement for a wife and mother in a place very far from home is a story waiting to be told.
The writing is simple, ideal for a child, but the book, the central mystery of Sarah, makes it just as interesting for an adult.I loved this little book.
It's based on a true story about the author's ancestors.* There are a lot of mail order bride romances out there, but this is one from the children's point of view, although you catch fascinating glimpses of what's going on in the minds of their father Jacob, and Sarah, his potential bride.Anna and Caleb are two young children who in the U.S. plains with their widowed father, in maybe the late 1800s?
But they couldn't.Now Jacob has advertised for a mail order wife, and Sarah Wheaton from Maine, who describes herself as "plain and tall," writes a letter to him.
Captures the many emotions of starting a new life while still remembering the old. A short and simple yet tender and touching story.

Patricia did some amazing character development for such a short story. With this, you are in and you're out. A family lost their mother and Sarah answers an ad in the paper. They write letters back and forth. Sarah goes from Maine to the plains. The kids love Sarah. There is a big Squall to be the big piece of this book.It was a quick, enjoyable read. If you loved Little house on the Prairie, then you need to read this too. Great for 3rd and 4th grade readers.
5★Warm and fuzzy story told by Anna, about her father seeking a wife and mother for them and her little brother, Caleb in the 1800s.
Widowed many years ago after the birth of young Caleb, Jacob realises it’s time to find a wife and mother so advertises for one, as his neighbour did so successfully.He receives a reply from Sarah, a girl in Maine, who wants to move from the home she’s shared with her brother so he and his new wife can have it to themselves.
He and Anna both exchange letters with Sarah, who agrees to come for a month’s visit.
I have loved this sweet story since I saw the Hallmark movie starring Glenn Close and Christopher Walken back in the early 90's.
I now have a rule that before I can watch a film adaptation, I have to read the book first.
I don't often read sentimental stories like this, but I'm glad I took the time to enjoy this one.
Just a beautiful story!There are actually 5 books in the Sarah, Plain and Tall series.
But I have never read the other books.
I can't wait to read the rest of the series!I listened to the audiobook version of this story.
The story describes how a young family who are suffering the loss of the mother following childbirth a few years previously meets someone new who comes in to their lives as a potential wife/mother.
The description of the the book says that the father advertises for a wife, I think describing Sarah as a mail-order wife and that Sarah answers this advert and comes for a months trial.
I would love to read more about this family and hope the following books live up to this one.
by Andrea Renee CoxAw! This story is so sweet every time. Will I cry each time I read it? Probably. It's just that sweet. (And I'm a bit of a weeper when it comes to those types of stories.) Sarah is such a fun and spunky heroine. I love how great she is with the kids. Now I want to dig out my movie version and watch Glenn Close as Sarah, plain and tall. She always makes me smile in that role.I was not compensated for my honest review.
I know it's hard to believe, but the book was sweeter than the movie; which, ironically, I actually wasn't expecting.
The book is, after all, only 67 pages and I wasn't aware that such character development and likableness could occur in such a short span of time.
It somehow made Anna and Caleb more endearing with their one-word repetitive replies.It's a quick little read, but one that shouldn't be forgotten or missed for family reading time.Ages: 6 - 10Cleanliness: nothing to note.**Like my reviews?
These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't.
“The dogs loved Sarah first.”Years ago someone recommended this children’s book to me, and I’m sorry I waited so long to read it. Not a hint of condescension in here; just beautifully evocative simplicity.“Gophers ran back and forth across the road, stopping to stand up and watch the wagon. Far off in a field a woodchuck ate and listened. Ate and listened.”It’s a touching, feel-good story, but much more: strong characters, subtle emotions, a well-drawn setting, and threads of tension carrying it along. Perfect for readers of any age, and I loved it.
This is a sweet story that I loved when I read it as a small child and loved again when I read it a year or two ago. It's really simple and easy to understand, but there are subtle things that I didn't catch when I was little that I caught when I read it more recently ... so I think it's good for all ages, not just children. :)
My mother is a retired librarian, and this was one of the books she recommended most frequently for young readers.
Anna and Caleb live on the prairie with their papa.
Sarah comes from Maine for a one-month trial period to see if she and Papa might want to marry.
As the trial period progresses, Anna and Caleb fall ever more in love with Sarah.
They're watching Papa, too, hoping he'll be as fond of Sarah as they are.This story is a model of perfect simplicity.
Read it and you, too, might fall in love with Sarah.
I'd forgotten all about this gem, until I saw someone elses review on here..I loved this and so did my daughter.
Can we say overrated?
This is supposed to be one of the greatest classics in Children's Literature, and the winner of the Newbery in 1986.
There's no character development...no action...just a bunch of waiting around for some kind of story to develop.I can summarize this story with these questions and answers coming from the snot-nosed, little children in the novel: "Will we have a mother?
Will Sarah come?
Will she like me?
Will she stay?
Yes." Boring.
Thank God Glenn Close made the character somewhat more tolerable in the made-for-TV version of this book.
If I had to read this again, I think I'd KILL myself.
3.5 starsThis was a sweet tale about loss, love, and family.
Fact #1: My car is gray & I named it Seal, after Sarah's cat. Fact #2: I am an übernerd.
This is my absolute favorite book.
You know how it is with me and favorites.
I have lost count of how many times I've read this little gem of a book.
Every sentence is perfect and adds to the story.
The prose is spare and perfect.
I love this book!I've lost count of how many times I have read it.
Some time ago I found it as a recorded book with Glenn Close as the reader.
She is the perfect narrator.
Glenn Close produced and starred as Sarah in the Hallmark Hall of Fame version.
I saw a reference to this book in a "Books of the Century" list and realized I hadn't ever read it or watched the TV movies with Glenn Close.
Here's what I suggest.
When you're feeling in the mood for gentle, authentic uplift, go get this book, give yourself 20 minutes -- which is all it will take you to read it -- and immerse yourself in the story of how Caleb and Anna and their father wait to see if Sarah from Maine will become their second wife and mother.
Classic literature remains and endures through time. Sarah, Plain and Tall is one of those classics that will endure. Written in a simple style that imitates the simple life people lived while farming the frontier of America, this book is a poignant reminder of the hardships endured by families in that era. It touches on lives affected by death, by loss, by separation. It shows a young boy worried about new separation. And it shows how a grown woman deals with separation in her own way. Beautifully written.
What a beautiful, simple book. A charming, yet real look at life settling the west, and one family who desperately needs a mother.
A matter-of-fact woman becomes a mail order bride and changes the life of a young family. Gentle, subtle, sweet.
This is was such a sweet little story!! Very quick read!For some reason, I had no idea this was a series??? So now I'm going to have to go through and read all of the books. XDThe writing was very simple in this book, but I loved it! 5 stars!
It seemed strange to me that someone would write a middle grade book about a father putting an ad in the paper for a new wife/mother for his children.
They are learning about history, but because of the casual, story-book styled tone, they are having fun learning about history.
The story has an honest tone as it shows that even with Sarah around, the children still miss their mother.
The text teaches a lesson – that it is okay to accept change and it is okay to still even miss things, but it does not come off as being too preachy (McLachlan 45-46; 65).
My Harry Potter loving daughter thought I was crazy to suggest a book she could probably read in an hour, and I admit I agreed, thinking she was too advanced a reader and we should have looked for it 2 yrs.
So today, I sat down for 30 minutes and happily finished it up.It is hard to explain the joy I felt in the simplicity of this tale.
So beautifully, quietly, maturely romantic in how this strong woman and these lonely children and this quiet man slowly and surely won each other's hearts.
And honest, if sometimes boring, love.I recommend this book for everyone, not just little girls.
I am plain and tall.” – Sarah, Plain and TallFor me, this book was a case of expectations being much different from reality.
I thought we’d find out what motivated Sarah to leave everything behind and become a mother to a family she’s never met.
Everything happens easily; the adults don’t have any emotional baggage; and everyone is thrilled with the changes.The suspense in the story comes from Anna worrying that Sarah will leave.
The best part of the book is how realistically the author captures Anna’s grief for her mother and fear of being abandoned by Sarah.
My 2nd Grade teacher had read Sarah, Plain and Tall to my class, and all I remember is being bored out of my mind.
I want to be Sarah so bad, and live in this book for the rest of my days.
Or just live out my own life with Sarah in mind; she is brave, kind, loving, adventurous, headstrong.
(on a similar note: i need to adopt some chickens, grow a garden, and put little flowers in my braided hair)"And I slept, dreaming a perfect dream.
And Sarah was happy."SOME COVER NOTES:
It perfectly captures the book, and that's exactly how I picture Sarah (but also Glenn Close...
Many quality children's books are this way: we aren't emotionally ready for them when they're foisted on us in childhood; we can only appreciate them when we're older, when we've experienced all the different flavors of loneliness.
I'm grateful to this article for reminding me of this book's existence, inspiring me to give it another go; some time soon, I hope also to revisit Little Town on the Prairie (a childhood favorite, mostly for the blood-pounding "Miss Wilder, if you want that seat rocked faster, I'll rock it for you!" civil disobedience scene).
I loved this book (and its film adaptation) as a kid. Sarah was a hard worker, a loveable and unforgettable character who changes the way Caleb and Anna see the world. An excellent novel and one of the best children's chapter books I've ever read.
Incredibly concise and understated, with so much going on between the lines. Very well written - I enjoyed it as much as my daughter. All 5 books in this series are good, but this first one, and the final one (Grandfather's Dance) are exceptional.
