https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/70100.If_it_Die_
Si le Grain ne Meurt = If it Die..., André Gide تاریخ نخستین خوانش: بیست و سوم ماه آگوست سال 1994 میلادیعنوان: اگر دانه نمیرد؛ نویسنده: آندره ژید؛ مترجم: همایون نوراحمر؛ تهران، نیلوفر، 1372؛ در 278 ص؛ شابک: 9644480120؛ چاپ دوم 1382؛ چاپ سوم 1386؛ موضوع: نویسندگان فرانسه قرن 20 ماتوبیوگرافی نویسنده، آندره ژید در این کتاب واقعیات زندگی خود را بی پرده بیان کرده است. ا. شربیانی
That little Arab boy left him in a state of "passionate jubilation."Published in 1920, two decades after "The Immoralist," Gide offers his back-story.
Gide, a founder in 1909 of the influential Le Nouvel Revue Francaise, was disarmingly frank in a world where hypocrisy reigned.
Though some of the writing and memories here are clotted, you appreciate his candor and erudition.
You also appreciate his personal and literary audacity.Coming from a strong Protestant background, he says God himself would surely loathe a uniformity of nature and any teaching that tried to subdue it.
I find the whole genre of biography and autobiography fairly boring, but this was kinda fun. The first half was pretty dry, but really established Gide's character as a child (dreamer). The second half was a lot more interesting. I knew from checking wikipedia (after infering it from my read of the Immoralist) that Gide was into boys, but it's quite another thing to read about him picking them up with Oscar Wilde.
Al menos nos queda el consuelo de ver a Oscar Wilde ejerciendo de alcahueta en Argelia o de leer las estremecedoras declaraciones de Bosie Douglas acerca de la belleza del hijo mayor del mismo Wilde, a quien pensaba beneficiarse.
Las descripciones y reflexiones sobre el norte de África también se degustan con placer.Un libro éste que sólo llega a disfrutarse verdaderamente hacia el final.
Nos quedamos con las ganas de saber más acerca de ese trágico matrimonio blanco que contrajo con su prima Madeleine.
The events described wouldn't be nearly as interesting if written by a mediocre writer, but gide isn't that. He goes about his story, descibing his life by impression and memories, in no particular order other than how important they were to him at the time. It reads beautifully. It's worth reading steadily through, if you want the full impression. Otherwise, it's easy to lose track of what he's been expanding on.
در واقع کتاب اتوبیوگرافی ست اما نه یک اتوبیوگرافی کامل. ژید مقطعی از زندگی خودش رو به صورت وقایعی که بعضا ترتیب وقوع اونها رعایت نشده نشون داده که این برای من کسل کننده بود انقدر که فکر میکردم اگه در مورد زندگی آنا خدمتکارشون مطلبی میخوندم برام جذاب تر بود.
آنها بودند که سبب شدند تا حقیقت این حرف نیچه را حس کنم: " هر هنرمندی نه تنها هوش خود را، بلکه هوش دوستانش را نیز در اختیار دارد."" پیوسته باید این امکان وجود داشته باشد که کار یک مولف را در یک فرمول ساده خلاصه کرد.
همه چیز بستگی به آن دارد."با صدایی ناشی از عصبانیت شدید، با لکنت گفتم: " ما همه باید نقشمان را بازی کنیم."اگر توضیحی درباره ی فرمولم نمی دادم، واقعا احمق به نظر می آمدم.
رفته رفته برایم روشن می شد که شاید وظیفه برای همگان یکسان نیست، و احتمالا حتی خداوند نیز از یکسانی و یک جور بودن که تمامی طبیعت نسبت به آن در تضاد است، نفرت داشته باشد.
But, from a literary point of view, this is not as important as the thought that without his writings the world would be a poorer place.As a youth I holidayed in Morocco and, although I hadn’t read Gide yet, I did cast a curious eye on a blue eyed native who attached himself limpet like to our party in the hope of financial gain.
Had Madame Gide accompanied her son to Morocco, his experiences would no doubt have been as innocent as mine.
This would have been a great relief to Madame Gide – and a great loss to world literature.
read the Chinese translation, 如果种子不死，I felt some similar feelings while young.
"a wideish moat of some little depth"
I WANT TO CRYYYYYY
This book got extremely interesting towards the end. I only wish it would have been a bit sooner.
Very well written with touches of humour.
One example of history-in-the-making is when young Mr. Gide first recites poetry in grammar school and, having previously read poetry only to himself, is emotive in his speech.
My point is that times change, and until you reach a certain age, you may have to turn to old books to find confirmatory evidence of that fact.This autobiography was notable when it was published (1926) because Gide describes plainly his realization of his homosexuality.
Reading this in the actual book was quite an interesting experience.
In fact, the book ends with his engagement to this cousin.
Gide probeert in het boek openhartig te vertellen over zijn jeugd en zijn seksuele ontwaken.
Dat verandert in de tweede helft met zijn seksuele ontwaken.
Echter hij heeft weinig belangstelling voor het seksuele leven van zijn vrouw.
Zijn vrouw is net als zijn moeder een persoon zonder seksuele identiteit.
Dit was de titel van een eerdere vertaling.
De bedoeling van Gide was om aan te geven dat mijn zijn seksuele ontwaking zijn nieuwe leven begon.
De vertaler vreest dat de moderne lezer de bijbeltekst niet herkent en heeft voor dit alternatief gekozen: Niet als de anderen.
Gide tiene una forma de escribir muy elegante, su prosa es sutil y a veces la lectura me da la impresión de estar caminando de puntillas, tratando de pasar desapercibido, algunos temas (como el de la homosexualidad) son abordados de manera indirecta, bordeándolos con las circunstancias que los hacen posibles.
La pugna que se va desatando en la vida de Gide, entre la reivindicación de su deseo y el peso de su formación puritana y moralista, tiene como resultado momentos de desdicha pero también de felicidad sublime.
Andre Gide is an author’s author.
Fleeting thoughts, grasped at impressions, the flotsam and jetsam of waking consciousness, If It Die is akin to reading several hundred pages of a diary written after the fact; a post-dated stream of consciousness journal rather than a conscious literary work.
Of interest certainly in a few places -- Gide’s meetings with Oscar Wilde of particular note -- it is hard nonetheless to recommend this to anyone without a purely academic or literary interest.
If It Die is an account of the years before Gide became an accomplished author, an in all honesty, in these pages nothing much is accomplished.
Gide's autobiography is like very slow motion in the first parts that he recalls his "civilized" family environment.
Later on, after the trip to Africa (still not sure if it was Africa but it was like "OK the author is from the occident, and the rest is from the rest"), as Gide (the character) starts to face with his experiences and emotions and actions, things starts to get more exciting to read and more easy to relate with (for me).
The book created a desire in me to read L'immoraliste and The Counterfeiters, and use the opportunity to penetrate into Gide's mind a little bit more and let his mind to penetrate in mine.
this is at the bottom of the pile of what Gide published. If it Die… has subjects and instances already covered in his major works, like Wilde, Immortalist and the journals. it took two attempts but i finished it. read the autobiography if you ran out of Gide material. but Gide does have good books concerning autobiographical instances. his Congo travels and book concerning his wife, i cannot recall the title, are worth reading. not this book though.
Possibly the most boring and self indulgent thing I've ever read. And I read the whole damn thing as well. The bits about botany are cool, and some of the stuff in Africa, but apart from that...bleuch.
If It Die is well worth a read. If you happen across it, do not hesitate to pick it up. The prose is flowing and elegant and Gide plays lightly with language.Full review HERE.
lieliska autobiogrāfija.
Andre Gide'i iç dünyasını ortaya saçan bir kitap. Oscar Wilde'la olan ahbaplığı da bonus.
