https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/181980.In_the_Wet
I have read reviews from people who can't get past Nevil Shute's politics, and if you are a reader who wants to apply a twenty-first century political sensibility to a novel written more than sixty years ago there's plenty to get hot under the collar about.
I see this novel as being very much of its time, but also as exhibiting an eye and a hand for storytelling that I find intensely readable.The story takes us from Australia in the 1950s to Shute's imagination of what England may be like in the 1980s.
The narrative carries well, and Shute's vision of what was for him the future is believable.I enjoyed it.So. If you like a rattling good tale, give this a go.
this book in some part is slightly dated with some of the language but however in some parts its quite forward thinking as its a mixture of the present 1953 and a story of a man's future story with the political change/system and fast aircraft.
She is Queen of Canada and Queen of Australia as well as Queen of England, something that is often forgotten.One thing that Shute talks of that is worthy of some real thought - that the system of one man/one vote will not elect the best politicians, rather it is apt to elect the one who makes the most generous promises.
Every so often, Shute liked to spin one of his favorite "tricks", suddenly shifting from one situation into an entirely different time and place, with his main characters transported in some supernatural or strangely spiritual manner.
In this case, he over-reaches by speculating on a future of his own imagining and the tale is made less appealing because of Shute's decision to color it with his own off-beat political views; the fact that the future evolved in a vastly different manner than he envisioned renders it even less credible when read today.
So, this is a book for those who, like myself have a great liking for Shute and his old-fashioned style.
The man, a Australian Air Force pilot, becomes part of the Queen's Flight and participates in her saving the Commonwealth by fleeing an evil socialist government in Britain and relocating the centre of the Commonwealth of Nations to Australia, no seriously.Reading it in 2016, it is clear that In the Wet is a profoundly dated book - giving a book a bad review for that reason, however, is simply lazy - but if you are sensitive to these things prepare for retrogressive gender politics, a saturation N-bombing (the alternate future antagonist adopts the nickname 'Nigger' because of his mixed-race heritage), an obsessive fanatical monarchism and some questionable views on the value of modern democracy.
Most of the book takes place in 1983 (it was written in '53) but it took me little while to figure that out, since apparently nothing had really changed in 30 years except that airplanes go faster, and England is still under rationing, and Australia has a new political system.
(Which in this case is The Evils of Socialism, or, How Australia Is Awesome and The English Are Losers.)Still, it's by Nevil Shute, so it's crazy readable and there's lots of stuff about airplanes.
Also, it was timely with all the Queensland flooding lately, because that's what the title refers to.
time.
I would recommend it to people who are interested in reincarnation or who are into looking at books that in the story expressed prophetic (and some not so prophetic) visions of the future.brief synopsis:Written in 1952, In the Wet is situated mainly in England but starts out in Australia.
Now you could chalk this up to the fact that Stevie's totally stoned, but the strange part is that Anderson's story takes place in the future, and that a lot of things that Stevie tells just frankly haven't happened at the time in which the novel is set.So, you could argue that In the Wet is Shute's "prophecies" about England & the entire British Commonwealth.
The jacket synopsis sounded promising: mysterious old man on his deathbed tells another man his life story which impossibly takes place 30 years in the future (circa 1983).
It’s so mundane that if not for the jacket synopsis, at first you’d never know he was talking about future events unless you’re fairly well versed in Commonwealth political relations and democratic structures.
And even then, you might think he was merely making things up, not talking about the future – it’s not until he mentions specific years that you realize something is up.
A magnificent display of imagination and style in the way the narrative switches from the present to the future and returns seamlessly... makes a few key points about British politics and commonwealth relations that seems uncannily prescient but then Mr Shute's storytelling capabilities were never in doubt...
Although some of Nevil Shute's work is created using a fairly large canvas (one thinks of "A Town Like Alice," more than any other), most of his novels are simple tales about everyday life.
Never intruding on the narrative, yet masterfully keeping it in rein, he is an author whose novels have long been considered merely "popular," when in fact they are often penetrating inquiries into the meaning of life.One other characteristic of Shute's writing that is perhaps more apparent today than it was in the fifties and sixties is that his work is always set in the contemporary period of a world undergoing vast change.
I did something with this novel that I haven't done since I was in high school - I went to alternate sources for explanation of what I was reading because I got lost.
The novel starts with the rather simple (and, at the outset, rather dull) story of a priest working in Australia, and trying to get to people who need him during the wet season.
I kept saying to myself "this is Shute; there's got to be more to the story." I was right to stick with it.
The novel as a whole makes for interesting, thought-provoking reading.
Really the only thing I didn't like about the book was that it felt like the author basically made up the romance (which is probably the main thread throughout the story) in order to foist his political opinions on the reader.
I also found many of the characters very likable and I thought in particular the main character (David 'N*****' Anderson, yes that N word is the characters nickname and he is referred to as such throughout the book.
By the end I started to think of that word as just his name and am now a bit worried I might say it in reference to the book and get frowned upon.
I mentioned it to my sister who had recommended the book to me and her response was "just keep reading".
(view spoiler)[ It is hard to write an adequate review without a spoiler...as it finally dawned on me that the author wrote this book in 1951 about events that would not occur until the 1980-1990's??, he did an amazing job.
He almost had me believing that it was factual (except that he didn't mention Andrew or Edward and that Charles' and Anne's children were not correct, he didn't foresee the divorces, etc.)but that being said, what an incredible job writing about future events in such a believable way.
2016: I have previously read the print.
I bought the audio and this is the first time I am listening to the audio.
This story is one of his more confusing, because the transitions are a little bit abrupt and the flashbacks are longer so there were a few moments where I lost where I was because of the abrupt transition.
The most interesting part of this book are the political aspects.
This is a book written in the 1950s, taking place in the 1980s.
It is very interesting to see the characters navigate the political and cultural aspects of the situations.
I read this one ages ago in my mid-teens. It was the first time I read a book where the author had an overt political agenda, and a wheel barrow to push.Wrapping that all up as a piece of speculative fiction, and the creepy supernatural tie in between the events in the future and the here now, really rang a bell in an impressionable 17yo.I've always thought this was the best of the 20 odd Shutes, although _On the Beach_, _A Town Like Alice_, and _Requiem for a Wren_ are other favourites.
I love, love, love this book. I’ve always been a fan of a town like Alice which I read in my early teens but only found out about this book in my late 20’s/ early 30’s from my beloved aunt. In my mind it is more than a match for it’s authors more well known titles. Check it out. It vividly took me back to I time I haven’t lived yet so closely identified with. I won’t say more... check it out
Stevie varies his time living with a Chinese guy (Liang Shih) who grows vegetables and opium, or living in town, cadging free drinks.
Eventually, Hargreaves gets Stevie talking about his past and any possible relatives he might have.
Much of the book does read like classic Shute with airplanes and boats woven in, a shy friendship between an man and a woman that leads to romance, and so forth.
Overall, it's a decent enough book, but the polemic nature of Shute's stunted politics gets wearying, and as I said, the clumsy transition between 1953 and 1983 and back is very disorienting.
To distract Frankie, Hargreaves asks the dying man to tell the priest about himself.But the story Frankie tells is of Wing Commander David Anderson, an Australian test pilot who is asked to become a member of the Queen’s Flight (kind of like Air Force One for us Yanks.) As the story continues, it becomes clear that Anderson lives in the 1980s, a time of crisis for the Commonwealth.After this paragraph, I’ll be going into SPOILER territory, and also some racially charged language.
Having recently watched and been quite moved by the film On The Beach, based on the book of the same name by Shute, I thought I’d give the author a try and picked In The Wet simply because of the intriguing blurb on the back.
And where as Orwell’s novel feels as if it could have been written yesterday, In The Wet is very dated and unimaginative.
Perhaps, not for the first time, I’ve just had the bad luck to pick a dud when trying an author that I’m not familiar with, as based on In The Wet I don’t see how he ever got published.
Not his bestI am a big fan of Nevil Shute's, and I love most of his books.
I really did not expect to find myself reading a sci fi/fantasy story, with bold predictions of the future, and a political essay about the evils of socialism and how switching to a mulitple vote policy will save the world.
Still, it's a strong story in a lot of ways, with likeable characters and some world-traveling, royalty-loving fun and excitement.
No, not in Nevil Shute's world.I'm sorry.
I love Nevil Shute's works, only I just need to vent occasionally about some of his ideosyncracies.
I remember reading this in about 1966, when I read most of Nevil Shute's books for the first time, and not liking it much.
I pick his books up if I happen to find them in the library, and usually enjoy them - once I get past his attitude to women and non-Europeans.
I found the political diatribes very off-putting, and his imagining of the world 30 years after the book was written, in 1953, was wildly wrong, so much that it was very hard to stay interested.
Well-written and enjoyable, full of attractive characters, this novel was written in 1953, set around that time in Australia and simultaneously 40 years in the future which would be around 1993 which is 25 years ago.
As an English novelist, writing 63 years ago of a future that didn’t happen quite the way he envisioned, there was a certain amount of mental gymnastics required.
However, the political setting, theory and intrigues were fascinating once understood, particularly in light of the current political events.
Some naive compared to current developments as certain developments of modern life were beyond his ken.
This book is batshit crazy. Even for 1953 when it was written the language used is just plain outrageous, and the bizarre political clairvoyance Shute indulges in must have raised a few eyebrows even then. He's definitely got an axe to grind and more power to his elbow there: as he says in his afterword a novel is the place for it. Overall not as good as most of his other books but still a well-written and thought-provoking read. He wrote better novels than this though, and there's little to recommend this when compared with them.
I got this book as a birthday gift from my mother-in-law and spent a whole week finishing the 10 chapters in this book.
I have to say, I just couldn’t put it down.
I was so engaged in reading Nevil Chute that my husband said he never saw me love a book that much.
Nevil Chute is everything I am looking for as a great writer, such a great storyteller without embellishing with yarn any unnecessary dramas.
But the unexpected twist or revelation in the final chapter still gave me goosebumps unexpectedly but in a climactic way.
Cannot recommend enough.
A strange book..... as usual the NS style is straight foward and well paced, but within a picturesque tale of a clergyman in the Queensland rainy season, we suddenly find ourselves transported to a very 50s 1982, and NS gets a chance to get a few things off his chest about what Socialism has been doing to England and better ways of democracy.. He would have been shocked at how the 80s really turned out, but also relieved about national and commonwealth unity.
I need to be clear here, I did not finish the book. The reason being that I was listening to it on Audible. The narrator was just dreadful. His delivery was erratic and just did not allow for the sentences to flow in any way at all. Just so slow and irritating that despite 3 attempts at trying to get used to him, I decided I could not tolerate it a moment longer.Do I now buy this book in Kindle format or put it behind me altogether? Not convinced that I will.
What a strange and interesting book. I picked it up in a secondhand bookshop because I like the author but had not heard of this one. Although on several levels I ought not to like it, in particular politically, I loved it. As usual the author’s sparse and measured prose is beautifully understated .
I have read 3 other works by Shute, and have enjoyed them all, particularly, A Town Like Alice. In the Wet is a work of speculative fiction where he prognosticates the fate of Great Britain 30 years in the future (1982). Shute is obviously unhappy with the British government after WWII, hence his emigration to Australia and a major theme in this book. I found that this overt disdain for socialism did not make for a really good book that Shute is certainly capable of.
I read this many years ago, excellent book.
This future contains a British Commonwealth with a depopulated and impoverished Great Britain, and flourishing states of Australia and Canada.
Voting laws in Australia and Canada were amended to give multiple votes to individuals based on their satisfaction of certain criteria (while Great Britain refuses to do so) and the influence of the enlightened and empowered voters triggered an economic boom.
That's the setting; the story itself contains some of the usual Shute plot elements: a self-sufficient young protagonist (who is a pilot by vocation and a sailor by avocation) and an admirable, industrious young womanwho is attracted to him.
