https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/192174.The_Habsburg_Monarchy_1809_1918
This severe, judgemental little book is solely about the politics -- internal and external -- of the Austrian Empire and Austria-Hungary in the years stated.
The focus is exclusively on the Emperors' courts at Vienna and the many permutations that the monarchy went through -- who its ministers were and what their mistakes and successes were and who they dealt with abroad -- to manage a vast, polyglot state which eventually collapsed along nationalist and cultural lines.
Especially recommended for those with an interest in how Austria handled the Revolution of 1848 and it's run-up to the first world war.
This is a wholly different interpretation from Serbia's Great War 1914-1918 , where South Slav unity is a simple given from the start.Taylor always has a nifty phrase to spare.
203:  "The Slav immigrants in America...added the new ideal of promoting national self-determination and so paved the way for the American intervention in 1917 which determined the fate of the Habsburg Monarchy"  As if the Monroe Doctrine of 1823 hadn't long validated U.S. interventionism, or, more recently, the war of 1898 hadn't show the benefits of a military-backed sphere of influence which was not geographically defined by just the Philippines.
I struggled with this book more than I expected to, having been written by one of the 20th centuries most eminent British historians.
Certainly, Taylor's writing seems more relevant as he approaches the First World War and the end of the Habsburg monarchy - and looks forward to the impact of the successor states on interwar politics.That said, his emphasis on the fragmented nationalities that formed both Czechoslovakia and Yugoslavia seems prescient in the light of the more recent history of Eastern Europe.
In the second half of his book, Taylor contended that the complex political landscape in the new Austrian-Hungarian Empire after the Dualism in 1867 caused the Habsburg Monarchy to be increasingly protective of its hegemony, which culminated in the hasty declaration of war against Serbia that lead to WWI and the end of the Habsburg Monarchy.
Taylor ended his analysis and argument of the Habsburg Monarchy in reflection on the war with Serbia by stating: “It ended both greatness and independence.” The book treated the legacy of the Habsburg Monarchy and politics within the Empire with intense attention to detail and a lot of scholarly thoughtfulness, however it lacked clarity in both the chronology of events and the context in which they occurred.
The topic is of interest; the context was dated and the writing difficult.
Загалом, після цієї книжки стають зрозумілими причини такої популярності "бабці Австрії" в центрально-європейських народів: слабка влада, яка не могла стати на бік жодної з національностей чи класів, подобалася всім.
Але найбільше враження від книжки - це усвідомлення того, що Австрійська імперія була колосом на глиняних ногах і лише дивом проіснувала до 1918 р.
Саме тому книжка має бути особливо цінною для тих, хто досі вірить в "австрійський міф": завдяки праці А.Тейлора легко побачити, що Габсбурги відрізнялися від своїх "колег" Гогенцолернів чи Романових не намірами, а лише силою.
Але якби вони мали більше сили, то всі народи "щасливої Австрії" опинилися в тому ж становищі, що і підкорені народи Німецької чи Російської імперій.
A good book to which I have returned several times since I first read it in 1966 for history A level.
He writes well on the empire and its rulers with many Tayloresque asides - for example, his introduction to the second chapter is masterly but wry.
Since it first appeared, the dual monarchy has found more supporters than existed for much of the time after its collapse in 1918.
The fall of the communist successor states with the horrors of the civil wars in the Balkans, the transition to democracy and their entry into the EU have put the multi-national political entity that was the empire into a different light.
It's difficult to wade through the sea of names and institutional reforms that Taylor considers the building blocks of good history, but the author's occasional acerbic asides nearly make the task worthwhile. If nothing else, this book provides one important reason why the Austro-Hungarian Empire collapsed: the expense of bribing every nationality's elite with bureaucratic appointments (250,000 Magyar gentry had state jobs, for example) left little money for a modern army when the final war came.
Excellent history (as are all of AJP Taylor's works. This books makes you work, but at the end you really understand the Habsburgs, the interplay of nationality and class, and this thing called "Austria-Hungary." Taylor's cutting insights and take-no-prisoner style is refreshing and sometimes downright hilarious. I especially loved his last line in the bibliographic essay where he states, "This list does not exhaust the books I have consulted, some with profit, most without."
A+++ for this book! It`s a great resource for all those who want to know more about the Habsburg Monarchy. It`s well written, very precise and very detailed! One can very easy understand the history of this monarchy because the book has a wealth of historical, social, politic and demographic details. It helped me very much with the research I`m doing for a forthcoming novel. Thanks!!
A+++ for this book! It`s a great resource for all those who want to know more about the Habsburg Monarchy. It`s well written, very precise and very detailed! One can very easy understand the history of this monarchy because the book has a wealth of historical, social, politic and demographic details. It helped me very much with the research I`m doing for a forthcoming novel. Thanks!!
I've been struck by the similarity of style with Eric Hobsbawn to the point where I wonder if there's a house style for British Marxist historians. This book is peppered with judgmental pronouncements, but every page has at least a sentence that concisely captures a dense idea.
AJP Taylor was a clever thinker, but a poor historian. This is history told with few characters, frequent generalizations and with more than a little editorializing.
Probably deserves a higher rating because the scholarship and insight but the writing is a bit dense for my taste.
I read this to obtain some historical background for a trip to Hungary and Austria. It was useful for that purpose.
