https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/78039.Ramona_the_Pest
Ramona the Pest (Ramona Quimby #2), Beverly ClearyRamona the Pest, by Beverly Cleary, is the second book of the Ramona series and the first to focus on Ramona Quimby as the protagonist.
This children's book chronicles the adventures of Ramona's first few months at kindergarten.
Kindergarten Drop-Out.D: That was your favorite part?*Gwennie nods*D: Tell me about something that happened in the book, but it can't be something that happened today?G: What?
That spells Gwen.D: Gwennie, this is what I said: tell me about something that happened in the book, but it can't be something that happened today.G: When her tooth fell out.D: Where did that happen?G: It happened ooooonnnnnnn...
Where was she?G: Oh. She was at school.D: Yesterday you told me your favorite part was something else.
Beverly Cleary has a rare and special ability to bring the emotions of her characters home to the reader, no matter who that reader might be, because anyone who has feelings will recognize their own misunderstood parts in Ramona's personality.
Ramona the Pest is a nice, easy-flowing read, and a book that I will remember fondly for a long time.
:-) "People who called her a pest did not understand that a littler person sometimes had to be a little bit noisier and a little bit more stubborn in order to be noticed at all." —Ramona the Pest, P.
I ain't going back there again.'Where Piaget claims young children's inability to communicate well is a result of their inability to decenter, Donaldson turns that premise around in citing Lee. We sometimes miss children's true potential because we assume they understand our language.
Donaldson, Henry and I could have found the same example of egocentric language in Beverly Cleary's 'Ramona the Pest,' in which Miss Binney tells Ramona on her first day of kindergarten to 'sit here for the present.' The difference is that Miss Binney realizes the source of confusion, and shocks Ramona by apologizing to her in front of the class: 'I'm sorry....It's all my fault.
True confession: I thought a lot of Ramona's "pest" behavior was horrible, even while I strongly suspected that I was guilty of the same thing!
Normally we read picture books before bed each night, but I started this chapter book as a change of pace now that school has started up again.
She's always excited to read at night, but seemed more so with this book waiting for her as she was excited to see what would happen to Ramona next.
I think we will continue with some library picture books this week, then maybe start the other Ramona book we have next week.
خانم معلم آرام و شمرده گفت: " سلام رامونا!
اسم من خانم بی نی است.
یک سر و سامانرامونا با خود فکر کرد که سر و سامان حتما یک هدیه است و احساس کرد که دارد از خانم بی نی خوشش می اید....................................................................................................بورلی کلری با رامونا و سایر شخصیت هایی که در مجموعه هاش خلق کرده بچه های زیادی رو با کتاب و کتابخوانی آشتی داده...فکر میکنم راز محبوبیت رامونا در اینه که واقعیه، مثل همه بچه های کره زمین رفتار میکنه و مثل همه بچه های واقعی نه میخواد و نه میتونه بچه بهتری باشه
Oh the dawnzer lee light. I literally laughed the entire first chapter, remembering it being read to me as a kid at some point. Then I wondered the entire last chapter how it was that Ramona got away with not going to school. Her mom must have really had an interesting conversation with someone to make that happen. Still holds up. Again, a few cultural/gender norm issues, but nothing that's beyond what you'd expect for a book of this era (boys do this and wear that, the gypsy costume mention for Halloween -- nothing like Little House on the Prairie).
I just reread this as part of an informal "Ramona will save us, as she always has" book group with a friend.
It is, by no accident, the one I reread most as a kid, in which Ramona begins school, has an actually lovable teacher, and decides to drop out after determining said teacher doesn't love her.
...Somebody please, like, knight Beverly Cleary.
The woman aspires to sainthood.Although I should probably regret the fact that I relate this much to a five-year-old, I continue to take comfort in the commonalities, as long as the five-year-old in question is my girl, Ramona Quimby.
In this particular book, Ramona is beginning her first year of school, Kindergarten.
While in Kindergarten, Ramona begins liking a boy named Davy.
Susan, a fellow pupil of Ramona’s, has hair that Ramona has wanted to pull since the day she meets her.
One day, Ramona cracks and pulls Susan’s hair.
Ramona is then suspended from school and really saddened by it.
This book is a great transitional book.
I remember being in third grade where I read the entire series.
They’re funny and enjoyable for any young reader who is moving from strictly picture books to chapter books.
When I picked up the books from the library, I had a sudden urge to reread them for myself (or in some cases, read some children's classics for the first time).
However, I do not like some of the attitudes in the book.
"If she had to, she would make a great big noisy fuss, and when Ramona made a great big noisy fuss, she usually got her own way." Is this really an attitude I want reinforced in my children?
I think there are better books out there that will reinforce the behavior and beliefs I want my children to learn.
Adorable. How had I not read the Ramona books as a kid? It's fun reading these to the kids & talking about how things were "in the olden days - but not as old as Little House, right mom?"
My mother read me every Ramona Quimby and Henry Higgins book growing up and I read them again when I was old enough to read. This rainy Sunday afternoon seemed like a good time to read a Ramona book and it was like visiting an old friend!
Popsugar 2017-A book you loved as a childI'll never get tired of Ramona.
Oh, Ramona. Kindergarten drop-out with a doll named Chevrolet and singing about the dawnzer lee light, you hold up to my memories. I cannot believe how long ago this was written because it really does not feel dated, other than in a few small instances that are easily forgiven. Beverly Cleary was ahead of her time, and Ramona is a timeless character.
This cute and funny little book really shows the trials and perils of starting kindergarten, along with the huge desire to be grown up. I especially enjoyed it because of the 4 and 5 year olds that I know and love.
I grew up reading Ramona’s adventures and rereading this took me back to my childhood. Her brave and adventurous spirit inspired me to be curious as a child, and now as an adult it reminded me to find wonder in the normal parts of life. Also, Ramona is not a pest.
I read this out loud to my 9 and 6 year olds. We all liked this one, where Ramona is in kindergarten, better than the first one when she is about four years old. This one was a lot of fun!
reading as an adult, ramona is kind of a brat. loved every minute of it.
When she got into Kindergarten the teacher said "Sit here for the present." "A Present!" though Ramona.
Howie asked "why aren't you going with us?" Ramona said "The teacher's going to give me a present, but I have to sit here." "Why didn't she say I'd get one?" said Howie.
"You were going to give me a present and I have to stay here!" said Ramona.
Ramona made her owl's eyes looking to the left and Susan did too.
Ramona kept trying to make the owl look like her own, but Susan kept copying.
Now the teacher praised Susan's owl even though she was copying Ramona's.
This is a fun book to read aloud with your children.
I don't remember reading the Ramona Quimby books when I was young, but I did love The Mouse and the Motorcycle.
So when our oldest daughter brought this book home from her school library, we were very excited to read it.
It wasn't a big deal, but I had to modify what I read aloud for that bit.
We are looking forward to reading more books in this series.
Also, Mrs. Quimby shopping for fabric and patterns to make clothing for her family.
On this same shopping trip she bought a replacement cord for the toaster.
In this book, Ramona wants a dollar for her tooth that fell out in 1968 - she must think that baby tooth is made of gold!
(but she's just in kindergarten :-)I like this series much better than Junie B.
"It's stopped up with Santa Claus, but he doesn't show in the picture," Ramona smiled shyly at her teacher.
"I wanted to make my picture interesting."
well, very real-seeming children.This is the story of Ramona's kindergarten year.
It can be hard to find chapter books that are worth reading to kindergarteners, but this is it - Ramona actually seems like an actual child who is actually, really, truly in kindergarten!
When she struggles to refrain from pulling perfect Susan's curly "boingy" hair, you can feel how hard it is.
And it's easy for all small children to understand why Susan's trying to act like a grown-up is annoying for Ramona.I would really suggest this as a first read-aloud chapter book for a young kid.
My review is from my five-year-old's point of view.
We probably won't try this one again until Penny is old enough to read it on her own.Update a couple of weeks later: well, I guess it wasn't the book, it was me, because Penny started listening to this on audio (Stockard Channing is the reader) and she LOVED it.
She finished it in a couple of nights and is now listening to Beezus and Ramona.
Further update: I just re-read this one, aloud to my seven and eleven year olds, and they told me to give it "all the stars."
What do I like about Ramona?I like that she's innocent.
The messages from those books seem to be that being sneaky, mouthy, disrespectful...as long as you're clever about it, is a great way to be.What I like particularly about Ramona the Pest is the way Beverly Cleary explores the emotions of this little girl whose thoughts for action definitely outrun her thoughts of consequences.
I was touched by the way that Ramona ached when she thought her teacher didn't like her any more.I also like Ramona for the endless laughs.
Not much to say about the amazing Ramona series that has not already been said, we all know that they are classics.
These are my favorite read-alound books because they remind adults of the pace and significance of a day's event for a child.
Although I did not read this in the French I wanted to have the cover image of my favorite illistration.
Ramona is a scrapper, not a sweet little girl who keeps her clothes nice!
She pulls the boing-boing curls of pretty girls.
And my last favorite Ramona tidbits are that living in Portland I can ride down Klickitat street.
Ramona the Pest is Ramona's misadventures of Kindergarten told in her own point of view. Now that I could actually listen while Ramona was narrating rather than Beezus, I could like Ramona more than I thought I would. Although Ramona is very dramatic, I thought her kindergarten tales were cute and her reasoning throughout the story entertaining. I feel like I'll be able to see Ramona grow throughout her books which would be really fun for younger readers to grow up with.
Ramona is starting kindergarten and learning how hard it is not to be a pest, especially when she's continually misunderstood.I didn't remember Ramona being such a wonderful character. She's worshipful of her teacher; barely tolerant of Howie, the son of her mother's friend; and alternately lovable and trying to her family. Ramona has a zest for life that can hardly be squelched, even when it gets her in trouble for pulling Susan's irresistible curls. Boing!
Super delightful! Beverly Cleary hits being a five year old right out of the ball park. I had a few Lol moments and was nice evening spent with Ramona and her escapades.
So, here I am. Just a single girl, at home by herself on a Saturday night, reading Beverly Cleary. Perfectly. Normal.
