https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35297394-the-wicked-deep
I realized about halfway through the story that I greatly preferred the flashbacks to when the Swan Sisters were alive to the present story following Penny and Bo. This is interesting for me because typically, I feel flashbacks often impede my enjoyment of a story because I almost always care about the main characters more, but that was not the case with The Wicked Deep.
I think I would have preferred almost any other story set in this town with the Swan Sister’s influence over what we actually got.I REALLY enjoyed the story in the beginning, the first few chapters were extremely appealing and I expected to love this book, which is why it’s such a let down that I did not enjoy much else from the story.
“It starts as a low croon that rolls in with the tide, a sound so faint it might just be the wind blowing through the clapboard shutters, through the portholes of docked fishing boats, and into narrow cracks along sagging doorways. But after the first night, the harmony of voices become undeniable. An enchanting hymn sailing over the water’s surface, cool and soft and alluring. The Swan sisters have awakened.”  Friends, if you’re looking for something atmospheric, spooky, and completely captiv
Finally, my friend Julie posted she was going to be hosting a buddy read for it, and I knew that I could no longer continue to be haunted by this book.
The Wicked Deep is a story about a small town off the coast of Oregon, called Sparrow, that is the pinnacle of a small, sleepy town, except for in June when tourists come from all around in hopes of catching a glimpse of the Swan sisters who were drowned to death for witchcraft over two hundred years ago.
I saw a couple reviews calling this story instalove, but I was honestly swooning so hard for the romance in this book.
This is the story of three long-dead witches who come back every summer in the bodies of Sparrow girls to drown boys and the only girl in town who may be able to lift the curse.
The subject matter is, of course, dark, but the way the author presents the town and its curse feels almost magical.
She knows experienced readers have encountered witches before in their reads.
Fortunately the story of the three witches and the curse itself as well as how it unfolded during this particular summer kept me interested from start to finish.
Ever since then during the Swan Season, a period of time between June 1st and the end of the month, the three sisters return to the island by claiming the body of three young girls.
He's a complex character who ends up breaking my heart so many times in this book.
Legit 10/10 would recommend for anyone who loves atmospheric books, witchy tales, swoon worth kisses, or beautiful quote worthy writing.
It clearly didn't stop me from loving the book but I wanted to note that in the review in the ost non-spoiler way possible.
1823.The Lady Astor arrives in the gloomy town of Sparrow, carrying the Swan sisters.
Well, almost nothing; on the first day of June comes the singing, signaling the beginning of the Swan Season.
But Bo and Penny are tethered to the haunting of the Swan sisters in fundamental ways, and stopping the killings might have fatal consequences to them both.I read The Wicked Deep one of those days.The days in need for a forgetful cake to wipe away the sour taste of disappointment and discomfort from my mouth.
So I’ve been tossing back and forth all day between a 4 and a 5 over this one, so I think I’m just gonna be that guy and go with a 4.5.
I LOVED THIS BOOK SO MUCH.
This was the most beautiful and atmospheric book I’ve read in ages.
The setting of this book was PERFECTION and I want 383738251929 books set here, STAT.
Nothing surprised me at all, but I still loved it and enjoyed reading it SO MUCH.
I definitely recommend this to anyone interested in reading a really great October-y book in the spring, lol.
“This is how they do it—how the sisters are freed from their brackish grave. They steal three bodies and make them their own. And this season, they do it swiftly.” 3.5/5 ★I was in a mood for a book that had witches and a good plot and this book was exactly it.The story was so original!It starts a bit slow but after the first 4 chapter the story begins and awesome things starts to happen. For me the best part of the book was the writing, I’m in love with it. “Love is an enchantress—devious and w
3.5/5 ★I was in a mood for a book that had witches and a good plot and this book was exactly it.The story was so original!It starts a bit slow but after the first 4 chapter the story begins and awesome things starts to happen.
(view spoiler)[Well, 2 of them at least (hide spoiler)]OKAY, the ending was a bit of a disappointment for me.
(view spoiler)[not knowing exactly what happens with the romance was a bit meh, I wish it wasn’t let it open like that and I wanted proof that they end up happy and together, at least for me that wasn’t a happy ending at all.
3.5 stars! You want a nice Halloween books that’s not too spooky and reminiscent of Hocus Pocus? This is your jam.
“Love is an enchantress—devious and wild. It sneaks up behind you, soft and gentle and quiet, just before it slits your throat.” This book was SO much fun.First of all, you need to understand if you say the word witches I am sold. No questions asked, I want the book. Now, add three sisters accused of witchcraft who come back for revenge *ahem, Hocus Pocus vibes anyone?* and I am so sold there is no possible way I could dislike this book. Yet somehow, I still managed to be blown away by this. Al
Now, add three sisters accused of witchcraft who come back for revenge *ahem, Hocus Pocus vibes anyone?* and I am so sold there is no possible way I could dislike this book.
Not to mention how wonderful the mystery and legend of the Swan Sisters was woven into the story.
Originally, I will admit, I was not a fan of insta-love between Bo and Penny BUT after finishing this and finding out the reason for the insta-love I totally took it back and realized it was a vital part to the story.
I live on a small island myself, one that is a tourist destination and at times can feel exploited because of that, and I can tell you, I could feel the wind, the mist, the fog, the influx of outsiders - the weight of it - it is palatable and I thought that Ernshaw really brought that feeling to life in this book.Her writing is enchanting and she uses breathtaking descriptions to weave her tale.
This story could have been done without that historical element but I am glad that Ernshaw chose to write it this way.
This read like a wicked sort of fairy tale - beautifully gruesome and so atmospheric it's almost like you're there in the small island town. I was changing my mind about this up until the very end because every time I was sure about something there would be another reveal that changed everything - totally unique.
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestDo not be fooled by the quotes people are using in their reviews for this book. Those quotes will make you think that you are going to get a dark and twisted and impactful story about magic and revenge. I think this book wanted to be about those things, but what THE WICKED DEEP actually ended up being was on par with what you'd get if you'd asked Stephenie Meyer to rewrite The Craft.The Swan sisters (see, TWILIGHT) were three beautiful, sca
I think this book wanted to be about those things, but what THE WICKED DEEP actually ended up being was on par with what you'd get if you'd asked Stephenie Meyer to rewrite The Craft.The Swan sisters (see, TWILIGHT) were three beautiful, scandalous girls who ended up being murdered as Witches in Sparrow, Oregon because the townspeople got tired of their BS.
Because, as local legend has it, the Swan sisters never truly died, and are taking their revenge by possessing the bodies of young girls and seducing young men into the sea to die.Penny Talbot is our insipid main character and yes, before you ask, she's one of those plain, clumsy girls who doesn't know she's beautiful.
The love story was a bit too much for me and it happened too fast but other than that I really enjoyed it.
The story itself is quite unique.
And especially the atmosphere was on point!
There were a few to many metaphors for my taste that made it feel a bit pretentious but that's just something I personally don't like.
It was still really interesting and it didn't feel any less intriguing.
I technically loved it but especially the last few sentences felt wrong to me.
I can't really explain why but it just made me feel bad for Penny I guess?
Seventeen year old Penny Talbot lives in the small town of Sparrow and like many of the local residents she has come to accept the fate of her town every summer while tourists flock the town to see the legend of the sisters carried out.
The Wicked Deep by Shea Ernshaw is a young adult fantasy tale featuring witches, curses and a bit of romance added into the mix.
It was easy to get to know the characters in the present story while getting bits of the past to learn about the sisters and how they came to curse the town.
3.5 stars. This was quite a fun book and I'm always up for a witchy tale. But parts of it really annoyed me (like the insta love). Still, I definitely think it's worth the read. It's quite atmospheric and I enjoyed the writing style a lot. There were a few twists I didn't see coming which kept me wanting to read to the end.
I like that I couldn’t guess the surprise twist even though I was waiting for it.This book is told in the first person point of view, following Penny Talbot, 17 who lives on Lumiere Island and goes to Sparrow High School.
This book is also told in the third person point of view following the Swan sisters, from their arrival to the town to how they become a legend.
Even so, I enjoy the love story greatly and I highly recommend everyone to read this book!Pro: cover, legend, mystery, fast paced, page turner, easy to read,Con: noneI rate it 5 stars!***Disclaimer: Many thanks to the author Shea Ernshaw, publisher Simon Pulse, and Edelweiss for the opportunity to read and review.
4.5/5 I can't believe I read this whole thing in one afternoon!
This is the first time in a long time that I've read a whole book in a day and it feels amazing!
I honestly enjoyed this more than I thought I was going toIt was so interesting, imaginative, enchanting, atmospheric and spooky and I was hooked from the start.
It was so addictive to read, and I just didn't want to do anything else until I'd finished itIt was such a marvellous book, and I think it might be going on a list of my favourite standalone fantasy/paranormal books
I also noticed a lot of interesting commentary in this book, like how the "witches" were basically unfortunate victims of slut-shaming, and how this curse that was tied with their deaths became pretty much a spectacle for the town.
I thought that was a pretty realistic portrayal of modern day society; we see so much of death in the news and media that it turns into a spectacle that people are just okay with, even if it happens over and over.
*Sighs* I thought for once it will be all witchy juju which will allure me off but this love story:Okay, beyond sarcasm it was awful!
Surprise element is kind of different thing but for sake of twisting the story line (*which in first person) you do that it is beyond annoying.
(*WHY?)So, the story-line?
(view spoiler)[(*They weren’t witches though) (hide spoiler)] And they return every June 1st for their revenge.
(*I have never felt any revenge so weakly plotted!) And the insta-love which happens one summer brings all the so-called twist in the story for once and all.
Love is an enchantress-- devious and wild.It sneaks up behind you, soft and gentle and quiet, just before it slits your throat.  Well goddamn this book took me by surprise. I read and finished this book roughly a week ago. I was so conflicted on how I felt about it, that I couldn't formulate a proper review or even rate it. But now, sitting on these thoughts and how this book made me feel, I don't think I'll ever come to a concrete conclusion. But boy oh fucking boy.This book was so slow, deli
But now, sitting on these thoughts and how this book made me feel, I don't think I'll ever come to a concrete conclusion.
It's such a weird feeling and the only thing that comes close to this experience of reading this book would be, The Raven Boys.
Reading books that come close to what I felt reading, The Wicked Deep, is somewhat a rare and hidden thing.
And I didn't want it to be true because I DID NOT WANT IT TO GO IN THAT DIRECTION WHY WHY WHY..........ngh fuck.Well, when good conflicting things come to an end, you just got to move on and say goodbye.
OMG OMG, I'm not sure how to start with this review, this book is INCREDIBLE. So long ago I didn't read a book that made me feel that way, as full of feelings, I feel like my heart is going to explode or something like that lol. I'm certainly in love with this book, it's so atmospheric that you can really feel yourself inside it, I'm impressed5/5 StarsYou can find this one and more of my reviews on my blog A Book. A Thought. The book focuses on the story of a curse that began with three sisters
I think the fascinating part of the book is to get to know these three sisters and see in the context in which they lived and how they were seen by others, and everything that happened to them, happens in a totally different time period, where they thought and lived differently from what is done today, so I found all that aspect of the most interesting.There is something that is wonderful about this book and it's the mystery aura that surrounds the story, you read it and you feel that you're really there witnessing all the events.
It sneaks up behind you, soft and gentle and quiet, just before it slits your throat”  Plot : Three sisters accused of being witches centuries ago, for their ability to easily seduce married men, were drowned in a town called sparrow.
What I liked - I really enjoyed this book, especially the dark, stormy, atmospheric feelings it gave- I liked the mysteries of the book: Not knowing who was possessed because the witches while living in their host’s body, absorb all the memories and behaviour of their host, so no one knows who was possessed and who wasn’t.
What I didn’t like - The romance was a bit rushed, I felt that Bo and Penny fell DEEPLY in love kinda fast.
*clicks my ruby slippers together as many times as it takes*I'm going to try to settle down here for a second so that I can try to form a somewhat coherent review.
There were so many times when I would have to slow down and read the book out loud so that I could feel the shape of the lovely prose on my own lips.
It was so gorgeous at times, it was almost poetry.
Not this time, Satan!The magic in this book was not the kind that I was expecting.
READ THIS BOOK!
The witches are back. And there's hell to pay.    Although Marguerite, Aurora, and Hazel Swan were drowned many moons ago, these wicked sisters still come back every summer to haunt the little town of Sparrow. A town where their souls will forever be rooted because this is the town that took their lives.These young women were accused of practicing witchcraft and drowned to death, and as long as their souls still haunt the waters surrounding Sparrow: the Swan sisters will come back every year, in
Although Marguerite, Aurora, and Hazel Swan were drowned many moons ago, these wicked sisters still come back every summer to haunt the little town of Sparrow.
A town where their souls will forever be rooted because this is the town that took their lives.These young women were accused of practicing witchcraft and drowned to death, and as long as their souls still haunt the waters surrounding Sparrow: the Swan sisters will come back every year, inhabit a body, and kill whomever they choose.
Hazel Swan is torn, she loves her sisters, but she does not want to kill anymore.
*4 ATMOSPHERIC STARS* “Love is an enchantress—devious and wild. It sneaks up behind you, soft and gentle and quiet, just before it slits your throat.”  The writing was excuisite, the story was unique, the ending was beautiful. I loved it all!BUT! I saw most of the plot twists coming from a mile away. That however was not my biggest turnoff because everything was really well executed until the very end and managed to keep me invested. It was the insta-love that made me lower my score... We all kn
*4 ATMOSPHERIC STARS*
“Love is an enchantress—devious and wild.
It sneaks up behind you, soft and gentle and quiet, just before it slits your throat.” 
The writing was excuisite, the story was unique, the ending was beautiful.
I loved it all!BUT!
I saw most of the plot twists coming from a mile away.
That however was not my biggest turnoff because everything was really well executed until the very end and managed to keep me invested.
It was the insta-love that made me lower my score...
We all know I don’t like those.
I am sitting at work, having just finished the final pages of The Wicked Deep, and I'm having a hard time mentally slipping back into reality. My mind is stuck in this book, this wonderful and mysterious book. I cannot escape fictional Sparrow, Oregon.I think I'm bewitched by the Swan sisters' tale, Bo, and Penny. SOS.
I loved the book from its beginning to the end. The writing skills are so perfect and captivating. This book is a real page turner; I didn’t have a single thought about where Hazel was all this time. Simply, both the story line and the cover are gorgeous.
Gee thanks for that one "Mrs. Alba is Spanish, but Rose’s father is true-blooded Irish, born in Dublin, and Rose managed to get all her father’s features, much to her displeasure."See...
That just basically means you're calling true-blooded Irish people born in Dublin less than attractive.
Like say he's got a wonky nose or some crap, keep it generic and then it's not an affront to an entire freaking nation.
Gee that's nice for Penny isn't it.
That her body was so casually violated while she was not actually in control of it and thusly unable to give her consent!Ffs....
(hide spoiler)]Look it was all nicely bland.
You can feel the magic radiating when you first start reading.
It focuses more around Penny and Bo and wondering how to stop the sisters.
Very enjoyable read!Penny is seventeen and it's the end of her junior year.
Tomorrow is June first, the start of Swan Season.
Every year in Sparrow the Swan sisters return by possessing the bodies of teenage girls and luring boys to their death in the water.
Bo. Who is this outsider and why is he in Sparrow the day before Swan Season?Buddy Read with Andrea 😊
