https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5161066-dead-and-gone
(B+) 77% | GoodNotes: Slightly different writing style with heavier use of inner monologue and foreshadowing. Not really an improvement.
No matter what team you were on – Eric, Bill, Quinn, Sam – you expected some kind of resolution, at least temporary, to her love life.
There was so little development in Eric/Sookie (or for that matter Bill/Sookie and Quinn/Sookie) relationship, it was pitiful.
Seriously, how many books will it take Eric to confess his love for Sookie?
I believe she will continue writing these books for years to come dangling Eric and Bill in front us to keep us interested.

In the 9th Sookie book we are basically facing the fall-out from 2 revelations: That Sookie's Great-Grandfather is Fairy Royalty, and that the Were's have finally revealed themselves.
Each has results ending in not very good things for Sookie, mainly kidnapping from psycho fairies who are responsible for her parents deaths (I always knew there had to be more to the flash flood) and Arlene plotting with the Fellowship to kill Sookie and string her up on a cross.
***Spoiler Alert***I was okay with the book until about 20 pages to go and then all hell broke loose.
What is the point of telling us Claudine is pregnant if you are going to kill her two pages later?!?!
We don't need two pregnant women killed in one book.
I am not okay with how "eh" the deaths were taken in this book either.
I hate the way Dawson's death was treated, and then the drug dealer rumor.
And speaking of FotS, get rid of Arlene, I have been tired of that woman since book one and eight books later I hate her even more.
❤ 5 Dead and Gone Stars ❤ This book is action PACKED, Sookie needs protection from the fairies.Strange deaths, horrible deaths.
And confusion of Love.It’s weird read this series because somethings happened in the TV True Blood and somethings didn’t.
She might not like that Erik is so forthright but then again she does.
Sookie confuses me and she is confusing them.I am sad about a few characters we have lost in this book.
I really was a fabulous addition to the series.
I can’t wait to see what the next few books will be like.
Sadly, I feel this book left me feeling both disspaointed and extremely hungry because it wasn?t even an appetizer.Without giving spoilers and ruining it for others, like some of the reviewers I felt there was simply too much going on all at once.
LKH uses it a cope out and a crutch and Harris is simply too good a writer to go that route so I hope she steers back.(SPOILER) I also felt the new "relationship" between Sookie and Eric was sorta baloney?we didn?t feel the tension that had been there in previous books because now Sookieis unsure whether her feelings are real or a result of the blood bond.
There are several plot lines left hanging, and the ending is rushed, as if Harris saw her deadline approaching and decided to have somebody beat the living crap out of Sookie (yet again, with feeling this time) so that she can be rescued and the book can end.I used to really appreciate the small-town Southern flavor of this series, but the author is laying it on too thick now.
They detract from every series where I've seen them included; they're too powerful and too other-worldly for urban fantasy.One last petty complaint: the author's name and the title of the book are printed at the bottom of every page, and that got on my nerves after a while.
Her life is hugely out of her control, yet she manages to fight for what little she can have.I love Eric.
I LOVE Eric even more in this book.
We also know through what happened with Quinn that she needs to be the most important person in her man's life.
She also believes Eric will always be number one in his life, which puts him out of the running.or does it?This book plants the seeds of doubt about Eric's self-centeredness and how he feels about Sookie.
Whatever it is happens pre Dead to the World when Sookie finds Eric running naked with no memory.
I too am anxious for the next book if for no other reason than to see the full manifestation of Eric's growth and feelings for Sookie (which are well touched on in Dead and Gone); and to see Sookie (I hope) reach a mature balance in her feelings for Bill.
Time will tell.CH has said that Sookie will find her love but she is undecided if that will be at the end of the series.
Even with all the plot points still left to be dealt with I agree that this addition to the series moved several plots along, found some closure with some, and left plenty of questions still hanging out there.Brava Ms. Harris, it was worth the wait!
But nothing is really ever how it appears in this series, and none of their time together seemed 100% normal to me, like there was something important we still need to know.
Is it sad part of me was hoping he WAS dead at the end?
I just want to see what direction the series would go if Sookie WAS attached to someone (by someone I mean Eric of course), and the endless circle of "who will it be?" was over.I am so sad Claudine and Trey Dawson are dead; Sookie needs all the allies she can get.All right, now that is done.
In the first couple of books of the series, I loved the stories and characters, couldn't get enough of them...
and then came werewolves and shifters, I didn't like them as much but I was just about willing to accept them.
I went from being indifferent towards them to thinking: "oh god, you can't die!" I'm just crossing my fingers that Charlaine Harris will bring the focus back to vampires.
Some novels about werewolves and shifters and fairies do interest me but the Sookie Stackhouse stories should stay where they belong - with the vamps.
Harris is back with her witty dialogue and elaborate cast of characters, but as the story arcs away from the vampires, it loses something.
I like that the previous Sookie books could stand alone.
I'll keep reading Sookie regardless, and I don't like having to ponder for a year on comments that may or may not have meant anything.While it's a dark theme to begin with, the personal relationship with really dark material Sookie finds herself having left me feeling a little disconnected with this book.
While I am glad Harris does not go into gruesome details, I miss the vampire wars and supe chaos more.
The fairies are interesting, but I am glad it seems pretty sure they will not reappear in the future.
Sookie Stackhouse's All-Male Revue. Bitch is fucking everyone.what an iconic thot.Sooo this was good.thank god.i'm pretending like book 8 isn't a thing.what a pointless filler.the plot was entertaining and the mystery was interesting.side not,fuck Crystal?somehow i'm still invested in this series but i don't know when i will buy book 10 because the rest of the series isn't on sale. -I am too big for some.-Bring it on.He shoved forward. P.S. i can't read the sex scenes.i always skip them.they ar
Sookie Stackhouse's All-Male Revue.
Bitch is fucking everyone.what an iconic thot.Sooo this was good.thank god.i'm pretending like book 8 isn't a thing.what a pointless filler.the plot was entertaining and the mystery was interesting.side not,fuck Crystal?somehow i'm still invested in this series but i don't know when i will buy book 10 because the rest of the series isn't on sale.
  -I am too big for some.-Bring it on.He shoved forward.
P.S. i can't read the sex scenes.i always skip them.they are just too cringy.
I've been with Sookie since 2004 when I read the first 5 books back to back.
This book started funny (What Not To Wear for Vamps, lol), but soon got booooorrrring.
Sookie is tired and 'blood bonded' to Eric (my choice for a mate, fo sho), so she never gets angry anymore.
Perhaps a good thing, because she was always yelling in the older books.
Instead, we're treated to a vague war with the fae where Sookie, having 1/6th blood is THE target?
Shamefully, Charlaine Harris, you let HBO overblooded/sexed/drugged your charming southern vampire series and you've given your books ambien.
The scattered book 8 set up for this one nicely & much was resolved.
This book was more on track, as usual & about the same caliber.
It should be read in order.
It's a soap opera, so you need the background to appreciate how our heroine works through her various difficulties.
All in all, more fun reading candy.
28May11 - re-read the HB which I now own.
Teresa loaned me the new book #11 & I've 're-read' the series up to this point in audiobook format, downloaded from the local library.
Parker did an excellent job reading, but it is a lot faster reading.
Why and how Harris imagines that anyone could possibly be interested in the fact that Sookie wields a trowel with her right hand and pulls up the weeds with her left is a mystery left unexplained.Following this, Sookie kills yet another being by fortunate accident, thereby saving her life.
Although I grant it is exactly the kind of crap you would expect Sookie to listen to.Cruellest Post-Mortem Character Analysis “I wasn’t amazed that someone would want to kill Crystal, but I was really horrified about the baby.” Fair enough.
How the hell else does Harris imagine I might think to pronounce Dillon?Clearest Example of Cultural Ignorance “Claude and I used to have Irish names.
I would say that as a general "life rule" it would be a good idea to keep out of immortal wars when you are a human. You're gonna get your ass kicked while all the supernatural creatures can just heal, and can't easily die. Of course, Sookie is still kind of a dumbass, and finds herself in the middle of a fairy war. This is after being in a vampire war and werewolf war. All we need to make this party better is a stupid redneck girl..The best part of this book is that Sookie finally starts to com
Of course, Sookie is still kind of a dumbass, and finds herself in the middle of a fairy war.
All we need to make this party better is a stupid redneck girl..The best part of this book is that Sookie finally starts to come around to my point of view and gets together with Eric.
some offers are just too good to refuse...(there, I have included my mandatory Eric gif.
It's one of my "life rules".)So, Sookie is knee-deep in fae politics, but don't worry, she filled a squirt-gun with lemon juice and carries it on her at all times.
So, while I would have liked more detail on Sam, for instance, instead we get a pointless war, complete with the death of Claudine, the only fairy character that I actually liked.
The horrible death of Sookie’s shifter sister-in-law gets almost glossed over and it seems that no one actually misses the poor woman.Eric gets much more attention in this installment, as he tricks our gullible heroine into a vampire marriage.
By contrast, Vampire Bill comes out of this smelling like a rose, having proven himself devoted to Ms. Stackhouse.One wonders how many more “wars” can be invented to be the centre of each new book.
And other than Sookie, I think Eric is the character that has developed the most over the course of the series.
Dermot is still on the loose, so I suspect Harris will use that as a way to keep Niall and Co. around for another book ir so.And finally, Bill.
I was okay with the triangle between Bill, Sookie and Eric, but that was mainly because I never thought that Harris really had any intention of Bill and Sookie getting back together!
I would really like to see Sookie and Eric try and make a real go at a relationship, because I think they could make it work.
This is going to kill me waiting..lol..I HATE BILL with a passion that b urns brighter than the sun and I wish that she would have killed him instead of killing off Claudine whom was such a sweet and loving character.
Niall says, "The vampire is a good man and he loves you.." Sookie has the BALLS...
What a slut..lol.....I wonder if anyone can tell that I am totally for ERIC!!!
He is so sweet and you can tell that he loves her and that he wants her..
It was kind of weird reading this book.
Perhaps my memory is a little skewed but in most Sookie books there's always a lot going on and Sookie is hardly home.
However in this book it was interesting in that Sookie was in Bon Temps the whole book.
It felt a bit slow to me but Eric was in it a lot and that's more than enough to keep me happy.
I'm certainly curious as to hearing his explanation for him being MIA in a certain point and waiting for the next book to come out will drive me crazy.
The ending of this one is very painful as those sadistic fairies torture Sookie and kill a few of her friends. I sure enjoyed it five stars right up until near the end but when I read about Claudine dying and some others after being tortured its just too much for me. I guess fairies are the most vicious and evil creatures of all! I hope the door to Fairy is sealed permanently.
Bob knows I love a good popcorn read and they don't get much more corny Charlaine Harris' Sookie books.
Reading about Sookie's misadventures with the vampires that live out in the open is always a good way to spend an afternoon in the sun.
This would have been far more interesting if Harris had made it more of a focus of the story rather than getting embroiled in the royal intrigues of the fairy princes.Still, it's a good stop-gap for those anxious to dip into Sookie's little world of Bon Temps for a little while.
I had conflicted feeling about this one.
I hated how there came to be so much angst from Sookie about Eric.
This is the one where he "tricks" her into a vampire marriage to try and protect her from Felipe de Castro.There's some boring stuff about Jason and his wife, Arlene does something stupid and boring, and then there is the whole fairy war thing, and that just never appealed to me much.
I think it was dumb to kill off (view spoiler)[Claudine (hide spoiler)].
There is a reveal about Sookie's parents and some fairy background.
Meh. Like I've said, I only read for Eric.
There are incidents, of course: Sam’s mother is shot and Jason’s wife is brutally murdered, although whether this is a reaction to weres, or something more personal, is not clear.The FBI turns up in Bon Temps to question Sookie, and she fears her life may change for the worse.
But soon, Sookie is in danger from another quarter entirely, and has to call in promises of protection from the vamps and weres.
Sookie learns more about her family’s history, gets up close and personal with Eric (again) and is kidnapped and tortured.
After this revealing dose of Sookie, what’s next for our telepathic cocktail waitress?
Hmmm...
I felt disappointed with this one.
The end was just wrapped up to quickly, and the treatment and tragic end to some characters - SPOILER - Claudine!?
why dismiss her death in this way?
I was also sad that Tray died.
...so which vampire did Niall mean when he told Sookie that at the very end?
my initial thought was that it had to be Eric, because Niall didn't really know Bill.
It seems like CH is starting to formulate an ending here - things are slowly wrapping up.
Holy heck on wheels, Vampire Bill managed to redeem himself! Who knew?!?I felt like this was very much an "in-between" book that could send the series in any number of directions in the future, but it was still very entertaining and well worth the read for anyone who loves the series.Since the book is so newly published, I'm reluctant to say anything more that might be too spoilerish so I'll leave it at this and strongly urge anyone who hasn't read it yet to do so as soon as possible!!! :)
Sorry to say this one was really disappointing. I think Charlaine Harris' writing has come a long way since the start of this series, but I think Dead and Gone is a considerable step backwards, and really has me thinking this series should be given an honourable end...meaning sooner than later. Obviously there's at least one more book coming in the series. Sadly, I'll be hoping for one last reasonable attempt, rather than waiting with great anticipation as I have for some of the previous books.
More brain candy from Harris. The TV series is a lot (sorry) meatier, but this will help to pass the time until the new season in June.
