https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/54149.The_Mystic_Masseur
The Mystic Masseur is more subtle in its social criticism than I had come to expect from Naipaul's semi-autobiographical works and collected essays.
The author does not break narrative to make explicit commentary about Indian culture in Trinidad, but the characters that populate this novel represent types that undeniably speak of the cultural experience of Indians living in Trinidad.
Naipaul successfully uses a single character to chart the evolution of an entire culture, in a way that not only succeeds as social commentary but also entertains.
The only book I had read previously by this author was "House for Mr. Biswas" which I thought very, very good and just slightly short of a five star rating (of which I am very stingy).
Granted, this is Naipaul's first book, and if I hadn't read "Biswas" my rating might be a bit higher.
If you haven't read Naipaul, start here and save "House for Mr. Biswas" for a few rainy, down days, periods we all have when we desperately need a literature lift: a "lili" if you will.
Mystic Masseur by V.S Naipaul is one of the finest comic capers i have laid my eyes upon.It is the story of the rise of Ganesh Ramasumair,a failed Primary school teacher and struggling masseur to a writer ,mystic and finally a MBE(Member of executive council) in Trinidad.The book is written in the strangely hilarious English spoken by the Trinidadian people and is set in Colonial Trinidad.
توی این ریویو احتمال لو رفتن پایان داستان وجود داره!!!داستان جوان هندی ای به اسم گالش که کم و بیش درس خونده.
بالاخره یه روز با گلچین کردن جملات کتابای مختلف، کتابی مینویسه که موفقیتی هم کسب نمیکنه.
به مشت مال دادن روی میاره اما توی اون کار هم ناموفقه.
بالاخره یه روز تصمیم میگیره اسم عارف رو روی خودش بذاره و به درمان روحی مردم کمک کنه.
توی اینکار شدیدا موفق میشه و شهرت و ثروت هنگفتی به دست میاره.
غلط های املایی و نگارشی عمدی که به نوعی اون حال و هوای روستایی بودن و بی سوادی شخصیتای داستانو نشون میده.
Naipaul's first novel; a comic satire set in the Indian community on Trinidad in the 1930s and 1940s.
The characters have been described as Dickensian, however I felt that there was just a touch of P G Wodehouse about the book; because it dealt with quite a small enclosed group within a wider society, which generally did not intrude into the story.
The satire is a little cruel at times and there is an element of cynicism underlying the whole story.
The book was certainly amusing, but I was not quite sure whether Naipaul actually liked his characters or meant us to like them; I probably need to read more of his work to make a judgement.
با این که اولین رمان نایپل بود ولی خوب بود و طنز لطیفی در سراسر داستان موج می زد
With only few brushstrokes Naipaul is able to get a character on his or her feet.
Amused, I had to read some passages again to see how that works.
A lot of it depends on the dialogue and how a character speaks, and the writer has a very good ear for it.
There is a remarkable control over the narrative, the kind very few writers show, but that's what we have come to learn about Naipaul already.
It is a funny book and the restraint makes the joke work.
Wonderfully written, with a dickensian flair for satire. At the end however I was left with a bitter taste in my mouth-- it's clear that the author didn't really like any of his characters very much. No hope for redemption. Understanding without empathy-- just exceedingly skilled mockery. Sort of a disappointment. But as the craft of writing goes this is pretty exemplary.
The book is of course funny, as it is an effective satire of a society caught between oral and written culture, western civilization just cutting through.
The ending falls flat a little, but i think that's the point and i didn't feel like it ruined the experience for me too much.
I read this book for a world literature class, and even though I had to read it within a week and a half among four other classes, I feel like someday there might come a time when i don't mind picking it up again.
Apparently Naipaul has had two phases in his writing: an early comic vision of which The Mystic Masseur is an example and a later disturbing darker period.
V S Naipaul was born in Trinidad, an island in the Caribbean, to which his grandfather had come from India.
Naipaul uses a combination of humor, magical realism and scenes from Indian/Hindu immigrant life to describe the coming of age of Ganesh Ramsumair, an orphan who makes it through some college education, fails as a school teacher and returns to his native village.
I enjoyed this hilarious satirical story about hapless Ganesh rise from failed school teacher and mystic masseur to pundit.
He becomes the most popular person in Trinidad amongst the Indian population.
From this and the printer episode he evolves into a pundit and from then on everything he does is golden.
It shows how an idiot can be successful if you try and with the advice of the Great Belcher!Some great characters such as his wife Leela and her father who tries to cash in on Ganesh’s popularity.
I loved the Great Belcher she was hilarious.
The Mystic Masseur has you chuckling throughout.
Seperti banyak orang Indonesia di Suriname, di Trinidad juga banyak orang India.Dan mereka masih ketat menjaga tradisi.Mulai dari ratapan saat ada yang meninggal, mahar dari pihak perempuan saat pernikahan, juga perlakuan suami terhadap istri. Mereka juga menjaga kepercayaan terhadap hal-hal mistis.Melalui Ganesh, penulis menunjukkan semua itu. Sindirannya pasti mengena telak. Naipaul memang berniat menunjukkan kepada para pembaca mengenai diri mereka sendiri. Soalnya, biasanya memang sulit menyadari kelemahan dan kekuatan diri sendiri. Seperti si Ganesh ini.
Sir Naipaul has such a formidable reputation, both as a scholarly writer & a curmudgeon that, readers/people are afraid to approach him(ask writer Paul Theroux!).I feel lucky that I started my acquaintance with this writer through his first book, 'The Mystic Masseur' (1957) which is rather simple & approachable.I think if you plan to read a writer's entire oeuvre then it's better to read them in a chronological order so as to enjoy more the gradual evolution of their worldview/artistic vision that inform & shape their work.This work forms part of Naipaul's early Carribean novels yet it's about the Indian community in Trinidad (as most of his fiction is).
The sycophancy of his Father-in -law when he realizes his son-in-law made it big in life, his wife's lopsided nepotism and his close friends who seem to persuade him for writing books would bring a chuckle for sure, if one is acquainted to such behaviour in regular life.
A subtle tinge of Creolisation is noticed when the reader realizes that Trinidad and Tobago are colonial frontiers of the British, and the process of being creole is seen as a subtle progression in society.
No one can compete with V.S. Naipaul when it comes to writing books wig the colonization reference, and this book brings out the best.
Naipaul creates a comic system full of characters mired in their petty motives, and lets it loose.
The refinery of the dialect, the technique of creating a sel-sustaining sytem, and the realization of tragedy as a greater force than out and out comedy -- add these three to The Mystic Masseur and you get very close to Naipaul's first masterpiece in 'The House of Biswas'.
For Naipaul afficionadoes Massuer is a must read because not only does it do fairly well as a novel, it also exposes the components that were in creation before their final culmination in Mr. Biswas.
The story is simple and the history of indians in Trinidad is embedded in it.A good satire which was absorbing the in the first half of the book. However became a bit of a drag the second half and a curt dissappointing ending at the end.Ganesh metamorph as his country Trinidad change. What he despised of in the beginning finally caught up with him in the end as G. Ramsay Muir, ESQ
Odavno me neka knjiga nije ovako nasmijala. Radnja se odvija na Trinidadu i opisuje se život Ganesha Ramsumaira koji od običnog nastavnika postaje čudesni maser.Saznala sam mnogo interesantnih stvari kao:- kad imaš mnogo novca onda možeš sebi priuštiti i da misliš;- kada na Trinidadu žena napusti muža on joj treba poslati poruku "Pseto, kako si?" ili "Mačko, kako si?" :)
Spoiler Alert This is raw Naipaul much before the Indian trilogy, and before he polished all those edges of a genius. The book is about Providence, the meteoric rise of a teacher turned Masseur turned Mystic turned politician and finally into a brown English Sahib. This metamorphosis is fantastic, unapologetic except right at the very end, and destined. Good stuff!
بعد از خانه ای برای آقای بیسواس ، این دومین کتابی است که از و.س.نایپل خواندم. برنده جایزه نوبل سال 2001 که در این کتاب با زبانی طنز روایتگر زندگی گانش است که از یک مشت و مالچی ساده به سیاستمداری موفق تبدیل می شود که در نهایت نشان امپراتوری بریتانیا را هم دریافت می کند.
I haven't expected a satire but then again, Naipaul is known to exhibit a healthy sense of humour. An it helps portray the Trinidadians with lots of insight, I think. Reads well in South Asia.
I liked, but didn't love, this slender satirical comedy of the rise and rise of Ganesh Rumasumair – failed school-teacher, incompetent masseur, perpetually dissatisfied family-man, and self educated pundit.
Despite the initial poor reception of his work, and through a series of unlikely events, he gains a reputation as a mystic and healer and eventually becomes an official in the colonial administration of Trinidad.There are some genuinely funny moments, and the burgeoning commercial empire that accretes around Ganesh's career as a spiritual advisor, is a pointed dig at the cosiness of religion and capitalism.
While A House for Mister Biswas did finally prove to be memorable, I wasn't sure I'd pick up another book by Naipaul anytime soon. The Mystic Masseur fell into my lap by a fortuitous accident and left me delighted. It is evident that Naipaul has a very fine eye for the comical - an eye which provides an unexpectedly subtle antidote to a world committed to taking itself too seriously.Eminently worth reading.
Very funny. Set in a similar context to the not so funny (but superb) 'A House for Mr Biswas', i.e. Trinidad, in the 1930-1940's.
As his earliest novel (not counting Miguel Street, which is a collection of stories), this is worlds away from his more mature works, such as In a Free State, The Enigma of Arrival, Among the Believers, etc.
Naipaul takes several shots at the "mimic men" (to quote one of his later books) of Trinidadian society, who aspire to act and think British, turning their back on cultural roots.
Yet this is a great place to start reading Naipaul, completely enjoyable in its own right, but also a fitting prelude to works like A House for Mr. Biswas and In a Free State.
In this way it reminded me of Stella Gibbon's novel, "Cold Comfort Farm" which was written in 1932 and I described as "Slowing you down to the speed of the day" Something that "The Mystic Masseur" also does.I had a feeling of uneasiness at the beginning of the book as it seemed to be disparaging toward the people of Trinidad and the way they spoke.
"It have a long time now - since your father dead, come to think of it - I suffering from this wind."The above, read on its own, might seem a bit of a chore but, on the contrary, this is a book that meanders at a slow pace, even though it depicts the rapid rise of Ganesh.
Wow wow wow! What a brilliant triumph of a writer to get into nerves ... I was just embroiled into the sphere wafted by Sir Naipaul.A very simple story, told very simply, where how interest in reading elevated Ganesh and his journey from being masseur to M.B.E.Thanks PetarX for giving me the suggestion for this book. Now my next set of books (Though I have all books written by him) from Sir Naipul that will be definitely calling me lovingly : A bend in the river, Writer's people and The Miguel street.
The dialogue is so hilarious and the language so endearing that I kept finding myself reading it outloud or wishing someone was reading it to me. I wanted to know more about every character, couldn't wait to spy on them again and find out what they would say or do next. Did I mention I LOVED the characters? I would give ths 5 stars but for the lackluster ending.
In this book you can sense a great writer discovering his craft. About half of the book is as good as anything else he has ever written, which is pretty good and regularly funny. The other half is a fascinating set of false starts and slight misses, with an unnecessary profusion of characters. Thoroughly recommended.
(Relectura. CARBONE TE ODIO. Bueh mentira pero odio este libro.)
Certainly the book no longer has to be read that way: Naipaul’s readership is presumably global and won’t necessarily share the attitudes of a 1950s British reader.
Of course, I’ve now tangled myself up in a knot of uncertainty, but I feel the way the novel works on one emotional level, pushing us towards a satiric superiority over the characters and their world, is its great limitation, whether or not Naipaul was toadying to his Imperial rulers.
