https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2714639-omnipotent-government
And what took it's place was it's virtual opposite: militarism.In addition to militarism in Germany came the rise over all of Europe of nationalism, etatism (statism), interventionism, protectionism, autarky, social democracy (one of the socialist ideology implementations), racism, polylogism, economic depression, and planning (by that Mises means Government coercive planning, NOT everyone making their own plans, coordinated by the voluntary transactions and institutions of the marketplace).
Our recent presidential election had most of the bad ideas in full hype mode, in contrast to the little time and energy devoted to classical liberal ideas - not an auspicious indicator for the good ideas to prevail over the statist ideas.Let's just take one of the main ideas that both major candidates agreed on and President Trump made a major focus of his campaign: protectionism.
This edition is beautiful.Liberty Fund creates some of the best value classic books around and this one is a good example.Acid free paper, attached bookmark, clear printing, nice cover and an excellent short new Foreward to this edition by the series editor Bettina Bien Greaves, mean that this will be the best reference for years and many readings to come.
See it here: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...But I will say that the Foreward by Bettina Bien Greaves is definitely worth checking out and clarified one particular statement by Mises in the book and confirmed another.
Totalitarian and its logic to war 　　 　　This book effectively illuminate the topic of the later, etatism or national socialism in a broad context of international relations.
Thus, the only hope to a sustainable world peace is for totalitarian nations to abandon etatism tendency.
As Mises concluded: "Neither destiny nor history nor geography nor anthropology must hinder us from choosing those methods of political organization which can make for durable peace, international cooperation, and economic prosperity." 　　 　　 　　III.
Durable international peace is only possible under perfect capitalism and market economy, because there will be no economic causes of war.
The antisemitism of the Nazis was inconsistent and incoherent, founded on racialist ideas and yet practically executed by discriminating against members of a specific religion with no regard for their physical characteristics, or sometimes by arbitrarily declaring something or someone to be Jewish.
Here is one of von Mises' excellent quotes in this context:The laws promulgated by the Nazis for discrimination against Jews and the offspring of Jews have nothing at all to do with racial considerations proper.
Negroes and whites differ in racial—i.e., bodily—features; but it is impossible to tell a Jewish German from a non-Jewish one by any racial characteristic.For a work by von Mises, this book is heavy on historic data and narratives.
A book rich in history background and a though provoking plan for the future.In the first part Mises explains the German Liberalism during the middle of the XIX when the ideas of the classical Liberalism were partially adopted in Germany.
Yet the German nation did not succeed in shaking off the yoke of absolutism and in establishing democracy and parliamentary government."Mises explains the history of Germany from the late XVIII to the early XX with a different point of view from the dominant Socialist Historians.
socialism of the Russian pattern" dichotomy will find much repetition in this book.But, perhaps it was written for a specific audience at a specific period of time.
While the first few chapters are of great interest to anyone in any time period, the majority of the book just feels to me as though it no longer applies to anything other than academic history.Don't get me wrong, it is a good book.
But while much of Mises' work is of pressing importance today, this book stands out as being academic history.
Even though this is written to explain the rise of Nazi Germany, it is still worth reading. 1. The first part of the book explains how easy it is for a government to seize power from the people. Many of the events and movements that he describes are applicable today. The idea that government can cure ills is still a component of many people's philosophy and just as dangerous. 2. As a piece of history, it is a contemporaneous analysis of the rise of the Nazi power written by a political economist who can observe the event first hand.
An important book. Can be read together with Hayek's The Road to Serfdom. A lot of important information about Germany from before Bismark to the Nazi regime.
a bit outdated and on the positivist end, this book gave me good insight on the liberal doctrine backed by logic flawless a times. some arguments are still very recent. recommended reading.
Mises makes a number of good points in the book, pointing out that the national socialists were indeed socialists and not capitalists of any sort of stripe and that the ideology of statism inevitably propels the most bloodthirsty groups into power because it is precisely the bloodthirsty who are prepared to start killing people when they reach the point where their ideologies inexorably call for it.
Mises was however mistaken in his estimation that the Germans would always remain an aggressor nation after the War and that democratic states would need to form a single super-state for their protection after the war ended.
This is a very good book for people who are not familiar with Mises and/or economics in general.
This book is history book above all- covering mostly Germany in the mid-19th century to the time he wrote it (WWII).
He not only accurately predicts the downfall of Hitler, he also shows why any such regime is doomed to failure, by touching more upon the economic and epistemological arguments he more thoroughly discusses in some of his larger works, such as Socialism and Human Action.
Many in America are falling prey to the same lies that ensnared early 20th century Europe. The weak point in our system of government is that it requires a base level of understanding of the principles of sound economics. Those who advocate class warfare, and mass unionization of industry are successful only because of a declining understanding on the part of the masses they manipulate. Ludwig von Mises’ Omnipotent Government helps readers maintain that understanding.Read my complete review of this book over at 
  What Would The Founders Think?
I've read a few books on the causes of WWII and Hitler and the explanation provided in this book is one of the best accounts I have ever read.
If you are interested in WWII, economics, human nature, the general mindset of an advanced "cultured" society like the 19th to early 20th century Germans then this book should be your departure point.
Don't stop at Mein Kampf, or any other book supposing the answers to your questions.
The cost of entrance to this book is a small sum compared to the understanding you will reach after thumbing through any random 10 pages.
This book was absolutely fascinating. While I couldn't completely get behind some of his utilitarian arguments, the book as a whole was passionate, enlightening, and helped me to understand so much more than merely what Nazism was all about. It has helped me to understand where Nazism came from.
Great quote from this book: "No human cooperation and no lasting peace are conceivable if men put loyalty to any particular group above loyalty to humanity, moral law, and the principle of every individual’s moral responsibility and autonomy.”
Essential economic dissection of the totalitarian mindset.
Omnipotent Government by Ludwig Von Mises (2008)
As expected, Mises excels on economics, but most of the book is shockingly shortsighted on historical issues.
