https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11702.The_Labyrinth_of_Solitude_and_Other_Writings
as he puts it:"The whole history of Mexico, from the Conquest to the Revolution, can be regarded as a search for our own selves, which have been deformed or disguised by alien institutions, and for a form that will express them."the opening chapters (in which paz directly investigates the 'mask', the pachuco, the meaning and function of 'fiesta', myth, ritual, etc) are dark and poetic, but also somewhat academic and general...
it's only at chapter four 'The Conquest and Colonialism' that, for me, the book takes off into serious five star territory.
paz runs through the history of mexico less concerned with chronology and personality than why?
I usually hate to star-rate nonfictional papers.If you have read a snippet of "Labyrinth" (& let's face it--you HAVE: or else you know little about the Mexican race) you get the point.
The Mexican is a pariah who wears masks to hide inner feelings (sometimes the repressed bursts out...such as in its celebrations), and the country borrows dogmas that do not usually sit well with the Mexicans...
ergo disorder, even to this day.Paz has done a sociological paper right.
He gives authenticity to his thesis--& stuff like La Malinche and the Pachucos resonate.
I read this in almost romantic fervor, though its more like a guidebook.
El libro que todo mexicano debería de leer, me tarde tanto en terminarlo a pesar de su breve extensión porque no es posible digerir tanta realidad de golpe, hay que analizarlo, pensarlo y darle oportunidad de que se plante en nuestra conciencia.La obra de Octavio Paz se mantiene actual y firme al paso de los años, cambiamos tanto para ser los mismos de siempre, con el PRI de siempre y los problemas de siempre, la raza de los derrotados y del, termino aun no acuñado pero ya presente en el inconsciente, ya merito.
Perhaps Carlos Fuentes is right in saying there was the beginning of the Mexican revolution but Mexico has not really seen the end.Father Peñalosa in particular (a priest) gave me this book not only to find consolation in the feeling of detachment that I had from Mexican culture, a feeling of being left behind or being ignored, because it did not took long for me to have lost the air of a foreigner and having to adapt to a culture so family oriented was hard for me.Reading Paz was studying Mexican culture.
And after reading Octavio Paz's Labyrinth of Solitude, I can understand why.Paz brilliantly links Mexico's history with the question of "What makes a Mexican a Mexican?" It pervades every chapter in this book.
Mexico saw a lot of change in the 20 years after writing The Labyrinth of Solitude, namely the Mexican Olympics and the Tlatelolco massacre in 1968.
Paz brings this up and even goes so far as to criticize his own previous work and Mexico itself.One of the greatest non-fiction books ever written which can be read in various contexts, Labyrinth of Solitude is a gem that should be read by anyone interested in cultural analysis.
Required reading for anyone interested in Mexican history and literature. Really for anyone immersing themselves in the fiction and Literature south of our border. More specifically it served as a most excellent warm up to my reading News from the Empire. One might imagine every nation and/or culture having their Paz. And let's say nothing about it's place in post-colonial literature. Some works simply stand as models for what in other contexts might also be done.
Cosa distinta cuando lo lees siendo adulto, con un criterio formado y una idea, no importa que sea vaga, de como funcionan las cosas en México.
Dice Octavio Paz: "En todas sus dimensiones, de frente y de perfil, en su pasado y en su presente, el mexicano resulta un ser cargado de tradición que, acaso sin darse cuenta, actúa obedeciendo a la voz de la raza..."PAZ realiza un análisis del actuar del mexicano, su psique, sus temores, sus alegrías, a través de los etapas históricas más sobresalientes; la Conquista y la Colonia, la Guerra de Reforma, la Revolución y la época post-revolucionaria, hasta llegar a los años 1970's.Todos los mexicanos deberíamos leer este libro, y después, tal vez, quizá podamos hacer algo para hacer a un lado nuestros traumas...
There were also some parts of the book I did not care about, such as long discussions of the history of Mexico's many revolutions and a critique of each regime.Also, Paz states often as generalized facts things that, while he may be trying to present an image of common Mexico, seem rather poor, such as his discussion of Mexican women being pure passivity, an idea that I'm sure was not totally true at his own time, but which he might see as the historical-social ideal of the people.
The syntax of these passages make it look as if these are Paz's personal beliefs, which made me feel a bit annoyed with his philosophies, especially when it comes later to his discussion of Mexico needing to be femenized.
El laberinto de la Soledad es un libro que Todo Mexicano deberia de leer, ya que en el podemos encontrar un estudio hecho a nuestra sociedad de una manera critica y libre de malos prejuicios o favoritismos.Octavio Paz nos hace un recuento del porque de muchisimas cosas que nos aquejan como mexicanos, de una manera soberbia nos habre los ojos y nos explica por que somos unos Hijos de la Chingada, por que emigramos a US, por que exiten los Cholos, Pachucos y Chundos, por que solamente miramos de nuestro Choza para adentro y siempre buscamos Chingar al projimo...
Como Mexico no hay Dos!!!Saludos!jonah
Of course I am skeptical of Paz’s assertion that the Mexican (man) never reveals his True Character, is always wearing a mask and is always becoming the “other” of himself (except in times of Great Passion where his bottled emotions burst forth, resulting in Death, Orgasm, or Hangover).
Mexico was colonized by Europeans; modern mexican culture is a mixture of colonial Spaniards, indígenos, and African slaves.
Later, Paz mentions a couple times how Mexicans should strive to transcend their National Character and make art that is truly Universal.
Did Paz think that the goal of Mexican art should transcend the political altogether??Good question!
My infatuation with the Mexican mask culture must somehow mirror that of the Jungian persona; after all, man is amidst, in the words of José Corostiza, a "wilderness of mirrors." Paz has created an air of holistic realm, giving psychological, sociological, anthropological, and historical insights and adding the zest of poetry, artistic creation, and the art of love to conclude an interpretation and understanding of Mexican culture so vivid, yet so dark.The Labyrinth of Solitude presents an argument ranging in dynamics: from the Pachuco gangs to Mexican isolation, from Spanish conquest and colonization to the Revolution and Zapata, from the elaborate fiestas to the everyday masks of the Mexican, from adolescent creativity to feminist philosophy.
I still don't find Octavio Paz to be the best mexican writer (even if he's the only one with Nobel Prize), nor I think this is his best (as in therms of quality writing) book, but it's definitely it's most trascendental and important.
This collection of essays portray all the beauty, the magic and the sins hidden deep beneath the mexican culture.
I recommend it to every one that has a special liking to essays.
Another unforgettable book.
Esta obra de Octavio Paz, da un acercamiento muy bueno a lo que hace al mexicano, ser mexicano. Mi capítulo favorito "Todos Santos, Día de muertos" narra perfectamente lo que es la fiesta del mexicano, para lo cual te sientes totalmente identificado cuándo las has vivido tal como lo narra Octavio Paz. A este libro lo marcaría con un "debes de leerlo" si quieres entender parte del pensamiento mexicano.
Paz writes with such clarity, his beautiful and complete prose shedding light on his homeland to the passing strangers who are the readers of the book.
In the first section of the book, the chapters were well laid-out to bring a point across to readers progressively.However, it would have been a 5-star rating if not for the second part of the book that I thought was denser and more emotionally charged, and therefore possessed less control and clarity.
What Paz calls 'the Mexican's willingness to contemplate horror' is still very much on display.
The bourgeoisie that Paz so actively despised has won the day.In fact, this sort of cultural summing up, attractive as it may be, has always stumbled on the disorderly facts of the multiplicity of individual lives.So: read this and prize it for the insights it may give into this grand thing called Mexican Civilization, but don't be disappointed when the Mexico you meet rarely corresponds.
He knows that our world-view is a choice, a construct, and that we are lost--this is true even 60 years after the first publication of his essay.
The old answers do not work: "...all the modes of development that we know, whether they come from the West or the East, lead to disaster" for both humans and the earth.Paz speaks mostly about Mexican society, but places it in context, both historically and geographically.
I only wish he had answers as penetrating and true as the thoughtful questions he asks the reader to consider.
Pero en vez de creer que se trata de un análisis de México y su idiosincracia, lo creo el grito de un intelectual que se ve a sí mismo en un país hostil y profundamente indiferente.
Crítico consigo mismo, aspira a una comunión con sus compatriotas, ofreciéndoles un programa en el que se reflejen, identifiquen, y que adopten.
México lo celebra, pero no lo comprende.
Con su premio Nobel, se reafirma la profunda soledad que lo aísla del resto de sus compatriotas.Esta edición tiene cuatro textos adicionales sobre el laberinto.
El único que vale la pena es el María Zambrano -una diosa-.
Desde la historia de la conquista de México, hasta la espiritualidad de la fiesta, hasta la sociológica de las palabrotas, casi cada página enseña algo nuevo y brillante.Recomiendo El laberinto de la soledad para todos que tienen un interés en filosofía o ciencias sociales.
Este libro cambió mi perspectiva como muy pocos otros que he leído.______An excellent book, full of wisdom and strength, written in a style that is soft like poetry and profound like the best philosophy.
From the history of the conquest of Mexico, to the spirituality of celebrations, to the sociology of curse words, almost every page teaches something new and brilliant.I highly recommend The Laberith of Solitude to everyone who has an interest in philosophy or social science.
Intense, richly written essays on history and society from a deeply perceptive mind.
Now, granted, I don't know nearly enough about Mexican history to be able to verify or falsify his statements about various Mexican leaders and ideologies, but they're impressive arguments, and good groundwork for why Mexico remained a semi-colonial state decades after independence.
Delving deep into topics ranging from 19th Century debates over positivism, the role of the fiesta in village life, Aztec myth, the omnipresence of death in Mexican society, this is in many ways both a harsh rebuke and an open-hearted love letter to Paz's homeland, and contains some of the finest social essays I've ever read.
THE book to read if you want to start learning more about Mexico. I have lived in the country for five years and regret that I waited so long to read this. A truly great book.
It pays dividends that way, but by no means do I mean that the original "Labyrinth of Solitude" is "slow" or "hard to get into." It's not, though of the constituent parts of this edition it dates itself the most--and I even mean that relatively.
The shortest way to put it is that it's a book about the idea of Mexico rather than the situation of Mexico.
One can read "The Labyrinth of Solitude" and find it insightful while not really agreeing with it.
It's that prescience beyond the surface subject matter that makes this a 5-star book and a touchstone that will likely lead to further reading in a few directions.
My theory was, if I left my brain alone to churn, it would eventually settle upon some clever-ish thought or two that would wrap Paz's masterpiece up in just a couple of paragraphs.
I didn't find terribly useful the parts of the book that everybody talks about (the chapters on the pachuco, Mexican masks and fiestas, and La Chingada), but really loved the chapters nobody talks about (the history of Mexico since before colonization).
I'm not sure I buy Paz's characterization of Conquest as a form of mass Aztec suicide, but it's certainly food for thought (and fodder for footnotes).2.
The Labyrinth of Solitude★★★★This collection of nine essays first published in 1950 had, in my edition, four later essays entitled "The Other Mexico"; "Return to the Labyrinth of Solitude" and "Mexico and the United States", the later being the most interesting .
I understood that he wrote for the Mexican public in the post WWII period, and presupposed a knowledge of Mexico and its culture.
Perhaps he is alluding to the Mexican culture being not yet mature?
For a taste of the tenor of this interesting essay collection I quote the final paragraph"Modern man likes to pretend that his thinking is wide-awake.
Giving clear consequences of the Conquest and Spanish Colonialism Paz made the bridge to 20th century regarding to US-Mexican international relations.The collection of another essays "The Other Mexico" focus on Olympics and Tlatelco and the year "1968" which for me as a Czech means significant year in the 20th century.To sum up, this collection of the essays, became classic and belongs to one of the books which should be read in the context of Latin American authors.
Al ser mexicano y haber vivido en México toda mi vida tuve la posibilidad de corroborar la exactitud con la que este análisis se hizo, y lo que más me sorprendió fue encontrarme cara a cara con lo que Paz llama la "máscara" del mexicano y como además ha cambiado, porque este libro contiene muchas cosas que son pero también muchas cosas que dejaron de ser, el mexicano ha cambiado y este libro escrito hace más de 60 años habla de un México distinto al actual, pero que de alguna manera oculta aún sigue siendo el mismo.Sin duda muchos lo leerán y no estarán de acuerdo con Paz, o al menos no en todos los puntos; pero este libro ofrece un análisis tan profundo que es sin duda un libro que al menos todos los mexicanos deberíamos leer en algún momento.Una crítica y análisis.
Во-первых, прежде чем начинать читать эту книгу, все должны понимать, что это эссе, а не новела.
По-видимому, автор пытался объяснить природу мексиканского менталитета, почему мексиканцы такие как они есть, какими историческими причинами это обусловлено.
Автор использует очень много обобщенных идей и слов, которые вроде чего-то говорят, но ничего не объясняют.
Как пример приведу "Los mexicanos somos un pueblo triste y sarcástico" - что это вообще значит?
Так и хочется спросить, а автор был вообще заграницей, ему есть с чем сравнивать?
Да и вообще, разве можно так сильно обобщать?
В любом случае, чтиво это не простое, явно не для метро и не для пляжа, читать надо вдумчиво и внимательно.
Éste es posiblemente uno de los libros más profundos y complicados que jamás he leído.
Es impresionante como alguien puede apretujar en pequeño libro de no más de 300 páginas toda una descripción de una cultura tan entretejida y variada como lo es la cultura Mexicana.Paz esconde en un renglón todo un mundo de significados ocultos, mensajes encriptados y pensamientos implícitos que hacen de esta lectura uno de los textos más ricos, pero también más densos, que uno nunca acaba de comprender por completo.Al menos yo, a mis 18 años, estoy segura que aún me faltaron muchas capas por desdoblar.
Es un libro que podrías leer por toda la eternidad y no terminarlo jamás en toda su amplitud.
Es en libro escrito hace unos 60 años, pero que al leerlo parece de actualidad.
A través de los años seguimos teniendo los mismos problemas.
Y no solamente Paz lo ha dicho, sino otros pensadores de nuestra época, Mexico debe dejar de voltear al norte y encontrarse con sus hermanos del sur.
Puedo decir mucho y a la vez terminar cantinfleando, pero sin duda este libro me ha dejado huella, que debo admitir no es sencillo de leer al principio, pero conforme se avanza en la lectura, se hace un póco más digerible.
Un libro que todo mexicano debe leer y analizar.
Había tratado de leer este libro antes y hace poco lo vi en la biblioteca, pensé que quizá ahora que puedo ver más claramente las diferencias culturales sería mejor leerlo. Tiene ideas interesantes aunque es bastante deprimente, me gusta el análisis social que hace sobre nuestro uso de palabras, al parecer las malas palabras, las palabras "tabú" siempre son las que dicen más sobre cómo somos, sobre lo que tememos y sobre lo que queremos ser.
Paz...EL Maestro...Marcada como su obra cumbre, al leerlo podrás atestiguar que su opinión de México y el mexicano es fiel, objetivo, pintoresco y lo mejor: está vigente a pesar de que se publicó hace 60 años. Nuestros muertos y nuestro culto a la muerte, el albur, "la chingada" madre de todos los mexicanos, el pachuco. Un buen manual, si no para comprendernos, sí para retratarnos y vernos retratados en él. Buen provecho!
