https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13206900-winter
“She was prettier than a bouquet of roses and crazier than a headless chicken. Fitting in was not an option.” And... I've finished! *sob*The last few weeks have been a whirlwind of Lunar Chronicles. After finally giving in and picking up Scarlet, even though I hated Cinder, I just haven't been able to get enough of this series. And this longass final installment was a heart-pounding, fast-paced finale.You know, I actually checked and this is the longest YA book I have ever read at over 820 page
She gets the amount of each just right, changing up enough to keep it surprising and exciting, but slotting in many parallels to the original stories that often catch me by surprise and make me smile.I also love how far the relationships have come.
Each character is very different, but important in her own way, and together they make a funny, lovable team.The book wraps up very well, delivering a dramatic and bloody climax.
As I've said about the previous two books: this might not be great literature, but it sure is a rush of wild excitement.And can we all just take a moment to talk about how great Thorne is?
*Sees release date*
THIS WAS AMAZING! It was exactly what I wanted from a series finale--epic, intense, emotional, and satisfying! Just like with the previous books, I loved the world, the characters, the story, and the writing. This is one of my favorite series of all time, and I'm so so happy with this beautiful conclusion!If you like sci-fi, fairy tale retellings, or you just want to read an epic & satisfying series--YOU NEED THE LUNAR CHRONICLES IN YOUR LIFE!
I’m going to miss these little train wrecks. I’m going to miss the banter between Cinder and Thorne. I’m going to miss all the relationships & friendships. I’m going to miss my sassy queen Iko. I'm going to miss this series so much. AHHH. THIS IS ALL JUST SO BITTERSWEET. WOW.UPDATE - Full video review here: https://youtu.be/KIcWKgTN294
WHAT A FANTASTIC FINALE!!!!!! I LOVED IT. HERE'S My full review/ discusison booktalk! https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qaaxw...
Loved every second spent reading this.
After finishing the last page, I got a little teary. From finishing not only a fantastic book, but also one of my favourite series. I don't really know what to do now...
She screamed like the palace was burning down around her.“Hold these wires and make sure they don’t touch.”“What happens if they touch?”“The ship will probably self-destruct.”She was going to have to train herself not to stare at him quite as often as she was used to.
Much safer to act crazy, when in doubt.In a moment of weakness, he craned his head and kissed her on the shoulder, where the drop of blood had fallen before.He laughed, like someone had stabbed him in the chest and he had no other choice but to find it amusing.She was prettier than a bouquet of roses and crazier than a headless chicken.
It’s kind of a point system.”She still looked furious, but now she also looked a little intimidated.
“Even in the Future the Story Begins with Once Upon a Time.”  Once Upon a Time, there was a lonely girl who dreamed too much. Her name was Katerina. She used to gaze at the sky and observe the faint light of the moon. One night, she watched a falling star and made a wish. She wished that she would belong. Escape. Travel. Feel. Little did she know that her heart's desire was about to be granted. For when the star landed on Earth, it took a woman's form. In some stories they call her the fairy g
Marissa Meyer searched for the best way to make wishes come true, but the answer was simple.
Katerina found in Winter everything she ever wanted.
These four girls were different, but were bound together by a common goal and a friendship that didn't know planets and social status.
And I will be the first ruler in the history of Luna who will also fight for you.”
Katerina loved them all, for their strangeness and their flaws, their loyalty and their hearts.
She did find Winter a little long, but stars above!
Once Upon a Time, Katerina finished Winter.
She held the book against her heart and looked at the sky.
She experiences bad hallucinations and her mental state is deteriorating."ME:Winter is going to be such an interesting character I'm so excited!
After Reading Cress So, without too many spoilers, I'm just going to leave this little exchange here: Winter:  "You shouldn't call me crazy.
They don't like that." Other Character:  "But you are!" Winter:  "I know that I am.
...If the blood was real, the servants would've cleaned it up by now, don't you think?"And my reaction:FAVORITE CHARACTER STATUS ACHIEVEDWHY DOESN'T THIS BOOK EXIST YET UPDATE Wow much likes.
But seriously thanks for all the likes, guys!
4.5/5A great conclusion for such a wonderful series! A TAD underwhelmed by the ending, but it was action packed and all of my little babies ended up where I wanted them, so I'm happy!
I just love how Snow White will be a person of color. Totally wasn't expecting that. Is it Winter yet?
Despite the immense page length + because of the cumulative nature of the series, it felt like the 8 main characters were fighting for page time to the point that no character had much/any development.
I loved the character of Princess Winter, but felt like no attention was given at all to her.
>:/ *commence rant* (view spoiler)[The end of the book makes it seem like Levana should be dethroned NOT because she has committed genocide, or tried and successfully killed thousands, if not millions of people through biowarfare, or even the other countless crimes that she has committed.
-_- (hide spoiler)] *end rant*sad right now at the unfulfilled potential of a conclusion that could have done this incredible series justice.
I don't want to give out any kind of spoilers since so many people are reading this book right now or are going to be reading.
So, this review is going to be filled with some excerpts from the book and pictures because that's what I want to do.
but I'm still happy :) •••••••••••••• EXCERPTS •••••••••••••"Did I tell you I saw snow when I was on Earth?"Winter stopped walking, her eyes going wide.
I am the daughter of the late Queen Channary, niece to Princess Levana, and the rightful heir to Luna's throne."••••••••••••••••"I am guilty of the crimes you listed," she said.
Reviewed by: Rabid ReadsI've been a champion of THE LUNAR CHRONICLES for years now. I saw CINDER featured for months and months on  Fantastic Fiction  (b/c before I started using Goodreads), and I was simultaneously intrigued and horrified by the concept of a sci-fi YA retelling of a fairy tale. Honestly, I don't remember what finally convinced me to pick it up. I was just glad I did.Now I'm not so sure. The first two books were fantastic, and while I wasn’t quite as fond of the third, it wasn’t
I don't know if Meyer couldn't maintain the quality of writing we've become accustomed to, or if she was frazzled from trying to fit everything in, but WINTER was choked with clumsily handled side plots.Parts of the story evolution are so lazy, it's almost like Meyer expected the leftover adrenaline from all the BAD THINGS, the one area where she continued to excel (unexpectedly dropping truly horrible obstacles on our MCs), to carry us right over the discrepancies.
3.75* if I'm being specificI really enjoyed this, it was a great action packed conclusion but boy was it long. It kind of felt like the same thing over and over again after a while. Honestly I wish Fairest hadn't happened and this had been split into 2 books instead. The ending was meh but overall this was a very enjoyable series!!
I'M NOT CRYING, YOU'RE CRYING
4.5 stars "I can't believe this is happening. I can't fight like this, or start a revolution, or be a queen. I can't do anything like this. I'm literally broken."Iko settled a hand on Cinder's shoulder. "Yeah, but broken isn't the same as unfixable." Winter isn't perfect. Marissa Meyer has some very big shoes to fill. Expectations are high, fans are passionate... but I do feel she left us with a largely satisfying ending.I know what a lot of non-readers are wondering: does it drag? Surprisingly,
(hide spoiler)]My guess—and I'm pretty sure I'm right—is Meyer needed make some waves for the Scarlet/Wolf ship.
Everyone else had their problems: Kai is supposed to marry Levana; Thorne and Cress are caught in that adorable, frustrating period of does-he-or-she-like-me?; and Winter is a freaking princess while Jacin is a lowly guard.
[Jacin:] "She wants to kill you, Princess."Winter shivered, first with the intensity of his words, and second with their meaning.
Winter is named after the character, but it isn't so much her story as it is Cinder's.
I never confuse Cress for Cinder, or Kai for Wolf.
A good 300 pages could have been cut without the audience missing anything important.Further, I hate to say this but for a story that is so progressive about minorities and women in STEM, some of the characters are just flat.
Of course, even with adblocking apps like Crystal, this is too much of a fantasy to even hope for in our modern times.Even with all of its problems, I have to say that this cover is my favorite of the entire series:(But the whole apple thing is kinda forced here in how it's implemented, tbh.)
things about this book that are cute:- Cress- Thorne- Cress and Thornethings about this book that are not cute:- the fact that it is 827 PAGES LONG.review to comeee-----------uh, this book is...long-----------if this book doesn't break my heart and make me cry i Will demand a refund
OHMYGREATLUNARFEELINGS.I just finished Cress ten minutes ago.During the ten minutes after I had finished Cress:How I feel when I see the release date for Winter:HOW SHALL I MAKE IT?O, Jacin and Winter, I await greedily.Come to mamaOh please I'm dying.Dear Ms. Meyer,Please give me this book lest I turn into a crazed and handsome half wolf, half lunar rabid warrior.
Nothing will stand between me and my Alpha my Scarlet my book.
There will be no mercy unless my demands are remedied.Of course, if you don't have the book written by now, I will be reasonable and lenient and allow you a week to complete the book.
They are each other's rocks in a world full of crazy.*Kai & Cinder, still a little awkward, but endearing as they're finally able to be a unit.I love them all.
In that order, because sometimes I like to play favorites.And a star for every other brilliant thing Marissa does with her final book.
One of my favorite things about this series is how unique each personality is, each romance is, each friendship is.
I will love this motley crew of the Rampion - including Iko, still boy crazy, still hilarious - until the stars fade.
Bravo.This review can also be found at Love at First Page.
it truly felt like a finale, showcasing and celebrating what makes these books so great.there are a lot of positives about this, but i think the characters are the biggest accomplishment of this series.
lets face it, the characters are the real reason why any of us continued with these books and i know we all have our favourites (cough WOLF cough).
and its these characters that i will forever remember when it comes to these books.
there isnt much else i can say that hasnt already been said about this book and series.
"Broken isn't the same as unfixable.”A grand finale!This had everything I'm looking for in a conclusion of a series.
Everyone got a satisfying and even happily ever after.
Satisfying is actually the best word to describe this novel.
Often the last installment of a good series is a let-down ( End of Days  or Clockwork Princess).But this one had it all: suspense, romance and diversity (even though I really missed glbt-characters).Great world-building and character-depth.
Feminism.I am very thankful for Marissa Meyer writing  the Lunar Chronicles .
Every single book was an amazing read and I can't wait for her new projects.Find more of my books on Instagram
4.5/5I HAVE A LOT OF FEELINGS DON'T TOUCH ME RIGHT NOW.I really really loved this book.
I loved reading about Luna and picturing everything, especially the throne roomI can't really totally give it a 5 stars because it just felt so long and like so many things happened at the beginning that there wasn't really a climax - that being said, it was really exciting basically all the time.
SO MANY THINGS HAPPENED SO MANY.I loved the ending and I could totally do with more books just because I want MORE but it was a very satisfying ending.
I loved cinder from the the very beginning, and her badass mechanic toughness got me going so early on, I was sure I would continue this series.
But then when I read SCARLET, I was like holy mother, there is a second to main character that I ship more than the main.
Overall this concluding novel, was intriguing, action filled, exhilaratingly heart warming, and about another hundred something adjectives I could use, but I think I've made my point......I would recommend this series to anyone that loves a good story and plot with a brilliant idea based characterization and incredibly authentic setting.
Solid 4.5 STARS.  “Do me a favor, Princess. The next time someone says they're going to kill you, don't just let them.”  I finished this! Again. They left me. Again. It's a bittersweet feeling. On one hand, I am completely satisfied with how Meyer decided to tie things up, but then on the other, i wouldn't have minded another book. Things felt a little rushed at times? The only complaint I have is Thorne and Cress's relationship. It feels wrong? I don't know about you guys but Cress is like a ch
Things felt a little rushed at times?
The only complaint I have is Thorne and Cress's relationship.
It feels wrong?
I don't know about you guys but Cress is like a child in my head.
Don't get me wrong, i still love the shit out of him.
All I'm trying to say is he and Cress don't make much sense, or maybe as a couple, they lack development.
I think Thorne would be more suitable for someone like Scarlet and Cress with Wolf.
May is my reread month!How do you feel about each character?Iko: She needs to get together with AIDAN and take over this horrible world.
So PERFECT! This will always be one of my favorite series! Highly recommend if you love fairy tale retellings or sci fi!Full discussion with spoilers will be written tomorrow! Its late!
Buddy Reading the fourth and final book of the Lunar Chronicles with none other than Blue Boo Bear <3Rating: ★ ★ ★ ★ ★ / 5 starsLead Male Character: ★ ★ ★ ★ / 5 starsLead Female Character: ★ ★ ★ ★ / 5 starsPlotline: ★ ★ ★ ★ ★ / 5 starsGenre: Dystopian, action, adventure, fairytale-retelling, and romance Will I recommend this book to others?: YES!Will I reread this book?: Definitely!
Definitely an awesome conclusion to such a wonderful series!
The Lunar Chronicles is for sure going on my "All Time Favorite Series List!"
4.5 stars. Satisfying ending, great series overall. Had fun.
