https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/55022.The_Neon_Rain
This is a revised review as of 4/14/2013 with some images to add flavor.It's like a lot of detective novels set in the 1980s except the real standouts are the fact that it's New Orleans and the author gets that particular sub culture. Burke has an elegant prose and his main character, David Robicheaux, is engaging.  Robicheaux is a 50-something hard boiled detective who survived the Vietnam War yet is still haunted by it and thus turns to drinking (though it becomes evident later he was drinking
This is a revised review as of 4/14/2013 with some images to add flavor.It's like a lot of detective novels set in the 1980s except the real standouts are the fact that it's New Orleans and the author gets that particular sub culture.
But even all those reading pleasures are a still a notch down from the character of New Orleans/The Bayou with its balmy heat waves, summer rains, Poorboy sandwiches, evening skies that are the color of torn plums, cicadas in the purple haze, fireflies lighting up the trees, and, of course, the charm of not just New Orleans but its French Quarter.
The first book I read by James Lee Burke was Wayfaring Stranger.
It was an unbelievably good book and I wanted to read more from this author.
How could I let so many years go by without reading another book by this great author?
I guess that I should consider myself lucky to have so many choices,Neon Rain is James Lee Burke's first Dave Robicheaux book and I knew before reading it that he survived because of all the Dave Robicheaux series that came after.
But outside that usual plot line, James Lee Burke paints vivid pictures of New Orleans so that I felt like I was actually there enjoying the sights, sounds and smells.
Here's what happened.It took me right back to New Orleans which I visited about the time the novel was written.It opened a hardcore window into a man’s soul as he daily struggles to say no to the siren call of alcoholism.It brought back all the reasons I participated in anti-Vietnam War marches, though I really had no honest clue at the time.It was sick with violence, oh so dark, made me wince; so why read it?
He can keep the reader in a state of animated reading enjoyment even when the story gets chaotic with all the myriad characters and heat going down as it did with this one.
Great Louisiana atmosphere and a good deal of violence in this, the first of the Dave Robicheaux mysteries. Entertaining but not compelling.
I know an author setting a book in a city known for its food like New Orleans would really want to get the regional flavor across by having the characters chow down on the local cuisine, but do they really eat that many po’ boy sandwiches down there?
Dave Robicheaux is a recovering alcoholic, a Vietnam vet (Yet again confirming my theory that all tough guy hero characters created in the ‘80s are Vietnam vets.), and a police lieutenant in New Orleans.
His first sentence guaranteed I would keep reading: "The evening sky was streaked with purple, the color of torn plums, and a light rain had started to fall when I came to the end of the blacktop road that cut through twenty miles of thick, almost impenetrable scrub oak and pine and stopped at the front gate of Angola penitentiary."The ultimate connections between the unknown woman's drowning, (view spoiler)[the Columbians, the federal agents and the general (hide spoiler)] are a bit confusing, but after some thought, I decided I rather liked it.
Two months ago I’d never even heard of James Lee Burke never mind the renowned Dave Robicheaux, a New Orleans’s detective who is the main character in a twenty book series and there’s also a couple of films about the guy.
So got to be worth a try, right.The Neon Rain is fast approaching thirty years old but that didn’t matter in the slightest, as I was completely blown away by a story I just couldn’t stop listening to.
I’ve already got quite a few books lined up by James Lee Burke, only wish I’d discovered him years ago.http://paulnelson.booklikes.com/post/...
I bought about five copies of the hard cover and passed them out to my friends. This is an amazingly good book. Got Mr. Burke to sign my copy. Now I kind of wish I would have kept a couple as the first edition sell for between $300 and $500 dollars in good shape, but at the time I enjoyed the book so much I wanted to have every one I know read it.
Dave Robicheaux is your quintessential hard-boiled detective, struggling with anger issues, inner demons and alcohol. When he's not out bashing bad guys, he is waxing poetically about the meaning of life and who makes the best beignets (PS: The answer is Cafe du Monde). The only thing that makes him different from other great tough guy detectives is that he speaks with a Cajun accent. Who doesn't love that?
I've got through some dark books--but this one didn't have glints of humor nor did the narrator/protagonist, Dave Robicheaux, provide any moral center.
Around page 50 or so, Dave is being tortured--water boarded essentially--by what he recognizes as "spook" types.
Problem was, by then, I couldn't see any moral distinction between their abuse of power and what he and his partner had done as cops in roughing up and threatening a potential witness and a bodyguard.
From what I read this might possibly be a good, even powerful book--but if, like me, your tolerance for the low-down dark side isn't high, you might want to skip this one.
A tightly woven and gritty police procedural set in New Orleans. Really enjoyed the main character Dave Robicheaux and will no doubt go on to read more in the series. Robicheaux was a deeply flawed character, plagued by inner demons but had integrity and perseverance.The mystery component was well delivered I didn't realise how it would all play out and that's always a plus. Loved the setting and descriptions of a lush and humid New Orleans. Well worth a look at.
The court sentences you to be exiled for five years on a deserted island.
No Britney Spear's poster (a hardship for many of you).You are allowed a Kindle and a hand cranked device to keep it charged.
Then you are told, "Pick one author!"Vince Flynn.
Lee Child.
All these authors pass through my head in an instant.
How can I only be allowed one author?
Then the answer hits me.I smirk thinking, "Screw you judge!" I respond with, "I will take all of James Lee Burke!" With Burke I can do one hundred years standing on my head.
4.5This is hardcore crime at its best.
Detective Dave Robicheaux is one of the good guys at heart, an officer that still believes in justice and the welfare of others, but he is also one bad, bad dude, and if he has to bend the laws a little to bring about justice you better not get in his way.The only chink in the armor of this novel is that Daves toughness at times crossed the line into what I can only call stupidity...
but hey, he's only human, and I would damn sure never say it to his face.
I will certainly be checking out more of this series.
It's like a lot of detective novels set in the 1980s except the real standouts are the fact that it's New Orleans and the author gets that particular sub culture.
In this first novel Robicheaux gets caught up in the death of a black prostitute who everybody else seems to want to write off yet Robicheaux feels strangely compelled to poke his nose into things which leads to resistance not only from the mob but his own allies the police.
Word on the street is that the series gets better in time and that's a real good sign as this was a solid and enjoyable book.
This first installment of James Lee Burke's Dave Robicheaux series was my introduction to this author, and I was quite pleased with the experience!
This part of New Orleans never seemed to change, and somehow its confirmation of yesterday on a rainy summer night always dissipated my own fears about time and mortality."Detective Dave Robicheaux is a fantastically flawed individual and the characterization here is top notch.
A Vietnam vet with a history of alcoholism, Dave grew up in a broken home with his brother and his rough-around-the-edges but loving father.
I know I won't hesitate to read the next in this series or any other James Lee Burke novel for that matter.
This is the first novel in the series featuring Dave Robicheaux, a detective with the New Orleans police department.
His recovery, which is only a daily reprieve, is endangered as is his career and a new relationship he is in.I think it is the flaws and demons that Dave Robicheaux must deal with that make him such a compelling character.
In Dave Robicheaux and his ability to battle his demons and his new relationship with Annie.
It just got to be too much.Another buzz-kill is the fact that I am so sick and flipping tired of the tendency common in the mass entertainment media to condone the use of torture and murder by police officers during the execution of their duties.
Robicheaux and colleagues murder and torture and this fact put me off the book a bit.I would have five-starred this for writing and two-starred it for plot.
It ends up with what I feel may be an over-generous four stars.I'll probably go on to read another book in this series, just to be sure.
A riveting and exciting book from beginning to end, The Neon Rain is an unforgettable crime novel.
It's still good and so far not too dated to be entertaining.* * * * *The book was okay and Burke is very descriptive of N'Orleans, but I didn't find Dave to be a very sympathetic character.
There was a lot of useless murder and bloodshed and some long-winded, esoteric flashbacks of Dave's past that didn't add much to the storyline.* * * * *7/15/17 - Okay, on my second reading I've upped the rating from two to three stars.
Today I'm going to start the second in the series, _Heaven's Prisoners_, which was made into a movie starring Alec Baldwin.
When I heard there is some sort of fan club for this Dave Robicheaux guy, I was curious to see if I'll join.
:-) It turns out my library overdrive has quite a few of the Robicheaux books in the series, so I started with no 1.
If anything, although I don't read this genre often, the story was very familiar: damaged cop, ex Vietnam soldier, with PTSD and addiction problems; divorced; not doing things by the book, but he's a "straight shooter" with a strong moral compass.
I felt like I've read/seen this story before.
“Enjoy detective fiction?”, they asked.“Read a Dave Robicheaux book.”, they said.So I did.And now I have a problem. I feel both soiled and exhilarated in equal measure.This is some good detective fiction, but damn is it gritty. I regret nothing.
The Neon RainThis is the first James Lee Burke novel I've read in a very long time. I decided to start at the beginning and re-read all of his novels in order and with this first book I'm not disappointed. I can't wait to start the next book in the Dave Robicheaux series.
IMHO Burke's books are especially enjoyable in audio, because of all the regional flavors and the natural cadences inherent in his writing.
I personally prefer Hammer's vocal timbre and style for Robicheaux -- he has a rough, world-weary sound that fits Dave perfectly -- but Patton is very good as well, and he also has the advantage of being a native Southerner.But enough about narrators and prose.
I can't wait to see what Burke does with Dave over the course of the series, and I'll definitely be reading several more of these books.
Should have done better research.Liked this book a lot and had to go through a thought process to determine four or five stars.
I really liked the book though and it set up the Dave Robicheaux character with more background info.
Dave has his own rule book and he will hunt you down and come after you.
Burke's writing was almost poetic, prose like, and lyrical in some instances.
It was after all the violence and the final outcome and then this lovely use of the English language.
"This was the war [Vietnam] that an American President called a holy cause*," writes Burke of the horrors his detective, Dave Robicheaux, tries to exorcise from his soul and live a fantasy/normal life.
James Lee Burke is THE modern American Noir writer: Robicheaux is today's Mike Hammer (in the beautifully plotted, blood-drenched "I, The Jury" by Mickey Spillane specifically) with the investigative abilities of Ross Macdonald's Lew Archer or Hammett's Sam Spade.
In past novels, I've looked for plots, but there is just one: Detective Robicheaux wants a simple life and the world is intent on ensuring he doesn't find it.
James Lee Burke is brilliant, brutal, unexpected, and thoroughly American.
If anything Mr Burke does know how to write a complex story as well, and he brings the Bayous and New Orleans to life on paper.
It is my biggest failure of of not visiting the Big Easy before Kathrina and somehow the writer does bring that lost world back to life.Dave Robicheaux, a brilliant name, visits a man on dead row and finds out he might have some dead sentence of his own hanging over his head.
The story contains some references to a war in Middle America which might be unfamiliar to readers of a younger age, just look it up if you want to learn more about stupid US foreign interventions.
This book is the first in a series and it is the first book I've read by this author.
His writing was fun to pay attention to.
He periodically punctuated the story with some extremely frilly flourishes, but I loved that.
He had a great way with words.
And yet in other areas, he showed a great economy of word usage.
I was intrigued by this type of writing.
The story was kind of dark in places, but it didn't feel like an exhibition.
Again, the writing worked here.
While this isn't usually a story I'd gravitate to, I felt I could understand the characters in their own world.

I really wanted to like this, and I'm not entirely sure why I didn't.
I love detective stories, roguish anti-heroes, and New Orleans.
I loved Will Patton's narration.
But something about the story just seemed to fall in the uncanny valley -- it was too unbelievable to be realistic, but too realistic to accept as a noir or camp style decision.
Also -- and this may have contributed to it feeling "too" realistic -- it seemed overwritten and unnecessarily descriptive at points.
When a trio of mysterious goons attack him in the house of his new girlfriend, Dave goes ballistic, Rambo style, takes the law into his own hands and brings the war to the enemy camp.There's no point in giving more details about the plot: it is not as straightforward as I make it sound, and I don't want to spoil the surprises and the outcome of the investigation.
