https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/215059.The_Master_Puppeteer
I'm glad to see this got some awards, but how did it not even get a Newbery Honor, when it has all the favorite ingredients that many of the Winners have?
It's exciting, it teaches about a period of history in Japan; it's got funny bits; it teaches about the theater, especially Japanese puppets; it models values of loyalty, honor, courage....It should be in every fifth-grade classroom, and everybody who reads juvenile HF should read it, and I don't see how kids haven't marked it as a favorite timeless classic.
The Master Puppeteer is of course another favorite. It is the story of Sabura, a Japanese Robin Hood who steals from the rich to help the very poor in the Japanese feudal system. Jiro,an apprentice, learn’s from the puppet master’s son (Kinshi) the trade of both making and using beautiful puppets for entertainment. As the hungry crowd mobs and the authorities furiously search for the true identity of Sabura, Jiro is caught in the middle between Yoshida his master and his family. Fantastic suspense combined with historical fiction.
Novel yang berkisah tentang seorang bocah di Osaka di sekitar tahun 1700-an, saat masyarakat Jepang umumnya kekurangan pangan sementara para pedagang, samurai, dan Daimyo menyibukkan diri dengan perang yang berkelanjutan.Si Bocah, Jiro, meninggalkan rumah orang tuanya dan memilih untuk mengabdi pada sebuah teater boneka yang dipimpin oleh Yoshida.
Di tempat itu ia berteman baik dengan Yoshida Kinshi, putra si ketua, yang tidak terlalu berbakat untuk menjadi dalang boneka.
Di saat yang sama, seorang pencuri budiman seringkali merampok dari para saudagar dan pejabat dan kemudian membagi-bagikan beras kepada orang miskin.
Paterson did a lot of research to write this book and she really wanted the reader to know that but it came off like an outsider writing about something that wasn't really hers to write about; it often felt forced and awkward.
I never felt drawn into the story.It galloped at full speed in the last few pages to clear up so many loose ends and Paterson's efforts to create an unnecessary element of suspense just served to confuse me even more - why did Osaka corner Jiro in the attic in such menacing fashion when he really had no intention of harming him and why on earth did Kinshi's hand get cut off?
There are a lot of underdog stories about kids trying to make in the big leagues of whatever their passion is; in this case Kabuki theater.
The story (riddled with enigmatic and super well developed characters) starts as a hungry boy is apprenticed into a theater, learning the trade, etc., but it quickly dissolves into one of espionage, historical intrigue, and mystery as the identity of the local Robin Hood is at stake while he swindles rice and money from the cruel Samurai.
The plot twists in a gut-wrenching way near the end, which makes the story all the better.
This a wonderful junior high-school level novel that serves as a perfect introduction to Japanese culture for children. It is also a great segway into more difficult Japanese ceremony novels such as "The Great Teahouse Fire," and "Memoirs of a Geisha." Overall, A-.
Me parece un libro de aventuras muy bueno para pubertos mayores de 12, adolescentes, jóvenes y adultos con ganas de leer una historia ligera y bien desarrollada. Seguro lo encontrarán entretenido e interesante. La escritora y este libro están premiados.
im done grat book btw OKADA IS Saburo! Hanji works for him and he wasnt sick and kinshi lost his haand
On his way back to the theater, he is attacked by a ronin but saved by Yoshida, who was supposed to be sick in bed.Okada writes a new play about a bandit called Joman.
One night, the bandit Saburo leaves a note at the theater demanding they put on a special performance of the play for the city's poor.
He is afraid of Yoshida, so he decides to appeal to Okada, to see if Saburo will meet with Kinshi.
3.5 starsI read this to my sons.
There were a lot of characters to follow, but the main ones were Jiro, a son of a puppet maker, who wants to be a puppeteer (and also survive after his family has suffered from starvation).
He makes a good friend named Kinshi, the son of the head puppeteer.
There is a known samurai out on the run Saburo who is like a Robin Hood.
This was an interesting story, indeed.
My sons however, felt this story was so sad.
they liked it, but didn't want such a sad story.
I remember I read this book several times when I was young, and it sparked a fascination with bunraku and Japanese theater forms in general.
When I spent one week in Japan when I was 13 or 14, I made sure to go to a bunraku performance.
There are wonderful details that are accurate to Japanese culture and history, and I'm sure this book was one part of why I ended up studying Japanese culture and language for many years.

Another classic of hers though I think not read as much these as it should be.
Even though it takes place in Japan long ago and is about puppetry there are so many applicable themes that relate to youth today: sacrificing for parents, growing up before your ready, friendship...
This novel was classic of Katherine Paterson in that a lot of hard things but still so much hope.
A great read for thirteen and up the setting of Japan and all the names and puppetry terms do make it more tricky for readers though worth the struggle.
It was a great book when deeply focusing on it... Meaning that you had to read it when concentrated; otherwise, you wouldn't fully understand what was sparkling from the words of the book. Anyways, I would recommend the book to any interested in either mystery, adventure, many a bit or horror, but also life in feudal Japan.
An interesting world and look into a time and situation that is nothing like today.Even so...it just...ends. All of a sudden it's just...over.Good book, interesting characters, etc.Enjoy!
Part of the children's home school curriculum, that I read. The ending let the rest of the book down. 80% was a wonderful re-enactment in ancient Japan, but the story failed to resolve satisfactorily in my mind.
Very interesting SABUROpuppeteering sounds hard I want to try itSaburo was so obvious
I started reading this as an assignment for school, and couldn't stop reading it! I really liked it. Captaining, and very exciting.
What a wild ride! My daughter never wanted me to put this down and would be glad when it was time to read again. Unsure of how it would end all the way until the last page.
I bought this for work on writing with my homeschooled daughter and I read it before introducing it. It was well-crafted, but I just did not connect with it at all.
This quote was mentioned at the beginning of the book “The Master Puppeteer” written by Katherine Paterson.
The quote was quite meaning full but I felt that Katherine didn’t really fulfill the idea throughout the book.
There are many other themes that are explored through the book for example is the hardships between families.
Katherine Paterson could have ended the story 2 chapters quicker without adding scenes for example; the starting of chapter 5 was not really needed.
I personally don’t like the character of Yoshida, I think the author made him a bit to harsh with descriptions of him beating his son.
The tale of Sabura, a Japanese Robin Hood, takes from the rich to help the exceptionally poor in the Japanese medieval time.
With incredible anticipation consolidated with authentic fiction, it is a flawless book for middle school level novel that serves as an impeccable prologue to Japanese society for kids.
This is a Japanese version of Robin Hood and anyone who likes that type of story would enjoy reading this book.
All the more vitally anyway, I think it gave a decent depiction of the Japanese theater and its operations.The main disadvantage to this is that for most perusers who are unfamiliar with the Japanese traditions and societies, it doesn't show that much capacity to gain a deep and accurate information on it.
In this second of Paterson's historical fiction novels, set in 18th century Japan, a young boy is driven by hunger and his family's desperate poverty to apprentice himself to a puppet theater.
The story drags in places before a rushed ending earns this book the two star rating I gave it.
It is merely OK for anyone curious to learn more about the history and culture of Japan and for being a suitable enough story for readers of all ages.
This is not Katherine Paterson's best book but luckily she has many other excellent works of children's literature out there for readers to discover and enjoy.
AR: 5.4Grades: 5-8This is Susan's Review:Despised by his mother, and he thinks, a burden to his puppet-maker father, young Jiro becomes an apprentice at the Hanaza puppet theater.
Kinshi and the blind old chanter, Okada, are kind to Jiro, but the boy worries about his ill father and his hungry mother, especially when he realizes that she is in one of the roving bands rioting in the streets.
The mystery is duly solved, Jiro’s mother is mellowed by her rescue, and Kinshi is assigned to Okada to become a chanter, escaping his father’s cruel teaching methods.This short book offers considerable information on Japanese history and culture as well as a very respectable mystery.
This novel is a fictions mystery about a puppeteer apprentice named Jiro who tries to discover the secret of a master thief named Saburo.
Jiro takes up a puppeteering apprentice with a strict and evil man named Yoshida, and discovers that there is a connection between Saburo, the thief, and Yoshida, his evil master.
Saburo is a Robin Hood like figure who has been stealing rice from the aristocrats who have been ruling unfairly and he gives the stolen rice to the poor who need it.
Also, mystery fans will like Jiro's quest to connect the pieces of this scattered puzzle.
This mysterious boy named Saburo stole from the rich to be able to help the pour.
Yoshida, the harsh and ill-tempted master of the most famous Japanese puppet theatre, and Saburo have a connection that Jiro is going to find out even at risk of his own life.
Meanwhile, Jiro tries to help his friend Kinshi to find his own parents, his life at the theatre is shattered by large groups of hungry and poor peasants and he becomes aware of the responsibilities and the challenges he needs to face.
It's a story about a boy named Jiro who comes from poor parents.Like everyone at that time, poverty was a major problem, with the rice merchants and various officials taking much of what the farmers produced, making them very rich, but leaving the farmers with little to eat.
There is a lot of information worked into the fictional parts about how the puppets were moved, what the plays were like, how they were performed, and what jobs various people had.The fictional part of the story deals with a Robin Hood-type of person who has a group of men that take from the rich, and give to the poor.
The curtains of the Hazana Theater hid Saburo the mysterious thief, who steals from the rich and helps the poor.
While being an apprentice to Yoshida, the master of Japan’s most famous puppet theater in Hazana, Jiro is determined to find out the true self of the thief behind the mask of Saburo.
Roles, morals, and the mysterious and starving society impacted Jiro as he learned puppetry in Hazana while risking his own life to discover the connection between Saburo and the theater.
The Master Puppeteer is a historical novel set in Osaka, Japan of 18th century when it is struck by starvation.
Jiro, the protagonist of this story, tries to help his father making the puppets for the theatre.
This book is interesting and informal at the same time.
The way the author, Katherine Paterson, described the situation is very attractive and unique.
(+ how is it attractive and unique?) It also grabs the readers’ attention with the conflicts throughout the book.
The story tells the readers about the political issues in Japan in the 18th century, and how the cultures were like in that time.
When I picked up this book, it automatically knew it was something no one would read, ever.
I put it down and started reading other books.
School was about a week away from ending and I never pick up a book and don't finish.
I finished it in a day because in knew I had to.
I thought about how I would give this book a review (which is what I'm doing now, heh) and I thought "I was bored throughout the whole book and now I feel it was an absolutely amazing book!" I definetly recommend this book for kids 10-maybe 14.
