https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20643052-ink-and-bone
"We're nothing but secrets." Books, alchemy, secret tunnels, books, friendships, rivalries, books and villains who become heroes? Oh, and did I mention books? Oh so many books...I might complain every time I read that ridiculous "X meets Y" marketing strategy, but I have to admit that Harry Potter meets The Book Thief meets Fahrenheit 451 is a pretty good descriptor for this book. The main character - Jess - is indeed a book thief, and they're are people called Burners who (you guessed it!) bur
Oh so many books...I might complain every time I read that ridiculous "X meets Y" marketing strategy, but I have to admit that Harry Potter meets The Book Thief meets Fahrenheit 451 is a pretty good descriptor for this book.
The main character - Jess - is indeed a book thief, and they're are people called Burners who (you guessed it!) burn books for political protest in this alternate world where the Great Library rules.
Everyone has secrets and the "bad guys" might not be what you first expect.After this wonderful, diverse cast of characters, my favourite thing has to be the books.
She wrote a few series we've read in my Vaginal Fantasy book club, so imagine my surprise when I read this, and it's not a girlie romance at all, it's a YA novel with a boy protagonist.
This series is a fantasy love letter to books.
When I was reading it, all I could think about was how much I loved going into a library as a kid and flipping through the books and finding new worlds.
Anyway, if you love books, this is a great read.
For me, things got truly interesting when he got admitted to this special school to study the library and its elements (something I had no idea would happen before starting it – can I just mention that I love delightful surprises and boarding schools?) A very delightful surprise indeed as we met plenty of new characters with unique personalities.
This hopefully doesn’t come as a surprise if you know in the slightest bit how I love my characters to be - but you’ll understand better when reading.
You have ink in your blood, boy, and no help for it. Books will never be just a business to you.   Few people, if any, have ever set eyes on a book in Jess Brightwell's London. And yet, no one is illiterate and writing is considered sacred across the world.Instead of books, everyone has blanks (think: ereader but run by alchemy and magic) where they can rent as many books as they want, respond to messages and conduct their lessons on. But no one has a book - as in an actual printed book - becau
Few people, if any, have ever set eyes on a book in Jess Brightwell's London.
Jess and 30 other students from across the world compete for six librarian spots.
And Jess is learning that the world isn't quite as stable as the Great Library wants them to think.Jess is fairly confident he can make it...but the longer he stays, the more he realizes that he has no idea of how (or even if) he can ever get out.What a brilliant start to a series!It's so rare to get a YA series with a male lead - this entire book was a breath of fresh air.
It's nearly a problem.Quick Bucket Of New(ish) Thoughts:• Jess is actually adorable and my favourite.• I still wish we knew more about Brendan!!• THE LEVEL OF BOOK LOVING IS AMAZING.
Like Jess is traumatised from seeing someone eat a book.• Same, son, same.• I still don't really understand the entire magic system??• The library sucks, man.• Wolfe x Santi are the ultimate ship in this book.• I still am peeved at how Jess gets so consumed with Morgan that he packs up his brain into a hollow bucket and posts it to Guadeloupe.
Like LOVED books.
ماذا لو لم تحترق مكتبة الإسكندرية القديمة؟في هذه الديستوبيا المختلفة إجابة كابوسية، تمزج روح رائعة راي برادبري فهرنهايت 451، مع سحر عالم هاري بوتر لرولينج ولكن بصورة جديدة وتنوعية مميزةرواية تحمل عبق الكتب القديمة بشحمها ولحمها، عذرا، بورقها وحبرها في مواجهة كتب المكتبة عديمة الروحBlanks VS.
Originalsتاريخ موازي،تيمة ماذا لو، ماذا لو بقيت مكتبة الإسكندرية وصارت تحكم العالم…ما التطورات التي سيشهدها حتي نصل لزمن الأحداث، في 2025..ذلك المستقبل القريب الموازي ،بين لندن والإسكندرية ومع شخصيات متنوعةشخصيات يتحكم بها حبر المكتبة حتي العظام..شخصيات مختلفة جنسياتهم ، دياناتهم ، حتي أعمارهم و ميولهم العاطفية..يواجهون ثورات حادة وحروب بلا معني في عالم يسيطر عليه طاغية من نوع أخرطاغية مختلف...
Dear bookworms of the world, You need this book in your life. If you don't buy, read, and love this as much as I did, well, I ain't gonna be your friend no more. With much love, Faye. Okay, I kid, I'll still be your friend nevertheless, but do you think I'm kidding about the awesomeness of this book? Let me tell you something: I don't always give books 5 stars. But when I do, there are two categories: 5 stars, and 5-fucking-fantastic-stars.When you have a story with a male hero, who fricking lo
But when I do, there are two categories: 5 stars, and 5-fucking-fantastic-stars.When you have a story with a male hero, who fricking loves books, in an alternate history fantasy setting who travels with a group of amazing friends and a sarcastic, strict, likeable mentor, and who eventually goes against a 
It's about a group of friends (or, okay, enemies-turned-forced-acquaintances-turned-friends)  who love books and seek to protect them in various ways, going so far as to put their lives on the line in order to make sure they're safe from harm.2.) The library is the freaking villain.
DNF @ page 37Dry. Dry.
DRY.I gave this book 37 pages but I didn't feel anything for it.
Despite having an interesting premise that would appeal to most bibliophiles, I felt like there was nothing there to hook me immediately.
It felt like a smattering of other successful stories right now in the market had bits picked from them and this was what was trying to be cobbled out of it.
Let's not even mention the "we have to keep books (read: education) from commoners" thing.There's just no warmth or heart here to keep me interested.
THERE IS A HIJABI IN THISA HIJABIIN YA FANTASYI'M CRYING??? SO MUCH??????GIIIMMMMMEEEEE
GIVEAWAY: find out the title of the sequel to Ink and Bone - and win in a copy of Ink and Bone! ***Review posted on The Eater of Books! blog***Ink and Bone by Rachel CaineBook One of The Great Library seriesPublisher: NALPublication Date: July 7, 2015Rating: 4 starsSource: Review copy sent by the publisherSummary (from Goodreads):In an exhilarating new series, New York Times bestselling author Rachel Caine rewrites history, creating a dangerous world where the Great Library of Alexandria has su
Jess has been sent to be his family’s spy, but his loyalties are tested in the final months of his training to enter the Library’s service.When he inadvertently commits heresy by creating a device that could change the world, Jess discovers that those who control the Great Library believe that knowledge is more valuable than any human life—and soon both heretics and books will burn.…What I Liked:My first Rachel Caine read!
Jess is sent by his father to the library to train with other students to get a position in the Great Librarian - but also to be a spy for his family, and get books his family to smuggle.
Reread 04/18  : Skimming through this again because I just got the arc of Paper and Fire. WOOT!Actual rating : 3.5 Happily rounded up at 4 because DUH. BOOKS.In my honest opinion the strength of Ink and Bone lies first in the plot, which is entertaining as hell, and in the world-building, which contains several of my main interests : think books, automatons, alchemy, a dystopian world ruled by Librarians who control every knowledge (or aim to) and an academy blended together. Exciting? FUCK YEA
FUCK YEAH.► Random facts you might want to know about Ink and Bone (because there's no way I'm spoiling the story for you)✔ After reading I went to my bookshelves and HUGGED my paperbacks.
I don't want to give away too much, but let's say that the Great Library developed a number of mechanisms, first of all the ability to transfer and erase words on every book sold, because they're all blanks, sort of ereaders controlled by the Library while originals are carefully kept in Alexandria.
However something about him rubbed me the wrong way, and that's the fact that he cares about books more than people.
Despite this being a very short book (only 350-ish pages), it feels much longer, but it’s completely worth it!First of all, I’d like to address everyone who compared this novel to Harry Potter…Every book that requires training at a school does not need to be compared to Harry Potter.
The world is run in a dictatorship-type manner by the Great Library, who control the world’s knowledge because as everyone knows: knowledge is power.
The Library would rather the world go up in flames around them than let any harm come to the books.
In this alternate history type of fantasy, the Library of Alexandria was never destroyed, which ended up affecting the world profoundly.
But - surprisingly - not necessarily in ways that are good.
The world has developed in a very different direction, scientifically and politically, and the Library keeps a stranglehold over the ownership of books, forbidding private ownership of hard copies on pain of death (ereaders are fine, but the Library monitors the content) and ruthlessly destroying the printing press each time it is invented.
It's basically Amazon, in control and run amok.
This is an intriguing and somewhat dark fantasy.
The Great Library is in every city and controls the books of the world.
Using alchemy to distribute the books those working for the library track down anyone with any in their possession and confiscate the materials.
Jess Brightwell's family has been involved in the black market for books.
He gets involved in the training only to find himself mixed up in the secrets of the library.
Such an interesting world Rachel Caine had created for anyone who loves to read.
A read that keeps you guessing in who you should be rooting for and who is actually the good guys versus the bad guys from start to finish.
I could get a vivid picture of the Great Library and I got jealous of the characters, who were in the amazing world the author created.When reading this book, I could not stop thinking about Harry Potter, but don't get me wrong - the concept of this was highly original.
It reminded me of HP because if you change Hogwarts for The Great Library and the magic for alchemy and books, you get something similar to Ink and Bone.
Truth be told: I liked the idea of this book more than I actually liked the book.This was one of my most anticipated releases of 2015 and, well, it fell a bit flat. Welcome to a world set in 2025 in which the Great Library of Alexandria had never been burnt and destroyed, and where books are a treasure hoarded and guarded by a powerful minority. Where the private possession of books is illegal and punishable (yes, I think we can agree that we’d all be screwed). There are three parts to learning:
Welcome to a world set in 2025 in which the Great Library of Alexandria had never been burnt and destroyed, and where books are a treasure hoarded and guarded by a powerful minority.
They’re librarians.”
The setting had already been special without the magic aspect, which was, by the way, barely explained.
Did I miss something?✗ It took Rachel Caine 240 pages to impress me.It’s not that I dislike Ink and Bone (Can I just point out that there are way too many YA books with Bone in their title?
Imagine no ink plates, no moveable type, no presses – all innovations that were deemed too dangerous by an all-powerful ruling class that seeks to gather and control all knowledge, deciding who should have access to it, how and when.Jess Brightwell lives in such a world, where the only books that exist are original works or copies painstakingly written out by hand.
This should clue you into the kind of place our protagonist has landed in, and even with his book smuggling background, Jess is unprepared to learn about the corruption at the heart of Alexandria, or just how deep it lies.Despite its secrets (or perhaps because of them), the dark underside of the Great Library was a wonder to explore.
www.melissa413readsalot.blogspot.comI can not even fathom living in a world where you can not have your own books I mean you could go to jail or most likely be killed for having books!!!
unfortunately, they use kids as runners and if they are caught they will be put to death as well.
Anyway, a few years later Jess's dad pays a lot of money to get him into The Great Library to try to become a Scholar.
I had my favorite characters, Jess, Thomas, Morgan and Khalila, but there are a lot of other kids there too and some are jerks and some are likable as well.
But after that cliche "train introduction", the story improves.While reading this story, I was reminded of the divide between those who love holding traditional books in their hands and ebook readers.
The Library has discovered a magical method to use tablets and change the words on the page, very similar to ebooks: "Do you agree it should be wrong to own original works?" Of course, Jess knew he ought to say; it was the standard answer.
And that doesn't stop Jess' family from enrolling him in the Library's elite and pricey program that would allow him to enter into employment with the Library and become their spy from the inside.Part Harry Potter, part Hunger Games, Ink and Bone introduces us to the Great Library series and the enrollment class for entry into the Library, but in an alternate world ruled for centuries by the Library.
And they will do anything to stop threats to their power.I don't read a lot of YA, but I found Ink and Bone to be hugely entertaining.
But, that is exactly the world that author Rachel Caine has created for us in the first book in The Great Library series, Ink and Bone.
An alternate history where The Great Library of Alexandria was never destroyed but still exists, the invention of the printing press was never allowed to come to fruition, and the librarians and those in higher positions are in absolute control of all dissemination of knowledge through use of a Codex, an electronic means of communication - these are all realities for Jess Brightwell and the myriad cast of characters we come across in this book.
The all seeing and all powerful Library seems like an unbreakable patriarchal structure, but that might just be what they want you to think.I adored this unique world and found its politics surrounding the spreading of information and knowledge to provide intriguing points for discussion and thought, within the book.
It did take a little while for me to acquaint myself with the particulars of the political structure, but once I had done so I was mesmerised with the layers to this fascinating governing regime.This is not my first time reading Caine's writing and I have been previously unimpressed.
4 starsI think this is the first time I can say I agree with the pitch. This book is SO HP meets The book thief. I loved it, but I hope she invests more time in the world-building in the sequel. I need more information about how everything works, because it's such a fascinating concept! MOOOORE.Review to come.---I always try to ignore the 'PITCHED AS THE NEW X" but damn:“The Book Thief with Fahrenheit 451 by way of Harry Potter.”The book thief AND Harry Potter in one sentence.. I think I'm in love.
*4.5* stars Give in. Give up.Survive. Beautiful. Mesmerizing. Addictive. So many words come to mind when I think of this story. I have many regrets as of late, and not being able to read my dystopian/sci-fi/fantasy is one of them. But perhaps the larger crime is that when I do attempt to stick one of these stories in my reading schedule I'm either:A) too tiredB) too tired C) too tired Oh, and did I mention my time has been severely limited? I've always been that girl that scoffs when people say
But as I (surprisingly) gained a large amount of time yesterday, I picked this story up and it was like I'd never left."No, it's alright," he said, and tried to sit up, but the brief nap had stiffened his sore muscles, and it was a clumsy process.
Jess's story intrigued and delighted me, making me feel like I was in this magical world that has long since been lost to me.
I remember when my lovely friend Anna was talking about him-She got the vibe that he cared more about this futuristic world where books were coveted holier and more valuable than human lives.
The students-coming-to-school-from-elsewhere thing + the books.
Instead of moving ahead with Gutenberg's printing press in the 1500s and making the written word available to everyone the world over, the Library has stomped out all similar inventions and relies on its Codex system when people want to read books.
The whole Codex thing feels like...
well, like a library.
So glad for free speech and the fact that books are so accessible, because we could be living in a world like this one instead.
Dammit.update: This feels like such a crap review because I can't do this book justice.
I very much enjoyed this story especially the second half when the story has had time to evolve. The Great library preserving the world's original texts. Sounds like a good idea, right? Well-no actually. Very wrong! What starts off as a deceptively simple tale, takes a more sinister turn as it is slowly revealed to us the sinister tone of the Great Library's guardianship and its Big Brother nature. Interesting alternative history/ fantasy. Well worth a read.
The Library controls the flow of knowledge as the ownership of books is forbidden.Ink and Bone is an interesting concept, but the story isn't exactly fluid.
There's a lot of world building from the overall setting, the Great Library and its hierarchy, and to the use of Alchemy.The main protagonist is sixteen year old Jess Brightwell.
Since the Library still exists and controls the flow of knowledge by using Alchemy to allow individuals to read a selected range of titles, they are threatened by these ideas because it would render the Library obsolete.
People are allowed to read anything (Amazon) The Library owns, by way of a copy which is (downloaded) mirrored via alchemy into a (kindle) blank book.
However, since it has a lock on the original books, and you can only read anything using a (kindle) blank book which (Amazon) The Library can erase at any time, even if you have a (kindle) blank copy of a book in your possession it doesn’t really belong to you.
Just WOW.
Just WOW.
Honestly speaking, I don't know whether the effect would have been the same had I just read it instead of listening to the audiobook, but the narrator, Ben Allen was simply superb in making all the different characters come to life and the story to rock and roll.
As for the story in general, I think it was very well-written.
It was tight-paced, tense, grim, inventive and exciting from beginning to end with some powerful, intriguing characters (Christopher Wolfe, Nicolo Santi, the horrible Artifex Magnus).
The world-building was jaw-dropping, the characters likeable, the romance convincing, but understated.
Well that was a really cool book. I love the concept. :)Now, let's see if my suspicions are correct and Rachel Caine has tried to pull one over on me.*picks up book two*
