https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/296662.Lies_My_Teacher_Told_Me
By critiquing 12 highly used American History textbooks, the author successfully presents several topics which they currently address, and uncovers the alleged omissions and distortions.I completely agree with the author’s basic belief that American students are getting short-changed when we present only the PC-version of our country’s heritage, not to mention the fact that this watered down presentation only serves to bore them all to tears (students consider history to be “the most irrelevant” and “boring” of all the 21 subjects commonly taught in school).
Columbus practically invented genocide.The new world was not populated by sparsely-scattered tribes, but by as many as 100 million Indians, which were systematically wiped out by one plague after another, most introduced purposely.
Tributes in gold or cotton were due every 3 months, and Indians who did not comply had their hands chopped off.The book goes on to discuss the invisibility of both racism and anti-racism in history books, and example after example of how history books white-wash our history, always making America look like the good guys, and never mentioning our mistakes.The author would like to see history taught showing both sides of each event, and involve students in discussions of the pros and cons, which might make it more interesting to study.Why is history taught this way?
But that, of course, is not quite as bombastic a title and you probably wouldn't read the book, would you?After a brief false start involving how Hellen Keller was a raging Communist, Loewen starts his review of American history in precolonial days, beginning with the atrocities of the Conquistadors and other European explorers.
It holds up for most of the book.Throughout it all, Loewen does a pretty good job of showing how textbooks often omit information and whitewash (pun intended) the characters of prominent Europeans and Americans, such as Christopher Columbus and Abraham Lincoln.
Before reading this I had never actually thought about my own experiences in school with history but I feel like a lot of what he discusses was really valid and I agreed with much of what he said.
I really enjoyed this one and it made me think about a lot of things I hadn't before, my enjoyment of this may stem from the fact that I'm still relatively young and haven't read as many books like this one though.
I would totally recommend it though to people interested in history or those dissatisfied with the static sanitized history they learned in school.
As he points out early in this book, the first year of most college history courses in the US are about seeking to remove all of the misinformation students have been taught in high school.
Take as an example Wilson’s high praise of the film The Birth of a Nation – a jaunty little film whose themes will become clear once you are told it was originally called The Clansmen and was about the great lie in American history, that Reconstruction following the Civil War was a time when African Americans dominated life in the south.
He was the type of teacher that made learning interesting and it was a class I actually enjoyed going to.
This is one of those books.I was never really interested in learning history when I was in grade school, not even American History.
Many of the historical events in American History that I did learn about in school–according to the author of this book–were inaccurate.
Could this be why so many don’t enjoy learning American History?
Although controversial, I think it’s a book worth reading, especially if you have an interest in history.My rating on this is: 5*****

Americans need to learn from the Wilson era, that there is a connection between racist presidential leadership and like-minded public response.This book is so important to read.I do not know if there is any other field of knowledge which suffers so badly as history from the sheer blind repetitions that occur year after year, and from book to book.History is a subject that I haven't taken since high school.
We didn't learn that American Indian camps were Hitler's inspiration.And not knowing is a dangerous thing.
The textbooks that we use in American history classes are simplistic, dry and patronizing, aimed not at teaching the students about the rich epic that is American history, but rather at reinforcing what they already believe to be true: America is a great place, and it's just getting greater.Loewen has a lot of bones to pick with the history texts, but he limits himself here to ten.
The cynic in me, of course, immediately thinks, "Well, no one wants that!"He does try to offer solutions, things that a good textbook should do - focus on fewer topics, offer a broader view, and force students to work outside the text, for example - but he also acknowledges that it's not nearly as easy as it sounds.
I love works that give you the uncensored truth about history, but this particular book left me feeling as though the author had something to prove, rather than reveal.
While not as good or revolutionary of A People's History of the United States by Howard Zinn, Loewen writes an entertaining and eyebrow-raising book about the hidden catastrophes in American history that your teachers did not tell you about.
I would personally read Zinn first but this is an excellent followup (and much shorter if the length of Zinn initially intimidates you).
It is highly readable and once again in the current context of fake news and flag-waving ignorance, a critical book to see that America - despite its ideals - has not always lived up to its self-proclaimed goal of being the Home of Democracy and Freedom.
To be read.
When I started this book, I thought it would be along the lines of "your teacher told you this...but this is what happened..." You know like "hey columbus didn't discover the new world...blah blah blah" and there was some of that.But more importantly, and far more interestingly, this book is an indictment of how American history is taught.
As the book went forward, even I found myself thinking "yep, that's what I was taught" and wondering if I would have found American history less boring had it been as filled with flawed characters as European.
There are simply too many.This book is not a fun read full of "neat facts" about history--it's more than that, much more.
I read this a while ago and forgot about it until I saw a GR friend reading it. I liked its content and I agree that history is taught a certain way to bore us into stupidity. Who remembers liking history and who can remember what they learned? I don't/can't. Now that I am older I can appreciate it and want to discover what really happened. As "they say" history repeats itself.
The thesis of the book is interesting and well supported, however, I found it pretty dry which was disappointing considering a main point Loewen makes is that Middle School/High School History books are too boring.
He goes into too much depth in the first two chapters making the same point over and over again, while quickly and concisely exploring more current history, which again is the same criticism he makes of the textbooks he attacks.
I would love to see Loewen included a comparison of how the same "history" is taught in different countries providing support with passages from different textbooks in France and Germany during WWII for instance.
That our history is far richer and more interesting than any one book (including this one) can possibly tell, so relying on a single book to teach a class like this is setting everyone, teacher and student alike, up for failure.4.
Then go out, and read more books, preferably primary and secondary sources, which tell the actual story, and include the controversies that still remain, both in ascribing motives to the people who made history, but also the controversies in interpreting what the facts actually mean, both for the present and the future.
re-read the updated version. Still excellent.As a history major in college, I still have an affinity for the subject. This book was very interesting, because it challenged many of the things we were all taught in the American educational system.It's a real eye opener, and while you may have a superficial knowledge of some of the events and trends that we were never taught,or taught in such a way that the real issues were glossed over, this book delves into them in depth. I would highly recommend this book, even if you are not into history.
After Natives were no longer needed as allies, their worth was yet further diminished, and subsequent Indian wars became mopping-up operations.Loewen claims that no matter what Indians did they could not come out ahead, not as long as they had no protection under the law.He gives some credence to changes in those negative attitudes as a result of the civil rights movement, but I think the economic standing, relatively low numbers, and being to some extent out-of-sight and out-of-mind on reservations have limited that improvement--although as I pointed out in my other review, he does say that gambling and gaming enterprises have put some Indians back on the economic map.Thought-provoking issuesI noticed that James Loewen sometimes says "our" and "ours," and wondered who is this "ours" and if he's inadvertently extending us-and-them thinking.
Without question, this is the greatest non-fiction book I have ever read.
In it, Loewen, a college professor, is constantly frustrated by how little his young, incoming freshmen know about history.
So, in the late 90s he wrote a scathing investigation of the most common history textbooks used in secondary classes.
He details how poorly these textbooks link events, leaving students with little idea how one occurrence causes another.
Loewen could not be more brutal in his assessment of secondary school's historical lessons.
And he, and this book, will forever be one of my models as I continue teaching.
Lies My Teacher Told Me is a well-written and insightful expose of some of the problems inherent in the teaching of US History in public schools.
From outdated textbooks to gross distortions of basic events and major figures, Loewen exposes readers to a side of US History that most do not get in high school.
His survey of 12 textbooks didn't seem like enough to make a truly damning critique of education in the country.
While the textbooks may get things wrong, he acts as though education is nothing more than reading textbooks and parroting back the information found in them.
It is all well and fine for people to criticize historians for being snobs about who writes the history books... but this book is a great example of what goes wrong when non-historians try to write history. Everything in this book is taken out of context - and is therefore at best skewed and at worst just wrong. Context is everything. Nothing happens in a vacuum; historical events out of context are just stories - and usually not very good ones at that.
History magically "ended" at WWII; we always assumed that it just coinsided with the end of the school year (oops - "no time" to discuss anything after!
This book really explores how the top 10 American History Textbooks taught in 95% of American High Schools present readers with the "feel-good" versions of American History, and how the not-so-pretty parts of American History (such as slavery, treatment of Native Americans, the gilded age, immigration, etc) that greatly affected (and still affect) the American population are glossed over or presented as "not so bad" as they truly were.Very interesting, intense read.
I learned a lot from this book.
But I gotta tell you, its depressing as hell.
Mankind is basically crap and have always treated each other badly and then lied about it.
The atrocities in this book are horrible.
If you’re looking for a book that will make you feel good about the kindness of our fellow human beings and the strength of our historical heroes, this ain’t it.
But if you want to know the evil sides of the many names in our history books, this book is for you.
I now know more about Christopher Columbus than I ever wanted to know.
By denying students the ability to see history in this way, textbooks also deny them the ability to learn how to consider competing ideas, analyze the strengths and weaknesses of each, and in the process, discover how to think for themselves.At a time when so much of America seems to have lost touch with even the most basic facts of the present let alone the distant past, Loewen's book is incredibly important for anyone not just interested in our nation's past but also in its future.
He viciously, and quite rightly, attacks coverage of Woodrow Wilson, a white supremacist who interfered in the affairs of other nations, often creating long term problems both locally and for America itself, by continually launching invasions of other states; most recent American interventions in Iran and Lebanon, which have created sectarian and political issues in those countries; and even the Vietnam War, portrayed as a moral intervention when it most certainly was not.What Loewen is at pains to point out, and what he covers so well, is that the books that are used to teach Americans about how they came to be where they are today paint government after government as lily-white, and their 'mistakes' as misunderstandings.
James Loewen takes a look at some of our shared national history, primarily through the lens of the textbook.
He has combed thoroughly through 18 of the top-selling American history textbooks (and 6 additional ones as of the 2007 update I read).
It's not that teachers are intentionally telling lies, but that a number of influences, financial and political, combine to remove anything from textbooks that could be considered controversial or unpatriotic.
Loewen clearly does have an agenda and a perspective to share, but it's one worth considering, even if you find it overly political.
great cocktail fodder.
i think the author has a great overall point.
especially since my mom is navajo and was raised as a baby in tuba city, az.
but c'mon.
some of the examples in the book are pure sensationalistic crap.
that's ok, it's no worse than the religious right's crap and in this case much more interesting and less mystical.
i find it just as hard to bite at each 'fact' given in this book when the author has in fact written it 'in penance' for missing the civil rights movement.
sets the tone right off for some extreme bias.
Loewen reviewed 12 common American history textbooks and analyzed the content based on historical accuracy and bias.
To prove his point, the book ended up presenting a very sensationalized version of American history, because he was including only the worst examples of our past, to show what was excluded.
Ultimately, I finished the book realizing that I have a lot of gaps to fill in my knowledge of American history, especially in the recent past.
Although I already realized that there it is impossible to write an unbiased history, it's made me more aware of how to study history more objectively and review my sources more critically.
Really enjoying this look at history, things I knew and didn't know, and also about how history is written, rewritten, or unwritten and why. To be fair, it's not the teachers that are lying necessarily, or intentionally, but certainly many textbooks.
It is also (verbosely) summarizes some very valid criticisms of the general treatment textbooks and by extension, some high school teachers on a handful of touchy subjects in American history.However, it is not what it purports to be, it is not new or unusual, and had it been titled appropriately, this book would have been relegated to the back of the store in the "teacher handbooks.""Lies My Teacher Told Me," comes across as revealing the "controversial issues" that these damn liars across America are foisting on our children.
The one aspect of the book that I found unnecessary was the author's recount of exactly which high school history textbooks get which facts right, or which they leave out.
There are reasons that many secondary school students find history deadly.
The reasons for this go beyond a plot by the "haves" and publishing companies to keep students from learning more controversial parts of American history.
African American parents may be concerned about their young children learning some of the more tragic aspects of Black history.
This is the type of history, the author argues could elevate students of traditionally marginalized groups - Latino, Black, American Indian and immigrant students.
