https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77505.Green_Mars
Green Mars takes place some time after Red Mars and describes the breakdown in relationships between the Earth and the Martian colonizers.
Mars is slowly becoming green as Sax's terraforming is starting to bear fruit, but the Earth wishes to exercise increased control over their colony and this creates an explosive situation.
The plot is exciting and, as in Red Mars, told through various characters in each chapter in roughly chronological order.
I think the characters are better developed here (and there are less throwaway moments as those I did not like in Red Mars)...Blue Mars review up on GR as well!
After the failed, bloody, chaotic revolution of 2061 on Mars, led by the first hundred settlers, ( less than half now) they laid low for decades, deep inside the frozen, hidden, ice sanctuaries near the greatly underpopulated south polar region, of the Red Planet regrouping, living humbly and quietly , awaiting for the opportunity to strike a second blow, for independence.
temperatures rise, the sky turns from pink to pale purple, the ice starts to melt thanks to transforming, by the Big Terran Corporations.
Christmas 2010: I realised that I had got stuck in a rut. I was re-reading old favourites again and again, waiting for a few trusted authors to release new works. Something had to be done.On the spur of the moment I set myself a challenge, to read every book to have won the Locus Sci-Fi award. That’s 35 books, 6 of which I’d previously read, leaving 29 titles by 14 authors who were new to me.While working through this reading list I got married, went on my honeymoon, switched career and became
Something had to be done.On the spur of the moment I set myself a challenge, to read every book to have won the Locus Sci-Fi award.
That’s 35 books, 6 of which I’d previously read, leaving 29 titles by 14 authors who were new to me.While working through this reading list I got married, went on my honeymoon, switched career and became a father.
the full five stars because it was my favourite of the three books, but there were just a few too many issues for me to do so.After this I read: Blue Mars
To me his philosophical questioning in Green Mars goes as deep as Valles Marineris.
This trilogy is about answering the question "how do we live together when we have no home." A similar sci-fi treatment, Battlestar Galactica, attempted to answer this--but KSR plays with the question without any heavy-handed mysticism, magic, or deus-ex-machinas.
With questions like these, Green Mars is about process of preventing dystopia, instead of making dystopia our starting point.
Earth in the 2100's plays a much larger role than in Red Mars, resulting in richer world building.
In Green Mars, a scientific conference takes up most of one chapter.
Such as Ann with her militant position against terraforming (not even admitting that it's too late as the process has already begun and can't be reversed) or Maya with her manipulation of all kinds of men through sex followed by her judgement of another who does exactly the same.There are a few "good" characters, such as Art (who is sent to Mars from Earth to negotiate some form of truce in the name of one of the bigger companies) or Nirgal (second generation of the Mars-born children), who is very scientific and level-headed considering his upbringing.Sax, too, had his moments but especially before (view spoiler)[his torture induced stroke (hide spoiler)] he slipped into old habits with Phyllis.Anyway, the point is that I wouldn't exactly say that reading these books is "fun".
I enjoy the wonderful detail of science and speculation and nothing pleases me more than when an character goes on a rant about a concept.
They discuss fellfields on Mars that consist of aided growth and not something naturally taking root.
Chapters are devoted to discussing CO2 levels, controls and ecological balancing through science.3.
Detailed again, not long enough, explores and discusses the viability and logistics of capturing an asteroid, anchoring it to a planet and using it as a glorified elevator.
A surprisingly disappointing sequel to Red Mars; still worth reading for the nuggets of speculative science.
I don't really mind all the drug use or sex addiction or all the little social explorations when it comes to these brothers from another mother (world), but there *is* an awful lot of seemingly pointless, (if otherwise presented in a non-SF novel, rather decent) characterization and character studies that seem to go nowhere.
At first, I thought it was going to be mostly about a pristine Mars versus a terraformed one, but it wasn't to be.
It's about Mars versus Earth.It always was going to be this.
This is one of the most well-thought-out and scientifically researched Mars colonization novels ever.
https://i.chzbgr.com/maxW500/64913733...If you liked 'Red Mars' a lot, and read it with sheer pleasure - then you should definitely go ahead and read 'Green Mars' and 'Blue Mars.'If however, like me, you found 'Red Mars' to have some very interesting idea and details, and appreciated Kim Stanley Robinson's research into a broad range of fields for his epic dissertation on the possible ramifications of terraforming a planet, but ultimately found the experience of reading the novel akin to studying a somewhat-boring textbook, then you should probably skip these two sequels.Unless, of course, like me, you have committed yourself to reading all the Hugo and Nebula award winners, in which case you will just have to go ahead and read them.Basically, 'Blue' and 'Green Mars' are a lot more of the same, but with even more soap-opera-ish drama thrown in.
“Technically he weighed about forty kilos, but as he walked along it felt more like five. Very strange, even unpleasant. Like walking on buttered glass.” This is my favorite feature of hard science fiction, the little minutiae that make the imaginary scenes not merely believable but also visceral; more vivid to me than riding on a dragon’s back and such. I like Kim Stanley Robinson’s conception of a Mars in the process of terraformation where global warming is actually a good thing!Green Mars i
Their opposition comes from “The Greens” who want to fully terraform Mars so people can walk freely on the surface as we do on Earth.Aside from the epic story arc the novel is very much a character study, to the detriment of my enjoyment of the book.
Some characters are more interesting than others, and even the interesting ones spend too much time ruminating on issues, personal, scientific or philosophical; dragging the narrative down in the process.Kim Stanley Robinson is an uncommonly good prose stylist for a hard SF writer.

For me, this trilogy is one of those life-changing books - something you talk about, and think about years later.
So this is a book for those who want to ponder, brood, wonder, think, debate and discuss.What's to love?ACTION - biblical-size natural disasters on Mars and Earth, and a revolution.DESCRIPTION - lot's and lots and lots, but the scale is so HUGE it's cool.
But think about it, what kind of people would want to do that - no family, no friends - move to Mars, face possible death, not come back.
Green Mars is almost entirely from outside the official corporate structures of power, and spends most of its time with Hiroko's colony and the rebels, as they try to reconcile vastly different goals and methods and not have a complete catastrophe on their hands when it finally comes to open revolution.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
Someone said if God wrote, he'd write like Tolstoy.
Parts of this book are transcendent, and I was going to save Blue Mars for next year but now I think I'll read it next!That said, there's parts where the (tooooo maannnyyy) characters must traverse the Martian surface for various reasons, and there are long descriptions of their journeys.
Now, Robinson couldn't dedicate himself to writing these novels unless he thought there was something interesting about the various features of the Martian surface, the names for the different parts etc—but I skimmed.But I still think these are miracle books.
Este libro es como un dulce metido en una caja fuerte en la jaula de un oso hambriento.
¿Quién no quiere leer una historia sobre los primeros colonos de Marte y su terraformación?La caja fuerte son los personajes.
Están ahí como simples herramientas para contar una historia.
Son un impedimento para comerme el dulce pero podría intentarlo.Pero el oso hambriento son las toneladas y toneladas de información sociológica, geográfica, histórica, psicológica, política y se me acaban las materias de la ciencia.
Y así durante 600 páginas.Tal vez pudiera enfrentarme a la caja fuerte pero ni de coña me enfrento a un oso hambriento por ese dulce.
50 years after the events described in Red Mars (mainly the revolt of 2061), at the early 22nd-century, Mars is controlled by giant Earth based commercial companies called metanationals.
Mars is in a stage of terraforming that has allowed plants to grow but there is an unrest among the population, unrest against the ruling part that earth has on mars.
Most of the leaders of the rebellious population are members of the original 100 that populated mars but there are some younger ones too.So basically, this is more of the same (which is good), mainly the story of the colonization of mars and its second rebellion against earth.
O mejor dicho, ¿Cómo?Bueno allá vamos… Me da un poco de respeto escribir una review de este libro (de hecho estaba apunto de no hacerla), porqué no creo que sea muy crítica.
La novela es la lucha de siempre, de los de arriba contra los de abajo, el capitalismo contra la eco-economía, las grandes empresas contra los trabajadores, Marte contra la Tierra.No es una historia cuyos personajes sean los protagonistas, estos son secundarios, únicamente usados para plantearnos las distintas perspectivas respecto a la terraformación, o incluso si esta es correcta.
¿Por qué el ser humano después de “destruir” la Tierra debería terraformar otro planeta?Resumiendo, a pesar de sus pegas, es un libro que todo amante de la ciencia ficción debería leer (otro libro más sobre Marte).
Even more technical than the previous part, this second one focuses more on ecology, economics and politics.
Lead by those remained from the First Hundred, ~ 50 yrs after the events in Red Mars, the Martians (4 generations by now) try to gain independence while Earth is in chaos.
Second revolution is in progress and old fears surface once again.The amount of research for this book is simply overwhelming.
by Mircea Eliade.
At least Eliade was a religion historian among other specialties but KSR has no background in science, which I find to be even more mind-blowing.All I can say is that this is high class literature.
Book 2 of the trilogy.
I think my main problem with this book was that it was almost all concerned with the socio-political aspects of colonizing a new world and less with the scientific and engineering aspects of terraforming.
The first book, Red Mars' also had a lot of this but at least the story moved along in that one.
There were also a couple of plot threads that went nowhere so I am expecting those to pan out in book 3, Blue Mars.Although this was not a an easy read, I did feel a sense of accomplishment on finishing it.
I will be reading the final book of the trilogy later this year.
Philosophy is entwined with science fiction, as agenda collides with agenda and the very notions of democracy and freedom are debated.Picking up some years after the failed revolt of ‘Red Mars’, Stanley Robinson brings us back to some (now very old) characters from the first book, as well as some newer characters and walks them stuttering to an uncertain future.
How we can ever reconcile these vast differences is a big theme of the book, but one which is too huge to really answer.
It’s like having a bunch of Gandalfs running around.And in Green Mars, this really is the case.
Many of them still trek around Mars like they are on a Tolkien-like quest; alternately terraforming and ecotaging their beloved home, while essentially booby-trapping the planet against potential conquest.Also, like Gandalf, their reputations over the past one hundred years have evolved into legend and, in some cases, messiah-dom.
No, but as much as it drags, the literal world-building in Red Mars, and its introduction to the characters is a valuable supplement to the Green Mars portion of the story.
I enjoyed this book quite a bit, although the beginning was a little slow going for me.
Those parts get bogged down with too much detail.If you read the description on the back cover of the book and think that you are going to see lots of POVs from the next generation of Martians, you will be disappointed.
I had looked forward to reading about some new characters so was a little disappointed by this.
I did enjoy KSR giving us some more of Frank Chalmers backstory.I think that this book would stand on its own fairly well if you had not read Red Mars.
Every bit as good as Red Mars was - this is a huge epic story, vivid and arresting; this trilogy, so far, is up there with the best of Frank Herbert. I'm looking forward to the third book, but at the same time not wanting it to be over that soon. This series cries out to be made into a trilogy of films, too.
It is one of my lost reviews.It's been a tendency of the good Science Fiction I've read to improve with the sequel -- Green Mars fits in with this just fine.
I barely noticed Saxifrage in Red Mars [at least the first time around], but I fell in love with him in Green Mars.
Whatever the reason, I loved this book and its politics -- the whole spectrum of its politics -- and it has given me much to think about in a time when I've already been thinking about much.
http://nwhyte.livejournal.com/1541312.htmlI think the Mars books are among the best examples of sfnal world-building, combined with politics, that I know; without needing a detailed knowledge of Martian geography in advance (the maps supplied are adequate for me) I got a tremendous sense of the scale and size of the planet, of the vast enterprise of making it livable, not a new Earth, but a new Mars.
The examples I’ve read this year are Cixin Liu’s Remembrance of Earth's Past trilogy, Ada Palmer’s 'Terra Ignota' series (Too Like the Lightning et al), potentially James S.A. Corey’s 'Expanse' series (Leviathan Wakes et al), and now Kim Stanley Robinson’s Mars Trilogy.
Indeed, ‘Green Mars’ has a much slower-paced plot than its predecessor, as the dramatic happenings of previous years have left the remaining members of the First Hundred on Mars fragmented and wary of further conflict.
The first two books of the Mars Trilogy have aged well - they’re more than twenty years old.
The book starts with a perspective from the the younger generation of colonists - Nirgal, one of Hiroko’s children - and continues with a character newly arrived from Earth, Art Randolph, who is sent by the corporation Praxis to learn about the Martian underground.
This book is a little more contemplative and meandering than Green Mars, but it’s a wonderful blend of hard sf, vivid scene setting, philosophical ideas, and character drama.
some of my favorite quotes"Sax had always been so uninterested in [power and gain] that it was hard for him to understand why anyone else would be.
he would have to, if hr wanted to understand Mars; for the transnationals’ Martian behavior was being driven by Terran ultimate causes.
Robinson produced something great here: a blend of hard SF, literary writing, intricate world building, and deep philosophical ruminations on ecology, science, politics, and humanity's potential.
But if you're like me and you read science fiction for the ideas and don't cling dogmatically to the show-don't-tell rule, you may also love this series.I read Red Mars about 12 years ago.
Or maybe it just took me until the second book to realize Robinson's genius in this series, which is this: Robinson recognizes that human colonization of Mars will not be a simple matter of us changing Mars to be another Earth, but of Mars changing us.
Things like the manned mission to Mars, with a selection process eerily similar to the one in this series, and multinational corporations grip on our political system, makes this a culturally relevant read.The Mars series, with all it's science that's so plausible, could easily be a prediction of whats to come and a basis for future colonization of Mars.
In Green Mars you've already got the basic idea, so quickly can immerse yourself in plot rather than sift through the intricacies of the world.The book inspires a genuine passion for learning.
I feel that Robinson tried to put too much information and too much very rapid change in the already compressed time-scale of the series.
Robinson's vision of the colonization of Mars in frighteningly plausible in some respects and very well thought through.
Although the situation is bad at times, there are always people working on ways to improve it, usually with very innovative ideas.
It'll have to wait for a bit, but I already look forward to my reread of the novel that got me hooked on Robinson's work in the first place, the final volume in this trilogy: Blue Mars.Full Random Comments review
For those who have read the novel: (SPOILER ALERT, PLEASE DON'T READ FURTHER IF YOU HAVEN'T READ THE BOOK YET) I find the depiction of Maya and her (probable) daughter, Jackie, intriguing.
While Maya is debating her role in setting to leading men against one another, Jackie is using her role with men to be a leader.
It makes me wonder about Mr. Robinson's relation to mothers and daughters...
Is this a depiction of a 'genetic predisposition?' If it is, do such assumptions have a place in a novel of a test-tube generation which is so effected by the martian environment that they develop different physiques, different mental affects?I suppose I'll have to read the last novel to find out.
