https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31202835-how-to-be-a-bawse
Initially, I didn’t want to read this book.
I had no idea who this YouTube sensation was before I started reading the book.
I, like a lot of people, love inspirational stories.
To me, Lilly Singh was born to make videos and inspire others.
She talks about how she made her first YouTube videos in 2011 because she wanted to cheer herself up.
Not because she wanted to become rich and famous, but because she needed to fight depression.
I want to see people change for the better and dodge the icebergs life puts in their way.
Before you know it, the book is over and your head is swirling with just fragments of advice.In the chapter, "Send the GPS Deep", she states "When it comes to understanding our behavior and why we do the things we do, I believe each of us has a minimum of three layers....the bottom layer consists of the deeply rooted reasons we actually behave the way we do." When Singh first announced her book, I was excited to read it and support her because I have been a long-time fan.
I don't even like Youtube and consider it a major waste of time.
I just liked the punky stype of the book and decided to give it a try.
Q: A Bawse is like a boss, but so epic that I had to change the spelling.
(c)Q: Being a Bawse is hard work.
Think about it—you write this password several times a day, so you might as well make it meaningful!
Just when I needed it the most, reading this book is like having Lilly near you as a friend and a supporter to reassure you and guide you through your life.
She doesn’t need to pretend to be someone else, speaking like Shakespeare or whatever.
She goes straight to the point and backs up her advice with her own examples and experience.It’s like a voyage into yourself that you’ve been delaying for years because you didn’t know where to start.
Well you start with this book right here.
She started from the bottom and people tend to forget that.
I read this on audiobook over the span of a few days just because it was good clean fun, but it's gonna be something that I won't even remember the message of in 2 months.
Her messages also seem to be driven by the fact that *she's* succeeded, so her if everyone just follows in her footsteps and does the things she does, they'll be famous too!!
But reading this sometimes felt like she was giving advice to 12 year olds trying to avoid drama rather than adults trying to achieve their goals.
But still, her audiobook was fun and I really love the work she does for women's rights and making wholesome content.
but of course she wasn't going to bring attention to all the ways Selena Gomez is highly problematic including her bullshit Indian/"Tribal" cultural association bullshit that pissed the Desi community off a while back.
Oh, and the picture of her with Scooter Braun elicited a similar reaction - he's the idiot that basically excuses everything Justin Bieber does, no matter how heinous, but of course he's a "nice guy" and they had such an "authentic interaction" and blah blah blah.Unnuanced.
This book will not teach you how to conquer life.
I could finish this book in one day because-1.
I didn't expect it to be great but I had hoped, and this is what probably made me impulsively pre-order the book, that she would talk more about how she overcame her severe depression and turned into this major internet personality.
However, she downplayed this a lot, focusing on making badly placed and framed pop culture references to be #relatable and in doing so severely undermines her readers' intelligence (or maybe not, I guess I deserve the flak I'm getting for bothering to read this book).
Actual review: 1.75This was the kind of book that is entertaining but hollow.
The 'pearls of wisdom' are really just a few sayings here and there that seem good when you listen to it in a hilarious voice, but without that element, it falls flat.
The humour was the only (somewhat) redeeming quality of this book that stopped me from giving it a one star review.
It lacks depth and it lacks interest.
It makes it seem like barely any effort went into creating this book.
Even as I write this review, I'm struggling to remember anything about the book I just read.
She made me discover the side of YouTube where creators roam and helped me know what to watch in that field (Jenna Marbles, Miranda Sings/Colleen Ballinger, and Grace Helbig are examples).So when she announced this book, it didn't come as a surprise to me even with getting incredibly overjoyed.
In the YouTube community or possibly giving us more literature, I'm excited to see where Superwoman will take her magic next.9/15/16 (Before Reading)I legit fanboyed SO HARD when I heard about this announcement.
Lilly Singh/Superwoman is my favorite Youtuber, and I'm incredibly excited to read this.
She shows the reader that these applications have worked for her and aided her in her successful career that started from virtually nothing.The other thing to remember is that most of Lilly's fans are all just regular young people.
Lilly has a lot of power and she does great things with that power.So I would argue that this book is going to help a lot of people in their life journies, not just because of what Lilly wrote, but because it was Lilly writing it.I also loved how How to Be a Bawse has little interactive portions in it.
2 starsQuick too simple chapters. I would have liked a bit more, well a lot more time spent on her advice. It read like a list that I could find online lacking most of her charm. Yes, there was some there, but it was so brief. I bought this for my daughters but ended up reading it after they didn't finish it. All of us were disappointed, it was too little substance and a lot of cheesy lines. Where was the life changing advice ?
I'm not sure how I came across this book. I had never heard of Lilly before but I thought her book looked like fun so I checked it out of the library. I don't think I'm the target audience for this book as she is only 28 years old and I'm old enough to be her mother! Nevertheless I enjoyed Lilly's take on life and how she became so successful as a YouTube star. The book is full of gorgeous pictures of Lilly. It was a fun read and she does have some good advice to offer.
This was such an amazing and inspiring and motivational book! I have been a fan of Lilly a.k.a iiSuperwomanii for the past 4 years and listening to her book narrated by her was an amazing experience. Would highly recommend it to people that want to get their lives in order, learn how to focus to achieve their goals, and get their priorities straight. A true guide on how to be a Bawse!
"From actress, comedian, and YouTube sensation Lilly Singh (aka ||Superwoman||) comes the definitive guide to being a bawse—a person who exudes confidence, reaches goals, gets hurt efficiently, and smiles genuinely because they’ve fought through it all and made it out the other side."I really enjoyed this book and was able to take a lot away from it.
And of course, I knew she was releasing a book and that she’s touring to promote it.The thing is, I didn’t believe it’s an actual guide on how to be a ‘Bawse’.
And though I did watch some interview where she talked about the book, I still didn’t think it’s an actual goddamn guide.I like the whole concept of the ‘Bawse’ thing but reading an entire book; this entire book felt like a waste of time.
Reading a guide is the last thing I want/ed to do.I guess the only parts of the book that I really liked were the ‘Out of the Blue’ chapters, where Lilly talks about her life before and post depression.
Lilly Singh is the only YouTube comedian I've watched who I actually find funny, so I'm really excited to read this.
Entertaining and inspiring.
Just reading from her point of view and living her adventures since she started doing YouTube and witnessing her journey through all of it, PLUS having her giving advice, and how she's trying to make us learn from her mistakes just made me respect her even more.I thought this book is very inspiring and empowering and true to its title , it does give you that push you need to feel that you're on top of your life and to WANT to conquer your life.
I can tell that it's going to be a life-changing book.
My friend went to Lilly's show and got this book.
And a great Bawse.Lilly's a very successful person and she has lots of friends who are super successful as well.
In this book, Lilly shares her secrets to success and talks about things that happen in her friends' lives.
Lilly mentions that Lindsey Stirling (love her!) still takes violin lessons!
I'm really inspired by her story.One of the things I love most about this book is the length of the chapters.
When I read books with loooonggg chapters that just go on and on, I get the urge to yell "get to the point"!AND ALSO.
:РНе бях чувала, нито попадала на клипове на Лили като почнах книгата.
И съм адски доволна, че Лили е решила да направи книга.
Добре, че съществуват различните медийни формати, които да пренасят красотата на една индустрия в друга.Книгата на Лили е като изповед и напътствия едновременно по пътя да бъдеш успешен и добър човек, защото двете неща вървят ръка за ръка.
Аз съм си песимист, хейтър и какво ли още не чудовище по природа, но книгата на Лили успя чак мен да накара да се чувствам пухкава отвътре и надъхана по един по-различен начин.
So, the latest publishing trend seems to be having Youtube stars put out their own books now.
I haven't read any of them, but I picked up Lily's book because I do watch her channel on occasion.There is nothing new or life-changing in Lily's book.
She gives out some good advice, but the book reads like a Cliff's Notes edition, each chapter is very short and when you start to grasp what she is saying, the chapter is done.
If felt like more of a photo shoot with brief stories in between.
A Self help book for someone who DOES NOT like Self help books. Someone like Me.   Lilly Singh is pretty entertaining and one of my favourite YouTuber but I admit that I  NEVER expected that I would read her book because -1. I dont like Self help books, they are just downright boring and I ve noticed that It doesn't really motivate me long enough to follow it through.2. I never considered Lilly Singh mature enough to be writing a self help book in the first place ! 3. I have a Mom ! Who takes
I never considered Lilly Singh mature enough to be writing a self help book in the first place !
What I felt about this book  The writing style is very original and Lilly like so much that I pretty much read the whole book in Lilly's voice, Its not pretentious at all but the content isn't very insightful, I loved the examples and real life situations she put up and the way she handled it.
It is Immature and the writing style isn't very fancy but then I wouldn't have finished the book ever if it wasn't like that in the first place .
She's been an inspiration and my role model since the beginning of time; all I'm going to say is that I hope March 28th 2017 comes as soon as possible *waits for eternity* The truth is, I don't even read biography memoirs that often, although I've got Scrappy Little Nobody and Buffering on my bucket list.
Honestly though, if Lilly writes the way she talks in her videos, this is going to be hilarious.
Anyway, I think I'm just going to chill on Unicorn Island and obsessively binge watch all of her videos (again).#TeamSuper
I absolutely LOVED it! Lilly is such a cool and down to earth person that I just couldn't help but adore her!
http://www.writingis.fun/%D0%BA%D0%B0...Как Лили Сингх ме научи да бъда СупершефкаКНИЖНИ РЕВЮТАTEMIPANAYOTOVAАВГУСТ 31, 20180Здравейте, четящи!Днес ще ви говоря за една биографично нехудожествена книга и за 50-те правила на Лили Сингх, които могат да променят виждането ви за нещата около вас, да усилят мотивацията ви на максимално ниво и даже може да се почувствате като един еднорог.Goodreads линк: СюжетСтраници: 316 Издателство: КивиЧитателско преживяване: 4/5 звездиПревод: Кристина ДимитроваРедактор: Елена МожоличКоректор: Мариана ПиронковаПризнавам, че не следя YouTube канала на Лили от самото му начало, но в последствие, от моя приятелка разбрах за него и моментално бях зарибена.
This book consists of short chapters which convey an important lesson she’s learned.
It, indeed, can serve as a guide to help you make some positive changes in your life.Despite how it’s put, the book is not preachy.
I liked how she has expressed her own feelings and experiences in these chapters, it makes the book more personalized.
Reading the book feels like watching her video where she’s giving me advice.
It’s fun and inspiring and it could help serve as your first step if you’re looking to start your own journey.
"Bawse" is such a brilliant, funny, and empowering book!! I have about a zillion little sticky tabs throughout this book highlighting Lilly's words of wisdom and advice. I've been watching her videos for years now and her personality just shines through in her book on conquering life! I wish some of the chapters were longer, but that's partially because I could read her words all day. The 50 chapters connected and built on one another beautifully and were incredibly inspiring to me personally. 10/10, would recommend!! <3
I honestly tend to stay away from memoirs, but damn this is Lilly Singh so very obvs I am going to read it. I personally am inspired a lot by her, and she is the only YouTuber I watch aside from Booktube! ME EXCITE. *grabby hands* (but actually I am supposed to be on a book buying ban for now so yeah whelp) *cries*
SUPERCALIFRAGILISTICEXPIALLIDOCIOUS #OneLoveSuperwoman #TeamSuperforlife
When I first heard about the book, I was sceptical. It was a   self-help/autobiographical   book written by an  international YouTube star  . Neither of the categories enticed me to shell out 700 INR for some random wisdom by a person whose videos I occasionally watched when I was killing time. But then the universe conspired, and a mention of this book would prop up every time I opened my Facebook feed. The cover looked powerful, and Lilly had become successful enough to be a Forbes 30 under 30
That’s probably one of the best things about the book-it is very action oriented; Lilly combines her learnings from her YouTube journey and her psychology major to add credibility to it.
The other commendable part of the reading experience is the book design itself.
It feels like you are reading a magazine or a coffee table book- the pages are glossy and vibrant, with a bright colour theme.
Inserted between the chapters are certain quotes written on a coloured background, which could be easily torn and used as a poster.
