https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12951.The_Turn_of_the_Screw_and_Other_Short_Fiction
Because I have been a huge fan of several film versions, I had been wanting to read this for a few decades now and have owned the book for many years. I never did care for the particular cover edition I own and that may have been why I waited so long to finally read it.Originally published in October of 1898 it is written in a high prose and has become one of the most memorable ghost stories ever published, and a fine example of classic literature.The Turn of the Screw is about a woman known as
I never did care for the particular cover edition I own and that may have been why I waited so long to finally read it.Originally published in October of 1898 it is written in a high prose and has become one of the most memorable ghost stories ever published, and a fine example of classic literature.The Turn of the Screw is about a woman known as the governess, hired on to take care of two orphans, Miles and Flora, who turn out to be very different than could ever be expected.
Henry James is an undeniable pain-in-the-ass to read. The sentences just meander along, picking up extra clauses like lint and dander, until they become so fluffy you can barely identify their original shape. Syntactically speaking, he is hard work, harder than Conrad, and about as hard as Proust.But he is great. This is an unbelievable work of fiction--one of the best horror stories in the English language. It is loaded with meaning, yet it is deliciously ambiguous. You could spend months arguing over what actually happens. Bottom line: a lot of work, but totally worth the effort.
Also includes "Washington Square," "Daisy Miller," "The Beast in the Jungle," and "The Jolly Corner" -- all 5 star stories.
In the end, I immensely enjoyed this psychologically driven suspense story.
The story centers around a governess who is newly employed to a lonely house with several other servants and two beautiful children, Flora and Miles.
The governess also senses that the children are aware of the unnatural visitors and have schemed to keep it from her, their teacher and authority.This story can be read many different ways, making it all the more delicious and rich.
She, alone, saw what she saw with no confirmation from other central characters like Miles, Flora and Mrs. Grose.
Painful. Just painful. Sentences that turn into multi-page epics that leave me wondering whether James' typewriter may have been malfunctioning so he just made do with commas instead. Only a 20-30 pages in to Turn of the Screw and I'm really trying hard not to put it down in disgust. I have to keep repeating my mantra to myself: "They are classics for a reason. They are classics for a reason." Someone liked them enough for them to stay in print this long, I just have to find out what gripped their imagination so. Perhaps they're a cure for insomnia...
It annoyed Henry James even in his own time to be compared to Jane Austen, but after reading 'Pride and Prejudice' last year, I couldn't escape the idea that I was reading a novel out of its era."So, I wondered, as I hacked my way through the tangled jungle of Henry James's tortured syntax, who exactly would find a book written in such a style appealing?It reminded me of the struggles I had in college with other boring books.
So, yes, these stories don't translate well into the contemporary appetite, but James' craft is so apparent that it shouldn't matter.
It can be a struggle to read pages so dense with prose, but in the end it calls to mind another epoch and a different style of writing that (still had the option to) politely invite the reader into its intrigues, instead of screaming brazenly for a large market of readers.I finished 'The Turn of the Screw' despite myself and had to admit it was well-crafted, suitably chilling, and also a product of its time.
With this language, James constructs the inner world and thoughts of his characters and their societies, and traces the eruptions and tremors that take place when two people meet and converse and convene.
Beyond these meetings, little happens in the stories - and, because James was so skilled at rendering the human interior in prose, little is lacking.
These stories are about people and their social agonies, and they are profound.Writing these impressions now, what is most remarkable is that James' narrative represents a part of human living in a way that is purely literary: what he does in these stories can only be done, in this way in particular, in literature - not in film or photo or game - and it is for this kind of accomplishment that literature is such a splendid treasure.
Once you can get your mind wrapped around the old language, this book leads you into a story that can be interpreted in a variety of ways. It holds mystery as you are forced to acknowledge weather the nanny is actually crazy or is actually seeing ghosts.The style may be 'old' but the story will live on forever.
I loved the ambiguity of Henry James' The Turn of the Screw: Is the unnamed Governess an astute guardian of children under peril from supernatural forces? Or is she a neurotic who sees phantoms that merely manifestations of her own madness?I've taught this novel this year for the first time, but it won't be the last.
I personally have not found one element that is clear about Flora or Miles having intercourse of any type with Miss Jessel and QuintI would like to insist here on what is a shortcoming of the novella itself, the fact that Henry James does not really examine and scrutinize the psychological situation of the two kids, and then I will try to explore a modern interpretation of the anonymous governess.The shortcoming is why and how the two kids end up in an isolated country mansion of an upper class London man who is a bachelor and the uncle of the kids.

That's my story and I'm sticking to it.Second, I have fallen in love with the way Henry James uses the word everything.
Poor Catherine, having realized how wrong she was about the man she loved, will now spend the rest of her life (and she probably has another 30-40 years) sitting in the parlour knitting.
I have tried to think of a fate more depressing that that but I'm really drawing a blank here.Also, great quote by the Dad about his life's work:“This purpose had not been preponderantly to make money--it had been rather to learn something and to do something.
Collection of stories that are, on average, pretty good. The horror stories are definitely far more successful than the other two. The Turn of the Screw and The Beast in the Jungle are particularly outstanding.
I know it is a classic, and as such, it probably is best read with a mindset that surrenders to the colloquialisms of the 19th century. That said, I found it pretty hard going. One does not read "just a little light Henry James'. For a tough linguistic brain work-out, that turns out to be a great spooki-ki-ki story, I recommend it.
This book contains the stories "Turn of the Screw," "Washington Square," "Daisy Miller," "The Beast in the Jungle," and "The Jolly Corner." Overall, I just couldn't hang with James' writing style.
The Beast in the Jungle was an interesting concept, but I feel like the story was twice as long as it needed to be.
It's funny because the introduction of the book indicated this was a story to be read twice because on second reading everything would seem more obvious and ironic.
This is more of a ghost story as well, and like Turn of the Screw I found the writing to be meandering and unclear.
I prefer the longer, funnier, and sadder Washington Square.What makes the writing of Henry James so challenging, and notorious, is its intense (to the point of almost being impenetrable) narrative density.
It is impossible to ever "skim" the work of Henry James, because he forces the reader to stroll leisurely through his tale.
If, after you finish Miller, you want to read more James, then read Square and Screw.
But I can only recommend that last two tales in the anthology, The Beast in the Jungle and The Jolly Corner, to the most studious of readers.
This Henry James collection is a strong survey of his wit, the time and different countries James lived in, and of a spectrum of the sum total of the stories he told.I may have given this collection five stars out of enthusiasm for his talents and my inexperience reading him (this is the first James I have read).
I'll own that.If you are looking for a collection in which you can get lost in the details and become absorbed by another time and far off places (if you do not split living your year between Europe and Manhattan) then this book is for you.This collection demonstrates James' talent at thoroughly captivating the reader in a fictional world.
There was an article in the New York Times a few months ago about how no one could go to the trouble to read Henry James any more.
I enjoyed Daisy Miller so I decided I’d have to read some more James and see what I thought.
It was actually a pretty standard ghost story, featuring mysteriously ominous figures from times gone by and of course creepy little children.
James does a really great job of building suspense and tension throughout the story, but the ending is kind of abrupt and not really satisfying.
There's a lot going on in the ideas or themes of the stories here that makes them worth reading.
But the basic fact of the matter is that Henry James just is not a good writer.
Yeah, yeah, it's Henry James, but if something could be written clearly in 100 words, James helps himself to 800.
It's the type of turgid stew where an "it" will refer to some vague abstraction of a feeling mentioned so far back that the original reference can longer be found.
And I realize it was written in a different era, but what other writer from the same era--whose works are still read today--has prose this turgid?
In fact, several well known ghost stories feature selective apparition, such as The Sixth Sense and even Hamlet.Because selective apparition of a spirit isn't enough to prove the insanity of the narrator, the book communicates nothing except "greasy guy looks in window" and "dead trollop stands by pond." The only way I was even aware of this diluted plot twist was by eventually breaking down and looking up the wiki page, desperate for some reason to justify my reading of a book so painfully anticlimactic.Basically, it felt like this:Homer: ...and his wife comes through the door!Bart: So?Homer: Did I mention that she was dead?Lisa: No.Homer: Well, she was.
He is not the easiest author to read but I did enjoy these stories.
Some of his stories are more convoluted than others.
I really enjoyed the first three stories (Turn of the Screw, Washington Square and Daisy Miller).
(view spoiler)[For Turn of the Screw, all the discussion I have read of it indicates a mystery as to how the boy actually died.
(hide spoiler)] I didn't enjoy the last two stories as much (The Beast in the Jungle and The Jolly Corner).
They were more inward looking and the writing was more convoluted.
I would give "Daisy Miller" and maybe "The Jolly Corner" four stars, "The Turn of the Screw" three stars...
and then I absolutely hated "Washington Square." "The Jolly Corner" and "The Turn of the Screw" are ghost stories, which makes them especially interesting for this format.
Hilariously enough, according to Wikipedia, "'Everybody likes Washington Square, even the denigrators of Henry James', wrote critic Donald Hall[2], and most other commentators have echoed the sentiment.
Even the rusty plot revolving around "the will" has charmed many critics with its old-fashioned simplicity."Give me that convoluted language, I guess.
Meh. I didn't hate it, but as an introduction to Henry James, it wasn't very good.
The whole thing just feels very dated: the tropes are very dated (dude reading the whole story from a letter), the language is very Victorian in its syntax and vocabulary.
And "The Turn of the Screw" isn't even a good ghost story on its own, the ghosts just stand there and look at the governess.
I get that James was trying to make things ambiguous by having only the governess ever outright "see" the ghosts, but that only happens in the last thirty pages.
Written in 1897, it has a very different feel from more modern horror stories such as those written by Stephen King or even Shirley Jackson in the 1950's.*Spoilers ahead* The two spirits, who wish to corrupt the two young, beautiful, brilliant and talented children under the tutelage of a woman who senses the evil and wants to protect them, don't specify in what form this corruption will take.
So I'd have to say I was disappointed and left feeling a bit foolish...unable to fully understand what I just finished reading.
Number one: it's part of the "literary canon" (although I realize that could be objected by many knowledgable folks) that I've never read and in an attempt to make myself feel better about being left out, I picked it up.
Number two: "Henry" is one of our many name options for boys and, always wanting to make the literary connection for our kids, this was the Henry I thought most people would immediately think of.
Perhaps I wasn't well enough engrossed in the language time to really connect with the book, or perhaps I'm just far too jaded as a modern person to be frightened by the idea of ghosts in a big house.
I didn't find James' writing to be as difficult to read as some have complained, as long as I read it as if the characters were speaking the words.
The Turn of the Screw was being written as if the Governess was telling the story aloud, and as such, there are a lot of pauses and fragments.
I really enjoyed reading James, though I found that he seemed to have an obsession with peoples' inability to express love or to make committments to each other.
Despite James' ambiguity, I still enjoyed this collection of short stories, particularly the Turn of the Screw.
If someone wanted to tell me a story and they started with the first sentence of Turn of The Screw, after the 5 minutes it took them to say it, I would call them an asshole and tell them to shove their ghost story up their ass.
Now you may think I’m just lashing out because I could only get through a paragraph every 20 minutes and only if I had absolute silence and was alcohol free.
This book is way above my reading level, and like most things above my level … I think it sucks.
It's dumb for someone like me to criticize a literary classic, but it's not often that I've come across a writer that moves so slooooooooooooooooowly.In 'Turn of the Screw,' any interesting buildup is ultimately followed by a letdown, leading to a confounding and frustrating ending.
There were moments when I thought it was becoming a truly scary story, but in the end it all deflated.
Along the way I became especially sick and tired of reading about the way female characters collapsed-and needed someone to fan them-every time they discovered a new detail about the plight of the orphan children they cared for.
I also find it difficult to read books where I'm not sure if I can trust the narrator.
As far as the debate over whether the ghosts were real or not, I remained skeptical throughout.
Although I'm still undecided, it seemed the governess jumped to many conclusions and became quite hysterical at times, making it hard for me to believe her.
I was also left curious as to the reaction of the crowd hearing the story.
It would have made a nice conclusion.
Why set up the whole book as a "round the fireplace" ghost-story session and not wrap it up?
