https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17399160-snow-like-ashes
I might be biased.
I wanted to be a soldier. Someone who would earn standing in Winter. Someone Sir would look at with pride. Someone Mather would look at and—No. This is one of the best high fantasy I've read this year, which might not mean much, considering the crap I've read, but I can only attest to my enjoyment of it. This book is good. But...but there's the love triangle. I’m at the center of this, a weird possessive feud between the Winter king and the Cordellan prince. Why there gotta be a love triangle,
The good thing is that both love interests are deeply likeable...which just ends up making it more painful WHEN YOU LIKE BOTH GUYS.
She's lucky to be an orphan, because that means at least she, out of her family, has survived.The kingdom of Winter lies in ruins.
It lies in the fact that Mather, the heir to Winter, is a male.
Call it a GoT clone if you want, but I quite loved the setting in this book.
One of the things I loved most about Meira is her relationship with her guardian, Sir.
No matter what happens, no matter who turns on me, no matter what pompous swine thinks he has power over me, I am still me. I will always be me. 3 1/2 stars. Okay, let's get some things straight first. Q: Will this book offer a never before seen plot with mind-blowing originality and absolutely definitely no love triangle? A: Nuh-uh. Q: But did I get completely sucked into this world and ended up wildly entertained for the last few hours in which I read the book in a single sitting? A: Hell yes
Q: Will this book offer a never before seen plot with mind-blowing originality and absolutely definitely no love triangle?
A strong heroine, royal politics, reclaiming a stolen kingdom, a touch of magic and, yes, even a love triangle.
But it is in the details of this story where the book finds its strength and still manages, in my opinion, to stand out from many of a similar ilk.For one thing, I absolutely loved Meira.
Like I should be pointing out that stupid love triangle and the same old tropes, instead of wondering who Meira will end up with and whether to drop my other books and read the sequel...
The ending of Snow Like Ashes was just WOW! So many twists and turns I didn't see coming, loved it!
Knowing the big plot twist from the very beginning diminished my anticipation of getting to the end and having that "AH HA!" moment that I love so much in stories.The world in Snow Like Ashes is a basic one.
Before Reading:Woa babe.The Title: The Synopsis: The Cover: This book better be flipping fantastic After Reading:TO my last comment- it was, it truly was flipping fantastic! I loved every second of this book. It is so unique, and the characters were written flawlessly. It was pure brilliance! Marvelous job, Sara Raasch! You truly are brilliant! For this review I am going to try a different approach to my usual review.The Plotline:The Beginning:From the view of Sir From the view of Mather From th
This book better be flipping fantastic
After Reading:TO my last comment- it was, it truly was flipping fantastic!
You truly are brilliant!
For this review I am going to try a different approach to my usual review.The Plotline:The Beginning:From the view of Sir
From the view of Mather
From the View of Mierra 
The Middle:Mather
Mierra
Okay that last one wasn't so much based on how he felt or what the emotion of the text would be like if it it was written from his point of view, it was just because Theron is awesome.
Nuff saidThe Ending:Mierra
‘‘It’s too easy to throw balance into chaos.’’ This was an interesting, mostly positive, surprise. I did not know what I was getting into, perhaps, for there are many things I wasn’t expecting to discover.While, overall, I found Meira to be a good fantasy heroine, there are some specific scenes, that could have been avoided or modifided, making her, somehow, get out of her character—a strong and fierce one. It is that she is quite reckless and there are moments when she can’t control her emotio
I did not know what I was getting into, perhaps, for there are many things I wasn’t expecting to discover.While, overall, I found Meira to be a good fantasy heroine, there are some specific scenes, that could have been avoided or modifided, making her, somehow, get out of her character—a strong and fierce one.
Incidentally, while I did like his character, I think it would be more interesting if he and Meira, in the sequels, stayed friends and build a strong boy/girl friendship because, effectively, those are possible.The writing was one thing I liked most of this story.
Recycling My First Reviews: A Trip Down Memory Lane, Vol. 1  Then  ..Snow and ice and frost above, that was ONE OF THE BEST BOOKS I HAVE EVER READ!I can't believe it took me so long to start reading it! Everything, everything that makes fantasy my favorire genre was dominant in Snow Like Ashes; the unique world Sara Raasch created, with the magic's source, the division of the nations based on the season/weather, the evil, cruel monarch who sought unlimited power without hesitating to meddle wit
Everything, everything that makes fantasy my favorire genre was dominant in Snow Like Ashes; the unique world Sara Raasch created, with the magic's source, the division of the nations based on the season/weather, the evil, cruel monarch who sought unlimited power without hesitating to meddle with dark forces, the insane plot twists, the battles and, above all, a heroine who desperately wanted to find her place in the world without realizing that the fate of her nation depended on her.
, though: Do NOT, I repeat DO NOT read the second instalment, Ice Like Fire.
The book is from Meira’s point of view, so I feel like I’m mainly missing her spark, something to pull her out and say I’m not just an average heroine.Meira has her temper tantrums and whiney moments like other YA novels, but that’s not all there is to her and they’re fewer than most female leads I’ve seen in a while.
(view spoiler)[ Still kind of ticked that Mather knew Meira was the real princess and got mad at her for doing what she had to.
I did predict something that happens REALLY early on in the book though which sucked, but I absolutely fell in love with Prince Theron!
4.5 stars (almost 5).I kept getting this book mixed up with Shatter Me so I stalled on reading it, but it's like this glorious little whirlwind of a YA fantasy plot that made me eat every single word I've ever said against YA tropes.
But before that happens, she gets to angst over whether she likes Mather, the only guy she's ever known who's remotely around her age, or Theron, the prince of the kingdom where Meira's squad flees to.
I liked both Mather and Theron...
I just really love snow, so any story that mentions an icy area gets automatic stars.
Well this book was an amazing novel which I will not be forgetting for a long time.
Being the second fantasy novel of the year 2015 that I have read It has not disappointed!
Bear with me, I do not normally type reviews but I will give this a go!
http://www.bookdepository.com/Snow-Li...Right, I feel in love with the whole setting and world of this novel.
Meira was a wonderful character who even on the first page showed determination!
This book is filled with twists and turns that you would ALL love!
Sorry for this rushed review, I much prefer talking to my camera....LOVEBen ox
I HATE love triangles with a passion, but this book did it so fucking well.
This book has me shook, you guys I can't even explain how badly I fucking loved this.
One small problem I had with this book was THE FUCKING LOVE TRIANGLE, which was extremely well done, BUT ANNOYING AS FUCK WHEN YOU REALLY LIKE BOTH GUYS, BUT FUCKING MATHER ALL THE WAY BECAUSE.
Listen Sara Raasch knows how to write a fucking love triangle and she write it fucking good.
GO READ IT.I NEED THE NEXT BOOK BC THAT FUCKING LOVE TRIANGLE IS SLOWLY KILLING ME.
I probably would have rated this a tad lower, but ( and I can't BELIEVE I'm saying this ) I adored the love triangle.I KNOW, RIGHT?!No one is as surprised by that statement as I am.And it is a love triangle. There's the boy she's loved all of her life, and then there's the boy she's forcibly engaged to. Guess which one I picked?The new guy!Again, no one is as surprised as I am. I'm a HUGE sucker for the We've-Been-Friends-Forever sort of love. Plus, there's no easy winner in this triangle. Like,
There's the boy she's loved all of her life, and then there's the boy she's forcibly engaged to.
Guess which one I picked?The new guy!Again, no one is as surprised as I am.
Like, it doesn't turn out that Mr. Boy Next Door is hiding nefarious plans for world domination or anything.
Sorry.There's magical relics, quests, a tough heroine, honorable princes, an evil villain, secrets, and dreams from a dead queen.Read it for yourself if you want to know more.I will say that at times my mind did wander a bit between action scenes, but that's typical for me because I have the attention span of a squirrel, and doesn't necessarily reflect poorly on the book.
I was feeling epic! ♡
Brilliant debut. Sarah Raasch gave fans of YA medieval fantasy exactly what they wanted. This book had a lot of action without being too bogged down in details and there was never a dull moment. I found the protagonist believable and I really enjoyed her love interest, Theron. He is exactly my kind of prince:) I am looking forward to the sequel -especially if it involves a lot of rivalry between Mather & Theron. Not huge on love triangles but love to see them acting jealous;P
But besides those deja-vu sensations, I have to say Snow Like Ashes had a bit of everything from the tales we've come to love: the burden of a young monarch that has to rebuild a crushed kingdom, too many vile kings to keep count, a touch of magic and a gloriously fierce heroine you cannot help than cheer for.
<3P.S.: I have a feeling that the title for the 3rd book will start with Frost, because Meira said once "Snow and ice and frost above" and I was like BINGO.
The main character spends the entire story trying to find in him/herself a reason to feel important on his own, by virtue only of his spiritual or whatever strength, and then it turns out that all this internal struggle was totally unnecessary because -oh, I'm a friggin' (view spoiler)[queen and the magic you've been looking for in the past sixteen damn years it's in me because I AM THAT SPESHAL (hide spoiler)].
That pain is less horrible than the pain of forgetting.” *Some minor spoilers may ensue*Reread <3This is my second time reading "Snow Like Ashes" and though it does starts out slow, once I get to a certain part, I'm hooked!
I also love that the people resemble the Season/Rhythm in-witch they come from.
For example: Winterians have white hair, very pale skin, and bright blue eyes.
Cordellans usually have golden brown hair, brown eyes and light skin, though not as pale as Winterians, etc...I love strong, fearless, bad-ass heroines and I got that with Meira.
The synopsis...The cover...The title...PLEASE BE GOOD!
Shaky in places, but nonetheless awesome. Filled with hope and sincerity and the feel of a good old-fashioned fantasy adventure with a soft, poignant edge.Full review to come.
******************** 4.5 STARS ******************** "Someday we will be more than words in the dark." This book really surprised me! I didn't really think I'd enjoy Snow Like Ashes because all the reviews seemed to range from mixed to just plain average. I just ended up putting this series off until now because the premise honestly sounded so interesting and I figured I should just form my own opinion and see for myself how I'd like this book.At first, I thought that the beginning was a little
I just ended up putting this series off until now because the premise honestly sounded so interesting and I figured I should just form my own opinion and see for myself how I'd like this book.At first, I thought that the beginning was a little 
I was practically almost skimming because I was so eager to know what happened next lol.I LOVED THE SEASONS/RHYTHM WORLD.
I never knew we'd have a love triangle in the story prior to reading the book because there wasn't too much buzz about it.
Contrary to numerous opinions, I love romance in books.
"I can feel him eyeing Mather, both of them caught in an awkward web surrounding me. I'm at the center of a weird possessive feud between the Winter king and the Cordellan prince. How in the name of all that is cold did that happen?" I have no idea. But of course, no love triangle is complete without manly preening!  "It whacks into the center of the target, the handle wobbling from force. Theron turns to me, half his face slight with the beginnings of a smile. "My weapon of choice doesn't matt
"I can feel him eyeing Mather, both of them caught in an awkward web surrounding me.
"My weapon of choice doesn't matter," he says, continuing our conversation like nothing happened.
Also like Avatar, Snow Like Ashes' world is split into four countries: Spring, Summer, Autumn, and Winter.
Only female heirs can use magic, which is pretty awesome.
(view spoiler)[Though in hindsight, it's used to facilitate the twist that Meira is Hannah's daughter, which is less awesome.
When Meira first arrives in Spring, she hears someone curse, "Golden leaves," then proceeds to spend a big, unnecessary paragraph explaining it.
That explains Captain Dominick's curse earlier--golden leaves."
The last time I've ever loved a YA Fantasy with a female heroine this much was when I read The Girl of Fire and Thorns Trilogy by Rae Carson.
YES!* Is this a book with a strong heroine?
YES!* Is this a book with a strong and relatable heroine?
YES!* Is this a book with a strong and relatable heroine that also undergoes massive character development?
It's that Snow Like Ashes is a goddamn good book and you need to buy it and read it and treasure it forever and ever.
I found myself skipping entire paragraphs and even whole pages because I was too bored to keep reading.The ending was predictable and as underwhelming as the rest of the book.
I feel like Snow Like Ashes had great potential but was executed really poorly, with average writing, boring characters and a plot that was going nowhere.
I still think a lot of people are going to enjoy this book, but if you've read a lot of YA fantasy and you're sick of seeing the same things happen all over again, Snow Like Ashes might not be the right book for you.
Every time someone asks me about Throne of Glass, I want to chuck Snow Like Ashes at their faces and yell something along the lines of, "Read this thing instead!" Of course, people won't listen to me if I don't justify my suggestion. Here's why I recommend everyone should pick up Snow Like Ashes:Meira knows how to kick ass.“No matter what happens, no matter who turns on me, no matter what pompous swine thinks he has power over me, I am still me. I will always be me.”All her life, all Meira want
Every time someone asks me about Throne of Glass, I want to chuck Snow Like Ashes at their faces and yell something along the lines of, "Read this thing instead!" Of course, people won't listen to me if I don't justify my suggestion.
Here's why I recommend everyone should pick up Snow Like Ashes:Meira knows how to kick ass.“No matter what happens, no matter who turns on me, no matter what pompous swine thinks he has power over me, I am still me.
Personally, I thought he and Meira and some wonderful chemistry, and I squealed to my heart's delight each time they would have a scene together.Yeah, there is this other guy...Okay, so, there is a love triangle.
"Someday, we will be more than words in the dark." For a long time, YA Fantasy was repetitive and boring, with the same special snowflakes, the same innocent, pure heroines. All the stories were formulaic, as if it wasn’t physically possible to write anything different.Lately, though, YA fantasy has started branching out. It was easily forgotten how much this reader loved the magic and forbidden love stories, the strange creatures that lurked in the dark, the different kingdoms, the results of
Snow Like Ashes, even though it followed the “special snowflake” trope, was all of the above and more.Meira is a Winteranian soldier, one of the twenty-five survivors that escaped the night Angra, King of Spring, invaded.
Finally, she can show Sir just how good she is!Once the locket pieces are restored, Mather, the love interest and prince of Winter, can return to his rightful place on the throne and free the Winteranians from the brutal work camps run by the ruthless Angra.
Meira is a special snowflake.
So let's make snow angels and hug icicles because I LOVE THIS BOOK.But, also, I have logical things to say.
So then there's Mather, the future king, but you know...he and Meira are just ragged 16-year-olds in a group of 7 refugees (the ONLY 7 free people of the Winterians).
We know Meira has a crush on him, but she's nobody and he's future KING.
Also, I know I'm bad but...I actually shipped Theron and Meira.
Plus I just really loved the world.OKAY SO THIS BOOK IS GREAT NOW GO READ IT.
All they need to do is find the other half and get the magic back, easy task, right?
and Magic disappeared.♥ Autumn (Female) ♥ Summer (Male) Rhythms: ♥ Yakim (Female) ♥ Ventralli (Male) ♥ Paisly (Female)  ♥ Cordell (Male)King Angra destryoed Winter and killed their queen and enslaved their people.
Meira's mission is to find Winter's conduit and restore magic to free her people.
I’m strong enough on my own—me, Meira, no magic or conduit or anything.” I.
I'm so glad I was peer pressured by BookTube to read this book.Snow Like Ashes had quite a number of virtues worthy of discussion, but I was especially fond of its characters, Meira and Prince Theron in particular.
Meira was basically a great heroine in the making who did all in her power to emancipate her kingdom, while Prince Theron was a charming bookworm/intellectual who refused to follow the crooked footsteps of his insufferable father.
I don't want to spoil anyone, so all I can say is that Meira and Prince Theron's interactions were so witty, innocent and delightful.
