https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9655819-the-vampire
The Vampires by Montague Summers Learn the origins of the Vampire, the generation of the Vampire, the traits and practices of Vampirism, learn about Vampires in literature, and more!If you try to read this composition purely for pleasure, you may be disappointed.
This book is a very thorough collection of Vampire folklore, literature, and facts.
Excerpt:"It may now be asked how a human being becomes or is transformed into a vampire, and it will be well here to tabulate the causes which are generally believed to predispose persons to this demoniacal condition.
He professed to believe in the existence of witches, vampires, faeries, and 
THese instances are related somewhat t0 vampires.What are vampires supposed too bee like, well prior to the movies and novels which glamorized theme.
Or like mentioned earlier suicides and those buried outside a cemetery or had a violent death may end up becoming a vampire.
Many strategies are discussed in the book.Sometimes family obligations bring about the vampire.
THe family member them self might become a vampire.In China the bones f a dead person can become reanimated by the po or the lower soul.
If there was a point to this book, the author failed to find it. It is mostly excerpts from other books. Some were in English, but the majority of the quotes were in Latin, Greek, and French. Other than trying to show how "well-read" the author was, it would have better served him to have hired an editor. Pathetically vain.
This book was slow-going for the first half, and the part I best enjoyed was the critique of Vampire fiction at the back.
The author is fairly restrained and scholarly when speaking of the history of vampire myth.
It is when he is reviewing works by other authors on the same subject, that he is at his most amusing.
All in all, this book is great for anyone interested in the truth behind all the vampire legend, but a light summer-read it is not.
As a book you read for pleasure, this book scores a strong two stars.
As a book you read for information, it rates a solid five.
I am compromising.Montague Summers knew and wrote more about vampires, werewolves and who knows what else than any man of his time.
If you want to know about the world view of these creatures, Summers has it.
You say you prefer to learn about the traditional Eastern European beliefs?
No problem, Summers is your man.And he writes about it in flowery, urn-of-the-century English that is dry as a bone and filled with anecdotes, stories, first-hand accounts, and legends.
had some tedious stuff about miracles and saints, but the connection was made between that and the vampire myth, my favorite chapter being the one about the myths of the middle-east, china, and other ancient countries.
A fantastic reference book and one that has aged quite well in spite of the scientific advances since then.
This book is incredibly informative. It's got tons of legend & lore for lovers of vampire fiction.
Another book on my shelf that I haven't actually taken out the time to read, but plan to quite soon and am excited about it.
Thank you, Marvel Comics, in their B & W magazines like Vampire Tales, which serialized this public-domain source!
This is the most definitive edition of Summers's inaugural work on vampires to date, but I'm probably bias.
ΠΟΛΥ ΚΑΛΟ ΚΑΙ ΑΝΤΙΠΡΟΣΩΠΕΥΤΙΚΟ ΤΟΥ ΕΙΔΟΥΣ. ΠΡΟΤΙΜΩ ΟΜΩΣ ΤΗΝ ΕΜΙLΙ GERARD KAI TON CALMET.
