https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19161904-the-criminal
Yeah, it has the feel of a lot of Jim Thompson books in that all people are bastards but it wasn't quite as bleak as the others.
Sure, the Talbert boy went through the wringer and his parents and the lawyers didn't have a picnic but the main characters got off kind of light.The thing that I really liked about The Criminal was the use of a variety of viewpoint characters.
The Criminal is a pretty short book but Thompson used close to ten viewpoint characters and gave each a unique voice.
The title of this low-key masterpiece (low key for Jim Thompson, anyway) is either highly ironic or an oblique reference to almost every character in the book (or, of course, maybe both).
In the main, its title refers to Bob Talbert, a teenager accused of killing a girl after she seduces him.
Thus, the narrators emerge as criminals of a different sort, self-interested and mostly unconcerned with the truth of the affair.
Some of Thompson's most famous novels feature the psychological disintegration of their protagonists.
In The Criminal, it is the plot itself that disintegrates.
A Jim Thompson novella, a story of the effects a rape and murder has on several players involved with the case told from all points of view, except the dead girl, building a picture of a town and of events where nobody is really innocent of anything through shrewd observations of human behaviour.
This is Thompson in 1953 writing about the death of the American dream, the death of the fallacy of small town innocence, the death of the traditional family, pretty much the death of everything except the person who died.
Once more, he's ahead of his time.
Series of 1st person accounts of the major players surrounding a case of rape and murder of a teenage girl.
Many of the narrations are savagely funny.
All of them are dark confessions on the case and the outcome.
Whatever truth means doesn't matter as much as getting over on the other guy does.
The best and worst elements of Jim Thompson's writing style are displayed here.
That's not a knock against the novel.
It was likely written quickly, in a single draft with little editing.
The best chapters are the early ones before the novel descends into a hell of its own making.
This was a gripping, fascinating story with an original plot, realistic characters and a lot of suspense alongside the story.
What is clear, though, is that all of the other narrators in the novel are criminals because they are guilty of lying, or abuse of power, or some species of crime in a similar genus as Bob is clearly being railroaded toward a conviction.
It’s a bit odd because who are they narrating to?
These are freely offered, after the fact accounts, that make no effort to exonerate their narrator.
THE CRIMINAL is a simple story, one of murder and guilt (or lack there of).
It uses the Thompson signature of the unreliable narrator better than anyone else, and undermines/underpins a narrative by changing character at least half a dozen times throughout the course of the tale.
What sets THE CRIMINAL apart from the majority of Thompson's work is how current it still is.
The case is tried in the papers, guilt is attributed and reinforced by the moulding of public opinion.
It's incredibly thought provoking, relevant, intelligent and most of all frightening.
Frightening to think that the difference between guilt and innocence, freedom and incarceration is perception.
Short but bittersweet ...the building up to a sex crime was inevitable. After the deed happens the perspective changes, I have the sense Thompson makes the reader observe several viewpoints through various individuals eyes, simultaneously playing with ones sense of red thread, like a theatre play. Good read.
It's more of a character study and an indictment of the criminal justice system.The tale revolves around the rape and murder of a young woman.
Each character has his or her own view as to whether the young man charged deserves to be.
The son describes how the event occurred, but the tale leaves off at a crucial moment, such that we as readers don't know whether the man did or did not do the killing; what we do learn, though, is that the man was seduced and the woman was not so innocent as one might think.
This means that though the DA may well have thought the man innocent, the legal system feels obligated to charge the teen.

This was a unique idea, but I was really turned off by Thompson's depictions of women. the women in this book where caricatures molded from the most extreme stereotypes. They were not believable at all. I know it was written in the 1950s and that has to be taken into account, but I was offended and disappointed by the way they were portrayed. Also, I didn't like the fact that we never really find out anything. Was he guilty? Was he convicted? The story never tells us.
This could almost be called a satire of a crime novel rather than a crime novel itself. Thompson portrays how a rape and murder becomes something that everybody has to get an angle on, and writes the book revolving in the first person through a number of characters points of view. Parts of it are brilliant, but it is very slight and very short.
liked the idea of a bunch of different first person perspectives of a murder. But the execution was lacking. Too many characters strayed from the main narrative thrust. exists better as a workshop idea
Whereas the big hitters are exercises in suffocating madness, with the reader forced into a psychopath's company and never given respite from their warped psyche, The Criminal flits around from character to character, chapter by chapter, with the story allowed to build around the individuals' testimonies.Indeed, it is a kind of 'message novel.' Thompson even goes so far as to spell it out:"It's difficult to place a rope around a man's neck: the law, slowly evolving through the centuries, winding its way up through dungeons and torture chambers, emerging at last into the sunlight, intended it to be difficult [...] the law has changed, but people have not.
A quick little novella about the violent rape and murder of a fourteen year old girl and the teenage boy arrested for the crime.
Told in alternating first-person narrative from everyone including the boy's mother and father, the newspaper editor, a beat reporter, attorney both of the prosecution and defense, in edition to others superficially involved in the case, the novella draws parallels to Netflix' Making a Murderer.The obviously parallel is between the fictional main suspect, Robert Talbert, and Brenden Dassey, the real life teen who was convicted of assisting his uncle, Steven Avery, in the murder of Teresa Halbach.
"The Criminal" is a terrific piece of literature that is an entire departure from the norm of Jim Thompson"s work.
The story is not centered around the ravings of some twisted, one-legged psychopath.
What's really great about this book is how deftly Thompson speaks with people's voices.
You can really believe you are hearing these people narrate as they talk about the mundane and go off on meaningless tangents.
Plotwise, it is a story about a small town, about seemingly friendly neighbors, about juvenile delinquency, about young teenagers, about a seductive young teenager, about jumping to conclusions, about the corruption of the news business, and the empty promises of Justice.
He cuts school and heads to the golf course, hoping to pick up a couple of rounds of caddying to earn the cash he needs.
He cuts through the woods only to encounter a young neighborhood vamp; they've known each other since elementary school and have been close off and on through the years.
He does not continue to the clubhouse but remains in the woods waiting for school to end so that he can return home without facing an inquisition of questions.
Without too much effort, any little American town can take a slightly rebellious kid and make him The Criminal.
Thompson was well into his paperback original phase by this point, but literary ambition still looms in this fascinating but not fully successful multi-vocal novel.
We can't know the boy is guilty but are instead invited to speculate whether culpability lies elsewhere, not necessarily for the actual crime, as we are invited to see each of the narrators as culpable in some way the parents either for being too harsh or not harsh enough, the crusading newspaperman for deliberately inflaming the case, the DA for putting career interests ahead of the truth, etc.
Thompson's no Faulkner, so the voices lack the genuine differentiation they need for this to really work, but it is an interesting experiment, and I do give him points for refusing ultimately to answer the question of guilt.
En esta novela no tan conocida del norteamericano tenemos una típica trama de asesinato que le sirve como contexto para realizar una crítica feroz de todo lo que pilla: capitalismo, sindicatos, periodistas como tiburones, justicia corrupta, la sociedad..
y sobre todo el egoísmo de cada persona que antecede sus intereses a los de una persona acusada de asesinato que ni siquiera se sabe si es culpable.
Si a ello unimos la maestría habitual a la hora de presentar los conflictos y manejar el tiempo narrativo, pues tenemos, como siempre, una muy buena novela, negra negrísima.

Ah, this had so much potential... It's not really a spoiler because the truth is established early on in the read; basically a young girl is raped and murdered, and a teenage boy is wrongly accused as the perpetrator. The story is told in first person POV-form, with the perspectives of everyone from the boy's parents to a skeptical newspaper reporter to the swayed by the masses district attorney. Conceptually, this should be a Jim Thompson surefire winner; rather it's too concise; the players aren't developed, and there's little in terms of actually suspense.
A young boy is accused of a crime he may or may not have committed. Each chapter told entirely from a different character's perspective, unraveling a new piece of the puzzle, it's hard to know which version of the story to believe. You're left with a story told by all nearly unreliable narrators, and never sure of the boy's guilt or innocence. But I think that's part of this book's genius. Pretty different from Thompson's other novels thematically, but unreliable narrators are his bread and butter.
The revolving POV (point-of-view) novel doesn't always work, but in the hands of Jim Thompson it's brilliant. The story of a wrongfully accused teenager for the rape-murder of the girl next door is told through everyone's increasingly more outrageous perspective as the book goes on, including an eyewitness account from a little black boy (President Abraham Lincoln Jones, who was probably fifty blocks away from the scene of the crime). Not one of Thompson's more major novels but brilliant in its own right.
first few chapters are pretty awful --it's obvious jim thompson despises common people, but he hops the first person perspective from characterto character, showing not one person in the small town who isn't corrupt.would not be surprised if this was an inspiration for HBO's The Wire,consciously or not.
Certainly had its great moments, but didn't fully land for me. The narrative changing perspectives so frequently kept things lively, but it also kept me at a bit of a remove from the characters. The story itself has interesting things to say about media and criminality, but was ultimately a bit thin.
After having read "The Getaway," "The Killer Inside Me," "The Grifters," and "Pop. 1280," I'm now going through the rest of Jim Thompson's books. This one, "The Criminal," revolves around the rape and murder of a teenage girl in a small town. Thompson is a hardcore writer who never disappoints.
This book is brief, well-paced and fun to read. The rape/murder at the heart of the book is really just an incidental detail in the broader scope of an average American town in moral decrepitude. The book reads like a treatise on the 7 deadly sins and all manner of pettiness and their effects on the quotidian existence in modern America.
Great concept for a book, loved the style - personal accounts from a bunch of different people someway involved to the incident. I liked the "point" of the book, as well, but the ending was just way too abrupt. It doesn't leave you hanging necessarily, but it also doesn't feel fleshed out enough. Would have given it three or four stars otherwise.
The Criminal takes a great look at how shaky our versions of "truth" can become when the pressure is on. First-person narratives, from several characters involved in an investigation, give a startling look at what we're capable of when we're forced to "push back."
I expected a different type of book. Although the book started out quite interesting, it fizzled for me. I don't want to read about the general corrupt nature of humans. I just simply wanted to read a murder mystery book. I couldn't wait to finish this book....because I was so bored by it :-(
