https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/868211.The_Poems_of_Gerard_Manley_Hopkins
136 years on and still one of the best poems ever.Márgarét, áre you gríevingOver Goldengrove unleaving?Leáves like the things of man, youWith your fresh thoughts care for, can you?Ah! ás the heart grows olderIt will come to such sights colderBy and by, nor spare a sighThough worlds of wanwood leafmeal lie;And yet you wíll weep and know why.Now no matter, child, the name:Sórrow’s spríngs áre the same.Nor mouth had, no nor mind, expressedWhat heart heard of, ghost guessed:It ís the blight man was born for,It is Margaret you mourn for.
POEMS: GERARD MANLEY HOPKINS. (this ed. 1999). ****. This was a Folio Society publication, with an introduction and notes by Norman H. MacKenzie. Hopkins (1844-1889) was an English poet and a Roman Catholic convert. He became a priest in the S.J. order, and spent time in Ireland. His poems are not typical of those of most of the Victorian poets of the time. His work only became popular and available to the public after his death – primarily because of his duties to the priesthood. I have no idea
POEMS: GERARD MANLEY HOPKINS.
Hopkins (1844-1889) was an English poet and a Roman Catholic convert.
His poems are not typical of those of most of the Victorian poets of the time.
His work only became popular and available to the public after his death – primarily because of his duties to the priesthood.
I have no idea how to critique poetry, but can only urge you to seek out Hopkins’ work and read it – aloud.
Of the poems collected in this book, I particularly liked “Moonrise,” The Windhover,” “Spelt From Sibyl’s Leaves,” and “Harry Pledgham.” As I mentioned, these poems were meant to be read aloud in order to capture the rhythm he built into them.
the best
I have owned and loved these poems since the Sixties and never forgotten several that I learned by heart in my teens, but I only started to appreciate them with the help of a biography of Hopkins by Paul Mariani, which I have just finished reading alongside a pretty Folio edition of the poems.
(First read 12/2016)As a naive reader of GMH, his language feels immediately fresh and unfamiliar, potent with energy and unexpected explosions, such as in "Windhover" -- "Brute beauty and valour and act, oh, air, pride, plume, here / Buckle!", and even in his terrible melancholia "Time's eunuch, and not breed one work that wakes.
We instress the inscape of a tulip, Hopkins would say, when we appreciate the particular delicacy of its petals, when we are enraptured by its specific, inimitable shade of pink."Or the best example of that "singularity" and its energy is in the Windhover, the "mastery of a thing".
(One author argues that Hopkins could not have been Hopkins without a devotion to God to drive his verse; but Nature has always served poets adequately in this regard…) His friend and editor, Robert Bridges, in the afterword quite accurately describes Hopkins’s faults: the grammar and syntax is unusually elliptical and out of order, exacerbated by the use of ambiguous words or simply obscure ones, often jammed together or rewritten to suit the rhythm (scrambling the sense even further), and the use of appallingly conventional rhymes.
In my penultimate year at school, the poetry component of my English Literature class was a comparative study of collections by Emily Dickinson and Gerard Manley Hopkins.
The beauty of nature is, to him, an expression of God's love for humanity, and poetry is, to him, a way of communicating gratitude to God. But in this cycle of admiration and dedication, there is something very crucial that is lost.
Thou Art Indeed Just, Lord and I Wake and Feel the Fell of Dark are full of questions, made all the more poignant by their lack of response, and express doubt, insecurity, curiosity, a longing for answers and a lamentation of the universe's silence to his words.
Definitely my favourite repressed Catholic homosexual.Bring it Gerry.Seriously, GMH is the fucking king of the long dark night of the soul.His beautiful poems are stunning, but I love his misery more. Carrion Comfort is ... just perfect. It's shocking to see the extraordinary music of something like Pied Beauty twisted into this wail of grief and fear.NOT, I’ll not, carrion comfort, Despair, not feast on thee; Not untwist—slack they may be—these last strands of man In me ór, most weary, cry I ca
Definitely my favourite repressed Catholic homosexual.Bring it Gerry.Seriously, GMH is the fucking king of the long dark night of the soul.His beautiful poems are stunning, but I love his misery more.
It's shocking to see the extraordinary music of something like Pied Beauty twisted into this wail of grief and fear.NOT, I’ll not, carrion comfort, Despair, not feast on thee;	Not untwist—slack they may be—these last strands of man	In me ór, most weary, cry I can no more.
That night, that year	Of now done darkness I wretch lay wrestling with (my God!) my God.I also once highly erroneously named a book The Leaden Echo & the Gold.
Hopkins is one of the greatest poets of all time. Wonderfully luminous.
I found this collection of poetry deeply touching. I learned so much from the array of topics! My only frustration was that this felt to me to be a very private collection of poems, some obviously works in progress. Posthumously published works sometimes leave one with the feeling that the author would not have released everything just yet. Some feel intensely spiritual and speak to Hopkins' understanding and relationship with God.

Great freakin' cover. Used to sit and read "The Winderhover" once a day in 2005... "I caught this morning morning's minion, kingdom of daylight's dauphin dapple-dawn-drawn falcon, in his riding. Of the rolling level underneath him steady air, and striding. High there..." Gorgeous. Wonderful bio criticism of Hopkins in Buechner's "Speak What We Feel, Not What We Ought To Say", just FYI.
Picked this up in a tiny village in the Cotswolds, mostly because I like Hopkins, could stand to get further acquainted with him, and because I'm weak to a really pretty hardcover edition of poetry with its own case. Particularly when I'm on holiday. Even if it is a selected edition.
Beautiful poetry that feels like golden honey dripping, then flying, then cascading off the page.I am aware that honey only really drips but I don't have the lyrical power of Hopkins. Read the poems and be transported into the very heart of Nature's power with all it's sounds, smells and tastes.
I'm always reading Hopkins, but this time through, I'm attempting to memorize a few of my favorites as well--especially since his poetry goes so well with walking while drinking in the wonder of the world.
LOVE Gerard Manley Hopkins poetry! Could recite The Windhover - ALL DAY!
Genius
Hopkins is so amazing. His sonnets are so tight and innovative. And for a monk, such intense conflict! And so daaaaaaaaark.
He speaks my soul language!
He points to trends that became evident in other poets during the twentieth century, even though few people read his work until decades after his death.
Hopkins's mold-breaking work expressed a certain improvisation, as befits someone who hardly ever published his poetry and thought of it as a hobby.
However, Hopkins definitely took his work seriously, poured great energy into it, and saw poetry in philosophical tones verging on mystical (according to the book's introduction).
The extravagence of his language proves his love of life, despite some dour pronouncements on the fate of humanity.The introductory material in this volume was very helpful in establishing Hopkins's course of life and personality.
Fr. Hopkins's poetry can be difficult. It can also be beautiful. He is certainly important as a theorist, recognizing the English language did not fit neatly into the traditions of strict meter. There is a musicality to his poems.What he actually has to say can range from the banal to the sublime — and sometimes it is not easy to tell just what he is saying. I don't mind puzzling things out but here it can occasionally be a bit much. A good poet, some good poems, maybe a few great ones, and worth reading.
Excellent introduction by Gardner. Hopkins is quite a challenge--most of his poems wear me out; some, however, are sublime.
Hopkins is my favorite poet. His words contain an electricity of potent truth in them.
Poetry is just not my thing, but I've got to try it every once in a while.
Wanna get high? Just read this guy!
The most dynamic of Hopkins' poems deserve five stars. Their rhymes and chimes are so kind to the ear. But there are some more boring pieces in here which lack that euphony. In Hopkins I think I've found Seamus Heaney's, my favorite poet, precursor or chief influence.
The octet proposes the problem, the sestet solves it; somewhere in between lies a moment poets call “the turn.” In this poem, the turn happens when the Windhover dives down to a farmer working a plow, when the imagery moves from bird to human to ground, and then returns back to the sky.
When the bird is hovering, Hopkins compares it to a “king” on a horse (white or otherwise).
Behind the falcon may be a King, but under the horse’s hoof’s are all kinds of treasures: first “fire,” and then “blue-bleak embers,” and then “gash gold vermilion.” To plow the ground is to cut through the light; the “sheer plod” of plowing behind a horse reveals in the earth not just dark soil but gold.
Why do men then now not reck his rod?Generations have trod, have trod, have trod; And all is seared with trade; bleared, smeared with toil; And wears man’s smudge and shares man’s smell: the soilIs bare now, nor can foot feel, being shod.And for all this, nature is never spent; There lives the dearest freshness deep down things;And though the last lights off the black West went Oh, morning, at the brown brink eastward, springs—Because the Holy Ghost over the bent World broods with warm breast and with ah!
If you want to read it online, you will find it here.


