https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/313619.Hudson_Taylor_s_Spiritual_Secret
This book is valuable.
But it will get you thinking about the type of power (or weakness?) it takes to abide in the Almighty.
He learned, as far as I can tell, to truely abide in Christ.
The vine is not the root merely, but all- root, stem, branches, twigs, leaves, flowers, and fruit."When I pair that understanding with the scripture about Jesus as the vine (John 15:5) as well as the fruit of the Spirit (Galations 5:22), it is so valuable!
If you are wondering what it would look like to rest in the Lord, while being about His work, read this book.
What a life! J. Hudson Taylor is one of my heroes. My wife and I were so moved by this life of faith as we read it in this particular book that we unanimously decided to name our first son after him. The fact that the book was written by his grandson just makes it that much more effective.
Hudson Taylor's life is an inspiration and wonderful example of what it means to follow the call of God and not look back.
His story is also convicting.
'Except a corn of wheat fall into the ground and die, it abideth alone.' We know how the Lord became fruitful - not by bearing His cross merely, but by dying on it.
There are not two Christs - an easy-going one for easy-going Christians, and a suffering, toiling one for exceptional believers.
Are you willing to abide in Him, and thus to bear much fruit?" - H.T.
The title is what I needed; Hudson Taylor's Spiritual Secret.
That little book, picked up by chance from the throwaway books in the ship's library still impacts me forty-five years later.Hudson Taylor stands in history as perhaps one of the greatest missionaries of all time.
Perhaps his greatest was making time to be in God's presence.
Take time to read His Word as in His presence that from it you may know what He asks of you and what He promises you.
Hudson Taylor's Spiritual Secret (pp.
Hudson Taylor's Spiritual Secret (pp.
While Hudson Taylor's life was one to be commemorated and looked up to, I found this book difficult to get through.
I read it between books for months and only finished it because I made myself.
It was written by his son and daughter in law, but I felt they didn't do a good job explaining things or making it interesting.
They mention the Boxer Rebellion in passing, but don't explain at all what happened.
I enjoyed the diary excerpts and was moved by his life, but would read a biography written by someone else next time.
Hudson Taylor's Spiritual Secret is not a page-turner; it's a heart-stirrer.
I'll admit that at first, I expected this book to be pretty dry.
When I first picked it up, I could barely get past the first couple of chapters, but after putting it down for a while, I came back to it.
This biography of missionary Hudson Taylor seems pretty average for most of the book, but the last couple of chapters I found absolutely amazing.
Still, it spoke to my heart in a powerful way, and I'm glad that I stuck it out and finished this book.
What I read was account after account of a mighty God who supplies every need and answers the specific prayers of his children who ask on Jesus's account.The account is written by his son/daughter-in-law based in a narration of his and other's personal letters.
And Jesus isn't just a powerful prayer-answer but a fountain of daily joy and rest that says to Hudson and all "come and drink, and you'll never be thirsty" and Hudson does.Epilogue: So what is Hudson Taylor's Spiritual Secret?
This is an outstanding book. It was written more than 80 years ago, and at times feels dated in style. For example, the numerous quotations from letters to and from Hudson Taylor tell much of the story in a manner of 150 years ago. Ultimately, I think it was good for me to have the patience to read through some of those sections, which may not have been exciting but were certainly worthwhile and very important. This is book that I would recommend to anyone who is actually wanting to follow Jesus as Lord.
When I read this book, I kept finding myself stopping and meditating on what I'd read.
It is written by his son and daughter-in-law...who better to write it than those who truly knew him best.
His faith in God's daily work in his life was staggering.
My understanding of Jesus' teaching on the vine and the branches in John 15 has been transformed as if a light came on.
It's the best teaching on it I've ever read!
This book could be used as a text book on life-changing faith.
There is so much to absorb from this book, I keep it continually near me to reread over and over again.
I had heard much about Hudson Taylor but hadn't read this book. "Hudson Taylor's Spiritual Secret" is no secret. Sincere devoted time to prayer and God's Word led to remarkable funding and the call of missionaries for the China Inland Mission. On a side note it was interesting for me to read how George Muller and D.L. Moody impacted Taylor and the C.I.M.There are several worthwhile quotes that are highlighted in my copy.
Hudson Taylor + China.A tad bit romanticized.Still very encouraging."Fruit-bearing involves cross-bearing. There are not two Christs-- an easy-going one for easy-going Christians, and a suffering, toiling one for exceptional believers. There is only one Christ. Are you willing to abide in Him, and thus to bear much fruit" (237)?
A great read for anyone interested in missions, missions history and one of the "heroes of the faith." This is an easy read from a true pioneer.
Jesus is here, and though unknown to the majority and uncared-for by many who might know Him, He is present and precious to His own."Sometime during that second year, Taylor decided to conform to the Chinese style of dress because he found his European look was a distraction to his hearers."Wearing Chinese dress in those days involved shaving the front part of the head and letting the hair grow long for the regulation queue [braid] No missionary or other foreigner conformed to such a custom...But it was access to the people he desired...he took the step which was to have so great an influence on the evangelization of inland China!"Hudson Taylor married 21-year-old Maria Dyer, with whom he had seven children.
This is the famous missionary biography of Hudson Taylor, the founder of China Inland Mission, written by his son and daughter-in-law.
In the 19th century, the only place Christian missionaries had been in China was along a thin sliver of its coast, leaving the vast majority of the Chinese population entirely unreached by the gospel.
Taylor, as a young zealous missionary, desired to see missionaries travel inland into places no missionaries had ever travelled before—he longed to see all of China (which at the time housed over half of the entire world’s population of non-Christians) won for Christ.
Inspiring & convicting
Hudson Taylor's Spiritual Secret is an awesome book.
It's a biography on Taylor's life and it brings such encouragement throughout.
It's by no means an extensive biography, but if you're new to Taylor this is a good starting point.
The book lays out his China mission, his prayer life and his spiritual 'secrets' (the 'secrets' are revealed in the last few chapters).
It encourages you to go out and spread the gospel, be fearless in prayer, be bold against Satan and to be in constant communion with God.I'd 100% recommend this book.
This masterpiece of faith holds a special place in my heart. God used this book to encourage me as me & my wife struggled with infertility. God taught me about true faith and totally depending on Him. I was reading this when God answered our prayer and gave us our baby girl. This one has been so special and helpful to me. This book should be read by every Christian. My favorite book I've read in the last 5 years.
chapter 14. enough said.
Just finished reading number 25! Read again next year!
"God's work done in God's way will never lack God's supply", Hudson Taylor's model for Fund Raising
Just...yes.
Inspiring book that had considerable influence in my early years of seeking God's will concerning missions.
I'm beginning to realize that if I'm going to pick up a nonfiction book, there will be a lot of telling.
I cleared up my confusion by looking on the Internet, so it's certainly not a secret) (view spoiler)[ Mr. Taylor's wife died in 1870, so when a "Mrs. Taylor" was mentioned in the 70's and 80's, I didn't understand what I had missed.
I wondered if I had missed some of the nuanced wording describing Mrs. Taylor's death, and she didn't die after all; no, she most definitely died.
The entire book is worth reading for Chapters 14 and 15 alone.
Not by striving after faith, but by resting on the Faithful One.” As I read, I saw it all!
“If we believe not, he abideth faithful.” I looked to Jesus and saw (and when I saw, oh, how joy flowed!) that He had said, “I will never leave thee.” “Ah, there is rest!” I thought.
For has not He promised to abide with me -never to leave me, never to fail me?” And, dearie, He never will.”“The sweetest part, if one may speak of one part being sweeter than another, is the rest which full identification with Christ brings.
"The sweetest part, if one may speak of one part being sweeter than another, is the rest which full identification with Christ brings.
It makes no matter where He places me, or how.
So, if God should place me in serious perplexity, must He not also give me much guidance; in positions of great difficulty, much grace; in circumstances of great pressure and trial, much strength?
No fear that His resources will prove unequal to the emergency!
And His resources are mine, for He is mine, and is with me, and dwells in me" (p.
There is only one Christ" (p.
"There is a needs-be for us to give ourselves for the life of the world.
There are not two Christs - an easy-going one for easy-going Christians, and a suffering, toiling one for exceptional believers.
Are you willing to abide in HIM, and thus to bear much fruit?"“I have just finished reading the Bible through, today, for the fortieth time in forty years.” And he not only read it, he lived it."One of the happiest periods of my life was that period of forced inactivity, when one could do nothing but rejoice in the Lord and “wait patiently” for Him, and see Him meeting all one’s need"
Hudson Taylor is a man of whom it could be said 'the testimony of Christ was confirmed in you'.
His life bears witness to the faithfulness of God and convicts the searching reader of the reality that is to be had of a relationship with Christ.
Hudson Taylor held nothing back but he denied himself and took up his cross and the Lord fulfilled his promises to him 'those that honour me, I will honour' and 'he that abides in me and I him, the same brings forth much fruit'.
a biography worth being read by every Christian wishing to know to reality of the Christ centered life.
Wonderful biography of how God worked through Hudson Taylor to bring the gospel to China. It often quotes passages from Taylor's journal and is very realistic about the endless challenges he faced both in the mission field and from within his home country and mission organization. The book is eye-opening about what it means to bear the cross, that following God's will does not equal easy walks in the park. Taylor struggled through resistance from fellow believers, endless duties, severe hardships and losses, but had peace from fellowship with God and was instrumental in greatly expanding the gospel in China.
Biography of Hudson Taylor that showed the fruit of prayer and total reliance on his Heavenly FatherThis work, by HT’s son, brought to light the means of the success of the subject’s ministry to China. Having read it, I now have a stronger desire to pray, believing God is sufficient for all my needs. Hudson Taylor’s life of reliance on God is still, over a hundred years later, a burning example of the Christian life. I recommend this book to all children of God, but especially to that child who seeks a fuller fellowship with Jesus Christ.
This book has made such a huge difference in my faith walk. Hudson Taylor was able to give up so much to stay on the mission field. During his day missionaries were underfunded or not funded at all. When he discovered the "secret" that would change his thinking about God and His presence with us, Dr. Taylor's life was turned upside down. Even though it is an older publication, I highly recommend this book for anyone entering Christian service whether as a missionary or pastor or other staff position.
