https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28006120-the-ship-of-the-dead
I love this series to pieces. And was that a hint at a possible continuation you threw in there, Rick? WAS IT
Post-read review:I'm satisfied. However, I guess this means that I have officially sold my soul to Uncle Rick.Full review to come.Pre-read review:Guys, I have high hopes for this novel. But to be honest, I have one and only one demand...#blitzstone
Crying. That has to be my favorite in the series. I'm in love and NEED. MORE.
“Sometimes you lie to deceive people. Sometimes you lie because you need the lie to become the truth.”  If I were ten years younger, this book would blow my mind for sure. In The Ship of the Dead, Magnus, Sam, Alex and his fellas must stop Ragnarok before Loki starts sailing the ship. The beginning sounded promising and I could feel there're a lot of mind-blowing packages that were to come, but I felt a bit let down after halfway through this book. It was not what I expected, tbh.Quests after q
If I were ten years younger, this book would blow my mind for sure.
The beginning sounded promising and I could feel there're a lot of mind-blowing packages that were to come, but I felt a bit let down after halfway through this book.
Although the ending is legit anti-climatic.
In addition, toward the last 20%, the story goes so fast I could feel it without any consideration.
What I liked in this book?
Yeah, I kinda liked Alex even though he/she didn't captivate me that much in the second book but in this one, he incredibly stands out.
“The world will end.
I don't think I could ever rate any of Rick's books lower than 5 stars.
Seeing Samirah fasting, doing her prayers, breaking her fast with dates, focusing on her emotions, it was simply amazing.My small son Maggie, my Mango, my Magnus, I’m so proud of him, this little shit nearly made me cry several times but I love him and of course he’s forgiven.
Magnus is best at healing people, making them feel whole again, important and loved.
Magnus who fell in love with the most amazing person ever, I’ve named Alex Fierro.Alex Fierro is a force of nature, that’s truly the best way you can describe her.
What does the “Farseer Trilogy” of Robin Hobb have in common with Rick Riordan’s “Magnus Chase” series or Marie Lu’s “The Young Elites”?
Well, actually not a lot except of the simple fact that I read all those three series in a year.
*lol*I don’t know about you, but I feel so damn proud of myself!
I mean I started three series (four if I finally finish “Ruin and Rising”) and also finished them this year!
*runs around hyper*Uncle Rick and the others made it very easy to read their series though!I’m sooo curious about this one!
*lol*This is going to be fun!!!
3.5 stars. Final review, first posted on Fantasy Literature:When  Naglfar  ― a ship made out of the fingernails and toenails of the dead, eek! ― sets sail, carrying hordes of giants and zombies warriors to fight the gods of Asgard, Ragnarok and a world-ending battle aren’t far behind. Ragnarok can’t be entirely avoided, unfortunately (it’s an inevitable prophecy), but perhaps it can be delayed for a while longer?As the third and final book in Rick Riordan‘s MAGNUS CHASE AND THE GODS OF ASGARD se
Ragnarok can’t be entirely avoided, unfortunately (it’s an inevitable prophecy), but perhaps it can be delayed for a while longer?As the third and final book in Rick Riordan‘s MAGNUS CHASE AND THE GODS OF ASGARD series begins, Loki has escaped from his imprisonment by the gods and is getting the dreaded ship Naglfar ready to sail against the gods, triggering Ragnarok.
last night I almost started crying from worry over what that stupidly vague ending meant so things are going great
This series took me a while to get into and to learn the particular gods of this world, but once I was into it I was so completely in love with the characters.Riordan manages to weave challenges into a story that don’t become tiresome and add to the characters overall journey.
We don’t even get to learn everything throughout this book, simply get glimpses of the other characters while Magnus Chase attempts to stop Ragnarok.We have such a diverse cast of characters particularly throughout this series that it is the perfect middle-grade novel.
Not enough that I stop reading them, mind, but enough to make me hope that Rick Riordan will actually manage to wrap them up sooner rather than later so that they can end on a high.What I love about these books is how obviously aware of his readers Rick Riordan is - and he tries to write characters that many people can relate to.
I like that.I think one of the reasons this book did not quite work for me is the fact how very dark the underlying mythology is: don't get me wrong, the Greek pantheon is filled with dark and twisted tales but also with goodness and hope, Norse mythology?
complete 5 Golden StarsI couldn't spot even a tiny flaw through reading; things kept happening in every pages!
& I never got bored during reading this at all!the 2nd favourite in this series!Magnus is Hilarious!
(& this is what I call a perfect book)-Plot: ★★★★★/5the story was absolutely amazing!
as I said, I didn't get bored at all!-Written Style: ★★★★★/5like always, well-written with funny hilarious language!-World Building: ★★★★★/5Idea: ★★★★★/5just one word, myth :) (it can be both description or reaction XD)-GOOD TIMES!THANK YOU UNCLE RICK!
4.5 starsHELL YEAH i loved it obviously
I have really, REALLY liked the Percy Jackson and the Heroes of Olympus books, but I LOOOVE Magnus.
I also love how Riordan, through Magnus, points out how completely crazy and occasionally gross Norse mythology is.
I just melted with love for poor Amir, who is doing his normal human best to not freak the frak out and be supportive of all this, and who brought Magnus a cooler of falafel sandwiches for their deadly quest.
If you haven't read any Rick Riordan, go ahead and start with The Sword of Summer, too.
just read these books, guys.
How many books have you read that figures characters with different religious beliefs (without any of them being judged for it, or only seen through it), characters with disabilities (and I mean important characters), characters that are gender fluid and characters with different sexualities, and more ?
A book that does not make those things the most important thing about these characters.
Concerning the story, like any Rick Riordan’s book it was funny, full of action, taught a lot about North mythology and was overall such an easy and light read.
I’m really sad that this series is finished because I think I could have read a lot more books about these characters.
Like all the books in this series, I really liked this. I think the best part of the series are the characters. I loved how his friends from the 19th floor had a bigger role in this book and had more character development. All of his friends are just so precious. I love them and want to protect each and every one of them. Overall, this was a fantastic installment in the Magnus Chase series.P.S. Alex is still my fav <3
Not to be dramatic but I owe this trilogy my life____ ✨Full series review here! The best way I can describe this series in one sentence is: a more diverse and woke version of Percy Jackson and if that doesn't want to make you read it then I don't know what will.
Degna conclusione di questa bellissima trilogia dedicata agli dei nordici! Mi mancheranno moltissimo questi personaggi, zio Rick è sempre una garanzia <3
We can finally see Percy xDBut we have to wait for another year:(
"Come chocolate primero, destruye el mundo después".Se acerca el Ragnarok, el fin del mundo vikingo, y Magnus y sus amigos deben intentar detener a Loki antes de que la batalla del fin de los tiempos acabe no sólo con ellos, sino con el planeta entero.
Es más, me atrevería a decir que Rick Riordan piensa seguir utilizando a Magnus, Samirah, Alex, Mallory y a los demás en futuros libros, pues el final, si bien cierra el arco de esta saga, deja muchos otros interrogantes que pueden ser pistas para otras sagas.
After reading | October 11th, 2017:  “Sometimes you lie to deceive people. Sometimes you lie because you need the lie to become the truth.”  I cried. I actually cried and I’m so embarrassed to admit that I cried because it honestly wasn’t even that sad. I’m just such an emotional trainwreck, and I don't know what is wrong with me.BUT GOSH DARN IT THE FLYTING SCENE? AND THE OTHALA RUNE SCENE?My heart was just hit with all of the feels and I couldn’t help myself.This trilogy has been just so heart
-----Before reading | July 18th, 2017:Me after finishing Sword of Summer: okay, I'm actually totally on board with Magnus not having a love interest.Me after finishing Hammer of Thor: ASDFGHJKL SHIP SHIP SHIPGIVE ME MORE ALEX FIERROMy hopes for Ship of the Dead:≫ BEATRICE (Rick has officially dubbed them this, pass it on)≫ Blitzstone to be confirmed (I mean, were you not feeling those vibes in Hammer of Thor?
Because it one hundred percent seems like they have feelings for each other)≫ more Loki (I hate him, but I love him)≫ Percy Jackson to be besties with all the einherjar (I hope him and Magnus will become best friends??
i can't believe because there's still no option for forever rick riordan trash when i'm filling out 
5 stars My heart is happyalthough there was one smol detail about islam and ramadhan that was wrong, but stillRTC
I'm sad to be done with Rick's Norse books.
Rick's writing is so clear and he has such a deep understanding of mythology to be able to play with the gods the way he does.
These are some of my favorite books as I love anything having to do with mythology.
I also enjoy that Magnus is a healer.
It's also amazing that Magnus is attracted to him/her and it's the person.
Rick also tackles homelessness in this book.
It is such a well done book.
Magnus has a capable team of adventurers.
I'm glad this was my final book for 2017.
Seeing that the names for the first two books are objects/weapons in Norse Mythology I wonder what would be the name for this one so I'm going to put some of them: ·Svalin: Shield that protected Sol in the chariot from the sun. ·Laevateinn: Loki’s magic sword. ·Hofund: Sword of the god Heimdall. ·Gungnir: Odin's magical spear. ·Hringhorni: Longship of the god Balder. Also there is some thing that I want to see. Well tbh all the fangirls want to see him:
Rick Riordan is always a great read, no matter the flaws in his stories. I am very grateful for Magnus Chase, a character I once upon a time called a cheap Percy Jackson knock-off, but who is actually a great character in his own right.I love these kids.
November.2016)MAGNUS IS MEETING PERCY!!!!Wait, there's no book cover..............
Magnus meeting Percy was kind of a disappointment and the ending was really 'meh'.
I waited for the last one with the hope that this would be even more awesome than the first two, but with the sure-fire belief that it would be amazing, even if it wasn't better than the previous ones, but matching up to them instead.
With this book, I didn't bother even checking if there was going to be a sequel.The final battle with Loki was long awaited and I had no doubt that the ending was going to be something I could have never dreamt of.
Instead, both the battle and the ending seemed kind of cliche and boring.
I just had to know what will happen next, where will our heroes end up and - more importantly - how will they extract themselves form the doom they are facing.Not only did I immensely enjoy this book - and series - but also did I learn a great deal about Norse mythology.
I think that's the best thing about any of Rick's works; you learn so much and you truly enjoy learning!What a great read to end the year of 2017 with!
As usual I found humor throughout the story. But I felt bored towards the end of the story.Because of that 4/5 are given.
"Well, duh."Percy studied Riptide, though I could've told him from experience it was almost impossible to tell a sword's gender by looking at it."I don't know," he said.
and a bunch of hairy blond guys calmly forming ranks and merging their shields into some cool geometric pattern like a polyhedron or a Power Ranger Megazord.” I absolutely love the idea of a big yellow ship "“Wow," said Samirah as we approached the dock.
