https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/162719.Just_Ella
A feminist retelling of Cinderella, that could have used a more likable Cinderella and a more plausible plot, but that proved itself to be an entertaining read. Happy to see a fairy tale character that does NOT want a prince.
However rumors spread that she used magic because it is easier to believe than the prince falling in love with a commoner.
People would rather believe in fairy godmothers...than think that you took charge of your own destiny."Once she starts living in the castle and is planning to marry the prince, she realizes this isn't the reality for her.
He was encouraged to marry her because she was the most beautiful girl in the land and he needed to be married before 21.My favorite part of this story was hearing about how Ella got to the ball without a fairy godmother.
I'll never get tired of rereading this book
When I read the synopsis, I thought this book sounded kind of like The Princess Diaries, which I love, so I was pretty excited to read Just Ella.
Sadly, it became pretty clear after the first few pages that this book wasn't what I was hoping it would be.This book had one of the most annoying main characters that I've ever read.
As the reader I picked up on things way quicker than Ella did and I had to wait pages for her to catch up.The other characters were so poorly written.
Reads like a twelve year old wrote it. Inconsistent, whiny, and altogether unlikeable main character.
Don't let the cover mislead you. This book is not set in modern times. What I liked so much about the book was that Ella had a lot more "umph" to her than the other Cinderellas I've encountered in other books.
First off, I was amazed on how fast I got through this book, mostly because of the easy flow of the dialogue and story.
I went to bed to read, open this up and did not go to sleep until I was done.The Cinderella character (Ella) is both strong and witty, with a desire and innocent to change her world as well as comprehend ideas she does not understand.
Reading between the lines, I think this book is a good commentary and almost satire on the rituals of court life and courtly love.
This book started out in the middle of the traditional Cinderella story.
At first I tried to like this book.
But it was so obvious with the character cliche.
I quote a review on amazon:"Even the "I am woman, hear me roar" attitude might have been tolerable if the other characters weren't so obvious!
Charming, being a handsome member of the upper-class, is an airhead.
Jed, being of the lower classes and having to work, is of course a wonderful person (And a social activist?
She builds up all these characters and then the ending just well..
ends with little wrap up.
A retelling of Cinderella story, without fairy Godmother and the magic pumpkin.
I like the author's imagination in putting this story with a more reality touch.In this story, Cinders Ella, mistaken by Cinderella, or Ella Brown (her real name) lives in the palace, engages to Prince Charming, and waiting for her wedding day.
Ella gets bored.
And the so-called Prince Charming, turns out to be un-charming after all.
I like this story.
Especially when Ella told her plan and strategy to go to the ball.
There's no fairy godmother after all, let alone the magic pumpkin and the scene where mice turned into horses.
3.5 (.5because of the ending!)
*sighs* You can't call a book feminist if the MC regularly shames fat women. Get your shit together.
I can't help comparing this book to Ella Enchanted.
Both are YA retellings of the Cinderella story.
While I prefer Gail Levine Carson's version, I have to appreciate Margaret Peterson Haddix's injection of reality into the traditional fairy tale.
No magic, no fairy godmothers, no magic pumpkins.
Rather, this is the story of Ella who got to the ball under her own perseverance, and then gets herself out of the palace the same way.
It was enjoyable and a good read for all ages.
However, I would have liked a more fleshing out of the plot and characters, something that most YA seems to suffer from.
In her version, Ella (sans "Cinder") finds her own way to the ball (there was no fairy godmother, despite the rumors) and wins the heart of the prince.
But now she is finding that life at the palace as Prince Charming's betrothed is not as great as she thought it was going to be.
Ella finally gets up the courage to announce to Charming that she doesn't want to go through with the wedding, but when she finds herself locked in the dungeon she realizes it's not that easy to walk away from a politically arranged marriage.
At the end of the fairy tale, at least the Grimm version, Cinderella gets married, and at the wedding a pair of birds pluck out the eyes of her stepsisters, leaving them blind.
And don't forget that one of the had already chopped off her toes, and the other had chopped off a heel.Here, the book takes up two weeks after the Prince has retrieved Ella.
So we aren't getting a "realistic" version of a fairy tale here.
I might have liked this book better if the connections to the Fairy Tale were either more disguised or attenuated.
The logical inconsistency in their minds to break, torture and terrify a future queen is really unsettling tonally, especially for a book marketed to eleven and up readers.Lastly, Haddix shoots her own heavily didactic moral in the foot about self-sufficiency when she escapes the kingdom to work in a refugee camp, not because she identified with the plight of the homeless, not because she discovered her own dream and finds contentment as a doctor, but because she believes working for the dream that defined Jed--the tutor turned love interest--was enough for her.
I love retellings of fairytales – especially when the author completely renovates the story, and the characters.
The story opens and Ella Brown is already a princess in the royal palace, engaged to be married to the most beautiful man she has ever seen, Prince Charming.
Frustrated, Ella resorts to finding joy in being with two people: Prince Charming, of course, and Jed, her lowly tutor.
The characters are vibrant, from daring Ella, to evil Madame Bisset, to handsome Charming, to kindly Jed. It is also well-written, with an easy-flowing style and quick wit.
Haddix novel I've ever read, and already I know she is one of the best writers in the world.
Not her writing, which isn't as impressive as some writers; not her characters, who are not diverse; not her plot, which is quite predictable; but the way she expressed her opinions about some world-issue through her stories.
I finished the novel in less than half a day; I could not read fast enough to reach the end.
Life can't be perfect, so give up trying to perfect it, but still do the best you can about it.
Most of the other characters were caricatures: the handsome but stupid prince, the beautiful but empty-headed courtiers, the good and earnest tutor, the manipulative and evil governess.
The last character, especially, is nasty for no good reason; if she really believes that Ella will someday be queen, why is she so thoroughly horrible to her?But the truly unbearable aspect of this book is the plot.
I get what Haddix is trying to do, but the fact is that as an inversion of the fairy tale--If you care about what you look like, you must be evil and stupid!--it's so heavy-handed and impossible that it loses any effect it wanted to have.
. .the only thing great in this book was the plot.
No author deserves an 'F'.Haddix's writing was the most boring I've read.
Even though this book was practically lifeless, I persisted in reading it so that I could have this review done (plus, I hate it when I don't finish a book).Ella was practically the only thing in Just Ella that was great.
Is it possible to hate the writing but love the characters and the plot?The Bottom Line: I didn't get why people liked this book so much.
For me, I was extremely disappointed with the book, aside from the characters and the plot.
Just Ella by Margret Haddix is a great book that takes place in the time of kings and queens.
It is like the cinderella story but, after the part where the prince asks her to marry him and shes says yes it has a little twist.
Ella thinks this is the dream life but when shes gets a taste of what the palace life really is like she changes her mind.
Or will she just die in the dungeon?
Read the book to find out.I would recomend this book to anyone how likes the time of kings and queens.
Royal reality is no fairy tale, just ask Ella Brown, aka Cinders-Ella.Just Ella is a smart, sobering, gritty, and entertaining retelling/continuation of a traditional fairy tale.
Now it wasn't the fairy tale we all thought, far from it, but I loved the story this author told.
I love the whole concept of writing what came after.Ella-we know the story of how she got to be in the palace but she was having a hard time conforming to the way the royals did things.
She wants him to get to know her and vise versa but he is only interested in how beautiful she is.Jed-her religion teacher(his father was her teacher until something in the story happens) she has deep conversations with Jed the kind she wishes she and the Prince would have.
He eventually finds her by having every single single girl in his kingdom try on the glass slipper his mystery girl lost the night of the ball, and then they live "happily ever after." That's the way the story ends, or so we thought.Unfortunately for our main girl Ella, she did not live happily ever after at all, and her Prince Charming was anything but.
No, she did not have a fairy godmother to help her get to the ball and woo the Prince, but the entire palace sure believes that story.
Which is all very good except that she is referred to as a woman instead of a fifteen year old as she truly is.I realize that the book is written meant for teens and of course it will be scissored to suit the market but what is up with the prince?
I would have much rather have Ella end up single and wiser than end up with Jed.The book perpetuates the standards of beauty that, as a society, we should be wary of.
And someone else pointed out that Ella's unwillingness to accept her beauty encourages girls who should really take compliments with a confident smile to think that all compliments are lies and not really meant.
Over the years, I've seen many princess/fairy tale stories with a twist in celluloid form: Ella Enchanted, The Princess Diaries and its sequel, The Princess Bride, and all three of the Cinderella Story films.
(Did you even know there was more than one?) This, however, is my first time reading one in quite a while.
(However, one character says something that's in agreement with an oft-quoted verse from the book of James.) Still, for what it was, it was good.
Ella is stuck.
As in stuck in the latest fashions.
In the palace.
Surrounded by royal advisers trying to teach her all the rules she will be strangled by for rest of her life, once she marries Prince Charming.At least there’s Mary, the young servant girl who tells Ella the truth.And Jedd, the passionate young man who’s been instructed to teach her about religion but would much prefer running a refugee camp for the victims of the Sualan War.So maybe the palace would be OK if Ella ever had a moment ALONE with her prince.Then again, maybe it wouldn’t.I liked the second half of this book best, once Ella figured out what was really what, and became herself.
Such a fun book, but it felt more like a beginning to a novel than a novel. Just when I thought the excitement was starting, the book ended. I would've appreciated it if it was longer, but there are sequels, after all, so I am DEFINITELY reading the rest of the trilogy! (Also, Margaret, thank you for creating Ella. She is awesome.)
You must never, ever hesitate to disturb a servant. That's what they're there for. They exist solely to serve us. Wise words eh? This is the twisted world of Ms. Haddix's Cinderella.The idea of Cinderella NOT ending up with the Prince sort of depressed me. But the story was pretty good and realistic.
I have always been a Margaret Peterson Haddix fan. She writes great children’s books, and this one is a particular favourite. As a kid, I read this over and over and over again, to the point that while I was listening to this audiobook to fall asleep, I was literally reciting the words out loud along with it.
Not the happily ever after we thought happened. Princess Ellas hopes and dreams about escaping her evil step family were not all its cracked up to be. The palace is a prison all in its own and once again she is a prisoner.
