https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/368916.84_Charing_Cross_Road
A proclaimed Anglophile who wrote to employees of the Marks and Company Book Shop in London over a twenty year period, Hanff published her letters in book form as a gift to future readers and letter writers.Helene Hanff is enamored by out of print, hard to find British literature.
What started as an enquiry becomes a twenty year correspondence with employees at the shop.The main pen pal Hanff wrote to was an employee named Frank Doel.
I laughed a lot harder this time, and even got a little choked up near the end.
His first letter to Helene begins "Dear Madam", to which she replies: "I hope 'madam' doesn't mean over there what it does here." Her humor and generosity did slowly erode his reserve, but it took years.
I remember when e-mail first started to take hold in the early 1990s.
His comments stayed in my mind while I happily made the switch from snail mail to electronic.
Re-reading this little treasury of collected letters made me think perhaps we've lost more than just an outdated form of contact.
The epistolary meanderings of Helene Hanff and Frank Dole are insightful, playful in their coyness, and progressive in their development.
Yet the prose in the letters aren't quite as dry as might be feared.
Like I said, the back and forth is progressive.
There is definitely life in these letters.
This real occurrence happens after the second world war(the last three words of which is a favorite book of mine).
The books that are being requested by Helene are not the point of this book.
I enjoyed this little book immensely, hence the rating.
It consists of the correspondence, from the late 1940s until the late 1960s, between New York writer and bibliophile Helene Hanff and Frank Doel, an employee at Marks & Co. Booksellers at the eponymous address in London.
Responding to an advertisement in a periodical, she wrote to Marks & Co., and began her two decades-long epistolary relationship with Doel.Her chatty, witty and often teasing letters requesting books and Frank’s more conservative, straightlaced missives form the backbone of the work.
And the graceful ending is stunning in its understatement.One more thought: Hanff and Doel’s comments about books and literature remind me of the Goodreads community I’ve found here.
Letters, literature, friendships, kindness and humor fill the pages of this small volume. It's a gift from Helene Hanff to anyone who loves books. Not much more I can say except that all book lovers should read it . Long distance friendships and books - a lot like Goodreads .
An easy 5 stars!I listened to this lovely short audiobook. It's completely charming. The voices are perfect. And in an odd way it reminded me of what I love about Goodreads. Strangers connecting over their mutual love of books. Slowly the book focused repartee morphs into a real sense of affinity and frienship.A bit of warmth to ease the dark cold days of November. A nice relief from the miserable state of world politics.I'm late to this party, but I highly recommend it -- especially the audio.
I love this book and love the film they made of it too.
It is the sort of book one could read in an hour or two over a pot of tea on a cold winter's afternoon and just enjoy.
Pure delight.If you needed to be reminded that love of literature is as good a foundation of love of the world as any other 'religion', that the people we write to can be closer and dearer to us than those we see day after day - then this really is a book written to remind you of just that.
The lost art of letter writing, but amazing how much we can tell of the relationship between the author in New York and a bookstore in London.
Starts out as a purely business relationship we can tell letter by letter as they become more friendly, discussing their families, friends, jobs and other events going on in the world at the time, particularly the rationing that was still in place in London after the war.Made me want to go out and buy a brand new gorgeous stationary set and write my friends some letters.
A beautiful, sincere and humorous correspondence between a writer in New York (Helen) looking for unique books all the time and having them shipped over from Europe and a bookstore manager in London over the years.... Fun, nostalgic read with a smile.
Lovely. Charming. A book lover’s book.
I just love books filled with mementos and letters.
I grew up sorting cards and old mail at my grandmother's house to the PostMan Books and now a grown up letter book.
Helene Hanff is an American writer desperate to fill her reading dreams with editions of books she has trouble finding in the US.
I ate up this book like a cat with a bowl of cream.
Letters and conversation about books- the beauty of them, the written words, the jokes- this is a book lover's dream.
I could've kept reading for many many more letters.Updated: just saw the movie and it was equally quaint, bookish, and nostalgic as the movie.
If you have clean secondhand copies of any of the books on the list, for no more than $5.00 each, will you consider this a purchase order and send them to me?Very truly yours,Helene Hanff(Miss) Helene Hanff”Over the next few years, she corresponds with the staid Frank Doel (rhymes with Noel, he says), and as he and the staff take such particular care with her orders, she thanks them by arranging assorted food parcels (eggs, tinned meat, and the like) to be sent from Denmark – things they can’t get or are rationed in post-war England.
I think it ought to be compulsory reading every three or so years, or it should be imbibed medicinally if one is feeling generally under the weather.As everyone knows - it's the correspondence between the warm and bouncy American scriptwriter Helen Hanff, and the stuffy head buyer of an antiquarian bookshop in London called Frank Doel.
For all her frivolous outpourings Ms Hanff is well read, and a steady stream of classics find their way across the Atlantic from London to New York.
The affection between Helen Hanff and the staff of the bookshop cannot fail to melt the heart of any reader.
There is a warmth and humanity here and a solid friendship based on books; something which should warm all our hearts.There is also, of course, the film starring Anne Bancroft and Anthony Hopkins.
My edition has a preface by Anne Bancroft (her husband, Mel Brooks, bought the film rights for her, so she could play Hanff) and an introduction by Juliet Stevenson.
What is most moving of course is that Hanff and Doel never met and the book came along after his death in the late 1960s and was an immediate hit.
An all too brief but enjoyable and witty collection of letters of correspondence between Helene Hanff from N.Y City and the various staff at Marks & Co. bookshop trading in antiquarian books in London. Lovely, endearing relationships form and you come to love the developing friendships that occur over the 20 year timespan. It's a shame that we have lost the art of letter writing, such a wonderful idea for a book and it's no wonder this became so popular when it was first published. A charming little book!
No creo que vaya a decir nada que no se haya dicho ya sobre esta pequeña joya, pero hay una cosa que me ha llamado la atención: la inocencia que hemos perdido. Es decir, la amistad que surge entre un grupo de gente, que vive a miles de kilómetros de distancia, por una carta. Creo que esta es la magia del libro.
I must look for No. 84 when I go to London next month.Also, whenever, I finish a book and think back on it, I find there’s always a comment or paragraph that springs to mind, that remains as fresh as when I first read it, and it’s in the letter dated December 9, 1949:“FPD!
It’s truly remarkable though to see the methodical way in which Marks & Co. employees searched for these books.Also there was such generosity of mind and spirit on the part of Helene in sending food parcels as she was quite poor during that period.
I saw the film version many years ago and always meant to read this very short epistolary and it did not disappoint.Noteworthy little tidbit about this author and the impact of this book.
The apartment where she lived in NYC has been named Charing Cross House in her honor (though the address referred to the London bookshop) and a bronze plaque commemorates her residence and authorship.
In London, another bronze plaque on the site of the original building commemorates the book shop at 84, Charing Cross Road.
84 Charing Cross Road chronicles a beautiful twenty-year relationship between an American reader of antiquarian books and Marks & Co. Booksellers, London.
All the gleaming leather and gold stamping and beautiful type belongs to the pine-panelled library of an English country home...” And on the ‘fellowship’ of second-hand books, Helene shares this precious thought: “I love inscriptions on fly leaves and notes in margins, I like the comradely sense of turning pages someone else turned, and reading passages someone long gone had called my attention to.” It surprises me a little that Helene seems to disdain fiction.
Every one who likes to read books, who likes to write about books, who likes to talks about books, who likes to buy 2nd hand books, who likes the lavish smell of books,who likes to sniff the pages before they buy books.MUST read this book.
If you have clean second-hand copies of any of the books on the list, for no more than $5.00 each, will you consider this a purchase order and send them to me?” Thus began the exceptional long-distance friendship between Hanff and Frank Doel, the chief agent of the bookstore who rigorously responded to her inquiries.
Also included were several letters from Hanff’s friend, Maxine, who had the chance to visit the bookstore at 84, Charing Cross Road: “It is the loveliest old shop straight out of Dickens, you would go absolutely out of your mind over it.” To be sure, Hanff did go out of her mind in her reply to Maxine, where she expressed her deep longing to see and smell the shop herself.
It consisted of letters primarily between Helene Hanff, the author, and Frank Doel, an employee of Marks and Company, Booksellers.
She was seeking to purchase these type books from London for a lesser price, “no more than five (5) dollars each.”Over the years, Ms. Hanff purchased many book and established a relationship with Doel, his wife, other employees of the bookshop, and even a neighbor of Doel’s.Authors often write memoirs the way they remember and sometimes how the wished things had happened.
I think that since the author here used letters there was less room for her to embellish her story.
I received this book in the mail (a surprise gift) -- so I read it 'on the spot'.
The book is only about 100 pages long --but a charming read (one I'm glad I read).This is an older book (first published in 1970)....The year I graduated High School.
The author Helene Hanff, a freelance writer was living in New York City.
She spent twenty years corresponding to a used book dealer in London.
***SLOW MAIL***!Though never meeting in person, they shared a common love for books.
This 'little' book is a collection of the letters between them.
--- This little 'gem' warmed my heart!
I was browsing through the books, stumbled across it, got curious to know what hides behind this address and read the first letter.
By the fourth letter I was completely drown into it.It's a story of an American lady who orders books from a used books bookstore in London at the address 84, Charing Cross Road.
Soon, one by one, most of them write replies, and Helena get to know more about them.
Though the letters are filed in the bookstore, they soon break the famous British reserve and what a treat it is to read them!
It's a completely different thing to know people, by letters.
While Hanff's early letters did not endear her to me at all, I realized the fault was probably my own by the time her first shipment of foodstuffs made its way to her ration-constricted pen-pals at Marks & Co. And that's about when I realized this book was going to tell me a little somethin'-somethin' about how actions have a way of speaking louder than words and that maybe I ought to ignore the little judgmental voice in my head that just loves to run its hypothetical mouth.
She is as happy with a book that falls open to a passage that attracted the attention of some unknown reader as she is overcome with the joy of cutting the untouched pages of fine India papers.But Hanff is not simply a bibliophile, she is a generous woman, who sends parcels of foods still subject to rationing in post World War Two London to the booksellers at Marks & Co. It is not only her love of the books she buys but her value of people whom she has never met that make this little classic the lasting charmer that it is.The unreserved Helene Hanff and the quite reserved Frank Doel form a very special friendship through their letters.
The letters started seeming monotonous, with Helen either happy or berating Mark and Co for the books they send/didn't send3.
Helene ordering books from London which had to be shipped to New York didn't make sense.
I understand writing like that to close friends, but writing in a breezy manner, that too a business letter for the first time didn;t sit well with me.5.
The urge to possess new books I loved reading about the slowly budding friendship between the slightly eccentric American seeker and the stiff upper lip sort of British providers of books.I liked all the workers.
In October 1949 Helene Hanff, a single woman living and working in her small New York apartment, responded to an ad placed in the Saturday Review of Literature by Marks & Co, a bookshop in London that specialized in used books.
I shared her outrage at books being torn apart to use as wrapping, and then agreed with Frank Doel’s explanation on the practicality of this practice.
As I read the letters, I could not help but picture Bancroft and Anthony Hopkins as Helene and Frank.
Hanff writes a letter to the establishment and receives a warm reply from Frank Doel, the main buyer for the store.
Thus begins a beautiful friendship.This is a gem of a book.
Helene Hanff finds, not only the books that she is seeking but also a true and trusted friendship with Doel and the staff at 84 Charing Cross Road.
Frank Doel himself is quite the character.
In a time when technology plays such a big role in our lives, it was actually quite refreshing that this entire exchange was done through hand written letters and "snail mail".
5 stars for exactly what this is: A tiny little masterpiece of letter writing, friendship, and books. This was a re-read for me, when I needed a break from a heavier read. 100 pages of sheer delight.
