https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/279692.Miss_Nelson_Is_Back
Just when the kids think they've finally gotten a day to themselves, The Swamp makes an appearance. Lessons learned: Miss Nelson is a pretty great teacher and The Swamp is always watching!
Unfortunately for them Miss Nelson saw them walking near her house and she decides to put fear into this children.The next day Miss Viola Swamp walks in and scares the living daylights out of the kids.
I felt like they wrote this classic in order for the authors to make extra cash on being a bestseller.For the most part I would say that pretend that this book never existed because the final book went back to the root of the story and provided the reasons why countless children and adults love Miss Nelson and Miss Viola Swamp.
LOVED these books growing up.
This story takes place very much the same way as the first book.
Miss Nelson is away because she getting her tonsils removed, and of course her class is not happy she is gone.
The principle ends up taking over the class for the week, and he makes their lives seemingly, very boring.
So they make a plan to trick the principle into thinking Miss Nelson is back when she is not.
And of course Viola Swamp makes another appearance later on…I wont say more then that.
You will have to just read the book!
Miss Nelson is Back is again another great read.
I love the Miss Nelson books...but this one just fell short for me. There was no amazing ending in this like there was in Miss Nelson is Missing when she reveals in her room that she was Viola Swamp. It just lost the "zing" for me. However, I do still love the stories that Harry Allard has come up with for Miss Nelson.
I loved these books when I was little. I think they are still relevant and funny.
Miss Nelson Is Back by Harry G.
Allard, illustrated by James Marshall is the sequel to the wildly popular Miss Nelson Is Missing.
When Miss Nelson is sick, the kids in Room 207 at first fear who their substitute will be, then become bored and once again "act up." The kids finally meet their match.The text by Allard is witty, funny and imaginative.
Another chapter is added to the legend of Viola Swamp.The illustrations by Harry Allard are hilarious.
This can also be read independently.For ages 4 to 7, read-aloud, teachers, school stories, behavior, humor, and fans of Miss Nelson, Viola Swamp, Harry Allard and James Mrshall.
Miss Nelson has a new class this year, but just as before, they have a knack for getting in trouble.
After they are informed Viola Swamp was the substitute teacher last time, and she was mean, they are still not derailed from their plan of misbehavior during the time Miss Nelson is going to be out.
This time, the children are the ones to play dress up, not like Viola Swamp, but Miss Nelson so they can convince the principal she is back and he can leave..this would have worked out..EXCEPT...Viola Swamp shows her ugly head, again!
This is the sequel to the book Miss Nelson is Missing! It's a new year and the kids in Miss Nelson's class don't know about Miss Viola Swamp. Miss Nelson has to take time off to have her tonsils out. The kids are bored with Mr. Blandsworth, the principal who is substituting for her. They trick him into thinking Miss Nelson has returned and he leaves the kids to their own devices. When Miss Nelson realizes what's happening, Miss Viola Swamp pays the naughty kids a visit! It's a silly book, but younger kids get a kick out of it.
Wow...
a great sequel to Miss Nelson in Missing!
In this book, Miss Nelson tells her class that she has to be out of school for a week for a tonsil operation.
The students fear they will get mean, old Viola Swamp as a teacher, but to their surprise they get the nicer Mr. Wardsworth and take advantage of them.
When Miss Nelson hears about their behavior, she has no other choice but as to dress up as Viola Swamp to be the "mean" teacher to the class.
This book will make students laugh, as well as appreciate their "nice" teachers and behavior!
While not as good as the other books in the series this still has some good laughs. Not only is Miss Nelson back but The Swamp is too. If you haven't read these just know that James Marshall is one of the finest illustrators and Allard has a groovy writing style that keeps his ridiculous plots down-to-Earth and entertaining adults and children alike.
This story tells of when Miss Nelson has to have her tonsils removed. Her mischievous class takes advantage of their substitute teacher, Mr. Blandsworth. It takes Miss Nelson's ultra-ego Viola Swamp to get those bratty kids back in line in this humorous tale of mistaken identity. James Marshall's illustrations add to the fun with the images of the students reaction to Viola's demands. Grade 3-5 would enjoy this story and teachers would love the point of view, comprehension, and writing opportunities that this story ignites. It a good read and laugh all together.
The kids in Miss Nelson's class are thrilled when she says she'll be away for a few days after getting her tonsils out. They think that the sub will be a push over, unfortunately for them, the sub isn't exactly who they were expecting! Another fun story of Ms. Nelson, Viola Swamp and the class, with some crazy plots that classes wish they could get away with and teachers wish they could pull! No content issues.
All of the Miss Nelson books are so funny, because they are exactly what kids would do in the situations James Marshall describes! I could just see my first graders sneaking off to the movies after impersonating their teacher! The wonder and fear around Viola Swamp is hilarious and it always reminds me of that one teacher that scared me enough to make me sit totally still and straight in my seat. Definitely a cute story for this series.
A cute book, fairly similar to the first in the series, Miss Nelson Is Missing!.
3.5 stars. Good story but when reading at the library, the kids wondered where the kids had the movie for the movies, ice cream, etc. Also, many of them did not like the artwork. But they all enjoyed the story!
No, they didn't until Miss Swamp showed up.
The kids weren't impressed with him so they decided to impersonate Miss Nelson to get him to leave.
The kids had the day of their life until they walked by Miss Nelson's house on their way back to school.
She decided to call and let the principal know but they knew they did wrong when Miss Swamp showed up.
Kids think that they can do anything in the world when their actual teacher leaves the room.
The principal was awfully gullible to believe Miss Nelson was back, who looked nothing like the real teacher.
Miss Nelson is Back written by Harry Allard and illustrated by James Marshall is a humerous story about a group of students that don't want to have a substitute.
When they find out their beloved teacher Miss Nelson has to have her tonsils removed, they are informed by the big kids that they will surely be stuck with Viola Swamp, the WORST and MEANEST substitute to exist.
There was no resolution to who Viola Swamp really was and there was no lesson learned by the student.
I could see students loving this story as a read aloud.
Miss Nelson, the teacher of class 207, has to leave her class in the hands of the principal for a week.
The students devise a plan and trick the principal into thinking Miss Nelson has come back early.
When their plan is discovered, Viola Swamp, the worst substitute, shows up and whips the students back into shape.
By the time, Miss Nelson gets back the students are so thankful to have a nice teacher.
If I know ahead of time that I am going to miss a day of school, I would love to read this book to my students and show them how not to behave.
Child me: 5 starsAdult me: 5 stars*For the first book in a "child/teen/middlegrade/nostalgic" book, I am going with the rating younger me would have gone with, then if I read on in the series, I will rate the books what adult me believes it should be rated.
Please note, I do not really think books should have an age limit.
People should read what they want to regardless of the intended age group, except for kids reading erotica or something, of course.*--I love, loved this book as a child.
I'm an adult now, but picture books still have a soft spot for me and I really love the artwork!
I really enjoyed reading this book, and I found myself wondering what was going to happen next. When the children realize their teacher is going to be out, they get a substitute. The sub bores them, so they impersonate their teacher to make him leave. When their teacher finds out about the impersonation, she gets the students back by pretending to be a scary substitute. This is a book for children's entertainment, but I think it could be used to model foreshadowing or inferences. The storyline is entertaining and even comical, and the illustrations are cute too.
Miss Nelson will be away from school for a few weeks due to an operation, and the kids in 207 have big plans, until a big kid warns them about Ms Swamp the meanest substitute in the world. Will Ms Swamp show up, or will the children be able to pull off their high jinks? It's disguise, and surprise for all involved.
I like the silliness of these books, but I don't like the implication. You have to be mean, nasty, and horrible (and ugly?) to get students to do what they need to. They'll only appreciate your niceness when they've seen how bad it can be. And they'll need constant reminders that it could be worse for them to appreciate you (if you're the nice teacher.) Also-- oh my heavens that principal!
This is also a book from my childhood. The sequel to "Miss Nelson is Back." Essentially the same plot-line, except this time the principle is the sub and he's boring, so the kids dress-up like Miss Nelson. Miss Nelson sees them and then comes to school as Viola Swamp.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
wonderful wonderful grade school book
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
