https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1106633.The_Spell_Sword
Damon abandons his men to their deaths (an act the book doesn’t know what to do with, and so largely ignores for the remainder) and makes his way through the raging snow to the home of his betrothed, who is Callista’s sister.
So - we have two men, one a visitor to this planet and one a native, each with a connection to the missing girl, each pushing through the storm, each a stranger to the other but edging inexorably towards a rendezvous at that house, and when they meet, we can be sure, each to be recruited to the rescue of this same damsel-in-distress.
She is imprisoned by unknown enemies and is being kept in a dark place where she cannot telepathically contact her family, but for some reason is able to find Andrew.Meanwhile, Damon has been summoned by his twenty-year-old cousin Ellemir because her twin sister Callista, Keeper in training at the Tower at Arilinn, was abducted from her bed while on a visit, and the women’s father is absent at the Comyn Council.
If she did so with this book, I haven't seen a copy.The Spell Sword isn't really enchanted, of course--there's just a matrix attached to enable the injured Dom Esteban to take over the reflexes of his less-gifted son-in-law-to-be.The Catmen of Darkover are almost never really introduced anywhere in the series.
But the Cat-Men have no real obvious motive for moving in on Alton lands, or other lands into the Hellers, UNLESS human incursions into territories they once considered exclusively theirs had become insufferable over time.
No other communication is even offered, though it's evidently possible for humans to communicate with the cat-folk.
Rediscovery even has a Keeper burn someone else to death that she was in laran contact with as part of the backlash of her defenses, but here the cat-people steal Callista from her bed with no problems whatsoever.
In the hands of someone like Ursula Le Guin, that might have actually been an issue The Spell Sword touched on, but as it is, how Callista seizes on Andrew as her savior and what she feels for him is just taken as given and good luck trying to explain it.So why did this get two stars if it's full of so much inconsistency and doesn't touch on the parts that I would have found most interesting?
While introducing us to Terran Andrew Carr who, while lost in the treacherous Hellers after a plane crash, finds himself being rescued by a woman he thinks is a ghost.
Moreover, we never truly learn just who the 'Great Cat' was or how they managed to get a hold of a powerful matrix that even the powerful Tower-trained technicians could not combat or just why they kidnapped Callista in the first place.
That was actually one of the series' shortcomings--that we never truly spent time with the Dry Towners, the Ghost Men, the chieri or the Cat-Men. Their cultures would've made for interesting juxtaposition with that of the rest of the Darkovans.
Sin embargo, La Espada Encantada aúna con éxito la ciencia-ficción y la fantasía en una novela que en realidad forma parte de una extensa saga.
En el mundo de Darkover, además, existe la magia, centro de la trama de La Espada Encantada -de hecho el título ya da pistas claras- y motor que hace mover la narración.Un hallazgo literario más que positivo y que, seguro, hará que lea más novelas de esta saga que os animo a descubrir.
mmmm It was a bit boring. Little action and mostly on the overworld. Callista, a quasi-keeper has been abducted and the only person who can contact her is a Terranian ;) A man of the Earth, despised by Darkovans, is the only one who can breach the darkness around her. I didn't remember this story at all. It was a bit short and sort of boring but it put some other brick on Darkover world.
Although I love Marion Zimmer Bradley and her Darkover novels, this was not one of my favorites. It is still a nice little story during the rediscovery phase, but the plot line is simpler and the characters less developed than later works.
Research read.
not a keeper. Minimal character developement, predictable plot.
Having tried to read earlier works in the Darkover mythos, I didn’t have great hopes for The Spell Sword.
So, with one of my player-characters claiming origin on Repse (“Esper” spelled backwards), my “Darkover,” I decided to revisit the classic book of psionic civilization (Okay, so I ripped off van Vogt’s Slan, MacLean’s Missing Man, and McCaffrey’s The Crystal Singer as well when I drafted “my” Repse.) in order to stimulate additional ideas for my ongoing role-playing campaign.
Yet, I was happy that I revisited MZB’s universe.Admittedly, The Spell Sword is rather late in the chronology (in terms of the fictional history, not publication chronology), but it has the advantage of not trying to explain every detail in MZB’s world-building and focusing on story.
At first, Andrew has a hard time believing that Callista is real, until the ghost-girl guides him to safety to Armida.
As told to by Leonie of Arilinn, if Damon were born a woman, he would be a Keeper of a Tower, because of his amazing ability of laran.Once finding Callista’s hidden starstone and with Damon’s trip into the overland, they find that she is being kept by the cat-men.
Therefore, he uses the Alton Gift to aid Damon to battle the cat-men, and uses Andrew’s telepathic abilities to find Callista in the confusing maze of the caves of Corresanti.Marion Zimmer Bradley’s fight scenes are a bit difficult to follow.
While they wait for the arrival of Ellemir and Callista's father, the powerful Dom Estevan Alton, the telepathic rapport brought on by their searching for Callista and their attempts to train Andrew's latent laran to the point where he can help them find Callista has led to a deep emotional contact between all three of them, but particularly Damon and Ellemir.
With Damon now able to lead Estevan's guardsmen, and Andrew's connection to guide them, Callista is rescued and the leader of the catpeople, who has been using a huge unmonitored matrix left over from pre-Compact days, is defeated and the menace ended.
are set in the 'hundred kingdoms' darkages-type period of Darkover history, 'The Spell Sword' is set in the recent 'now', and I like to think of it as setting up the story for 'The Shattered Chain' and 'Thendara House', where MZB explores the female characters of the Free Amazons.
(set earlier in the chronology, but written later), though, MZB is rethinking gender relations, and the character Romilly leaves her traditional family to explore other options.
The argument is, of course, that MZB's characters mirror her own life and thinking about relationships, sex, gender and identity.Most importantly, The Spell Sword is a short, sharp adventure.
The Spell Sword is no exception to this pattern.I did enjoy this book, partly because (as I implied) it is better written than most of what came before it.
Together, they do battle with the powerful, invisible foes who attacked Damon and who are besieging and terrorizing Darkovan towns, holding hostage the woman of Andrew's visions.These foes are certainly the weak point of the book: we know they are "cat people" and that they've discovered a matrix crystal that gives them great and dangerous power, including that of invisibility.
The Spell Sword is another readable, but somehow lacking, Darkover book.
Ruled by a psychic aristocracy, it is later rediscovered by a star-spanning high-tech human federation after centuries, giving the series a feel of both science fiction and fantasy.
I might not ordinarily recommend The Spell Sword as a starting point, as it's not one of the best books in the series, but it is a direct prequel to one of the absolute best Darkover books, The Forbidden Tower, which received a Hugo nomination for best novel.
The cat people on Darkover have created a darkened land and kidnapped the Keeper Callista.
It is a struggle but the ghostly projection of Callista helps Andrew survive and find shelter, and finally make it to her kin.Ellemir sends an urgent message to Damon and to her father saying there is trouble.
Damon's party is ambushed on their way and only he survives the trip.
While Damon and Ellemir are contemplating how to rescue Callista, Andrew shows up, and later so does Dom Esteban and his wounded band of guardsmen.
The point of view was from the perspective of Damon or Andrew the cat people remained mysterious.
Spell Sword is the 8th book Marion Zimmer Bradley wrote in the Darkover series, but it takes place earlier than most of the other books she'd written to that point.
Only Darkover Landfall takes place at an earlier time.
Unlike most of the previous novels, which dealt with the cultural and political clash between Darkover and the Terran Empire, this one stays at a personal level.
This is the first Darkover book I ever read, and it's actually a good one to get you started on the series.
It has a simple plot with interesting characters, a good explanation of the Darkovan telepath society, and no larger, political themes.
Book D5.
This book is almost pure feudal fantasy.
It has many half page long paragraphs of descriptions and dialogs (which sort of read as lectures).
I speed read it pretty much from start to finish and could only stand about 1 chapter at a time.
Never the less, I did grade it B.==============================Notes on Spell Sword.
These notes were taken during reading long before the internet existed.
Andrew falls in love with Callista and makes Darkover his home.---- charactersAndrew Carr (Terran)Callista Alton - keeperDamon Ridenow - tower trained, "kicked" outEllimer Alton (ages 30-40)The next book would be Forbidden Tower.
A nice little adventure story in the old Earthman meets alien culture mode - except that Andrew learns to fit in quite a bit faster than most Terrans, and Damon quickly takes over principal interest (Bradley seems to like these two-hero novels).
The rest of the time she is a presence in telepathic contact with Andrew, who is, for some reason, the only one she can contact.
Damon consents to be "possessed" by Lord Esteban, who was a skilled swordsman, but is now paralysed.
Damon's struggle is with his own self-image as a coward - and when he is finally left unaided against his enemy the Great Cat, he proves himself.
I read this Darkover novel after 'The Shattered Chain', only because it came in a boxed set that way.
I could wish for a little more to this novel; this was my first real introduction to the cat-hags, and like the rest of Darkover, I'm still in the dark.
I realize that in real life we don't always get the answer to our questions in one pat novel, but why have so little learning about these people, since they are so central to the story?Anyway,I always iike MZB; there is always an engaging story to be told, and this is another on.

Como segunda entrega de la serie Darkover, deja bastante que desear comparada con otros libros de la saga. Aquí nos encontramos con una historia simple, plana, una aventura épica sin ninguna pretensión y con un final absolutamente predecible. Por su parte, los personajes son igual de simples y planos. Si a todo esto le sumamos que muchas situaciones y acontecimientos se repiten y se repiten, dando la sensación de que la autora no sabía cómo engrosar un poco más el libro, finalmente nos encontramos con un producto literario bastante aburrido.
Prodromo a “La Torre proibita”Fu il primo libro del ciclo di Darkover che lessi e ne restai subito rapito. E dire che NON è uno dei libri migliori del ciclo! Ma la tenuta di Armida, i cenni alle Torri, le abbondanti nevicate, la cultura darkovana vista attraverso gli occhi di un terrestre... tutto mi affascinò fin da subito. I primi capitoli sono avvincenti, mentre gli ultimi lasciano un po’ a desiderare, ma lo stile felice di MZB non si smentisce mai e assicura comunque il piacere della lettura.
In this novel Bradley begins to come into her own as a writer. While there are still chunks of clunky prose (she was still writing quickie short novels for cash at this point) the complexity of her ideas suddenly comes to the forefront of the novel's plot: the interconnectedness of sexuality, telephathy, intimacy, culture shock and assimilation. This is the real beginning of the Darkover series as a truly memorable, awesome and important work of speculative fiction.
If you're going to read the Darkover novels, this is the one to read as soon as you've finished the Saga of the Renunciates (The Shattered Chain & Thendara House; City of Sorcery is NOT mandatory to the Darkover timeline).Or you can read it before those two, but all the other "modern" books need to be read after this one.Andrew & Damon, Callista & Ellemir. They're the start of everything that comes after.
The second book I read from the 'Darkover' series. I liked it a lot and, just like in 'The Bloody Sun', I loved the fact that the main character was an outsider to this medieval magical world. It's a short, enjoyable read. I couldn't put it down! And, as the rest of the Darkover books, it left me wanting to know more when I finished it. The only way to learn the repercussions of what happened is to read the rest of the stories, I guess, and I'll gladly do so.
This is more of a novelette than a full-length book, and as such it is missing a lot of the detail and richness that is usually a part of MZB's Darkover novels. However, it is an excellent book to 'cut your teeth' on and to introduce you to the world that she has written so much about. It gives a good feel for the setting, the culture, and a touch of the history. Not to mention that it is great when you need a quick, short read that will engage your attention and imagination.
I have read various of the Darkover series over the course of a couple of years. They are interesting reading when you just want a fun read. This one focuses on the psychic powers that the people of the planet Darkover have developed, the taboos that go along with developing the "gift" and in some cases the need to break those taboos.
I liked this book, but I found it too short for my taste. It was the first I read by Marion Zimmer Bradley, and it caught me kind of off guard, I didnt quite manage to feel situated in the bigger story and that frustrated me a bit.Nevertheless, the Darkover series of books is very recommendble. I enjoyed the ones I read.
