https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/153577.Highland_Fling
Another Nancy Mitford that I adored.
I think alternating between her and Barbara Pym should be used to treat depression because both will have you laughing numerous times.
'Highland Fling' follows four people, Alfred, Jane, Sally and Walter (who have just recently got married) who are invited to spend time in a grand castle in Scotland by Sally's kindly relatives.
Oh, and a love affair blossoms that has the potential to make or break the holiday.
Nancy Mitford is someone whom I would've loved to have known, I find myself so in sync with her humour that it makes me sad how little she wrote.
For example, you can't fault Mitford for writing what she knew about; that is, the lifestyle of the English upper class and the goings on of Bright Young Things in the 1920s.
In any event, I plan to read more of her work and, at some point, a Mitford biography.
As one of the young men says:It is one thing to see a Gilbert and Sullivan, and quite another to be seen at one.
The scene made me chuckle, but as I've generally enjoyed the G&S I've seen, I clearly would have been a failure as a 1920s Bright Young Thing.
What’s not to like?I finished this some time ago, then got hung up speed-reading for School Library Journal’s Battle of the Books, for which I was a judge, and though I wrote copious freeform reviews for all of them, I deemed it politic not to post ANY since the ones I didn’t like would end up conspicuous by their absence.
If you want a splendid objective yet hilarious description of the opening day of the shooting season, check out Chapter 7 of Highland Fling.“I have never been to Scotland… I am told that no cultured people ever go there now, so much is it démodé.” - Albert, before the fun begins
Highland Fling was Nancy Mitford's first novel. It was published in 1931. I have recently bought all of Nancy Mitford's novels, and intend to read all eight. It was interesting and informative for me, as someone who is working through each of Nancy Mitford's novels chronologically, to note that Jane Smiley, here in The Los Angeles Review of Books differentiates between Nancy Mitford's four pre-war novels, and her four post-war novels  But there is no real sense, in the pre-war works, of the gran
Highland Fling was Nancy Mitford's first novel.
The whole article is well worth a read, and it has whet my appetite for all of Nancy Mitford's work.
Highland Fling, which provided the odd chuckle, suggests that Nancy Mitford might also have this talent.
Nancy Mitford's nuanced descriptions of the personalities that populate Highland Fling highlight the acute intergenerational conflicts between the Bright Young Things and "the grown ups", many of whom are traditional, austere, stereotypically aristocratic Victorian characters.
Highland Fling is a bit uneven, but I enjoyed it, and I look forward to reading more of her work.
Plutôt un 3,5.Une jolie découverte de Nancy Mitford, qui est de bon augure pour la suite. J'ai aimé la malice teintée de tendresse qui se dégage de son roman.
Laugh out loud funny!
This witty, lighthearted frolic of a novel deftly (if gently) lampoons the British aristocracy of its day – both the stodgy, persnickety old guard and the vapid Bright Young Things. The aesthete protagonist, Albert, is particularly hilarious. It's rather like Wodehouse with a bit more bite and substance. Really, quite a treat.
The setting for this novel was at a castle in Scotland.
They asked two young friends of theirs if they would please act as hosts at the hunt; it was too late to call off.
This was an opportunity to escape their creditors and to save money by living at the castle for a couple of months rent free.
They asked along their friend Jane Dacre, who was at loose ends anyway, and also had an interest in one of the other guests who would be attending – Albert, a surrealist painter whom she had had her eye on.
Her first novel, not her best, but still a must for any Nancy Mitford fan (and let's face it, if you are not a Nancy Mitford fan, you are missing out).
Certainly beats the heck out of a lot of other first novels I've read, and I think she was already really good, right out of the gate.
I bought this in the B&N store in Santa Monica -- that is a really good store, I was really impressed with what I found poking around in there.
I almost bought that one, too, but if I read that one, there's no more.
I'm am profoundly happy that this was not the first novel I'd read by Mitford. Had it been I doubt I would have read any others. He writing and observations are, at best, superficial. Her characters are one dimensional and unbelievably absurd. There are traces of the wit and brilliant commentary that I've come to expect from reading her other works, but those aspects are painfully underdeveloped in Highland Fling.
Nancy Mitford a le chic de croquer les relations dans l'aristocratie britannique de l'entre-deux guerres d'une façon terriblement ironique et caustique. C'est assez plaisant, de la voir décrire cet univers d'oisiveté choquant, où l'argent est dilapidé puisque "c'est plus économique" de faire ainsi. J'ai beaucoup aimé les passages où Albert s'exprime par rapport à la guerre et sur le projet des Etats-Unis d'Europe, on y retrouve les opinions de l'autrice et cela ancre encore plus le récit dans le réel... tout en lui conférant une extrême modernité.
It takes place mostly in a Scottish Castle during a “shooting party.” The elders, most of whom are Peers in the House of Lords (or Generals of WWI), come off as dinosaurs in thought and deed, while the younger come off as asinine “aesthetes” who feel they own the world of art and good taste.
The two sets amaze one another, but they remain almost outwardly civil, as one does to prove one’s place in the upper class.There is a hilarious spoof on Scottish clan history, with attendant legends and warring clans.
It’s a quick and enjoyable read for anyone who likes this kind of satire – which takes place between World Wars.
Very much of its time and place.
Nothing dates faster than contemporary satire.
Mitford intended to send up her own set and her parents', and from what we read she acheived that purpose.
However, the time was 1931, so the majority of those references will fall rather flat unless the modern reader is steeped in fiction and biography of the period.
I am, to a certain degree, but at this distance her intended waspish satire is gentled down to a few chuckles here and there.A fast, light read for evening time.
Mitford would be very annoyed by my shelving this as "Mostly Harmless"--so I think I will.
Definitely not one of Mitford's best. This one lacks the really remarkable humor that I've come to expect from Nancy Mitford books. Also, the characters were curiously dull -- a far cry from the endearingly perverse Radletts and Dougdales -- and I was disappointed to find myself simply not caring about them at all. Not an unpleasant read with which to while away a few summer hours, but overall unsatisfying.
Nancy Mitford's books are always funny, but they also have an interesting dark side. There's a lot of hidden content in this seemingly inconsequential book about "Bright Young Things" on a summer vacation in Scotland between the wars. Is creativity a condition of youth? Do you lose it with your innocence? Mitford keeps the plot humming in its absurd way. The best bit follows the main character as she experiences the misery and discomfort of a traditional English hunt.
Clever and amusing.I think Christmas Pudding was better, but this book is still an enjoyable read. It had a fun perspective on the Bright Young Things (which made for some hilarious moments!)It's a good book, but not one of her best. I recommend that you read one of Nancy Mitford's other books before this one.
‘Highland Fling’ is set in a Scottish castle, a closed-room setting, loved by crime writers, which Mitford uses mercilessly to compare and contrast.
Mitford mines the humour by placing both groups in close proximity and letting them clash, on a shoot, and a visit to the local highland games.As a first novel this gave me a taster of Mitford’s acerbic wit and observation of social manners, acute in its sharpness of both old and young, wealthy and not, though crude in some instances.Read more of my book reviews at http://www.sandradanby.com/book-revie...
My favorite part of this book is a poem about the history of the tower that is part of Dulloch Castle called "The Lament of Lady Muscatel." Of course, the poetic history of Scotland is in the hands of Robbie Burns.
Back in 2005 I had this kind of weird experience where I felt I was being stalked by Robbie Burns, and in the end it kind of relates back to Eddie Izzard.During the spring on 2005 I was travelling on the east coast, New York to Halifax.
Uma satira a classe alta inglesa de entre as grandes guerras.
O fosso e incompreensão entre gerações é retratado neste livro com humor e ironia.
A autora escreve acerca do mundo que ela conheceu e no qual ela viveu com a lingua afiada.
Apesar da ligeireza e da irritação que algumas personagens me provocaram, dei boas gargalhadas em algumas situações, gostei do humor e da lingua afiada retratado neste livro.
pequenas ironias.
Uma leitura engraçada e ligeira de situações e pessoas caricatas.
It is a short, light period piece which captures high society glamour of the decades previous to WWII.The central characters are four "Bright Young Things" and the story is told from their point of view.
Basically, the story is about the clash of this quartet with the older generation of Establishment figures of Lords, Ladies and Generals.Mitford's captures the boredom of country house parties dedicated to shooting game, rounds of pointless cocktails and inane conversation while ridiculing received ideas about social class, money and good taste.The plot is weak indeed; however, the characters are well portrayed.
(I think it's only in print within The Complete Novels in the UK.) It's exactly what you would expect from a Nancy Mitford shooting party - the foibles of the upper classes are mercilessly skewered, there's romance and hijinks, and then suddenly about two thirds of the way in, almost as an afterthought, there's a wonderful passage about soldiers returning from WWI being so shattered by their experiences they were unable to pick up their former lives.
Jolly good for a first novel!
(I never say jolly good, but my inner voice goes a bit posh when I read something like this!)
The upper classes then (and maybe now) were simply ghaaaastly, and Nancy Mitford manages to show this in a mildly amusing way. She should know being a member of one of the more infamous upper class families. This story was a bit second class Wodehouse, but it won’t put me off reading more of her oeuvre.
Very light, humorous, somewhat satirical reading that would be of interest to fans of "Downton Abbey." What I found interesting, as a fan of Evelyn Waugh, is the similarity in style to the earlier Waugh novels, like "Vile Bodies" and "Handful of Dust," as well as the depictions of the "Bright Young Things" and stock British upper class characters. Dated, but interesting for Anglophiles.
3,5/5Premier roman de Nancy Mitford, son intérêt réside dans l’étude de l’environnement plus que familier des contemporains de Nancy, le tout avec le recul et la pointe d’humour nécessaires. Je ne doute pas de la qualité de la plume de l’auteure mais je n’ai pas été emballée par cette lecture, malheureusement même si j’ai passé un bon moment.
I lurved this book. I can't tell you why. There was just something fun and silly about it, and yet absolutely relatable in our time. I know these people in modern times. I might be one of them.
It was fine.
Refreshingly funny. Pretty good for a first novel by a young author. Today we can read this as an interesting period piece. My only criticism is that there is not much of a plot in this book.
Just didn't get into it, I gave it 70 pages.
Were the upper classes in England during the 1920s all this vapid and stupid?
Highland FlingBy Nancy MitfordBest-known for her comic novels Love in a Cold Climate and The Pursuit of Love, set in the upper-crust of England in the 1940s, Nancy Mitford also wrote six other novels, less commonly available, that have now been re-issued by Vintage Books.
Based on an unrequited love in Scotland of Mitford’s own, Highland Fling introduces us to the young couple Walter and Sally Monteath, whose lack of money seems no impediment to their lifestyle:
Choosing nearly at random, here Mitford describes the hunt as Jane experiences it:
