https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/156884.Mike_s_Mystery
Henry makes a joke about Mr. Carter always showing up at times of trouble and he smiles with a ‘twinkle in his eye’ and ominously agrees.Chills.The group of happy, homeless people head off to have breakfast at the Uranium Mine Diner, where Mike overhears a man telling his compatriots how the ‘little boy that lives in the house set the fire, just for fun.’ Everyone gets up in arms about that, defending Mike’s honor, and we learn a valuable clue: the man who started this rumor was wearing a blue hat.The children go with Mr. Carter up to see the mine, and supposedly inform everyone to be on the lookout for a man wearing a blue hat, because that’s pretty concrete evidence.
Mike didn't do it
I am collecting the first original 19 books of this series.Mike's Mystery could probably be said to have the first full blown mystery for the children to solve.
This one is a direct sequel to book #4, Mystery Ranch, and will be enjoyed much better having read them in order.
The series is shaping up at this point into an ongoing adhesive collection, rather than just individual stories.This story is typical fare for the series, much better than the last book and fun to see a proper mystery unravelling for the children this time.
Seemingly more mysterious than the previous books. The first Boxcar Children book really trying to be a mystery. But it is about the children and their resourcefulness and independence more than about solving the mystery, like all the books in the series.
lol so cheesy but so wonderful.
This one is one of the OG set written by the actual author, before the ghostwriters took over and a time machine send the kids to a Benjamin Button situation so that poor college age Henry regresses back to high school...
In the uranium mining town that has sprung up overnight and that the kids basically own, because they own the ranch.
I OPENED THIS BOOK FOR TWENTY MINUTES OF NOSTALGIA READING, I DIDN'T EXPECT TO BE HIT IN THE FACE WITH HORRIFIC ECONOMIC REALITYI like to think that the remaining miners who haven't died of uranium exposure band together forty years later and file a class-action lawsuit against the remaining Aldens.
When Mike's house suspiciously burns down, the children invite Mike and his family to live at their ranch.
Mike's mom loves to bake pies so the children decide to buy her a stove and all the supplies needed to bake so that she can open a bakery and make money.
Mike and Ben figure out that fire that burned Mike's house was probably an arson and suspect a man in a blue hat.
Mike recognizes the man in the blue hat as he is sneaking around the ranch and so does Mike's dog.
This is the 5th installment in The Boxcar Children series and the story of the Alden children continues. In this book there truly is a unique mystery that they have to solve, but do the Alden children solve this or does someone else? That is for you to find out. This series is very simplistic and easy to follow so for a young person that is starting out on their reading expedition it is definitely one to keep in your wheelhouse.
This is a cute and fast read, especially with all the children dialogue. However, it is far from reality, especially in this day and age. The children are given the forefront over the adults in solving the mystery. Which is good for a children's fictional book.
Reading Boxcar Children mysteries as an adult and still loving it! :D
We listened to this on Audible on a long car ride with my young children. They were mesmerized! Hicieron muy bien la traducción y todo estuve excelente según mis niños.
Boxcar Children are visiting Aunt Jane when there friend Mike house is burn. But Mike is blamed for starting the fire.
Good for young readers.
This was my least favorite so far, as I’ve been reading them out loud to my kids. My oldest still loves reading The Boxcar Children series, so I’m sure this will not be the last for us!
It was great!
The Alden children encounter a true mystery in this book. There are references to the previous books so it helps to have read them.
it was awesome
one of the better ones in the series. the kids help a friend out and there are multiple references to things that happened in the first 4 books. love the dog love in this story. still lots of unbelievable stuff like having a family live in a kitchen in a mine office building, etc.
The children working together need to prove Mike's innocence by finding the real person who burned down the house.
At the end they find out that the person who burned the house is a criminal who was let out of jail.
Also there are no colors in the book and the pictures are just black and white.
I would recommend this book because it is an overall good book and it shows the friendship that the children had and how much they searched in order to help their friend Mike.
It seemed kind of odd, though, that the bad guy's motivation boiled down to revenge for not having been able to pull off a scam in the past.
It was also kind of over the top the way Mike's Mother's Place just came together so quickly, and it was a bit too reminiscent of the overnight success of Benny's Buns in Snowbound Mystery.
I thought of giving this book 3 1/2 stars, but I finally went with 4 stars because I actually just really enjoyed reading it, I think because of Mike.
This book is about Henry, Jessie, Violet, and Benny who go to visit their Aunt Jane’s house over the summer.
The house by Aunt Jane’s burns down, leaving a few clues for the Boxcar Children to solve.
Some of the language might be a bit old-fashioned for young readers, but the author had created these books as early reader chapter books in the 60’s.
As an adult, the text seems very simplistic…but it is perfect for early readers who are ready to start chapter books.
The series will make young readers want to live in a boxcar and solve mysteries.
The first Boxcar Children book was about a small family of children living in an abandoned boxcar, and had charm even if it was full or archaic and wooden prose.
All of this is done with a prose style slightly less wooden than Fun With Dick and Jane.
I make allowances for chapter books since they are for the youngest of independent readers, but this is dull on those merits.The art is bad, too.
Chapter books do NOT need to have great art, but they do need to have it with personality.It's best just to pick up the first book in the series.
Another wholesome book in the boxcar children series, in which everyone is polite and kind and thinks that hard work and washing dishes are fun.
They run into one of their old friend Mike from back east who is living in the new town so his brother can work at the mine.
The book is actually about the town coming together to help Mike's family after their house burns down.
It was arson but the boxcar children leave justice to the adults and instead are more worried about buying Mike's mom new dishes.
Has anyone heard of the boxcar children before?The story takes place at the children's aunts mystery
My love of reading started when i was young, and it gives me immense pleasure to provide books to Spread the Word Nevada, an organization that passes them on to children in the community.
Sometimes I'll find a book I remember reading when I was young and will read it again before passing it on.I don't rate these books using my normal scale, instead I give most of them three stars.
This isn't a Criticism of the book, simply my way of rating them as good for children.
Probably releasing it in powdered form accidentally because god knows no one in this weird ass town would know a safety procedure if it slapped them on the ass.
They're fucking lucky the whole town didn't go up in flames.Mike, being an idiot, is somehow excited by the idea that his house and all his possessions are gone, never once thinking about the strain it will put on his poverty-stricken single mother.
His mother who probably dreams about dumping him down one of the mine shafts and leaving the state to go open a pie shop.Alas, Mike's mother, he is alive and well and still quite irritating.
The Boxcar Children, Mike’s Mystery, written by Gertrude Chandler Warner, take us on another adventure with Henry, Jessie, Violet and Benny.
In this book the children run into an old friend, Mike.
Mike has been blamed for starting a fire and need the kids help.
Read along as Henry, Jessie, Violet, and Benny help to clear their old friend’s name.
This series of books is filled with action and adventure designed to help enhance the reading of any child.
Each book has a wonderful way of keeping the children engaged and interested in the story.
Great books for any child ages 9 to 12.
First off, I read these Boxcar Children books when I was a lot younger. There were some that I would read over and over and others that I read once and chucked to the back of my bookcase. Overall, though, I loved them all. Mike's Mystery bugged me, though, since Mike bugged me. He was like Benny, only more annoying (and Benny was already pretty darn annoying). Thus, the 2 star rating. (The character broke the book for me).
Yes, I realize that this is a book for children, but seriously...... a guy burns down a house while a woman and her two children are in their beds in an act of attempted murder and The Boxcar Children think, "Golly gee! What a fun mystery this is!". In what kind of bizarro world are people so flippant about a man trying to blow up a mining community? It's all just too casual. Also, Mike is just the worst.
I like when Mike finds out they have a mystery. They find out a man in a blue hat is trying to burn the mine. In one part Watch and Spotty do a race. In the middle of the race Spotty digs up a blue hat and Watch digs up a can. Then one day they find out that the man is hiding in the dark and Spotty caught him.
