https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77626.Too_Many_Clients
Somebody shows up at Wolfe's identifying himself as Mr. Yaegar of Consolidated Plastics, and he wants Archie to follow him the next day and find out if he has a tail.
The next day, Mr. Yaegar ends up dead, and--guess what?--it turns out that the guy who hired Archie is NOT Mr. Yaegar.
Archie begins to investigate, and discovers that Yaegar, who was quite a ladies' man, rented an apartment decorated and equipped as--in Wolfe's words--a "bower of carnality." Archie lurks in the "bower" to see who shows up, and soon the suspects--and the prospective clients--begin to accumulate.This is a very good Wolfe adventure, satisfying to anyone who enjoys the series.
Nero Wolfe finances in the beginning of the novel:To make it worse, this guy is about to come:So Archie Goodwin tried to find a client:The result of his search?
He found this many:The investigation led Archie to a millionaire's love nest: Sorry, I try to keep my review rated PG.
In the words of Archie himself, "When I go dig for the client, I really do my job well".
So in conclusion this book is on the level of practically all stories of the series which means highly entertaining with usual great character interaction and good mystery with surprising culprit.
Too much going on around here (neighborhood, not house) for me to be reading a book that needs careful attention to details!
So this book hit the spot.
Five days to read???
So much for making a last run on my yearly reading challenge of 125.
Setting my goal to one for next year!")This book would have been so much better had I read it like I normally read.
I like him more every book.
With that said, it's getting a fourth star because while I was preoccupied the entire time I read the book, it was still a good book.
I love Rex Stout’s Nero Wolfe books, mostly because Archie Goodwin is super-awesome as a narrator. I am 100% sure that I would never be able to put up with an orchid-loving, extreme foodie boss with an aversion to making money as well as he does!
A man comes to Archie asking to be checked out if he's being followed, gives him the starting and ending addresses and a start time. Only he never shows up. Turns out he gave a false name and the real person with that name was found dead near the ending address hours before the imposter contacted Archie. The initial client is the head of the corporation where the victim worked who wants to quelch any scandal. And other potential clients follow. It takes a while to discover who the imposter was.
First of all the description of this edition is not correct.
The book is copyrighted 1960 and states "First published in 1960 by the Viking Press Inc." Second the page count is incorrect as the book has 183 pages not 184.Nero Wolfe — The private investigatorArchie Goodwin — Wolfe's assistant, and the narrator of all Wolfe storiesThis book is different from any other Nero Wolf books I have ever read.
This would not be my choice for starting this series as the context would not be there.
It would be best to start with Fer-de-Lance published in 1934.
I love Nero Wolfe and Archie Goodwin. It's hard not to, they work so well together and reading the stories from Archie's point of view gives us such a good look into their world. I can't help but chuckle at his personality and the way he gives the reader information.I highly recommend these books to anyone who is looking for a classic mystery. So much fun. And the TV series was just fantastic.
In this novel, about three\fifths of the way through the Nero Wolfe stories, Archie has grown to be far more intelligent than he first was, and Wolfe's role has, at least temporarily, receded somewhat.
I think that the reason for this is that having Archie take on a more perceptive aspect shifts more of the explication to him, which leaves Wolfe as the genius, still, but 1.) The reader gets to respect and know a more likable Archie, 2.) The weight of explication is spread more evenly across the pages, and 3.) The Wolfe/Goodwin relationship makes more sense.
There is more, and my list is not meant to exhaustive, but one hopes that this sort of thought is not without interest to others.
"We were now out about five Cs on the Yeager operation, and we had four clients and two bucks in retainers, plus a damn good chance of ending up in the coop for obstructing justice."Too Many Clients (1960) is the seventh book in the Nero Wolfe series that I am reviewing here and the thirty-fourth installment, chronologically, in this deservedly acclaimed series of mysteries featuring the obese genius, Nero Wolfe, and his intrepid, manly, and charming helper, Archie Goodwin.Archie is worried: with just $14,000 bank balance and $5,000 monthly household expenses things do not look good for the occupants of the brownstone on West 35th Street.
Nero Wolfe's household is low on expenses, so Archie decides that Wolfe needs a client. He decides to take on a case himself which leads to "too many clients" as well as two murders. Rex Stout and Agatha Christie are two authors I go to for a quick and enjoyable read, especially after reading a lot of classics.
Back in the day (smile), mysteries focused only on the mystery--no sex and usually no violence. Stout is a classic mystery writer. If you love this type of book, his are must-reads.
I thoroughly liked this book!!
This is a tightly paced story, with plenty of suspects and secrets that give Nero Wolfe a good puzzle.
We follow Archie Goodwin as he does the legwork for Wolfe to ponder upon.
The ONLY thing that I did NOT like is " Archie's " paragraph at the end.
" Archie" gives the standard" The events of this story are true, only the names have been changed to protect the innocent" bit.
It takes the reader out of the world of the story.
But, it comes at the very end of the book.
There's not much Wolfe at all.Other than that, what's notable about this book is the sex-addict angle.
A man beats his wife black and blue for cheating on him, and Archie considers sending him champagne for doing it (!!) If one is extremely charitable, it could be read (from previous comments by the man) as the wife needing BDSM in her sex life, her husband being unable to provide it, her seeking it elsewhere, and him finally coming up to scratch to put their marriage back together.
I think Archie thinks the wife deserves to be beaten (and it's described in horrific detail) for cheating.
Nero Wolfe may not be in the mood to put his brain to work, but the bank account is low and a millionaire has show up dead in his secret love-nest.
This particular volume of Nero Wolfe is slightly different in structure than a lot of the others, and I find its set up to be more interesting than its actual conclusion.
The murderer, when revealed, is not as satisfying a villain as I could hope for, and I think Stout might have been a little dazzled by his own set up, and spent less time focused on the actual crime.Thats alright.
A trip to Nero Wolfes brownstone is always a good time.
Unfortunately, Rex Stout's 1960 novel "Too Many Clients (A Nero Wolfe Mystery Book 34)" is dragged down by his use of a multitude of irrational characters.
I can see an evil villain behaving like a nut-job (of course, that would give away his being the guilty party), but when almost everyone involved runs around physically attacking people at the drop of a hat or flying off the handle in standard dialog, it just gets old, fast.
So, I'm dropping my rating for the book down to a mere OK 3 stars out of 5.
When a rich old white guy died in the '60s, it was big news. Especially when Archie Goodwin seems to somehow have known about it before the body was even found. Before the case is over, a secret love next will be found, a young girl will be murdered, and Nero Wolfe will have picked up four different clients.A lovely Wolfe story and surprising to me how well it was adapted in the 90s TV show.
I really enjoyed this one- but a note of caution: the topic was a bit more risqué than most Nero Wolfe books! I have one other comment: there is a scene where we learn that a man beat his wife. Archie’s words and actions are debated (in some online message boards I’ve seen) but it is clear to me that he thinks this is awful.
I deducted two stars because, while I expect misogyny from Wolfe, I don’t expect or like it from Archie. (view spoiler)[A woman is brutally beaten by her husband, and after Archie sees the husband’s handiwork, he sends the husband a bottle of Dom Perignon. (hide spoiler)]
Another great Nero Wolfe/Archie Goodwin read. As was stated in a clipping at the end of the book, there was more sex in this book but it wasn't enough to be distasteful.
A little too much Archie and not enough Wolfe, otherwise solid but not one of the best.
Classic Nero Wolfe and Archie Goodwin.
My least favorite Wolfe mystery.I was impressed though by Stout including poor Hispanic characters in 1960. very progressive.
As always with Nero Wolfe stories, a great read I couldn’t put down until the end.
great story
In Rex Stout's novel, Too Many Clients, a man approaches Archie, introduces himself as the vice president of a large company and asks Archie to follow him to a certain address at a certain time that night, in order to determine whether or not he, the vice president, is being followed by someone else.
Archie keeps his part of the bargain, but the man never shows up to be tailed; instead, his body is found some time later underneath a tarp on a construction site across the street from the address to which the vice president was headed - except that body is not the person with whom Archie met.
When Archie calls to see if the important man got cold feet, he finds Sgt. Stebbins of Homicide on the scene.
Then Lon Cohen of the newspaper calls and asks why Archie was researching a man 2 hours before he was murdered!
This is going to take Nero Wolfe's finesse and brain power to solve.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cover Art - Hmm. No cake in the book.
Probably a snide reference to having your cake and eating it, too.SPOILERS LOUNGING IN A PLUSH LOVE NESTIt's so tempting to spill the beans in the quick summary above that the dead man is not the man who came to see Archie.
Wolfe, of course, couldn’t be bothered by such details, but Archie has to drum up business somehow.
Now his office is visited by a man claiming to be business executive Thomas Yeager.
An elaborate scheme is developed to do this, but everything backfires when a man – positively ID’d as Yeager – is found dead in a street excavation in front of Yeager’s alleged business office.
Now Archie is beginning to pick up clients ike crazy – as you will soon see.
A lot of the action is telegraphed, so there aren’t many surprises left by the end.
Too Many Clients by Rex Stout is a Nero Wolfe novel.
I like Nero Wolfe novels, because there's almost always a plausible bit in the middle where they're all completely stumped and are just desperately flailing around hoping to get that one last piece of information that will lead to the solution.
And for this book specifically?
Of all the Nero Wolfe novels, this is one of them.
I like it, but there isn't a lot to recommend it specifically over any other Nero Wolfe.
I found the last couple Nero Wolfe books I read to be somewhat below par for Rex Stout (which still means they are very good mysteries!) So I was glad this one was so excellent: entertaining and a real page turner.
The plot and some of the language could not have occurred back in those days.
and I love that both Wolfe and Goodwin have their flaws exposed in these books, as well as their strengths.
I can hardly bear to read mysteries about super-men, Omni-competent detectives any more, and the same with dark, depressed, loners.
Give me Wolfe and Goodwin any day.

