https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/625215.The_Hotel
I had no expectations (or indeed any particular wish) to read about any romantic entanglements between the main characters, but I did expect the book to have story or a point but it seems that even these eluded me.The Hotel is about a group of English tourists (mostly women) who holiday in a hotel in Italy.
There is a group of older women, a few younger ones and the two main characters - Mrs. Kerr and Sydney.
Their friendship is somewhat disrupted, however, when Mrs Kerr's son arrives at the hotel and one of the other guests, a clergyman, falls in love with Sydney and proposes to her.
Yes you can get to the bottom of what she means but they were a little exhausting and made for a very slow reading of the book:“James Milton’s attempt to come farther into her life, to regions by his acquaintance of them surely sufficiently ice-bound, appeared in the light of present considerations heroic: he had been staking his future.
On the other hand you have paragraphs like this one:“It was another of those idyllic evenings, agonisingly meaningless: the evening air brought out the scent of lemons.
Thin blue smoke drifted away through the clearness....”And you see that’s why I am glad I read The Hotel - for paragraphs such as this one.
It was like Enchanted April without the enchantment and Room with a View with lots of Rooms in the Hotel and views of Italy but no passion.
There are lots of interesting reflections on time, on seizing the day and the sorts of relationship that can help us get through life, all taking place in the Italian countryside.
Strangely there is almost no mention of any Italians.
Its a strange book, with quite a few relationships and things that are never fully explained, and the writing is very dense at times but beautiful I found.
My, my, but a rather disappointing read.
There was one scene I found rather amusing, but on the whole, nothing really happens, it's hard to like any of the characters and if this is what it was like to be a wealthy British citizen in the late 1920s, post-Great War, then I for one am glad I wasn't part of it.
Now Bowen must be able to write better, since her Collected Stories is on the Bloom's Canon, but it's not likely I will be reading that after this experience.I can see why I wasn't able to get it through my library network, and ended up buying a used copy which is a discarded library copy that is in excellent condition, printed in 1972.
Sometimes described as a 1920s Jane Austen (bit of a stretch), but I see more likeness to Anita Brookner. Relatively light, character rather than plot-driven, but some intriguing and well observed social insights and very unexpected metaphors. One or two grating phrases, but far more brilliant ones. Upper middle class Brits staying in a Mediterranean hotel. A little confusing at first when you encounter Mrs X and Jane, but don't immediately realise or remember that they are one and the same.
I was wanting to love her -- lesbian! Early 20th-century! Something of a classic. But this took me FOREVER to get through. I was bored, and yet it was completely up my alley: sea resort hotel populated by upper-middle class British people. Comedy of manners. But not so funny or interesting, alas.
Bowen's prose is Modernist and she uses a modified version of Woolf's free indirect discourse to good effect.
I say the narration is more like Austen in that Bowen moves in and out of her characters' consciousnesses and also makes use of third person narration whereas in Woolf's more modernist works the reader is primarily inside the heads of characters throughout.There is a rather interesting allusion to Pride and Prejudice in the novel that I am still processing.
I'm not convinced that Bowen was fully successful in what she was trying to achieve in this, her first, novel, but the style and subject matter is intriguing enough for me that I'll likely read more from her.
In this scene, Tessa is in conversation with several other ladies in the hotel drawing-room.Tessa continued: ‘Sydney is very affectionate.’‘She is very much…absorbed, isn’t she, by Mrs Kerr?’‘I have known other cases,’ said somebody else, looking about vaguely for her scissors, ‘of these very violent friendships.
62)And so the discussion continues in a similar vein.Other notable guests at the hotel include Mr and Mrs Lee-Mittison, the Ammerings and their son Victor and the Lawrence girls, Veronica, Eileen and Joan.
While the Lee-Mittisons are very happy for Sydney and the Lawrence sisters to attend, they are none too pleased when Victor Ammering shows up on the scene, much to Veronica Lawrence’s amusement when she goes off with the young man.
This was an interesting, at time challenging, read.
On the one hand, it was really very beautifully written.
On the other hand, for the most part, I was pretty sure I didn't get a word of it.
By the end, I began to slowly see the light, but even so I wasn't sure and I had to look up several academic analyses of the work to see how it matched up to my own interpretation.
This isn't, in itself, a bad thing.
But it did impede my complete enjoyment of it.
Even now, I feel like I have a lot of questions about what happened here.
The main gist of the book is commentary on the British upper-class society and it's prejudices and problems caused by this.
The story is about British travelers who are staying in a hotel on the Italian coast and their interactions.The characters are well-drawn, with both men and women equally well portrayed.
There is romance, friendship, and much more going on in the book, and it will keep you reading.
Bowen's style is lovely, and her descriptions often make one feel as though one is right there with her in the beauty of the Italian coast, with its hills, olive trees, flowers, and more.
I'm sorry to say that I didn't enjoy this book very much at all until after I'd finished it and then read what other people have written about it, only to discover it's seething with Lesbianism.
I thought there was something I was missing.
Apparently, though 1927 was a banner year for lesbian literature (viz.
The Well of Loneliness), the Love That Dare Not Speak Its Name really has a hard time pronouncing itself in this extremely opaque novel.
Now I'll have to read it again, demmit.
Darlings, you'll enjoy the book much more if you just keep in mind going in that Sydney's a Secret Sapphist.
I bogged down in this one. Couldn't get interested in the characters. Didn't finish.
In their hotel, she is supposed to have developed an "unhealthy" attachment to a beautiful widow, Mrs. Kerr.
Sydney is supposed to feel "slighted' or something.
I guess the reader is supposed to feel that this is the opposite of the truth, and that Mrs Kerr is a sinister woman, like Mrs Merle or other malevolent Henry James characters.
Secondary characters and set pieces like picnics and outings involving numerous hotel guests are quite well done, but ultimately I felt baffled and frustrated with the crucial elements of the book.
But for such a short book, The Hotel took me an awfully long time to read.The Hotel is not a novel to read for the story; there is actually very little in the way of plot.
Whenever I put the book down, there was never a hurry to pick it up again.I read The House in Paris several years ago and, while I liked it better than The Hotel, the same coolness was present and it was also a very slow read.
I wonder if this is true for all of Bowen's novels.I hate to say it, but the cover was my favorite part of this book.Bottom line:The Hotel is beautifully written and insightful, but somewhat cold and not especially compelling.
A wonderful book so evocative of the era of the 1920's.Set on the Italian Riviera, a cast of characters who are staying in the hotel.The bathroom scene was so funny and typical of a time before en-suites!I loved it!
Without being a masterpiece like some of Bowen’s later novels, this is still an incredible debut—mostly because of how self-assured and perfunctory the writing is without making a stylistic point about it.
I can’t think of anyone that age today who could sustain subtlety and wit enough to write that on page 86 of a novel, never mind to have Bowen’s sense to fit it all in a mere 176 pages.Elsewhere (p.
98): “‘Does it seem to you,’ she said weightily, ‘that this world is entirely divided into rather stupid men and very silly women?
However, the reason it intrigued me was that it was hyped as a novel with delicate undertones of things going on between people beneath their superficial daily interactions.
In fact, I found Bowen's writing so opaque that I often had no idea what was going on!
Sydney is supposed to be suffering an "unhealthy" attachment to a Mrs Kerr, who is one of those ultra-worldly types native to hotels on the Riviera, but there is no sense of this attachment coming from either Mrs Kerr or Sydney - only a bit of reported gossip from the other ladies and one or two other vague indications in the text.
There is definitely still some plot action, but mostly Bowen chooses to focus on developing the interior thoughts of the main characters.
I turn to a Bowen book when I want beautifully constructed sentences, thoughtful interior monologues (and dialogues too) that just always hit the nail on the head, and an exquisite sense of place and time.
This book was a perfect way for me to slow down after reading a few mystery books that I was able to just page right through.
There were definitely moments where I thought, "Yes, exactly!" after reading a section.
I would recommend this to someone looking for a slow, thoughtful read.
When there's a young teen and his father on the bed next to you hyucking at the top of their lungs over the Marx Brothers, "this collapse had its austere fitness" is just a bunch of blithering.But when you're reading in peace & quiet, there's such a wonderful, insightful skew on reality to almost everything Bowen put into words.Plus, Veronica Lawrence, not the heroine of The Hotel but now my personal heroine?
Does it ever occur to you being alive is a mistake?" And, "Look at the ridiculous way people don't know what they want and the fuss they make when they can't get it."And I absolutely love Bowen's "horrible little blighter," ten-year-old Cordelia, who's not afraid to call a spade a spade: "I only like people in books, who only exist when they matter."
Elizabeth Bowen's first published novel, this is a beautifully written novel, a hugely accomplished work, not my favourite Bowen, but very good indeed.Full review here: https://heavenali.wordpress.com/2014/...
Bowen's first book - perhaps should have been a long short story… superb command of language.

Nicely written but just didn’t warm to any of the characters. A nice enough read but glad to finish it!!
Her first novel apparently - could explain why I never reached the end; tried it several times, sticking about chapters 3 or 4.
I remember that I liked the language but I do not remember anything from the book.
I’ve enjoyed other literature from the 1920s, and the back cover copy of my edition promised great things - ‘The world’s Bowen creates are so immediately absorbing, the glimpses she allows us of the eccentricities of other people’s relationships so fascinating, that one cannot helping wanting more’.Well I could have done with more story for one, though I agree that the book’s strength lies in its character studies, and in particular in the relationships between the characters.
They occupy a bubble in space and time - a hotel on the Italian Riviera, and herein lies the concept and also the really the difficulty of the book.
Probably more of a 3.5 but I feel bad giving Elizabeth Bowen less than four stars because she is awesome.
I love passionate yet unspoken love affairs where two people express their fervent love for one another solely by exchanging tortured looks.
But this was just a little too unspoken in that there were significant portions where I could only guess at what was happening.
Maybe Elizabeth Bowen is a genius and the book is emulating the repressed emotions of its characters and the confusion I felt trying to understand the plot mirrors Sydney's struggle with the opacity of life.
An interesting book with some lovely passages, but patchy to follow and sometimes confusing. All became clear at the end. Feel that this book will pay re-reading as I did get frustrated at times and perhaps glossed over some parts without realising their full significance as I lost track easily. Perhaps explained by this being her first published novel as later works I have very much enjoyed.
This book started out splendidly for me, I rushed through the first third but got bogged down in the middle. Bowen's language takes some getting used to and some of it felt a bit convoluted to me. Still, some interesting ideas, and I liked the end. I'll try her again.
A selection of the English middle classes are 'over-wintering' in a hotel on the Italian Riviera in the 1920 sThis is stunning- wry, incisive, quite cruel with great insight. Not a bit dated. The characters are superb and the language incredible.
