https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/311227.The_Conqueror
This was always my favourite of GH's historicals (although GH did slip in a romance between two of the fictional characters - she just can't help herself :D ) but this time I enjoyed my read more than ever before.Being older now the romance isn't so important to me and watching William develop as both a strategist and warrior was fascinating.As I said above, there is romance a less than PC one between William & Matilda - I worry that some of the violence may have reflected GH's own views- &a
This was always my favourite of GH's historicals (although GH did slip in a romance between two of the fictional characters - she just can't help herself :D ) but this time I enjoyed my read more than ever before.Being older now the romance isn't so important to me and watching William develop as both a strategist and warrior was fascinating.As I said above, there is romance a less than PC one between William & Matilda - I worry that some of the violence may have reflected GH's own views- & a more tender one between fictional characters Raoul & Elfrida.
But this is an early GH book and she hadn't developed the deft hand she showed in most of her later books.It is important to remember that this is fiction and that GH may have omitted some facts or they may not have been available to her.
The Conqueror is one of six historical novels written by Georgette Heyer, who is best known for her Regency Romances, and if this is an indication of the other five - then sign me up!Heyer brings us back to 11th Century Normandy and introduces us to William, Duke of Normandy, (a.k.a. William the Bastard) through the eyes of Raoul de Harcourt - a knight in Duke William's retinue.Raoul began his service to the Duke as a young knight and he quickly rose to be one of William's most trusted friends.

The truth was he never swerved from his purpose, and would go to any lengths to achieve it.History tells us that William of Normandy was born a bastard, held off multiple assassination attempts, became Duke of Normandy, repelled the French and invaded England to become it's King.This is the same story that Georgette Heyer tells here only it is told very thrillingly indeed.She begins her story with the birth of William and a prophetic dream of his mother who foresees him as a great tree spreading it's branches over both England and Normandy.
I first read this novel many years ago and enjoyed it this time as much as I did the first time.
The language is not dated and the tale of William the Conqueror and Raoul de Harcourt nicknamed The Watcher gripped me from beginning to end.
Here is the drama of William's rough wooing of Matilda, of Harold Godwinson breaking his oath to accept William as king after Edward the Confessor's death.
Of Raoul's friendship with a Saxon hostage and Raoul's love for the hostage's sister Elfrida.
Whether or not that love will survive the Norman conquest adds poignancy to the novel.
But love stories are a small part.In these two cases your expectations will not meet.If you expect a great historical fiction you will not be disappointed.The history of William the Conqueror is written with a passion of a historian.
I think that Heyer should have written more historical fiction books.
It shows how a writer can speak to a reader through his pages, through his stories.I am grateful to Heyer for a wonderful time with her book (but I am also a little sad because I have only her one historical fiction to read: My Lord John)
It's boring.I leave all issues of historical accuracy to the anal-compulsive yammerers who think fiction should obey the laws of fact, contenting myself only with the observation that there are a scant number of primary sources from 900-plus years ago, so just unpucker and leave it alone.The book starts with imagining the life of William's mother, Herleva, in the tannery town of Falaise.
Nobosy knows if William's mother was named Herleva for a fact; nobody knows when he was born; nobody knows much about Falaise and its townspeople; so QUIT PRETENDING WE DO!
Quite possibly Heyer at her worst. The two heroines are so horrid that I could believe they were written by a misogynist. Matilda: a ice-queen bitch who might seem strong-willed but really she just wants the right man to come along and force her submission. Elfrida: spineless moron just waiting for the right man to tell her what she really wants. I wish all the romance had been left out so I could've enjoyed the battle scenes in peace.
I love Georgette Heyer's historical romances, and while I really enjoyed the history portion of this story, there was little compelling "romance" or even character conflict to keep me pushing through to the end (I did get there, though, and did actually enjoy the last few chapters once I got there).
I do feel that I have more of a grasp on where and how William the Conqueror happened, and I'm always very interested in British and European history, but will probably stick to Heyer's more romantic, less history-as-info-dump novels in the future.
Perhaps that is what it took to gain a country like England but the author suggests there was something lost in the man for the effort as echoed in the reservations uttered by the men who served him.
Such things also slowed down the reading of the tale in places and made it difficult at times to understand just what was going on or who the men were behind all those names.In large part (perhaps the best part), this is the story of a friendship between one of William's closest knights, Raoul de Harcourt, and a Saxon, Edgar, who held lands under Harold Godwinson and who was the hostage of the Duke of Normandy.
While I normally love historical fiction (unable to put a book down), this novel had a hard time keeping me interested.
Not quite biography, not quite historical fiction, I was disappointed that the novel didn't let me inside William's head.
Personally, if I can't be inside the historical character's head, then I'd rather read a biography of the person than fiction.
In contrast, the relationship between Raoul and his friend, Edgar, had much more romance and love portrayed.
It just wasn't for me, and I'm doubtful I'll read anymore of Heyer's books.
It is really, after all, a book about William, Duke of Normandy, a man of complex character and ruthless ambition, whose magnetism, self-confidence, and powerful leadership compelled the loyalty and service --if not the love-- of virtually everyone around him.
It is excellently, thoroughly researched, and written in Georgette Heyer's inimitable style, though without the sardonic humor that is so prevalent in her regency novels.
I found the in-depth exploration of the character of William, Duke of Normandy, and the juxtaposition of William and England's King Harold, together with the contrasting but thoroughly humanizing views of the Saxons and the Normans as manifested in an enormous cast of characters, to be especially fascinating.
Could not finish it, since it turned out to be only a maze of conspiracies and wars, presented in very complex language of the era that made the reading weary.This book is story of William the bastard, the Duke of Normandy (who used to sign as Bastardus' who became King of England after winning the battle of Hastings.
For my part, most interesting or rather shocking part of the book was where Matilda, a widow when presented with William's marriage offer refuses him in public court saying, 'she can not marry a base born'.
The setting is medieval as opposed to Georgian, the prose is not her best and the main relationships in the novel are all between men - principally Raoul de Harcourt and William the Conqueror, and Raoul and a Saxon hostage Edgar.
While there is romance featured - William and his bride Matilda and Raoul himself and Edgar's sister Elfrida - it is the interactions of the men in the book that forms the novel's focus.
However one of Georgette Heyer's strengths is her description of battles and this is definitely shown in "The Conqueror".
Overall the Conqueror is the best of Georgette Heyer's pre-Georgian novels.
It is not told from his perspective; it is told from the perspective of one of his loyal men--servants, warriors--Raoul.My thoughts: Would The Conqueror conquer me or would I conquer The Conqueror?
(I can honestly say that if this was the first Heyer novel I picked up, I would never pick up another one.)I didn't care about the characters for the most part.
I doubt her intentions were to make a 470 page novel feel like 2,000 pages.
I read this in my teens after reading Jean Plaidy's The Bastard King. I liked both for different reasons. Both were historical fiction with lots of research to back up the dramatic storytelling and breathing new life into the dry facts. Heyer conveyed a wealth of reality to the warfare and not afraid of conveying the brutality and non PC sensibilities of the times. However unlike Jean Plaidy she could not resist inserting a fictional character/romance into the tale. I enjoyed it very much.
review to come :)
While she does a great job of showing how Williams illegitimacy likely motivated him throughout his life, it is unclear why William would undertake his seemingly foolhardy conquest to take the throne from the beloved Saxon Harold Godwineson.Heyer's approach to this novel reminded me of Sharon Kay Penman's approach in When Christ and His Saints Slept (I would say the reverse because Heyer's novel was written earlier, but I read SKP's novel before I read Heyer's novel).
I have read nearly all of Georgette Heyer's books, and was particularly drawn to her Regency era novels, but I believe this historical depiction of William the Conqueror is her greatest masterpiece!Let me re-phrase ...
I could not put the book down and I could not have enough of it!"Simon the Coldheart" was the first of Heyer's Medieval novels to clinch my interest.
It is a great pity that Georgette Heyer does not receive the same kind of adulation as a period author as, for instance, Jane Austen does.
Georgette Heyer writes with better wit and skill from posterity.
This would be a high 3 stars so I just went with a 4.
What a fascinating read of William the Conqueror.
Heyer has a nice style of story telling, although there were parts that read like a history book.
I always like reading about English history and it is more fun to see how other countries perceived England.
There are many battles in the book, but the grandest battle is against England.
If nothing the book made me want to study the history of Normandy and William.
I always like to know what is truth and what is a good story created by someone.
I've taken it into my head to read the historical/romance novels on Georgette Heyer in chronological order - well, the one's I have access to via the library and have not already read in the last 3 or 4 years at least.
This is the first, and also the first of her histories I've read (although there was a HEA for the main character, and probably for the Conqueror himself on reflection).
I found the going a bit difficult to start with, but as I adjusted to the deliberately archaic language, and as the relationships between the characters developed things speeded up some.
This particular period of history is not one I've ventured into previously.
What is with this cover art??
It totally misrepresents a book that is thoroughly gripping to read, relatively historically accurate, and actually pretty gruesome.Just to make it clear, there are no harem pants and crop tops to be found here.Meanwhile, another reviewer totally pegged this accurately as a "bromance," not a romance as the cover implies.
Ah, and thankfully so much easier to read than Beauvallet.
Of all the Heyer reads that ought to be made into movies, this one stands high on the list for its epic scope and compelling story telling.
Well, I read all the way to page 135 - Chapter 3 of book 2 - and that much was nearly torture.I just could NOT get into this book. It's so dry, the writing is so cumbersome...I found myself reading words and not really paying attention to the story. I can't remember the last time I gave up on a book, but I couldn't keep reading this one.
Well, this was my first Georgette Heyer, and I'd heard all about how she is the queen of Regency, but I thought I'd give one of her books that wasn't regency a chance. I sure thought there was going to be a lot more romance in it. I still learned a whole lot about William the Conqueror. I guess I'll try a regency next.
I nearly quit reading it several times. It was boring and there was too many battles.
A very fine read. The rise and the fall of kings and, just perhaps, William I as you'd never imagined him.
First book of Ms Heyer that i ever read so this book holds a special place in my heart. Little did I know that the sad little forgotten book in my school library would open a whole new world of romance novels and Ms Heyer in particular. Thank you !!
Непоганий художній твір про герцога Нормандії Вільгельма Завойовника, переможця битви під Гастінгсом, майбутнього короля Англії. розповідь ведеться від імені одного з його лицарів. Реальні події переплітаються з вигаданими.
This is an excellent book about William the Conquerer who became King of England in the early 1000's. . This is the first book by Georgette Heyer that I have read and she has written many historical novels and I intend to read many more of them.
Not the best of novels about Matilda . This was stilted, and so Many characters to try to remember.
