https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24396876-the-thing-about-jellyfish
Usually, I’m annoyed with books that present a dead character in a story and even make them part of the main cast, because WE don’t know them as well as the characters in the book do.But Ali Benjamin succeeded to make me care about Suzy’s best friend who drowned and died, leaving her friendless and feeling alone.Except Suzy was already friendless even before her best friend died.
The past focuses on the relationship between Suzy and her best friend, as if she were writing in a journal to Franny.
"If people were silent, they could hear the noise of their own lives better. If people were silent, it would make what they did say, whenever they chose to say it, more important. If people were silent, they could read one another's signals, the way underwater creatures flash lights at one another, or turn their skin different colors." After her best friend dies in a drowning accident, Suzy refuses to speak, and she is determined to discover the true cause of why the unthinkable happened. As sh
If people were silent, they could read one another's signals, the way underwater creatures flash lights at one another, or turn their skin different colors."
As she processes her grief and the journey at the point from when she and her friend first met, until her tragic death, Suzy begins to learn more about the complexities of friendship, and of the beauty and heartache in life.This is a beautiful, middle grade novel that happens to be a great read for all ages, and especially meaningful if you have undergone the loss of a loved one.
This is THE BEST YOUNG ADULT BOOK ....If you want a book to feel uplifted and inspired ...
written by very bright talented author!' Thank you 'Little Brown Young Readers', Netgalley, and a 'new favorite' author--*Ali Benjamin* for the opportunity to read this.
Ali Benjamin wrote a book to be very proud about...
-- we've read books on the theme before about 'The awkward years'....
which will have any young readers looking at their own friendships and School community connections.
Parents will question themselves -- wondering 'what might they have done to help prevent some of the painful lessons child face on their own.
The Thing About Jellyfish is the heartrending tale of Suzy Swanson, a little girl who just encountered the Worst Thing: death.
Even if the time doesn't end when, or how, we expected.
What my dad wanted, I suspect, was the thing everybody seems to want: small talk.
I don't understand small talk.
I don't even understand why it's called that - small talk - when it fills up so much space.
The Thing About Jellyfish is a beautifully crafted tale about beginnings stemming from pain and blooming into a life worth cherishing.
After the two had a falling out in the sixth grade year, Franny died during the ensuing summer before they had a chance to heal their friendship.عنوانها: شاید عروس دریایی؛ عروس دریایی؛ گناه عروس دریایی؛ نویسنده: الی بنجامین؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز سی و یکم ماه ژانویه سال 2017 میلادیعنوان: شاید عروس دریایی؛ نویسنده: الی بنجامین؛ مترجم: آرزو قلیزاده؛ تهران، نشر پرتقال، 1395؛ در 288 ص؛ شابک: 9786008111474؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان انگلیسی - سده 21 معنوان: عروس دریایی؛ نویسنده: الی بنجامین؛ مترجم: کیوان عبیدی آشتیانی؛ تهران، افق، 1395؛ در 264 ص؛ شابک: 9786003532380؛ عنوان: گناه عروس دریایی؛ نویسنده: الی بنجامین؛ مترجم: شهناز صاعلی؛ تهران، پیدایش، 1395؛ در 306 ص؛ شابک: 9786002964564؛ پشت جلد کتاب: بعضی از قلب‌ها فقط چهارصدودوازده میلیون بار می‌تپند.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/WARNING: SPOILER-ISH ^^^That’s a boldface lie. I read this book months ago, but I suck at keeping up with reviews so I’m just now getting around to saying something about it. First things first – this is a MIDDLE GRADE novel. (In case you’re wondering – I rate books according to how I feel they hold up when compared with others in their genre.) That being said, this is a very important middle grade story and y’all can just color me imp
(In case you’re wondering – I rate books according to how I feel they hold up when compared with others in their genre.) That being said, this is a very important middle grade story and y’all can just color me impressed.
Convinced that could not be the case because said friend was a good swimmer, Suzy believes the “drowning” must have really been an altercation with a jellyfish and becomes determined to meet the world’s foremost expert on the creatures in order to prove it .
So the more venom a creature has, the more we should be able to forgive that animal.
I liked the narrative voice, and at first I was intrigued by the connections drawn to jellyfish.
Then I finished it, and found the author's note at the end, which says that the story was born from "failure:" because it started out as a nonfiction essay about her fascination with jellyfish.
I did like the realistic way that the author handled certain things, including the family (especially Suzy's relationship with her brother and his boyfriend), and the ending to her quest (view spoiler)[for once, the kid does not get to go on a big crazy trip by herself and is stopped by people in charge (hide spoiler)].
"There's no single right way to say goodbye to someone you love. But the most important thing is that you keep some part of them inside you." The Thing About Jellyfish is a heartfelt and touching story of grief, acceptance, friendship, family and fitting in. A profound novel with a plausible voice of a girl who grieved of her loss and sought for the answers at the same time.It is a middle-grade novel that centers to Suzy Swanson and her mission to unravel the mystery (or prove her theory) behin
The Thing About Jellyfish is a heartfelt and touching story of grief, acceptance, friendship, family and fitting in.
And she assumed that maybe her best friend has been killed by a jellyfish sting.What I loved about this book is how believable Suzy's voice and feelings were.
Her thoughts of the present, however, reminds me of how sad and painful losing a loved one.This book obviously is about jellyfish, too.
It offers knowledge and facts about these animals and opens a new perspective about jellyfish and the way we see things.
Review also on  “But a person doesn’t always know the difference between a new beginning and a forever sort of ending.”Suzy Swanson stopped talking when her best friend Franny died in a drowning accident. Channeling her lingering guilt over her last encounter with Franny and grief, Suzy turns to silence and science. Refusing to take her mother's stoic explanation that things just happen, Suzy shuts everybody out and obsessively works out a grandiose plan to prove that a jellyfish sting is the re
“But a person doesn’t always know the difference between a new beginning and a forever sort of ending.”Suzy Swanson stopped talking when her best friend Franny died in a drowning accident.
Refusing to take her mother's stoic explanation that things just happen, Suzy shuts everybody out and obsessively works out a grandiose plan to prove that a jellyfish sting is the real reason for her best friend's death.I hate to say this, but we've all been or will be Suzy Swanson at some point in our lives.
دیشب رفتم پردیس کتابِ خیابون دانشگاهمون. اگه ساکن مشهد باشین، میدونین اینجا چقد جای محشریه. حداقل به چشم من. با وجودِ اینکه خیلی سرد بود و داشتم سگلرررررز میزدم، اینقد خوشال بودم که ریز ریز میخندیدم و بلند بلند با خودم حرف میزدم! و به شدت جلو خودمو میگرفتم که قِر ندم- به ویژه که چندروزه رگِ لگم بدجوری سرماخورده و گرفته- بدون توجه نسبت به عابرهای بندهخدایی که مجبور بودن صدای جنونآمیزمو تحمل کنن و آوازخوندنای بداهه و دیوونهوارمو :)) این کتاب برام عجین شده با کلی خاطرهی خوب. از دیشب و خلبازیام و دی
با وجودِ این‌که خیلی سرد بود و داشتم سگ‌لرررررز می‌زدم، این‌قد خوشال بودم که ریز ریز می‌خندیدم و بلند بلند با خودم حرف می‌زدم!
و به شدت جلو خودمو می‌گرفتم که قِر ندم- به ویژه که چندروزه رگِ لگم بدجوری سرماخورده و گرفته- بدون توجه نسبت به عابرهای بنده‌خدایی که مجبور بودن صدای جنون‌آمیزمو تحمل کنن و آوازخوندنای بداهه و دیوونه‌وارمو :)) این کتاب برام عجین شده با کلی خاطره‌ی خوب.
حتی اگه مجموعه ترانه‌های سیامک عباسی باشه که اونم به نیت داداشم گرفتم- آخه خیلی آهنگاشو می‌ذاره.
ولی در مجموع، داستان خیلی برام دوست‌داشتنی بود.
There are several other novels which I've read belonging to the same brotherhood, blindly following the same storyline, the central character working on some sort of a science project, dealing with death and dark demons and yada yada.
Initially, I felt that the facts about jelly fish weren't properly stitched into the fabric of the novel.
They were just stated plainly and I felt as though I was reading a scientific research work.
The sole reason for which I did not DNF this book was because I very much appreciate learning a word or two while reading fiction.
The Thing About Jellyfish is a beautifully written middle grade novel about the evolving nature of friendship, the labyrinth of discovering one's true identity, and the search for explanations to the mysteries of life.
I also enjoyed the author's anecdote in the acknowledgment section about how this book was born from the failure to get her essay about jellyfish accepted for submission.Suzy and Franny had been the best of friends since they met in swim class at the age of five.
Then the summer before the seventh grade, Franny drowns while swimming in the ocean.
Brilliant. This book was everything.
The Thing About Jellyfish is a touching tale about a young girl whose best (and only) friend drowns while on holiday.
I’m so pleased I discovered this book.I feel like I’ve just had a life changing lesson in jellyfish, amongst other important things, from a very smart 12 year old.
The Thing About Jellyfish is a great story for older children, young teenagers, and it seems this 37 year old girl very much enjoyed it too.I would like to thank the publisher, Little, Brown Books for Young Readers for allowing me a copy of this book via Netgalley in exchange for an honest review.
And the third friend is in the agent query trenches with a novel that could be adult literary fiction or YA, depending on the spin and the audience.
Knowing what a crazy-gifted writer she is, we offered our support and wisdom, assuring her it was a matter of time before the right agent fell in love with her story.
And once I did, the very next day at the literary fiction writer-friend's bookstore she owns with her poet-husband, I could not put it down.
4.5 /5 Kitap daha doğrusu Suzy o kadar içime işledi ki.
12 yaşında bir çocuk nasıl böyle bir kederin içinde olabilir aklım almadı.
Ama kitabın en başında Suzy'nin diğer çocuklar gibi olmadığını anlıyorsunuz.
Arkadaşını kaybetmiş olmanın onun üzerinde yarattığı etki o kadar güzel işlenmişti ki, kalbinin kırıklığını ben kalbimde hissettim.
Suzy, Franny öldükten sonra geçmişi telafi etmek için onun asıl ölüm sebebini bulmaya kafayı takıyor ve peşine düşüyor.
Franny'nin boğulduğuna bir türlü inanmayan Suzy onun bir denizanası sokması sonucu olduğunu düşünüyor ve bunu kanıtlayarak hem kötü biten arkadaşlıklarını telafi etmeyi hem de kendini huzura kavuşturmayı düşünüyor.
Bence kitap aldığı ödülleri sonuna kadar hak ediyor.
Çok şey öğrendim. Tüm genç okurlara tavsiye ederim!
“It's peculiar how no-words can be better than words. Silence can say more than noise, in the same way that a person's absence can occupy even more space than their presence did." The Thing about Jellyfish reminded me of my love for middle grade books, and why no matter how old I get, I will always return to them. Check out my buddy Neil's glowing review for this amazingly heartfelt novel! I wanted to write a review, but his sums it up far better than I could do it justice.  “In the end, it's a
“It's peculiar how no-words can be better than words.
Silence can say more than noise, in the same way that a person's absence can occupy even more space than their presence did."
Check out my buddy Neil's glowing review for this amazingly heartfelt novel!
I wanted to write a review, but his sums it up far better than I could do it justice.
“In the end, it's a gift to spend time with people we care about.
Even if that time doesn't end when, or how, we expected.
Even when that person leaves us.”
Ah Suzy... Sen ne kadar naif, ne kadar tatlı bir çocuksun. O kadar içime işledin ki.. Hayata, arkadaşlığa bakışın,düşüncelerin çok güzel. Kesinlikle okunması gereken bir kitap bence. Aşktan fantastik olmaktan uzak çok gerçekçi bir roman. Bu tarz bir romana ihtiyacım varmış gerçekten. Çok severek okudum...
Partilha-se o Inferno!...É assim agora e sempre, amen!...Imagine-se agora um caso de perda que sucede num desses períodos mais obscuros.Duas jovens são melhores amigas e uma delas perece num acidente, numa fase mais assanhada da sua relação.
Como reagirá aquela que fica?...É uma situação deste tipo que esta estória se propõe explorar.Quanto a mim satisfatoriamente, pois mostra-nos um caminho...uma receita de sobrevivência, digamos assim!...Cuidado com a MedusaParalelamente, vamos aprender imenso sobre medusas.
Os que morarem em vivendas poderão inclusivé afixar cartazes nos respectivos portões - avisos do tipo "Cuidado Com A Medusa" serão certamente úteis para afastar visitantes indesejáveis ;)
"Talvez seja isso que acontece quando uma pessoa cresce. Talvez o espaço entre você e as outras pessoas da sua vida fique tão grande que você pode enchê-lo com todo tipo de mentiras." Eu sou apaixonado por histórias que mostram o mundo a partir da visão de uma criança, então, comecei essa leituras cheio de expectativas. E não me decepcionei <3Suzy e as águas-vivas é uma história sobre família, perda e amizades que não duram para sempre. E a autora consegue falar sobre tudo isso com muita sen
"Talvez seja isso que acontece quando uma pessoa cresce.
Talvez o espaço entre você e as outras pessoas da sua vida fique tão grande que você pode enchê-lo com todo tipo de mentiras."
E não me decepcionei <3Suzy e as águas-vivas é uma história sobre família, perda e amizades que não duram para sempre.
E a autora consegue falar sobre tudo isso com muita sensibilidade e delicadeza, criando uma voz única para a Suzy.
E, nem sempre, crescer significa que vai ficar tudo bem.
Por ser uma criança cercada de pessoas tão maravilhosas, eu fechei a última página do livro tranquilo, com a certeza de que Suzy vai ficar bem.
The Thing About Jellyfish is a young adult book centered on grief at a young age.
It’s definitely a YA story but a touching one, that reminds readers of the traditionally tough age and mindset of middle-schoolers, and that everyone deals with grief in different ways.
I also enjoyed the elements of Zu’s curiosity and interest in learning - Science was never a favorite subject of mine, but the curious concepts are universal and can be applied to any area of interest.
While The Thing About Jellyfish wasn’t one of my all-time favorites, I appreciated this story, which was also a quick read.
Que livro lindo, singelo e profundo!Não tinha expectativas altas e não esperava me sentir da forma como me senti durante a leitura.
Adoro histórias, como essa, em que a personagem passa por uma jornada que a faz chegar a uma conclusão ou a um crescimento, mas você consegue acompanhar todo o passo a passo e ver isso de forma gradual.Acho que a única coisa que eu não gostei tanto foi o excesso de informação.
Eu sei que a personagem é inteligente e sabe muitos fatos aleatórios, mas tinham momentos em que ela divagava por várias coisas que só me deixavam angustiado para passar logo por aquilo e seguir com a história.
This frankly very strange yet wonderful middle-grade novel focuses on several themes, including grief, science and social isolation. How much is too much when it comes to mourning? When does loss become an obsession? How far should kids be pushed to say goodbye and let go of the past? These questioned are all addressed whilst Suzy tries her best to cling onto something she can understand. With the help of a caring teacher, she finds solace in science and starts learning how to move on.
Suzy is a very unique and slightly eccentric 12 year-old who stops talking after the death of her best friend, Franny (who perished in a drowning accident).
Suzy throws herself in researching everything she can about jellyfish.
We see Suzy enter the different stages of grief in an accurate and effective way.
It does what it needs to do, one beat after another, until gets the message that it's time to stop, which might happen a few minutes from now, and you don't even know it.
Because some hearts beat only about 412 million times.
This book should be sold with a pack of kleenex.
So, I guess it's about pretty much everything which may seem impossible in a 300 page novel for middle grade readers, but it seems to me that is the job of all the best books regardless of the targeted age of their audiences.This title has been getting a lot of buzz (Indies Introduce, BEA Middle Grade Buzz selection) and in my opinion, it deserves it.
Plus, if you read it you'll pick up some very interesting facts about jellyfish that I'm pretty sure you don't already know -- useful at any age.
This is a lovely YA book about a child's first encounter with the mourning process.
Bereavement is never easy, but for children it seems to be particularly confusing.
Benjamin tells us the story of a young teenage girl who loses her best friend and the difficulties she encounters coming to terms with this loss.It may be that I have not been a teenager for a while, but some of the passages seemed unnecessarily long to me.
But when I asked my students about the pacing of this book they all liked it enormously!
So it definitely works for the target audience!
LOVE. And am now spewing out jellyfish facts at the brunch table like a boss.
اثری جالب و قابل توجه در بخش نوجوان که بچه ها از خوندنش لذت میبرن و بزرگترا درکش میکنن این کتاب کاملا بر اساس نظریه ی معروف پنج مرحله ی اندوه ساخته شده و فک میکنم در آخر به خوبی میتونه به نتیجه برسه و منظور خودش رو برسونه داستان اصلش یه مقداری کلیشه ای بود ولی خب با وارد کردن عروس دریایی ها به داستان یه حس جذابی بش داده بپددر مجموع داستان لذت بخش و جذابی بود و من خیلی دوسش داشام
4.5Que história linda e delicada. A escrita da autora é tão cuidadosa e cheia de capricho que dá vontade de marcar todas as frases. Admito q pra um infanto juvenil é um livro de bastante impacto emocional. Não esperava que fosse mexer tanto comigo. Em alguns momentos ele foi bem doídinho mesmo de ler. Foi uma história mto bonita de uma criança aprendendo a lidar com o luto e a dor. Acho q só q talvez as ações deveriam te um pouquinho mais de consequências, mas td bem.
