https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1034794.The_Professional
The best of these, which was also successfully adapted for the screen, was Bang the Drum Slowly.When I look at my virtual bookshelf I see that I have spent much more time reading books -- fictional and nonfictional -- about baseball than any other sport; basketball and football to a lesser degree; and practically none on the subjects of horse racing and boxing.
Already a notable sports columnist, in 1958 he published his first book, The Professional, a novel about boxing.All great books about sports -- fiction and nonfiction -- are always about more than sports, which is certainly true of both Bang the Drum Slowly and Seabiscuit.
In the novel, sportswriter Frank Hughes spends a month at a boxing camp in the Catskills as middleweight fighter, Eddie Brown, and his manager, Doc Carroll, prepare for a championship bout.
The fledgling TV industry takes quite a few hits as Heinz shows how it turns mediocrities into celebrities:	“Do you know that you may be sitting at the table right now with the last of the real professional fighters, because my business isn’t like your business where they tear a piece of bark off a tree and the first thing that crawls out they make into a – what do you call it?”	“I’m sure I don’t know what you mean”	“A television personality”, I said	“That’s right,” Doc said.
Being a boxing writer myself for many years, I can now totally appreciate it when people told me for years that “The Professional” by W.C. Heinz was the best boxing book ever written and one of the greatest novels of all time. There's even an introduction by iconic Elmore Leonard, where he credits Heinz as being one of his mentors. The book, written in 1958, is basically the life in the training camp of a fighter named Eddie Brown, who after a long boxing career, is finally getting a shot at a w
The book, written in 1958, is basically the life in the training camp of a fighter named Eddie Brown, who after a long boxing career, is finally getting a shot at a world's title.
The book is written from the third person view point of sportswriter Frank Hughes, who accompanies Eddie to training camp, trying to grasp the essence of a boxer's life while he's preparing for the biggest moment in his life.
Frank is no more than a fly on the wall, trying to help out Eddie and Doc, but at the same time keeping a detachment that will make his magazine article impartial and true.
NYTimes obits are good at conveying the person and not merely the dry fact about his or her life.
The latter the two of them wrote under a joint pseudonym and the title was "M*A*S*H."This review is of the novel "The Professional."The book was published in the early 1958 but in the later printing that I read there was an intro by Elmore Leonard in which E.L. gave credit to Heinz for much of his fictional technique, particularly dialogue.
I liked it so much I went on to read other Heinz books, and reviews of those to follow.--Paul
For example, he is talking with a cab driver who asks his opinion of a tv boxing announcer.
Today, I know a lot of people feel like David Letterman is a crazy uncle of theirs.
This also impacts how people fought as trainers learn to figure ways of getting their guy sellable for tv crowds.After the loss, the narrator proclaims that everyone lost the fight that night.
Doc's ways of training: careful, thoughtful and disciplined has been swept away in our culture by a wave of ignorance and hunger for flash.
I also enjoyed his portrayal of 1950’s New York blue collar culture.
But, from a technical standpoint, what makes it really amazing is that most of the book is in dialogue that creates the characters, and moves the action.
There's no shorthand to this book, every character is unique, and each has a style, rhythm, and vernacular that is true.
By the end of the book I felt like I had spent time on a barstool next to every one of them, and knew them as well as anyone with whom I'd ever shared whiskey and steak dinners.
That means well enough to have an opinion of, and some well enough to like.The Professional takes place in a man's world.
Great passages from an overlooked book about boxing:I think that if he had worn a burlap sack he would have looked good in it, but perhaps that is merely the way Eddie seemed to me.
You don't think a painter has to perform that way...a painter picks out a tough one for himself, and if it doesn't go and he looks bad in it, he hides it.
He can't paint.' Painters-great painters-have attics full of stuff they never show."Every man's in a fight, Eddie, no matter what business he's in.Well, somebody wins and somebody loses.
I really enjoyed this book right up until the last couple of incomprehensible pages.
I assume the narrator was implying that Eddie Brown had sunk back down into the anonymous mass of nameless men who had failed to achieve the greatness that they were more than capable and deserving of achieving.
But why would the elevator operator think that Smith, Jones or Brown were "odd" names?
If the scene would work better on screen than on the page, I think there's something missing: inner dialogue.
This will be an excellent book to parse with the writing professors.
There's a lot of style and substance to study while enjoying a great story.
After a ruinous right hand to the face, Eddie Brown stands before the press:"Got to go.""Go. Go where?
Fight.""You have to go to the Garden, Eddie?
Where are you now?""Time," Eddie said."Time?
What time?""Time," Eddie said, and then he pointed, staring.
He pointed over the heads of the kneeling and the standing.
He pointed with his right arm, his hand wavering a little.
The wall was bare."This precise jewel of a novel works its way, diligently, patiently, and painstakingly (just as Eddie's training), towards this devastating payload...
Such economy, a novel so bare, so exact.
A novel for novelists.
I think, at the time, I was reading both a lot of boxing writing and a lot of Elmore Leonard, who wrote the Intro for this edition.Upon rereading for my "The Sport of Fiction," I loved it just as much this go-round.
It's super tight and clean prose -- you can tell he was influenced by Hemingway, and then Elmore Leonard feels a bit like the natural continuation of that thread.
The entire book is a month of training at an upstate New York summer resort, prizefighter Eddie Brown training for his world championship bout.
Trappin' borin as fuck."I loved spending the boring month of training with Eddie.
I didn't like this book as much as I thought I would.
It's a book about training boxers told from the point of view of a sportswriter.
Heinz would know a lot about this since he was a sportswriter covering the boxing beat.
The best parts of the novel include the detailed accounts of the work that goes into training, the gruel of the daily life of a boxer.
But in the same way that I've never been a huge fan of Hemingway, although I can appreciate his mastery of the craft, I never developed a passion for the book.
Heinz is a contemporary of Nelson Algren's (both were highly regarded by Hemingway), and this book's themes are vaguely reminiscent of Algren: a boxer pulls himself out of society's lower class, gets a title shot and loses everything on one tiny, impulsive mistake. The narrative portions of this novel are extremely well-written, but ultimately the book bogs down from unnecessary or misplaced dialogue.
Old school boxing is my new thing. I did some research and found this bad boy. A novel about a Bronx fighter in the 50's or 60's. I think there is so much potential in the subject matter for vivid settings and interesting characters and I just don't think this book delivered at all. It made me wish that the material found its way into the hands of a seasoned novelist.
What a fantastic book that puts so many things in life in perspective from the eyes of Eddie's trainer breaking down characters into amateurs and professionals based on how they lived their lives, respected themselves and their professions.
Part of me hates myself for giving this book only three stars.
When the title fight finally came, and Eddie not only lost, but was knocked out in the very first round, it was like a devastating gut punch.
It's not lost on me of course, that THAT is exactly how W.C. Heinz wanted the reader to feel.
In the end, as much as I hate to admit it, I guess I am guilty (to some degree) of just wanting that predictable, wrapped-in-a-bow, happy ending, and I'll never get that with this book.
But if you have any experience playing or caring about sports, if you've ever spent time considering what Theodore Roosevelt referred to as "The Man in the Arena," you will enjoy this book.
The Professional is the story of boxer Eddie Brown's month of preparation for a middleweight title fight, as covered by the book's narrator, sportswriter Frank Hughes.
The story is filled with characters admirable and unsavory, learned and ignorant, anecdotes hilarious and heartbreaking, and insight and wisdom and poetry that emanate from author WC Heinz's decades of experience covering the sweet science as a sports columnist.
I really liked The Professional.
The narrator is a magazine writer who turns a keen, knowledgeable, unsentimental, affectionate eye on all the people and events in the month that leads up to the title fight.
He did, I realized as I read, have every connection to the morals and manners of the men in The Professional, World War II vets, many of them, who gave and expected civility, who never asked for anything they didn't earn, and who had hearts without being bleeding hearts.
See if you don't see some of your own father for the first time.And if you admire craft, read Elmore Leonard's introduction, then read the book through eyes newly opened.
At first I hated it.
I found the dialogue hard to follow and it turns out fiction won't change the fact that sports, to me, are boring.By the end I had changed my tune a bit.
I picked up the rhythm of Heinz's writing and was no longer lost on the sidelines of the conversation.
There were even some interesting tidbits learned about the sport.But I guess I just like happy endings.
You're telling me I went through all that - overcoming the initial dialogue issue and my disinterest in boxing - and it ended like THAT?
Would only recommend to a boxing fan.
Plucked this one from a historic list of great books - and I'm glad I did. The writing is crisp, relying on dialogue to shape the characters lending them more heft. I found myself in the room and hearing them talk, joke, strive and dream. Well done - an introduction to the world of boxing as well.
Slow build to a great finishWell, you can see why Hemingway liked this so much, seeing as how his influence is all over it. This book moves slowly through the training camp section, but the final third is all aching beauty. A great book.
Just a fantastic piece of fiction from one of the great sportswriters of the 20th century. The staccato dialogue, the perfect characters, the ode to Hemingway's style. I absolutely loved this book.
Fuck Tom White
A sort’ve stilted novel on boxing and personalities with an extremely distinct style.
He can undoubtedly write, and I found myself admiring a sentence here, an insightful aphorism there, but the cumulative effect of spending all of this time with Heinz's sports writer on the boxing beat is ultimately to get a lot of sizzle, and not much steak.
I suppose a lot of macho writers (Mailer, Hemingway, Leonard) assume a minimalist style is more suited to describing the tough guy milieu of boxing, but I've found the opposite to be true over the years, that the more colorful the writing, the better the boxing world is rendered and brought to life, in full vivid color.It should be noted that I'm definitely in the minority in being left cold by this book.
One of the best sports books I've ever read, and the only one since childhood Matt Christopher books that was fiction.The book follows Eddie, the contender, and Doc, his trainer through training camp en route to the Middleweight Championship fight in Madison Square Garden.
The third character, Frank Hughes is a journalist from Esquire who is writing an article on the training camp and subsequent fight.
The book is primarily about Eddie and Doc, the journalist is an observer who is largely removed from the action of the story.
The lack of detailed blow-by-blow descriptions were disappointing; the fight itself only spanned three pages.I would give this book a high recommendation.
I am pretty sure I picked it up because of the Ernest Hemingway quote on the cover, which claims that it's the best boxing novel he ever read, or something like that.
It's no surprise Hemingway liked this book, it's pretty straightforward yet detailed in its descriptions.
I am a little disappointed that the actual copy that I have is not represented on GoodReads anyplace, because it has a really good pulp novel-style cover.
I think the Hemingway quote appears even before the title does on the cover.
And then you realize that you were hustled all along and conned into believing this fight had any chance of being a fair fight.And the author does that so professionally, that it makes you think of how you were so easily fooled long time after you finish this book.This is not a spoiler.
In the book, the subtleties of boxing are celebrated, the commitment of a professional honored, the the stark realities of a singular way of life are revealed to be brutal and unforgiving, even to those very few who have the calling.
Much as the hero in the book is lauded for eschewing the trappings of flair and excessive showmanship in the ring, the foreword also celebrates the execution of a craft, in this case writing, stripped of unnecessary filler and glitz, leaving only a streamlined, forceful, and ultimately 'professional' narrative.
+The theme of TV muddling with a honest sport was great to read about but what was far more interesting was the theme of bias.
Everyone who thought Eddie was good was friends with him, we never got to hear from outsider’s who were swayed into thinking Eddie was good simply by watching him fight.
So it was great rereading this novel to look out for that.
+The conversations and characters really do drive this novel and thankfully they are all captivating and interesting, respectfully.
This is one of the few endings in a book that I think back to regularly.
What a masterful story about hard work, determination, and LOSS.
Throughout the book we are shown a man and his training team and see evidence of him at his best.
Unknowingly you begin to root for him, you begin to admire him.
And once we finally get to the fight the ending hits you emotionally as hard as the one that brings him down.I was dragging my feet for a few days whenever I remembered the finale of this book.And that's why I gave it 5 stars.
And Heinz does that with memorable, admirable characters.
