https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1931943.The_Adventure_of_the_Three_Gables
The story begins with a visit to Baker Street by Steve Dixie, a black man and a ruffian who warns Holmes to keep away from Harrow Weald.
Dixie’s boss is Barney Stockdale, and Holmes now realizes they must be connected with a case, which Holmes has just heard about from Mary Maberley, who lives at Three Gables, near Harrow Weald.Mrs Maberley’s son was an attaché who recently died in Rome.
The man readily agreed, then asked to buy all the furniture in the house, which struck Mrs Maberley as very strange.
Mrs Maberley has now decided not to take the offer, but the buyer is still determined to make a deal.
Leido en castellano edici{on Aguilar con DVD
© 2017 Goodreads Inc about us advertise author program jobs api our blog authors & advertisers blog terms privacy help switch to: mobile version The Adventure of the Three GablesThe Adventure of the Three Gables (Audio Cassette)by Arthur Conan DoyleChange editionMy rating:1 of 5 stars2 of 5 stars[ 3 of 5 stars ]4 of 5 stars5 of 5 starsClearBookshelves/tags:CloseChoose shelves... read currently-reading
I never thought I would get here, but the source material has made me hate Watson, who has always been such a favorite of mine in all adaptations. The original Watson is such a useless waste of space, who has nothing to offer but bigotry. Ugh!And the ending? Seriously, she did all that just to get a novel?
I like the story in general... and,"Meantime, lady," - he wagged a cautionary forefinger - "have a care! Have a care! You can't play with edged tools forever without cutting those dainty hands."
God! The things people for love and what not. The ending kinda surprised me.
The fourth short story in The Case Book of Sherlock Holmes by Arthur Conan Doyle. Someone offers to buy a house, and everything in it. Interesting, but dated.
One of my least favourite Holmes stories. Not sure what does it, but I think it has something to do with the characters of Susan and the band members
The Adventure of the Three Gables is once again another exciting addition to the cases. Aside from the persistent race bias, the story was very enjoyable and offered another "treasure-based" case this time around. Saucy relationships, extortion, elderly grandmothers? This has it all!
The sleuth investigates a house buyer who also wants to acquire every single item in the building.
While I liked the story in general, it contained some racist language and ideas which I was uncomfortable with. These were a bit off-putting and detracted from the experience.
Behoorlijk vergezocht.
very uncomfortable read due to the rascist stereotyping and sexism. I know it was at a time "when they didn't know any better" but I struggled with this Holmes story because of it.
Racist, sexist, bullshit which should never have been published.
Another typical Sherlock Holmes short story. There is no murder, instead there is a burglary and blackmail.
Again a fine story with fine ending.
11/23/14 3.5
