https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19469.The_Face_on_the_Milk_Carton
if you loved this book when you were in middle school, it sure as hell wasn't because you thought the literary style was articulate and composed.
everybody wants to find out they've been kidnapped when they're that age!
as i remember it, things got pretty melodramatic in this book, which is not to say that ms.
cooney didn't explore the complications of such a traumatic teenage discovery in a way i couldn't understand at that age.
i remember being very drawn in, and like, um, TOTALLY loving it.
by the time there was a cute boy and a radio show (third book?
thirtieth book?
so i had to read this for the "banned books" portion of my teen r/a class, and i am convinced that this wasn't banned by parents or terrible librarians, but by the students themselves who were like "noooooo , don't make us read this!!
i will reconsider this in the next chapter - and stop trying to have sex with me - jeez""ooh, i have found clues...but i will not think about these clues for three more chapters while i freak out about having been kidnapped and why are you on top of me again??
Excellent concept, not-so-excellent execution. The plot idea is absolutely thrilling - suddenly realising that your parents are actually not your parents, but that you've been kidnapped, not knowing how to react, who to turn to or who to trust.Unfortunately Caroline Cooney's didn't quite have the skills to pull it off, and therefore the writing seemed occasionally choppy and the emotions unrealistic.Still, the story itself was really interesting, so I definitely want to read the rest of the series.
From what I can recall, I enjoyed it a lot when I was 11 or 12 . I remember reading this book very quickly and being quite creeped out at the premise!
Toward the end of the book Janie has the thought that this situation is going to go on forever.
Then she makes Janie talk to them - 'Hi, I'm your daughter.' I sure hope her mom dialed the right number!I found this book to be extremely annoying.
But as Janie Johnson glanced at the face of the ordinary little girl with her hair in tight pigtails, wearing a dress with a narrow white collar--a three-year-old who had been kidnapped twelve years before from a shopping mall in New Jersey--she felt overcome with shock.
Are Mr. and Mrs. Johnson really Janie's parents?
I guess with the subject matter, people don’t want kids reading this.
Listen, I don’t want eight-year-olds reading this either.
It’s geared for teens and sheds light on a very real subject matter: child abduction.
Back in the late 1980’s, there was a lot of child kidnappings going on.
This story is based on a real kidnapping.
Filled with emotions and capturing what happens to the kids who got abducted, this is a great book.
Again, this is shedding light on something American parents had to deal with and important for teens to read about.My Rating: 5 stars#BannedBooksWeek
My favorite book as a little girl! I always thought it would be scary to see my own picture on a milk carton and wonder if I'd been kidnapped. My daughter checked it out to read and I can't wait to see what she thinks of it!
This book was about Janie Johnson, a high schooler who had lactose intolerance, serious red hair, secret admirers.
Every once in awhile, the factory of milk cartons put up an image of children who gets kidnapped.
And when Janie reaches out to try her friend's milk, the image on the milk carton was of her.
I like this book of its contrast, how while Janie was trying to figure out what happened to her, romance and true love also struck her.
I can somewhat relate to Janie because sometimes when I concentrate so hard on something and work so hard on something, my head hurts and burns and I really need someone there for me, to understand me.
Rather contrived plot,it struck me as being the literary equivalent of a paint-by-numbers picture. It was almost as though the author sketched an outline and then proceeded to fill in the blanks (I know English teachers always harp about pre-writing with an outline but who really does that?)Besides, milk cartons haven't featured photographs of missing children for years so it is unlikely the current teen audience would grasp the reference.
I can't believe I never rated this book! I read this in middle school and loved it!!!
We were having one of those Scholastic book orders that made reading so exciting.
I was too cool for a book with a pig-tailed girl on the cover.Some time later that year, this kid named Joey mentioned the book.
Again, part of me wanted to read The Face on the Milk Carton, but I really didn't have time for it.
I was going to get a Z shaved on the side of my head, work for Ferrari, and sing backup for Bobby Brown: I was way too cool for books.I wish I'd listened to Joey.
Was I captivated enough to read the rest of the books in the series?
This book was by far the best book I've ever read but has some adult content. Even though it does it is a great book. It's about a girl named Janie (Jennie) who sees her face from twelve years ago on the back of a milk carton saying she has been kidnapped. The whole book is about her finding out if her "parents" had actually kidnapped her and her finding her real family. I am reading the second book out of four now and so far it is amazing as well.
I loved this book!! It is about a girl who finds out she might have been kiddnaped as a little girl. it kept u on ur feet, begging for more and keeps you longing to turn each page!! Read it!
They both seen enough and soon came back to Janie's house and her parent that were worried sick because they were afraid that Janie might run away as their daughter had once done.So Janie decides to tell her parents about the ride to New Jersey.Later on Janie's parents decide that Janie should call her real parents and tell the the truth of what had really happen.At the end Janie's mom call to New Jersey and once a women picked up the phone, Janie said,"Hi. It's...
Phillip Ye 3/20/08 Mr. Nourok Writing Arts 903  Final Draft Book Review The Face on the Milk Carton By Caroline B. Cooney  At first, I thought this book was just going to be about a girl, who got kidnapped, and some detectives went and tracked down clues to find her. It made me think this book was no different than any other normal mystery book but I was terribly wrong. This book was a lot more than just a mystery!  This book is basically about a girl named Janie and she lives her life as an ave
Phillip Ye									 3/20/08 Mr. Nourok 								Writing Arts 903 				Final Draft Book Review The Face on the Milk Carton By Caroline B.
It made me think this book was no different than any other normal mystery book but I was terribly wrong.
This book was a lot more than just a mystery!
This book is basically about a girl named Janie and she lives her life as an average teenage girl.
One day, she sees a picture of her younger self on a milk carton.
That led Janie to question her past, the life she is currently living and even if her current parents are her biological parents.
This was so good that as soon as I finished reading this one, I ordered all the rest in the series! It's about a 15 yr old girl named Janie Johnson who while she was drinking a carton of milk at lunch stopped when she saw the missing child picture on it. It was her. This book follows her struggle as she tries to figure out what to do. I highly recommend this book! So good!
In my opinion this is a shallow and poorly written book.The book is about a girl named Janie Johnson, a sophomore in high school that sees her face on a milk carton, and realizes that she’s been kidnapped.
I don’t want to spoil the book, but I’m just trying to spare any future readers of this book the pain of reading this book all the way through to the end.
So eventually Janie calls her real parents, and I kid you not this is how the book ends, “‘Hi. It’s...your daughter.
Don't get me wrong, the stories can be excellent; but the whole idea of writing easier, shorter books for young people who don't feel like challenging themselves makes me sick.This book was not too bad, all things considered.
After I read this book I was in the car on the way to a doctor's appointment with my mother, and she asked me, "What would you do if you were Janie?" I honestly have no idea.I also liked the mystery.
Janie suddenly discovering that she was, somehow, a kidnapping victim was an excellent base for a story, and it was fairly well-executed.For the most part, the characters were cardboard.
Suspenseful, cinematic, tersely edited: a success for the reader.Would not pass a Bechdel test, however, and our female protagonist is barely proactive in her own story. The book's incessant obsession with boys is irritating at best; the indecision and angst feel appropriate, given the stakes, circumstances, and hero's age.I picked this up on a whim from a charity shop, and now I want the rest of the series!
Janie Johnson, a 15 years old girl, lived in Connecticut, United States.
One day, Janie recognized her picture on a missing persons advertisement on her friend’s milk carton.
The description read that Jennie Springs, a three years old girl, was kidnapped from a mall in New Jersey, United States.
The Face on the Milk Carton is a brilliant book.
The characters, especially Janie and Reeve, Janie’s boyfriend, are very interesting because they help each other out through their tough times, and their personality keeps readers attached to the story.
I believe that the main theme of The Face on the Milk Carton is fantasy vs.
The author had a good idea I suppose.I was actually looking forward to this book because of the premise.
But reality was a slap in the face.I seriously was bothered by the amount of time it took for her to confront her parents about the milk carton thing.
When she finally does (view spoiler)[ her parents were actually her "grandparents"!
I was incredibly surprised that this was on the summer reading list though, I seriously don't think the teachers have ever read it.
I'm seriously disappointed that a book like this made it to the summer reading list.
Although the plot made me raise my eyebrows - she sees a picture of her as a little kid on the milk carton as a "kidnapped" kid - I thought the story and the girl were just annoying.
She was whining and annoying - I have a teenager and she's got such a better head on her shoulders than this girl.I also didn't understand the characters - Janie and Reeve didn't seem to really like each other and suddenly they do and then suddenly he's yelling at her in the car.
This is the novel I've been teaching my high intermediate learners of English as a second language for the past eight weeks.
I've never read this author before, and I probably won't read anything by her again if given the choice.
I had a hard time relating to the main character/narrator in any way, but the book contains lots of new vocabulary for the students.
They were unhappy that there were no pictures.
Although I really didn't enjoy reading this, I did kind of like the way it ended.
I feel like Janie finally started to act like a person at the end.
This was fantastic!! I love the Lifetime movie and the book didn't disappoint! I'm very interested to continue in the series to see if more aspects of the movie are in them! Fast and great read!
this book is really good I can't wait to read the next oh and kids no younger than 9or10 should read it.
This book is sooooo boring and ends on a cliff hanger, which is the worst. Good idea, bad storytelling/writing. So much for trying to make a satisfying ending. I want to know what happens next but I don’t want to read the next book because the first one was so boring. Don’t read this book :(
She found out that her parents had a daughter and she ran away to New Jersey.
They went to New Jersey and found the house of her real parents.They observed the house and found out that Janie has three brothers.
They soon came back to janie's house and her parent or grandparents were worried sick.they were afraid that Janie might run away as their daughter had once done.Janie decides to tell her parents about the ride to New Jersey.
They decide that Janie should call her real parents and tell the the truth.
I'm not sure I like Janie.
I know she's all of 15 in this book and she finds out that she was probably kidnapped when she was three so her world is falling apart but her refusal to not ask questions while it eats her up inside is just freaking annoying.
Janie's world was falling apart in front of her and all he wants to do is make out and have sex.
And then when she can't focus on him and what he wants because she's so confused and doesn't know what to do he leaves her and starts dating some girl at school who has a reputation for being easy.
WHAT IS WRONG WITH ALL OF YOU?I was reading this last night and by Chapter 2, I was thinking, "I don't care what anybody says.
People are crazy.One, Cooney's writing style, similes and metaphors, being in Janie's head while she's spiraling into Crazytown--all great.
Two, anybody saying that Janie drives them crazy with how long she grapples with this before approaching her parents, etc., I don't think are fully imagining the situation.
Third, anybody saying Janie and her friends are very immature, I don't think remember high school/don't hang out with teenagers at all/or to give these people some credit, maybe they were way more mature than me and my friends.
This book was one of my go-to reads in my teens but I hadn't read it in years. While it's still good and I am a sucker for the "what would I do if that was me?" aspect of the story, if I'm being truthful I think it was the disdain Jane Johnson felt for her plain and common name that I really connected with. Well, that and my lifelong desire to have red hair. And Reeve, who wouldn't want a Reeve?
