https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/786082.The_Bondage_Breaker
This is a very misleading book concerning the power of Satan and work of Jesus on the cross.
Anderson's main thesis for this book--that born-again believers can be possessed by demons--is not supported by Scripture.
His understanding of sin and Christian's struggle to victory is understood by this thesis alone; thus, every believer needs to be delivered from some type of evil or they will never experience freedom in Christ.
This is a very formulaic driven process that releases believers from the power of evil.
Anderson's discussion on New Ageism is somewhat helpful but does not outweigh the negative.
yesterday when I was a little over half way done, I would have given this a two. Then today I wad commited to finishing it and I must say it has changed my life. The prayers at then end were so affirming and the forgiveness of self I am feeling is just amazing. Yesterday I thought that Neil was a finger pointer...today..totally different opinon. a must read to heal those irrational feelings from a spirtual place.
A must-have resource for the Christian looking for healing and freedom from past traumas, habits, and hang-ups that may be causing their walk with Christ to be be something it was never intended to be: burdensome and ineffective. This is not a 'self-help' book, but a way of reshaping your thinking with a solid scriptural basis, confronting lies that have held you down, and embracing your identity in Christ.
These issues, Anderson unveils, are a battle within self and they can be defeated by discipline and surrender to God. I love His boldness to step out and confront all the inner problems that we have and give it a spiritual solution.
I am a strong believer in the faith and this is one of the reasons I picked up this book because I wanted to be free from thoughts and self, but I truly understood afterward that I can only be free in Christ.
Awesome book. God will use it to convict you in areas of your sin so be prepared for that. Satan doesn't have to have a hold on your life. Let this book guide you to renounce your sins so you can be who God created you to be. If you are a Christian, you are a Child of God. Rest in that promise and read this book!
This book opened my eyes to the truth that I really am in the middle of a spiritual battle! Not necessarily for my salvation, as I'm already covered by Jesus Christ and my faith in Him, but for my daily victory in God. Satan's constant attempts to trip me up are meant to stop me from effectively doing God's work. No more! After reading The Bondage Breaker and studying the Bible I still struggle with spiritual darkness, but the light is much more visible now. This book has really changed my life forever!
He also does not treat his eisegesis to explain why we should seek freedom from demons if Romans 7 says that God allows Paul to maintain his thorn of flesh (this is the same issue a lot of charismatics have with wanting health/wealth/prosperity preaching but not the fact that the apostles or Jesus had none of what they're selling).The biggest problem I see with Anderson is his minority view that a believer can be possessed.
He is inconsistent when he says that demon possessed believers pull back even from his touch as the Holy Spirit resides in him.
I classify this book as spiritual warfare.
In the conflict between the flesh and the spirit, Christians must have an active faith to overcome sin.
Sometimes we feel defeated in our faith and slip further into darkness because we don't recognize the victory we have in Christ.
As Christians we have an adversary who wants to destroy our faith and it will win if we accept the lies about who we are in Christ.
I would give this book to a believer struggling in their faith and seeking to overcome.
Every single Christian on the planet needs to read this.
This part of his family history questionnaire really bothered me, though, and continues to bother me when I think back on reading this book three years later: "Was your father clearly the head of the home, or was there a role reversal in which your mother ruled the home?
So why does a father serve as the "head of the home," whereas a mother would "rule the home"?
I don't want to be too hard on him since I can see his point--nobody is healthy in a home with an overbearing, nagging Mom--but I don't think a home in which the man's word is law and the woman has no decision-making power is healthy either.
Confirmed my understanding of the very real spiritual battle that humanity on Earth is fighting. The evil one is real & so is the power of Father Son & Spirit. God bless all who read this book (& others!) Take it seriously. The spiritual battle is the unseen reality of the lives we live.
Which would be fine, but Anderson actually says several times that we shouldn't engage demons when we encounter them, then turns around and does the exact opposite in the examples he provides of "possessed believers" he's encountered.My problems with this book are many, but my three biggest problems with it are these:1.
For people already struggling in their faith, telling them it's all on them and God's not going to do anything to help them is maybe the single most damaging thing you could say.In addition to these three things, there is also the fact that the first time I tried to read this book, I kept having the thought "I need to cast out whatever demon is inside me," quickly followed by, "But I'm not demon possessed.
This book is such an eye opener, the prayers at the end are powerful, its full of revelation, light and in-depth examples of bondage and how to break it. I believe its a book that all Christians need to read because sadly, too much of us are not aware of the power we possess and the ability we have to withstand the attacks of the enemy.
The price on the cover of this book does not, by any means, proclaim its value. Based on the theme in James 4:7 that we are to submit to God and resist the devil and he will flee., this book explains that tHe power is given to us by the blood of Christ, but we must be proactive. Believe. Submit. Resist. Powerful book.
This is a powerful book, I have bought it many times to give away because of the great freedom it brings to know how to be free of bondages in your life. Read this book! Do not let the enemy stop you from becoming free!
This book was just what I needed! I have to say that I will need to read it again just because there was so much good information and direction in this book. I'm thankful to have found this book. A must read for every christian.
This book is one mom wanted me to read once she was done with it, so I've picked it up, and am about 4 or 5 chapters into it. So far, it's looking really great! I'll let you all know more once I have finished it myself.
Excellent important reading for any believer. Focus is on spiritual warfare and what it is - but this book isn't "flaky." Very soundly based on Scripture, filled with great exposition of Scripture, and very practical. After reading this one, I bought the youth edition to share with my sons.
Practical book about setting people free from demonic oppression and bondage. I learned a lot from this book. As a Christian it is useful to read at least one book on this subject, so as not to be ignorant.
Neil T. Anderson is gifted in helping you see strongholds in area of your life from reading this book and Boundaries is amazing as well. He also has a wonderful bible study on praying in the spirit.
Very good, very sound, very practical.
Life is so much more than what we see, and this book is willing to tackle them. It is a brave and bold endeavor, that exposes the darkness of strongholds.
I totally recommend this book, it has an honesty that it will release you from your chains of sins and make you see the true power of Jesus's sacrifice and His love for us sinners...
Exceptional book on spiritual warfare and bondage.
I’m no longer lying awake wondering why I can’t sleep, and I don’t wake up suddenly for no reason.
I am highly skeptical and critical of things like this, but the responses I’ve seen in my life cannot be denied.
I read this book for a Spiritual Warfare class I took for a Biblical Counseling degree.
For those reasons I can’t give it 5 stars.
But I highly recommend the book.
I thought that, having completed the Living in Freedom Everyday curriculum (twice) that this book would be more of a review than anything else.
It is excellent content that is able to focus more completely on how emotional bondage-- that is, the trauma and strongholds that thwart the healthy development and expression of the soul-- is rooted in spiritual bondage.
Anderson takes pains to express the full range of spiritual oppression and ground it in scripture.
He then provides a step by step guide for gaining freedom.
One could complete the steps alone, in a day, with concentration.
My Christian life in Christ is renewed.
I have a lot of strongholds and bandages broken due to other spirits or unknowingly practices not right with God. I am more grounded and free in Christ now.
I can remember Bible verses clearly and understand it better with the Holy Spirit.
Thank God for Jesus who redeemed me and bring me closer to God. Thank God for this book and author Dr Neil Anderson.
Praise the Lord for the 7 steps to help me draw closer to my christian lifestyle instead of the worldly lifestyle.
I am more confident in Christ.
I have been experiencing a less than ideal Christian life for a long time. In my search for the full and abundant life that Christ promises, I was given this book by someone in my church small group. After reading it and working through lots of counseling and prayer, I am convinced that freedom in Christ is something that most Christians, including myself, aren't experiencing. This book is worth an honest read and do work through the steps to freedom in Christ as they are powerful truths that you probably need to claim.
This was the book I needed. I was feeling trapped in my sin, like I couldn't break free. This book reminded me of my position in Christ, and helped me crush my fetters. Despite its reassuring nature, this book doesn't sugarcoat anything. It covers all the bases, from satanic influence to sexual sin. I would highly recommend this to anyone feeling like they will never be free from their sin - you WILL be!On a side note, I'm disappointed that I haven't come across a book like this in reformed circles. Everyone should read this.
Important study of how to truly be free in Christ. I appreciated the author's focus on understanding and believing the truth of our position in Christ rather than focusing too much on the means by which the bondage occurred. Stresses the need for the individual to choose freedom over bondage. I found the book at times an overreaction in some areas, but all in all it is a worthwhile read for any who struggle to be all that they desire to be in Christ.
Should make one believe in SatanI have a friend who has a 50 year old son who she thinks has demons but can’t think of a way to destroy them. He grew up a Christian but has been studying eastern mysticism. They live in different states. I hope she reads this and can get him help. It’s a good read for anyone. I was especially interested in the story of the woman with MS who really had demons.
