https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/351198.The_Ringed_Castle
A slight disappointment after book four, but I guess it was inevitable, this feeling of letdown, of burnout and emotional exhaustion after the the showdown in Istanbul between Lymond and Graham Mallett. How could any writer top that? How can even the irrepressible Lymond recover (view spoiler)[ after killing his own son in a game of chess with human pawns (hide spoiler)] ? The answer is you can't, you retreat, gather whatever wits remain available to you and you seek refuge in a place as far awa
It looks like Francis Lymond refuge from troubles is actually about to boil over in conflict and we will live again in interesting times under the expert guidance of Dorothy Dunnett.To help Lymond in his nation building project we have some old friends from the mercenary company he established in Scotland (Alec Guthrie, Adam Blacklock, Lancelot Plummer) - reliable officers of many military and civilian talents, and a couple of new faces (Danny Hislop and Ludovic d'Harcourt) who seem to be asigned the role of rookie apprentice and reflecting mirror on the character of Lymond, continuing the tradition of building the image of the hero through the eyes of his anturage and through his deeds, rather than his words.What these witnesses first notice is the major change in Lymond's demeanour, making him almost unrecognizable compared to the debonair scoundrel from the first volume: They were led, as was their due, by an active and distinguished commander.
I remember this book as being the one where you have to slog through a lot of Russian things to get to the "good" parts, which are Philippa coming into her own in the French, Scottish, and English courts.
Philippa's a much more compelling character than Lymond.However, on a less-Philippa-centric reread, the Russia parts are actually quite good and contain some of the meatiest sections of the book.
And all the characters start with "L." It's the best scene in the book, and one of the best in the entire series.
Another great book in the Lymond series.
I think he could drown a puppy at this point and I'd be like "Well...he's had a pretty shitty few years...."It was nice to have Crawfords back in this book, even though they came with a nice side of angst and sadness.
It was great watching her delve into court intrigue, Lymond's library, and the mystery of his parentage.
<3<3 Like all the other books there was a big helping of PAIN and terrible things happening and intrigue and twists and turns, a lot of which I didn't see coming at all.
The story relentlessly gathers momentum as events unfold, and what began slowly ends in an action-packed, fast-moving finale that, if not quite as heart-wrenching as the ending of Pawn in Frankincense, ends on an almost tragic note that does not bode well at all for the next, concluding volume of the Lymond Chronicles.The Ringed Castle, like the other volumes in the series, is a true historical novel: The characters are not modern people placed in front of a historical wallpaper to act out 20th century drama.
And a lot of what is going on concerns Lymond only indirectly; it may be all about him, but the action, the intrigue, the driving force, mostly comes from the great and mighty Philippa nee Somerville, his child-bride-on-paper, whom he has sent along back to the British isles while he has moved on to Russia, there to train and equip Ivan the Terrible's army.
As one does when one is a mercenary captain, sort-of-nobleman and stubborn Renaissance Man of whom no one is the boss.Philippa has landed on her feet, back home in England, by which I mean landed a position in the court of Bloody Mary.
Perhaps find an existence worth living.I thought The Ringed Castle was mostly filler the first time I read it, and I don't feel too differently now.
Dunnett plays the long game so well that it becomes easy to think of Lymond's interminable sojourn in Russia in isolation, not as a reaction to the horror of Book 4, or as a build-up to Book 6.
The book is still in possession of one of the greatest scenes of all time, and some of the strongest final 150 pages I have ever encountered.
Dunnett is the master of mature characters who still have so much to learn. The clues are so subtle as to what is really going on in each character's head that you can, as the people around them do, totally misread their motives and emotions. Until...the plot twists and you realize their real concerns and desires. The development of Phillipa's character alone is worth the concentration these books require. And, you soon realize that you're going to read the whole series again, more leisurely now that you know the overall plot, so you can concentrate on the incredible subtleties.
The penultimate book in the Lymond Chronicles moves at a markedly slower pace to begin.
The Scot lives a spectacularly eventful life in Moscow under Ivan the Terrible, and in England under a bloody monarch, Mary.
Young Elizabeth makes a few appearances and I'm looking forward to how she figures in Lymond's future in the last book.
Lots of hardship and some brilliant comic scenes too.
Much needed comic relief to give us some restful pitstops from such brutality and harshness.
She has matured, lives centre stage in Bloody Mary's court and is resourceful in unexpected ways...
The Ringed Castle begins book #5 in the series as Philippa returns home to England a very self assured young woman and Francis has hitched his wagon to the mysterious Guzel and heads to Russia to bring Tsar Ivan and his army out of the dark ages with the aid of Francis' highly trained mercenary corps.
What I very much enjoyed was the maturation of Philippa and she has become the perfect foil for Lymond, she matched word for word in all their verbal battles and was the highlight of the book.
Dunnett's dedicated fans seem to be split over this book: people either love it or hate it but personally this is my favourite in the series after Checkmate.After the heated and heart-crushing journey in Pawn in Frankincense, Lymond is in Russia, building an army for the increasingly-insane Tsar Ivan (the Terrible).
But no-one in Europe can leave him alone, not the people who love him like his estranged mother Sybilla nor those who hate him; and so Lymond is brought back to England where the fortress of his heart is suddenly breached, and no-one is more shocked than he.Lymond is one of the most complex characters you will ever meet in fiction, but a far cry from the average 'romantic' hero.
"The Ringed Castle", 5th of the Lymond Chronicles, is set in Muscovy, Russia.
Here in the cold, frozen, ice covered landscape, Lymond becomes Voevoda Bolshoia, supreme commander to the half-mad Tsar, Ivan Vasilievich.
In his burning desire to rid himself of all that has brought him pain, joy, sorrow and deep emotion, he is set to use all his gifts and talents to do anything necessary to become ruler and create his own destiny.
Dorothy Dunnnett's writing is excellent in her vast ability of making landscape come alive.
Her historical knowledge has depth and her ability to create characters, not without their human frailties, are real and believable.
The Lymond Chronicles books are quite possibly my all-time favorite books, or at least as an adult.
Along the way, he tangles with epic figures, both real and fictitious while confronting the darker side of both his own and his family's history.One warning: the first two books of the series are a bit slow in comparison to the remaining four, but it is definitely worth the time to get through them.
I also recommend getting a copy of Elspeth Morrison's The Dorothy Dunnett Companion, which annotates the myriad historic and literary references that are woven throughout the books.
While still enjoyable, this was probably my least favorite of the Lymond Chronicles that I've read to date. I rather felt like I was slogging through it just so that I would know all of the plot developments before I move on to the next one.
My mind is blown. Dunnett will be the death of me. It makes me so sad to think that I have only one book left!
These books have taken over my life. They are frustrating, sometimes incomprehensible, but totally engrossing. I have learned so much about life in 16th century Russia from this last book in the series. I would love to talk about these books with someone who has read them, but I don't think there are many who have any more. I very seldom read only one book at a time, but with these, I don't want to read anything else. One more to go.
Enter Lymond and a few select officers from his mercenary group of St Mary, funded by Guzel, the former harem mistress from Turkey.
But whether that someone is one of his own officers or a member of a British trading force led by the maritime navigator Richard Chancellor (one of the most delightful characters in this series) is a mystery that takes a long time to resolve.
In the meantime, Philippa Somerville becomes a member of Queen Mary's court in England.
In her spare time, Philippa sets out to unravel the history of Lymond's complicated family arrangements.
I think it suffered from a lack of a major villain, but perhaps that's just coming down off the high of the brilliant evilness of Graham Malett in the middle entries on this series.
It did excel in character development though -- Lymond was particularly well drawn in this installment, as choices he's made in previous entries continue to catch up with him.
There are some good scenes with his temporary(?) wife Phillippa, and there are people as usual attempting to nefariously kill Lymond from the shadows, but it lacked the clean punch of earlier installments.
In that vein, a few particular highlights, first and foremost Phillipa; compelling as a child, we watched her come of age in the Turkish seraglio, and now here she is a full blown woman who can match - and even best - Lymond at his own games, not to mention the wiley women of the English Royal Court (Queen Elizabeth even makes an appearance, which is awesome.) Richard Chancellor is a new and ingenious construction: solid and noble and intrepid.
Lymond's men of St Mary's, new (Danny Hislop, Ludo D'Harcourt) and old (Blacklock, Hoddim, Guthrie, Plummer) continue to enrich the pages.
Lymond's relationship with his family is a depth worth sounding over and over again, and though the members thereof take up very little space on the page, both Richard and Sybilla make very powerful appearances at key moments.
5th book in the Lymond series so read the other 4 first.
Run off to Russia with the Ottoman empire's top courtesan apparently.With the hindsight of history, helping Ivan the terrible form the regions most powerful army might not be the most socially responsible course of action, but to be fair Lymond's options are limited.Gruzel and him are a pretty formidable team.
Deeply gratifying without providing fan service, rich with history and description, The Ringed Castle might very well be the pinnacle of the series.The series as a whole proves more and more intricate with the first and second book providing an arc wherein Lymond is at odds with society--first Scotland, then France.The second and third books trace the relationship between Lymond and the de Guise family, while the third and fourth detail an epic, sprawling battle between Lymond and an incredible nemesis.
The fourth book depicts Lymond losing his humanity while the fifth shows him recovering it.
The fifth book in the very excellent historical series of The Lymond Chronicles.
What makes this book so compelling?
Well the chinks are starting to appear in the near impregnable armour of Lymond.
All is due to the very strong presence of his "wife in name only" Philippa.
It's satisfying to see Philippa come into her own here and match Lymond word for word.This is a wonderful book in it's own right.
Worthy characters, a convoluted and intriguing plot.
Perhaps more subdued than previous books, certainly not as "swashbuckling" in action but well suited to the events portrayed within the pages.
May 2018Huh, it's been ten years since I first finished the book.
No wonder the details were all hazy.
I could almost swear that I couldn't remember half of the things in this reread happening before.
I have a new appreciation for Diccon Chancellor this time around, and Danny has definitely grown on me.
Philippa is still the best.
♥March 2008I was glad to be back in England, that's for sure.
Russia dragged a bit.
And Lymond needs someone to hit him upside his head to knock some sense into him.
That did happen.
The man is mad, really.Oh Philippa.
This particular book of the series explores Lymond's darker side; all through, one wonders, "is he changing for good?" "Is this the new Lymond?" The author continues to twist and turn every portion of the narrative, while giving us a taste of time, place, and national character which seems incredibly well-researched. It is impossible to render such a set of fascinating characters in six dense books, without having some major personality changes and reverses of fortune. This one, set largely in Russia under Tsar Ivan, fascinates and educates. At the end, I could not wait to pick up Book Six.
I don't know how she did it, but this series gets better and better as it goes along. I cannot wait to tear into the next book -- although I will grieve when I finish it because there will be no more. Francis Crawford of Lymond has overtaken both Mr. Darcy and Laurie Lawrence as the male fictional character I'd most like to meet.
I started reading with some misgivings considering the setting (Russia, Ivan the Terrible) - I didn't want it to become some prejudiced description of an unstable ruler killing people indiscriminately.
But Ivan turned out to be no bloodier than Mary, Russia and England seen through the eyes of a foreigner are neither too good, nor too bad - they're just what they are at that moment of time.In fact, it being New Year and the weather in Moscow awfully mild, the novel about frozen snow-clad Muscovy was just in time.
Perhaps slightly less strong than the others in the series. Lacks the strong and vivid antagonistic characters of the earlier novels (the Tsar never quite leaps off the page). However, Philippa emerges as her own unique person, setting up the final novel.
I write this as I grapple with the usual Lymond Chronicles post-read haze of utter amazement, unabashed hero-worship (more than one), heartache, lack of sleep, bloodshot eyeballs, and what day is it?
But first I will bow deeply to Queen Dunnett and pledge my undying admiration, and while I'm down there do a few stretches to get my limbs working again.Alas, the final book looms and I will be devastated when it is all over, no matter how it wraps up.
It's not a bad day when the biggest decision facing me is whether I should start book 6 immediately or wait until I've got some of my wits back.
I've enjoyed this series so much. I'm on the final book and am already mourning the end of the journey.
Dorothy's writing is absolutely stunning in many of the Russia scenes.
She steals every heart at court, and comes in to her own entirely (and here we thought we couldn't love her more after book four).
I love how Dorothy prepares us for huge plot changes over the course of four books, but then when they actually occur we are somehow still blindsided.
I love the primacy of the horoscope throughout this series, particularly when coupled with the Renaissance and Early Modern Europe class I am currently taking.
I am going to wait until my winter break from classes to begin book six.
I was fully prepared for another dismal addition to the series, but this one was creative and interesting and introduced a whole slew of new characters including the young Elizabeth (not yet queen of England), Mary Tudor and many of her court.There are basically two heroes officially as of this book: Phillipa Somerville and Francis Crawford of Lymond (technically, I guess you'd have to call him an anti-hero).
Two major developments in this book: (view spoiler)[ Lymond goes to Russia to train the Tsar's army and arranges for the Tsar to do business with a bunch of English merchants (The Muscovy Company)where he meets another fertile mind in the person of Richard Chancellor, one of the merchants and the navigator of the merchant fleet.
