https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23354363-one-man-air-force
I enjoy first person accounts of history - this book has a lot of potential. Don Gentile was a great fighter pilot. He also served in the RAF Eagle squadrons and flew missions in the Spitfire, Thunderbolt, and Mustang. There is a great underlying story, and the voice is very authentic, but the book is not well written and is extremely short, almost the length of an extended short story.
Compared to the contemporary books of pilots like Robert S. Johnson, Adolf Galland, Johnnie Johnson, Hans Ulrich Rudel, Gregory Boyington and Robert L. Scott - this is a very brief book that really doesn't give you much but a quick few glimpses into what "Gentle" obviously considered the most important things he learned as a fighter pilot. It certainly doesn't compare to any of the works by the pilots that I have listed. It definitely avoids his grounding for stunting over an airfield in England and crashing.
Book, like it's subject, is gone too fast...Quick read, finished in one sitting. Interesting but left me wanting more!Oh what this country could do with a few more like Don... Tragic end for him.
Short and Choppy Not well written and not much of a story. Needed a good editor and a ghost writer. Abrupt ending leaves the reader hanging
With a team behind him Like to know what happened Mr. Gentile? Ending just left you hanging. You know what became of him after the war?
Too Short!Great description of war in the air over Europe. The author probably has a lot more to tell. His story is brief but his descriptions were excellent.
A good tale, but very short!This is one of the great stories from WWII. I wish the story has been more involved. A great man and pilot.
Interesting ReadFor a book about fighter pilots this book was good. But other than a very few dogfights we don't get a lot of detail.
Extreme Brevity This could have been a great book if the author had researched and included more background material to fill in the story.
great book, too short.
Is there a problem with this book?What I got was very good, but there were only 45 pages of it. I suspect there is some issue with the digital file at Amazon.
A Living HeroIt is unfortunate that only the living can tell their storied histories. At !east this story can speak for his !most comrades.
