https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1847704.Without_Seeing_the_Dawn
I have read heaps of books in Philippine Literature, and by far, this is indubitably the best 'perfect book' I've ever read.
After reading this delicate masterpiece, I regained a soft hum of pride for Philippine Literature, an electrifying surge of valiance, a respite from all the mediocre books I've numbly read and a gob of sympathy for the history of my country.
Sure, it was a cliche novel of World War II in the Philippines but there's just a heck a lot more to that, there's this engulfing feature that unites each page stubbornly, a magnetic pull that stops me from doing anything else so radiant and strong, it sucks my goddamn face into the book's brilliance .
this book is set on the world war 2 years in my hometown so i must read it.. the author is kinda overly detailing his descriptions..such a long novel and hard to read..but is historically significant.
I missed this book! it's been 16 years since I last read it. And it is good to have a flashback of our history. heart-felt book. =)
a surprising read. i never expected it. it was assigned reading but it tugged my heart as i went along the pages. in the end, i couldn'nt put it down and read it in one sitting.
This beautiful novel of fine storyline, crafted in such a way that elicits mixed and profound feelings while one could almost always without a hitch relate to the utmost struggles of every Filipino during the tragic Japanese occupation of the Philippines, World War II. I got stirred up to tears. Read on and you'll know what I mean!
This is one of the best books I have read when I was studying. It led me to appreciate and love the Filipiniana section of the library and gave me a sense of pride on our Philippine lit.Until now, I can feel the simplicity of life, the tragedy of war and the hope in love.
It is the story of the simple life of the people close to the soil in a certain “barrio” in the Panay Island where one can see the sweats of the farmers and their sons, diligently tilling the land with their carabaos, a place where one can hear the laughters of the children, the songs of serenades by the young men, and a place where one can feel the love and contentment of the wives to their families.
Because of that, Carding enters the guerilla and kills as many Japanese soldiers as a revenge to his loved ones.The book may end in a very tragic story but it makes you proud of being Filipino.
This was one of our required readings in college. Proud of myself for finishing this. :)
please i want to read it

Powerful novel first published in 1947 about life in a Visayan village -- where there is turmoil (because of love affairs, illness, bandits and family feuds) even before the Japanese invasion.
We follow it through the eyes of Carding as he grows from a young swain tending his caribou and wooing his sweetheart, to a war-hardened guerrilla fighter who drops morals, family ties, and -- almost -- his humanity -- to seek revenge on the invaders.
Amazing that it was written and published so soon after the war.
This was a requirement way back in college which started quite slow and ended with a bang.It tells a story of Carding, an Ilonggo, his ups and downs, and his village's fall amongst Japanese soldiers during WWII.Moving... Amazing...
i Love it
i want to read this !
One of my favorite books ever! Tells us of how life was during the war. Touching and a must read!
read this
ok.
frfgrthh
abc
awesome
good
one of a kind story. two thumbs up :)
