https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/393601.Hitchcock
As a matter of fact, I happened to be sitting next to Joseph Cotten’s wife at the premiere of Rear Window, and during the scene where Grace Kelly is going through the killer’s room and he appears in the hall, she was so upset that she turned to her husband and whispered.
There was discussions about filming that movie in color instead of black and white, but lucky for us Hitchcock decided to stick with black and white.
Hitchcock explains his views of his leading ladies.Hitchcock: Sex on the screen should be suspenseful, I feel.
Tra le altre cose che ricordo c’è che dovevo incunearmi sotto le fondamenta per fare non ricordo cosa: ma ricordo bene che il mio boss, Pavel, mi disse di stare attento ai procioni, avrei potuto imbattermi in qualcuno di loro, hanno unghioni e possono essere aggressivi (sui procioni-raccoons potrei aprire un capitolo a parte, ma mi sembra d’aver già divagato abbastanza).Così, quel martedì 29 aprile 1980, all’ora di pausa, apro il giornale e apprendo della morte di Hitch.Sono stato fortunato: qualche suo film sono riuscito a vederlo al cinema, uno o due freschi d’uscita, altri recuperati nei cineclub e cineforum e sale d’essai e terze visioni e circuiti Arci e…Pochi giorni fa, al Pacific Film Archive, maestosamente rinnovato, ho visto in una sala gremita il documentario di Kent Jones intitolato Hitchcock/Truffaut che racconta la nascita di questo libro.
Some critics (of this book) have indicated that Truffaut was too kind to Hitchcock, that he agreed too readily with his opinions, that he couched his questions gently, but what the heck?
Because they two often DO disagree on certain points of film-making and story-telling, but they do so respectfully, without rancor, I mean - like gentlemen?But the great thing about this record of Hitchcock's opinions, ideas, and thoughts on both the stories he told through film and HOW he did this, including mistakes he felt he made and how he'd 'fix' them, if he could, was the fact it even exists at all.
This book will teach you more about the art of film making than 4 years (and $200,000) at NYU will.
کتابو خیلی وقت پیش خریدم و منتظر بودم تا یه موقعیت مناسب بخونمتا اینکه با مستند محشرHitchcock/Truffautمواجه شدم و دانستم که مرا دیگر از او گریز نیست!------------------------------------این کتاب به انجیل کارگردانان معروف است ولی به نظر من این کتاب، آخرین معجزهیِ آخرین پیام آورِ سینمای کلاسیک است. هرچیزی که هیچکاک توصیه کرده است تا قیامت حلال است و هرچه او ممنوع کرده تا قیامت حرام!
کتابو خیلی وقت پیش خریدم و منتظر بودم تا یه موقعیت مناسب بخونمتا اینکه با مستند محشرHitchcock/Truffautمواجه شدم و دانستم که مرا دیگر از او گریز نیست!------------------------------------این کتاب به انجیل کارگردانان معروف است ولی به نظر من این کتاب، آخرین معجزه‌یِ آخرین پیام آورِ سینمای کلاسیک است. هرچیزی که هیچکاک توصیه کرده است تا قیامت حلال است و هرچه او ممنوع کرده تا قیامت حرام!
This book is about the two film directors Hitchcock and Truffaut. It is a wonderful book and Jeffrey has written a superb review today on this.So my advice is to read Jeffrey's review and then purchase this book. It is an historical document of the film world.A gem to have.
In realtà la cosa più interessante è proprio risentire la voce di Hitch che, parlando di Psycho, dice a Truffaut: -cito un po’ a memoria- “il soggetto era orribile, i protagonisti insignificanti, i personaggi assenti, me è un film che appartiene ai registi a me e a lei” come dire il film è e deve essere una creazione artistica interamente nelle mani del regista!
Tutti e due i registi emergono dal libro come giganti, ma l'aspetto che ho trovato più sfizioso è la maniacale attenzione al pubblico e al successo di botteghino che aveva Hitchcock e la sua dichiarazione quasi ingenua sulla volontà di utilizzare i luoghi comuni per rafforzare la comprensione delle immagini: se il film è girato a Parigi si deve vedere la Tour Eiffel.
بيتحوَّل بشكل مُدهش لمرثيَّة عَظيمة عن العَجَز والشيخوخة- أهميته السينمائية: إن من أكتر الحاجات اللي بتعلّم بشأن السينما هو رؤية صناع الأفلام وهما بيحكوا عن أفلامهم، كان بيفكَّر في إيه لما صور المَشهد الفلاني، أو خده بالزاوية الفلانية، ليه قطع القطعة دي هِنا، هيتشكوك شخص غني جداً بالقيمة، الطريقة اللي طوَّر بيها السينما وكان بيكتشفها، في مُقابل حِفاظه الدائم على خط موصول مع الناس، ده كان عظيم جداً ومُفيد جداً- تجربة القراءة: إني كُنت بَشوف الأفلام قبل ما أقرا الأجزاء اللي تخصَّها، أو أرجع للمشاهد اللي هو بيتكلم عنها، ده خلَّاني أقرا الكتاب في قرابة الشهر، بس كمان كان مُمتع لدرجة لا تُوصَف- الحوار بيتوقف في سنة 1964، قبل 16 سنة تقريباً من وفاة هيتشكوك، وفي الطبعة اللي قريتها..
In fact, this book should be a primer for all film classes; once you've read it, you've got a good foundation in how to make a movie.Now I'm not talking about the technical aspects of moviemaking -- lighting, sound, working with today's actors unlike yesterdays stars (who weren't really all that less difficult to deal with), things like that.
His famous quote, in fact, is -- "It's only a movie." But by the time you've finished reading this extended version of the first edition of the book, you'll see that the medium is also one that is fit for artists who truly understand it.
Alfred Joseph Hitchcock (1899 - 1980), François Truffaut (1932 - 1984)عنوان: سینما به روایت هیچکاک؛ اثر: فرانسوا تروفو؛ با همکاری: هلن جی. اسکات؛ مترجم: پرویز دوائی؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، انتشارات صدا و سیمای جمهوری اسلامی ایران، 1365، در 288 ص، مصور، عکس، شابک: 9644351886، شابک چاپ چهارم: 9789643769369؛
Alfred Joseph Hitchcock‬ (1899 - 1980), François Truffaut (1932 - 1984)عنوان: سینما به روایت هیچکاک؛ اثر: فرانسوا تروفو؛ با همکاری: هلن جی. اسکات؛ مترجم: پرویز دوائی؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، انتشارات صدا و سیمای جمهوری اسلامی ایران، 1365، در 288 ص، مصور، عکس، شابک: 9644351886، شابک چاپ چهارم: 9789643769369؛
یقیناً یکی از خوندنیترین گفتوگوهایی بود که درباره سینما و فیلم و روایت خوندم تا حالا. هیچکاک تو این گفتوگو تقریباً تمام فیلمهاش صحبت میکنه، پس اگر فیلمها رو دیده باشید بیشتر لذت خواهید برد ازش. جز این هم کتاب درجه یکی است؛ هیچکاک از شگردهاش صحبت میکند و توضیح میده که سینما چیه و زبان سینما چگونه است، درباره روایت و شیوههای روایت صحبت میکنه و... تروفو هم در نقش یک هوادار سینمای هیچکاک و عشق سینمای او پرسشها و نظرات خودش رو مطرح میکنه
یقیناً یکی از خوندنی‌ترین گفت‌وگوهایی بود که درباره سینما و فیلم و روایت خوندم تا حالا. هیچکاک تو این گفت‌وگو تقریباً تمام فیلم‌هاش صحبت می‌کنه، پس اگر فیلم‌ها رو دیده باشید بیشتر لذت خواهید برد ازش. جز این هم کتاب درجه یکی است؛ هیچکاک از شگردهاش صحبت می‌کند و توضیح می‌ده که سینما چیه و زبان سینما چگونه است، درباره روایت و شیوه‌های روایت صحبت می‌کنه و... تروفو هم در نقش یک هوادار سینمای هیچکاک و عشق سینمای او پرسش‌ها و نظرات خودش رو مطرح می‌کنه
كتاب رائع عن العزيز أتش، ربما لم أشاهد كل أفلام هيتشكوك ولا حتى نصفها ولكني واقعة في غرامه بالفعل من أول فيلم، وفي هذا الكتاب خطوت معه كل خطوة في رحلته السينمائية، وكواليس كل فيلم قام بإخراجه بصحبة أسئلة ذكية ومستفزة أحيانًا من فرنسوا تروفو المخرج والناقد.كتاب ممتع، ومسلي ويفتح الشهية على الحياة، وأعانني على فترة سيئة للغاية، وعلى الرغم من تبلل غلافه لسبب غير معلوم إلا إني سأحمل دومًا له ذكريات رائعة
«Entender mejor el cine»Mi último artículo que habla, entre otros, de este libro.http://theessentialbooks.com/es/blog/...¡Espero que os guste!:)
En esta obra se expone con una claridad (muy agradecida todo hay que decirlo) la metodología y técnicas que Hitchcock utilizó durante el medio siglo que estuvo dirigiendo y que nos han permitido disfrutar de algunas de las mayores obras de arte del siglo XX, como "Rebeca", "Vértigo", "Con la muerte en los talones", "La ventana indiscreta" o "Náufragos".El cine de Hitchcock tiene como único objetivo llenar las salas de cine haciendo disfrutar al espectador tanto de manera intelectual (impidiendo que sepa lo que va a pasar) como emocional (introduciendo elementos violentos, humorísticos y sexuales).
4) Finalmente, aprende-se muito sobre cinema, sobretudo nesta perspectiva de que um cineasta é um trickster (não eram apenas Méliès e os Lumière), alguém que procura atingir um efeito visual com coisas materiais (não estamos aqui ainda no tempo do digital) e que só a posteriori podemos falar de interpretações e narrativas.
There’s a brilliant moment in Truffaut’s introduction in which he explains why suspense, far from being a mere trick or incidental effect, is in fact of the essence of cinema, indeed, of narrative itself: “Suspense is simply the dramatisation of a film’s narrative material, or, if you will, the most intense presentation possible of dramatic situations.” Which is one reason, perhaps, why Hitchcock, the wonderfully perverse genius behind Rear Window, Vertigo, Psycho, The Birds and a host of other classics, was the definitive film director; and this long, large-format, lavishly-illustrated book is the ultimate celebration in book form of his life and work.
At the height of his career, many critics saw Hitchcock as a commercial director whose films thrilled audiences with their suspense but weren’t meant to be taken seriously.
Never have I read a book so full of enlightening information about the film-making process.
I learned so much from both directors on how to build suspense, expert use of the camera as storyteller and how stories are adapted.
This book is chock-full of these kinds of insights.
And for Hitchcock fans, myself included, there are lots of behind-the-scenes trivia bits that will delight and inform.
Bir defa okumakla bitmeyecek bir kitap. Çünkü Truffaut'ın filmlerden sorduğu sorular o kadar detay içeriyor ki uzun zaman önce izlemiş olmak yetmiyor. Belki de filmler kitapla birlikte izlenmeli. Diğer yandan Truffaut'ın zaman zaman Hitchcock'un bile hatırlayamadığı şeyleri sorması, hatırlatması hayranlık verici. Hitchcock'u veya sinemayı seven herkesin okuması gerektiğini düşünüyorum.
Truffaut intervista Hitchcock. Da leggere. Leggetelo.
"كيف كان علينا أن نتعامل مع شيخوخة رجل عظيم؟"
Always heralded as one of THE great books on cinema and the best, supposedly, on Hitchcock, these documented interview sessions with the great French director Francois Truffaut and Alfred Hitchcock is as good as reported.
At times Truffaut gets a bit stuffy and opinionated and corrective of the choices Hitchcock made in his great work and at times, it appears, that Hitchcock gets a bit ...
Hitchcock cared ONLY about the visual and the set pieces, while the actors were just there to move it along.
Even so, his work is some of the most memorable pieces of cinema experience in history.
Me lei este libro por una asignatura del master y, por como me lo había vendido mi profesor pensé que me diría más sobre el cine fuera de Hitchcock, no solo sus películas y ya. Aun así ha sido muy interesante ver las películas a través de los ojos de Hitchcock y como solía proceder a la hora de dirigir.
Este es uno de esos libros que me recomendaron leer en varias asignaturas de la universidad pero nunca llegaba a hacerlo. Ha tenido que ser ahora, unos 6 años después de terminarla, cuando por fin me anime a adentrarme en él. Mi principal miedo era que me resultara pesado o aburrido, pero si hubiera llegado a imaginar que se me haría una lectura tan interesante lo hubiera leído antes. Sin duda, me espera un maratón de películas muy pronto.
Perhaps this is partly owed to the fact that he made more commercial films than did many of those other directors who I refer to, and knew, thus, how to accept criticism (though Truffaut offers much more praise than negative criticism) and play the publicity game.Nearly every page of the text is sprinkled with pictures from Hitchcock’s many films (472 photos in total), particularly to illustrate images that are discussed in the course of these interviews.
These conversations illuminate how important the process of film-making is, and how Hitchcock, during his life, seemed constantly concerned with making his films dynamic and significant to the larger body of what film was and could be.Books like this matter because they show new artists what is possible, and they can inspire the next generation to see more from the camera than just the possibility to take pictures.
I enjoyed these interviews, because the exchange between Hitchcock and Truffaut really allowed for an interesting examination of cinema as an art form and how the artist crafts their style and voice through their work.
The definitive examination of the definitive movie career.
Plus a beautiful book in its own right, with glorious photographs and stills.
A wonderful birthday present that i devoured from beginning to end.Truffaut is an amazing author.
He worships AH, but doesn't let that get in the way or ruin it.
It's amazing to witness Ah let his guard down, and thus enable both to critically examine every film he made.
A master in full flow shares with the Sorcerer's apprentice.
This book is entertaining and informative, and you realise so much of what you know about AH's art, interests, humour and dark-side comes from this.
This is a fantastic book if you're a Hitchcock fan, or if you're interested in storytelling or in the art of filmmaking. In a series of interviews by Francois Truffaut, Hitch is completely candid about his process, his intentions and what he perceives are his successes and mistakes. A word of warning, however, if you'd like to preserve in your mind some of the magic of filmmaking, as Hitch is basically revealing his tricks.
Απαραίτητο βιβλίο-εργαλείο για αυτόν που αγαπάει τον κινηματογράφο. Ολες οι ταινίες του μεγάλου σκηνοθέτη, τις σχολιάζει ο ίδιος και ο Φρανσουά Τρυφώ. Στις τελευταίες σελίδες όλη η φιλμογραφία του αλλά και σε ταξινόμηση οι αναφορές του Χίτσκοκ σε ταινίες και σε ανθρώπους του κινηματογράφου
I will always love him and I really hope I will get to watch all of his movies.
igual si digo que lo he terminado leyendo en diagonal me echan de la carrera
