https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/213647.The_Warrior_Heir
But that paragraph just isn't enough to elevate the book to "good" status.These issues could be ignored, maybe, if something else made up for it like the plot or a fascinating insight into anything about our world or really cool superpowers.
More then once while reading the book, I realized that nothing had happened for far too long other than a laundry list of how the characters were passing the time.
And who can say things like, "The War of the Roses has been done.
This was enjoyable but not the best.
It's hard not to compare this to Chima's other series which is PHENOMENAL and more strictly fantasy than a mix of fantasy and urban fantasy.
I liked the characters but felt like they lacked depth and development.
Jack did grow and change a bit, but not a ton in the area of character.
It was also pretty predictable but I kind of expected that.
Ultimately I feel like a lot more could've been explored, which it probably is in the other books in the series!
2.5 stars? Ehh I have a feeling I'm giving this a higher rating just because I love the author's other series so much. This didn't feel quite as well developed... the characters and everything kind of fell flat for me and I was mostly bored. That could also be because I'm not particularly into urban fantasy, though. I think I was hoping this would be like the ABOSAT spinoff of Falling Kingdoms where there's still a lot of the author's other magical world with princes, castles, swords, and/or dragons. But that was sadly not the case.
The Heir Trilogy, which received great reviews, but somehow never entered the national consciousness, is Chima's first published work.
Another story that really gets me excited with inventive concepts and clear imagery, these are really a great read.The Warrior Heir is the first novel of the trio.
Good for Jack.
Starting small-scale in a little town, The Warrior Heir quickly lives up to the dramatic title--we finish off in an unbelievably intricate world of magic and politics.
(It's like Rome, with kilts instead of togas.)The players come off remarkably well, especially considering the great distance from which Chima is writing about her teenage characters.
(3.5 bumped up to a 4, because goodreads is lame and won't give us half stars.)
My review is more like 3.67 but I've rounded up because with perspective I have a lot of faith in where this series can go and I'm excited to pick up the second book - here's my full booktalk/ discussion : http://youtu.be/MOM6KgtUFbs?list=UUOk...
I'm re-reading this series, and while I enjoyed this book, I'm not sure how to describe it.It's not that Chima isn't a good writer, it's just that it seems (to me) that the plot is better than the storytelling.Does that make sense?Ok. Well, I guess what I mean is that I'm more invested in seeing what happens in the end than I am in the characters.
<--Long story.Anyway, it turns out, that is just the beginning of his problems...I have to admit, even though I'd read this already (6 years ago), I couldn't remember the first thing about what was going to happen next.
3.5 stars. I liked this book despite reading lots of books that have the same basic plotline:Hey! I'm a teenager. I've just found out that I'm a __________. People are after me! I better figure out to use my (insert cool weapon and/or power) so I can take down the (insert bad guys)! So, really, the author must've done a pretty good job of writing a good story and a fast read or I would not like it as much as I did/do! I will read the next two in the trilogy.
WOO WHAT A THRILLING ENDING! Can't wait to discuss ALL THE THINGS with the Booksplosion peeps at the liveshow tomorrow! It's Aug 2 at 7:00 PM EST on Christine's channel (http://www.youtube.com/polandbananasB...) WHO WILL BE THERE?!
4.5 stars
Sixteen-year-old Jack was supposed to be a Wizard but ended up a Warrior, which is pretty rare and starts causing problems for him.There are a lot of tropes and cliches here, but I still liked it, if that makes sense.
It’s like Chima put them in because they were necessary and spent as little time polishing them as possible.The ending was rather deus ex machina; I was hoping for something sneakier.
(It sounds like he’s holding his breath!) So every 3-4 minutes, you hear deep breath-silence—and more silence in between.
It's a solid fantasy tale that expounds on the life of a boy who was meant to be a wizard, but as a child had a warrior stone placed in his heart and hidden from a destiny that was sure to catch up with him.The prologue begins exciting enough, but it might be confusing for some readers because it's not from the perspective character's POV.
I thought Aunt Linda was rather kick-awesome for her part in the story, probably even more so than Jack himself at times (who seemed a little too comfortable with his powers for someone who knew nothing about his destiny).
It was an interesting world and there's nothing like a "normal boy isn't normal he's actually an important player in a battle that he must now face in a different world full of magic and warriors!" story line.My biggest problem with the story was the writing: it felt very flat and one dimensional.
At points it almost felt like I was reading middle grade - which is absolutely fine - but I would have liked something a bit more sophisticated and complex.
I'm also not huge into urban fantasy, however, so this probably isn't my best genre to read about..
Though it felt young, more middle grade than young adult, Warrior Heir was a quick, enjoyable read.
Unfortunately, the main characters fell flat, and the ending felt too easy.
I still plan to read the sequel, since there's a new main character.
The story was good, the premise, and the world building, but the main character needed a personality.
All Jack does is react to things and dispite plenty of time spent establishing his every day life, we know nothing about him as a person.
(Besides that he likes soccer and Ellen.)Of Jack's two best friends, Fitch was decent, but Will has as much personality as Jack, none.
The Warrior Heir is a fantasy story which is set in the contemporary world.
Jack has never forgotten to take his medicine but on the day of the soccer team tryouts, he does just that and his ordinary small town life suddenly begins to change.
He was born a wizard but his wizard’s stone was missing – this is what enables the gifted to manifest their powers.
But who is after him and why is a mystery he has to discover.This book was very much a traditional fantasy – the world of the Weirlind was reminiscent of medieval England with the addition of magic and enchantments.
DNF at over 50% I'm sorry. I just can't seem to get into this book like the other series. I don't normally DNF anything, I try to get through it... But I was bored to tears. TO TEARS.
Okay, this book is officially the last thing by Cinda Williams Chima that I will read.The funny thing is, I'm not trying to sound mean or whatever (haha, like in the old days!).
I really didn't like the Seven Realms books, but that was mostly because I hated the characters.
That was really clunky and made the overall pacing slow down...Also, I can't stand it when 3rd person books told in the perspective of a main character refer to any parent/relative by their first name.
I must have missed the distinction, because Chima kept throwing around all three words randomly.There were so many little issues that distracted me away from the overall story, which...wasn't all that exciting.
This is Highlander meets Buffy, and a lot of fun! A centuries old Game is played out involving warriors, wizards, sorcerers, enchanters and soothsayers. I enjoyed this very much and look forward to reading the next two: The Wizard Heir and The Dragon Heir. I guessed several of the surprise twists long before they happened, but that didn't diminish my enjoyment of the story.
The world in which the story was set has a pretty sound set of rules, and the magic is very exciting.That said, I felt like I was reading a draft version at times.
Sometimes it seemed the author was moving characters into place for plot threads to move forward, even if those placements were inappropriate.
There were also a few weird technical issues with the story (plot holes and timing problems).
The main character hides outside in the alley with his friends long enough for the breeze to ruffle their hair, then they say, "it's about time to go." It was oddly jarring.
I have a hard time getting past the writing errors though.
3.5 Stars!While not as good as The Seven Realms (yet!), this was still thoroughly enjoyable!
I ended up dropping it after only a few chapters because it seemed like your usual run-of-the-mill, fantasy-for-the-sake-of-it, cliche riddled, ultimately just bad novel.
And worst of all, there was nothing to keep me hooked, nothing to hint that it might get better.Of course, it's possible that I was just too judgmental, seeing as I was ill at the time and wanted something to make me feel better, and the plot, from what I'd read of it, seemed fairly promising, so let's just say this: if you're looking for a gripping fantasy that sucks you in, dazzles you, and keeps you turning pages until the very end - this isn't it.
I love the Seven Realms series, I read it after I read the Warrior Heir, and the style is so different.
I found him very cookie cutter, he didn't feel like a real person.
the author tried to create a world unknown to most people, but to me it felt just like there were a bunch of random wizards and other magical people walking around for no reason.
There was also no real enemy, it was more like every wizard is evil, and thats it.This is just my personal opinion.
But, in my opinion, the seven realms series is much better.
Jack is a normal kid, in a normal neighborhood, with normal friends.
until one day at soccer tryouts, he nearly kills another kid.
After school at soccer tryouts, he almost killed a kid with an unexpected thrust of power.
Soon, he meets a wizard and an expert in warrior skills and starts to train Jack for the annual tournament at Ravens Ghyll.
I love The Warrior Heir because it has a lot of suspense, action, and adventure.
The Warrior Heir is a catchy, page-flipping, suspenseful, and an excellent paced book.
I recommend this book to anyone who loves active, suspenseful, adventurous books.
It had a lot of plot twists that were verging on dumb, like "Oh guess what?!
I'M A WIZARD!" and then somebody else turns around and says "HEY GUESS WHAT!!
I'M A WIZARD TOO!!" I'm like, "Okay ...
so who ISN'T a wizard?" O.o By the end – which was sorta Hunger Games-esque – I was getting a little bored.
Parts were exciting, and the plot was original.
But I would have liked to see more character development; I found the main character in particular a little on the dull side.
But, over all, it was okay.
3.5 starsThis was quite good, and my kids enjoyed listening to the audiobook, but it didn't have nearly the complexity and depth of The Seven Realms series. That said, it was compelling enough that my kids and I are continuing the series.
DNF at 26%I had higher expectations going into this book, because I heard amazing things about this author. Guess I'm going to read her seven realms series in the future, but for now, this book is not for me.
Jack doesn't realize he is Weirlind, part of an underground society of magical people, and when he sent Lobeck flying into the soccer net, the magic he released acted as a signal to others around him.Jack, destined to be a wizard but born without his stone, was saved by a leader of the White Rose.
Now, with a warrior stone behind his heart, he is meant to fight for the White Rose in a magical tournament - if he survives until his magic fully manifests.Jack is one of the last warriors and both the Red and the White houses want him to fight for them.
“Just remember who you are... The world will try to change you into someone else. Don't let them. That's the best advice anyone can give you.” “The Warrior Heir is a contemporary fantasy and coming of age story. It is the classic tale of boy who finds out he has a gift and learning how to hone that gift. Jack is a likeable character, he is kind and a good friend. His family and friends have kept him safe his whole life but now he has to learn how to use his gift before he is discovered and poss
This is a dangerous world for Warriors as they are trained to be used in a battle to the death much like the roman gladiators were.
But I was surprised by the resolution of the story overall.This is a good book if you like fantasy and don’t mind a few lulls to get to the end.
Fantasy isn’t my overall favorite genre so while I liked it, it wasn’t the end all be all.
I will give the next book in the series a read though because I am interested in the world and want to see what happens after the events at the end of the book.
I enjoy all kinds of fantasy but damn I'm just so in love with Chima's skill at world developing from Seven Realms that I was hoping for that here.
I enjoyed the characters, but they felt kind of flat to me.
I'm still going to continue this series eventually because I like the magic system, but this could've been better in my eyes.
Everything felt wrapped up at the end with this and something I was expecting to be a series problem was solved pretty quickly in the end.
Overall decent, but Seven Realms is totally better.
I was writing a small excerpt for this book/series in my group Simply Reading YA Book Club and thought I'd post it here until I do a full review of this book!Each book in this series takes on a new POV.
This takes place in our world just with a magical twist.
In this world, magic wielders are considered to be in different guilds.
Guilds like enchanters, wizards, warriors, sorcerers, etc.
The first book is about a young warrior named Jack.
Jack is in extreme danger of being murdered by wizards or being murdered in a tournament to the death, put on by wizards.
