https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/762040.Sergeant_York_and_the_Great_War
This 1998 copy included some black & white photos and was edited by Richard Wheeler.Most U.S. citizens have little knowledge of America’s involvement in World War I as it was not a part of their educational curriculum.
The impact of this black & white movie remains so strong that Cooper’s daughter, Maria Janis Cooper, was selected in 2011 to the Board of Trustees of the National World War I Museum.This firsthand account offers additional insight into York’s mind.
Throughout life York’s knowledge, admiration and appreciation for nature remained as strong as his family roots.
I started this expecting a detailed, technical account of Sergeant York's experience in the War...
There was a whole litter of us and we jes sort of growed up like a lot of little pigs.
But I didn't drink and I had a girl of my own back home in the mountains.
So I hiked around all day and at night time I jes got out in the streets and mixed in the crowd and then went home to bed.
So I tried them both.":)And last, but not least:"But I can't tell you what it felt like when I got home in May, 1919.
Amazingly true story of a Christian,World War I veteran.

This book is hard to read at first because the words (miss spelled or not) are taken straight from his diary; it's like he's talking right to you. After the first few chapters I couldn't put the book down. Sergeant York is an amazing man of God. It is so wonderful how God can change the wildest man into a gentle God fearing man. This story that York tells proves that God keeps His promises! I would definitely read this book again!
Great story for read aloud to boy's. Hard to read his way of writing words, but we got the idea of his talent at marksmanship, and not schooling.
York's story is very interesting and is a good study in the Providence of God.
York was famously introverted and refused numerous offers to publicize his story, himself insisting that "to take money like that would be commercializing my uniform and my soldiering." (300) Besides, his simple upbringing and lack of "larnin" belied a keen instinct, for his refusal rested upon his observation that "they jes wanted me to show how I done killed the Germans in the Argonne." (300) That Skeyhill was able to finally convince York to share his story in as near to his own words as possible reveals a bond of trust uncommon between popular culture and its combat veterans.
Alvin's language makes this hard to read outloud unless you can put on a good "hick" accent! can't wait to watch the movie.
Really enjoyed reading this book out loud to my 11-year old, who loved the dialect and straight-forward talk.
He was surprisingly moved by Alvin York's struggle over whether he could kill another man and remain obedient to God. How God worked in this humble man's life on the battlefield, and off, was truly inspiring.The movie was released in 1941.
Pictures and footage of Alvin York show him smiling and laughing, and his humor and good nature came across in the book particularly when he followed humorous passages with "ho!ho!" The movie, however, stripped him of all joviality making him somewhat flat and lifeless.
This book was quite the enjoyable read! Written in the endearing, country hand of Alvin York himself but edited by amazing historians, and included pictures made this book well worth it! I would recommend this book to all ages!(The most comical aspect of this book? Alvin's continued allusions to laughing which he communicates to us by the rather frequent exclamations of "Ho, ho!" :D Made me chuckle with delight!)
Wow! I had never heard of Alvin York, one of America's greatest WWI heroes, before reading this book. What a fantastic story of faith and courage! What an incredibly humble, wise man. York didn't have much more than a 2nd grade education. Most of this book is told in his own words, with his own vivid Tennessee mountain dialect and creative spelling. Loved every page.What a great hero tale to read aloud with my son who is a World War history buff.
If you have never heard of Sgt. York...war hero of WWI, then I recommend this book. I would suggest reading something about WWI first and then follow with this. York was a strong Christian and reading about how he struggled with his faith and killing so many men is an example to anyone who struggles to reconcile his actions with his faith. I read this out loud with my son and appreciated this positive Christian message of faith, struggle, perseverance and courage.
Great book of a humble man. Loved his story and enjoyed reading it aloud to my son. Great book about WW1 and how to be a humble and obedient servant, even if you don't completely agree with what you are asked to do.
A little challenging to read if you're not used to the dialect of Tennessee Appalachia (or even if you are!), but well-worth the effort to see the Great War from the eyes of this ordinary-country-boy-turned-hero.
A humble, backwoods man, full of faith, goes to war without knowing all the reasons why and comes home to make life better for others. He has done some amazing things.
Josh R. recommended this for grade 5
Verbose and full of stereotypes, but still fascinating.
This was a great book ! I had never read anything on Alvin York before so this was all new to me. I thought his language was very interesting. A little hard to read , but interesting.
One of my favorite stories. York was a humble man who wanted to honor God, and was blessed for that. His courage, bravery and honesty make this book a rarity.
Excellent view in the life of a Christian soldier during World War 1. A little difficult to read since it is written the way Alvin York wrote with many mis-spelled words, but worth reading.
A poor young pacifist, Alvin York earned the Congressional Medal of Honor for his deeds in France during World War I.
Very interesting, told by York himself. The kids and I really enjoyed learning about this humble American hero and his experiences before, during and after WWI.
He had to be the inspiration for Luke Skywalker! "Of course it weren't no trouble nohow for me to hit them great big army targets. They were so much bigger than turkeys' heads" (p. 190)
A great story of a humble American warrior/farmer
Very informative and helpful to my research.
