https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5136.After_Many_a_Summer_Dies_the_Swan
Huxley's words shoot off the page like fine-focused film projections, filling your brain with crystal-clear pictures of the scenes that he describes, of the nervous tics and body language of every character, of the line of logic contained in each action, and the means the characters use to hide (whether effectively or not) their intentions through disingenuous words, disingenuous gestures, and disingenuous rationalizations.
Through the character William Propter, Huxley expounds upon his view that no true peace can be known, no life worth living, no gesture effective if it is not guided by the higher cause of transcending the earthly plain to the realm of the metaphysical.

Ideas of eternality, the withdrawal of one's personality, time and evil, goodness and self-interest and the meaning of being 'human', are discussed at length throughout different parts of the book.
Later on when Virginia's relationship with Pete is further revealed, their behaviour in this scene is explained and the complexity breaks down, revealing their true personality and simplistic motives.Throughout the book, as Pete becomes a more complicated thinker, Mr. Propter dives deeper into his analysis of philosophy and psychology and Jeremy Pordage discovers more about eternality, Mr. Stoyte, Dr. Obispo and Virginia start to strip down from their mysterious skin.
As novels go, After Many A Summer by Aldous Huxley presents something of the unexpected.
Overall, the experience of reading After Many A Summer takes on a distinct feel of the random, rather than mere confusion.Underlying the book’s progress is a search for an elixir of life.
Assembled, however, they do not constitute a novel and anyone who reads the book in search of linearity, literary tickling or elegance of expression will be deeply disappointed.After Many A Summer is the kind of book that an interested reader might take up to read a page or two at a time.
'After Many a Summer Dies the Swan' unfurls another story in the guise of the holograph of the Fifth Earl: an 18th century English nobleman who, like the novel's protagonist, was equally interested in prolonging his life.
The quaint manner in which the Fifth Earl expresses his wisdom, preoccupations, and world views, makes him the most endearing character of the novel.
I think this book is out of print now and is not readily available like Huxley's more famous works such as Brave New World or Point Counter Point.
Those who like to read Huxley will certainly find this book very worthwhile.
the plot had great potential.
and had nice build up, but Huxley diverted into some deeply philosophical mumbo-jumbo about 1/3rd of the way in and continued almost until the end.
What could have been an exciting read goes wanting for plot treatment and a proper climax.
potentially a great work of speculative fiction made mediocre by too much philosophizing.
What could have been an awesome read ends with a barely audible pop.
Read if ur interested in Huxley's philosophical views of life, death and a self sustaining utopic society.
Having read no Huxley other than "Brave New World", I took this one up solely on the assumption that Isherwood had included it in his "Single Man" for some good reason.
The latter -- the main thrust of the storyline, even specific settings, as well as Huxley's style here -- reminded me of nothing so much as Waugh's "The Loved One".
Hardly surprising, given that both authors were contemporaneous Englishmen dropped into the nascent California Culture.I enjoyed this book vastly more than I expected to; it leaves me wondering whether I'd better go read a little more Huxley after all!
Gotta appreciate Huxley's warning, and we can't disregard the author's stupendous, pretentious title, so two stars because at least the author recognized his own mostly pointless ramblings.
Besides, after reading this year's award-winning "Lincoln in the Bardo" (which I generously rated 1 star), I'm finding it difficult to place other works at the same low level.
Yes, absolutely, "After Many a Summer Dies the Swan" is masterpiece compared to recent award winning books like "Bardo" and "All the Light We Cannot C".
I should know by now that fiction books with pretentious titles that don't have "Who is John Galt" as the opening line are best avoided.
This was one great short story and one great treatise on God and Man unfortunately compressed into one mediocre book.
The combination ruins the flow of both story lines and leaves the reader wondering why they didn't just skip to the end.
A suggestion for the reader: if you want a smutty pulp short, skip any chapter involving Mr. Propter and read to the end.
If you want philosophy, skip any chapter involving the Baby and read to the end of Part 2.
If you want neither-skip it entirely.
Who would have known that After Many a Summer would bring a greater impact than Brave New World? Well, at least for me. It is a shame that Brave New World overshadowed it.
One quote which made me think that the greedy/rich never change stood out to me: "Power and wealth increase in direct proportion to a man's distance from the material objects from which wealth and power are ultimately derived." So true, as much today as it was in the 30s when this was written.Second to his speeches on greedy/money were the speeches on religion.
"God is completely present only in the complete absence of what we call our humanity...But let eternity experience itself, God may be sufficiently often present in the absence of human desires and feelings and preoccupations: the result will be a transformation of that life which must be lived, in the intervals, upon the human level."Surprisingly, near the end one of the topics brought up was sexuality and not just heterosexual, traditional gender-role discussion.
The first pair of chapters give a great description of Los Angeles; the quirkiness and the contrasts, giant billboards, architecture, landscape, the transients and the well-to-do, all an insight into what makes LA, LA, and perhaps could only be written by someone such as Huxley coming from a different country getting a fresh view to this new American city in the 1930s.
As always, Huxley is heavy on the philosophies and satire as he mocks the continual California search for youth with science and fad diets, yep they had them back then, and the bombastic veneer that can come from such things as exercising or wealth.
There are certainly some interesting ideas in this book, and it takes an unexpected twist, but overall I'd have to say that it's not worth wading through. The book certainly shows its age. There is a great deal of pontificating (the interesting ideas already mentioned), and it frequently feels like you're attending a lecture rather than a novel with interactions among genuine characters.Huxley uses this book to critique the excesses of American culture, so that was interesting--materialism, obsession with youth, etc. The central character strongly resembles William Randolph Hearst, much like Orson Welles' Citizen Kane.
I was a Huxley fan in my youth, with a shelf of all his works (mostly Granada?
Picador?
paperbacks, with some rotten old early 20th century hardbacks mixed in) as well as the Bedford and Dunaway biographies...
So when I began re-reading this novel a few days ago, I was full of nostalgia.
The polysyllabic vocabulary!
The learned references!
The irony!Midway through, however, I ran out of steam.
It's all talking heads, abstract philosophical polemics...
Huxley was surely a brilliant humanist: the last Victorian, maybe.
Surely one of the last polymaths...
But he wasn't a good writer.
This book is worse than bad. It's bad in and of itself -- boring as hell, pretentious, with nonhuman characters (they're just walking philosophies, no flesh and blood) and a silly, unconnected end. But it's also bad because it makes me think Brave New World might not have been so great, either. And I (have) love(d) Brave New World for decades.The only redeeming feature of this book is that my copy of it reminds me of my honeymoon in Mexico City when I picked it up. I could have left it unread for another 11 years without missing much.
Well, I can relate to the search for eternal life that is at the crux of this book. I am searching for eternal life with a guarantee of eternal youth included. Sigh, as I age I grudgingly cede that there might be worse options than death. I love Mr. Huxley's voice of irony and the eclectic chorus of characters in this tome. I found myself chuckling darkly at the ending. This is only my second Huxley book. I shall certainly read more.
One of my favorite books pretty much ever, it is also one of Huxley's most overlooked. While it is rather wordy and pretentious, I think that was kinda the point.
On the one hand, we have an uber rich old man, Jo Stoyte, who lives in a castle in the San Fernando Valley.
The other main characters are Peter, Obispo’s young, innocent assistant, and Mr. Propter, who does not live in the castle.
While the other characters are the satire of capitalism, lechery, conspicuous consumption, Forest Lawn type cemeteries, and the fear of death, Propter is the moral and philosophical force.
He’s a noble person- he helps out the migrant workers (remember, this is during the Depression), is working on a way for people to be self-sufficient, and is against the kind of wealth aggregation that Stoyte represents- but he does not serve to advance the plot at all.
Such trash! At the same time, so intellectual, so mocking, so grim.I grew up on Huxley. Wonder how much of my world view came directly from him.
The title is taken from the fourth line of the poem:"The woods decay, the woods decay and fall, The vapours weep their burthen to the ground, Man comes and tills the field and lies beneath, And after many a summer dies the swan"Huxley's novel tells the story of a Hollywood millionaire who fears his impending death.
I wanted to see if Jo Stoyte would still be alive at the end, I just wanted to know what happened next, especially after Jeremy Pordage finds in the Hauberk papers that the secret of long life just may be eating 6 ounces of raw fish guts a day.
Obispo stands for science, and science stands for the ideals from which Propter seeks liberation, the ideals of “progress” and “democracy” and “capitalism.”“Apes, the lot of us,” writes Huxley, “foetal apes.” Foetal apes which, if given physical eternity, will have time to mature.
“Apes, the lot of us,” writes Huxley, “Apes who have succumbed to the cravings and indecent pleasures of the world.”
Huxley's first California-based novel captures the millionaire/floozy/intellectual triad perfectly. This is a very funny novel with many asides that are often more amusing that the main story. Huxley is a master of irony and witty dialogue. Wonderful novel.
What I loved initially was our entrance into Los Angeles of the 1930s, driving from the airport to Jo Stoyte's estate, which I can picture well.
I live in Los Angeles and love the negative depictions (Nathaniel West, Raymond Chandler) as long as they are based on experience or specificity (joining with the place, even when disparaging it) rather than assumption.
I was surprised to find that Huxley stayed in Los Angeles because it seems like he looks down it.
And why did people have to be so mean to William Randolph Hearst and Marion Davies (sort of the basis for Jo Stoyte and his 'baby' Virginia?

There were a lot of really great ideas in this novel, but I can't say that it was an enjoyable read necessarily. It felt in a lot of ways like rough draft. There were several plot elements that were introduced but never fleshed out, and others that were fleshed out in a less-than-satisfying manner. I'm glad that I read it, however, and I have a better understanding of Huxley as a writer now.
•The human condition, self, philosophy, life and death…Huxley drones on in a novel that is purported to be connected to the life of William Randolph Hearst…there's very little to recommend the reading of this book…two stars only because it's Huxley…•
I can't bring myself to pick this up again.Maybe it's becuase there is so much craziness in real-life right now so I don't need someone preaching at me... but I think I'll set it asside for now.
Wonderful spoof on youth-obsessed culture, not in the least hampered (and probably aided) by a fairly far-fetched scientific plot device. Let's just say I've never looked at carp the same way since.
Great title, shame about the novel. One of Huxley's later novels, and really shows his interest in mysticism. Mr Propter is a barely-concealed mouthpiece for Huxley's own ideas on the Purpose of Man, and his enormous monologues were rather trying.
One of my favorite books, very disturbing take on American manias and Hollywood. Haven't read it in awhile but recommend it to anyone interested in the roots of literary science fiction or dark satire.
