https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11623.The_Unabridged_Journals_of_Sylvia_Plath
They allow us to see the seams and underpinnings necessary in the making of lasting poetry.Though Plath's sensibility is dark, and though she twists nature to her own effect, like so many other poets and fiction writers, there is something uncommon about her work and the strength and momentum that builds poem-to-poem.
It is because of this that I maintain that Plath was brilliant and that she created her final poems with genius.
The journals allow the reader to separate the person from the persona.
It is important to read the journals, and her poetry as it is appears on the page, and to remember, all art is artifice.
I decided I was going to read this for two reasons: Sylvia Plath intrigued me; and I need to write better journal entries.It is sometimes hard to wrap your head around the fact that she was so young when she wrote those journals, and constantly I had to keep reminding myself.
The working, married Sylvia was washed out and colorless.
So I suppose she just transplanted her magic from journaling to higher purposes.This book was a long, tough read.
Sylvia Plath was something else.
Her words transcend journaling.
For every page where we see Plath grappling with her depression, or her anxieties about writing, or her complex relationship with Ted Hughes, we have to wade through hundreds of pages that are nothing but Plath describing who she spent the afternoon with and what they wore and what the room looked like (As a writing exercise, she would record everyone's outfits and physical details of the places she visited - I'm sure it helped her as a writer, but for a reader, it's a maddening slog).
Plath also writes frankly about what it's really like to make a living as a writer - once she and Ted are married, they're both constantly sending stories to magazines, working on their books, and applying for writing fellowships.
There were moments reading this book that I had to put it down because the feelings are so vivid you feel like an intruder. There are quotes from her journal that decribe in dark detail the feelings that I am sure many women feel as they are on their own for the first time, falling in love, broken hearted, scared of failure, married, alone...Loved this book.
It's astounding how much I relate to Sylvia in these journals. I think all feminine beings need to read this. Her entries are honest and raw: revealing her sensitivities, obsessions, routines, insecurities...More intimate than any of her poetry books, Plath's journals offer greater insight into both her personal and literary struggles.This book is of great value to me: and I'm sure I will continue referring to it for many years.
اندوه و افسردگی در سفیدی میان خطوط، کلمهها و تاریخهای این کتاب رخنه کردهاند. از اولین یادداشتی که سیلویا پلات در ژوئیهی ۱۹۵۰ نوشته تا کمی قبل از خودکشیاش در ۱۹۶۳ چیزی شبیه یک افسردگی کشنده و ناتمام جریان دارد، مثل آبی گلآلود که اول آرام و راکد است اما بعد نیرو میگیرد و به سیلی ویرانکننده تبدیل میشود. سیلویا پلات بیواسطه و بدون تغییر نهچندان فاحشی همان دخترکی است که در حباب شیشه، خواننده را تا مرزی از سقوط در ظلمات میبرد پس نمیتوان در قلمرویی که خودش را عریان و عاری از هر نقابی نشان میدهد، انتظار
از اولین یادداشتی که سیلویا پلات در ژوئیه‌ی ۱۹۵۰ نوشته تا کمی قبل از خودکشی‌اش در ۱۹۶۳ چیزی شبیه یک افسردگی کشنده و ناتمام جریان دارد، مثل آبی گل‌آلود که اول آرام و راکد است اما بعد نیرو می‌گیرد و به سیلی ویران‌کننده تبدیل می‌شود.
برای سیلویا پلات این تسکین چاپ شدن داستان/ شعرهایش در نشریات معتبر آن سال‌هاست و چرا او که مدام میان این‌که چقدر خوب می‌نویسد یا اصلاً چرا می‌نویسد؟ در جنگ است به اندازه کافی مورد توجه نبوده؟ این حالات ناخوشی، طرد کردن نوشتن و میل برای فرار از کلمه‌ها و تبدیل شدن به یک آدم معمولی که کار کارمندی می‌کند و نوشتن برایش باری به هر جهت است،‌ لذت‌هایش بی‌مایه و دغدغه‌هایش مسخره‌...
مذكراتها جعلتني أشعر أنني صديقة مقربة لها. عظيمة.
This is the book that introduced me to Sylvia Plath.
To truly have a complete picture of Sylvia Plath, 'The Journals' are integral.
One of my great thrills was to visit Smith College, and meet Karen Kukil and actually pick up and read the actual journals.
In the Mortimer rare book room, I was also able to see the drafts of her poems written on the pink Smith College stationary.
To read the Journals for me was to get closer to the real Sylvia Plath, and away from the sensationalized version.
Highly recommended for anyone interested in Sylvia Plath.
اين كتاب كادوى تولد نه سال پيشم بودو امسال خوندمشترجمه عالى كتاب تحسين برانگيزهاما حذف هاى زياد خواننده رو اذيت ميكنهالبته افسردگى پلات هم خوندن كتابو سخت ميكنه ولى اينكه اين همه سال خاطره نوشته و وقتى خاطراتشو ميخونى انقد بهش احساس نزديكى ميكنى انگار كه زندگى خودته خيلى قشنگه
I will not rate this book. It's too hard for me to finish reading. I feel like I'm intruding. I love memoirs, but this is not one. This is a collection of raw feelings/thoughts. Would Sylvia Plath have published her diaries, had she survived? Would she have changed them before publication?
"I love people.
I would like to be everyone, a cripple, a dying man, a whore, and then come back to write about my thoughts, my emotions, as that person.
And you cannot discard your own life with objective curiosity." The quality that predominantly stands out in Sylvia Plath's writing style is that as you are reading, she becomes you and you become her.
(Seriously, what is not there in that book?) Writing is a way of expression, among other things, and Sylvia knows how to express.
Reading her thoughts on authors like Virginia Woolf, Henry James, Capote, D.H Lawrence and many others was a delightful treat.
،کتابی رو سراغ ندارم که نویسنده ش انقدر دقیق و هنرمندانه و عمیق، تمام کلام و احساساتی که همیشه می خواستم بگم ولی از ترس گرفتار شدن به دام ابتذال هیچوقت نتونستم رو به زیبایی نوشته باشه.
حدود پونصد صفحه س و مسلمن جزئیات خسته کننده هم توش هست ولی بخش گسترده ای از کتاب بیان آشفتگی ها و تشویش هاییه که هر زنی -هر آدمی- با دغدغه پیشرفت و درجا نزدن و فرار از جمود و رخوت هر روزه ممکنه بهش دچار بشه.
خود پلات اسم کتاب خاطراتش رو گذاشته بود: دیوان رویاها، دستورها و ضروریات.
می دونم در آینده بارها و بارها میرم سراغ این کتاب.
Sylvia Plath has been an alluring figure in both history and pop culture for decades, both because of her dark, vivid writing and because of her mysterious suicide. These non-fiction journals are about as close to her mind as anyone will likely ever get.
i am a self-admitted voyeur so i couldn't resist this glimpse into her mind.
as always, ted had a say in what we (and more importantly, her children) would know of her:"I destroyed [the last of her journals] because I did not want her children to have read it (in those days I regarded forgetfulness as an essential part of survival)"yes, it is disappointing to know those words are forever lost.
fortunately she has other ways of guiding us through the darkest portals of her mind, and i am grateful for the challenge of the journey.
Sylvia captured her emotions and inner struggles beautifully and narrated everything with such impeccable honesty that it is hard not to like her. She seems to me a very evolved person and I do feel bad that she decided to leave the world so soon. This book has led me to introspect and look into myself for the emptiness and negativities that a person usually ignores. I believe it is very important to understand one's true self and this journal really helps one in doing so.
This should be at the top of everybody's reading list...
This just in: Sylvia Plath's journals? kind of a downer.Also disorganized, vast, incredibly rich. I enjoyed the early college years the most, when she's all casually fantastic writing and cycling ecstasy and alienation. The later stuff is heavier with self-consciousness and deeply frustrating relationships with men. She's one of those people that I would be friends with and love dearly, but every year or so I would lose it and snap "oh just fucking deal with it," at her.But man could she write. Worth it just for a week of deep, oceanic reading, coming from nowhere and going everywhere.
اين ٥ ستاره را نه به يك رمان، بلكه به يك سرگذشت و خود نوشت فوق العاده دادم..
I feel like an intruder reading this.Incredibly vast and intricate, even her ordinary accounts of days are almost as eloquent and forceful as her poetry.
ورژن epub من سه هزار صفحس، تو اين هفتصد صفحه حرفايي كه در دويست صفحه اول نوشته شده رو سه بار هر بار با تغييرات خيلي جزئي خوندم.
پلات به شدت از دنيا طلبكاره، به دفعات حرفاشو تكرار ميكنه، و خيلي از تجربه هاي مشترك زنانه صحبت ميكنه، از اين منظر بسيار شبيه فروغ خودمونه به نظر من، پر از احساسات سركش، عواطف و احوالات زنانه ...
پلات از كسايي بود كه فكر ميكردم ميتونه انتخاب امروز من براي بعدها باشه، از اون نويسنده ها كه الان پيدا ميكني و تا آخرِ زندگيتو به قبل و بعد تقسيم ميكنن؛ ولي فهميدم نه، پلاتم نه!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7ClDF...0:02 Beginning theme, comforting, like her first diary entries, sounds to me like: it is, it is gonna be ok, it is, it is gonna be ok... "...I love people. Everybody. Every story, every incident, every bit of conversation is raw material for me...I have to live my life, it's the only one I'll ever have." 00:22 and the theme repeats, but a little stronger this time, more emotional, deeper bass, deeper her love for life: "...I want to live and feel all the s
00:22 and the theme repeats, but a little stronger this time, more emotional, deeper bass, deeper her love for life:
"...I want to live and feel all the shades, tones, and variations of mental and physical experience possible in my life"
It seems...01:18 IT IS, it is gonna be ok, beginning theme comes again, symbolizes her first writing recognition.
Something is wrong with her too, she feels it, the dream of a happy life gets shattered, pounded again and again by strong bass piano chords all leading to November 3, 1952: 
اين كتاب در واقع قسمتي از خاطرات روزانه ي سيلويا پلات است كه از دوران نوجواني براي خود نوشته بود و بعد از مرگ او توسط همسرش تد هيوز منتشر شد، اين شاعر و نويسنده ي آمريكايي، زن با استعدادي با دروني متلاطم و نا آرام بود كه دستاورد هاي مسير زندگي اش هيچگاه برايش كافي نبود و در سن سي سالگي با دومين خودكشي خود به زندگي اش پايان داد، مرگ او نيز واكنشهاي فرواني از طرف فعالان حقوق زن در آن دوران داشت.
زندگي كوتاه اين نويسنده پر از ناشناخته هايي است كه قسمتي از آن در خاطراتش نوشته شده است.
This is a book that would probably be best read the way it was written, a page or two at a time over a period of years.
Roughly 700 pages at one gulp can be an overdose.
Plath is a good writer and a perceptive and intelligent woman, but living inside her head for very long isn't comfortable even for an observer.
Knowing the ending in advance, of course, gives the reader an edge on Plath and adds an unintended layer of irony to many entries and an involuntary little shiver to comments like "I desire the things which will destroy me in the end."
Traces d'une femme qui peine, et s'en sort bien.
رهيب شلون تلقى كل مشاعرك ومخاوفك وتفاصيل حياتك وأفكارك موصوفة بدقة بمذكرات شاعرة من القرن الماضي في قارة بعيدة عن مكانك. عزتني كثير، طحنت قلبي.
6 estrelas, se eu pudesse. Mudou a minha vida.
Anyone curious about Sylvia Plath as not only a poet, but a woman of the 50s, and perhaps as a feminist icon or a psychological study will be sorely mistaken not to delve into this collection.
Plath was a phenomenal woman of the past mid-century, and such a loss to the literary world.
Reading this collection, I realize that journaling is a literary form in its own right, and no matter how desperately Plath wanted to become a celebrated prose writer, it is her journal-writing as well as her poetry which made her name, and rightly so.
She was an incredible writer, and a remarkable woman of the 20th Century.
نمیخواهی فقط یک بار آن هم به شکلی زندگی کنی که در یک جملهی کلی بتوانند بگویند: «او یه دختر ... بود» و نهایتاً در ۲۵ کلمه یا کمتر و بیشتر تو را شرح بدهند. میخواهی هر قدر میتوانی زندگی کنی... تو ثروتمندی... چون هجدهسالهای، هنوز حساسی، هنوز به خودت ایمان نداری، کمی گستاخ حرف میزنی و اندکی معقول تا خطاهایت را بپوشانی. پس نمیتوان تو را به احساساتی بودن، سانتیمانتالبازی یا رفتارها و تدابیر زنانه متهم کرد.***چطور می توانم به باب بفهمانم که خوشبختی من کندن تکه ای از زندگی ام، تکه ای از قلب و زیبایی ام و

Reading this... changed the way I think. I know and understand that Plath has been over-romanticized since her tragic death, but these journals are the undeniable evidence of her poetic genius. Plath found beauty in everything, and her descriptions of internal and external experiences are absolutely stunning.I highly recommend this to anyone interested in Plath, poetry, mental illness, women writers, etc.
Kukil, the Associate Curator of Special Collections at Smith College, ‘an exact and complete transcription of the journals kept by Sylvia Plath during the last twelve years of her life’ has been included, and ‘there are no omissions, deletions or corrections of Plath’s words in this edition’.
The first entry which Plath writes reads like an echo for much of her life: ‘I may never be happy, but tonight I am content’.Throughout her journals, Plath is so warm, full of vivacity, and strikingly original.
