https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/854738.Travels_in_Arabia_Deserta_Volume_1
And the first impression of strangeness anyone receives with regard to Doughty is from his prose.
His writing sounds very much like he never in his life read anything other than Sir Thomas Browne (he of "Urne Buriall" fame) and perhaps Burton's "Anatomy of Melancholy".
So the first weird desert one has to cross in reading Doughty's book is his language.
Why expend energy reading such eldritch language?
Well, my personal opinion is that his words and syntax add to and support the entirely correct impression of strangeness that Doughty obviously wanted to convey to his readers.
One of the greatest books ever written - do not read the abridged version.
The language - which finds the language of King James most appropriate to describe (then) contemporary Bedouin life - can only be felt at length, and so can the drama and fear of a man throwing himself completely into another way of life that he knows only from his reading of the Bible.
(Note also that Doughty never disguises himself or presents himself as other than a despised Christian to his Arab hosts).
To read both volumes is as much of a life experience as many marriages - and more lengthy than some.
Doughty's writing style is often aggressively archaic (compared to contemporaries like Twain & Dickens who I imagine he despised) but he includes some awfully good stories and scenes from 19th century Arabia.... the book despite it's archaic tone is often included in lists of the best travel writing for a reason. Don't know maps are included in the modern edition, but the maps are all important...
Often astonishing prose that reads more like the 1600s than the 1800s, and an almost overwhelming level of detail.
Sharing Sam Schulman's review.
Why reinvent the wheel?
One of the greatest books ever written - do not read the abridged version.
The language - which finds the language of King James most appropriate to describe (then) contemporary Bedouin life - can only be felt at length, and so can the drama and fear of a man throwing himself completely into another way of life that he knows only from his reading of the Bible.
(Note also that Doughty never disguises himself or presents himself as other than a despised Christian to his Arab hosts).
To read both volumes is as much of a life experience as many marriages - and more lengthy than some.
Later, when the pilgrims come back, he takes off into the Arabian desert with a tribe of Bedouins and travels around barely surviving with several groups of them for over a year.The book is filled with interesting tidbits of history, Middle Eastern folklore, and observations of the people he is with.
The e-book copy I have appears to have been scanned in from an old hard copy of some kind, and some of the letters have not translated well.
I wonder how the poor Arabs of the 1870s wandering around the desert barely ekeing out a living would compare to today's oil-rich Arabs...
Doughty’s language and attitudes are so outdated that they make for very slow reading.In the blurb on the back of the Dover edition, we read, “…it is his style which makes the book unique: Doughty believed the English language had fallen from grace since Spenser; he set out to restore its beauty through sonorous rhythm and a vocabulary and syntax recalling the Tyndale Bible.” Translated, this means that his language and style, even in 1888, were consciously archaic, filled with high-sounding circumlocutions, and deadly dull.At the same time, although Doughty clearly loved Arabia and met many worthy people there, he holds both Islam and Muslims, not to mention Judaism and Jews, in contempt.
A legendary work to me because of T.E. Lawrence.
It was his bible on Arabia -- "a bible of its kind" he says in his introduction -- and written, I hear, with the King James Bible in mind, or Spenser.
I remember Lawrence said it took the language back to the glory days of Spenser, though he may have exaggerated.I'm 94 pages into 1300.
I haven't found the language as strange as advertised (that may build up) but as Lawrence also says in the intro, "Doughty's completeness is devastating." It moves slowly...
I guess that's how he wrote 1300 pages on two years' travel.
Excellent atmospheric read. Doughty is an early explorer of Arabia, and his account is as valuable as Burton's.
