https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/101094.The_Famished_Road
They wanted to know the essence of pain, they wanted to suffer, to feel, to love, to hate, to be greater than hate, and to be imperfect in order to always have something to strive towards, which is beauty. They wanted also to know wonder and to live miracles. Death is too perfect. The road thirsts for libations of blood and tears and sucks into its inescapable vortex, parables of imperialist avarice and remnants of broken dreams. It cuts across the acropolis of untold agonies, eavesdropping on
It cuts across the acropolis of untold agonies, eavesdropping on circular conversations, witness to the absurd manoeuvrings of the 'Party of the Rich' and the 'Party of the Poor', audience to the familiar hysterics of Azaro's mum and Madame Koto ruing deaths and reversals of fortune, to the sounds of laughter and merriment emanating from the mass of rowdy gatherings, winding its way in and around the heart of an anonymous African nation submerged in the septic pool of 'third world' squalor and privations.The road accompanies Azaro, his 'mum' and 'dad' on their unending excursions into realms - known and unknown - transporting them across the rim separating reality and illusion, reinstilling in them a desire for the sweet torment of mortal life as opposed to the calm inviolate certainty afforded by the dimension of spirits.
This book almost broke me and ate me.I went to bed after reading the first twenty pages of it and I dreamt about chasing an antelope with a broken horn which jumped out the window.
There was also a flying carpet.I don't really like magical realism but this book didn't care.
By the end of it I would read about a man who slept for two months and not bat an eye.
I wanted it to end and I didn't want it to end.I realise it is a love it or hate it kind of book and frankly I don't mind if you hate it.
Just didn’t feel the love for this.
I hate long accounts of dreams in novels and magical realism can be like reading an endless succession of dreams.
In short, this is a novel about an African community struggling and failing to be born, the community a microcosm of Africa itself.
The characters repeated themselves to the point where it felt to me the entire novel was running on the spot.
It felt like continually picking up the Go To Jail Monopoly card – do not pass go, do not collect £200.
I have read other books that use magical portrayals and I have liked most of them.
This book is just too long, with pages and pages of weird images embedded in trite episodes.May be I should offer an apology, for I suspect that, as it happens in other unfortunate occasions, the timing of my reading was wrong.
The one book that kept coming to my mind, when the succession of idiosyncratic images and endless strings of spirits got on my nerves, was Beloved (1987-Pulitzer).
5 stars.....a monstrously beautiful piece of literature....a must read before you dieDecided to add two comments thatI gave to two Goodreads friends since I wrote such a flimsy little fragments in 2013 (when I was not writing reviews)"This book is so unbelievable.
I have never read a book that was like one long dream sequence full of wonder, beauty and ugliness.
This is in my top ten books of all time""You will die from the wonder.
I cannot put into words the impact this book has had on me.
It is one of those books that I really cannot believe was written by human means."
A boy sat down to read a book, but when he looked closely, it was not a book, but a person.
The person had green skin and roller-skates for eyes.
"What are you looking at?" the person asked the boy.
"I thought you were a book," the boy said.
"No," the person said, "I am a metaphor or magical realism or some shit.
But I have roller-skates for eyes, that's pretty cool." The boy shrugs.
"You're mum is a metaphor," he said.
When he woke up the book that had became a person was now a midget with alligator legs, and the midget sat on the back of a parakeet with five heads.
One is reminded of Achebe's Things Fall Apart in which the Yoruba myth of the abiku, or spirit child, is so much more darkly rendered.
Azaro, short for Lazarus, another abiku, and his mum and dad, live in an unnamed city in a modern African state.
Instead there is much acting out, violence, aggression, theft.Azaro travels back and forth between the spirit world and reality.
There might be moments of periodic ambiguity, but Okri always cures these before too long.
Please don't take the bait and read The Famished Road solely as an allegory on the newly independent state of Nigeria.
The narrative works on many levels.
The narrator Azari is a spirit-child, and at every crisis point he journeys into the spirit world of the forest, into nightmarish scenes populated by weird spirit creatures, who want him to die and return to their world.
The other main characters are his parents, referred to simply as Mum and Dad, and Madame Koto, an upwardly mobile bar owner - Azari spends much of his time with her.
However I don't want to be wholly negative, as much of the book is very entertaining and surprisingly readable - I just feel that at nearly 600 pages it outstays its welcome, and it would have been more powerful at half its length.
The whole of human history is an undiscovered continent deep in our souls. The linearity of narrative is a relatively recent innovation in storytelling, rather like perspective in painting: it is not integral to the art. Myths, our oldest examples of the narrative art, are not linear. They spread across time and space in all directions, with times past, present and future seamlessly intermingling, and the ‘real’ world cohabiting the ‘imaginary’ one with people travelling across the boundary eff
the demon of hunger constantly driving the common man to reach for the skies, as the tribal and the capitalist worlds collide.However, what sets this novel apart from the humdrum is the richness of the mythical vein running through the story.
And to cap it all, Madame Koto, bloated with a permanent pregnancy and a swollen foot, strides across the narrative like a primal fertility goddess, a distorted Venus of Willendorf.And then, there are the dreams and the stories, narrated by all and sundry...***About three decades back, I used to watch a lot of art movies through our local film society.
Oh my dear lord, how I hated "The Famished Road". Friends don't let friends read this book. I only finished it because I was trekking in Nepal with no alternative English-language book for miles upon miles. In my personal hell, this is the only book in the library.
It recurs in many guises: from false holiness to naked danger to amulet of enemies.But Okri would not have us simplify, would not have us make this many-faceted reflection into a parable where every sign has one meaningAnd that, I think, is the reason for the profusion of his prose, the reason for the foregoing frustration: it is intended to break the habit of convergent thinkers like me (schooled by an education that punishes failure to alight immediately on correctness, an education that denies the subjectivity of the subject even as it subjects her, an education that sneers at feeling) of seeking the single reading, the one thread of meaning.The texture of this book is excessive.
A very strange book.
I found the first two thirds dull, densely dreamlike, and impenetrable.
Then something caught fire, and the last third was absolutely riveting.
In the final chapters, the camera pulls back and you realize that the book isn't just about a boy who is struggling to be "born"; it's about all of post-colonial Africa, struggling repeatedly to be born, and too often falling back into death.
It needs to be read with Zimbabwe, or Liberia, or Sierra Leone, or Angola, or Uganda, or the Congo in mind.
If you can make it through the first part of the book, the last third is more than worth it.
I read this book when Ben Okri won the Booker Prize, its an astonishing read full of detail and insight into the world of spirits in village life. I could not put it down its compelling and hypnotic. Amust read for every serious book reader.
I CAN'T HANDLE THIS BOOK!
I am a bit over halfway and can't quite stop reading it but it keeps me up all night (not turning pages, but anxious after I put it down...).
It had so much potential to be good but all of the acid trip writing never amounted to any real substance in the first 2/3 of the book!
Not enough progress has been made for me to get some positive reinforcement in reading this.
there is no reward at the end..
the entire book is a big, bold, confusing, spiritual, poetry in prose abstract painting told in a dream-perspective (confusing, right?).
The reward is the painting as a whole...
This is my book of the year!
I absolutely devoured this book.
An African tale filled with folklore, sangomas and creatures of a nether world.
The story traces the life of Lazarus, a boy gifted with the power to see and engage in the African spirit world.
This book was filled with moments where I wonder what on earth was going on only to be dumped firmly back on harsh African soil.
I had nightmares all the time while reading it, surreal magical creatures jumped from the book right into my dreams.
Read it!
بزودی با فروکش کردن تب و تاب حاصل از خواندن این کتاب عجیب و روياگونه، یادداشت مختصری ارائه می گردد.
i read some reviewers who claim he merely includes more of the same, more fantastical, definitely african, images, thickening the stew but not creating new savour, but i suggest this is how to continue exploring this confusing world of a spirit child who would rather be free of human being, be free, be untouched by sorrows of living.
i have often claimed i did not like poetry, going back to class at u, but to look at some works read this is obviously mistaken.
An awful book. Boring, impenetrable, and practically unreadable. Utter dross hiding behind the obscure and silly moniker of 'magic realism'. I have to admit I started skimming whole paragraphs, something I've NEVER done as a reader. Nonesense. Vague. Over written. No plot. Rubbish.
This masterpiece of imagery and language made me question everything about the capitalist machine.The story of the boy Azaro and his family's struggle in a poor neighborhood somewhere in Nigeria shuttles readers between the real world and the spirit world and interweaves the two in any given scene.
It's a story of the strength of family in the face of unstoppable forces pushing against them: landlords and politicians and poor, sometimes parasitic neighbors all around them.To me, Ben Okri's depiction of the living world anticipates utter chaos and ruin.
In the month since I've finished The Famished Road it's managed to become less appealing and the worse parts have stuck more strongly in my mind.
Azaro's father is conflicted, torn between his natural viciousness and his desire to be gentle and kind to his family.
As Azaro's mother becomes more selfless and kind, she gets called beautiful and thin.
The claustrophobic staccato rhythms initially seemed powerful, but over the course of 500 some odd pages they felt gritty for the sake of being gritty.
Azaro gets kidnapped by the spirits a good five or six times, each abduction pretty much identical to the last.
A young Nigerian boy named Azaro is caught between two worlds: the real world, and the spirit world he came from when he was born.
Azaro's real world family lives a hand-to-mouth existence, with his father doing manual labor jobs for very little money, and his mother peddling what cheap goods she can get ahold of.
Add to this political thugs, herbalists, boxers, beggars, witches, and other strange beings and you've got a rich and powerful story.This book is possibly one of the wierdest books I've ever read.
I can't say I always understood it, but the journey through it and into Azaro's bizarro world made for some of the best reading I've had this year.
Okri provides a wonderful insight into the life of ordinary villagers during the colonial rule at an unnamed location in Africa, presumably in Nigeria.
Although initially I appreciated these mystic elements as they provided an enjoyable surreal touch to the story, midway through the book these descriptions turned absolutely bizarre and repetitive.
I would recommend this book because of Okri's brilliant command over his words and for the vivid descriptions of life in colonial Africa.
Anybody who cannot tolerate repetitive descriptions of hallucinations with otherworldly creatures might find it hard to get through the book.
braving the possible negative backlash, i have already put one hundred years of solitude on my favorites shelf.
i read this quite a while ago (in 2006 maybe) but tonight i don't want to sleep so i'm killing the time on goodreads randomly adding things.
the naivete, good intentions, and need for protection of the young yanks at my heart strings every time.
so knowing this bias about myself, i may be clouded as to the real merit of this book.
with this review i'm going to inaugurate a new shelf: books i'd like to reread sometime.
I found this book immensely frustrating—I wanted to love it much more than I did, but despite the beauty of Okri's prose, I read The Famished Road itching for a red pen.
At least half of the book could have been edited out, and it would have made for a much stronger novel.
It all felt muddled and vague, as if Okri hadn't thought through exactly what he wanted to say.
I will look out for some of Okri's later writing, to see if he's improved on the glimmers of promise he shows here, but overall this needed half the length and twice the precision.
পুরাটা মনোযোগ দিয়ে পড়ি নাই, পাতা উলটায়ে গেছি। আড়াইশো পাতা পড়বার পর যদি মনে হয় পরথম লাইনটাই ভালো ছিলো, বাকী আড়াইশো পাতাকে অথরব বলে সবীকার করাই উততম। চাল নাই চুলা নাই, গলপের কোনো হদিশ নাই। বাজে।
পুরাটা মনোযোগ দিয়ে পড়ি নাই, পাতা উল্টায়ে গেছি। আড়াইশো পাতা পড়বার পর যদি মনে হয় প্রথম লাইনটাই ভালো ছিলো, বাকী আড়াইশো পাতাকে অথর্ব বলে স্বীকার করাই উত্তম। চাল নাই চুলা নাই, গল্পের কোনো হদিশ নাই। বাজে।
It felt like a lot was happening but going nowhere fast, reminding me of Yeat’s poem “Things Fall Apart” where “the center cannot hold.” Yet, having lived in Ghana, Africa while reading this book, I had a different experience with it than I think I would have otherwise.
One other way that I think my experience helped me visualize this story is the compound.
I think that says a lot about what modernization is doing for these people, and it is a sad but accurate reflection of many people that I know back home.
Tot romanul are un aer hipnotic, te călăuzește în lumea unui copil ce poate vedea dincolo de realitatea sumbră în care se bea ogogoro și se bat alcoolicii pe stradă, el vede lumea ca un curcubeu al spiritelor, unde fiecare încearcă să-și excercite puterea pentru a-l aduce înapoi spre originile sale și spre destinul său.Părerea mea: Mi-a fost destul de greu să intru în poveste, a fost destul de nouă această noțiune de ,,copil-spirit” și modul în care am văzut lumea prin ochii unui copil cu adevărat special.
1991Beautiful images and prose, but far too long to keep me loving it.
Can you have too much beauty?
Then it all happens again.At half the length it would get 4 or even 5 stars.Someone in another review said that it showed the monotony of poverty; how sad if even beauty and spirituality fail to lift the tedium.
A Thrilling Journey through African EnchantmentBen Okri's THE FAMISHED ROAD is exceptional in its treatment of fiction as a study of both history and prophecy.
Through the eyes of Okri's child hero, Azaro (shortened from Lazarus) readers enter an African community coming to terms with that crossroads known as change.
Like another boy hero in the famed CALVIN AND HOBBES comic strip, Okri's Azaro is prone to wandering roads of the imagination that constantly lead him in body, mind, and spirit away from the safety of his parents' protection.
History, mythology, and social realism mix in THE FAMISHED ROAD to create a very heady fictional brew.
It was too much for my little brain to process at certain times, got confused between reality and visions/dreams.Could not really understand some of the metaphors,This book was way too strong for me.
