https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/70487.Attack_of_the_Deranged_Mutant_Killer_Monster_Snow_Goons
It's best to let Watterson speak for himself. Some choice selections from this book:
I am an old woman, so I have read literally thousands of comics. 'Calvin and Hobbes' are the best comics I have ever read. If I wasn't planning on cremation, I would ask to be buried with a 'Calvin and Hobbes' book. (Second choice would be 'Doonesbury'.)
Last few days I've spent on getting to know Calvin and Hobbes, reading all I could put my hands or lay my eyes on :)This is definitely my favourite issue, specifically the snow goons part and the Duplicator fun :) I've read this over a Thursday morning coffee and I just felt sorry afterwards that I rushed to read it all asap. My personal highlight was the: "Hobbes, do you think our morality is defined by our actions, or by what's in our hearts?I think our actions SHOW what's in our hearts."Calvin stops, thinks. "I RESENT THAT!" :D :D
I'm a big Calvin and Hobbes and this collection is one of my favourites. Brilliant and a must read!My Rating: 5 stars
This book is my favorite in the series. The title is very promising, and you get a lot of Calvin’s snowmen indeed. Hobbes is amazing: he is skeptical, sarcastic, and infinitely wise. Furthermore, he takes advantage of his feral self against Calvin a lot... Calvin’s duplicator is a fantastic invention. Completing it with an Ethicator makes it more effective, creating the good side of Calvin. It is a truly laugh-out-loud moment when Calvin and Hobbes get rid of the good Calvin, who becomes really annoying after a while.
I don’t know if a family, much less a childhood, without Calvin and Hobbes would be complete. Frankly, once it stopped being published, my newspaper readership dropped off significantly. Everyone needs to smile, needs a little imagination in their life, and needs a little bit of Calvin and Hobbes. And if anyone is up for a game of Calvinball, just give me a call.
"Attack of the Deranged Mutant Killer Monster Snow Goons" refers to one of these story lines in which Calvin creates a mutant snow man which in turn creates an army of similar creatures.
Other story lines involve Calvin getting chicken pox; his creation of his own TV show; and his club known as GROSS (a warped acronym for "Get Rid Of Slimy girlS").
Last but not least, Calvin builds a human duplicating machine out of a cardboard box, and he makes a special copy of himself that represents everything good in him.
The Calvin and Hobbes stories are great because they are funny celebrations of the power of a child's imagination.
If there's ever a moment when you want to laugh and smile, just ask the help of Calvin and his best friend Hobbes. You can never go wrong.
Raccolta di strisce e di tavole domenicali, prima di leggerlo pensavo fossero tutte correlate all'inverno (un po' come quelle a tema di Charlie Brown), invece sono un misto di tutte le stagioni e di tutti i temi, mostri di neve, biciclette killer, viaggi nella preistoria e nel futuro etc...Calvin è un bambino dotato di una fantasia sfrenata mentre Hobbes la sua tigre di peluche; sono vignette comiche, riflessive, quasi filosofiche, da leggere insomma.
I love, love>, LOVE every Calvin and Hobbes book, and especially this one, with all the creative snowman stuff. Who needs it to be Halloween to get creative with scary yard art? Not Calvin!Great title, by the way. Not just killer<?i> snowmen. Oh, excuse me - snow GOONS. Not just deranged killer snow goons. Oh, no, these are deranged MUTANT killer MONSTER snow goons. Let's get that straight, 'kay?
Only Calvin could see advantages in being sick and having to stay away from other kids. And away from school. Calvin's bitter enemy surfaces in this volume: the deadly bicicle. It's amazing to which lengths he goes to to explain his bad behavior near Christmas. He's such a victim of circumstance. The PI story is hilarious and riddled with mysoginistic references like any good pulp novel should be. He is adorable when he breaks the fourth wall. I'm so glad I picked up this collection.
Beware! Beware! Beware, beware, beware!Deranged Mutant Killer Monster Snow GoonsThey've been planning attack for many moons!Beware! Beware! Beware, beware, beware!Calvin and Hobbes to the rescueTo hide and panic and defeat them, too!Beware! Beware! Beware, beware, beware!How do they defeat the monsters of snow?The answer is unknown--oh no!Beware! Beware! Beware, beware, beware!The solution is just under their noseSpray them with the hose!
Great collection of strips that id never read before. Novels and bios are great, but a good collection of comic strips like this is an easier read, whether it's a single story strip or stretches out over a few. The humor for this strip is always funny, I wish it still ran in newspapers.
These comics never get old. But I do, I have become Calvin's dad :(
Brilliant as always
Pros:Funny, Hilarious, Clever, Beloved, TimelessCons:noneBest Uses:Antidote to the gloomies, Read aloud, Pick me up, Sharing, Read at the tableBottom Line:Yes, I would recommend this to a friendMy son is 8 years old. He loves Calvin and Hobbes. It has humor for him, and for us - his parents. It also gives us an opportunity to teach him advanced words when desired.I loved Calvin and Hobbes when it first came out. Now I get to love it all over again through the eyes of my son as we all read it together.
I highly recommend this book to anyone who likes comics and funny books.
Just what I needed. Fun. Fun. Fun.
TEN STARS BECAUSE OF ALL THE SNOWMEN
Calvin is the kid I'm glad to see only in books. Hilarious.
The best calvin and hobbes in my opinion.....the snowman house of horrors is probably my favorite comic of all time
Calvin and Hobbes is great! Such a childhood gem. Picking this up and giving it a read quickly made me nostalgic. You are never too old for this.
which many parents will recognise.At one point in reading to the children (8 and 10) I stopped and explained some of the drawing and composition techniques Watterson uses:- Open lines; the lower jaws of his characters routinely have the line broken; partly to keep the expression open but also as some fake light modelling- Blocks of black; graphic anchors for the composition of the strip- Frames without borders; for composition and maybe to break through the fourth wall- And some discussion as to how he must have reworked the single strips for this book edition; three or four strips to a page.All good stuff...
4/5I always love Calvin and Hobbes. They remind me a lot about my childhood because, like Calvin, I had a vivid imagination. I like to think Hobbes really does come alive. Maybe some people have just lost the ability to believe, is all. I did miss the babysitter in this one, though. She's so funny! But I really cannot complain because, quite frankly, who doesn't enjoy these comics? They're so refreshing and hilarious (while at the same time surprisingly deep at times)!
Calvin Hobbs is classic (has it really been that long) awesomeness ... if you love Calvin and Hobbs. I won't compare Bill Waterson's iconic characters with other cartoon creations because there's absolutely no reason to. Calvin and Hobbs takes me back to the imagination-fueled yesterdays of my own childhood, sans an imaginary tiger-friend: and, that makes me feel good.
Good but few Snow GoonsI loved the second half of the strips, but the first half was slow since I was expecting winter and Snow Goons based on the title. But it started in summer? Different title would have given me different expectations. Good strips, just not what I thought it would be for the most part.
Un niño pequeño (Calvin) que con su amigo Hobbes; un tigre de peluche. Logran que los días sean divertidos con ocurrencias sobre la vida, escuela y lo que los adultos creen que es importante. Para ellos todo es sencillo y demuestra que con imaginación todo es posible.
I LOVE. CALVIN AND HOBBSI like to read a couple or more of these comics after I'm through reading each night. I enjoy them so much. They make me laugh out loud.Read them yourself and see if I'm right. Happy Reading!
Rereading the Calvin and Hobbes books in my mid-thirties has been like meeting old friends again. There's no one sweeter or funnier. It's amazing how these strips, written over twenty-five years ago, are still relevant to our current times.
