https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19286669-the-silent-sister
it's a different type of listening to then "Truman" or "The "Destiny of the Republic".
I still have a LONG way to go with Truman -- but one more long walk - and I'm almost done with "Destiny of the Republic"...
I simply was 'engaged' in knowing WHO THEY WERE - WHY THEY WERE THE WAY THEY WERE.
I'm sure credit belongs to author Diane Chamberlain--but I have a hunch I might not have like this book is much 'without' the audiobook.
haha while audio-enjoying!!!I plan to try another 'written' book by Diane Chamberlain.
My next Chamberlain book "The Midwife's Confession" ....
This sister can stay silent no longer: I LOVED THIS BOOK!I was THRILLED to receive this book from Goodreads, and here is my honest review:This was a fantastic book!
I'm so glad that I won this book, because who knows how much longer I would have gone without having Diane Chamberlain on my radar?
I will tell you this: there is a sister.
She is silent.
That's what I'm not telling you.
He might as well be called The Silent Brother.
There are lots of twists.
My best estimate is a twist every 35 pages.
Congratulations, Diane!
You feel invested enough in the story to actually watch it play out even if it is predictable.
Riley MacPherson's father has recently passed and she returns to her childhood home to sort through his belongings.
It's up to her to get everything in order because her sister committed suicide when Riley was a toddler, her mother died years ago and her brother Danny won't be much help because he has his own set of problems.
While going through her father's stuff she comes across things that indicate that her sister Lisa might actually be alive.
Definitely recommend if you enjoy books with complex characters and enjoy family dramas.
She doesn’t expect to uncover a boatload of family secrets, including the one that reveals the truth about her older sister Lisa: she’s still alive.My feelings for this book are really divided – on one hand I truly enjoyed the mystery element and the story was riveting and engrossing, but on the other hand, some events that take place are so predictable and/or far-fetched I had trouble identifying with the narrative as a whole.
My favorite by far is Lisa and she’s probably the character the author develops the most.
Well, in Diane Chamberlain's The Silent Sister Riley MacPherson finds that the stories she's been told of her sister, believed to have committed suicide as a teenager, just may in fact be alive.
I've never read any other books by Diane Chamberlain and I'm not sure what I expected, but this novel reads like chick-lit.
That is fine and dandy if that's what you're in the mood for, but I definitely wasn't which is unfortunate because The Silent Sister is actually gripping from the beginning.
I really enjoyed this book. It kept me on the edge of my seat and some parts were def. predictable but I still enjoyed the journey it took to get there. The ending was rushed and the majority of the secrets and etc spilled out in the last 50 pages which wasn't enough time for me. I would recommend this to anyone who's looking for a good mystery to read.
This is the second book of this author that I finished and once again I am emotionally invested in the deftly plotted, immensely readable, and masterfully executed saga of a family in crisis.Perhaps the title could have been The Violin named Violet.
Mmm...yes, a bit too much, but really, this violin in this tale had this mysterious story to tell: "Hi, my name is Violet, Violet MacPherson, the only member of this family, apart from Lisa who committed suicide at the age of sixteen, who knows what really happened and it is not what you think!
4.5 stars I really enjoyed this book. I have read all of Diane Chamberlain's books and was anxiously awaiting this one. I was not disappointed. I read it in a very short time which is unusual lately. However, this book kept me interested. I am excited for her next book!
Every time I finish a Diane Chamberlain book, I'm reminded why she is at the top of my favorite authors list!! Her stories always have characters I love and care about, and the plot twists are amazing. When I'm reading her novels, I cruise through them, turning pages and finishing chapters faster than I normally do because I have to know what happens next to those characters I adore. This makes for a great read you'll love to curl up with!
What an amazing book. I really enjoyed this book. I will definitely be looking into more books from this author.
I was lucky enough to win an ARC of this book through a Goodreads Giveaway in exchange for an honest review.
I want to thank St. Martin's Press for the gift.This novel was a real pleasant surprise for me.
I usually read thrillers, but I entered the Giveaway contest for this book as the plot looked interesting.
The two huge twists in the last third of the book really took me by surprise--kudos to Ms. Chamberlain for fooling me!
I wanted to know much more about the lives of Riley and Jade subsequent to the last chapter than the epilogue provided.
The Silent Sister is a standalone novel written by author Diane Chamberlain.
Once the storylines intersected, even more was revealed and the novel built up for a perfect climactic ending...the only thing was the ending was far less than climactic.
The truths that were revealed were unfortunately very predictable in my opinion, and with so many possible scenarios available for the ending, I couldn't help but be somewhat disappointed with the author's decision.
Riley is killed in the car accident and never gets to tell her brother Danny the truth about Lisa's crime.
After surviving this long, Danny kills Lisa during their reunion in Riley's hospital room.
Although at times the story was interesting I felt the plot was uneven.
At times over dramatic and the dialogue forced and stilted.
Usually this author does a good job writing women's fiction, aptly straddling the line between wringing excess emotion out of the reader and providing an interesting and quality plot.
This plot and especially the ending seemed implausible.That said I will still read her next novel, because one mishap in my book, does not mean I will not giver her another chance.
I have loved many of her books in the past.ARC from Netgalley.
After the death of her father, Riley MacPherson returns to her childhood home.
Some families are good at covering up the truth and Riley’s family had certainly done that.
He wants nothing to do with the family home or the past and certainly doesn’t want to talk about Lisa, who he blames for the problems in his family.This story sucked me in as others of Diane Chamberlain’s have done.
I liked the character of Riley but found Danny hard to get a handle on and I wasn’t completely convinced by the way it left the end with Danny.
She discovers that her sister Lisa did not commit suicide as her parents told her, but had escaped a murder trial with the help of their father.
Lisa's story could have been intriguing, but I found the woman really stupid and annoying.
Another thing that the author hurried on was the relationship between Celia and Lisa.
The reader never gets the sense of how their relationship develops.
Lisa was also incredibly stupid.
The one thing her father had told her was not to touch a violin ever again because her music would be easily recognisable.
Lisa and Riley meet up and live happily ever after.
I don’t know if I felt the level of suspense the book is supposed to trigger, but I did find it to be a top notch mystery and a very compelling family drama, that left me contemplating all that happened and believing that, yes, punishment and justice does come in all forms, even though I still felt a little conflicted by how everything played out.
In this case Riley could be anyone I know....until her father dies and she comes to discover that her life is full of secrets and lies.
A few of the family secrets were easy for me to figure out, but then I had the benefit of hearing Lisa's story before Riley did.
Chamberlain gives the reader a wonderful story of a young woman who's life is all made up of lies, is nothing that she has been led to believe and we struggle along with her as it all comes tumbling down.
Tenho gostado de todos os livros que tenho lido desta autora. Pelas reviravoltas que as histórias dão, pela riqueza das suas personagens. E este não foi excepção. Apenas achei o final cor de rosa demais, depois de tudo o que aconteceu, mas tal não me impediu de ter gostado muito deste livro. Recomendo sem duvida
I liked especially how Chamberlain managed to portray certain facts that were unknown by each of the characters and used that to heighten the tension for when certain revelations were handed down as the story progressed.The last third of the book seemed a little rushed, but still had an emotional coming to terms for the characters and resolution to each of the promises made by the narrative since the beginning of the work.
Like Chamberlain's other works, I enjoyed the focus on the character interactions, being drawn into their situations and emotions, and following the mystery that built with the respective tensions overall.
And I really hated the impression that the author gave of the character Jeannie, because at first she seems totally creepy and I thought for sure that Riley was going to be ripped off, but no, she turns out to be a central character and very important to the story.
And I know with the kind of character that man was, that there was NO way he would have ever let that go.
Very unrealistic and way too hunky dory of an ending.
There is no way it would work out like that.
She discovers a shocking secret, things aren't always as they appear in her family, and her sister-- who committed suicide 20 years ago-- comes back into play...Can't say too much more without giving away the book!
I will say Diane Chamberlain's writing always leaves me wanting more, and I flew through this book because (once again) I HAD to know what was going to happen.
She does an amazing job of creating cliffhangers and leaving the reader wanting more.
This is only my second Chamberlain book, and I can't wait to read more!ARC provided by Goodreads Firstreads Program.
Once again, fortunately, I began reading this book without remembering much about the blurb.
Just something about a dead sister.
I may do this on purpose from now on, especially when it comes to mystery/thrillers, and wait until I've forgotten all but a vague idea about the plot and a once felt strong desire to read the book in question.
I really enjoyed this mysterious family drama.
I felt the ending was a bit rushed, after all that emotional rollercoaster ride, but other than that it was a very entertaining read.I'll definitely check out the other books of the author in the future.
I enjoyed this, but I do think the scenario is extremely far-fetched. I figured out what was going on before the denouement, but just think it would have been so difficult for any group of people to keep that many secrets. Also, any one being abused would have been highly sympathetic to any jury.
Three children...and then there were two. All was hush, hush about how that happened, and Riley didn't find out why until after both her parents had passed away.As Riley was cleaning out her parents' home, talking to different neighbors, and talking to folks her father had left things to in his will, she had her share of surprises and shocking revelations.THE SILENT SISTER has twists that keep you turning the pages as you learn of secrets that had been kept for years and secrets that only a few
Riley was a likeable character because she had to deal with everything, and she was the character that had to deal with these​ secrets alone.
Riley's parents were not active characters and to me not likeable​, but they, especially her father, carried the storyline and its suspense.
THE SILENT SISTER is an intriguing read with a ​perfec​t ​​title and a storyline filled with riveting ​incidents that were divulged.
Don't miss reading THE SILENT SISTER.
When Riley MacPherson returns home to New Bern, North Carolina following her father's death, she discovers information among his belongings that unveils a lifetime of secrets.I found this to be an interesting story with an underlying message about the cost of withholding secrets from family for their sake.
The toll it took on Riley's self perception and her damaged brother, Danny, was immeasurable.
I thought it was an apt illustration of good intentions gone awry.I liked the story though I figured out the mysteries pretty early and easily.
Also, the narrator delivered a really good performance for quite the cast of characters.
Wow, this book was an amazing combination of family drama and mystery that kept the twists and turns coming with every chapter.
(view spoiler)[ The twists that their father had helped Lisa fake her suicide and kept her secret all this time was juicy enough, but the author kept the twists coming, especially with the reveal that the murder Lisa had been running from doing jail time for had been completely justified after her violin teacher had molested her and in fact, the rape had impregnanted her with Riley.
(hide spoiler)] A very twisted situation, but an impossible to put down story and I completely loved.
3 out of 5 stars - "Everyone has a scar."Riley MacPherson returns to her childhood home to clear out the house and settle the estate of her recently deceased father.
All Riley wants to do is have a relationship with her brother now that the two are orphaned and alone.
Fans of women's fiction centering on family drama will be the likely readers of this newest novel by author Diane Chamberlain.
I've read every single one of her books and keep hoping for one that takes me back to the thrill and satisfaction I felt when reading THE SECRET LIFE OF CEE CEE WILKES.
Let's explore.The core of the novel is promising: Riley (our protagonist) is cleaning out the home of her late father and 'discovers evidence' that her sister, who everyone thinks committed suicide, might be alive.
The reader is forced to wade through a swamp of meaningless information - the father collected pipes, the brother likes to hunt, the suspicious girlfriend has a daughter who is recovering from a drug problem.
False character development litters the novel like a trapdoor in the back of a hall closet: you peer at it, wondering where it might lead, but when you lift the latch, all you see are pipes and dust.More at http://readspoilers.blogspot.com/2015...
Within the first few pages of The Silent Sister, secrets and questions start to emerge.
The suspense builds and rarely lets up in the page turner.What was Jeannie’s relationship with Riley’s father, and why is she so eager to remove certain items from the house?
Why did Riley’s father include one of the trailer park tenants in his will, and why was he writing the guy monthly checks?
And the biggest question of all: What really happened the night Lisa disappeared?
- See more at: http://www.nyjournalofbooks.com/book-...Here's the link to my review of The Silent Sister for New York Journal of Books: http://www.nyjournalofbooks.com/book-...
This book left me completely satisfied.
The story is essentially (and I'm not one to repeat the book summary - that's been done) about a dysfunctional family that has not grown past the trauma of losing the eldest sister, Lisa, to suicide many years ago.
Riley, who was 2 at the time of the suicide, loses her father and comes back home to settle his estate.
It is a book I could read again and find more details that I missed in the first read.Highly recommended to everyone.
Thank you to NetGalley and St. Martin's Press for the opportunity to read this amazing book and provide an honest review.
