https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/817418.Once_upon_a_Summer
Janette Oke's name and the fact that I've known of this novel's existence for years was enough.I was in for three noteworthy surprises from the beginning: first, this story is told in the first person, which isn't common for Oke's novels; second, the protagonist is an adolescent boy, Joshua, which isn't common for Oke's novels; and third, Josh's perspective, along with the well-intentioned but not-the-best-idea scheming of his grandpa and uncle, actually had me laughing aloud, something I'm not used to doing with Oke's novels.
While I found the romance thread to be completely predictable, it was still charming and I enjoyed it.Rating: 4 starsReasons: There was one lengthy chapter that read more like a farming handbook on how to reap crops than an easy-flowing part of the story.
Through the first half of the book, it’s made really clear that Joshua hated school and dreaded going back when summer was over; yet, when school began, he instantly loved it and was eager to study.
This inconsistency was shocking and disconcerting.I am eager to track down a copy of book two in this series.
I've always enjoyed Janette Oke's stories about simpler times.
I always enjoy the little details of how the laundry was done or how much of their lives depended on horses.
Even though I would have liked to see this story from Lou's perspective, having it told by Josh, with all the colloquialisms and contractions, gave it a unique feeling from a bitter boy doubting God.I loved Gramps and Lou and even Nat. I loved the few tidbits of humor.
And of course how Josh's ideas about God changed.I don't know how many times I've read this series, but I will continue to reread it as it never disappoints.
It was far more suited to a very young and unsophisticated reader.
I can say with conviction that she writes for a reader who is not me.
Character development is her strength and I did like her main character, the young boy, Josh, who tells this tale of his life with his great-grandfather, grandfather, great-uncle and very young aunt.
It tries to tell a moral tale and I like that effort.
But, if I am honest, it isn't up to my standards for what I want to get from a novel.
Joshua is a twelve-year old boy who lives with his 18 year-old aunt, his grandfather and his great-uncle and later, his great-grandfather.
Joshua loves his little family and when he discovers that his grandfather and great-uncle start planning to find a husband for his aunt, he does not like it at all.
Joshua turns to God throughout the book to help him through, but also loses his faith.
Janette Oke did a great job telling the story through a 12 year-old boy.
It is the first book in the "Seasons of the Heart" Series and I can't wait to read The Winds of Autumn!
Such a sweet book!! The beginning seemed a little slow to me (though that could've just been my life and reading schedule at the time :P), but everything else about this gem made up for it. :) I loved the relationships with Aunt Lou and "her men" (Grandpa, Uncle Charlie, Gramps, and Josh) and the strong faith woven through the book. I would recommend this book to anyone. Can't wait to read the rest of the series! :D
This was a delightful introduction for me into her writing.What I Liked: I quickly became immersed into the world of Josh Jones and life on the farm with his grandfather, great-grandfather, uncle, and Auntie Lou. It was definitely a refreshing read and I so enjoyed a peek onto the Jones' farm.The story development was very good.
There were a few times I chuckled at the humor in the story and I look forward to reading the second book in this series which I got at a library sale.
The details this author interspersed in this story definitely painted a vivid picture for me.What I Didn't Like: There wasn't too much I disliked about this story.
I liked how this book brought God into it, too--and how it wasn't a bam!
How Josh really had to struggle with his feelings and belief and come to know God for himself.
And I liked how it didn't feel preachy at all, or at least not to me.
And I liked how either Josh, Gramps, Lou, or all three of them would drive her suitors away--all except the right one, of course.
And p.s., totally saw the right choice coming from the first mention of him at the beginning of the book.
It's really rewarding to guess right.
I love Janette Oke books! I read this one Sunday night but forgot to do the review. (I've been having issues with that) I've read this book once before (2017 before I got Goodreads) but it was a good lighthearted book to read again.
Janette Oke is a wonderful writter. If you loved Little House on the Prarie and that's your kind of book, you will love all of Janette Oke's books! They are full of heartwarming stories and good values.
Slightly predictable and character development was lacking, but I found it to be sweet and enjoyable regardless.
I expected this to be boring, but it was actually quite sweet and humorous. I liked it a lot. :)
A little boring for me, but it's an older book(1981) and maybe just not my style (Christian fiction). I'm more of a crime/mystery fiction girl, but I chose the series as part of a book challenge so I will still try to read the other books. 1 down 3 to go!
He blames God for taking away everything he’s ever loved: his mom and dad, his grandmother, and his new puppy.
Now he’s afraid God will take away his Aunt Lou. This story is about a boy who blames God for turning His back on him, but through circumstances and his caring family, he finds love, acceptance and trust in God. What I liked: the characters came alive with cute expressions, true-to-life feelings, desires and doubts.What I didn’t like: Nothing!
I thought this was a good book.
It was a enjoyable, light read with a good Bible message sprinkled in.
:)The perspective of the book was also interesting.
It was told in a first-person from the POV of the youngest in the family, a boy named Josh.
This book was a romance but it was told through the eyes of Josh and I thought that was very interesting.
I didn't mind it in the Love Comes Softly series because it was told in third-person, but that "written-down-accent" thing all the time was SO annoying.
All you need was people living together and loving and helping on another.
That's what made a family- blood-ties and love-bonds.I was right proud to be a member of this family.""Boys weren't supposed to cry-but I cried.
I cried until my eyes ran dry, and then I jest laid and groaned.""I don't understand all about God, but there's one thing that I'm as sure of as the fact that I live and breath.
He loves us.
I felt clean and forgiven- and even better yet, LOVED."
Review written for and posted on Sarah's ReviewsOrphaned as a baby, Josh blames God for his parents' deaths and fears loosing anyone else. So when Aunt Lou comes of age to marry, Josh is determined to do everything in his power to keep her from leaving. First order of business: scarring off the suitors.Set on a farm back when telephones were the new thing, Once Upon a Summer is a heartwarming story that deals with anger, sorrow, and God's love. Slow paced but not dull, this book is a light read - appropriate for all ages.
This is a lovely book, a Christian, pioneer, romance novel that was a pleasure to read. It was told from the perspective of a 12 year old boy, orphaned, being raised by his grandfather, his uncle, and his young aunt who is now his mother figure. It's filled with the hardships and the simple joys that you would find in that time and setting. Jeanette Oke is an excellent writer and she is at her best with this one.
On Christian bookshelves the world over, one can spot a row of Janette Oke's books. So let me try one. Aaaargh! This is sickly sweet Mills and Boon about God-fearing folk. I tried to persevere (mostly for the reading challenge) but in the end extricated myself before I drowned in baby ducklings, twinkly blue eyed Grandpas and melt-in-the-mouth cornbread.
I LOVED this book. Fun, clean, great writing
Sweet. Lovely Christian story.
A very sweet book. It was slow with hardly any suspense but I enjoyed it all the same.
It starts with Josh and his family getting news that Josh’s great grandma, whom he has never met, died.
So Grandpa comes around and Lou and Nat officially date and when they were ready, they got married.ConsA couple cons of the book would be that the language was very informal and broken, making it sort of hard to read.
Also, I would say there was a couple parts in the book that didn’t have a lot of meaning, making them a little boring.Offensive ContentThe language, as I mentioned before, was very broken and informal, some of which could be seen as offensive by some.
The older teens prefer other genres, so I never tried it with them, but this child thoroughly enjoyed it with me.Grandpa and his brother, Uncle Charlie, (whom my teen called "the Grandpa Society") tried to find a romantic match for Aunty Lou. But, Josh and Gramps, (whom my teen dubbed "the Home-Alone Society," after the movie) tried to derail and sabotage all of the candidates.
The tone of "Winds of Autumn" was more serious than "Once Upon a Summer," though, and I think maybe the reader should be a little older.
I loved the relationship between Grandpa, Uncle Charles, Auntie Lou and Joshua.
Grandpa and Uncle Charles' attempts at finding a beau for Lou where hysterical and I loved the role Joshua played in trying to nix them along with Gramps after he moved in.
FAVORITE QUOTES: "Memories are beautiful things, Boy. When the person that ya loved is gone, when the happy time is over, then ya've still got yer memories.
That's what made a family--blood-ties and love-bonds.""I realized that I had some memories, too.
Like families, memories didn't come in only one kind of package."
I really enjoyed the story of Josh Jones and his unusual family.
Like a lot of Janette Oke books, Once Upon a Summer really takes off in the middle of the story and you find yourself enjoying it without realising when you began too.
And it isn't the usual Janette Oke story of romance either.Josh has been raised by his Grandpa, Uncle Charlie and his pretty, young Auntie Lou. When it suddenly occurs to Grandpa and Uncle Charlie that Auntie Lou is ready for marriage, they take it upon themselves to find an appropriate suitor - with hilarious results.
it didn't really interest me, but it was in one of those cute little free library things by people's homes, so I was like 'Why not?'.I really loved this book.
this book had it all!
I normally don't like romance, but it really spiced this book up a bit.
It was kind of funny (view spoiler)[when Grandpa and Uncle Charlie tried to match-make Lou with guys to marry her off, but she really didn't like any of them.
She feel in love with the new preacher and Grandpa/Uncle Charlie didn't like him..
it's confusing just read the book!
Half of me loves the perspective from the nephew-but-brotherly type.
The other wishes there could be a first look at the romance, because it would be amazing to see things from Aunt Lou's perspective--Josh's totally unromantic personality doesn't do it quite justice.
The way it was written, however, was appropriate.
And unique.Josh's narration sounded just like he was speaking (leaving the g's off of his 'ing' verbs), which was a little strange; I guess it was to feel the setting more, but it didn't really succeed with me.
But the setting was amazing, anyway.
Even though I couldn't really figure out the exact time period.
Totally sweet, just like I expect from Janette Oke. Josh is twelve and narrates this story.
I really love how the great grandfather comes to live with Josh's family (his grandfather, great uncle, and Aunt Lou).
The great grandfather made the story for me.
The attempted matching-making for young Aunt Lou is humorous and I couldn't wait to see how each one played out.
Lou manages to pull through some clumsy attempts by these men, with great grandfather and Josh as the quiet dissenters who cheer her on while she finds her own way.
I love this household!
A very good bookI wanted a nice easy read to sit back and step into another time and this was perfect. By the end of this book I fell in love with this boy and his family. It has hard working people living a simple life on the farm in a small town filled with love. Can't wait for book 2.
