https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41014305-the-other-side-of-the-story
1. Gemma.
And don't even get me started on Gemma's mother.
What an IDIOT.
I can understand being devastated after your husband of thirty-five years leaves you for a younger woman, but to make your idiot daughter take care of you for MONTHS as if you're terminally ill?
I actually liked Jojo.
Every time I reached a Jojo chapter, I breathed a small sigh of relief at having been done a ridiculous Gemma one.3.
But what an idiot with money, and she was such a WIMP.
Reading a Lily chapter was like watching a train wreck, and then it just got old.
I found instead that i was addicted to the three main characters' stories.
This book is a typical girly novel, where the main characters are obsessed with their relationships.
Gemma is pining over her ex and is oblivious to the fact that she would be better off with her friend Johnny.
Lily is worried about the fact that she stole Gemma's boyfriend and that Gemma will seek revenge and Jojo is the object of a man's affair, and is desperately waiting for him to leave his wife.
The novel is, as i said before, highly addicting and very enjoyable.
My favorite character in this book was the 2-year old Ema, who reminds me so much of my own 3-year old, always coming through with something hilarious to bring joy back into joyless situations.
“Filthy.”Another passage:Daily, I continued to write, the words pouring from me, and every night, when we put Ema to bed, I read that day’s work and Mum raved about it.
I felt like I could go on reading about these characters for much longer than the 500+ pages Keyes delivered.I’m not offering much in the way of plot lines here, but the book really gets into the publishing industry, which I found fascinating.
The heroine of this book is a fun loving Irish girl who gets stuck in the middle of many misfortunes.
This book is a page turner and keeps the reader wondering what will happen to the heroine until the very end.
She takes her misfortunes and she makes them positive, and in the end her life might turn out better then it was before.This is a fun read if you would like to do some light reading before bed, or lounging around on a Saturday afternoon.
I love Marian Keyes books soooo much and this was all sorts of happy, enjoyable, cringe worthy and heart warming. I do love a book that tugs at my heart strings.
I'm rather enjoying listening to this book as I drive to work and home each day, although I do find myself talking in a strange Irish accent :)
Gemma - she was bearable, but so, so bitchy.
She's so hung up on losing her man that she considers his daughter "half mine".
I'm rereading this just because I'm busy and still want to read - can put this book down easily.Lily: she and her partner Anton were unbearable.
I don't live in the real world per se, being just 18 and living at home, but I know that buying Jimmy Chos and renovating with no money is so stupid.
Gemma's Mam: I can't stand to read pages with her.
I really, really wanted to like this book more than I did.I loved the idea, and some of the writing was brilliant, but it was the characters that let it down for me.Gemma was kind of forgettable and a bit arrogant, although I'll admit that I took her side over the whole Lily thing.
In addition, I just found her to be so over the top and exciting that she seemed a bit cartoonish.In all I enjoyed this book, but just not as much as I've enjoyed other Keyes novels.
I do so enjoy Marian Keyes' books; they're thick and full of real people and a combination of everyday and extraordinary circumstances, and I am always at least curious about how things will come out, if not actively caring.
This one involved three protagonists, and the bookjacket blurb drew a few links between them, and I expected there to be a big encounter between the three of them, but they seemed never to be in the same room at the same time.
Not that I didn't enjoy it, but the "only sort of" linking didn't quite work for me.
Firstly, I would just like to boast that I read this 600+ page book in ONE DAY.
I've always found it slightly distressing, actually, to read or watch characters who have no idea about managing money go about wrecking their lives.
And things weren't 'very' tempting, oh no, they were 'way, WAY' tempting, like, you know?Hmmm...but I still read it all in one day!
I like Marian Keyes, that's why I bought this book.
I always think that every writer sort of take something from the writer's life into the book.
Especially the first book.
And, I sometimes think Marian Keyes does the same.
But, so what, if Marian Keyes decided to write from something happened in her true life?
This time, in The Other Side of The Story, it's her life as a writer.
I guess.It's a book of writer, and publisher.
When ideas flowing like a river through the hands of the writer, when writer's block arrived.
You can get a glimpse of what's writer life look like?
But unfortunately, 2 out of 3 protags were annoying.Protag #1 is a whiny, revenge-seeking crazy-person whose boyfriend moves to London (from Dublin) and then hooks up with her friend.
She has a melt down near the end, which is kind of annoying, but luckily, she moves past that quickly and gets back to her normal self.Protag #1 writes a book as well about her parents but only wants Protag #3 to rep it because she reps Protage #2 and she wants to bring her down because she stole her boyfriend.
I hate shit like this automatically.
Gemma is hilarious and Jojo is fabulous, but Lily is just self-centred and boring.
I don't know how but Keyes makes me desperately sorry for Jojo stuck as a mistress and of course you feel for Gemma as life seemingly crumbles.
And really your life isn't do bad - beautiful child, loving partner & book published!
But you expect nothing less in this genre.My only question to the author would be this: did you realise as you were panning Lily and Gemma's books that you were also writing a bunch of unrealistic nonsense in the same genes as their's?
I've met her twice.
She is one of the loveliest women I have ever met.
I had a lot of fun with it because it was about an author, a literary agent and an event planner (I've worked in the book biz for years and have also worked as an event planner).
The book is told from the points of view of all three women who know each other and who's lives intersect but not so much that you are hearing the same story three times.
Bad review, fun book.A perfect beach read!
I didn't enjoy this one as much as "Sushi for beginners." For whatever reason, the characters of this novel were not as easy to sympathize with--I spent a good deal of time wanting to smack the three leading females...or at least try to re-make their lives.
Marianne Keyes is back to her best with her latest offering about three whacky women in the London Publishing World.
Lily as an author, by choice, Gemma, as her rival, by chance, and Jojo as a literary agent.I loved the insider’s view onto this world of words and wordsmiths and the people who make their money from both of them.
She’s also still yearning for her true love, Anton, who left her for London and her best friend, Lily.Lily is an author who hits on a magical recipe with her flighty book, “Mimi’s Remedies” after years of struggling to have her real work published.
Marian Keyes manages to win my heart again.
After now reading three books, I can safely say Marian is one of my favourite authors.
I don't often read chick lit, but when I do I generally lean towards books set in the UK/Ireland.
And I know that I've enjoyed a book when I am thoroughly and intensely frustrated with one of the characters, because everyone feels that way in real life about at least one person they know.
There were a lot of moments where I was completely shocked and moved by the story, Marian has yet again managed to influence me and make me feel as though I am a part of the story and these people are my friends.
Lily I sort of liked, but sort of didn't.
I really really disliked Anton, I never figured out what Lily, or Gemma, saw in him.
He hurt Gemma, and even though they were broken up at the time he didn't even care.
Even though Lily was so upset over it, he still didn't care!
And he was happy to sit back and be depressed over his crap job and let Lily stress over writing without even bothering to try and do anything to save them.
I liked the way the story was told from every viewpoint, so that you got to fully understand what happened.
Whilst this is a standard chic lit I'd be happy to pass on and never read again, it's actually really good!
With three female characters whose lives intertwine with each other, there's enough space to love, hate and disagree with who you lie.
I also love the fact that although all the characters find their own peace by the end of the book - in true chic lit style - they don't all follow the standard fairy tale format.
Sometimes who you love isn't right and I'm glad to see that Keyes promotes the fact that it's okay to walk away from them.
Marian y su sensibilidad innata para narrar los hechos de la vida cotidiana hacen que leerla siempre sea un placer. Gran historia.
Marian Keys takes chick lit and makes it deep. Yet still hilarious with just enough love and romance. Despite the length of this book I finished it in two days because I could not stop reading!
"Marian Keyes does not know what it feels like to write a less than great book."
I felt desperately sorry for Gemma (an event planner who would like to be an author), whose mother latched onto her when her father left her for another woman, and wouldn't even let Gemma spend the night in her own apartment for almost a year.
And yet, Gemma spends her spare time plotting against a former friend, Lily (an author), who ended up with Gemma's "boyfriend", although it's not clear to me that they were really still involved when it happened.
Jojo ends up representing both Lily and Gemma eventually.
Lily is living with Anton.
And while Man troubles do beset the characters, it definitely isn't the 'be-all-and-end-all' of their lives.I have to admit to not liking Gemma to start with, and really not liking her Mum, who seemed too dippy for words, but she did grow on me towards the end.
- and really liked how her story progressed.
Lily - hmmm - a hard one as, to be honest, her story seemed the least focused, but again, I liked her ending.So overall, highly recommended reading - a chance to enjoy something light and entertaining.
Ich habe das Buch echt genossen. Es war angenehm zu lesen, witzig und interessant (wenn man nur von Jojo ausgeht). Gemma's Part war auch ganz gut aber Lily hat mich so etwas von genervt. Sie gibt quasi jedem die Schuld an allem ausser sich selbst. Ich habe bei ihren Kapiteln das meiste nur überflogen. Ansonsten war es, wie gesagt, ein gutes Chick-Lit Buch.
As a mum to two young children I thoroughly enjoy Marian Keyes’ books. Apparently it’s all my brain can handle at the moment (I attempted Shantaram a couple of weeks ago, who was I kidding?!!).
The next one is Jojo, their agent, she is having an affair with her Manger, Mark and these three ladies lives intertwine.What I feel about the characters is that they were annoying, well, Gemma is the most annoying and easily-to-hate of the three of them.
In addition, she has nothing to do with her life she, somehow, stalks and wants to know everything about Lily and Anton, and keeps hoping that they will brake up , I mean, come on get a life you brat!!!
I guess it was because it is somehow three small stories in one book, I don't know.At some point I felt like I preferred reading about Cody or Johnny or Jim's stories rather than these women.
Lily surprised me, after reading Gemma’s story I expected not to like this man-stealer but actually I took to her really quickly and discovered that what happened wasn’t all black and white.
I suppose the title to this story says it all really!I always love books that have inside information on agents/publishers/authors and this book had lots of it, I find it so interesting to see how things work behind the scenes.Some other funny moments to look out for when reading this book are Lesley Lattimore’s wedding – the wedding planning and even the day itself had me chuckling, and another part that was very funny was when Lily and Anton had the builders in, I loved their nicknames!The story really heated up towards the end as unexpected things happened and I just had to know how it would all turn out so I couldn’t stop reading.
This book was very disappointing.
It was supposed to be a story of three ladies whose lives are connected through the publishing world; a publishing agent and two authors who happen to be two ex-best friends (obviously because of a Guy… DAAHHHH).
Unfortunately, the author failed at coming up with another side to the story that would make me sympathize or relate to the characters.
At least with the two ex-best friends there were two different versions of the same story regardless of how unconvincing it was.
I kinda thought this book was boring.
We all have a bad day and I suppose what I did like was the description of the publishing side ...
Gemma's story was ...
Dad falls in love with his secretary and leaves his wife.
Lily is Gemma's friend.
Well they used to be friends until Lily falls in love with Gemma's ex.
Lily's just released her book - a bestseller.So that's it.
Sprinkle with a bit of relationship and you have "The other side of the story".I did like a lot of the Lily's soul-searching.
