https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1112665.Shadow_Castle
One of those books when encountered young that will haunt you for years, if only trying to dredge up the title in your head or answer those conversations that begin "did you ever hear about a book where...." Cockrell wrote a fairly simple (and often slightly twee) twisting of classic fairytales into a novel for children -- but there's a spark too of a deeper story. If you encounter Mika, Gloria, and the reason behind the shadows before age 10, you'll find yourself haunted too.
Before I read this book again I was prepared to give it 5 stars for being a childhood favorite.
I deducted one star for the names Flumpdoria, Flame and Glauz.
Klux is about as unfortunate as naming your child Adolf.I deducted another star for the vegetarian dragon.
One more star had to go for the number of sentences ending in prepositions.
There are not many of us so we need to stick together.Finally, one more star for being the first book I recall reading using the word "gadzooks!"An that is how I arrived at my rating.
There are those books we read as a child and never forget.
I couldn't tell you how many times I would run across this book as a kid, stop whatever I was doing, and sit right there for HOURS and re-read it.
My grown-up, jaded self easily disregards books like this all the time, but not this one.
I couldn't tell you what it is about the story or prose that so completely sucks me in, I only know that it does.
I adored this book then, and I still do now.
A long overdue review: http://perfectretort.blogspot.com/201...It is wonderful that this book is back in print. My copy growing up was a hardcover printed during WWII (it had been my mother's) on paper nearly as thin as tissue paper, with a plain dark green cover.
This is the first fantasy that I remember reading. I was probably 10 or so. I always remembered it fondly and saved my copy for many years for my someday children. Well I read it to my boys and they loved it too. It may not have been quite as magical as it was all those years ago but it stood up well to an adult read, especially as I was reading it out loud to my sons.
I escaped into this book so many times as a child. It is, pure and simple, a wonderful fairy tale. If you or a child you know loves fairies, magic, dragons, secret enchantments and more, make sure to add it to your bookshelf.
While it doesn't really stand the test of time for me as an adult reader, I was surprised at how many passages I remembered vividly and was delighted to remember the ways those passages had struck a chord with my 10-year-old self.
This book has the elements of a childhood classic: parents absent (naturally); adventures found at the end of a trail you've passed a dozen times; mysterious castle in a clearing just the other side of that hedge; battles with goblins; a friendly, vegetarian dragon; and one or two princesses and princes who fall in love at first sight.
I remember them vividly, as well as the many stories I invented around these pictures.
I adored this book when I was growing up. I remember finishing it and instantly re-reading it - over and over again. After years of trying to recall a title and fruitless searches online - I finally found it again. Would I give it five stars if I were reading it for the first time as an adult? No. Probably 3.5. But there is something to be said for the magic of a book that has stayed with you for over 40 years. And for that I'll give it a resounding five stars.
Long ago and far away, in a summer idyll, a girl lay in tall grass in the shade of a chestnut tree and read this book, lost in another world, transported there by a magician named Marian who had cast a silver spell on the child. The child returned to her own world as evening fell, but she always carried the memories of the magical realm with her, like a secret locket that lay against her heart.IT'S ME! THAT GIRL WAS ME! In case you missed it :)
1953 was about the year that I first read this book, 52 years ago, and have been looking for it ever since. I thought it was absolutely magical to read this in 3rd grade. It was pre t.v. and Harry Potter and goblins, and such books were not that plentiful then. Still think it is a good little book and hope my grandchildren will like it.
If I were on a desert island and could only have five books with me, this book would be one of them. It is a childhood favorite for both my mom and me. Even my friends from high school read it and loved it.
My very favorite childhood book. I had forgotten the name of it and finally just found it again. Anyone who loves fantasy books should read this. If it were written today it would be a best seller!!
I can see how this book would be good for young kids but I'm just too old and it's just too simple.
If you enjoy Disney's animated Sleeping Beauty, you'll enjoy this too!
CleanlinessChildren's Bad WordsName Calling - 5 Incidents: stupid, idiotReligious Profanity - 4 Incidents: for heaven's sake, gracious, goodnessReligious & Supernatural - 1 Incident: Fairies, witches, wizards, elves, goblins, dragons, witches' "demons", magic and spells, these are all throughout the book as it is a fairy tale.Romance Related - 1 Incident: There is fairy tale romance throughout the book: falling in love at first sight, thinking she's the most beautiful woman in the world, kisses (non-descriptive) and marriage.For a full cleanliness report, which includes Conversation Topics, Illustrations and Parent Takeaway, visit my website.
Author: Marian CockrellTitle: Shadow Castle expanded ed.Description (source): In the middle of a deep forest is an enchanted valley and a castle where only shadows live, shadows of kings and queens who have waited for hundreds of years for the spell cast upon them to be broken.
This new expanded Author's Edition contains additional chapters never published before!
So, the review is mostly about the two new stories, since it’s a given that the rest of the book is 5*.
The second new story is about a descendant of Meira and Julian, Princess Flame, and her recalcitrant genie, and a fire fairy we meet in the Robin/Mika story.
Shadow Castle was passed down to me at age 10 from a favorite Aunt.
As I grew, I must have read this book 3-4 times per year.
When I became a mother, I wanted to pass along this delightful story once my boys were old enough to listen to what they called a "chapter book".
They too selected this book to be read 3-4 times per year.
When I am feeling jaded and raw from things that happen around me, I will pick up Shadow Castle for a good story that has the ability to transport me back to my childhood.
recently re-read.
this was my favorite childhood book - i remember buying it with my own money through the scholastic book club :-)45 years later, Princess Bluebell and Prince Michael still charm me.
There are fairies and magic and goblins and a vegetarian dragon and a witch and a djinn, and Lucy listens in rapt attention to all of it for the whole day, before having to dash off home again, but not before Michael gives her his dog and a magical ring and tells her she can come back to the enchanted valley whenever she wants to.I wish there were a sequel to this in which Lucy would go back into the enchanted valley and actually have some bigger adventures of her own—I'd like her to have more of a chance to be an active character, as opposed to just listening.
The fairies, elves, magical mouse, west wind, Flumpdoria, dragon, mountain covered in flowers--all were enchanting.As to things I found to be less delightful--I don't like Gloria and Mika much when they are first introduced and married.
When asked if she wants to marry Mika, Gloria replies "Er-yes-on the whole I think I do." I like the two of them better in Robin's story.
Second, much like her mother Gloria, she becomes suddenly hesitant when it comes to marrying her prince, seeming out of character and noncommittal.
On the whole, though, the lovely story is satisfying and ends in a mysterious question...
This was my favorite fantasy when I was a kid, and I still re-read it every so often.
Yes, it could stand updating as to genre roles (I would LOVE to be part of a graphic novel for this!), but the tale is timeless and exciting.
(I've named two cats after Branstookah.)A word of warning: It isn't necessary to get the expanded version of the book.
Apparently the original editors were wise in editing out some chapters that were repetitive of other adventures already in the book.This is all just a delight.
You'll love it!
Your kids will, too!
As a girl this was one of the first fantasy books that captured my attention and made me fall in love with the genre. Reading it again after more than 20 years I'm surprised to find that it is still beautiful. The missing chapters that have been replaced are just as good as the rest of the book and I can't imagine why the publishers removed them in the first place. I'm so glad it is back in print so I can share it with my nieces.
This is perhaps the first book I ever remember reading by myself. At least, this is the one that stuck with me. For years, I couldn't remember the title. Then one day I ran across it as a yard sale. I was so happy to discover it again. My daughter was less impressed but she was older by then. Easy read (obviously) but a cute story, one which stayed with me over the years.
This is my all time FAVORITE book! I have read it many times and I would gladly read it again. Not many people have heard of it, and I think most people would like it. This book is very magical and I would recommend the expanded version. I think it adds a nice touch to the end of the story. It has many different little stories that all come together at the end in a nice, right-sized, book.
My favorite childhood book...and one that I have reread many times over the years. Still reading the same Scholastic paperback bought at some point in the 1960s. It's getting a little fragile! I just love this book.
Read this over and over like a fixation when I was single digits old. First real fantasy book that I was ga-ga over. I lost my copy and just now ordered a new one from Amazon. Thanks, Goodreads! WOW! I love this site!
I loved this book as a child. I always remembered Princess Bluebell and her story. I adored the illustrations. If you like a good fairy tale and if you can find this book, you need to pick it up. Granted, I have not read this book since I was a young girl so my view on it maybe biased.
I read this as a child and I absolutely loved it! It had goblins, magic, a prince, a princess and a dragon. When I re-read it as an adult, I thought the writing was pretty bad and unoriginal. But I'll never forget how it fed my imagination and my love to read.
This was one of my favorite books as a child, and pieces of it permeate everything fantastical that I try to write. It is both safe and dangerous enough for children, and yet the implications of the world these people live in is alarming and painful as an adult.
This was my favorite as a little girl. I had my mom read it to me a ridiculous amount of times. I found it again as an adult and I still love it (although not quite as much as I did when I was in grade school).
