https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/363711.The_Savage_Tales_of_Solomon_Kane
(Howard passed away at the age of 30; the first Solomon Kane story was published when he was around the age of 22)What are mortals but food for the jaws of the black gods?This is a fantastic collection and I can’t really imagine anybody not enjoying these stories (at least to an extent).
I haven’t had this much fun since reading Who Fears The Devil by Manly Wade Wellman.Two hideous eyes flamed at him – eyes which held all the stark horror which has been the heritage of man since the fearful dawn ages – eyes frightful and insane, with an insanity transcending earthly insanity.Expect some delightfully descriptive prose as protagonist Solomon Kane goes up against all kinds of natural and otherworldly threats and explores all manner of lost cities and forgotten catacombs, across continents.
Pois se houvesse, o Salomão Kane estaria lá, e eu analisá-lo-ia mais atentamente antes de o trazer para casa.Não gosto de romances só com beijinhos mas, também não gosto de romances sem beijinhos; e este Salomão, "estranha mistura de Puritano e Cavaleiro" dedica-se apenas a manter a justiça e a proteger os desvalidos a "fio de espada".Depois da introdução desnecessária (e mentirosa, pois tenho este livro há anos - de um tempo antes da Grande Invasão das Rosas Algemadas - e em miúda lia livros de cowboys), vamos lá ao que interessa.
Com um grande sentimento de culpa, e porque o li por alto, dou-lhe duas estrelas baixinhas.
I also read Solomon Kane...and I like the stories.This book includes all the stories plus poetry and fragments of stories.
Still the stories are dark and full of blood tinged with black magic for our hero to battle.I do want to put a warning in here as I have to do for many books of the era and before.
I think most will be able to enjoy the stories as stories but the attitudes shown will be hard to take for some and will often have to be set aside.So, why 4 stars?
A bit sad I suppose.
The speculative fiction elements in several stories are a plus for me; but the common denominator of the tales is the action-adventure motif and the antique setting, which is reflected in my Goodreads shelving decisions.Since the African stories often bring Kane into contact with blacks, a word is warranted about Howard's racial attitudes and language; the latter is at times definitely insensitive, and the former were shaped by the Darwinist pseudo-science of his day, which was unashamedly racist.
The dark hero Solomon Kane leads us into the world of ancient secrets and the monsters that live in the jungles of Africa.
Howard, in this book of the guide us through the character Puritan hero Solomon Kane that although brutal with his enemies, always was there to avenge poor and innocent people.
Although Kane appearance fears evil, evil person is not afraid to attack him, but he has no mercy with the creature of darkness.
All in all the stories in the book are interesting and the fantasy world of Africa where they are located.
La sombra del buitre vale, por sí solo, la pena.
I remember – and still have – the Science Fiction Book Club editions edited by the late Karl Wagner and I think any consideration of the best fantasy writing has to include “Beyond the Black River” and “A Witch Shall Be Born,” at the very least, but I was never much interested in reading any of the non-Conan stories Howard wrote.* I was always intrigued, however, by what I heard about “Solomon Kane” – a Puritan soldier-of-fortune who went around smiting the wicked.
In one of the earliest stories of the collection, Kane is traveling through England, where he comes across a dying girl, the sole survivor (for about five minutes) of a bandit attack on her village.
She dies in Kane’s arms.Kane proceeds to wage a long guerilla war against the bandits, until it at last comes down to him and their leader.
(Witchfinder General, you should read this book…)Most of the stories in this collection follow a chronology of a sort.
There’s some neat poetry in the collection too, as well as a few story fragments that I believe have not been published before.
Wings in the Night:Solomon Kane runs afoul of a cannibal and gets drawn into a situation involving harpies.
It's almost more horror than fantasy.The Footfalls Within:Kane gets captured by slave traders.
More info about his staff is revealed before the caravan runs across an ancient tomb with something malevolent trapped inside...Once again, Howard throws Kane into a horror story, this time an ancient evil from the time of Solomon.
Still, Kane's stories are chilling adventures, more akin to horror than fantasy.

Executive Summary: This was a disappointment. I signed up to review this for SFF Audio trying something I wouldn't have read otherwise, but I mostly found myself bored.Audio book: Paul Boehmer does a pretty good job here. I'd listened to him before with the Night Angel Trilogy, and enjoyed him again with this book. He does some voices for the various characters. I think if this collection had a bad reader I would have stopped before the end. Full Review I don't normally seem to enjoy older works
The audiobook collection stars with an obituary or memorium written by H.P. Lovecraft with whom Mr. Howard apparently corresponded.Mr. Howard is probably best known for his character Conan, but Solomon Kane is often credited as the first "Sword & Sorcery" character.In this collection of stories Solomon Kane fights Pirates, Ghosts, Vampires, Sorcerors, Harpies and more.
You can pull out the usual excuses, when the book what written, or the fact that the racism portrayed is probably accurate to the characters themselves.
I think the best complete story was The Hills of the Dead where Kane first gets his magic staff and fights a horde of vampires.2.5 Stars
Kane is perfect for his stories, his somber personality,style creates the weird atmosphere for the stories so seamlessly.
But stories like Red Shadows, Hills of the Dead, Wings in the Night is very hard to improve on when it comes to stark atmosphere, quality stories in the realm between fantasy,horror.
The high quality stories overshadow the more flawed stories like Moon of the Skulls.The prose of Howard was more crisp,toned down in that it wasnt too colorful and thats why i enjoyed these stories so much.
His prose style and Solomon Kane stories was a perfect fit.
Personally its a bonus to read and enjoy his creepy,hellish African settings for some of the stories.
It is his insanity that partially keeps him alive in the most hostile of places, like the jungles of deep Africa where much of this stuff is purported to take place.Oh, there are the usual Howard clichés here: helpless ladies who throw themselves at Kane's feet, dark-skinned natives that are either bestially evil or, more often in these tales of seventeenth century Africa, depicted as noble savages.
He teases Kane about his religion, his crusade and his stiff, dour ways, but ultimately calls him "blood brother" and helps him out, because they are working toward the same end most of the time.
He is a man of violence, filled with a wander-lust to seek out what he judges as evil with a determination and recklessness that is psychotic.What makes Solomon Kane so endearing to read is, on one hand, Solomon Kane is the archetypal swash-buckler -- much like a character from a Robert Louis Stevenson adventure story.
It reminded me of when I was too young to be allowed to read such violent and terrifying tales but did so anyway because I knew therein were hidden truths of adventures still left in this world that my parents didn't want me to know about.
Las primeras historias de la recopilación me parecían repetitivas y machaconas con el tema del justiciero movido solo por la venganza atravesando países enteros para acabar con los malvados.
Pero tras darle un descanso y retomar la lectura me encontré con un cambio de tono en los ultimos relatos, la sed de venganza cambia hacia la sed de aventura, hacia la llamada de la selva, y como Solomon Kane se adentra en el continente negro para encontrarse con horrores de eones pasados, tribus perdidas y civilizaciones olvidadas.
Las descripciones y el tono se vuelve mucho mas opresivo, los peligros para el protagonista mucho mas mortales y por supuesto la diversión para el lector aumenta proporcionalmente.
Birbirinden ürpertici hikayelerden oluşan küçük çizimlere sahip devasa bir kitaptı samanyolundaki Salihten hallice herkesi koruyup kollayan kötülere kan kusturan intikam peşinde koşan Solomon Reis seni unutmayacağım..
Además, el volumen se cierra con un noveno cuento de corte histórico protagonizado por Sonja la Roja.Para quien no lo conozca, Solomon Kane es un puritano, adusto y de mirada fría, un fanático justiciero que se dedica en sus vagabundeos a impartir su ley allá donde cree que se están cometiendo atrocidades o brujerías.
No hay que olvidar que Howard fue uno pionero de la fantasía heroica, y de espada y brujería, y esto se nota.Estos son los nueve relatos incluidos en ’Las extrañas aventuras de Solomon Kane’:Cráneos en las estrellas (****).
I mean...I WANT to say I liked it as much as his Conan stuff, but I didn't.
For those who are unfamiliar, the term "puritan" in this sense refers to the people who were too strict and forlorn for even the Catholic church at this point, so I mean...it gives you a good idea of how fun this fucking guy is gonna be.
Listen, I know I've harped on the "Conan is better" thing long enough at this point, but like a third of these stories felt like dumb, racist Howard "AMONG THE AFRICAN SAVAGES" stuff.
The only black character who is portrayed as anything approaching Kane’s equal is the West African shaman N’Longa – but that character falls into the old “magical Negro” stereotype (google it) and is the exception rather than the rule.The Solomon Kane stories do shine with originality and some of Howard’s best poetry, but every now and then he drops a race-bomb, such as this passage from the otherwise fantastic story “Wings in the Night” –…the ancient empires fall, the dark-skinned peoples fade and even the demons of antiquity gasp their last, but over all stands the Aryan barbarian, white-skinned, cold-eyed, dominant, the supreme fighting man of the earth…(slaps face and shakes head)So – a good and necessary read for the Howard fan, but not the place to begin for newcomers.
This is written in a similar style, but it misses a lot of the fun factor of Conan.
Conan was able to, from time to time, know when to call it quits and get the hell out of Dodge, usually when the ancient temple to forgotten gods was falling down around him, or when the elder god of utter, unspeakable darkness du jour was killing everyone else around him and he had no personal reason to try and fight and kill it.
Yet as time goes on, Kane's attitude towards the other magics and religions (and, as an extension of such, cultures) of the world changes and he becomes more accepting of them, and in the end, even accepts them as tools in his arsenal to fight against evil and injustice.
Solomon Kane came along to me many years later, in the form of some collected short works and eventually comic books.
Howard, including short stories and even fragments and alternate tales, such as the tale of Kane's homecoming.
Within these pages we have Solomon Kane fighting all over Europe against sorcery and the black hearts and vile acts of truly evil men.
One would think this would be anathema to one such as Kane, and yet he carries the carved cat's head staff across Africa, dispatching evils and destroying otherworldly creatures from foul dimensions that Man should never come across.
Muy divertidas las historias del tremendo Solomon Kane. La edición de Valdemar contiene las 8 que fueron publicadas en la revista Weird Tales y, como extra, un cuento de Sonia la Roja.
Howard Solomon Kane stories.
He can detail characters and create complicated plot lines in less pages than most well known writers can in full-length books.
This book is a testament to that fact.Solomon Kane is an earlier character of Howard's described as "a strange blending of Puritan and Cavalier, with a touch of the ancient philosopher, and more than a touch of the pagan, though the last assertion would have shocked him unspeakably.
The work is illustrated throughout by artist Gary Gianni, adding to the story lines.
Solomon Kane is my favorite Howard Character.
Imagine if Stephen King had died at thirty...the world would have considered him a one-hit wonder with CARRIE.THE SAVAGE TALES OF SOLOMON KANE is no LORD OF THE RINGS, yet it's still pretty impressive coming from a guy in his 20's.
Regardless of their lack of literary sophistication, however, all the stories in this collection are fun and guaranteed to bring a smile to the face of any true lover of fantasy.
My biggest complaint with THE SAVAGE TALES OF SOLOMON KANE is that it presents several of Howard's story fragments, rather than the completed versions in collaboration with author Ramsey Campbell.
The most interesting parts are where Howard describes the action scenes whether Kane fights with blade or bullet, whether he battles men or beasts Howard describes them in unmistakable splendor.
I was in fact enthralled with the action scenes in a book written so long ago, showing us why Howard was the master of the craft.Recommended for those who love quick,wild reads...don't insert logic and spoil the fun though !!!
Alright, I'm just going to list some things...Puritan avenger with Thankgiving pagent hat, white socks, and buckle shoes.Twin flintlock pistols.Broadsword beheadings.Pirates vs. Puritans.Naked over-sexed ebony skinned Satan-worshiping jungle princesses.Ruined jungle cities.Zombies.A Lovecraftian demon imprisoned by King Solomon.Need I go on? True pulp if there ever was. This volume collects all of Howard's Kane stories, including the unfinished drafts. Beautiful artwork as well.
I'm sure that Howard's fantasy was mind-blowing back in the 30s, but I get the sense that most people who praise him nowadays do so mostly out of nostalgia. I give him props for making his main character a hardcore Puritan who walks the earth righting wrongs and kicking ass. Otherwise I was pretty bored.
Solomon Kane was the birth of Urban Fantasy. Anyone who thinks otherwise hasn't read him. It's probably the reason Jim Butcher keeps insisting that Dresden doesn't wear a hat, but the cover artist keeps adding one. Fantastic illustrations by Gary Gianni, which is no doubt a redundant sentence.
I didn't care much for the hero. My prejudices against religion, I guess.
