https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11989.The_Plague
The people of Camus' Oran -- formerly thoughtless, happy citizens that were, like many of us now, going about their merry ways not knowing how lucky they truly were -- become stricken by the plague.
Do we live like the people of Oran, going through each day without truly thinking, taking things for granted, going through the motions in an ignorant, opiated stupor?
Or do we look death -- and by extension, life -- in the eye, taking nothing for granted, noticing and appreciating our complexities and gifts, endeavoring for truth, and striving to be good people?
Albert Camus’ The Plague is a laugh RIOT!
The surface story is about plague in the early 1940s visiting the Algerian coastal city of Oran.
Here is not an anodyne essayist but rather a vibrant athlete and vocal member of the French resistance; Camus is a masterful but reluctant artist.
The enduring residents of Oran do not so much fight and prevail as they simply survive, but Camus emphasizes that the act itself of fighting, the performance of resisting the devastating force of nature makes them stronger, makes them worthy of survival regardless of whether or not they do survive.
- أرأيت يا دكتور ؟ إنّها تخرج قالت الزوجة :- نعم ، لقد التقط جارنا ثلاثة منها .ثم أخذ العجوز يفرك يديه و هو يقول : -إنّها تخرج ، ويعثرون عليها في كل صندوق من صناديق القمامة المنزلية . إنّه الجوع !قال الدكتور :- أمر غريب بالفعل !!صرخ العجوز :- إنّــــها الكارثــــة !  hebergeur dimageمقدمة لا جدوى منها : الطاعون من الأوبئة الأكثر فتكا والتي عرفها الإنسان في مختلف مراحل تاريخه، وهو مرض معدي لقّب بالموت الأسود وخلّف وراءه ملايين الضحايا .  herbergeur d imageسؤال :- إذن نحن أمام رواية تحكي عن تاريخ
وبدأت الإحصائيات بخصوص الموتى تنتشر .سؤال :- كيف استقبل الناس احصائيات عدد الموتى في البداية ؟جواب :- لم تثر فيهم أي خيال رغم أهمية هذه الإحصائيات، لأنهم كانت تنقصهم المعلومات التي تمكنهم من عقد المقارنات .بعد مرور شهر عن الإعلان :بدأ نوع من التقبل الطفيف يظهر على المواطنين، وأن هذا الحدث غير شيئا داخلهم إلا أنه لم يلمسهم عميقا، ولكن سرعان ما ولد هذا القبول الطفيف شعورا خطيرا جدا وهو أن حياتهم الآن أصبحت في خطر، بل إنهم يعيشون الآن في سجن كبير تحت سماء حارة ينتظرون مصيرهم برتابة و ضيق كبيرين .
Chronicling the development of his community in crisis, as well as actively working to help those stricken with the plague, he slowly but steadily grows as a human being and realises that nothing is actually ever GONE!Even in the end, when people are celebrating their survival of the epidemic, in drunken happiness forgetting all their losses, their suffering, their fears and pain, he stays vigilant.
Knowledge of the different facets of human nature under stress can never be overestimated as a means to choose wisely, should your town be stricken unexpectedly by a plague.
3.5 stars"...that a loveless world is a dead world, and always there comes an hour when one is weary of prisons, of one’s work, and of devotion to duty, and all one craves for is a loved face, the warmth and wonder of a loving heart."Well this book about human resilience in the face of horror/sickness/plague was WORK for me.
What did he mean?" Plus, there is the question about the identity of the narrator...read to find out!The book begins as a plague is sweeping Oran, a coastal town in North Africa.
Many of the characters are cut off from those they love.
But The Plague left me assessing the actual approach which governs human beings when faced with discomforts in life.The first thing that strikes in the work is the avoidance of acceptance of pestilence on the part of people of the town of Oran.
We must try to make ourselves equal to this awful image”In the first address, the Priest is so certain about the ways of God, but the second address clearly depicts the vagueness, as the consequence of severe sufferings due to pestilence.
Más allá de las formalidades de la novela, siempre hay margen para conectar con otros costados de la literatura y esas son cosas que me agrada mucho encontrar en las novelas cuando las leo.La moral se resquebraja, la peste no da tregua y los hombres, simples mortales, luego de la preocupación inicial, pasan del pánico, al paroxismo y la aceptación de sus realidades hasta desembocar en una apatía constante, como entregados a sus destinos.
ألبير كامي__الطـــاعــون__لن يقتنع الآخرون بحججك، بإخلاصك، بحقيقة معاناتك إلا بموتكـــــــــــــــــ
This was as much an existentialist tract as it was a book about the descent of a town into plague, the gradient of the decline increasing exponentially until they reach the pit.
There it is death and smoke and groans and every bit the imagined hell of those with a religious consciousness.But the plague has no relationship to religion.
Shady people are sly by night, criminals escape justice, the great and the good die in their beds, the plague is the great equalizer.
The pacing matches the descent in hell and the recovery into sunlight and a brisk sea air absolutely perfectly.
559. La Peste = The Plague, Albert CamusThe Plague (French: La Peste) is a novel by Albert Camus, published in 1947, that tells the story of a plague sweeping the French Algerian city of Oran. It asks a number of questions relating to the nature of destiny and the human condition. The characters in the book, ranging from doctors to vacationers to fugitives, all help to show the effects the plague has on a populace. The Plague is considered an existentialist classic despite Camus' objection to th
The Plague is considered an existentialist classic despite Camus' objection to the label.
با سستی مسئولین برای واکنش، پس از مدتی با شیوع طاعون شهر قرنطینه اعلام می‌شود.
Our narrator unfolds the events with a voice most detached yet complacent, Dr. Bernard Rieux is the survived witness and victim of what happened in later months, of the transition of people, of the heart crushing groans that became the interminable anthem of the town, I’ve never in my life seen someone fighting the already defeated battle with plague, their groins sagging with buboes, eyes flushed and fever bright, writhing with every breath that escapes from their body, their limped throats causing squeaks like rat, with an endless thirst that quenches never, until bellies are burst when swelled too much with liquid, lungs defy to cooperate and the already defeated battle comes to an end leaving a body cold and open in every pore, this is not the end we want for us, for our loved ones, day after day, after day, until the anger turns into agony and agony weds with despair, giving birth to an endless indifference.
This is an essential book.
This device struck me as an improvement on the Soviet worker novels of the day (1947).
I'll have to search LC.) Neither is there an idealized superman worker, but portraits of individuals with both flaws and great strengths.
One wonders to what extent the novel had didactic intent.
By that observation I don't mean to trivialize the book's elegant high style, its sheer brilliance, its profound insights into life, death and duty.
This is an astonishing book and I highly recommended it.PS A new translation of Exile and the Kingdom appeared in 2007.
Can a new translation of The Plague be far off?
Camus uses the premise of a town infected by the plague and quarantined from the rest of the world to explore some of the great philosophical questions.
I find his exploration of religion very astute--that God is either not able to prevent evil and is thus not omnipotent or that God is all powerful and thus condones evil.
Many people read The Stranger and think Camus is a pessimist, that he has taken the thought experiment that everything is absurd to the extreme and believes in nothing.
The Plague was written after The Stranger and is a shining example of how optimistic Camus really was.
Somehow Camus brings humanism, optimism and the role of love to a depressing story of bubonic plaque in 1940’s Oran, Algeria.
After much bureaucratic bungling and delays, the city is cut off from the outside world by quarantine.
A lot of the focus of the story is on those separated by chance from loved ones for several months.
But mainly a dreary perseverance and indifference takes over many in the city.
The barren, dry, windswept, desolate town is so well portrayed that it is like a character in the story.

کتاب شهادتنامه ای است بر "آنچه می بایست صورت پذیرد و آنچه بی گمان مردمان باید در آینده در مبارزه با وحشت و سلاح کند ناشدنی اش, به رغم جدائی های فردی شان, باز هم به انجام رسانند.کامو فیلسوفی با اندیشه ای برتر برای نجات بشر از زندگی پوچ و یکنواخت انسانی نه تنها من خواننده را به تفکر بازداشته بلکه با تمام زوایای انسانی ام آشنايم کرده و به احترام خود از جای بلندم میکند."من به علم یقین میدانم که هرکسی طاعون را در درون خود دارد زیرا هیچکس در دنیا در برابر آن مصونیت ندارد.
But after a few weeks, in the face of the emergency, the prefect ordered the city gates to be closed.Oran is isolated, separated and cut off from the rest of the world, the inhabitants become "prisoners of The Plague", the city resembles a condemned to death.
It shows, above all, We are all equal before death.A work of high quality, some passages are of a terrifying realism, the progression and the ravages of the plague are described in the smallest details.
The Plague is definitely a depressing book, it couldn't be otherwise with the subject matter discussed.
The story was told by an anonymous narrator, who promised to reveal himself at the end of the book.
I think the fact that he used another plague-witness' diary in this story definitely added richness to the narrative.
One of the most exciting parts in the book for me was when the narrator mentioned the court case from "The Stranger" in passing :DSo, once again, I am very impressed by Camus.
When rats.....large grotesque rats begin dying everywhere across the coastal town of Oran in Northern Africa, an uneasy, but unheeded feeling among the townspeople gradually becomes reality with questions turning to fear and subsequent fever causing widespread panic.As quarantines and sudden isolation from the outside world become a fact of life, our mild-mannered and selfless protagonist, Dr. Bernard Rieux maintains his cool despite exhaustion and the pestilence surrounding his long days.THE PLAGUE is a gripping and horrific tale of confronting death and survival filled with Camus' usual philosophical points of view resulting in an unforgettable read. 4+ Stars.
I was reminded a bit of Saramago's Death at Intervals, except that I preferred the flow of this one.Thus, in a middle course between these heights and depths, they drifted through life rather than lived, the prey of aimless days and sterile memories, like wandering shadows that could have acquired substance only by consenting to root themselves in the solid earth of their distress.One could take the The Plague as literal or figurative, it depends upon the reader.
Mostly, people live for the present, not counting on the future because as in war and suffering, once caught in its grip, the grace of stoicism takes hold:Without memories, without hope, they lived for the moment only.
The Plague is yet another book that I liked, despite the inability to fully understand the underlying themes.
Reading philosophical fiction back to back can have an impression on your thinking!The story is about a plague that wraps the city of Oran, isolating the city completely from the outside world.
Whatever the case may be, to my understanding, the story is an account of human conduct in the face of a calamity.
While Camus’s philosophical thoughts held my interest in the book, reading it was quite a struggle.
أسرى الطاعون في مدينة جزائرية زمن الاحتلال الفرنسيحوار مميز وسرد متقن يظهر فيه براعة البير كامو في تصوير الأحداث والحكي التدريجي عن أحوال الناس ومعالم المدينة المنعزلة الموبوءة بالطاعونالخوف والإنكار يتبعه إدراك الحقيقة وصولا للتأقلم والاستسلام واللامبالاة الطاعون حدث مأساوي بكل تبعاته, تتعامل معه الشخصيات بأساليب مختلفةلا يتسبب في الموت فقط بل يغير أيضا تعاملات الأحياء وأفكارهم ومشاعرهمتدور تساؤلات الرواية عن الإيمان والشك, الحياة والموت, الأخلاق والواجبوفي النهاية زالت المحنة, وكما يُشير كامو يبقى الطاعون بكل صوره جزء من الحياة
We come to care about the individuals in Rieux's world: His mother, Tarrou, Dr. Cattrel, Cottard, Rambert.I was also reminded as I read of Cormac McCarthy’s dystopian novel, The Road where, facing the probable end of civilization, a father remains true to his commitment to his son and to principles of right and goodness.
So I'm glad I read it, reinspired (for the moment; it might fade!) to face the worst, to act in love when I can manage, to resist passivity and bitterness and silence, to be part of the commitment to healing movements, with others, to the very end.
It's funny how the people who got quarantined chose to live their lives the dullest way that they could possibly do.
I know the plague was a devastating and life changing event, but it's how you learn to live with the consequences that counts.
People now know how to stop the sickness from progressing, so what happened in the past shouldn't happen again in the future.
Ignorance is one way to get yourself killed, and only you can fix that problem.I've read numerous reviews tackling on different ideas that this novel tries to portray, and I agree with most of them.
One of the most thought provoking novels I've read.
It was the plague, then.Camus shows people struggling against evil outside but also with themselves, their own frailties and fears, with lack of empathy and simple human decency.
Plague  was hailed the manifesto of a new humanism, showing the new challenges facing people who survived the hell of war.
In this way Camus showed different reactions on the plague, and looking more generally - for every evil that comes to man from the outside.Plague  is a novel - monument, the novel in which all nagging doubts and harassing existentialists questions and problems sound.
The journalist, Rambert, echoes them when he says to Doctor Rieux:”You’re using the language of reason, not of the heart; you live in a world of … of abstractions.”To which he later muses to himself:Yes, an element of abstraction, of a divorce from reality, entered into such calamities.
We follow the responses most closely of a Doctor (Rieux), a journalist (Rambert), a writer (Grand), an intellectual … for want of a better word (Tarrou), a priest (Paneloux) and a criminal (Cottard).
"It comes to this," Tarrou said almost casually; "What interests me is learning how to become a saint." "But you don't believe in God." "Exactly!
Can one be a saint without God?
- that's the problem, in fact the only problem, I'm up against today"The Plague marks a significant change in Camus' view of ethics, and life itself, from The Stranger.
Probably his best novel.In The Thought and Art of Albert Camus, Thomas Hanna writesThe plague is evil and sin is giving in to this evil.
Tarrou, in speaking for Camus, is speaking of sin, but it is sin without God...
دوستانِ گرانقدر، داستانی عالی و خواندنی بود...
داستانی که بازهم از بیخردی موجوداتِ مذهبی سخن میگوید...
و تنها صلیبِ گاز زده اش باقی میماند و موش هایی که در آب مقدسِ کلیسا آب تنی میکردند و خود را به تمسخر غسل تعمید میدادندامیدوارم از خواندنِ این داستانِ زیبا، لذت ببرید<پیروز باشید و ایرانی>
Reread.
It probably helps alleviate any innate tendancies toward navel gazing for a start.By introducing the plague (first bubonic then pneumonia flavoured) into the sleepy colonial town of Oran, people are force to address death head on.
A further group give in to gay abandon and enjoy a work free, potentially consequence free environment by embracing that fact that life is short so it may as well end with a party.
Nope.Bottom line is that whichever philosophical group you fall into (you can choose between realism, rationalism, nihilism, existentialism, pragmatism and idealism to name but a few) you cannot escape the fact that death always has the final word.
