https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6686101-plague
This book pretty much completely overruled everything negative I may have said about Lies. The last book seemed like the series was running out of juice and I found it impossible to believe that Grant could sustain the story throughout the 3 more books he had planned. But alas, all is forgiven and Plague was pretty much awesome, apart from some of the same old annoying factors that got on my nerves before in Gone and Hunger. Books 1 and 2 built up this overall plot about the radiation effects f
But, well, if you've read my other reviews regarding the earlier books in this series, I was majorly pissed because all the strongest characters were male, all the leaders were male, all the girls needed protecting - they were mostly little more than the love interests of the novels.
- I almost choked on nothing when I read it "A girl like her could use a strong male protector".
The book finished where a lot had been successfully wrapped up - good, because I don't want a year of wondering what the hell will happen to the giant bugs - but it also opened up an entirely new mystery.
Checking out a book I am fully aware will terrify me...And it did.
you know, terrifying.
Probably the single scariest character I've ever read about, with the possible exception of Voldemort.
I DO NOT WANT TO READ YOU!!!Book (smiles): Sure.
Everyone knows all this book will do is explain a tiny bit of the situation and continue to drag out the series and give me nightmares.
I am terrified of her)Book (in creepy Voldemort whisper): Yes, yes...
come to me, my preyMe (with equally creepy hypnotized look in eyes, murmurs): Yes, master (pull up library website, place hold request) I will know.Book: I have you now.
OMFG. this was amazing. i loved it. great character development, action-packed plot....just wow.
For the most part, Plague was just as entertaining and action-packed as its predecessors.To be honest, though, I'm starting to have an issue with the determined length of this series.You see, I kind of wish this series would only be 5 books, instead of, like, 6.
Knowing that there are (at least) two more books to go before any kind of resolution hits is rather exhausting.I loved Gone and thought Hunger was very well-done, but starting with Lies, the series started to take on an almost soap-opera element: there were so many characters to keep track of, and they all seemed to develop sudden, inconsequential fights with each other.
My favorite ongoing series of the past couple of years continues with  Plague, and proves that the first three books were no fluke.
He knows, and understands, WAY more than I every thought, and I really hope Grant puts these in the next two books.My only real bash against this series as a whole is the re-caps.
I'm not saying Grant doesn't handle this all well, he does, like a pro; I just feel like maybe this one in particular does definitely jump around perspectives more so than the previous books.There are now only two left in the series.
Eh....I read the first book of the series and loved it.
Third, I started to hate the characters and find some mistakes in the writing.
I mean, it's a good book, it just has a lot of stuff going on.
There's so many that when they reappear in the story line I have to text my friend so she can remind me who they are!2) In this book, Brianna was supposedly using the "E string of a cello" to defend herself with.
I guess not....3) Why in the world did he need to give a second name to the Darkness?
Plague, out of all the four Gone novels, was definitely the most graphic and harsh, but very realistic.
The thing I like about Michael Grant is that he doesn't gloss over stuff, but dives right into it-- the characters, the plot, the drama, was all perfectly detailed and well- written.
I like how the author goes between different kids in all his books, because it lets the readers get a good feel of what everyone is going through.
The kids were all very relateable, to me, with all their strengths and flaws put out there in the wide open.
They made me laugh and cry: they really held the novel up.
3.75/5I'm just glad that I'm getting closer and closer to finishing this series.Overall, it is interesting enough for me to continue, but not so much that I couldn't wait to see the ending due to genuine excitement. I rushed through the last 30 pages because I just wanted to finish this and move on to other books. I guess this series so far is okay.
Het verhaal word echt steeds beter, gekker en bizarder!!!! Tot 1:15 liggen lezen vanacht, boek MOEST uit! Wat gebeurt er met Pete? Drake is terug?! Wtf is er met Hunter aan de hand (echt jeuk gehad tijdens het lezen)? Knapt er nu eindelijk eens iets in Astrid? En nutella!!! Zo genoeg om jullie nieuwsgierig te maken, en nu lezen!!! Hup!
My, how I love the Gone novels. If you haven't given these books a try yet, they come with my highest & most sincere recommendation. They are fast-paced & high-intensity, but at the same time, incredibly thoughtful books. However, out of all the four novels, be warned: Plague wins the gross-out award, for sure. Let's just say that the "plague" is not your average virus (and tbh, it isn't even the least of the kids' worries). The must-look-away-CAN'T-LOOK-AWAY horror of Plague achieves something both terrifying & marvelous.
(run for your lives!)~Sam and Astrid's puzzling realtionship...puzzling as in it's falling apart, which is sad because I was always rooting for them to be together~Dekka almost dying; she's one of my favorite characters~Edilio almost dying~Edilio's note to Quinn: "Get Caine." (I had to rub my eyes and make sure I wasn't seeing things...I had been reading for a long time)~Albert almost dyingThings in "Plague" that made me want to laugh and dance (which is rare because I do NOT dance):~Toto; I mean, come on, he was hilarious~Dekka not dying (yay!)~Edilio not dying (again, yay!)~Albert not dying; as much as I don't like him, he's an asset to the FAYZ~the disappearance of the bugs~the way the Breeze and Caine worked together to beat the bugs~Sanjit and Lana's relationshipDrake's journey to see the gaiaphage was really freaky.
I found it especially hilarious that Sam was having a temper tantrum throughout the entire book because Astrid wouldn't have sex with him.
So, in this installment, you can imagine my despair as the flat emotional dumpage continued to pile up in an even worse way.Speaking of sex, everything in this book seemed to have some tie to it.
The book also presents some interesting themes and philosophical ideas, especially when concerning religion.
No matter what, I will keep on reading till the end, even if the next book is even worse than this one.
Even though I didn't enjoy this book, I want to see this series to completion, and hopefully it pays off.
They were the best part of the first book!The whole reason I fell in love with the story was because of the reluctant hero and leader, Sam, and his discovery of his powers and himself.
The next few books in this series have transformed this character I was so in love with to someone who was a crappy, mean leader and who eventually did not want to relinquish the power he'd been given.
Personally, I like it best when he has the fearless leader persona going because it makes him a real foil for Sam. Astrid.
It's hard for me to think of what to say even when I find a book amazing.The suspense continues to build in this one, and I enjoyed the diversity among the kids.
If you have a phobia like I do about bugs or insects, and you think those 3 inch long roaches are big enough....Read with caution, LOL I loved this in spite of the bugs being pretty prominent in this installment.
My imagination is scary enough, LOL.I have started the next book, Fear, and so far I'm loving it as I thought it would.
I've been reading this for about 2 years, and I enjoyed it, but THANK GOD THAT'S OVER.This was by far the worst of the books in this series so far.
I really do enjoy this series but I just wasn't feeling this book at all and it was not my favourite.I also wasn't in the mood for this book but I really needed to finish this.
I think I'll wait a bit before continuing the series because I'm not in the mood for this.
But I enjoy the series, I'm so curious about the ending, and I recommend it!
AGH!!!!! I NEED THIS BOOK! THE COVER LOOKS AMAZING!
Just when you think there are no more sickening, stomach-twisting, nauseating ways to kill someone/ die, Michael Grant steps up his game #HowToBuildACareer.
4 1/2 stars The general consensus seems to be that Plague is a superior sequel to Lies, which many fans see as the weakest installment in Michael Grant's series thus far. I read both with this in mind, under the assumption that my opinion would end up being similar, if not identical.And, wouldn't you know it? I ended up loving the latter more than the former. Go figure.To be honest, I feel that this series may have peaked with Lies. While Plague is an excellent follow-up, it feels more like a m
The general consensus seems to be that Plague is a superior sequel to Lies, which many fans see as the weakest installment in Michael Grant's series thus far.
Subsequently, I approached Plague expecting an amazing installment that would somehow be an improvement over all past efforts, and so I was left a bit disappointed when it ended up being great, but not better, as many fans claim it to be.
Madness is certainly a factor here (Brittany hasn't exactly had the easiest time in the FAYZ), but it feels so very unnecessary regardless.My other problem in this regard is the fact that nearly every character with some kind of belief in a higher power essentially renounces their respective views by the book's end.
Woah damn that was a bit bloody tense.RTC when I recover from that emotional rollercoaster.
Every time I read a book in this series, I'm still amazed at the things Michael Grant writes.
If you provide me with water and food, I think I can go on for days, just talking about all the things I loved about this book.
When you sit back and think about it, a YA, sci-fi, post-apocalyptic book has enough world, plot and character development as an epic fantasy book, you know that's high quality reading right there.This has been an updated review of this book.
Actually, it's probably I loved both books so much that I needed time to think about each review.
I'd actually like to see if Caine (view spoiler)[ would handle them and their hate antics(view spoiler)[Hunter--- (view spoiler)[ I was so sad that Hunter died in this book :( I almost cried and it is ashame that he barely had much time in Hunger and by lies and plague was a half brain dead boy.Sastrid--- I LOVE the fact that most of the book Sam is so preoccupied that there isn't much screentime with Astrid.
I'll definitely be a happy Gone Fan.Quinn's lack of screentime---It started happening in Hunger, Got worse in Lies and just flatlined in Plague.
And I know that if you've read the book you must be wondering: "How can something be bigger than that?!" But the thing is by the end of the face you'll will resemble this :OYes it will, it ends in a sort of cliffhanger because so much things are left unanswered, so we can assume they will be resolved in the two last books, in which I'm sure many more people will die.And talking about dead, how come there's still people alive in the FAYZ?
Just Sayin....Anyway, Plague won't disappoint, as a matter of fact it will make you thirst for more.
3.5 starsAbout halfway through the book I started to wonder if this was going to end up being the equivalent of that tv show Lost.
Eh. The plot started to drone on and on, nothing made much sense, and it seemed like the producers were just going to milk that cow until it went dry.
I have to hand it to the author, he managed to surprise me with who did and didn't bite it in the end.'Cause I really thought there were a couple of kids who weren't going to be in book 5.
It was still a very good book to read.
I liked that it wasn't predictable.Plot Summary: Plague was a continuation of the last 3 books in the Gone series.
Like the other books, Plague was about the now "normal" life in what the kids call the Fayz.
Astrid ran away with Little Pete and Orc.With everyone running around, Sam was left to find fresh water and defeat a disease he didn't know how to fight.Recommendations:A person reading this seires might also like the Hunger Game seires.
This book is great for any teenager looking for a good book to read.
Just to clarify (because I WISH Michael Grant would!!!)The guy on the back is NOT Zil and is NOT Drake.
Drake is blond with grey eyes as observed by Orsay in HUNGER.
Zil is not INDIAN!SANJIT!!!
is on the back of LIES.
Look to pg 98-99 of LIES.
He was tall, thin, slightly stooped, with black hair down to his shoulders, laughing black eyes, and skin the color of caramel."He is INDIAN but grew up in Bangkok, Thailand.*sigh* Sometimes I feel like you guys didn't actually read the book and just skimmed or got too caught up in the thrill to read for details.
I HOPE SAM AND ASTRID DONT HAVE A KID!!!!
IT WILL TOTALLY RECK THIS BOOK I WILL CRY FOR THE REST OF MY LIFE PLZZZ DONT LET ASTRID AND SAM HAVE SEX PLZZZZZZZ I HATE ASTRID SHE IS USING SAM SO HER AND HER LITTLE BROTHER L.P ARE PROTECTED!!!
IT WOULD BE AWESOME IF LANA AND SAM GOT TOGETHER...
HAHAHA PLZ DO NOT HAVE A KID SAM AND ASTRID IT WILL TOTALLY SUCK I WILL NEVER BE COMPLETE AND MY LIFE WILL BE RUINED PLZ MICHAEL GRANT DO NOT WRITE THAT THANKS FOR ALL THE GREAT BOOKS!!!!!1 :d XOXOXOXO
I quite enjoyed Plague. It had some good battles (as always) and I liked Drake's new army. Maybe they shouldn't have made it that there are two plagues. You really get to see the extent of Little Pete's powers. It has a good climax and I especially like Perdido Beach being split itno Sam's group and Caine's group in the end.
My favorite of the series! Loved it. SO MUCH.
Michael Grand is een meester in het scheppen van sfeer!
*4.5
