https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1135335.The_Hidden_Treasure_of_Glaston
I gave this two stars the other day, and I decided to come back and say why.
Because I read this years ago, and I have no idea if I would actually rate it two stars if I had read it later on.
I read it when I was in middle school, and even though I liked it somewhat, I didn't fully understand it or enjoy it that much.
I have no idea if I might like it better at an older age.
And I'm sure actually has merit, no matter what I thought, so I'm really glad some of my friends enjoy it!
Naturally you flee the country to go protect the Holy Land from the Infidels and abandon your crippled son with a bunch of monks in an Abbey in Wales.Anyway, this story is about that son and his life for a couple years in the Abbey.
Just a life around a bunch of good people, most of whom are monks.There is also a mystery going on.
Vague stories about King Arthur and the Holy Grail.
It is interesting and exciting but not that interesting or exciting.Also let me note that the whole idea of this Holy Grail is nothing more than Christianity absorbs Germanic Paganism.
DNF. Just couldn't get into this re-read.
This Newbery winner from 1947 is a hidden gem that the kids and I listened to while driving to/from CA (we finished it at home). It was an exciting tale and grew more interesting as it went along; the kids really enjoyed it and then we were able to look online at the ruins of the real Glastonbury Abby. So cool!
This is one of many books we have read that were surprisingly good reads. There is definitely a fair amount of sadness and many trials to endure... but unlike many other books, it has a decent mix of adventure/excitement, triumphs and sorrow.
3.5
Pretty good for a school book. I found it a bit hard to picture some parts though. Over all decent
I loved this book! Very interesting and well written.
I read this book to my children as part of our history lessons. We all really enjoyed the story.
Entertaining, historically faithful in its context, and excellent themes. I enjoyed it far more than I expected.
So much to love. Growth, friendship, self-sacrifice.
I bought this to read with the kids, because we were looking for an appropriate knight adventure.
When I got the book, I saw it wasn't directly knights, and saw that a lot of the speech in the book was in Old English.
And got promptly caught up in the adventure of young Hugh and his time with the monks in Glaston, and his own personal quest for the Holy Grail.
I am definitely going to go ahead and read this to my kids, because there is plenty of adventure within to keep both my kids on their toes.
I've kept this book for well over 40 years having purchased it in one of those school book clubs and recall it fondly but have not re-read it in recent memory.
I do know that it had a lot of adventure & that it piqued my life-long interest in the King Arthur legends and in the "discovery" of his grave at Glastonbury in the 12thc.
Was prompted to dig the book out after reading Grave Goods by Ariana Franklin which features a mystery surrounding this same discovery.
Will have to re-read to see if my rating stands from an adult perspective.
Read the full review here: http://newberyandbeyond.com/mini-newb...I found this book interesting once I got into it, but it was pretty slow paced at the beginning. In the year 1171, Hugh is left at a monastery when his father has to flee England. Hugh and his new friend Dickon discover some forgotten treasures and think they might be on the path to one of the greatest treasures of all time–the Holy Grail.Good story, but only for those kids who have the patience to work through the slower-paced writing of many years ago.
A wonderful little book. While it is most definitely a YA book, I still thumb through it now and then to remember some of the details of the story. When I first read it I loved the imagery and the excitement of the tale. Now, when I look back on it, I appreciate it for being a well-written and engaging book for young kids, especially those interested in history. (Uncommon these days, but I do happen to know quite a few.)
I had to read this book for school but I still enjoyed it. It was a mysterious and religious book. It was so good because of the mystery! It was one of those books that something huge happens at the end of the chapter and it makes up want to read more! You should read this book. I read this book when I was in 8th grade but my younger sis is reading it for-oh wait-shes in 8th grade too, never mind! But this book is good for, I woud say, 8th grade and up.
Young Hugh de Morville was left in a monastery by his father when the death of Thomas Moore disgraces the family. Hugh, being lame, cannot leave England with his father, but the kindly monks try to make him feel welcomed. Unable to be very active, Hugh tries to make himself useful in the aumbry. As he helps recycle parchment, he starts to find clues to the burial place of Arthur and Guenivere in the ancient pages. But the hunt for Arthur's grave might lead to an even greater treasure.
The writing style is dated (1946). The dialog is stilted and the plot sometimes contrived, but hidden passages and treasure alway appeal. The historical facts of Glastonbury have been rearranged to make the the story more compact. (The tomb of Arthur is found before the fire and he is reinterred by Henry II.) It probably would not have held my attention if I were not committed to Glastonbury as a setting.
Set in Glastonbury, England in 1171. A story of life in a monastery complex in the middle ages--we follow Hugh, the book-loving boy left at the monastery by his father, and Dickon, an oblate, as they sort out mysteries in the natural and spiritual worlds. I'm guessing it's fully period, but there's a lot of Catholic superstition--visions, miracles and such are very important to the people, and do seem to happen. Interesting picture of an interesting time period.
The Hidden Treasure of Glaston was a superb book with equal parts Arthurian and holy grail legend. Disgraced by the murder of Thomas á Becket, Hugh’s father sets off for the holy land leaving him in the care of the monks. Hugh and his newfound friend Dickon decide to search for the Holy Grail. I enjoyed this book although it was not one I would normally choose myself.
My daughter and I enjoyed reading this semi-historical Arthurian Grail Legend together. THToG involved several different elements together into a satisfying tale: coming of age, redemption, forgiveness, adventure, Arthurian myth, Catholic and English History. On the balance we found this story of "finding" the Holy Grail to be charming, Faith promoting and suitable for the whole family
Proof that truly good books stand the test of time. This was a discard from my library and the copyright on this edition is 1943. Still, it is a Newbery Honor and its story is as good today as it was in 1943. King Arthur and British history are two of my great loves, and this book with its mystery and awe was a perfect Christmas break read.
We are studying the middle ages this year and this is one of the books of required reading in the program.Never boring and intensely exciting, the book itself is a treasure!Full of adventure and mystery this book will keep you hooked. It's an easy read because you don't want to put it down.Wonderful!
A most excellent book. Geared for kids, probably young readers up to young adults, but thoroughly engrossing and enjoyable for adults as well. A fictional story that interweaves the various legends of Glastonbury Abbey, located in southwest England.
Captivating, fun Medieval mystery concerning two boys and a hermit searching for the Holy Grail from the tales of King Arthur based on actual legends and events. The murder of Archibishop, Saint Thomas Becket sets the stage.
This adventurous book set in 1184 is filled with good characters, great imagery and mysterious plot development. Some of the medieval church vocabulary had me reaching for my dictionary. Would make a nice read aloud for older boys.
A lot of great things came together for me in this story.
I thought it was fantastic!
Somewhat slow in pace when compared to novels of today but a fun adventure nonetheless due to the context of abbey life, historical fact, and Arthurian legends about the quest for the holy grail.
c3ea0f3b-65ec-4a96-81aa-31f71aca4a2d
