https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/62659.Profit_Over_People
Chomsky shows, and quite convincingly, I feel, that whether or not the neoliberal assumptions are right or wrong, the one thing that can be said with certainty is that no one, particularly no one with any power, is seeking to introduce anything like free markets in anything other than words.
The increasing poverty of the vast majority of citizens in countries such as Haiti and Colombia make fascinating case studies.However, the discussion on the victory of people over the attempted secret implementation of the Multilateral Agreement on Investment (MAI) saves this book from being a chronicle of despair and offers hope where you might think none was likely.
Globalization was seen as open and free trade with each nation producing what it did best.
In 1971, 90% of international financial transactions were in the real economy -- trade or long term investment.
Chomsky quite frequently crushes the belief that America spreads democracy and freedom to nations of the world.
United States offered to help governments open themselves to foreign investment and ownership.
In Latin America, the United States offered governments protection of their borders.
Increased Internal security allowed governments to hold power and keep the population under control.
How can countries not allow foreign ownership of their property?
Classical liberalism focuses on protecting the rights of the individual from government interference, whereas neoliberalism focuses on promoting economic prosperity by giving businesses freedom from regulation in the ultimate hope (in theory, at least) of the trickle down.
Noam Chomsky does little to attack neoliberalism as an economic theory in this book; I suppose that is not his area of expertise any way, but he sure does succeed in bringing to the reader's attention the hypocrisy of those (read government and big business) who hark on "free market" principles while actually insulating big business from the costs and risks of doing business.

And yet despite the insights, the analysis, the disturbing revelations that are really a matter of public record and knowledge, what comes through is his optimism and belief in the power of collective groups to work to the benefit of all.
The truly disturbing aspect of the book is the collusion between the two groups to effectively rule out the opinion of the masses, whose lives are affected by the deals brokered in glass towers.
Chomsky warns we must be wary of those in the business who claim to act in our best interest without wanting to inform us of how are lives are to be affected by the deals brokered there.
Description: In "Profit Over People," Noam Chomsky takes on neoliberalism: the pro-corporate system of economic and political policies presently waging a form of class war worldwide.
By examining the contradictions between the democratic and market principles proclaimed by those in power and those actually practiced, Chomsky critiques the tyranny of the few that restricts the public arena and enacts policies that vastly increase private wealth, often with complete disregard for social and ecological consequences.
Combining detailed historical examples and uncompromising criticism, Chomsky offers a profound sense of hope that social activism can reclaim people's rights as citizens rather than as consumers, redefining democracy as a global movement, not a global market.
Instead of citizens, consumers are produced.Fascism and Corporate Capitalism |Noam Chomsky
If you are looking for a comprehensive theoretical analysis of neoliberalism, check out David Harvey's super-readable, A Brief History of Neoliberalism. If you just want some of that pure, uncut, 1999 Seattle WTO protest-era Chomsky, this is your jam.
I have personally heard Limbaugh shill for the mega corporations on his show, and this constitutes a misunderstanding of the free market and how huge corporations are formed.
Huge corporations are formed by the government not enforcing its anti-trust laws and protecting the corporations from meaningful competition.
The bigger a corporation gets, the more it wants to be shielded from real competition, and the government readily complies.
But it isn't the free market and its really more like "crapitalism."Anyway, Chomsky points out a lot of the evil that these huge corporations have done overseas and around the world, and all that I can readily grant.
يعرض نعوم تشومسكي في هذا "المرجع الهام" تصوره عن النيوليبرالية و دورها الحاسم في تشكيل هوية النظام ا
I'll give it two stars because maybe the second half is really great, and I do think there is value in keeping us aware of bad policy and hypocrisy in our history/present.Chomsky seems to follow a format in each piece (it's not really a book, but a collection of shorter essays and pieces): (1) make a caricature of a certain view/claim/opinion, throwing in lots of hyperbole(2) pick a bunch of one line quotes from policymakers (often from 100 years ago) or other "authoritative" figures (an unnamed "leading business figure") without much context(3) "translate" for us what there people are REALLY saying, (4) and then jump around through a bunch of sometimes related examples to show that there has been inconsistency, contradiction, or hypocrisy in U.S. policy (shocking)(5) repeatI was actually pretty disappointed, and expected more penetrating/original analysis.
Chomsky has a gift for picking apart convincingly the arguments that others use to support the Global status quo. In this book he discusses how "free trade" really isn't free and how US and Western European policies have helped keep the undeveloped world poor. Not for the faint of heart or anyone who voted for Bush.
I was looking for deeper explorations into the theory of neoliberalism, however the title could be "A History of Neoliberalism".
Chomsky gives a detailed history of the global trade bodies like the WTO, IMF/WB, the MAI, the Trilateral Commission, and trade agreements like NAFTA.
In his classic way, Chomsky critiques these institutions and points out the extremely harmful effects for humans and the earth as well as pointing out the hypocrisy they call democracy.
Chomsky always ends with a bit of hope in the common sense of the people organized to take back what the tyrants of the modern day have claimed as their own.
I gave it three stars simply because I've read about this through Chomsky before, so it wasn't very fresh.
A nice companion piece with Naomi Klein's Shock Doctrine... this one helps fill in some of the deep history of the early Neoliberal shift in the global economy. I must say this book didn't grab me quite as much as some of the other Chomsky I've read, but the broader message about power's attempts to keep the "ultimate weapon" (i.e. the public)from knowing what's behind the "thin veil of secrecy" is still a very important one to keep in mind.
Collection of essays and speeches on the topic of neoliberalism. Difficult to get through the book quickly because a some things are so outrageous and leave you filled with rage at the injustice. Would recommend reading if you want to really see how 'democracy' works in the current neoliberal system, however it will not give you and introduction to what neoliberalism is or any solutions on how to have a popular involvement in democracy.
ده تلخيص لكتاب الربح مقدماً على الشعب: النيوليبرالية والنظام العالمي http://ar.scribd.com/doc/118563165/تلخيص-كتاب-الربح-مقدم-علي-الشعب-النيوليبرالية-والنظام-العالمي-لناعوم-تشومسكي
Таким чином, якщо дивитись, як "реформи" справді працюють, а не як їх постулюють, то ідея "вільного ринку" перетворюється на зручний інструмент відкриття нових ресурсів інших країн і їхнє визискування.
Наднаціональні структури, як-от Всесвітня Організація Торгівлі, переосмислюються тут з міжнародного регулятора на ще один важіль впливу (економічної природи), використовуючи який, можна схилити уряди інших країн до "прогресу ідей демократії і вільного ринку" — коли ж насправді ці країни конче потребують перерозподілу економічних благ, регуляції і контролю над бізнесом, а також протекціонізму.У "вільний ринок" можуть без шкоди для себе (але з багатьма примітками і відступами) гратися тільки найсильніші: високорозвинена індустріальна Англія з її імперською історією, капіталістичні Штати, етс.
Confronted with these facts, defenders of the neoliberal order claim that the spoils of the good life will invariably spread to the broad mass of the population—as long as the neoliberal policies that exacerbated these problems are not interfered with!”“A group of prominent Japanese economists recently published a multivolume review of Japan’s programs of economic development since World War II.
They point out that Japan rejected the neoliberal doctrines of their US advisers, choosing instead a form of industrial policy that assigned a predominant role to the state.
Market mechanisms were gradually introduced by the state bureaucracy and industrial-financial conglomerates as prospects for commercial success increased.
Great book with some key points about both the proletariat and the power of the junta, though could be far more informative with regards to specifics in the advertisement center and a more critical analysis of those who are specifically running these organizations, board of directors etc. --but really, an awesome addition to Chomsky's work and particularly informative on the history of worker movements and the wrangling of profit from a practical and philosophical perspective.
[My two stars refer to the way the book is written, not the opinions.]I picked up the book to learn what is neoliberalism, and understand it in the current context.
It worked to a limited extent.
I missed a lot of required background for the book.
The book didn't explain what NAFTA was, or other discussed trade agreements.
The book looks suitable for someone who keeps up with the current affairs (or did so in the '90s), knows the jargon, and is interested in Noam Chomsky's take on them.
It won't do a good job of introducing you to the subject.
Küba'ya ambargo getirilmeden önce 3.Dünya ülkelerine en fazla yardım eden (özellikle Doktor gönderirmiş) ülke olduğunu ve bunu karşılıksız yaptığını ve her gittiği ülkeler de alkışlarla karşılanırlarmış.Kitapta ayrıca İngilizlerin Türkiye'deki silah ihalesini almak için öncesinden nasıl Ankara'da Metro yapılması için 22 milyon dolarlık yardımı da anlatılıyor.Kitabın özeti diyebileceğim cümle:"İktidar karanlıktaysa güçlü kalır; güneş ışığına maruz kaldığında buharlaşmaya başlar.""ABD Kendi Serbest Pazar Değerlerini Küresel Anlaşmaları Aracılığıyla İhraç Ediyor.""piyasa ekonomisi uğruna her şeyin kurban edilmesi, eşitsizliğin şiddetlenmesi ve nüfusun büyük kısmının marjinalize edilmesi.""...yasalar yoksulları öğütür, zenginler de yasaları."( Oliver Goldsmith"NAFTA'nın kongrede onaylanmasından sonra, Ford Motor ve GE sendikaya bağlı tüm işçileri bir günde kovdu ve daha düşük maaşlarla yeni işçiler aldı.
It was slightly distracting and I got over it but reading typos just makes me feel like I overpaid.
He defines developed countries as ones who are free from American experiments in democracy.
Countries seen as under developed or "third world" are ones that have proven systems of government that strongly coincide with American principals.
It's nice to hear a counter argument of free market economy, but it's also nice to hear an alternative, something that many writers on this subject miss while they're bemoaning the Friedmanesque chaos created around the world by high inflation, privatization and slaughtered social programs.
This book is worth your time if you haven't read anything else about free market economy or anything else by Chomsky.
For example, in the chapter “Neoliberalism and the Global Order” he writes:“The "principal architects" of the neoliberal "Washington consensus" are the masters of the private economy, mainly huge corporations that control much of the international economy and have the means to dominate policy formation as well as the structuring of thought and opinion.
Chomsky traces the history of neoliberalism through a detailed analysis of free trade agreements of the 1990s, the World Trade Organization, and the International Monetary Fund.
“Profit over people” is a thought-provoking masterpiece full of eye-opening facts.
Honestly torn between 2 and 3 stars, but I'll give Chomsky the benefit of the doubt.
Like many of Chomsky's other books, this is more a loose compilation than anything.
Certain sections flow very well, while others feel disjointed and lack any significant meaning.
In such sections, Chomsky only glosses over issues and important events, assuming that the reader already knows of those events - but if such an understanding is assumed, what is the purpose of the book?
In other sections, however, Chomsky does manage to do a good job in detailing the importance and implications of certain treaties.Also, Chomsky, if you're listening...
Giving a rating on a book that discusses political and economic systems is tough.
Reading this book, as I expected, I generally agreed with the points made by Chomsky.
As I have aged, I have become more and more opposed to these neoliberal trade policies that prioritize corporate management and shareholders over citizens and workers.
Having said that, as a book, I do not think it is terribly well formed.
If I'm reading and find phrases in quotes, I would really like to know the origins of it all.
Chomsky the thinker and speaker is far more engaging than Chomsky the writer.This was a selection for my friends' book club.
Neoliberalism, with its claim that complete freedom of the market guarantees personal freedom, has become globally pervasive and the guiding principle in politics, economics and culture, encouraging individualism, private property rights and a strong sense of personal responsibility.
It is principles such as these, though, which creates multi-national corporations ("too big to fail"), the worship of Wall Street and opportunities for the top three billionaires of the world to accumulate assets equal to the combined GNP of all the least developed countries (and their 600 million people).
Such a situation is unsustainable.
I was disappointed by this book by Chomsky.
The introduction written by McChesney is not consistent with the entire rest of the book.
McChesney goes off on classical liberal doctrine.
Then Chomsky goes off on business-government collusion, but he can't seem to decide what he is against, and he ends up pointing fingers at everyone.
I also don't like paying money for a book only to find out it is simply a collection of articles that the author decided to compile and then use his name to make extry money by calling it a new book.
I guess I should've done my homework.
This is a pretty good read from Chomsky on globalization. He makes a distinction between free market ideology (which is what we push on developing countries) and what he calls really existing free market doctrine, which is free markets for you and subsidies and protectionism for me. It fits in with his entire approach of exposing the US contempt for the policies that it pushes on the rest of the world. It's a collection of previous magazine articles, but he did expand them a little, so it's worth it if you haven't read them all.
Reading because it seems to be an academic outlook of the philosophy behind our current form of government and how capitalism and democracy are two different animals that cannot exist in the same space. Enlightening given our current goings-on with the election campaigns.
Chomsky is my hero!!!
