https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1295935.The_Conjure_Man_Dies
THE CONJURE-MAN DIES. (1932). Rudolph Fisher. ****. This was one of the novels collected in The Library of America’s two-volume set titled, “Harlem Renaissance,” and was easily the most readable and enjoyable of the lot. The author (b. 1897; d.1934) was born in Washington, D.C. and died in Harlem. He received a medical degree in 1924 from Howard University and was a friend of Paul Robeson. In addition to his medical practice, he also wrote articles published in several magazines and one other no
In addition to his medical practice, he also wrote articles published in several magazines and one other novel.
This novel is said to be the first detective story ever written by an African-American.
Written in the style of a locked-room mystery in the form of a British manor mystery, it is about the murder of a man in Harlem known as a conjure-man, i.e., a seer, or psychist.
There are a lively number of suspects of the murder – all of them customers waiting in the waiting room for their turn with the guru.
Pretty good book! I saw the ending coming but I blame that on my acquired detective skills from watching too many episodes of Law and Order. :P
Despite there being a police detective investigating the case, I felt that the real protagonist of this novel was Dr. John Archer before I knew that author Rudolph Fisher was a physician.
I thought that Dr. Archer was the best developed and most sympathetic character.
Rudolph Fisher's background also explains why the medical details seemed so authentic.The Conjure Man, Frimbo, was a highly ambivalent character.
The most surprising development had me exclaiming, "What just happened here?" It caused me to entertain the notion that Frimbo could have been a genuine practitioner.
It made most of the characters seem like caricatures.
The first known mystery novel written by an African-American, this was a decent crime novel published in 1932. Other than the time period and technology, it has pretty much every element of a good CSI-type crime show - interesting (and some crazy) characters, great humor, a prevalent setting (Harlem), and a nice twist at the end.
A lost gem. It's commonplace to say "There is no Chester Himes or Walter Mosley without Fisher's novel," but I'd also suggest that there might not be Ralph Ellison's Invisible Man. That is, within the conventions of a detective novel, Fisher offers a delightfully ironic, complicated, and ambiguous Harlem, populated by surreal figures and ripe with several different languages competing against each other. I can't praise this novel enough. Should be on the reading list of every reader interested in investigating the Harlem Renaissance.
3.5 from me. I liked it but didn’t love it. Is it just me, or can I see some Rudolph Fisher in Ralph Ellison’s “Invisible Man”?
Probably closer to a 4.5⭐, but I thoroughly enjoyed this book! Loved the twist and turns it took. I also really enjoyed the philosophy involved in this.
Probably closer to a 4.5⭐️, but I thoroughly enjoyed this book! Loved the twist and turns it took. I also really enjoyed the philosophy involved in this.
We eventually gave in, and she emailed an online copy for us to use.After finishing this novel, I'm all too aware of how tragic this experiment was.
It was an interesting mystery that had a lot of great twists, but a perfectly logical conclusion.
It dealt with a lot of important topics ranging from foreignness to colorism to science vs.
Maybe it was because it perfectly aligned with my own cross-sections of interests, or that I'm also writing a mystic/ritual-based murder mystery, but I couldn't get enough of this book.Read this book.
But then in the second half, it really takes off-- we get into the case of somewhat bumbling detective Bubber, we get some really odd diversions into contemporary (for the novel) science of blood typing, etc, and then there's a couple odd tangents on Africa and African heritage.
And then it all comes together in a pretty surprising way.So, a kind of hard to get into mystery that really picks up in the second half.
The range of black characters here is cheering, and on paper I really like the team-up here of the doctor and the detective to solve the case, even if I don't think it always works here.
Considering that this was Fisher's first (and, thanks to his unfortunate early death, only) mystery novel, this is an excellent example of its genre (although perhaps a trifle too indebted to Conan Doyle and Agatha Christie, as the sometimes too formal language Fisher used indicates).
Fisher's eye for the social details of Harlem life during the 1920s and 1930s also sets this work apart from his contemporaries.
This is a fine example of the gradual evolution of the Harlem Renaissance from its early youthful exuberance into a wider exploration of fictional genres (much like Schuyler's science fiction satire _Black No More_ and Arna Bontemps's historical novel _Black Thunder_).
Written with a rhythm and tone that's become long lost over the decades, this novel is full of the music of Harlem. I love the diversity of the characters, even if most of them are injected with some heavy-handed social commentary on race. Fisher nods to the prejudices and stereotypes facing African-Americans, but manages to keep his characters from becoming one-dimensional tropes. The mystery is genuinely puzzling, and the resolution is satisfying. Overall I loved this book, but a lot of that enjoyment was rooted in the beauty and efficiency of diction and phrasing. It's a great story, told beautifully.
The Conjure Man Dies is said to be the first murder mystery with all African American characters.
There is some debate about this, but the general consensus is that it isn't the first, but one of the first.
Either way, it was a step in the right direction.
I enjoyed the characters.
All of them had very interesting personalities and possible motives for murder.I have to admit, the end threw me for a loop.
After the thought, I see all the evidence was right there.
It's sort of embarrassing that I allowed so many questionable things to happen without getting suspicious.I had a lot of fun reading this.
A fun, yet somewhat slow read. The first half of the book requires a great deal of learning characters, which is normal in a crime/mystery novel, but Fisher's content sometimes requires you to trudge through some lines. That being said, it is still a fun read, and if you enjoy mystery/crime/detective novels this would be a good recommendation--as it was the first African-American story of its kind. That being said, you may see the ending coming if this is your genre of choice or you watch a lot of detective-style television series. But, you'll have a good time.
What a great read! This book was written in the 1930's, provides a glimpse into the life of Harlem in that time, and the characters all are from that time and place. The story, the dialogue, and the end make for great reading. Check this book out! It also happens to be the first novel ever written by a Black American (Dr. Rudolph Fisher) and wrote with all Black American characters. It won't disappoint. Good mystery.
Really insightful book - the flavor of 1932 Harlem comes through on every page. As the first African American-written mystery novel, Fisher does an excellent job of exploring the genre. Frimbo is a character I'll keep with me for life.Also really liked the peek into the new crime-fighting technologies of the day.
Excellent mystery in the vein of Conan Doyle. Quick-witted humor throughout. It's a shame that Fisher is not more widely known. He apparently was a brilliant man who had the misfortune of dying young. He was a polymath and that is probably why he is not more widely known; he was great at many things but he did not leave us with that one masterwork that would have made him famous.
One of the better murder mysteries I've read in a while. I highly recommend it
science and crime come together in 1930's Harlem. Interesting, just interesting. Would reccomend to anyone who enjoys crime novels.
I thought I knew who the killer was, but the ending still surprised me! Very fun and interesting book.
I did not see that ending coming whatsoever... I'm seriously confused.
A window into early twentieth century Harlem as well as an interesting (if far fetched) mystery, the Conjure Man Dies is well worth reading.
Glad I read it. Did know this aspect of the Harlem Renaissance. It's more Sherlock Holmes and Agatha Christie rather than Raymond Chandler and Dashiell Hammett. I was expecting something moodier. It starts off well, but I lost interest about halfway through. I felt like the characters were confusing. Lots of plot twists, though.
Had to read this for class and I actually liked it for a change it was a very interesting story that I have not experienced before.
The author has ties to my home state and this is considered the first mystery novel by an African American so I just had to check it out. It was a well- written story, and I very much enjoyed it!
This was great.Also: Called it.
An interesting murder mystery - would make a great play.
