https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/46323.Mary
Ganin is now living in a boarding house in Berlin, along with a young German girl, Klara, an old Russian poet, Podtyagin, his landlady, Lydia Nikolaevna Dorn and his neighbour, Aleksey Ivanovich Alfyorov, whom he meets in a dark, broken-down elevator at the onset of the novel.
The infatuated Ganin instead sets the clock for eleven and plans to meet Mary at the train station himself.
However, as Ganin arrives at the train station, he realizes that "the world of memories in which Ganin had dwelt became what it was in reality the distant past...
While Nabokov's first novel purports to be about Mary, it is really about memory, nostalgia, that yearning for the past.
Mary centers on émigré Lev Glebovich Ganin.
Yes, Mary is much anticipated.
This tangle of relationships all takes place in a small setting -- a Berlin pension filled with Russian expats.
The setting (almost a closed circle mystery sans mystery) reminded me a bit of Eric Ambler's Epitaph for a Spy in that it all takes place largely among a hotel/pension with various characters interacting.
Vladimir Nabokov's debut novel, Mary, is a well written story about a youthful love.
In many respects, this short novel feels like a Dostoevsky novel exploring different and not quite so existential themes.
Unfortunately, Mary doesn't live up to either Dostoevsky's or Nabokov's later works.
Moreover, the protagonist's reflection on his memory of love doesn't really become poignant until the book's end.
Mary has a nice ending and it is interesting to see the roots of other works here, including his autobiography, Speak Memory.
This is really a very solid work, but I'm afraid I can't help judging Nabokov against his later novels.
Especially, the first love!This is such a story of a loving image which lives forever in the shadow of an ill-fated lover.
Ganin, now, in a foreign city, recollects everything about Mary, and grows drunk with her memories.
Here, he awaits the arrival of Mary with the memory of her image, sitting on a cold, park bench.(view spoiler)[The questions of reality pass his mind.
The world of memories grows darker while the image of Mary flickers.
Now, not letting the arriving reality hinder with her memory seems to be the only viable step to preserve the loving image of Mary.
این کتاب رو بخاطر مترجمش عباس پژمان از کتابخونه برداشتم ولی کاش از این غلطا نمی کردم:)کتاب ناباکوف،اولاش قرار بود 4 ستاره بگیره و از اواسط کتاب سهامش شروع به سقوط کردتا همین ریویو که میخاستم بنویسم دو ستاره داشتولی همین که در نوشتن ریویو تعلل به سراغم اومد و نمیدانستم چی بنویسمحرصم در اومد و یه ستاره دیگه ازش گرفتممثه این تیمسارها و نظامی ها، منم به ناباکوف میگم زود از جلو چشم گم شو تا همون یه ستاره رو هم ازت نگرفتمتو این هاگیر و واگیر داره برام خاطره تعریف میکنه؛)
Aw, even Nabokov had to write a first novel. A first novel about first love and the passing of time and the power of memory. Nabokov writes about the languors and lashings of lost love and listless life at 27. A lesser, sometimes lyrical work. How adorable.Here's a second (and German Dutch) opinion of the work: http://joostpollmann.nl/boeken/a-cold...Take that, my fellow Goodreaders!
I read this in 1999 and then again a few years ago. THIS is what first novels should aspire towards. Instead every MFA wants to Pynchon-it over the fence and we have reams of bad puns and pop culture references all alluding to some Grand Joke. Well, that wasn't funny, was it? This is a tome about estrangement, when the ideas and habits of home are exiled, what's left?
Mary is coming.Nabokov's first novel has cemented his place on my list of favorite writers.
His writing is consistently and incredibly beautiful.
Hungry for more of Nabokov's incredible prose."Mary" is a dream.
Even when we're presented the present reality instead of Ganin's reconstruction of his past love life with the ethereal beauty of Mary, it is as though we're in a surreal dream state.
Maybe I'll find myself waiting on the platform of a train station.
If you're new to Nabokov, know that his writing, as far as I've experienced, only becomes more beautiful with his age.I'm off to daydream of Mary.
"Машенка" - Владимир НабоковЕх, тази "Машенка" ми разтопи сърцето...
Машенка (какво мило обръщение) е името на първата любима на Лев, който заедно с няколко колоритни руснаци, избягали от родината, живее в пансион в Берлин през 20-год.
на ХХ век.В рамките на няколко дни Лев си припомня невинните години на първата любов, срещите в изоставена къща под дъжда с любимото момиче и разменените по-късно писма без укори и обвинения.
За няколко блажени дни Лев започва да живее отново.
Дали обаче можем да върнем миналото и трябва ли?Много красота има в тази книга, много поезия и меланхолия.
Машенка е облечена в синьо, носи сини метличини.
Nabokov's first novel is a thinly fictionalized account of his first serious love affair.
He then presented it as straight autobiography in one of the chapters of Speak, Memory, and finally did another, heavily stylized, fictional version in Ada. I wonder if he would have returned to this theme again if he had lived another few years?
Also, if the woman in question read any of them?
I'm trying to imagine how I'd have experienced it.
taken great pains to make sure my husband didn't read the books?
left them lying around so that he was sure to notice them?
Bu müthiş kitabın Türkçesini (Esra Birkan çevirisini) yıllar yıllar önce Telos basmıştı, o haliyle Maşenka tam bir küçücük fıçıcık içi dolu turşucuktu.
Nabokov ülkemizde çok bilinmesine rağmen Maşenka az bilinir.
Maşenka, Nabokov'un takıntılı olduğu "hatırlayarak tekrar yaşama", "yaşanmışı hafızada saklı tutarak istenen zaman yaşamış kadar olma" halinin ilk ve çok değerli örneğidir.
Bu ilk romanında da tıpkı diğerlerinde olduğu gibi anlatıcıyla bir olur, onun hesaplarını yapar, onun yapacaklarını bilir, onunla kıs kıs gülersiniz.
Nabokov'un çok zeki bir yazar olduğunu düşünüyorum ve okurunun zekasını asla küçümsemediğini.
Gerçekten de daha sonraki romanlarında el atıp abartacağı ve sayısız detaya boğacağı bu ilk aşk konusu bu kitapta tam tadındadır bence.
بعد از فراز خنده در تاریکی و بعد از اوج لولیتا با سومین کتابی که از نابوکوف خوندم سقوط کردم... چقدر کتاب ضعیفی بود... همونطور که ذکر شده تجربه ی سالهای خام دستیش هست...به هیچ کس توصیه اش نمیکنم
Vladimir’s debut, pictured here in resplendent pink, is the slight tale of arch git Ganin remembering his first love—the obeisant Mary with the Tartar nose.
This problem dogs some of his earlier work, among them Invitation to a Beheading and The Luzhin Defense in its snoozier moments.This general qualm aside (well, it’s quite a large qualm, but fans, keep reading) the characters are rendered with good humour—several of them caricatures from older Russian novels (the sick poet, the bored daughter, the tedious man)—and the nostalgic throb of lost love is palpable: many fans of this book empathise with the summertime setting and the ebbing away of affection.
За повечето други малко нарочно (признавам, провокативно) обявявам Набоков (и) за американски писател, но сега този пансион в Берлин през 20-те си беше толкова руски, че няма накъде повече… Самата Машенка си е просто една Русия, минала млада Русия.
Толкова ранни, че чак забравят обичайното:„Защо така никой не яде, нито пие...“ Сигурно заради мъката по „…топлата грамада на родината…“Все пак Набоков елегантно поднася отношението си към положението в Русия, а не с грубо политиканстване или съвсем открита мъка.Мисля, че в тази малка книга образите на Ганин и Машенка не са развити много добре, по-скоро всички останали герои ми се виждаха достатъчно ясни, като във филм (и всички звучат като по-възрастни).
It's not like the Nabokov I know to write a Russian book, but despite its Berlin setting, this is a very Russian book.
It's a positive sin not to be unfaithful to a man like him."The cleverness:Back in his room he tried to read, but he found the contents of the book so alien and inappropriate that he abandoned it in the middle of a subordinate clause.
Mary is—or rather was (time has marched on)—a fifteen-year-old girl the novel’s protagonist fell in love with when they both lived in Russia.
For starters Lev Glebovich Ganin (the name on our hero’s fake Polish passport) has relocated to Berlin and it’s been a long time since he’s had even a letter from Mary.
It takes time to refine a writer and so I was only expecting traces of the Nabokov I’ve got to know of the years but I was a little surprised to see how much was familiar; juvenilia this is not.
[ contented sigh ]Just to be clear, a few days ago when I said "99% of human civilization is bullshit," it should be understood that the whole of Nabokov's work falls into that rare 1% which makes life worth living.
Sure, there are some beautiful descriptions and a handful of enjoyable characters, but the whole time I wondered, what's the point?.
Because essentially, this is a story about lost love and moving on; which it's possible that at the time this was written, it was not as much of an over-used cliché as it is now.
Reading first books have always been fun for me because you get to see where the author began and how his style evolved.
And maybe because I am an aspiring writer myself, I think that reading first book will unlock the secret to writing the "big one".
In this case, though, I wouldn't recommend this much beyond the die-hard Nobokov fans.
تحكي قصة المهاجرين الروس ،، المقيمين بألمانيا ..
و ماشينكا هي فتاة أحبها غانين " ليف غليبوفتش" منذ أمد بعيد قبل هربه إلى برلين بسبب الحرب ..و تزوجها أليروف محققا حلم الأول ...
المهم هم مجموعة من المهاجرين الروس يسكنون في نزل واحد ...و الغرف مرقمة بالأرقام الستة الأولى من شهر نيسان ..!!!
بالنسبة لليف غليبوفتش كانت روسيا متجسدة في ماشينكا ...
ماشينكا هي روسياه ..إنها مليئة بالتفاصيل ....
روسيا يجب أن نحبها ، بدون حبنا نحن المهاجرين ستكون نهاية روسيا...........هناك لا أحد يحبها "
Short and sweet, Nabokov's first novel is impressively strong.
Mary isn't just a girl—she is the idealistic image of Russia, something that exists only in memories of those who left the country.
The themes and characters could definitely have been explored deeper, which is something the short length of the novel didn't allow for, but this doesn't take away from how thought-provoking Mary (a.k.a. Mashenka) can be for a reader who is willing to look beyond the surface.
Of course, Nabokov's prose is vivid and masterful, even though he was only getting started here.
Ich hab es eigentlich vor allem gelesen, weil es so angenehm wenige Seiten hat, und in dieser Angelegenheit wurde ich nicht enttäuscht: Es war schnell wieder vorbei.
I've not read any Nabokov, and neither my wife nor I were willing to accept responsibility for bringing this book home at some point in the last five years, but it looked pretty and it's very slight (two of my favourite things to consider when under pressure to pick a new book before rushing off to catch a bus) and on top of that the premise sounded loaded with melancholia and miserabilia so I felt guaranteed a good time and to look cool whilst having said good time.
For Nabokov the plot was often secondary to how he is able to imbibe the world around us and open our hearts and minds to the wonders of the world, indeed it is almost refreshing for Nabokov to be so straightforward, although I love the originality and experimental nature of his later works and unreliable narrators and involution which ran through most his English language novels, it is nice to experience Nabokov in his pure form, and rather than keeping the secret meaning behind his work locked up for the careful and curious reader to explore and examine, he lays all his pearls out before us, resplendent with the beauty of his prose and the painterly perceptions of his mind;“For a moment he saw life in all its thrilling beauty of its despair and happiness and everything became exalted and mysterious-his own past, Podytagin’s face bathed in pale light, the blurred reflection of the window frame on the blue wall and the two women in dark dresses standing motionless beside them.”
مدتها بود داستان عاشقانهی آروم و دوستداشتنی نخونده بودم. این کتاب رو بخاطر سادگیش دوست داشتم. بخاطر معشوقی که در قصه نبود و لزوم بودنش هم حس نمیشد. چون زندگی کاراکترها هول آرزو و خواستن میگذشت و نه رسیدن یا نرسیدن.  انسانشناسی و روانشناسی کاراکترهای ناباکف بنظرم بینظیره. اون چیزی که خیلیها راجع به داستایوفسکی و کاراکترهاش میگن من نسخهی بسیار پیچیدهتر و موثرتر و موجزترش رو در کارهای ناباکف میبینم.
مدت‌ها بود داستان عاشقانه‌ی آروم و دوست‌داشتنی نخونده بودم. این کتاب رو بخاطر سادگی‌ش دوست داشتم. بخاطر معشوقی که در قصه نبود و لزوم بودنش هم حس نمیشد. چون زندگی کاراکترها هول آرزو و خواستن میگذشت و نه رسیدن یا نرسیدن.  انسان‌شناسی و روانشناسی کاراکترهای ناباکف بنظرم بی‌نظیره. اون چیزی که خیلی‌ها راجع به داستایوفسکی و کاراکترهاش میگن من نسخه‌ی بسیار پیچیده‌تر و موثرتر و موجزترش رو در کارهای ناباکف میبینم.
İlginç bir kurgusu olan bu romanda memleketleri Rusya'dan Almanya'ya göç etmiş Rus pansiyonerlerden Ganin'in ilk aşkı konu ediliyor.
İlginç bekleyişler barındıran ve insan ilişkilerini farklı bir açıdan inceleyen bu ilk roman, Nabokov'un özyaşantısından da parçalar içeriyor.
Nabokov da tıpkı romanın başkahramanı Ganin gibi 16 yaşındayken bir kıza (Valentina ya da "Tamara") aşık oluyor ve ülkesi Rusya'dan Almanya'ya göç etmek zorunda kalıyor.
İlginç bir karakter olan Ganin, ilk aşkını yıllar sonra tüm canlılığıyla hatırlıyor, aşkını adeta zihninde tekrar canlandırıyor/yaşıyor ve gerçekten ona kavuşabilecekken son anda onu anılarına/bilincine gömüp yalnızlığı seçiyor.
Nabokov'un da dediği gibi, sevimli acemilikler içeren bu ilk roman, aslında oldukça ilginç ve heyecan verici.
"Other than the image no Mary existed, nor could exist"Nabakov in just 130odd pages has put into words an idea some friends and I have been grappiling with for some time: when you're in love, you create a concept of the person, which could for all you know be far from the reality.
This story plays on that completely, as Ganin, the protagonist who is likeable but flawed as a person, revels in the memories of his love.
The fact he hasn't seen his Mary in a long time means nothing to him.
I actually prefer this to some of the Nabokov I've already read. It doesn't have the pretentiousness and arrogance evident in many of his later books.It was almost sweet in the innocence.
Oh, my heart.
নবোকভের পরের দিকের বইগুলির সহজাত গুণডামি নাই এই বইয়ে, ভাষার গুণডামি বলেন, রেফারেনসের গুণডামি বলেন, আর মজা নেয়ার আরেক পিঠের গুণডামি — তা সে আসবেই কোতথেকে, তখন নবোকভ মাতর লেখা শুরু করলেন, তাঁর মাতর বিয়েটা হইলো তখন, এইটাই নাকি পরথম উপনযাস তাঁর। এই বইয়ে তাই সেইসব ডিগবাজির চমৎকারিতবও নাই, বরং একটা টানা বলে যাওয়া গলপ আছে, যা কিছুটা রুশী, কিছুটা রিফুজি। অলপ কথার ফাঁকে অনেক সহজ এক নবোকভরে দেখা যায়, তাঁর গলপটা বেশ সপষট বোঝা যায় এই পাতলা উপনযাসের ভেতর দিয়ে, এতটাই পাতলা যেনো সবচছ। কিনতু সুনদর। নবোকভ তাঁর স
নবোকভের পরের দিকের বইগুলির সহজাত গুণ্ডামি নাই এই বইয়ে, ভাষার গুণ্ডামি বলেন, রেফারেন্সের গুণ্ডামি বলে
Nabokov'un 26 yaşında yazdığı ilk romanı "maşenka", Berlin'de bir pansiyonda bir arada yaşayan Rusların etrafında dönüyor. Kısa bir roman olmasına rağmen yoğun ve derin bir yapısı var: karakter zenginliği, bağlılık, göç, memleket ve varoluş meselelerine yaklaşımı takdire değer. zaman zaman betimlemeler yorsa da merak unsuru hiç kaybolmuyor, üstelik sonu da diğer Nabokov romanları gibi vurucu. tavsiye ederim.
