https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/116343.The_Hollow_Hills

“I am nothing, yes; I am air and darkness, a word, a promise.
This book is full of quotable quotes like the above and The Legend of Arthur & Merlin is one of the great tales off all time, but unfortunately this book is a flawed diamond.
At it's worst it reminded me of some of Georgette Heyer's leaden writing in her medieval books.
I think both authors struggled going back so far in time.When Arthur reentered the book the story improved very much.
By book 4 the writing was reminding me of J.R.R. Tolkien.
After the thrills of The Crystal Cave, we pick Merlin up, bleeding on the side of the road out of Tintagel, and watch as he begins his journey into the life of the boy who will be King Arthur.
We are able to see him as a man who is given the difficult role of shaping the right future for a nation by trusting that God is behind him in whatever he must do.
In The Crystal Cave, we see Merlin as a boy and a youth, learning about his god and how to wield his powers.
An excellent follow up to The Crystal Cave & beautifully read.
It's the same in style & tone, too.
I want to call this 'old school' fantasy.
There is no graphic sex, violence, or even any flashy magic, but there is an aura of mystery & pomp that permeates the entire story.
There is a hard core of realism tempered by spirituality that defines the world & the magic.
The descriptions are lyric, too.
A fantastic break from the current style of writing & yet not boring at all.
In many ways it reminds me of the Lord of the Rings.
Excellent.
The first half was 3 stars, but the second half was amazing. More later!
I enjoyed more than the first book (I didn't think it was possible).
Well, when I read the first book in the series l loved it but as I go on reading the second book I began to feel more and more excited even though Mary Stewart made me wait to let happen what I looked forward to coming.
If this series even a little seems interesting, you shouldn't miss and read them :))) I don't know how this story will go on until 5th book but I can't wait to read them all :))
Mary Stewart’s Arthurian books are certainly very different to her romance/mystery ones.
First, Merlin knows what’s going to happen, at least broadly, and secondly, it’s the Arthurian legend.
I really must look up Bedwyr’s involvement with Gwenhwyfar more — several modern tellings align him with her, and I can’t remember what might spark that.Still, Stewart’s writing is good, and the sense of atmosphere she brings to the more far-flung settings for her romance/mystery stories is equally strong here, in the cold and damp corners of Britain.
A beautiful, wonderfully written story. Even the Christians are treated fair (unlike the previous volume). One star out for a redundant episode: Merlin is caught three times, each time being released once recognized. Not unbelievable given the circumstances; however, the author could have done that part of the tale much better.
I found Merlin to be just as obstinate as the character of Uther at times because he doesn't like to be challenged.
And I think at times Stewart tries to over explain the appeal of the character of Arthur to those around him.
We have at the end of this book the death of Uther and her long gone son becoming king, you would think she would be nearby.
We finally get to the end of the book with Arthur becoming king, but we also know because of the events in this one, an ill wind is blowing his way.
(I am not sure what else I can say that has not already been said about this book.) My favorite passage:"If it was indeed the King's sword of Britain, and Arthur was to be the King who would lift it, it must lie in a place as holy and as haunted as the shrine where I myself had found it.
I was the god's instrument, but I was not the god's hand."I particularly loved the way Mary Stewart brings Arthur and Merlin together in the Wild Forest; I would say the moment they finally meet face to face shines through as a favorite of mine.
In the case of this book Additionally we are in a vacuum of the story between the conception of Arthur and his taking of the crown so necessarily the author must improvise and here we fall in a problematic situation.
Στην περίπτωση αυτού του βιβλίου επιπρόσθετα βρισκόμαστε σε ένα κενό της ιστορίας ανάμεσα στη σύλληψη του Αρθούρου και της ανάληψης της βασιλείας οπότε αναγκαστικά η συγγραφέας πρέπει να αυτοσχεδιάσει και εδώ πέφτουμε σε μία προβληματική κατάσταση.
Εκεί τα γεγονότα που οδήγησαν στην ανακήρυξη του Αρθούρου ως βασιλιά περιγράφονται με έναν πολύ ωραίο τρόπο με τη συγγραφέα να μεταφέρει πάρα πολύ καλά τα συναισθήματα των πρωταγωνιστών και να μας συστήνει τους ανθρώπους που θα μας απασχολήσουν λογικά στη συνέχεια.
Ralf especially will be more featured in the next phases, and I missed him in more than 1/2 of all these pages.And Arthur (10 to 14 years old here in the flesh) is as excellent as the presupposition and all of Merlin's manipulations would equal for his real physical and mental states to be.
And I like Merlin's growth in seer abilities and consolidations of his powers here- done slowly and with much less severe and heroic boundaries of using others as much as he did in his extreme youth.This is a spectacular and beautiful period book but quite overlong.
God knows that I have had more than a man's share of rich memories; the lives and deaths of kings, the coming and going of gods, the founding and destroying of kingdoms.
But it is not always these great events that stick in the mind: here, now, in this final darkness, it is the small times that come back to me most vividly, the quiet human moments which I should like to live again, rather than the flaming times of power.
Oh, should I mention that this is going straight to my favorites shelf along with the first book?!
In part 2 of the Arthurian saga we have, instead of Excalibur, Caliburn. The sword is claimed by Arthur in a different manner from the traditional story but still fits nicely with the theme. As with book 1, I think Hollow Hills is also a great book and keeps the reader yearning to move on to part 3.
You're not afraid of anything that's real.""That's what I mean," I said.
[Arthur] said, with little to be heard in his tone except exasperation: "How long will it be before you realize that I would give my life itself to keep you from hurt?"569.
[Arthur] said, flatly, and as if it explained everything, as I suppose it did: "I thought you were my father." ...
It was not my prophecy, it was made before I was born; that the sword should come by water and by land, treasured in darkness and locked in stone, until he should come who is rightwise king born of all Britain, and lift it from its hiding-place.
Mm. I could literally roll in Stewart's writing. Seriously. Like a dog. It's just... the setting of it all is so rich it's like Middle Earth. Only, er, real. Sort of. And not quite as gorgeous and fantastic - but close.
Merlin himself lives in his own legend in this book, as The Hollow Hills tells the tale of Arthur, and Merlin’s role in his rise to the throne.Book II: The Rise of the KingThe second book starts shortly after the first ends.
Stewart might have taken a similar form of criticism as in the continuation of the tale, less characters are introduced and less therefore, go away.Of course, the main introduction of the novel would be Arthur, who we get to see raised from around the age of 9.
The king is dead! Long live the King!!The second book in the series. It starts with the birth of Arthur and ends with the Death of King Uther and the ascension of Arthur to the throne. There are some real gems in this book. I enjoyed it thoroughly and am looking forward to the next book.
Others have reviewed this book at great length, so I'll just focus in on what has stayed with me since my first reading (I've read this series multiple times): the relationship between Merlin and Arthur.
In so many tellings of this tale, Merlin appears only at the beginning--to prophesy Arthur's coming, to teach him and prophesy his death, and then to disappear.
Arthur may mourn the loss of a guide/teacher/enchanter, but the relationship between the two is not as important as Arthur's relationship with Lancelot or Guinever.Here, Stewart builds a strong familial connection between the two (and, in fact, Merlin and Arthur are first cousins in this re-telling).
I loved the way that this very famous part of the Arthur saga was dealt with in such a totally believable way.(view spoiler)[Mryddin first having a treasure hunt to find a long lost sword from Maximus, having found it hides it again in a place where Arthur would find it later.
There was no Lady of the Lake figure, but with Myrddin hiding it on an island in the midde of a lake gave the story it's necessary mystery with Arthur discovering it at precisely the right moment.As for the sword in the stone, again a brilliant version.
(hide spoiler)]The descriptive and writing stlye of Mary Stewart brings the story truly to life for me in a way that is mystical yet believable.
The Mists of Avalon ruined any other Arthur legend tales for me. I know this is a famous and well-loved version of the story (written by a woman, even), but it's just too Christian and patriarchal for me.
Much more than 5 stars. What a satisfying read!!!! I liked this one even more than The Crystal Cave. I am excited to read the continuing story in The Last Enchantment with Arthur now as King. Full review to follow. So beautifully told.
The Hollow Hills is the second book in Mary Stewart's Arthurian saga and covers the fifteen years between Arthur's birth and his acclamation as High King as experienced by Merlin, who spends much of it avoiding the limelight and traveling to Asia Minor and Constantinople.
A feeling deliberately enforced by Stewart, whose Merlin consistently emphasizes his passivity (and other's) in the unfolding of events - everything that happens is the will of the God (who may manifest as the Christian God, Mithras or any other divine being) and all we can do is accept it.It drains the saga of any dramatic tension.Another distraction I found was Arthur himself.
Ok, the first book of this series was just so so for me..then I started this one. Oh my! I am loving it. Merlin goes on a search for the legendary sword, Arthur grows up, Uther the king passes and so much more. Written so that you feel you are right there with Merlin leaning over his shoulders.
A classic, beautifully told story.
It’s just not that compelling.Definitive, Unofficial Ranking of Arthurian Novels (that I’ve read):The Crystal Cave, by Mary Stewart (1970, Book One of the Merlin Trilogy)The Hollow Hills, by Mary Stewart (1973, Book Two of the Merlin Trilogy)* The other is Merlin’s old nurse, and all she really does is praise him.** Of course there is not actually a lady involved, because we couldn’t have that any powerful females in the story.
While the characters in the story were interesting enough, the fact that Merlin is not in fact an enchanter of immense power is a take on the saga that I did not particularly care for.
There were significant parts of the book where the author presented info dumps of rather uninteresting information.Furthermore, there was never a set belief that Merlin seemed to hold to.
I felt like I was present in many scenes, and I could understand and relate to Merlin in his endeavors.
I remember the Hollow Hills as one story with the Crystal Cave, so I repeat my review.
H. White’s Once and Future King, and other accounts of Arthur and the Knights, including translations of Sir Gawain and the Green Knight—but my very favorite of all these stories was those written by Mary Stewart in the 1970s, the Crystal Cave and the Hollow Hills.
These are stories of his search for his father, for adventure, for the destiny that would lead him, first, to his father and his uncle, and then to Arthur.
Written by Mary Stewart (1916) and first published in 1973 with Arthur and Merlin as the main protagonists.
From Stewart's web site "Merlin is the narrator, not King Arthur; they are set in the 5th century, rather than the 12th ; and the settings and customs of this time period were thoroughly researched and meticulously described.
Her stories take a beloved, if rather tired, legend and make it fresh again." In her own words ""I've written stories since I was three and a half, and I think you're either born with the storyteller's flair or you're not.
You can learn much about the craft of writing, but you either have the storyteller's flair or you don't.
I couldn't help feeling as if I were reading the author's background notes or justification for fitting her version of the tale into the older myths.
If you read the Wikipedia plot summary, you can see really only three or four things happen.
If you do read the Wikipedia plot summary, you shouldn't feel like you missed much by not reading the book itself.
If I had gained insight into magic or Merlin's heart or something, I wouldn't have complained, but in all those other pages there is this: Descriptions of trees and some history and a few people telling each other things that have already happened in scene.
Sequel to The Crystal Cave.
This one introduces Arthur and takes us up through the events of his coronation.
I'm still stuck on these questions of man and God, power and destiny, but I want to hold off until I'm done with the series.
Except to say that I personally find man-made so much more compelling than God-made, even though God-made is dazzling and extraordinary.
Destiny is such a cheap storytelling trick (yeah, you too, JKR) andStewart conducts a razor dance of intention and fate and volition with the Gods' vessel Merlin as her narrator and Arthur his perfectly designed charge.
