https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6854.Three_to_Get_Deadly
Book Review  4 of 5 stars to Three to Get Deadly, the third book in the "Stephanie Plum" mystery series written by Janet Evanovich. This was one of the more funny books, as the cast of characters just keeps growing full of hilarity. And if you love ice cream, you need to read this one. Stephanie's kinda like that cousin or old friend who keeps popping back into your life, kinda needs a favor, but is a kick ass person who just sometimes doesn't know how to get things under control. But she keep
4 of 5 stars to Three to Get Deadly, the third book in the "Stephanie Plum" mystery series written by Janet Evanovich.
And if you love ice cream, you need to read this one.
Stephanie's kinda like that cousin or old friend who keeps popping back into your life, kinda needs a favor, but is a kick ass person who just sometimes doesn't know how to get things under control.
Evanovich gets in her stride in this series with this book, as she has a good, repeatable pattern and formula, but always throws a few surprises in.
Since it is a simple job, his apprehension is assigned to the newest bountyhunter - Stephanie Plum, a woman of mystery!!...
See, and people say these books don't have real mystery in them, HA!Well, Trenton's population is angry with her for trying to put saintly uncle Mo in jail, as well as a young and cute man who works in a fast food chicken restaurant.
Yep, if that doesn't make you want to read the book, you really need to chill!!!
I hope you guys pick up the series to discover, or to remind yourself of why we read such light books - enjoy!!!
I don’t know who should be more frightened, Joe Morelli or the criminals she’s searching for.As the books continue, the inevitable character progression always fascinates me.
I expect nothing less of the characters in the Stephanie Plum series.Grandma Mazur holds a special place in my heart.
My momma always says she wants to be Mazur or Lula.
He shows up a little in this book, and the verbal sparring matches between Stephanie and Dickie are priceless.“Bitch,” Dickie said.“Dickhead.”His eyes narrowed.
I got a divorce.”This book took some interesting and gruesome turns.Stephanie, as always, forces her chin up and remains strong.
This third trip to the ‘Burg finds Stephanie involved in a missing persons case.
Everyone’s favorite business owner, Uncle Moe, has gone FTA and is nowhere to be found.
No one is interested in helping Stephanie lock up their favorite candy man.
Who doesn’t love puppies and sweets?Three To Get Deadly also featured a record-high body count, and the return of everyone’s favorite former ho .
I’m giving this one 4 Stars again and there’s a good chance I’ll be downloading #4 if it’s available before this weekend’s (thankfully shorter) road trip.
Stephanie Plum makes me want to be a bounty hunter. I can't be any worse than her.
In this third book in the 'Stephanie Plum' series, the bounty hunter is looking for a beloved candy store owner.
The book can be read as a standalone.*****When Trenton, New Jersey native Stephanie Plum lost her department store job, she became a bounty hunter for her cousin Vinnie.
He hasn't even opened his candy shop for two days, which is unprecedented.While Stephanie's looking for Mo she discovers the bodies of dead drug dealers all over Trenton, and is threatened by vigilantes who want her to leave Mo alone.
Lula gets on my nerves (even though she's a sweetheart,) and Stephanie has the "oops!
hehe" sense of humor that just always seems to be getting her in trouble.
Don't get me wrong, I love reading these books and enjoy the men characters especially, but I think one of the other members of goodreads.com said it best when she claimed she needed a break between each of these books because they are such and easy, quick read.
For me, they aren't books that I think about much after I am finished with them, just ones that I enjoy during the reading process :)
This was another light and fun instalment of the Stephanie Plum series.
Unfortunately for Stephanie the whole neighbourhood loves local sweet shop owner Uncle Mo and are more interested in scolding her for harassing the poor guy than they are in helping her find him.
We got more of the Stephanie and Joe "romance" which I liked.
We also got to see plenty more of both Ranger and Lula.
Lula was almost as hilarious as Granny Mazur.All in all a fun read.
J. Critt and think she did a good job with this one.
It’s a good thing.
I never read murder mysteries unless written by Carl Hiaasen.The inevitable day came when I found myself without a new book to read.
You don’t read the Stephanie Plum series for the plot necessarily, although some are clever.
It’s the daffy characters and ‘I Love Lucy’ situations.I am going to read them all (he says) and will add them to my bookshelf here only for my Boy Scout merit badge.
The Stephanie Plum series is an industry unto itself, but don’t let this put you off from giving them a go.
Adaptation is one of the great advantages to being born and bred in New Jersey. We're simply not bested by bad air or tainted water. We're like that catfish with lungs. Take us out of our environment and we can grow whatever body parts we need to survive. After Jersey the rest of the country's a piece of cake. You want to send someone into a fallout zone? Get him from Jersey. He'll be fine. I've never been to New Jersey, or anywhere in the Northeast part of the U.S.. And, from the colorful desc
Adaptation is one of the great advantages to being born and bred in New Jersey.
I've never been to New Jersey, or anywhere in the Northeast part of the U.S..
I don't think I want to change that.
Of course, nothing is ever as easy as it should be for Stephanie.
She manages to fumble her way into extremely dangerous situations and has a habit of getting her cars blown-up.
That thing is the only vehicle that can survive Stephanie.
And, eventually, Stephanie always gets stuck back in that car.
Actually, it's kind of cool...Even Stephanie's poor little hamster, Rex, gets into danger because of her.
Not as exciting as the first two, but still wonderful! Lots of laughs with a few touches of terror. Poor Rex. Good thing he's a fighter. These books are for pure enjoyment. My 'bubble gum books'.Reread- March 2018
While I appreciate that the Stephanie Plum books are meant to be humourous light reading, Evanovich downplays what the Candy Man (Uncle Mo) has actually been doing and even seems to want you to feel sorry for him.
I'm probably in a small minority here especially among Stephanie Plum fans but this has really put me off reading any more in this series.Lula's character development was good and Lula also provided most of the humour in the book.
Especially as Grandma Mazur took a back seat this time.Stephanie is absolutely hopeless, a bounty hunter that forgets her gun...
I listen to books at night when I can't sleep. The bad thing about listening to these Stephanie Plum books is that I spend a lot of time laughing and this kinda defeats the goal of getting me back to sleep.I'm sure these books are just as funny in writing, but the audio versions are really good. The narrator does a great job with all the different character voices. I'm glad I finally started this series.
I enjoy these books. I love Lula & Grandma Mazur! They are two of the funniest characters in any books ever!! Books like these that can make me laugh out loud are priceless!!
“I make lots of mistakes. I try hard not to make the same mistake more than three or four times.”  Stephanie Plum novels were my after break-up go-to books in high school.Getting a heart broken at the age of 16? Just invite Steph into your room and it will get mend within hours, smile back on your face!That was the reason I only read the first two: been saving all the following sequels for years to come.And the reason why I haven't picked them up in the past 7-8 years was because I was afraid t
“I make lots of mistakes.
Stephanie Plum novels were my after break-up go-to books in high school.Getting a heart broken at the age of 16?
Just invite Steph into your room and it will get mend within hours, smile back on your face!That was the reason I only read the first two: been saving all the following sequels for years to come.And the reason why I haven't picked them up in the past 7-8 years was because I was afraid the magic is gone.That I enjoyed them so much simply because I didn't know better.Now I find myself silly and feel ashamed for the lack of faith.Stephanie is as good (or bad?) as ever!Absolutely loved this book, been having the biggest grin on my face from the page 1!So happy this is pretty much an infinite series and I can enjoy it forever now!PS I really need Grandma Mazur to be alive and rocking in all the following sequels.
This was a great read.
I really enjoyed the humor in the story.
The characters are great to read and they make me laugh.
She does not always know how to handle situations, but she is a person who gives it her all, and that is something that I admire about her.
I thought that the story was great.
I have found a new love for the mystery genre, and I am glad because these books are funny, while other series are not.
So I get to see the differences between both types of mystery books.
I cannot wait to read the fourth book.
Heaps of fun and laugh-out-loud funny. (I hate the work (is it a word?) LOL). A fab series!
I am so enjoying these books! Great fun!
When dead bodies start turning up and Stephanie finds herself being threatened by masked gun men warning her to stop looking for Mo she knows she's out of her league so she calls in the help of bounty hunter extraordinaire Ranger.This series is just so much fun to read, Stephanie is such a trouble magnet and she always manages to stumble into such crazy situations that you just have to laugh at her antics.
In Three to Get Deadly we see her crazy sidekick Lula play a bigger part, we also get to find out a bit more about Ranger (personally I like Lula's theory that he's a secret superhero in his spare time!) and of course we see more of our favourite local cop Morelli.
But I rarely laugh out loud.
Dare I hope it continues?This is the continuing saga of wacky Stephanie Plum, girl Bounty Hunter.
Every good crime solver needs a side-kick and in the last book Stephanie had her equally wacky grandmother, but this time she's paired up with a big-breasted brass ex-ho keen to learn the ins and outs (I'll just pause here while you think about it)of Bounty Huntering.
Stephanie Plum.
It's a riot of dead bodies, close shaves, coitus again interruptus and enough dinners with the family to make Stephanie's eye twitch.
All in all, a delightful read and really good for loosening phlegm.
Grandma Mazur cracks me up, as well as a few other characters.
I like how Ranger stays the mysterious character; it's fun trying to guess about him.
And Stephanie ~ I guess you could say the Italian in her shines through.
And I really like her.
She may not be brave, but she's tenacious, and the thoughts in her head make me crack up just the same.
And Joe...what I wouldn't do to actually meet him (if he were real, of course).
Joyce - she got what she deserved.
I just wish someone would actually smack Vinnie.
He deserves it.
Each character is vividly colourful.
More Stephanie Plum.
I did not like this one as much as the others.
It has a few good parts like when her hair gets dyed orange and a when a body flew off the roof of a car on the interstate.
You do get to know Ranger more in this book, but other than that I had a hard time reading it.
The case she was working was not very interesting and I got tired of reading about her feeding her hamster and taking a shower.
Maybe in the next book...
Loving this Series. Off to read book 4! this book makes me want to be a bounty hunter with orange hair LOL
Ce troisième tome me voit atteinte de Stephanie-Plumite aigüe, c'est décidé, je passe l'été à Trenton, dans le New Jersey !
Je suis particulièrement fan de la Buick 1953, du duo formé avec Lula, des courses-poursuites qui virent au ridicule (le coup du cadavre qui tombe sur leur voiture, puis du corps fourgué dans le coffre avec un foulard autour du pied en guise de fanion ...
ha !), du mystère Ranger, de son potentiel de super-héros, même si je fonds pour le charme canaille de Morelli, sa façon de voler au secours de Stephanie, et de lui faire du rentre-dedans, hiiii, c'est délicieusement sexy, rigolo, complètement barré, bref j'ai pris mes quartiers !
I’ll be honest and say I didn’t get much out of this book.
When I realized that one book didn’t build on the other in this series, I didn’t bother to rewind if I missed something.
I’m pretty sure I missed half this book.Plus, the cat and mouse between Stephanie and Joe is not endearing but rather annoying.
I’ll give an author a pass on one, but this author continues to use this multiple times in each book.I would prefer if the half ass romance wasn’t in the book.
She repeats the dames mistakes in each book.Narrator is good.
I have read three of these books in a week, loving them but I think I may be overdoing it. The thing I love about Stephanie Plum is that she is very relatable and very human.
Three to Get Deadly by Janet Evanovich continues with the trials of Stephanie Plum, bounty hunter for her Uncle Vincent Plum 's bail bond company.
This time she's searching for Moses Bedemier AKA as Uncle Mo. He was stopped for a traffic infraction and he had an unloaded concealed weapon.
Lulu and Stephanie return to Mo's.
Lulu finds house keys.
Stephanie finds some dirty magazines mixed in with the tv guides.
Joe Morelli from the police department tries to discover what Stephanie knows.
She hears the intruder open the cellar door.
They smash open the bathroom door knocks her heads and she's knocked unconscious.
Stephanie è meno ragazzina e Morelli non ha solo una cosa in testa.
Forse di più Morelli..che volete sono gusti *_*Sei primi libri erano frivoli qui notiamo un salto di qualità nella trama nello spessore dei personaggi.
La nostra Stephanie è sempre una cacciatrice di taglie e questa volta è alle prese con la sparizione di Zio Mo. Un'istituzione a Trentor, dove ha un negozio di caramelle.
Lo scoprirete solo leggendo le folli avventure di questa cacciatrice di taglie fuori dal normale.
il supereroe muahahahahahaha.Sono davvero contenta di avere iniziato a leggere questa saga.
Mi fa davvero dimenticare ogni cosa e sorridere ^_^
What started as the easiest apprehension, turned into a nightmare.
Uncle Mo, the neighborhood friendly ice cream man, skipped his court date and disappears.
Plum has the whole town against her for trying to apprehend Uncle Mo, as uncle mo can do no wrong.
The steamy chemistry between plum and sexy-sugarry-donut-cream cop Joe Morelli is getting ever so strong.
The crazy Grandma Mazur was pushed to the background with the return of Lula.
Lula is by far my second most favorite character, after Grandma Mazur.
To add to the misfortunes Stephanie Plum ditches the buick and buys a Nissan.
I liked the book.
Another fun, cute story.
I loved the "And I have orange hair!" scene with the bad guys who torment Stephanie, as well as the one of finding out all the little old women and men in her apartment complex have guns.
They were quite silly scenes.
The audiobook, however, tested my ability to get through it.
I really didn't care for the audiobook voice artist of the one I found at the library.
She did a pretty good job reading, but I didn't enjoy the whole of listening to her reading the book.
