https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/74814.The_First_Days_of_School
It's not that the book is necessarily poor, but I believe that it is best-suited for K-5 teachers, who deal with students at a much earlier point in their development.
It is unnecessary to devote a full-length chapter to convey the benefits of dressing professionally.
Furthermore, it is equally unnecessary to devote a section of the book to the topic of "how to take attendance".As previously stated, perhaps this book would be best for elementary school teachers.
In my opinion, it is not the best book for secondary educators, although admittedly my experience may bias my judgment.
That's a scary thought for me, because I've never been a big believer in Wong's ideals about what teaching is.He largely stays on the surface here, with how to dress, what to put on the walls, how to make a strong impression, etc.
For the more liberally minded educator (such as myself), this book flies in the face of what I believe makes a strong, well rounded classroom.I gave it two stars because it's not without some good ideas.
I can't give it more than two stars because it is, like Harry Wong, somewhat short minded in its process.
This book taught me several things that were not taught in my teaching courses, for example:- How sp
All signs pointed to 'yes': an administrator I respected recommended this book as a good manual on how to approach classroom management from the beginning of the year, it was referenced often as a good starting point for new teachers, it was the same size and shape as Fred Jones' Tools for Teaching.But Harry K.
They self-published this book so they could have complete control over every aspect of it, which means that it's full of their weird adages, rhetoric, and platitudes about being an "effective" (versus an "ineffective") teacher.Some of the stuff in here is good, solid advice, mostly in the middle three chapters (classroom management, lesson mastery, and something else I can't remember).
Particularly irritating to me was how much of the "ALL students can succeed!" message was based in the idea that success would automatically come if the teacher was effective.
Of course I'm not knocking effective teachers (I would like to be one, obviously) and am not saying that teachers shouldn't try and be the absolute best they can, but after awhile there are factors outside of the classroom that teachers just can't solve: poverty, family issues, available resources, etc., that contribute to student success.
If Harry Wong tried these strategies with my students, he'd get shanked.
Wong's emphasis on previewing procedures, setting the tone, and making effective use of class time is correct.
I attended the IU school of education in the late '90s, and I speculate that they did not use Wong's book because it was already old-school by that point.Harry K.
Keene has some good ideas, but only Wong can give you the practical advice to make them work.I have been and continue to be a huge Responsive Classroom fan.
Wong points out that this can be kind of a trivial activity because many rules are already set by the school or the teacher.
This establishes the teacher as the central authoritative figure and attempts to give them control over the classroom via various manipulative strategies.
Though the teacher is typically the centre of the classroom, a learning-focused method of teaching (rather than maintaining organizational structure as is suggested in Wong's methodology) is more successful at educating students.
This extends into the framework of modern Western education, but regardless of a teacher's position in a school district full of rules, treating children as human beings, rather than unruly pests to be tamed and controlled, is what should be sought.
I'm drafting up a lawsuit against my teaching college for not exposing me to this book. Possibly class action, on behalf of my first-year students. These are insights that I could easily have come up with on my own, if left to my own devices for 20 years or so. I'm glad I didn't have to do that. The book doesn't beat around the bush. The important parts are in bold, with pictures and diagrams. Any teacher can benefit from reading this book, or even just flipping through it for the key points.
Honestly, I am amazed that a book that describes itself (relentlessly) in such helpful (some might even say arrogant or dogmatic) terms can (and does) offer so little in tangible help for new teachers.
It's not meant to be "the solution" for every situation that arises in the first few days of school.
I pick and choose my inspiration based on the current classroom reality I'm dealing with as a teacher.I would recommend this book to any teacher who knows the power of reflection.
Additionally, I'd recommend this book to new teachers, especially those who are content-knowledge rich, but pedagogically poor (the new teacher who has a master's degree in history, but has never taken a methods class or a classroom management class).
As other reviews have noted:This isn't a book you "read".
Read, no.This is very "old school".
The school I will be teaching at thoroughly embraces many of his suggestion (all the teachers stand at the door when classes change).
This was a very practical book with clear examples of what you should and should not do.I did not like the layout.
This book could probably be 1/3 to 1/2 the size with a better layout and getting to the point.
Extremely repetitive and full of self-promotion. I am not sure why it takes 300+ pages to say that your class will run smoothly if you have routines in place. There are a few chapters in the classroom management section that are worth reading but the the rest of the book is not. I felt like this book places 100% of the responsibility for learning on the teacher and claims that the only factor which affects student learning is the teacher's "attitude." Way too much behaviorism in this book.
Some administrator at a job interview mentioned this book... I was kind of hung up on the male teachers should wear ties part and couldn't go much further. I can't think of one good idea I found in this book.
I am a fan of the Wongs' The Classroom Management Book, not so much this one.
The First Days of School is probably a great book for some new teachers.
"Dress for Success" and "Have your Classroom Ready" are right up there with "Show up on time." Totally important, but not what I need to read a book about.Edit: I'm coming back to this review to add a star.
The more I reflect on it, the final section of the book on growing as a professional and teacher leadership were pretty great.
Harry and Rosemary Wong have set out to streamline classroom management (versus "discipline") in this easy-to-follow guide.
They posit that a smooth-running classroom is the responsibility of the teacher and the result of the teacher's ability to teach procedures.Following procedures helps students do their work with less confusion and thus help them succeed.
This was my Bible when I first began teaching high school and 5 years later, I always glance over this about a week or so before school starts to keep my focus in the right place.
I've had to fight with administrators at times as I reward my kids with 1/2 hour of "no lecture" time - a fun game I invent or class-related jeopardy, etc..
And every year when I review the book I'm able to incorporate more & more into my room.
I've kept 95% of what I've tried and adopted from this book.
I've given all but one of them away to student teachers I've mentored, people I know who think about going into teaching, or anyone who is interested.
I LOVE THIS BOOK!!!!!I was first introduced to Harry Wong in an intro teaching class back in 1999 at CMU.
He is a teacher so he knows if its something you have to spend a massive amount of time planning for & getting materials together for you aren't going to do it.
I got this book in my first year of teaching elementary school (won during a raffle at a teacher-induction program/in-service), and it proved to be invaluable at different stages of my career (however brief- 6 years) as a teacher.
This is one of those books that should be on the bookshelves of every modern classroom teacher.If I had any criticisms, it would be that Mr. Wong does not address how to navigate the demands of standardized testing, prescribed curricula, and the joy and art of teaching.
However, Harry Wong has some bizarre ideas about the teaching profession, many of which I do not agree with.
The most obvious example that springs to mind is his view on "dressing as a professional." (Yes, there is an entire section devoted to this.) He states that teachers should dress professionally because students see their parents leave home in business attire and that is what they have learned to equate with a professional adult.
What schools has he been teaching in?
In the rural school where I work, the majority of the parents are not leaving for work in suits.
The district I am moving to asked I read this book over the summer so I thought I should count this toward my "to-read" goal this year.
I read it as a first year teacher...well, not all of it.
It was interesting going back and reading it now that I've been teaching for five years.
I do agree with Wong's philosophies, although some of them are a little "perfect world." But, I agree that we can't get bogged down with making excuses and looking at the things we cannot control.
I can control myself and how I interact with my students.
This is a wonderfully informative book valuable to rookie and professional teachers alike. As someone looking to begin her first year of teaching in the fall, I found all this information to be relevant and eye-opening. If by some miracle I receive the opportunity to start my teaching career this year, you can be assured that I will use Harry Wong's methodologies.
Being a new teacher is scary, there are so many things to do and where do we even begin?
This book was recommended to me by one of the veteran teachers who I look up to in many ways.
It was a little redundant, but has some great ideas and insights on important things to focus on.
I did see a review here that mentions that the book only scratches the surface, which is very true, but it’s also only to be used for the surface.
Some procedures that I hadn’t thought of were listed, and various ways to deal with various situations.
I started to read this book because of the large number of people who have recommended it...but I was fairly disappointed and only read about half of it. I felt like most of the tips/tricks in the book were obvious and nothing new.
"Don't teach", maybe?).The middle three chapters have useful advice.
Oh, and never argue with students, because by doing so you've already lost precious time for teaching the rest of the class.For college students, who have a lot of implicit knowledge about how school should work, and less structured classes, this book is less useful.
I will take going forward what to do in the opening minutes of class, those dead minutes before class actually starts, setting procedures so that students know what to expect every day and start learning, and a list of "learning verbs" to use in assignments.
I will be teaching high school chemistry next year and think I can certainly adapt strategies from this book for my own classroom.
If you do that, you can adapt anything in this book for any classroom in any county.
I hope that one day I can start a PD that focuses on a using this book as a book study to improve the school culture as a whole.
Teachers: read this book!
Rather, use it as a reference book before the start of the year and make sure you are prepared enough to create am inviting classroom community and have procedures in place to help your students succeed.
Though clearly geared toward elementary school, this book nonetheless has many helpful procedural tips that can be easily tweaked and implemented in the high school classroom--I only wish I hadn't waited until the weekend before school started to read it.
Overall, when taken in moderation, the idea of explaining procedure and spending a little bit of time at the start of the year making it habit can never be a bad idea.
They key concepts are good--how you set up procedures, and set the tone for the classroom in the BEGINNING of the year impacts how things go for the rest of that year.
Absolutely.
The time management and procedural advice is brilliant.
But Wong seeks to divorce teaching from much of its cultural context.
"There is absolutely no research correlation between success and family background, race, national origin, financial status, or even educational accomplishments." Hmm...
Compared to Kozol (Shame of the Nation), Freire (Pedagogy of the Oppressed) and many others, I don't think these assertions hold up.
But still a good look at classroom management and procedures.
I have taught special ed for 5 years and moved to a general education classroom this year. I remember reading this book during student teaching and thinking it was the best thing since sliced bread. After reading it now I feel like it's just mediocre. There are some good ideas but not anything life changing that will make or break your school year. The largest focus is procedures and relationships which I feel like every teacher should know is important prior to reading this book.
Despite the corny, kiddish cover and the lame rectangular shape of this book, it is extremely helfpful for first year teachers or teachers (ahem, Christian!) who aren't, well, the most organized. It's not a classic for nothing! Oh, and ignore all the silly illustrations, and skip over the parts about how "noble" it is for teachers to drive Chevys, too. Now that I think about it, maybe I should just photocopy the good parts for you.
