https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2497026.The_Watch_Tower
The lives and expectations of women were so different at that time so the novel must be read with that in mind.Laura and Clare Vaizey are happy at their Sydney boarding school when their father dies suddenly and their lives change forever.
It is not until a catalyst, in the form of a stranger coming into their lives, that events are set in motion that lead to Clare's escape.This was not an enjoyable book to read as I did not like any of the characters however the writing is very sharp and clean and the tension is gradually built to a point where you can feel the girls holding their breath when they here Felix arrive home before they know what sort of mood he is in.
This story is about Clare and Laura, two sisters who live in Sydney in the 1940s.
She hides the most cruel scenes in-between chapters about everyday life, and it's up to the reader to realise what is really going on without explicitly being told.
All they have is each other, and therefore they have to cling to each other as they grow up.All in all, I think this is a beautiful story about what circumstances can do to you and your development in life.
This story is filled with symbolism, and it has a beautiful, bittersweet ending.
One of the sisters gives in, one of them does not (lose the blood relationship, and doesn't this sound familiar, Elena?) All of this takes place is lovely, Jamesian prose, which lets Harrower lay out some great psychology: "Looking into the intense darkness of Felix's gaze was not like looking into the eyes of an insane person, though the internal resistance was similar; yet it in no way resembled the experience of looking into the eyes of another nominally rational human being.
His eyes were rather peep-holes through which a force could be glimpsed, primitive, chilling, subterranean beyond definition."Though the sisters are great characters, this Felix gent is one of the great males of twentieth century literature: despite being utterly horrific, Harrower constantly makes her reader feel for him.
I simply had to read it this weekend.
Which is really the best way to read a book I think....all in one go.
Overall I liked Harrower's writing and ideas enormously.
I don't get this particular sentence." but apart from that, it was a good read.
How do you think adults get to know each other?' They had no idea.
Because they knew that just as they had (luckily) been born young and children, grown-us came into being old and made that way.' This book was originally published in 1966 but has been republished by Text Classics with an introduction by Joan London.
'(R)ead it as if it were a thriller, though no one is murdered. There is only...the death of a heart.' Joan London in the Text Classics Introduction of this brilliant novel.
Laura and Clare are the unwanted children of a neglectful, absent father and a self-indulgent mother.
In Sydney Stella indulges her whims with petty cruelties, attacks on the girls’ self esteem, and sabotages any good memories they might have of their father by blaming him for their financial straits.
All the work of running the household in its genteel poverty falls to Laura who becomes a surrogate mother to Clare.Disastrously, Stella also farms Laura out to work, and it is at the mind-numbing factory which makes plastic boxes, that Laura comes to the notice of Felix Shaw, who quixotically decides to marry her.
So here they are, Felix the deranged and violent successful business man and apparent saviour , decades older than his wife Laura and her even younger sister Clare, both of who have been deserted by their father through death, and their mother through complete self centredness.
By the end of the novel, we understand that Clare may indeed come through into the light, that she at last sees herself as a person, a person moreover with something to offer others.
Sharp study of suburban tyranny.
Another book from my English I reading list28 April 2012 I read this book once for English I a long time ago (1996) and I am highly unlikely to read it again. In fact I no longer own a copy of this book, having passed it on to one of my friends who had enrolled in English I after me (though by that time the reading list had changed). I must say that there was something different between text books in High School and text books at university, namely in Highschool we did not have to purchase them.
In fact I no longer own a copy of this book, having passed it on to one of my friends who had enrolled in English I after me (though by that time the reading list had changed).
I guess that is why Stephen King is so popular (though his use of the supernatural to supplement his literary horror adds to it).
This book does it through the use of being trapped (similar to Misery) and one thing that I remember my lecturer talking about was the ultimate horror of being trapped in one's own flesh.
We see this, in a way, in Silence of the Lambs (another book, or actually a movie, on our reading list).
excruciating but a must read
This isn't really a book I can say I enjoyed.
It's masterfully written, yes, and lives up to the forgotten treasure billing Harrower's works have been given - but Jesus, it's a difficult thing to get through.
Add in some on-again, off-again alcoholism and some domestic violence and misogyny and you've all the making of a Real Fun Time.
Not. Emptiness and inertia are key to the book.
Silence, everyone!Harrower's work is simply, evocatively presented.
The spectre of domestic violence, the robbery of vitality and the struggle to escape the control of an older man wring out the reader as they do the sisters of the pages.
A well written book, but ultimately frustrating due to two reasons:1) The constant changing of narrator - I often had to re-read passages to see the perspective from which the story was being told2) The psychological drama wasn't as great as I had expected it to be, this certainly wasn't in the league of Patricia HighsmithThe Sydney background of the late 1930's and 40's was well described, and the characters rounded, though to make it a great novel it needs more than this.A disappointing and frustrating read.
My 2 stars is for the story, not the author's technical skill, which is excellent.
What I both didn't like and liked for different reasons was the omniscient narrator who reported everyone's feelings and motivations, often switching so quickly that I found myself flipping back to find out whose head I was in (never good).
The upside is that the distance this form of narration creates meant I didn't become emotionally attached to either sister - a very good thing since their outwardly privileged lives were depressingly miserable.
The brilliant dialogue and characterization didn't stop this chunk of life story from becoming tedious.
narsist kişilik bozukluğu olan insanı -genellikle erkekler- dışarıdan anlamak çok zor, biliyor muydunuz? yapacağı tüm eziyetleri, psikolojikten fiziksel şiddete kadar... hane halkına yapıyor. dışarıdansa mükemmel koca, baba gibi gözükebiliyor. gözetleme kulesi bu konu hakkında -ki yazarı muhtemelen bu hastalığın bilimsel tanımını bilmezken- yazılmış çok iyi bir roman. bir değil iki hayat nasıl mahvolur?agos'a yazdığım yazıyı ekledim http://tembelveyazar.blogspot.com.tr/...
I rated this book 5 because of the beautiful way it is written.
Although I consider it a gloomy book throughout, the ending leaves the reader feeling there is hope for Clare, at least.
For Felix and Laura, there is none.This book, set in Sydney in a time gone by, took me back to a time when I too wandered the streets of Sydney from Central Railway to the Quai with great enjoyment.
It evoked strong memories of a city I love and once called home.I walked with Laura.
Not many books have the power to give me that lovely experience.I highly recommend this one.
I love a dark book. This one takes place in Sydney and is indeed dark. Having spent a year or so with Rob and Helen of The Archers, I am very familiar with the world of abusive, controlling husbands. This time we have the wife and her sister at his mercy. Psychological, claustrophobic novel. Sound good? It is!I heard about it from Stephen on the Slate Culture Gabfest (podcast) when they were in Melbourne and thus gave Australian themed endorsements.
It's a blessing that we're largely spared any "pillow talk" between Laura and Felix; one of the most revolting male characters I have encountered in literary fiction."You're too - stupid - to know he's sick in his guts of being in a a house full of women.
The torture is relentless, and you feel like reaching through the pages of the book and telling Laura to run, or taking her to a battered women's refuge yourself.
‘Now that your father’s gone - ‘Laura and Clare Vaizey are at boarding school when their father dies, and the lives they had anticipated for themselves (especially Laura) are changed forever.
Or will Clare have to abandon her in order to save herself?For me, two tragic themes are central to this novel.
Gone is the clever independent girl who dreamed of being a doctor, replaced by a fearful woman reflecting Felix’s views in order to find an uneasy peace in her world.
Written in a time when the term 'domestic violence' didn't exist, and when what happened behind the closed doors of suburban Australian homes stayed there, The Watch Tower is a compelling, fraught exploration of a man's psychological and physical abuse of his young wife and her sister.
Harrower's The Watch Tower is not an easy book to read.
The prose is crisp and haunting as it describes the domestic violence cycle as it repeats and intensifies through the narrative.The Watch Tower is the opposite of a holiday beach read, but it is a powerful novel with superb prose that brilliantly displays and dissects the true psychological horrors of domestic violence.
Hmmm .....like all reviewers on this site, pleased to finish it, and relieved Clare and Bernard escape the clutches of the horrible Felix.
The main three characters are in every scene, which conveys the tension and inescapable deliberateness of felix's oppression and misogeny.
He doesn't like Clare and Laura, but cannot be parted from them, and so subjects them to a life of psychological torture.
The beauty of Sydney itself, and more specifically, the fragrant sandstone Federation villa in Mosman, provide some relief to both Laura and Clare, and to the reader; but that, too, is threatened by Felix at times.
Sometimes fiction uncovers a common experience and tells a story about it before the vocabulary exists to describe what’s happening and link people going through it together.Laura and Clare are sisters who seem destined to be victims.
After marrying Laura, his alcoholism surfaces and he’s unstable, abusive and controlling.The Watch Tower shows the challenges of living with an addict, and the choices people make to remain victims.
Harrower does this, as Joan London says in the introduction, before we had the words “misogyny”, “abuse” and “co-dependence” to label these experiences.This book is set in Sydney, Australia in the 1940s at the outbreak of the Second World War, and was published in 1966.
Overhyped.
I was expecting this to be an almost traumatic read as I had hear how powerful it was and how mentally fatiguing it was to get through, because of the pure stress and tension created by the author.
This whole book could have been cut down to 50 pages and I don't think much would have been left out.
Of course I'm glad she got out of the situation in the end, but the way that it was done...
Well, I know that this book was written in a different time, but I would have been more more pleased and impressed if she could have managed it for some other reason, and some other way.
There is so much to say about this book and the way its author manages to put us in the situation of two sisters being psychologically terrorised by the husband of one of them.
It brought on, for me, a claustrophobia that made me feel, reading alone late at night, as if Felix could arrive in my life at any moment.
But even more than that, it produced in me feelings of hopelessness and inertia, absorbing them from the characters in a way that can only point to superb writing.It never occurred to me to question why they didn't just leave, because I know I would have done the same.
I only found out about this through ABC Tuesday Night Bookclub and was intrigued. The style is very literary and because of the time it's written, a bit laden, especially at the beginning. Once I got into this story though it gripped me. The prose sparkles with a hard glint of insight, the characterisation is terrifyingly real. I can only think Harrower must have known a man as abusive as Felix to have painted his behaviour so accurately. A brilliant book worthy of reading if only to study how it's done.
A brief summary of my thoughts on The Watch Tower: beautiful, sad, difficult, unsatisfying. I am terribly torn about whether I loved or hated this book. It is an example of some damn fine sadly neglected Australian prose, but reading it was empty and somewhat unrewarding, and it offered a world I only wanted to escape, not return to.
Very unsettling read, with memorable characters and intense relationships made truer by their complexity. Starts off a little slowly, but soon comes into full life and colour. Has similarities with Shirley Hazzard's 'Transit of Venus', and is of the same high quality.
Painful and disturbing, and not just because Felix reminded me of someone I know. In no way fun to read, but very accurately told. Read it if you want to be grateful for how much easier it has gotten for women to extricate themselves from abusive marriages, and to understand why it's still so hard.
A searing and truthful narrative of domestic violence and it's insidious power. I loved this book!
A good read.
3.5 stars really. But the last thing you need is two characters standing there explaining the plot.
