https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1294050.Rivers_to_the_Sea
What her poems lack in complexity, they make up for in genuine emotion. She may tiptoe up and down the line of sentimentality, but as far as I'm concerned, she does no more than let one toe across the line. Her best work is along the theme of lost love.

Sarah Teasdale ❤ my heart is hers, her poems mine.
Sarah Teasdale ❤️ my heart is hers, her poems mine.
I feel like such a sap when I read Teasdale.
This set comes with the poem that is rumored to be the one she wrote after her past love killed himself ("I Shall Not Care").
Her poems seem familiar, but I don't think I've read her before.
I think that is more a reflection of the simplicity and feeling of loss or sadness.I read this in a first edition, with brittle pages and that lovely old book smell.
I'm sure that added to my enjoyment, but I also think you will get more from them if you read a little about her first.
When one reads this poetry, one gets struck by the way in which society moulds a poet. Teasdale was the recipient of the Columbia University Poetry Society prize for her Love Songs in 1918 – why? This poetry has some beautiful moments, but I found some of it extremely 'stale' and almost hated the way everything was forced to rhyme.The prize I mention above, was the forerunner of what we know as the Pulitzer today: Would you award Teasdale that prize today?
sara is very unique poet, she had two weapons :love and death. her poem is description of regret and always wishing something else rather than what we have. there is lots of lovely poems but its not typical love, there is always something wrong, sad in her description. she is my favirote, there is strength and pain in her poems which is something i like.
I think I'm in love with Sara. My favorite poems were Immortal, Leaves, The Cloud and "I am not yours". Some of the more memorable lines include "Lost as a candle lit at noon, / Lost as a snow-flake in the sea." and "A leaf borne onward by the blast, / A wave that never finds the shore."
My second of the four I read in two days. This continued to leave my heart in my throat the entire time. Oh, love. Love, you are trapped in these pages, like a bird, ever caught, at and ever flying free.
These poems were one of the best I have read! Not only did they foreshadow greatest depths in meaning but also they made me flow with them on a rhythm of beautiful words and gorgeous tones! This poet is quite extraordinary in the way she made many things simple in an outstanding kind of way!
This is some of the most beautiful poetry I've ever read!
Love the last poem of the book, FROM THE SEA
Poetry.
As always, I love Sara Teasdale's poetry. She has some lovely imagery and I do love the way her poems are written.
