https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3529.The_World_s_First_Love
This is the first Sheen book I ever read. This is what made me fall in love with Fulton Sheen. Now I want to name one of my kids Fulton, but Peter won't go for it.
My favorite Marian book so far. Need something simple and down-to-earth, yet enlightining and theologically rich? Something to kindle, rekindle, or enrich your personal Marian devotion? Just want to know why Catholics love Mary so much, and why you should? If you will read only one book about Mary,choose this one!Great book for anyone, but I'd recommend this one especially for:*Those in RCIA, or interested in Catholicism*Teens and young adults, especially those preparing for Confirmation or other Sacraments*Anyone who feels uncomftorable or unsure when trying to answer questions about Mary/rosary/etc.
Easily the best Catholic teacher in American History, Archbishop Fulton Sheen outdid himself in this classic work about Catholic devotion to Mary, Mother of God. Many of you are familiar with Bishop Sheen as the outstanding teacher who held primetime TV audiences in fascination during his 1950s and 60s show "Life is Worth Living." But you may not be aware that Bishop Sheen as written a number of great books on Catholic teaching.
He explains how Mary was Jesus' first and most devoted disciple, and how through her commitment to God she restored to mankind the kind of love that God created us to live out.
In Part I: "The Woman the World Loves," Sheen has us walk with him through all the significant events of Mary's life, contemplating her reactions and the significance of them for all time and for each of us personally.
The second part, "The World the Woman Loves," tackles a variety of issues in the modern world in light of the example of the Virgin.
Virginity, equality, Islam, the Rosary, suffering, and the nuclear age, are all topics worked through splendidly in light of Mary.
A good plan is to take no more than a chapter a day (about 10-12 pages on average) with a pen and pad at your side.
It took me a little while to get into this book, but I found in Chapter 12 a section on the nature of men and women that was fascinating as well as insightful.
I would read this book just for this section, but there's more!This book wins just for these sentences: "Which stands up better in a crisis - man or woman?
When we come to this great drama of Calvary, there is one fact that stands out very clearly: men failed." LOL!!!I enjoyed reading the second half of the book more than the first half of the book and found many sections worth pondering in my own heart, the way Mary pondered these mysteries during her lifetime here on Earth.

“The World’s First Love” is a collection of Archbishop Fulton Sheen’s writings on the Blessed Virgin Mary.
His chapters deal with Love, that begins as a dream, the relationship of love and freedom , the origins of belief in the virgin birth, Mary as compared to all mothers, the marriage of Mary and Joseph, the role of the Marriage Feast at Cana in the advancement of Jesus’ ministry and on from there.“The World’s First Love” offers the reader guidance in the contemplation of the mystery of the Mother of God. Although it is old, it is definitely worth the time to read and meditate.
Sheen brings his mastery of language and devotion to Our Lady. It's a great book and a necessary one for Catholics who have a hard time understanding why Mary is so important (and really necessary) for the Catholic Faith.
All his writing is wonderful. Favourite chapter has to be on the Rosary. Lots of gems.
Bad Catholic that I am, I've always found it much easier to talk to Mary than to God. She seems so understanding and empathetic. Fulton Sheen in a mystical way reveals the beauty of Mary. He has so much passion for the faith. Highly recommended.
I've loved all of the episodes of Life Is Worth Living I've seen, so I expected more of the same awesomeness from this book.
I was not disappointed.
Archbishop Sheen shares a series of masterful reflections on the Blessed Virgin Mary and her role in Catholic theology and Catholic life and worldview.
He makes compelling arguments for the Virgin Birth being a secret until after the Resurrection and for St. Joseph's being a young man.
The level is pretty highly academic, but if you chew on it, you will find his insights profound and enlivening.Read my full review at Austin Catholic New Media.
Excellent work!
This book presents an inspiring spiritual portrait of Our Lady and how we, in modern times, should relate and turn to her.
Not difficult to read or comprehend.
I also love that Sheen doesn't mince words, and when he wants to make a point about something - be it bad or good - the reader unquestioningly knows what it is.
I found this particularly helpful as a modern woman as he points out many of society's misconceptions about the Church's view of women and how modern, anti-Christian feminism and things like contraception do more to harm women than help them.
Great read!
Fulton Sheen is an excellent writer. He has the ability to put beautifully into words mysteries that are naturally difficult to verbally pin down. His insights helped me to appreciate and understand more completely the significance of Our Blessed Mother.
This is one of the greatest works on Mary that exists. Fulton Sheen clearly brings to light many aspects of Our Lady and what it means to Christians. It is a good introduction to anyone who needs to know anything about Marian devotion.
Great first half, second half was interesting, but I skimmed it, good work
A great read...I think I want to pick it up a second time!
This book succeeds where others have failed!
Although it did not captivate me as well as Life of Christ, it was still a marvelous book about Our Lady and well written by Bishop Sheen. I am glad to own a copy to return to it again and again.
As always, Bishop Sheen takes my breath away with his eloquence.
A beautiful explanation and exposition of Marian belief and doctrine.
I love the works of Fulton Sheen, but this one is a little light on research and heavy on assumption and opinion. Not the best book by Sheen and not the best book on Mary, but still worth a read.
As only Archbishop Sheen could do, this book ran me through the gauntlet of emotions, all while keeping my mind busy with new thoughts on The Blessed Mother.
A great man's letter to the world about the Woman he loves. What a beautiful book! I have already recommended it to several people and look forward to reading it again.
Highly recommended by my priest to me a few months ago, Lent would have been a perfect time to read this one, but it continues to sit on my nightstand. He says it is great though.
I need to read this!
I love Fulton Sheen! I have now read this book twice. (The second time for book club).The second time around I finished it during Lent, and I read the chapter on the 7 Sorrows of Mary during Holy Week and it was amazing. I am sure I could read this again and again and get something new from it each time.
I loved Sheen's Theology for Beginners, but I did not enjoy this book as much. The writing is a bit dense, and it took me awhile to get through. I really loved Part One with its insights into Mary and her relation to God and Jesus, but it often dragged in Part Two with its discussion of Mary's significance to the modern world. Not sure I agree with all his critiques of communism.
A must read book for anyone struggling with the inexplicable attraction the Catholic Church has for her mother!Listen to the love described by one of Church's most eloquent Preacher and truly a son of Mary!
This is the first book I've read by Sheen, and I really liked it! It is very well written, it was lovely to read and a good source of inspiration to love God with your whole self. Only Mary, Virgin and Mother, can prepare our hearts for her Beloved Son.
One of my favourite books!! So much richness so much beauty and truth about the nature of man, woman, marriage, suffering, motherhood, sorrow, love. Mind-blowing. Thought-provoking. Poetic. A must-read!
