https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/138133.Complete_Poems_and_Selected_Letters
There should be a Marathon Keats Reading Competition to see who can read the most pages of the Complete Poems without losing their lunch.
I bet if Keats had been around in the 1970s he'd have been a Genesis fan - and then a Peter Gabriel fan!
I can imagine him earnestly glomming onto "Selling England By The Pound" or some such prog rock shite on his Keatsian headphones (ordinary headphones garlanded with anemones).
Yes, that's right, he would have been a lyricist for a prog band - like Yes or Marillion or Van Der Graaf Generator!
Tough luck, John, you missed a really modest career as a prog rock lyricist.
Keats.  John Keats.I've been a big Shelley fan, and in a different way, Byron... but never tackled Keats before. As a non-English major, I'm having to google a lot of the references (21st Century Keats), but god is it gorgeous. Okay, I'll cop to it, I saw Bright Star yesterday--came right home and took this barely-cracked book off my shelf and stuck my nose in it for the rest of the night. My mind's jaw dropped open in admiration.
John Keats..no review needed here. just love ♥
Portals to Poetry--In the introduction to this book, the poet Edward Hirsch writes, "John Keats's poems and letters were for me ...
the portals of poetry itself." I won't go that far (my portals were the poems of Lorca), but they were definitely portals to metered and rhymed poetry for me.
Reading a book on poetic rhythm and Gerard Manley Hopkin's stress verse alongside this really helped, too, as the former gave me a theoretical understanding of the meter (esp.
the notions of beats, inversions, and elisions) and the latter threw Keats's poetry into stark stylistic relief (you understand something from seeing differences).
There are so many of the shorter lyric poetry and sonnets that are so absolutely gorgeous it would just be too long to list all I loved in a review, but I'll try to list my five favorites in order they're found in the book--even though I know the choices are rather predictable.1) "On First Looking into Chapman's Homer" - because it expresses so well the wonder of discovery to be found in reading with its "realms of gold."2) "When I Have Fears" - because it's heartbreaking, especially knowing Keat's fate.3) "La Belle Dame sans Merci" - because it's a creepy, haunting horror story.4) "Ode on a Grecian Urn" - because well, it's brilliant.
"When I have fears that I may cease to be..."
Complete Poems and Selected Letters of John Keats takes the reader on the ride through mythology and Keats's time in the world.
Complete Poems and Selected Letters of John Keats sometimes veers into unfinished thoughts and unfinished works with an honesty that disarms even as it brings up one's defenses.
I found some of his unfinished work quite compelling as it was, even complete, and some of it...
Complete Poems and Selected Letters of John Keats is an intriguing look inside the work and the mind of John Keats that somehow feels like a complete work even with the inclusion of his unfinished works.
Time to re-read and re-assess
This book contains every single piece of poetry Keats ever wrote, from his charming early doodles ("Imitation of Spenser"), to his clumsy but often hugely clever stab at an epic, "Endymion", to the grotesque genius of "Isabella and the Pot of Basil", to the alarming, heartbreaking nakedness of "This hand, now warm and capable", written near his death of tuberculosis in his 20's.And that's not including the great ones.There are those odes, too.
Certainly a top-fiver.If you're pressed for time, check out some of his early delights ("On the Grasshopper and Cricket" and "Sleep and Poetry"), read his sonnets to Byron and to Homer, read "Lamia", his best epic, READ THE BLOODY BRILLIANT ODES, and read his letters on Negative Capability and Soul-Making.

But this collection includes a number of poems that didn't really work for me.
I will include a list here at a later date of my favorite poems that I discovered/rediscovered in the collection, but by and large, they were the shorter ones with less emphasis on mythological characters and Shakespearean heroes.
I also lowered my rating because the "selected letters" part of the book was quite short.
In light of Edward Hirsch's excellent introduction on Keats' life, I enjoyed getting a glimpse of the poet's relationships with his family, friends, and lover.
Is there a book solely collecting his letters?
Rating this feels weird-- it's Keats, his entire poetic corpus, take it or leave it.
I'm happy with the book, and while I have moods when I find some of Keats' work cheesy, overall I enjoy him and see no reason to mark this collection down.
Highlights for me: Ode on a Grecian Urn (a very pivotal text for ekphrasis in Western Lit), To Autumn (I'm a Fall kind of a guy), On seeing the Elgin Marbles, On first looking into Chapman's Homer (I know some of these are the "big" poems that everyone mentions, but I like them anyway), When I have fears that I may cease to be" (which is of course so poignant for us, knowing that he died so young).
The letters are nice too, but not nearly complete enough a collection to be satisfying.
I got this book for Valentine's Day and have taken a long time to read it, and to be honest, I didn't read the whole book--some of Keat's poems are really, really, long.
But what I did read was so beautiful that I think John Keats is UP THERE with Shakespeare as an artist.
When I graduated college, I thought I had graduated poetry, but now I know that I could spend my lifetime returning to Keats' poems and never grow tired of them.
You hear about Keats' life and you think his poetry is going to be all sex and death from tuberculosis at age 26. But then you read it and most of it is kind of... boring and difficult to follow. So you go back to Wikipedia and realise that he was trying 'to express extreme emotions with regard to nature' and that he got really shit reviews on practically everything he wrote except the three odes on Grecian pottery (pottery!) that you had to read in intro to English lit.
John Keats' poems sometimes felt realer than real. Sometimes this bothered me, like every little thing had to be pulsing with life, but a lot of times it's really nice.His letters are okay. As I vaguely recall his ultraawareness of his death colored everything he wrote. A good guy and I'm glad people still remember him.
I didn't read the entire book - only the poems mentioned in the letters. I bought this specific book for the letters which I have wanted to read for some time now.I just found out last week a movie is being made - bonus!
strikes a balance between sweet and sober - he died young, knew he would, and his poetry reflects that. still: he saw the world beautifully, and it's hard not to be affected when reading his poems.also, his love letters are delicious.
I would have given this edition 5 stars, because it is my humble opinion that John Keats is perhaps the greatest poet to have ever walked this earth; however, this edition had numerous spelling and punctuation errors.
Another valuable source of material for my novel in progress, Grandpa Art, as well as insight into The Stress of Her Regard by Tim Powers.
Stanzas......The feel of not to feel it,When there is none to heal itNor numbed sense to steel it,Was never said in rhyme.
One of my favorite poets. Aye, he left too soon.
Excellent book. Everything you could ever want from Keats.
Imagination, emotion and honesty combined. What enthralling stories were told, with dreamlike romanticism and linguistic precision.
Saw "Bright Star" yesterday and realized I haven't read any Keats since school...
Complete Poems and Selected Letters of John Keats (Modern Library Classics) by John Keats (2001)
A thing of beauty is a joy forever, like his poetry.
It's Keats. What else can I say?
Duh.
this is the book [that i read for school] that made me love poetry. i read it more and more on my own and got it for my birthday. keats is so cool.
I have an old Odyssey Pres volume with a dozen or so bits of paper stuck between the pages marking my favorite poems.
