https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/44399.Too_Busy_Not_to_Pray
Too Busy not to Pray (Slowing down to be with God)Bill HybelsInter-Varsity PressISBN: 0-85111-329-XI read this book as part of the preparation for the week of prayer at Christ Church.
Applying some of the suggestions in here improved my prayer life, but over a period of time things get stale, thats how I am (and how most people are , I think).
They may well make you think of some "What if I'd .." situations in your past.As a way to improve or perhaps establish your personal prayer life this is a useful read.
Yes, I've returned to God but this doesn't mean I now think anyone who doesn't, or, who practices a religion that does not involve the belief of Jesus Christ as their savior, is doomed.That's just not "my" God.
Too Busy Not to Pray was a 15-week study with my women's bible study group.
This study challenged us to slow down in our busy lives & take the time to pray.
We learned about God calling us into his presence, inviting us to talk with Him continuously, methods to use to break down the barriers that prevent us from praying to God, recognizing how God speaks to our hearts, and most importantly listening to & taking action when God prompts us.
If you are looking for encouraging words to improve your prayer life, Hybel offers practical ideas on slowing down to pray.
Or that God would put you to work for his glory?”This is an excerpt from this month’s book and it has really challenged me to re-address my prayer struture and indeed my prayer life.
I’ve come to realise that for a while my style of prayer may have been good and even right but without due care and attention the adopted style can translate into routine whereby the words become babbling since deep thought is not placed upon the words spoken, which is less of a communication and more of a recital…may God help us all as we take a deeper look into our prayer life as challeged to do so by Bill Hybel.
We bless the food to nourish our bodies, even if it is greasy and we chase it with a sugary drink.
What nourishment can really come from this type of food, yet we all say it.
Then the words to a song came to him and made him realize he had been stressing on all of his inadequacies, but knew that God was adequate to make it happen.
When he focused on God's adequacy instead of his inadequacy he was able to move forward and give a great talk.Be Still and know that I am God. We have to listen to hear God talking to us.
This book sat on my shelf for a long time because I thought I'd already read it.
12 - "God's power flows primarily to people who pray." p.
A 'prayer warrior' is a person who is convinced that God is omnipotent - that God has the power to do anything, to change anyone and to intervene in any circumstance."p.
84 - "How do you pray a prayer so filled with faith that it can move a mountain?
Decisions that change the entire course of your life come out of the holy of holies, your times of stillness before God."
I thoroughly enjoyed this book and reading it was timely for me as I have been trying to make my prayers more meaningful and to better my relationship with my Heavenly Father.
I like how he simply states that we just need a quiet room to pray and that is all.
I need to find times of stillness and solitude where I can pray and listen.
I found Hybels suggestions and insight very helpful and I envy the relationship that he has with God. I hope to create that for myself!
Easily read, very practical treatment of prayer, taking up the cause of the person who would like to or used to pray, with specifics on how to get going or resume.
After discussing potential roadblocks--like holding grudges or sins we haven't given up--the author offers very practical suggestions on praying.
Divide your journal page with 2 titles: "Yesterday"--an examination and recording of yesterday's highlights; and then today's "Prayer" using A.C.T.S. to focus your prayerful thoughts [Adoration/Confession/Thanksgiving/Supplications.
He suggests additional subcategories for the Supplications.:].Having journaled, leave yourself about equal time to stop and "Listen" to the Lord as He talks to you.
Good book on a very important topic-our conversations with your creator. This book, along with a class I was taking at the same time, got me to make it more then a one way conversation with me doing all the talking. I learned the importance of listening and what to listen for. I also have learned to journal my prayers so I can re-examine them at a later point to see how God has answered my prayers. I know I love to hear from my kids so it should go without saying that God loves to hear from us.
It was encouraging for me to know that at times in your life even though you may love God your prayer life can become stale or even the fire that once was so bright simmer.
Its amazing feeling to know that you are not alone.
Its even more encouraging to know that its not where you start its where you finish.
This book really encouraged me and showed me pragmatic ways to freshen up my prayer life, the pitfalls to look for and the importance and how-to for pushing past the feelings and into the presence of God.
This really put things in perspective regarding busyness and spirituality. It isn't just a book stating reasons why we're too busy not to pray and doesn't make you feel completely guilty for putting spirituality on the back burner. Instead, it provides practical tips on how you can keep God first in all areas of your life and pray more.
Excellent book. Clearly written for all "levels" of Christians with down-to-earth, practical advice I will be putting to use. Deeper thoughts mixed well with real-life stories made it a book easy to keep reading. Has Reflection & Discussion questions in the back that would make for a good Bible Study with a small group. Hope to re-read again.
Great introductory book on prayer--many books recommend too many things to implement. Bill Hybels gives a very readable, practical and inspiring way to pray daily that jump-started my prayer life when it was stalled. I wouldn't recommend someone to make this a formula for a lifetime of prayer, but it's a great structure to develop key habits and basic skills of prayer--which I use to this day.
I'm only half way through this book so far but it's really challenging my way of thinking about prayer (and how low on my priority list making time with God is). It's a very practical book with lots of tips, and has reminded me how important it is to pray!
I should have read this years ago and I think I'll need to read it again. Excellent discourse on the power of prayer, why and how someone should pray, and why your prayers may not be heard.
He is helpful with the widsom he has, and open about his own doubts and questions.
It's needed for a voice informing on categories of God's mysteries to be clear that we don't always understand things like prayer in a way that is systematized or categorical, and that there are always moments when we're at a loss that God either doesn't seem to hear or to care about what is for us a heartfelt need.This book lost some focus in the last chapters, but along the way it was informed by an honest journey by someone actually living out the practices preached here.
The book was good because I learnt that the only way I can make my prayer life effective is being a righteous person.
As James 5:16 Amplified Bible (AMP) states…”The heartfelt and persistent prayer of a righteous man (believer) can accomplish much [when put into action and made effective by God—it is dynamic and can have tremendous power].”When prayer is done right, it changes the person who prays as well.
Lastly, I have learnt that the only way I can be effective in full-time ministry is having time alone with God each day.
I enjoyed reading this book before my prayer times in the morning.
It’s a very easy read, and most of his chapters provide a good spark to prayer.
Rather, it is a modern evangelical book explaining prayer and why it is so important.
Some of his personal insight, and his emphasis on prayer's effectiveness to bring about communion with God, answers, and joy, were very helpful.I would hesitantly recommend it as an easy read on prayer (hesitantly because I think there's many other better books on it, if someone were to read a book), but nothing too special.
But because it fueled my prayer effectively, I’ll give it a 4.
If you read one Christian book or one book on prayer or one book so you don't have to read another friggin' Tube advert, read this.
I love how well structured it is, so you can easily refer back to it in a prayer crisis (yeah, that's a thing), and even as I zoomed through it I knew I would be reading it again.
Is there more to say on prayer?
This is the simplest, clearest explanation of God's love for all of us, His excitement at hearing our prayers, and the many gifts, blessings and answers we receive from Him through prayer.
Someone once said that people need to be reminded more often than they need to be instructed.
This is certainly the case when it comes to prayer.
But as our lives get busy, prayer is one of the first things that gets neglected in our overloaded schedules.
In this book, Bill Hybels reminds us to slow down and intentionally dedicate time each day to spend with God in prayer.
The value of this book is not in any revolutionary content, but in the simple reminders and practical suggestions that invite us to renew our commitment to be people of prayer.
Great book about prayer.
It's important to make time for God, and the way we can do that on a daily/regular basis is by taking time out of our busy lives for prayer.
Hybels had a lot of really great things to say in this book, and one of my favorites was the suggestion of keeping a prayer/spiritual journal.
He mentions that not many people in this day and age live a contemplative, examined life, and that keeping a prayer/spiritual journal forces you to slow down and look at what really happened during your day, and to look deeper to find out what God was doing and what it means.
I really enjoyed this author and how this book was written. I’ve struggled with prayer for too long, and this book has encouraged me to make prayer a focus and priority, set aside time to slow down and be more aware of the presence of God. I like the questions for each chapter in the back and will be using them to share with my husband as we are both wanting to grow in this area. I would recommend this book!
This book was ok. It’s got good truths and reminders about the need and the importance of prayer, but it’s filled with hokey Christian cliches and examples. It reads almost like a motivational self-help book. I can appreciate where the author is coming from and what he’s trying to impress on the reader, but it’s also fairly forgettable at the same time.
We used this for a multi-age Bible study group at our church. I found the book to be a wonderful guide for all ages and all varieties of prayer lives to come together and find common ground. I would highly recommend this book, whether you are working with couples or singles, old or young!
The book was powerful, encouraging me to develop a more regular and deep,prayer life. The last couple of chapters, though, really convicted me regarding the needs of the poor and what Jesus would have me do.
This book was thought inspiring, and did provide me with a few take aways. I do enjoy Bill's books though and always appreciate the slow down undertone which he reminds us to live in, especially in our busy world.
The author is quite straightforward. I'm in awe of the simplicity and yet intensity that he managed to put into those pages. When it come to getting started or back up on orayer this is the right book for that. It doesn't matter how Bible smart you might be, this book is life changing
A really good book that guides you on how to pray and how to have an intimate time with God, the acronym that you follow is really helpful. ACTS: Acknowledge the greatness of God, Confession, Thanksgiving and after all these Supplication.
Seems like I pick this book up from time to time when I need to refresh my prayer life. Every reading offers a new perspective (or maybe I just forget). I'm glad I keep a copy with my spiritual books.
I have just read this book for the second time. It contains lots of good advice and encouragement for those who want to make prayer an effective way of life.
