https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36739329-the-great-believers
Only giving this five stars because I'm married to the author's husband.
I'm between 3.5 and 4 stars, rounding up.At the start of  The Great Believers , Rebecca Makkai's beautifully poignant yet meandering new novel, it is 1985, and Yale Tishman and his partner, Charlie, are preparing for the memorial service for Nico, a friend who has recently died of AIDS.The gay community in Chicago where they live has been devastated by this recently discovered disease, as have gay communities across the country. The sense of loss they feel is just beginning to hit them, as they
But uncertainty about the artwork's authenticity and familial outrage at the potential value of a gift that could be given to strangers causes Yale and his colleagues more stress than anticipated, at a time when emotions are running high in his relationship with Charlie as well.With the disease circling ever closer, Yale finds his life changing in many ways, and he begins relying more and more on Fiona, his friend Nico's younger sister.
I can't imagine watching everyone you love die, and we see how this affects Fiona in her life a dual story line with the second in 2015 as Fiona searches for her own grown daughter.
In the Seventies, I hung in Old Town with a group of friends, two were gay, a couple, Jimmy and Max, they were wonderful, don't know what happened to them.
Northwestern and DePaul, places Yale works, DePaul a school my youngest daughter graduated from, know it well.In the present Richard and his photographic exhibit will bring the novel full circle, giving the many who had died, once again a voice.
The Great Believers 3.5 stars rounded up 1980s Chicago, the devastating AIDS epidemic seen through the eyes of a group of gay friends as they slowly lose so many in their circle of friends, reflects the time in a realistic way .
For that and the last part of the book I’ll round up to 4 stars.I read this with with Diane and Esil.
It’s a nice long read about a close-knit group of gay friends and their straight allies that jumps back and forth between the height of the AIDS crisis in Chicago and present day Paris.
Ordinarily, when I read books that go back and forth between two narrators I tend to have a favorite, but in this case I didn’t.
Some parts—like Yale’s almost aggressive naïveté or Claire’s tenuously grounded animosity towards her mom—troubled me from a craft perspective, but I somehow love it all the more for its flaws.
I loved the flaws here.
In the main plot, Yale Tishman struggles to cope with the illness and loss of his friends, and placate a jealous partner who fears Yale will leave him after the epidemic ends; all the while, Yale, the development director for an art gallery, tries to acquire several high-profile pieces from the great aunt of his best friend Fiona.
The great aunt, Nora, knew a wide array of famous artists of the 1910s, who died suddenly and brutally in WWI, and over the course of the novel, the tragic stories of the older generation are indirectly paralleled with those of Yale and his friends.
3.5 starsI really loved the themes running through The Great Believers, but I was a little less enthusiastic about the delivery.The story is told in two timelines.
The first timeline runs from the mid 1980s to the mid 1990s, and it is focused on a group of characters affected by the AIDS epidemic in Chicago.
The story is told from Yale’s perspective, who is seeing many of his friends getting sick and dying.
The second storyline focuses on Fiona, who is the sister of one of Yale’s friends, as she searches for her missing daughter in Paris.It was no until the end that I fully understood how the two storylines fit together both thematically and as stories.
Shortlisted for the National Book Award 2018A global crisis that has taken the lives of 35,4 million people, changing the face of the world forever - no, this is not a dystopia, Rebecca Makkai wrote the Great American Novel about the beginning of the AIDS epidemic (which is ongoing; here's the latest data: http://www.unaids.org/en/resources/fa...).
One consolation for the characters in the book is art and its ability to preserve, celebrate and commemorate - Nora makes the art work of dead artists visible, and the circle of friends from Chicago is immortalized by their surviving friend Richard, a photographer.
Character-driven, theme-driven, and generous of spirit, The Great Believers is a fully realized work of art.The novel threads two timelines—the 80s/90s AIDS epidemic era and 2015.
And in the era of AIDS, as Nora says, “I don’t know how you can compare it to anything else…I don’t know how it’s like anything other than war!” And Nora still hasn’t gotten over her great love, Ranko, an obscure artist who painted some of the pieces that she is about to offer.
Fiona’s inability to recover from Nico’s death left her heart torn, like Nora’s when Ranko died.
"But what a burden, to be Horatio. To be the one with the memory." Like many others of a certain age who are fans of musical theater, I went through a phase in my late teens and early twenties where I thought Rent was the most amazing piece of art ever created. A lot about the show hasn’t aged well—just pay your rent, guys—but it’s still a moving remembrance of a very particular time and place: New York during the AIDS epidemic of the 1980s One of my favorite lines in the show isn’t one that I
It got cut out of the movie adaptation (and I could write a long, long paper about why that was a bad move), but it’s when Roger, preparing to move to Santa Fe, angrily tells Mark, “You pretend to create and observe when you really detach from being alive.” Mark’s response to him sums up everything you need to know about his role in the story: “Perhaps that’s because I’m the one of us to survive.” It’s a brilliant, brutal, beautiful line, for so many reasons Having been too young and too far removed from the AIDS epidemic, it’s hard to imagine what it must have been like to watch huge portions of your community become sick and die of this disease with no treatment options and so much stigma.
Rebecca Makkai set the story, The Great Believers in her beloved hometown and takes us through overwhelmingly emotional times as we witness deep friendships, brotherly camaraderie, romantic and platonic love, unwavering support and devastating depression and loss.It is 1985 Chicago, and Yale Tishman, the Director of Development at the new art gallery at Northwestern University is working on an exciting and valuable acquisition.
Some people compare this book to A Little Life, and yes, both are gut wrenching and sad, but in The Great Believers there is a well researched overview of Chicago history and AIDs in the 1980s, a window into the art world, terrorism in 2015 Paris, so much love, friendship and family…a much warmer novel that combines the burden of memories with hope and positivity.
There’s an important story here (at least in the 1985 strand) as AIDS cuts through the Chicago gay community – but something about Makkai’s style left me feeling mostly disengaged from it in emotional terms.
But overall I was never able to get involved or attached to what is going on.Add to the style a baggy structure that flips between 1985 and 2015, and a whole other story that has little connection to the first one other than featuring the same character, and the book started to alienate me further.What is it about contemporary authors that they almost all seem to think that they need multiple narratives, times switches and excess baggage to create a novel?
A more careful, focused, intimate story of the AIDS crisis and its effects might have made this more palatable.
* 3.5 *I normally set to writing my impressions of a book directly after finishing it, unfortunately for The Great Believers I read it partly on holiday and now find myself struggling to get enthusiastic about writing this review.
From the NYT review  by Michael Cunningham : The Great Believers” is, as far as I know, among the first novels to chronicle the AIDS epidemic from its initial outbreak to the present — among the first, that is, to convey the terrors and tragedies of the epidemic’s early years as well as its course and its repercussions over the decades.
The Great Believers was a mixed bag for me, and I feel I should emphasise upfront that my 3-star rating is not an ‘all-over’ 3, but a result of ‘averaging out’ the excellent bits with the less successful aspects.The main storyline involves Yale Tishman, his boyfriend Charlie, their social circle, various hangers-on, and the wider gay community in Chicago at the height of the AIDS crisis in the 1980s.
“If you got it from sleeping with a thousand guys, then it’s a judgment on your promiscuity.
We get the day off to stay in bed and read big, brave and beautiful books. This is one of the year’s best and explores the realities and legacies of the AIDS epidemic through parallel narratives. It will make you fucking furious and it will instil deep faith in our shared humanity. It’s one of those great American novels that I love SO MUCH! My heart hurts and I feel profoundly altered. HOW CRAZY GOOD IS FICTION!?!? I honestly don’t know how people who don’t read get through this life.
Replacing the Fiona-as-irritating-adult sections with such material would not have been a loss.For those with an interest in further reading (or watching), here are the works of fiction, non-fiction, and theatre that have been most powerful in my experience:And The Band Played On: Politics, People, and the AIDS Epidemic.
The Great Believers is the kind of book you make time for, the kind you cancel plans and turn your phone off for. It's utterly believable, heartbreaking, and beautiful. In Makkai's hands, this generation devastated by AIDS are not victims, but fighters, resisters, and believers. I am thankful for this book.
Friends had perpetrations with each other making it hard to be with ‘the one who was infected with AIDS...while they were ‘the chosen’ with the one who wasn’t.I remember this period of my life too....So.....That’s what stood out for me in this novel!!!!
The HIV/AIDS community were frightened- suffering - fighting for their lives - dying off - one by one a battle that looked impossible to win.
I thought about a mini series called “When We Rise” about LBGT rights which also chronicles the history of the AIDS/HIV crisis with ‘very’ personal emotional stories - real lives - struggles & triumphs ...I connected deeper with that show much more than I did this book.
Genre: General FictionPublisher: Penguin Group VikingPub. Date: June 19, 2018 The Grim Reaper follows all in this novel. Think of Scrooge without a happy ending. The author, Rebecca Makkai, writes about the 1980s AIDS outbreak. The novel is set in the heart of Chicago in an area known as Boystown. There are two storylines, told in alternating chapters: one is in the 1980s and the other is in present time. The book opens in the past. We meet a close-knit group of friends, most of them gay men, at
We meet a close-knit group of friends, most of them gay men, attending a “celebration of life” party after the death of one of their own.
She disowns her parents and family the way they disowned her older brother.
They come from all walks of life, and the author makes sure you get to know each character as if you met them personally.
The author is so passionate on the subject of HIV/AIDS that it came as no surprise to learn that the disease has touched someone in her life.
My only issue in the novel is in the present when the focus is on the sister’s search for her daughter.
I didn't care for the characters and there were huge chunks that could have (and should have) been cut out.The Heart's Invisible Furies and The House of Impossible Beauties also look at this time period and do a much better job of it, in my opinion.
Each have more interesting characters, and the former especially has a far more engaging story.
The only character I was able to form any kind of connection with in this book was Yale, and even that took some time.It just dragged a lot, with many parts feeling superfluous.
The Paris chapters were particularly dull and they felt like a completely separate story - one I don't really feel needed to be told.
The story is told from two time frames: the height of the epidemic in Chicago mid-1980s and 30 years later in Paris.
In the first narrative, Yale, a Northwestern University museum fundraising director, is dealing with massive losses of friends to AIDS at the same time he is on the precipice of acquiring an art collection that will propel the reputation of his respected but small museum.
The circle closes in on the Paris excerpts, when we view how the legacy of AIDS has never really left us, despite advances.I loved this book, which is, ultimately, about the struggle to love and connect amidst the chaos of the height of the AIDS era and in modern times.
4.5, rounded up.I've read a lot of criticism that a 40 year old straight woman dares to write a book about the early years of the AIDS crisis, and the author acknowledges that others might claim inappropriate appropriation - but it is clear that not only has she done her homework, but her skill and imagination has covered any glaring gaps from not witnessing it first-hand.
This is a fictional book based on the AIDS epidemic in Chicago in the 80s/90s.
I won this off of a Good Reads give-a-way.
This is a beautiful and sorrowful book of love, family, and friendship.
We see this story through two narratives, one during the 80s/90s and one more current.
There is some criticism about the more current story line, but I enjoyed both.
I think that they fit well together in ways and we see things from different points of view.
I got through this book quickly and wanted to just keep reading and reading.
I laughed and I cried.
I LOVE this book. It's heartbreaking and propulsive - I could not put it down, and was turning pages so fast it felt like I was reading a thriller. I loved all the characters, and thought the author did a wonderful job of the time change (going back in time then current day).
The result is a chronicle of the beginnings of the epidemic when being HIV-positive was a death sentence to a decade later when drug protocols were more effective in treating the disease.Makkai brings this period to life with an assortment of wonderfully drawn characters.
Apparently, she modeled for many artists in Paris during the period before-and-after the Great War. Many of these artists died during the war and shortly afterwards resulting in an artistic ‘lost generation’.Through Yale, Makkai tracks the euphoria many of these gay men felt when they could be open about their sexual preference and later faced the horrible disease where society and even the medical community treated them as pariahs.Highly recommend.
Makkai reminds us of those especially mystifying and terrifying early days before AIDS was AIDS: "She might not have remembered Jonathan Bird, except that he was the very first to die.
Makkai memorializes the impact of AIDS in the microcosm of a close-knit group of young men and one younger woman.
The Great Believers has its flaws—the 2015 sections didn’t work for me as well as the 1980s sections—but it’s hugely impactful and affecting.4 stars for now, and I won't be surprised if I increase my rating after further consideration; increased to 4.5 stars on further reflection.
I read the first 50 pages for a potential BookBrowse review, skimmed up to p.
172 and also skimmed the last few chapters.
There’s a near-contemporary story line that’s not very compelling; while I enjoyed the 1980s strand, there are a lot of secondary characters we don’t get to know very well, plus the details of Yale’s art deal slow down the narrative.
I really wanted to appreciate the book because I loved Makkai’s two previous novels so much, but I’m not feeling the impetus to continue.Favorite line: “Do you think it’s possible that all the sickness and funerals and everything—they’ve made us feel less secure?”Potential readalikes / books you might read instead: A Little Life, How to Survive a Plague and The Italian Teacher.
I started out listening to this book on Audible. Then I got the hardback at the library because I wanted to see the words. Then I bought it on Kindle so I could see the words at night.I wanted to climb inside this gorgeous book and live in it. I did live in it. I'm still living in it.Incredible!
“They were walking every day through streets where there had been a holocaust, a mass murder of neglect and antipathy.” I remember vividly that bleak period in the early 1980s when a spectrum of bizarre but fatal conditions started afflicting gay men. The tabloids were in their element, describing the mystery illnesses as a 'Gay Plague' while rallying their readers to demand all homosexuals be deported somewhere remote, away from 'decent people'. As religious leaders proclaimed the outbreak was
Rebecca Makkai's new novel is set in Chicago, primarily in and around East Lakeview's Boystown neighbourhood, which was the first officially recognized gay village in the United States.We are taken back to 1985, when Yale Tishman, an art gallery development director is on the brink of acquiring a remarkable collection of 1920s paintings and letters for his institution.
is a tribute to those who nursed and lost loved ones during the early years; the people who suffered with and died from AIDS related illnesses while being treated as pariahs; and the few who who survived long enough to receive life-extending antiretrovirals.
Just fantastic. I was hooked from the first chapter and couldn't let go. I personally preferred the 80s storyline to the 2015 one, but the whole thing worked in the end. My final book of the 2018 NBA fiction longlist, I think it's got a solid chance of winning.
