https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6619080-polaris

And in the autumn of the year, when the winds from the north curse and whine, and the red-leaved trees of the swamp mutter things to one another in the small hours of the morning under the horned waning moon, I sit by the casement and watch that star.
Down from the heights reels the glittering Cassiopeia as the hours wear on, while Charles’ Wain lumbers up from behind the vapour-soaked swamp trees that sway in the night-wind.
I guess it is hard to buy curtains in a dream.Not a great story, but unusual in first, cramming an entire epic fantasy plot into a few pages, and second, having a star as the bad guy.
The story begins and ends with the Pole Star, Polaris winking at the narrator 'hideously like an insane watching eye which strives to convey some strange message, yet recalls nothing save that it once had a message to convey'.
Only the second time you read those last lines it seems more desperate.
Since he isn't much of a warrior, our narrator gets a simple assignment to warn his city if the attacking army comes from the direction he was sent to watch.
When he wakes up he is back in a place where he started his dream, only this time he is certain he is in a dream from which he can't get away.
Is this the real life? Or is this just fantasy? Caught in a landslide, no escape from reality. Open your eyes, look up to the sky and see...
A sneak peak into what would eventually become the dream cycle stories. This is the weakest story in the cycle in my opinion, but it serves as a wonderful introduction of what to expect in later entries as they recycle a lot of the same elements, just in a much better and horrific way.
Wow. What hauntingly beautiful imagery.
This story is very racist, but it's very good. I don't know how to process that. Five big ol' racist stars.
"Mientras escribo en mi culpable agonía, frenético por salvar a la ciudad cuyo peligro aumenta a cada instante, y lucho en vano por liberarme de esta pesadilla en la que parece que estoy en una casa de piedra y de ladrillos, al sur de un siniestro pantano y un cementerio en lo alto de una loma, la Estrella Polar, perversa y monstruosa, mora desde la negra bóveda y parpadea horriblemente como un ojo insensato que pugna por transmitir algún mensaje; aunque no recuerda nada, salvo que un día tuvo

Interesting take from Lovecraft on his 'heterodox' racial historiography as well as the classic question of the narrator's perception of reality.
Written in 1918 and first published in 1920, Polaris is the first story in Lovecraft's Dream Cycle.
In this short tale, the narrator describes the night sky seen from his bedroom window, paying particular attention to the Pole Star."Into the North Window of my chamber glows the Pole Star with uncanny light.
[...] winking hideously like an insane watching eye which strives to convey some strange message,"One night, after witnessing the Aurora, the narrator dreams of a city "on a strange plateau in a hollow between strange peaks." It's clear that Lovecraft enjoyed using the word "strange" in this story, a shadow of things to come in his future weird fiction.The narrator continues to visit the city in his dreams, revealing more of its appearance as well as its occupants.
A cosmic philosophical questioning of existence itself inspired by a dream. Only HPL can make a star a malevolent villain. I'll leave you with the following haunting poem uttered by the star to the narrator: "Slumber, watcher, till the spheres,Six and twenty thousand yearsHave revolv'd, and I returnTo the spot where now I burn.Other stars anon shall riseTo the axis of the skies;Stars that soothe and stars that blessWith a sweet forgetfulness:Only when my round is o'erShall the past disturb thy door."
As I'm reading through Lovecraft's short stories, this is the one that introduces some science fiction themes to his work. Lovecraft switches from horror from external sources to horror from within one's own mind. Without giving too much away, madness plays a central role in this short story and it ends with us asking the question..are we awake? Not what quite what I expected from what I've read so far from Lovecraft and quite enjoyable. Lovecraft's words can truly create worlds within one own mind and this story is no exception. Recommend.
Another short story, and another trip into a mysterious world and mindset.The story is anchored around the star of the title and it serves as a great touchstone for the strangeness that envelops the story.I'm still learning about Lovecraft's writing, but it's very evocative and I think these short stories are giving me a good grounding in his work.I look forward to seeing how some of these ideas are developed into a longer piece.
pure poetry
Some writers have a way into their fictions that they commonly use, and one of Lovecraft’s seems to be to write of sitting at his desk, writing of things in the sky, in the darkness, above him.
Fans of Edgar Allen Poe and the Yellow Wallpaper will enjoy this story. It makes you question what is the reality in this story.
This is one of the earliest novels by the author, and it contains some of the elements and themes that will be further developed in his later work.
The story begins with the narrator describing the night sky as observed over long sleepless nights from his window, in particular that of the Pole Star, Polaris, which he describes as winking hideously like an insane watching eye which strives to convey some strange message, yet recalls nothing save that it once had a message to convey.
Then he starts speaking about his dreams, and his life in the dream world.

A very early short story, this work of H.P. Lovecraft's recalls his obsession with ancient Others and forgotten civilizations. My GP friend Bill recommended it as being revelatory of Lovecraft's thinking about his own isolation and how that informed his later work. The story is interesting more for that reason than for itself.
This story is mainly about exposition as well as the protagonist's growing insanity as he slowly believes himself to be the member of another race existing in a time and realm outside our own. It's relatively slow-paced and isn't necessarily a fleshed out story, but it's still a peculiar and entertaining read.
Otro pequeño relato de H. P. Lovecraft muy interesante sobre los sueños, los astros, una ciudad y sus enemigos. En lo personal este relato me gustó mucho, se ve el misticismo con el que Lovecraft manifiesta su afición por los astros, los sueños y los misterios, un autor adelantado a su época. Lo recomiendo si les late Lovecraft y los relatos/libros de misterio.
Is perception of a realm beyond our own a man's madness, or reality? The place names (Olathoe, Sarkia, Noton, Kadiphonek, Zobna, Lomar, Daikos) are Lovecraft's own (i.e. not Carcosa), but the feel is very reminiscent of Chambers again, a foreign dreamland overtaking reality.(Moved 2015 review to the individual work Sept. 2017 to make room to review the collection under its own entry.)
One of my very favorite stories ever. Absolutely beautiful depiction of the tragic loss of a dream world and the dereliction of responsibility. Something I absolutely relate to based on similar dreams where I feel guilty for waking up. I think about the story very often
In this story, I get the idea that Lovecraft is in the early stages of moldy the kind of dream-like horror for which he is famous. However, this development is still in it's infancy and it shows. At times the story feels a bit disjointed and disconnected.
Vorágine onírica, Lovecraft se impone ahí donde la realidad tambalea y se transforma.
7/10
An intriguing conversation with pole star.
An interesting idea in which dreams become reality and reality becomes a dream.
Absolutely beautiful language, truly inspirational language and diction.
5 out of 5
