https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8676.Unlimited_Power
This is a good starter book for people seeking to improve themselves and their life situation.
Anthony Robbins is a wonderful motivator and the undisputed master of personal achievement.
Robbin's uses NLP as the foundation for his own success.
I have read all of Anthony Robbins' books and this book was foundational in getting me motivated to write a dream list 12 years ago.
In that time I have achieved all of my goals except for traveling around the world.
Fortunately, I still have plenty of time left for that.
As a result, I would highly recommend this book.
Great book! I've been a fan of Tony for years. This is one of those timeless books that never fails to inspire!
He's no scholar, has no college degree, and learned his methods (NLP from which his motivational technique "neuroassociative conditioning" came) as a self-taught mentee.
He is one of those guys who rose to the top because of character, failure / success (which is a great motivator in itself), enthusiasm, and, of course, power.
He doesn't even mention how many who listen actually learn the methods / techniques therein and apply them on a consistent, ongoing basis.
Nevertheless, if you are able to apply what Robbins' preaches, you will improve, for his methods are sound and applicable to the lives of most.
This book is excellent...
The first 400 pages are tips and concepts he covers in more detail in his seminars.
But the last 20 pages of this book are so heartfelt and so moving...
you have to read the book.
I can't say enough good things about a man I barely know.
My father is the greatest man that ever lived to me and everyday, I strive to become someone like him.
The only other person that has made a material difference on the way I live my life is Tony Robbins.
love, living with purpose, money, health...
Its the best money I have ever spent.
At least to a certain level, it sounds like hypnosis.Now, the part that really put me into an incredibly angry and negative state (in Anthony Robbins' terminology): the chapter in which the book deals with nutrition.
I don't have solid data of people affected with anorexia and their quality of life, but I'm sure that's not how I want to live.If you look to nature and you see the biggest and most powerful animals you'll discover they're herbivores.
"إذا أردت أن تقرأ كتاب واحد هذا العام ليُساعدك على أن تكون أفضل اقرأ هذا الكتاب"استمريت في قراءة هذا الكتاب لما يُقارب الشهر.. لأنني قرأته كما لم أقرأ أي كتاب آخر من قبل بتمعّن وتركيز وذلك بسبب ما سمعت وقرأت عنه وأيضًا لمحتواه الدسم جدًا .. كتاب ممتاز للكاتب والمدرب الغني عن التعريف أنتوني روبنز .. يتحدّث فيه بأسلوب محفّز وشيّق عن التغيير وتحقيق الأهداف من خلال 21 فصل في 3 أقسام رئيسية .. الكتاب ذو محتوى مفيد جدًا وقيّم أنصح بقراءته فقط لمن سيُنفّذ ما جاء فيه من حيَل وتدريبات وأساليب.
) إن من حققوا التميز والتفوق يتبعون " طريق الإصرار" على تحقيق النجاح لذا فإن الوصفة المثلى للنجاح هى:- 1- تحديد ما تريد على وجه الدقه ،وتنمية إحساسك بما يتحقق 2- الفعل أو العمل الذى لولاه لبقيت أمنياتك مجرد أضغاث أحلام.
4- أكتساب مرونة فى تغيير سلوكك من أجل الحصول على ما تريد .
( الصفات الرئيسية التى يتم غرسها فى النفس من أجل النجاح:- 1- الشغف الذى قد يصل إلى حد الهوس.
5- محاكاة نماذج التفوق الشخصى ، والمحاكاة هى: أكتشاف ما يقوم به الناس على وجه الدقة لتحقيق نتيجة معينة وكــيـف تمكن هذا الشخص من تحقيق النتائج؟!
This is an unpretentious guide into the power of the mind and how anyone can tap into this power to overcome challenges and achieve success.
The insights extrapolated here are aimed at elevating your quality of life in all areas including finances, health, career, leadership and relationship.Admittedly, the book is quite long for a self-help guide but it offers some exciting and inspirational strategies for success in an increasingly competitive and seemingly overwhelming world.
It will not work if you simply read and do nothing about it.This read is recommended to anyone who is serious about understanding the concept of mind over matter and how to tap into it.
ثلاث نجمات تقديراً للوقت الذي بذله الكاتب في هذا الكتاب ، وان كان محتواه "بالنسبة لي " ضعيف او بالاحرى محتوى لا يجذبني او يحصل على اهتمامي بمعنى ادق لم اعتد على قراءه كتب تنميه الذات ، بالاضافه انني اجدها ممله ولا فائده منها رغم انها تساعد الكثير الا انها لا تفيدني ...
وبرغم ان الكتاب احتوى على الكثير من التكرار والمماطله في بعض النقاط والتوضيح الذي لا داع له الا انه لا يمكنني ان انكر ان هناك نقاط جوهريه رائعه جداً نادراً ما يلتفت اليها الباحثين في هذا المجال لا يمكنني القول ان تجربتي مع هذا الكتاب كانت سيئه ...
رحلتي مع توني روبنز بدأت مع كتابه الأول "أيقظ قواك الخفية" والذي اثار اعجابي بشدة، فكان لزاماً أن اتابع الرحلة بقراءة "قدرات غير محدودة" لتكتمل عندي رؤية الكاتب وأفكاره، خصوصاً وأنه نوّه في كتابه الأول في عدة مواضع على ضرورة (أو استحباب) قراءة كتابه الأول هذا.
بشكلٍ عام، وكما ذكرتُ في الجزء الأخير من مراجعتي لـ "أيقظ قواك الخفية"، فإن محتوى الكتابين يكاد يكون متطابقاً بشكل ملحوظ: الفكرة الرئيسية هي ذاتها، التفاصيل والخطوات التي تضمنها الكتابين تكاد تكون متاطابقة سوى اختلاف الأسلوب والمصطلحات نوعاً ما، كما أن التمارين المضمنة في كلا الكتابين تؤدي نفس الغرض تماماً سوى أنها عرضت بشكل أكثر تفصيلاً واسهاباً في شرح النتائج.
READING TIME: 90 minutesMESSAGE: Tony describes it as "the textbook for human development." Get out of the reactive mentality, model the most successful people and create the life of your choosing.IDEAS:Sources of our beliefs: environment, knowledge, events, past results, conscious creation in our minds.Success mechanisms: passion, belief, strategy, clarity of values, energy, bonding and, most importantly, mastery of communication.Empowering beliefs from the most successful people:1.
Whenever I'm meeting new people in business and parties I will do the following things to create a better sense of rapport: say their name quite often, match their body language (posture, position), match their voice (volume, tempo, tone, tembre).
The principles and exercises described here are some of the key things in human communication, success and managing oneself.
What els is there to say about Tony Robbins....This book is good for NOT for everyone.
The concepts of NLP aren't easily received for people new to self-help books.
Unlimited power will do exactly what it says, give you the power to make the changes you want in life using NLP.
If you're new to self-help books, you may want to start with something different like Notes from a Friend by Tony Robbins.But don't let being new stop you.
With dedication and consistent action you can pick this book up and have everything you need to make instant changes in your life assuming you follow through.
Disappointingly short but an amazing listen. This audiobook highlights many of Anthony Robbins points from his book Unlimited Power. Very few speakers can beat Tony's enthusiasm and larger than life charisma.Highly recommend it - downloaded from itunes for $10 and have it installed on my ipod for listening again and again! Well worth $10!Thank you Tony for how much you have helped to inspire several generations of readers and listeners to think outside the box and not to simply not accept mediocrity in their lives.
Ughhh I hated the first half of the book! I read this book because it was given to me by my uncle & he really wanted me to read it. I felt like he repeats things a little too much & that the book could have been shorter. The second half is pretty exciting! Stuff that you can apply. I love that he made sure to explain that the stuff he's talking about makes sense. If you're into NLP, you'll probably enjoy this.
الكتاب يفتح نفسك من اول ما تقراه ، كتاب تحفيزي راااائع ، فعلا بيخلي عقلك يعرف ان مفيش حاجة صعبة عليه لو هو عاوز :)
این کتاب رو من در دوران خدمت سربازی مطاله می کردم.نکات ارزنده ای داشت که در زمان های مختلف و سخت و یا حتی طاقت فرسای آن موقع،بسیار کاربرد داشت
I generally don't like self help and think it to be mostly fluff when it needs to be substance.I was wrong.Sure, there are stories in here you can skim over when you are tired and still get the gist of the book.
But much of the value of this book and the good self help out there is to put into words and reinforce things you already kind of knew, but needed to have said to you.
I picked up this book during a particularly tumultuous month in my life and am glad I did so.
I would recommend picking this book up.
A great reference book for those wanting to understand the power of the mind. There are a lot of NLP books out there, but Tony writes in a very motivational and uplifiting way. I still use this as a reference book in everyday life to go back and revisit some of the techniques. One of the top books in the field of personal achievement.
-They can because they think they can.-Don't find fault,find remedy.-Nothing has any power over me other than that which I give it through my conscious thoughts.-There is nothing either good or bad, but thinkung makes it so.
كتاب شامل لكل مواضيع البرمجة اللغوية العصبية و استعمل الكاتب في عرض المواضيع اسلوبا متسلسلا مترابطا وشيقا و يعتبر ذلك ابداعا في صياغة محتوى دورات و تحويلها إلى كتاب مقروء
I didn't finish it but it was good so far. I read half of it.
Por una parte, cómo nos hablamos a nosotros mismos, lo que podríamos llamar la comunicación interna.
El autor también lleva la PNL al campo de la psicología clínica y explica que trastornos como la depresión, definida como un estado físico y mental creado por el propio sujeto, puede superarse cambiando las emociones y el comportamiento.
Considero que la mayor aportación del libro consiste en entender cómo creamos nuestros estados y nuestros comportamientos, entendiendo que dos son los factores que contribuyen (las representaciones internas que nos creamos y la fisiologías que generan).
The skill/ability to specifically define exactly what others want and then fill other's needs quickly and elegantly.)~Keys to duplicate success of someone else, model their:BeliefsMental syntax (In what order/sequence they use their five senses)Physiology (Facial expressions, body postures, breathing patterns, etc.)~Disciplines of success:I always act from personal power --» I realise that there are no failures, there are only results/outcomes.
Life changing book...!!! My All time fav author.
I am strongly interested in psychology and self help books, this cut the "fluff" and got straight to the bits you need to know.
Thank you I've learnt:* the ultimate success formulaKnow your outcome, take action, develop the sensory acuity to know wha you're getting and change your behaviour until you get what you want.
You can greatly decrease the time it takes to master something by modelling the internal actions (mental) and external actions (physical) of people who produce outstanding results.
You have learnt everything in this book to become a master communicator.
* Positive beliefs can make you a master.
As a leader of self-actualization seminars, Robbins trumpets the power of reframing your thoughts to recreate your reality.
"Achievers tend to believe that no matter what happens, whether it's good or bad, they created it," he says.
75) He is clear that new thoughts need to be followed up with action.
For example, he says that right-handed people and some left-handed people look up and left when asked to remember something visual that actually happened.
They look up and right when asked to use their imagination to construct an image.
He says beliefs are formed through environment, events, knowledge, past results, and visualizing the future here and now.
این کتاب را باید چندین بار خواند
This is the abridged audio version, a mix of studio and live recordings.
He looks at various things such as our belief system, discusses Neuro-Linguistic Programming (NLP, how language effects our nervous system) modeling other successful people's traits, such as energy, passion, belief, clarity of values, and mastering communication.
I figure this is the low-cost, entry-level condensed version for busy people, to expose more people to Tony's message and help draw people to the "full meal deal experience." I'm impressed and looking forward to much more, so I'll be reading the full book and getting more audio products.
Unlimited Power shows you ways which you can do so, primarily through his tactics of NLP.
It may seem like a very foreign concept, but even for an A Level graduate with average results like me, the tactics mentioned are simple and easy to digest.
Not just limited to motivating one self, Unlimited Power teaches you to cure phobias, acheive a prolonged period of resourcefulness and energy, create rapport with others etc.Personally, i was a little skeptical at first when starting out, but with nothing to lose with my free time in camp, i borrowed the book from my friend and i must say, it was one of the best decisions in my life.
I lack the vocabulary to explain the power of Tony and this book.You can read it once and be motivated.
Succeed and get what you really want to get.
And program yourself into anything you want.
Anything!But this has a price.
And that price is Time, and Effort - Brain Effort.
It's want most people lack and the most useful thing you should do, because you have SO MUCH to gain with it.
Take notes, apply the concepts and you'll reach your goals faster than you thought possible.PS: You really need to take your time reading and using this book.
