https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/71730.Nonviolent_Communication
But Rosenberg's book does that, and I think its draw is giving people incredibly simple and powerful tools to deal with deeply-felt, deeply-rooted cultural and social problems.The emphasis on the importance of changing the ways in which language and thinking are connected for us, in order to restore political power to individuals and communities, is what really sold me on the styles of communication Rosenberg lays out (that is, nonviolent communication, or NVC for short).
I went into the book thinking it would mostly be good for improving some personal relationships and also in organizational work, but I think the potential for NVC is much greater.In short, I definitely concur with all the previous recommenders of Rosenberg's work.
Using great examples from his own workshops and personal experiences, Rosenberg presents each step in a thoughtful and straightforward way with exercises at the end of each chapter to test your understanding of the subject matter.The book then goes on to explain how to receive communication in an empathic way, which is based on those same principals, but now, your honestly trying to get to the bottom of the other person's needs to find out how you might be able to help fulfill them.
I've read this book before, years ago and was enormously impressed with the ideas in it. However, I found it difficult to put the ideas into practice. Am now currently taking a course in Rosenberg's Nonviolent Communication theory and have renewed hope about my ability to put the ideas into practice. I figure if I can learn to communicate with compassion it will be the first step towards being a wise person! :) A warning about this book: If you'd rather remain blissfully ignorant of your own emotional baggage and related personal issues then don't open this book!
As literature there were lengthy quotes of poetry (of a certain 70s style) that strengthened the impression that this was a somewhat New Age self-help book rather than a book on a proven method of communicating.
I think that using the method as described requires the speaker to frame their speech and compromise their words according to their best guess of what the listener will understand, and rests on a lot of assumptions about what s objective to both parties.
In other words, I think NVC is flawed from the ground up, it's base premises, never tried by science, are cracked, not that I think that means anyone who likes it should quit it.
In some of the circles I move, this book (or rather NVC in general) frequently gets a bad rap for being focused on communication and how sometimes it feels manipulative and stilted for those on the receiving end of someone practicing it.
About 2/3rds of the content of the book is dedicated to the how's of the communication, so I think its easy to see why folks feel this way and to then dismiss it as a specialized form of talking.
But focusing on the remaining 1/3rd of the book (which is spread out among the other how points), that addresses the why's, it becomes apparent why this is such a hugely significant work.
I listened to (i.e., did not read) this book in the car.
Without any doubt, the concepts contained in it should be taught to the young in this country.
And all over the world.I'm not sure this was the best presentation of it, and the book is dated.
Here, Rosenberg claims to have discussions where he (or, worse, the other person), says things like, "So I asked him, it seems to me that you are expressing some discomfort..." Well, Marshall, you never said that.
Again, the concepts are spot-on, the delivery lacks.
Essential reading even if I am like 2 decades too late to reading this. I've already started using it and though I probably sound like a moron, I'm confident I'll get better at talking through my needs. Everyone just wants to be loved and we just keep asking for it the wrong way.
It's such an excellent guide to communicating, that I wish I had been taught this stuff in Kindergarten, and again in middle school and high school.
The book emphasizes personal responsibility.
It gives you permission to experience the full spectrum of human emotions, not just the "good" ones like happiness.
It integrates human rationality and emotionality more thoroughly than any text I've ever read, by showing how our emotions are RATIONAL responses to observations of met or unmet needs.
The only problem with this book is, it makes you wish every human being alive had read it!

Reinforcing the legitimacy, to say nothing of the primacy, of such desires can go quite a way toward reifying them in the minds of their holders, and thence to create an increased sense of entitlement.
All that said, I still find the techniques described to be extremely useful, especially in such cases as "arguing about the toothpaste" when there is clearly a deeper and more important issue underlying a given conflict.
What flaws there are, in many instances, are more the flaws of novice to intermediate practitioners of NVC rather than of the author himself, as is shown in many of the included examples.
Life-changing. Everyone should read this. Rosenberg has well over three decades of experience and stories, and delivers it well.My key takeaways:* Using "I feel" for everything is a good start but doesn't go far enough. Still need to connect to self needs and specific actions of others.* Use needs to find common human ground, especially when you disagree strongly with someone.* Not everything needs to be "fixed". People want to be heard / listened to / empathised with.
Kitabı yarım bırakıyorum çünkü "Şiddetsiz İletişime Giriş" eğitimi almış birine katabileceği bir şey varmış gibi durmuyor. Bahsettiği şeyler ilgimi gerçekten çekiyor ve dikkate değer buluyorum, fakat gördüğüm kadarıyla hepsini zaten giriş eğitiminde öğrettiler. Öyle olunca da çoktan öğrendiğim şeyleri tekrarlamak sadece zaman kaybı olacak gibi düşünüyorum. Güzel konu, güzel yöntem. Sadece kitabı okumaya ihtiyacım olmadığına karar verdim.
Nonviolent Communication (NVC) by Marshal RosenbergI have just finished this book and I can see how it has positively influenced my day to day life once I started reading it.
In a tense communicative situation with an individual, NVC suggests that I understand my own feelings, and/or the other individual’s feeling, in a non-blame manner.
The book also covers many detailed practical scenarios of the NVC teachings besides the explained concepts.
Finally, I recommend this book to whoever wants to be exposed to a strategy on how to non-violently communicate with people, to married couples, school teachers and parents.
ارتباط بدون خشونت زبان زندگی رو از بهترین نسخه هایی می دونم که توسط برنامه حال خوب معرفی شد.
انهایی که توسط این برنامه معرفی می شه کتاب به معنای واقعی هستند.علاوه بر اموزش کنترل خشونت و اینکه ما در خشونت چه نیازهایی داریم انواع نمونه ها رو با مثال هایی که همه ما در زندگی مان داریم ارائه می ده.
مخصوصا وقت هایی که انسان در تنگناهای عاطفی قرار می گیره و با خشونت باعث می شه طرف مقابل هر رفتار نادرستی که داشته رو منطقی جلوه بده و به خودش حق طرد کردن شما رو بده.
It is is a good attempt at a listening tool to both interpret what others are telling you and in restating things back to someone so they know you understand them and can be worked into the BATHE technique of addressing problems.2.
No matter how perfectly you fit it into the NVC formula of observation, feeling, needs being met/unmet, request, it is going to sound judgemental to a sensitive or hostile recipient.
However in avoiding these aspects of a problem, NVC results in a manipulative moral and emotional blackmail that says, "If you care about my feelings, you will process my request".
I applaud Rosenberg's intention to bring peace and reconciliation through better communication.
Rosenberg offers many potentially helpful insights in this book.
Rosenberg's central premise seems to be that communication's primary purpose is to express needs.
In any conversation, we are to listen for others' feelings and needs and be prepared to express our own.
Being in touch with our feelings and needs will help us be authentic.
Yet this self-interested approach requires that others be treated as ends, and not as means to an end.
I heard Marshall Rosenberg speak with Terry Gross last year and was captivated. I am still wrapping my head around the practice-- very difficult to break old habits-- but the few times over the last two days I've tried this, honest, constructive information burst out immediately. I will try to integrate these methods into the classes I am currently teaching-- this is communication gold.
جز کتاب هایی هست که خوبه خونده بشه ... رو شها و تمرین هایی در آن وجود داره که آدم رو به مشاهده درست رفتار و احساس خود متوجه میکنه که گاهی اوقات باعث سوء برداشت های اشتباه میشه و با پیدا کردن یک روش آگاهانه سعی به برطرف کردن آن می کنه..
I read this book in conjunction with a class I took on the subject.Wouldn't it be nice if I could continue to practice what it preaches?
If you want to learn to experience more connection of compassion, warmth, love, and understanding - read this book. This book is a great companion volume to any serious meditation or contemplative prayer practice. It will teach you how to spot the differences between evaluations and observations, feelings and thoughts, needs and strategies, and requests and demands - most of which people confuse unconsciously due to very old habit patterns of the mind. This book is for those who want to change the world by being peace. Enough said.
For me, life-changing.
Expressing Anger Fully– Hurting people is too superficial.– Distinguishing Stimulus From Cause– – We are never angry because of what others say or do.– – To motivate by guilt, mix up stimulus and cause.– – The cause of anger lies in our thinking—in thoughts of blame and judgment.– All Anger Has a Life-Serving Core– – When we judge others, we contribute to violence.– – Use anger as a wake-up call.– – Anger co-opts our energy by diverting it toward punitive actions.– Stimulus versus Cause: Practical Implications– – When we become aware of our needs, anger gives way to life-serving feelings.– – Violence comes from the belief that other people cause our pain and therefore deserve punishment.– – We recall four options when hearing a difficult message: 1.
And needed.
A very healthy, down to earth way of communicating, resolving conflicts, learning about ourselves and others, and living according to our needs and healthy values.
I've heard about NVC before, but never got reading it, until a recent family quarrel...
Should have got the book a bit earlier, ha ha.
I thought I was so open-minded and matur, but read my jackal comments at times almostfrom letter to letter.
If you have a method that has been tested in countries such as Rwanda, you've got some proof that it works.
Just reading this book made me so much aware.
(if you think 3 here sounds particularly clunky, then I agree entirely, yet those are the authors words) But the example the author choose *does* describe the action that "contributed to our well-being" (offering us a ride home last evening), and sure, it doesn't make explicit what needs that fulfills, but we're human beings, we have a shared context, and even if we're not explicitly spelling everything out all the time, calling that "violent" and "life-alienating" seems like a huge stretch.
But I started to read the book, and this book is so far the most helpful thing for me to understand my own and other people's feelings and behavior, and to get out of bad feelings.
I learned a lot about why things went wrong, but never quite made sense of why things sometimes "went right".A couple of years later I was introduced to Marshall Rosenberg's "Nonviolent Communication".
I didn't need anybody to tell me that I'd done the right thing, or the wrong thing.
How rarely I provided this sort of empathy for others shocked me.Reading this book, and watching his workshop videos, was a profound experience for me.
I can't recommend this book enough to anybody who is struggling with a relationship and wants to learn to use their language more effectively.
The ironic thing is that once we get in the moment, our presence and attention is often all that is needed to de-escalate the conflict.Rosenberg provides many entertaining and inspiring anecdotes to demonstrate the many ways one can use Non-Violent Communication.
Learning to facilitate that connection can decrease violence, increase compassion, and help people grow into more compassionate and community oriented lives.I found this book inspiring and educational.
By modeling effective and compassionate communication, we can create more peace in our own lives, and help to create a less violent future for us all.I would recommend this book to anyone who is interested in connecting more deeply with the people in their lives.
A great system for thoughtful engagement with conflict and also self-reflection, but falls into the self-help trap where everything is just a matter of a certain kind of positive thinking in a vacuum with no power dynamics/oppression-privilege insight (weirdly uses an example of someone being "racist" against a white person??). Also some questionable psychotheraputic recommendations, about sharing personal feelings during sessions and not diagnosing because diagnosing is a form of judgement. Some really great stuff to take with a hunk of salt.
Reading this book I felt so grateful, because I've finally found the way t0 fix my communication with everyone starting from my family.
انتهى!هذا الدرس الجميل من اللغة والمشاعر والأفكار والآخرأعلم أنه سيكون حتما من الكتب التي سأعيد قراءتها مرة أخرى في حياتيأعتقد أن هذا الكتاب من النوع الذي يجب أن يدرس لأن له نتائج مذهلة بدأت ألمسها في حياتيفي الواقع يشتمل هذا الكتاب على جوانب اجتماعية متعددة فلا يقتصر على العمل أو العائلة أو غيره.. بينما يطرح مواقف شديدة التنوع ومختلفة الظروف بحيث يجد القارئ نفسه في أمثلة من أمثلته.شكرا للأستاذ والمدرب والمعلم الذي أرشدني إلى قراءتهوأعد نفسي بأن أعمل على تحسين لغتي وتواصلي :)
