https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/300782.Warum_Krieg_
Thus, in the enquiry now proposed, I can do little more than seek to clarify the question at issue and, clearing the ground of the more obvious solutions, enable you to bring the light of your far-reaching knowledge of man's instinctive life to bear upon the problem......As one immune from nationalist bias, I personally see a simple way of dealing with the superficial (i.e. administrative) aspect of the problem: the setting up, by international consent, of a legislative and judicial body to settle every conflict arising between nations.
Or how two great men apprehend the Second World War. Essential!
Why War? Open Letters Between Einstein and Freudin: http://www.haaretz.com/life/books/.pr...
La historia del siglo XX no le ha dado mucha razón a ninguno de los dos.
No sólo los fascismos históricos y contemporáneos tienen una pata libidinal y cultural muy fuerte, también las sociedades en guerra permanente no dejan de producir cultura.
Encuentro que la postura de Freud es intelectualmente más valiosa: sospecha de todo, tiene más presente la historia y la contradicción,...
no tiene el 'prejuicio' idealista de Einstein.(...) there is no likehood of our being able to suppress humanity's aggressive tendencies.(...) The Bolshevists, too, aspire to do away with human aggresiveness by ensuring the satisfaction of material needs and enforcing equality between man and man.
A fascinating pamphlett with insightful and increasingly pertinent to the present day reflections, from two of the most iconic figures of modern culture.The year is 1932, Hitler has almost risen to power and, while in deep water, Einstein and Freud share their anguished, competent, yet feeble attempts towards a wisdom they (admittedly) can't grasp, on one of the most pressing issues of their day.
War.Einstein, convinced that besides man's social drives for connection and unity he also "has within him a lust for hatred and destructiveness", asks Freud if it is possible to languor this drive by means of mental development.


Eminently readable, devoid of needless jargon, and extremely short. Here we find, perhaps, Freud’s clearest exposition of the Eros-Thanatos duality, his ‘account’ of the origin and nature of (political) power, his hypothetical ‘state of nature’, and, first and foremost, his views on history and progress. Freud’s rather simplistic take on history and his reductionist approach to power (it’s all violence sanctioned by either a handful of strong individuals or the vast majority of the community) makes me wonder how the Frankfurt School went about reconciling his views with that of Marx.
Warum gibt es Kriege und wie kann man diese verhindern - in einem Briefwechsel zwischen Einstein und Freud aus psycho- und logischer Sicht diskutiert. Interessant: der sehr pessimistische Essay von Asimov, im dem man bereits seine Gedanken erkennt, mit denen er später (in "Die Stahlhöhlen", Foundation 2) Solaria und dessen Gesellschaftssystem konstruiert.
O Humanismo realista de Einstein x Pessimismo de Freud.
و خدمت دکتر زیگموند بزرگوار: ممنون -جدا- که ما رو قانع کردی که با سائق پرخاشگری تا ابد جنگ وجود داره و ازش گریزی نیست.حس آدم بعد از اتمام کتاب اینه که عه واقعا تموم شد؟ ینی تا آخرین کلمه من هنوز منتظر بودم ناگهان ورق برگرده و بگن بعله اگه فلانطور بشه میشه از جنگ جلوگیری کرد.
اما آخرین نتیجه این بود:نه تنها سیاست و اقتصاد موجب جنگ میشه، بلکه غریزه ی آدمها هم.
پس بجنگ تا بجنگیم :)تشکر از خسرو ناقد که ترجمه ش خیلی خوب و روان بود.
Fue una buena lectura, si la introducción no hubiera sido tan extensa, latosa e innecesaria hubiera sido una lectura escelente.
Freud argued that the making of an identity is always violent, if it is essential enough, and that identity cannot come into being without the sight of an Other.
Therefore warring in history is unstoppable.Freud was being really gentle and considerate towards Einstein at the end of his letter, by asserting that civilization — the sublimation and repression of libido — is the cure towards war.
So, either be in peace and repressive and self-loathing and anxious and all together miserable, or war — which is also miserable.
He saw the war on Iraq.
Für mich, besonders in dieser schweren Zeit, in der wir leben, ein wichtiges Buch.Das Buch ist von 1972.Es gibt einen Brief von Albert Einstein an Sigmund Freud und dessen Antwort und ein Essay von Isaac Asimov, was mir besonders gefallen hat. Er ist einer meiner Lieblings-SF-Autoren.Warum gibt es Kriege? Warum sind wird so? Echt sehr gute Überlegungen zum Thema. Isaac Asimov kommt übrigens zu der Überzeugung, das Nationalstaaten überflüsslig sind. Die Lösung der Erde kann nur eine Weltregierung sein. Aber dazu müssten viele Nationen mitmachen und ihre Eigenständigkeit aufgeben. Das wird nie passieren.
Einsteins Brief war philosophischer als erwartet, Freuds Antwort wiederum genauso psychoanalytisch wie ich es mir vorgestellt hatte. Freud ging auf seinen letzten Seiten auf den wichtigen Punkt der Hinnahme des Kriegs und Kulturentwicklung ein, der das Ganze schön abrundete. Sehr beeindruckend fand ich den Essay von Asimov, der verdeutlicht, wie die stetige Bevölkerungszunahme problematisch für die Menschheit werden wird. Ganz amüsant war, dass er für das Jahr 2000 eine Bevölkerungsauslöschung nicht ausgeschlossen hat, ganz interessant wenn man seine Ansichten aus 1971 mit den heutigen Zuständen vergleicht.
As friends and family of mine are turning to ethnonationalism and conspiracy theories it’s refreshing to read the words of a man like Einstein. However it is also depressing to in retrospect see the futility of their efforts. It’s a very short book, and Freud takes up most of it while I personally find the words of Einstein to be more intriguing, possibly because the questions are more interesting than the answers could possibly be.
Citado en  El extraño orden de las cosas. Einstein le pregunta a Freud que se puede hacer ante lo que le preocupaba la situación de Europa antes de la segunda guerra mundial, y Freud le da una respuesta bastante pesimista.
"Se a propensão para aderir à guerra é um efeito do instinto destrutivo, o plano mais óbvio será trazer eros, o seu antagonista e agir contra ele. Tudo o que encoraje o fortalecimento dos laços emocionais entre os homens deve atuar contra a guerra. Esses laços podem ser de dois tipos."If you want to know what kind of bonds...you have to read the book :)
Very interesting to read the culture of the time as expressed by the way each person talks. Also the personalities of those extinguished characters.
This is a timely read given the current situation of the world today and how leaders of nations vie for their lust of power and self interests at the expense of destruction and loss of lives of the people they are supposed to 'represent' and protect.
Both are pacifists as revealed in these exchanges wherein while they thought about the capacity of men to violence and destruction, they both sought ways to understand the causes and how to prevent such disastrous calamities from happening (which as they admit, were beyond their capacity to thwart).
Einstein ve Freud arasındaki mektuplar diye yazmışlar ama her ikisinden de sadece bir adet mektup var. Biraz bilgilendirme biraz da 2. dünya savaşı hakkında bilgi mevcut. Bende oluşturduğu beklentiyi veremedi.Freud'un kıskanç ve iki yüzlü biri olduğunu anladım.Einstein için şanslı ve kendisi için badireleri göğüsleyen tanımını kullanmış bir röportajda ve üstüne Einstein'a mektubunda beni seçtiğiniz için gurur duydum gibi laflar ederken gene başka bir röportajda psikanalizden anlamayan birisi ile mektuplaşmak hiç yararlı değildi ve sıkıcıydı diye konuşmuş.
La correspondance entre Einstein et Freud traite de la violence humaine ramenée à des instincts primaires. L'ambivalence dynamique de droit-pouvoir et solidarité-revendication entre groupes et nations est assimilée à celle, destructrice-créatrice, qui existe au sein même des individus. Il est vrai que le génie peut s'exprimer de plus d'une matière, et les essais de ces grands hommes, bien qu'hors de leurs domaines d'expertise, valent la peine d'être lus.
Previous to reading this book, I had no idea that Einstein and Freud were connected. Their exchange of ideas about the nature of human beings and war are fascinating. For a non-native speaker, the German was a little dense but manageable.
bah oui? hein pourquoi?vive la planete des Singes!
Meine Rezension dazu findet ihr hier:http://janasbooklook.blogspot.de/2010...
I think this is the same book I just read in Norwegian. It was very interesting and thought provoking, especially for a philosopher like me.
Fantástico! Duas das mais brilhantes mentes do século 20 debatendo as origens da guerra.
Correspondence between Albert Einstein and Sigmund Freud concerning human nature and the causes of war. Published in 1933.
