https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/73062.Scarlett
Horrible, over-dramatised, unbelievable, a very bad, bad book.A couple months ago, I was at Barnes and Noble.
A Romanian girl was talking to her American friend about how she read Gone with the Wind in Romanian.
Now she'd love to read it in English.
She had a book in her hands, but it was not Gone with the Wind.
It was Scarlett!
I informed her that the book she was holding was not Gone with the Wind, but a sequel.
A horrible sequel she would regret reading.
Then I picked up the right book for her.
I believe I did a good deed.
TRASH TRASH TRASHthe only thing more insulting than this book was Timothy Dalton as Rhett Butler!
"God's Nightgown" I enjoyed it, but REALLY wanted more Rhett!The story begins with Melanie's funeral where SCARLETT makes a spectacle of herself comforting Ashley....."the cause of her life's destruction".....that exacerbates her isolation and ostracism from Atlanta society.So.....a downhearted SCARLETT returns to her beloved Tara for comfort, but all is not well there either with an aged Mammy and Suellen as hateful as ever.With constant thoughts of how to win back her only true love, the story takes us to a still occupied Charleston where Rhett makes a lucrative offer to be rid of her forever, but a frightening experience gives her hope once again.
But there are some moments when she tilts her head at a certain angle, or she smiles that gleeful smile, or she suddenly looks lost......and I come close to forgetting what I know."
It was highly anticipated and, of course, there were folks lining up on both sides of the issue as to whether it could even hope to be a worthy follow-up to Margaret Mitchell's epic novel or whether it should be judged on its own merits as the continuation of Scarlett's and Rhett's story.
No one who loved GWTW can deny that he/she WANTED to know how the story of Scarlett and Rhett turned out.
I was happy that Scarlett finally realized how much she loved and needed Rhett.
"Nu era decât o durere fizică, acesteia îi putea face față. Nu putea suporta însă cealaltă durere, mai greu de numit, pe care o tot amâna. Nu încă, nu aici, nu acum când încă era singură. Trebuie să ajungă la Tara, numaidecât. Mammy era acolo, o aștepta.""Genunchii lui Scarlett se înmuiară. Rhett nu putea vorbi serios. Ce avea să se întâmple cu ea? Casa de pe strada Piersicului, tonele de cărbune de care avea nevoie pentru încălzire, servitorii care trebuiau să țină casa, gradina, caii, trăsurile, mâncarea pentru toți - ce naiba, totul costa o avere."
This book was so awful I sent it back to the publisher and demanded my money back. They sent it to me.
Basically Rhett Butler is now your everyday alpha-male, and Scarlett just a damsel-in-distress, waiting for a man to save her.
Mrs. Ripley, please, I'm begging you, read GWtW, because it's obvious you didn't.
Scarlett would have never left.
Scarlett is Tara.
(hide spoiler)]Maybe I should write a sequel too, where Melanie isn't dead, it was only coma, and Scarlett and Rhett are actually siblings, separated at child birth.
That would be a bestseller.If you liked GWtW - and I bet there a lot out there who did - don't read this piece of utter shit.
Many have made the mistake of judging Scarlett by the horrible TV movie that was made from it. Please don't! This book is such a good read and really goes along with Margaret Mitchell's book. (Much was left out of the Gone With the Wind movie.)Scarlett gives closure to  Gone With the Wind  fans. I've read it multiple times and have enjoyed it more each time. I definitely recommmend this book!
I fell in love with "Gone With the Wind" when I was little and watched the movie over and over with my aunts.
I even fell in love with Margaret Mitchell's story and why she wrote the book.
My friend claims that as a separate book, not seen as a sequel, it is a pretty good book.
However, I have trouble seeing it separately as it is not at all what I would think Mitchell would want to happen.
In conclusion, even though Ripley writes an okay story, she does not stay true to Mitchell's charcters.

So I am a huge Gone With the Wind groupie.
I think Clark Gable is the most gorgeous man ever and I want to be Vivan Leigh.
I even own the Scarlett Collector's Item Barbie!
Scarlett: A Sequel to Gone With the Wind is an amazing book.
It picks up right where GWtW left off and never disappoints.
It's about 880 pages, but I swear you never even notice.
The storyline is believable and the plot has so many twists and turns that you're never bored.
My only regret: It wasn't written early enough to make a good movie sequel : )
As a sequel to GWTW it indeed gave closure; Scarlett is such a tragic character with so many flaws and strengths that it was sort of satisfying to see her finally figure out something approximating happiness.That said, I didn't find it at all convincing.
I didn't find her transition from selfish to loving at all convincing: Ripley can plot a story arc, but her characters are pretty flat.
She didn't do a good job moving Scarlett from psychic point A to point B.
This was the first book I remember being so anticipated, and dreaded at the same time. I didn't think anyone could do justice to the first story and thought they should leave well enough alone. Yet I had to read it the first chance I got, and it truly did suck, with as much force as a book can suck. The characters were watered down versions of their original glory, and Scarlet, though never an angel, was just this simpering fool of a woman that the original would never have put up with. Seriously, what the hell.
Scarlett now has a bun-in-the-oven (surprise!) and she knows it's the way right back into Rhett's bed life, but since she's been assured Rhett can never, ever divorce her, Scarlett decides she wants a bit of freedom.FoolSo...Scarlett and some of her new-found O'Hara relatives take ship to Ireland where Scarlett meets more and more and more cousins and aunts and uncles and the grandmother who was named after her.
Then there's this kerfuffle over the Irish rebels, (view spoiler)[the town burns and everyone's murdered, but Rhett is there to save Scarlett and their daughter  (hide spoiler)] and two or three pages of HEA.
There would have been no movie and no one would ever have heard of Vivien Leigh.I started off with low expectations, and found that "Scarlett" was easy to read and reasonably entertaining.
The reason I finally decided to read it was that my book group is reading GWTW, and some had expressed interest in this as well.
Events from GWTW are recycled with little change in description.The character of Scarlett bothered me very much.
How's that for love?Oh, and perhaps the author should have read the first line of GWTW: "Scarlett O'Hara was not beautiful...."Finally, I just got tired of the book.

Fanfiction.
"What Were They Thinking?" when the estate of Margaret Mitchell agreed to publish this rag.
This book is disgraceful. Imagine the characters in Margaret Mitchell's classic as watered-down, one dimensional people with none of their original characteristics; add unlikely storylines that border on bizarre; finish with pat, easily predicted ending. Margaret Mitchell must be rolling in her grave. How anyone who loved the first book could feel that this book matches it is beyond my understanding...it would be like comparing an original Degas to a velvet clown painting purchased at a truck stop.
I read it because I LOVED Gone With the Wind, but in this book the characters aren't even recognizable as the same people, and do all sorts of well, just bizarre things.
The real Scarlett was too self-absorbed to ever be like that!Anyway, it's really sad for me to see one of the best literary masterpieces be sequelled by such a terrible B romance.
So, if you read Gone With the Wind and have had your eye on the sequel, DON'T read it!
You would be better off writing your own version of the sequel, which in fact I was tempted to do after reading this calamity because it couldn't possibly be worse.
One of the worst books I've ever read! Don't waste your time or money on this piece of utter rubbish!
it's hard to go from a masterpiece of epic proportions to a follow up novel, so let's not compare them.
lets just say, if you want to read one person's interpretation of what could have happened, go for it, it is not a deep read.
as far as actual writing and storytelling goes, the ending is severely lacking.
it seems as if ripley was under a time crunch and just needed to end it, regardless of the loose ends that needed to be tied up or the lack of character consistencies displayed.
It's a great love story!After seeing the movie Gone With The Wind for the umpteenth time and once again being disappointed there was no happy ending (sorry you classic lovers, but the ending where Scarlett says she’ll find a way to win Rhett back just begs for the rest of the story!), I was glad there was a sequel.
(There are whole chapters where Scarlett and Rhett never encounter each other.) Still, I found it a very satisfying love story and it kept me reading late into the night (two nights in a row!).
When I was a freshman in college, I saw Gone with the Wind for the first time.
My roomie loved the old movies and I saw it with her one weekend at her house.
It's so funny because I didn't know much about the movie, but I sort of knew that people were not happy with the ending.
Wouldn't you know that I spent a couple of days DURING FINALS to read this 1000 page book.
I really want to read Gone with the Wind, so I'm adding it to my list.
I am not a huge fan of Gone With the Wind, but I honestly can say that this is the worst sequel I ever have had the displeasure of reading. Mitchell's family never should have had allowed this to be written. Horrible story, horribly written - a disgrace to Martha Mitchell.
I hated this book. I think I was looking for some closure that I never got from GWTW.
I think I'm frustrated that Ms. Mitchell herself didn't write a sequel to Gone With the Wind, and it's a little hard to know if you're supposed to like a book when some dared to touch such a classic.
I did not enjoy the historical aspects of this book nearly as much as those in Gone With the Wind.
I *do* love good reunions and happy endings, though, and this books gave us the ending we all longed for in Gone With the Wind.
(Horatio Alger was a more convincing author.) I like Gone With The Wind - like, not love.
It's a damn engaging story.
The writing is vivid and engaging, the love affairs are tumultuous, and all of the major players are a pain-in-the-ass.
When Rhett dumps Scarlett, it's the perfect, inevitable culmination of their respective characters.
The ending goes like this:"Rhett!
Oh, Rhett!
You are my one true love and not at all a Mary Sue created by the author's incomprehensible need to give a happy ending to the best tragic ending in trashy literature."(Since they are already on a beach, they strip naked and proceed to get it on.)
I read Scarlett after i read Gone With The Wind.Both of this book is amazing..I really love it...Love... Love... Love...But I haven't seen the movie of gone with the wind..Hiks..;(Scarlett and Gone With The Wind are bought by my father, first my dad just bought Gone With The Wind but after i read it. I start to beg my dad to buy Scarlett( I can't buy by myself for i don't have money:0 )But... Scarlett and Gone With The Wind are very very very niceee....
Bleeeech.
