https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/57658.The_Treasure_of_the_Sierra_Madre
upon his death in 1969 it was discovered that no record of birth for Hal Croves ever existed.
copies of der ziegelbrenner were found in Hal Croves's archive.
in the 1970s Feige's brother was located and confirmed that a picture of Marut/Croves was his brother Otto who disappeared in 1905.
he had a german accent.other pseudonyms used by Croves/Marut/Torsvan/Traven: Albert Otto Max Wienecke, Fred Gaudet, Goetz Ohly, Anton Raderscheidt, Robert Bek-Gran, Hugo Kronthal, Wilhelm Scheider, Heinrich Otto Becker.
if we follow the timeline from Feige to Marut to Torsvan to Croves, we find B.
other theories claim that Marut/Croves/Torsvan/Traven was, in fact, the writer Jack London.
The movie has been one of favorites for many years, but I never read the book.
Traven excels at conveying what life would have been like in Mexico back in the Twenties.
However, if the mysterious Mr. Traven was actually a German then English would not have been his first language.
Another issue with the novel is Traven's anti-clerical and anti-capitalist attitudes tend to crash in at times.
However , despite those two main quibbles (and a couple minor ones that I'm not going to go into at this time) the overall book is very good.
It's an engrossing read and worth the time to dig into it.
Brilliant, radical, underrated, economically written in every sense of the word.
Moonlighting union man?) only adds another fun layer of enigma (evidently he's the inspiration for Archimboldi in Bolano's 2666) to what is a very accessible, readable, finely-honed tale of bad men in hard times under a pitiless climate.
"Anyone who is willing to work and is serious about it will certainly find a job.
Only you must not go to the man who tells you this, for he has no job to offer and doesn't know anyone who knows of a vacancy.
Traven’s classic novel, which became a classic movie, about greed, gold, and violence in the Mexican wilderness, is a thoughtful, entertaining morality tale.
The movie followed Traven’s plot and dialogue pretty closely, except for some variation in the ending where the film collapses scenes for economy sake, and for a couple of long, but entertaining mining yarns told by Howard, the grizzled prospecting veteran.
Traven has knowledge and affection for the Mexican landscape and people that is evidenced in his writing.
John Huston got the movie right but B.
Traven first got the novel right.
Traven, is a mystery man but his novels are some of the best moral adventure tales that I have ever read.
Treasure of the Sierra Madre is his best known novel, probably due to the film version directed by John Huston and starring Humphrey Bogart.
A genuinely exciting adventure tale, it is also a psychological novel that takes us through the disintegration of one of the three, Dobbs, as the gold they find corrupts his soul.
Traven also explores the contrast of cultures with the white man's culture operating on the principle of greed while the Indians adhere to a myterious principle which they call "happiness".
Traven’s desolate 1927 classic, you’ll know it stars Humphrey Bogart and Tim Holt as two down-at-heels Americans basically living on the streets of Mexico, and Walter Huston as the fogy prospector who’s willing to partner-up in a quest for gold.
You’ll also know that they come about as close as one can get without succeeding.
Mostly though you’ll probably recall how the young men are driven to a madness that the old coot manages to keep at bay with a healthy dose of pragmatic fatalism.Scholars have said this is a retelling of Chaucer’s “The Pardoner’s Tale;” it might be more accurate to say it’s the American Dream exiled and then shot dead.
I’m very fond of the movie it inspired, so expected to enjoy this book.
I’m not saying the book is without merit, but I approached it with expectations that were too high.
The three men who form an uneasy alliance in order to make their fortunes in the Sierra Madre never let down their guard long enough to establish anything approaching real friendship.
He is as eager to make his fortune as the others, but he also insists that the only real business of a man is “to live and be happy.” He respects the native peoples and the land.
Written in the 30's, this story provides intricate details about the adventures of the poor scrapping men trying to find work in Mexico.
It is about Spanish and American imperialism, the power of capitalism, the despoiling of the environment (yet another oil boom), religious elitism and power mongering and (mostly) the omnipresent greed in the heart of every man.
Three men seek their fortune in gold, finding that it is a chore and there are unimagined perils.
The old man (Howard) seems to see into all their hearts and know what is coming.
In the end there is much danger, and treachery and murder.
Every bit as noir as Hammett or Chandler. Every bit as existential as Camus. The Treasure of Sierra Madre is a great book often overlooked today, but still has a bit of a cult following. It's a must-read for lovers of crime novels of both the mystery & detective version and westerns.
Excellent adventure tale from the mysterious B. Traven. This book can really give you a taste of being down and out in a hot, dusty foreign country.
El tesoro de Sierra Madre es una novela de B Traven, personaje singular del que lo poco que se sabe se duda, inclusive B Traven es uno de los tantos seudónimos utilizados.
Creando así una novela muy interesante con mucha tensión y algún que otro giro inesperado que a su vez pierde efecto al tener continuidad predecible pasado el cambio.Hay algo mucho más interesante que la aventura y son las relaciones entre los personajes, sus aspiraciones, traiciones, hasta donde son capaces de llegar por un puñado más de dolares.
I love B Traven’s work, the 6 novels of the jungle series are unusual and terrific in their vivid illustration of the exploitation of labor in virtual slave conditions and the power in the human spirit to keep going and struggling.
Of course I should have known that the novel would be so much more than this adventure movie which is essentially about greed and the lust for sand that can be exchanged for wealth.Well, the novel is so much more.
The action is interrupted a few times during the course of the story, as the characters tell tales of legionary previous mines.
Traven was by many friends, and told of the mystery that surrounds the author - (no one knowing really who B.
Traven is, or even if there is more than one author, what country the author originates from or anything else).And then a friend of mine gave me a copy of this book, and I devoured it.
A suspenseful read with many exciting Adventures that make you never wan't to put it down. I suggest this book to readers of all ages. Happy Reading!
Απολαυστική περιπέτεια με χρυσοθήρες στο Μεξικό ανάμεσα στους δύο παγκόσμιους πολέμους. Ληστές τραίνων, ινδιάνοι και Αμερικάνοι χρυσοθήρες συνθέτουν ένα σκληρό σκηνικό.
Because we wonder who we would end up becoming in a similar situation.While not listed as horror or mystery or just plain scary, The Treasure of the Sierra Madre gives us a look into the human condition in all its terrifying glory.
The human mind is one of the scariest places on earth.***"It is always more convenient to dream of what might be."".
When you have it your soul is no longer the same as it was before.""Tell you, the best thing is going alone.
All the time murder's lurking about.""It isn't gold that changes man, it is the power which gold gives to man that changes the soul of man.
This is my first novel by Traven, before I had only read his short stories and loved them.
I loved how Traven tells not just one story of three men and their search for gold in the Sierra Madre, he also tells stories of others who have searched (and found) treasure and what happened to them.
Not only that but also hearing the natives' perspective on the white men and their madness when it comes to gold and oil.
It's a novel packed with social criticism that's still relevant today, about cultures that are in danger of extinction, and about human nature corrupted by things that should remain in the ground.
The portrait of Humphrey Bogart on the cover of this book has been staring me down for at least a couple years now.
I must have bought this book after re-watching the fantastic John Huston film adaptation.
The film has once again faded from memory, so I am now, of course, eager to see it once again.Traven's novel is a well-told adventure story, set in Mexico, with themes of greed and duplicity.
Traven's intimacy with Mexico is evident, and paints a convincing portrait of the country.
In the manner of an epic, the novel plays host to several "frame" tales (long, fabulous narratives told by the immediate characters).
Dieses Buch hat sich echt gezogen, was, wie ich denke, daran lag, dass darin leider nicht wirklich etwas passiert.
Der Geschichte fehlt einiges an Spannung, wodurch das ganze mehr zu einer Aneinanderreihung verschiedenster kleiner Geschichten wird.
Ich fand recht gut, dass der Autor nicht versucht hat die Charaktere schön zu reden.
Dadurch fehlt aber auch eine genauere Beschreibung der Figuren (äußerlich und innerlich), wodurch einem dessen Schicksal relativ egal wird.Insgesamt ist das Buch ist eine allgemein gefasste, philosophisch angehauchte, Anekdote zur Menschlichen Natur, was einem teilweise vom Autor auch in klare Sätze verpackt wird.
Das er dabei nur offensichtliches Beschreibt, macht das ganze nicht erträglicher.
Príbeh sa začína v Durangu, mexickom meste, kde sa Dobbs pretĺka a nemôže nájsť prácu.
Neskôr sa k nemu pridajú dvaja companeros a vydajú sa do hôr za vidinou zlata.
Nespája ich priateľstvo, ani prílišné sympatie.
Napriek tomu, že sú spolu, sú v skutočnosti každý za seba a nerozdelia sa len preto, lebo jeden druhého potrebujú.
Vedie ich Howard, starý zlatokop, ktorý vie, že zlato mení ľudí v diablov a snaží sa spoločníkov popredu varovať.
To čo sa však začne diať ďalej, má ďaleko od akéhokoľvek klišé dobrodružných románov a čitateľa čakajú nečakané prekvapenia.
Stačí len vyčkať dostatočný počet strán...
The story was interesting enough to keep me hooked despite the dense language. Every so often little gems of lines would pop through making me think David Sedaris had clearly written this story has an homage to westerns and that all the tales of this book being old were inside jokes I never got. But then, blatant racism would draw me back to the time when authors could only say 'funking' as not to be censored. These tid bits still leave puzzled and question the well written morals of this story. Nonetheless, a must read.
This book is an underrated masterpiece. It's the basis for the classic John Huston movie of the same name ("We don't need no badges! I don't have to show you any stinkin' badges!"). Nobody seems to know who or what a "B. Traven" is, but he produced a compelling and beautifully written novel. As one of the Mexican bandits in the story might say, read it you goddamned cabrón and chinga tu madre!
Bollocks. Traven, you are one of the few people in history who has managed to write a book duller than the (quite good) film upon which it was based.
BOOOooooooooooooooooo!
The Price of avaricia
"Gold does things to man's mind..."


This story line is exceptional.
Traven, was apparently German by birth.The story is told from the point of view of expatriate Americans trying to make a living in Mexico between the world wars, where Traven lived for years.The movie made from this book by Huston, with Bogart as the character "Dobbs", won three academy awards.When I read a book and feel that I am there..
when I feel that kind of stuff while reading?
It is an EXCEPTIONAL WORK OF ART.Need I say more?
The story is awesome, and to get four stars from me means an exceptional work.
Tre avventurieri si addentrano in luoghi deserti, lontani dalla civiltà, inseguendo il miraggio dell'oro: ma quel metallo prezioso, tanto a lungo desiderato e sognato, scatenerà i loro istinti più brutali fino all'imprevedibile finale. Un bel libro di avventure capace di scavare nell'animo umano e di mettere a nudo l'incapacità dell'uomo di abbandonarsi ai sentimenti migliori, quelli che dovrebbero contraddistinguerlo dalle bestie
