https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21722.Faithless
Jeffrey and Sara are walking through the woods near her home when they stumbled upon a pipe coming up from underneath the ground.
What lay beneath was heartbreaking, leading them into an investigation of a family who seems to have plenty of secrets.
They're also leaders of a religious lifestyle that appears cult like.
This was a disturbing story that also explores the subject of domestic abuse.
The investigation took some interesting turns, even though the field of suspects was narrow.
Typical of this series, the story ends on a surprising and ominous note.
This was another roller coaster. Sometimes hard to keep track of all the characters. With each book, Jeffrey and Sara are growing on me. I love that they are not the perfect couple. They argue. Her parents are great too. Lena, I don't know if she will ever have a Happy Ever After.Some parts of this book were quite heartbreaking. Terri, my heart bled for her.Off to review the last in the series!!
I'm drawing a blank on how to express myself over this one. It was really long, and I'm annoyed that we get no real definite resolution over this installment's Big Bad (though it is somewhat implied), and honestly the third star is because of Lena's actions right at the end and how happy it made Jeffrey. Because it made me happy, too. Vague review is short and vague.
This is the first I've read of any Karin Slaughter books.
Quite a few GR friends are reading her thrillers so when I saw this audio book at the library I grabbed it on a whim.
I realized as I listened to the book that a lot had happened in the previous 4 books in the series that I should have read first.I like the main characters, Sara and Jeffrey.
There are so many characters, however, that it's hard to keep track of them all.
I did like the plot, but felt the book was too wordy and could have used some editing.
I love Karin Slaughter, and I really love this series!
Another thing that I would like to note is how close Nan and Lena have become.
I think watching their relationship form and grow has been great.
They both loved Sybil and to see them living together and becoming friends I think has been really great.
I also would like to say how much I think Lena has grown throughout the series and especially in this book.
They have that love/hate brother sister relationship that is humorous but serious and Slaughter does a great job at showing how Lena has grown not only on her own but with Jeffrey as well.
It may have taken we awhile to finish this book, but that had nothing to do with the story.
Although the story line was disturbing, I enjoyed the telling of it.
They have been through so much and yet continue to stick together.
This book centered around a sort of church cult and it makes you wonder about the non-fiction churches out there.
I was able to determine who the "bad guy" was long before Sara and Jeff, but it didn't ruin the story.
She continues to act so strong yet so weak and it gets irritating.
Hopefully things will look up in the next book.
Faithless, the 5th book in the Grant County series by Karin Slaughter, is centered around Jeffrey Tolliver, the County Sheriff and Sara Linton, the County’s ME and local pediatrician (as well as Jeffrey’s ex-wife and current lover).Jeffrey and Sara are out walking in the woods when Jeffrey gives Sara shocking news.
While Ross did a good job, I didn’t feel that she was at the same level as Early and the extreme difference in voice and delivery took me out of the story more than once as I compared the two narrators.I am looking forward to the 6th and final book in the series.Rating: 4 Stars
This book by Karin Slaughter might be my favorite one so far.
I've read quite a few of her books and even a novella or two.
Her books are often heavy on violence towards women.
This book also possessed that same thread.
But I feel that was balanced by everything else.
It didn't feel like the often abused 'shock and awe' trick I dislike.
There were a few different threads woven into the plot and I liked that.
She also does a great job with her characters.
Not only are they well drawn, but they also progress and change, even if it is just a little.
Faithless is an excellent police procedural novel, but what really makes it stand out is the author's way of perfectly capturing Georgia's scenery and southern mood among the crime and suspense.
I love this series, this book was just a bit off for me. I didn't feel the usual closeness to the characters. Looking forward to the rest of the Grant county books.
Faithless is good but not as great as its predecessor. A young girl is found dead and poisoned by Jeffrey and Sara while they're out walking while fighting through the woods (what's new, right?). Jeffrey has recently moved in with Sara when he discovers he might have Hepatitis C after his one indiscretion years ago. Predictably, Sara is upset. She might be infected as well and carrying the virus without knowing it. She wants Jeffrey to be tested again (her cousin has already done a test) when t
Faithless is good but not as great as its predecessor.
A young girl is found dead and poisoned by Jeffrey and Sara while they're out walking while fighting through the woods (what's new, right?).
I think Jon Snow knows more than she does.
She's nothing but trouble for Sara and Jeffrey as well as for Nan and Greg.
I know plenty of people who are homeschool and is for neither of those reasons (avoiding bullies being the most common) but I digress.....My friend told me I should start the Will Trent series before I read the last book since both series will connect.
I’m terrified to keep going into the last book in this series because I really like where these characters find themselves at the end of Faithless.
Audiobook Notes: As is my norm with this series, I excitedly borrowed the Faithless by Karin Slaughter audiobook from my local digital library because Kathleen Early IS the Grant County Series and I don't even want to imagine these books without her reading them to me.
Imagine my surprise when I started the audiobook and five books into the series, we have a new narrator!
Reaching the end, though, with a novel you really enjoy is a bittersweet moment.Having visited Georgia on multiple occasions, I was right at home with the rural Georgia setting, and Karin provides enough details to paint a picture as real as your favorite travel destination.
Like any good crime novelist, she has clearly done her homework on both setting and investigative details.If you like your crime novels hovering on the edges of darkness and despair, then this is one novel, and possibly even author, you’ll want to get to know a little better.
Fast paced thriller set in a small county. For a 500 page mystery, this will engage you from start to finish.
4.5 stars rounded upFinally, after the disaster I felt the last book was, here we get back on track with superb writing and plot from Slaughter.I loved the way the crime developed.
I'm not completely on board with the development of the personal relationships, same as before, and I have a slight worry for how they are all going to turn out, one book away from the ending of the series.I'm still 100% hooked on the series.But, since a fucker (my sister) spoiled for me the terrible, horrible finale of the series that happens in the next book I'm not really sure I'm happy to continue.
Thankfully, everyone says Book 1 of the Will Trent series is amazeballs, so I'm all up for that.
I think what really keeps me coming back to this series is the characters.
I really enjoy the ups and downs of the main characters in her novels and I seem to be more interested in what is going on with them, than the actual plot of the story.
I enjoy learning what came before they were paired up, and I will continue this series.
I am still hopeful that the next book in the Grant County series is better.
Once again, Chief Jeff Tolliver, Sara Linton, and Lena Adams are in the mayhem of a murder.
In the midst of the solve, there is a corporate church family that has secrets that make you cringe and then rage at the senselessness of it all.
It'll make your own domestic squabbles look tame in comparison to this family.
For the life of me I can't understand Lena, the cop who has had so many traumatic experiences that she continues to work for the Chief of Police.
Shit or get off the pot Karin.
Lena is either dead now or get her shit straightened out.
A few of my friends read this series before me and kind of spoiled the last two books for me - no hard feelings.Now it just takes me twice as long to finish them as it originally would.Karin still is one of the most brilliant writers out there!I think I'll just take a bit of a break before I read the last book of the Grant County series, in the hope that I will forget the spoilers!
However, it is nice to know that the characters (Sara, Jeffrey and Lena) in the Grant County will appearance in the Will Trent series (Slaughter’s other series).There are lots of murders in this small town in Georgia.
In this novel, a young woman is discovered murdered in the woods and Sara (medical examiner and local pediatrician) and Jeffrey (police chief) have to start from ground zero, including finding out who the woman is.Once they have identified the woman, the case is just gets started.
I liked how Lena (one of the town’s detectives) seems to be moving forward with her life, instead of backwards like in the previous novels.
3,5 Me ha gustado, pero leí un spoiler del siguiente libro y que tristeza... Me lo saltaré y paso a la serie de Will Trent
As expected, so good! Love these characters.
There's a pipe protruding from her burial place which should have provided air, but an autopsy reveals that the young girl who happens to be a member of a religious cult did not suffocate but was killed by cyanide, which was poured down the breathing tube.
There is a subplot on domestic violence which is very revealing and it may be difficult for the reader to comprehend how a seemingly rational woman would allow herself to be continually victimized.
The relationship between the Sara and Jeffrey remains unresolved, leaving room for at least a couple more books revolving around the strained relationship between this couple.
Karin Slaughter writes some of the most powerful and heart-stopping Crime Thrillers out there.
I'm always hooked from the start and intrigued by the different characters.
One minute I'm furious with a character and the next minute I'm pulling for their happiness!
Not many authors can change my mind when I've decided a character is the pits.
Slaughter did.
Faithless is one of the best books in her series with lots of twists and turns.
The characters and intricate plot are fabulous, making for an exciting read that will keep the pages turning!

I have so many mixed reviews on the Grant County Series- but having said that - Karin Slaughter is one of my favorite authors- I like her writing and her style....
I can say if you really like the romance and thriller then without a doubt this series is for you....of course this series ended in 2007 so for those just reading it (like I am) start from book 1 - there are only 6 --- and THEN go to Will Trent series .
Not realizing that some of the character(s) will appear or be mentioned in the Will Trent series, I went back to Grant County finish this series off.
4.5 stars - Slaughter never fails to keep me on the edge of my seat, heart racing, turning pages as fast as I can read. Pay attention to details - every word, sentence, paragraph - all should be scrutinized in a Slaughter book, as they all inevitably prove to be important later. And navigate the twists & turns with care...you never know what surprise this author will have waiting on the next page...but you can be sure there will be at least a couple of shockers. Loved it! A Page Burner!
Faithless3.5 StarsWhile the mystery revolving around the discovery of the body of a young girl who was buried alive appears rather straightforward at first, there is more to the case than first meets the eye.
The twists and turns along the way keep the reader guessing and the ultimate resolution is, as is to be expected from Karin Slaughter, quite surprising.
The continuing character development is also compelling as Sara and Jeffrey reach a crossroad in their relationship, and Lena must decide what to do about her self-destructive romance with Ethan.
All in all, another compelling installment in the Grant County series.
4.5 StarsIn this installment of Karin Slaughter's Grant County Series, Sara Linton and Jeffrey Tolliver are getting closer, though a new threat to their relationship rears its ugly head.
As they are coming out the woods near Sara's parents' home, Jeffrey literally stumbles across a body buried in the ground.
The girl's identity leads to a co op soy farm and to a very religious family who is somewhat misogynist.
Slaughter knows how to write and build up the suspension without giving up the bad guy until the end.
I recommend reading Karin Slaughter to everyone who loves a good thriller.
