https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/179744.The_Emperor_s_New_Mind
I've been reading this one since June and it's now 3 days til Christmas!Roger Penrose is a famous mathematician who worked with Stephen Hawking on black holes and who has done ground breaking work elsewhere (including on the surprisingly fundamental issue of tiling 2D spaces!).The book is about the nature of intelligence and whether it really can be an emergent property of algorithmic procedure (i.e. Turing Machines, i.e. computers as we know them).
The basics/feel of his final arguments could have been delivered by a less extensive tour of the whole of physics.At the end of it Penrose needs to postulate a quantum mechanical source for the brain's proposed ability to do what a computer (of any Turing Machine sort (including quantum computers, apparently) can't.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Physics and Computer Science for Laymen: "The Emperor's New Mind" by Roger PenrosePenrose certainly has a generous idea of his readers' mathematical ability.
Roger Penrose's books are as stated often inclusive of more mathematical devises than many books aimed at more laymen realms, so I often regard them as perhaps Bridging that gap between Solid Science Headaches and Laymen 'I read an article and am a common law know-all expert'.
Many other AI people I know who have have read the book feel similarly.On the other hand, Penrose's suggestion that we should think of people's minds as quantum-mechanical systems is interesting.
Next time you are unfortunate enough to get into one, and if you are sufficiently interested in these issues to remember the experiment you're supposed to do, consider whether it's intuitively reasonable to model the other person's state as a superposition of "actually still loves you", "totally pissed off, had enough", and possibly other eigenstates.
If you do think this is reasonable, consider whether your best strategy is to try and force them into an eigenstate, or leave it superposed.
Personally, I think it's often best to try to leave the state superposed.
The contents of quantum mechanics is the highest peakAmong every physics books.Climax of this book Q
It's hard for me to rate this one:the bulk of the book was a great deal of fun,in the vein of "Goedel, Escher, Bach";the concluding section seemed astonishinglyill-conceived. There's a big debate aroundthis, but the connections he makes strikeme as terribly wrong. Incompleteness doesn'tprove the human mind does something no machinecan do, and microtubules do not allow brain-widecoherence for special quantum-supercharged thinking that results in consciousness.But watching Icarus crash and burn might be as muchfun as watching him soar high and proud until then,so I certainly recommend this book to anyone whoenjoys following a brilliant mind broadly exploringmath and science.
Those two things are really what kept me on the edge of my seat (when I wasn't reading while walking) while I was reading this book!As someone interested both in neuroscience and mathematical physics I found this book absolutely brilliant and fascinating.
If you came to this book from the purely neuroscience side and really don't like mathematics and physics, then MAYBE this book isn't for you, but personally, I like how Penrose isn't afraid at all to go into mathematically detailed stuff when he feels it is necessary to do so...
He's very careful to distinguish between intelligence and consciousness: technical advances may make it possible for software to write symphonies, but that software, he claims, won't be conscious without taking advantage of certain quantum gravity effects which have not yet been observed and which are currently explained by no rigorously tested theory.There's a lot of suspense building to the thesis at the end, which he keeps well hidden up to then, intentionally or not.
The whole thing smells like the scientific writings of an intelligent, scientifically read creationist, doing whatever logical gymnastics are necessary to prove the desired point, as much to oneself as to anyone else.One possibility the author allows for is that the quantum gravity effects he's postulating are deterministic, but non-computable.
Yet, however many fascinating ideas he introduces, his core evidence is little more than hope that what he does as a mathematician is unique; that human "aha!" moments are somehow distinguished from anything a computer ever does.Penrose fervently declares that he is no "formalist", claiming that the mere idea of a computer arriving at mathematical proofs makes the pursuit of mathematical truth "meaningless".
It is a manufactured human ideal - a wonderful, enjoyable one at that.Penrose goes on to cite the vague notion of "reflection principles" (the imprecise methods by which the human mind discovers mathematical truth "upon reflection") as above and beyond algorithms.
The AI community, and materialist scientists who start with the premise that --- it's all in the brain; we don't know how or where but one day we will know, are the people that Penrose challenges.
Since the book's publication in 1989, when Penrose asserted that the nature of consciousness will not be explained in materialistic terms, his prediction has proved true.
It's a blow to our human hubris when a scientist makes a proposition that begins with the words: "It is not possible..." Using arguments based on Godel's theorem of incompleteness, and the work of Turing, Penrose makes a credible case for why consciousness will never be explained in materialistic terms.
I got so bored... too much formalism with having to explain all the mathematical and physical principles from the ground up before adding his own thoughts to the theme of consciousness. It all became too mucky to follow and keep track of, it felt more like a textbook for Penrose's ideas rather than an enlightening conversation that could offer me food for thought which I could digest.
بسم الله الرحمن الرحيم"بالعربي و دغري و من الآخر" كتاب من أجمل ما قرأت في حياتي حتى الساعة!الكتاب يبحث في السؤال الشهير: هل يمكن للآلة (الحاسوب) أن تقلد ذكاء الإنسان الصرف؟ و هل سيأتي زمن تصبح فيه الحواسيب ذات و عي وشعور؟!وللإجابة على مثل هذه التساؤلات العلمية الفلسفية يذهب بك الكاتب في جولة على أهم وأشهر المفاهيم والنظريات الفيزيائية ويشرحها بأسلوب علمي دقيق جميل سلس يسهل على غير المختصين فهم الجزء الكبير منه.
Not shying away from using the odd formula helps keep the ideas concrete and generally didn't freak out this reader too much.His reason for covering so much physics in order to explain his opinion on AI is that he thinks the process that turns quantum physics on the very tiny scale into classical physics on human scales is the non-computable process essential to consciousness (and is necessarily tied to quantum gravity).The discussion of the limitations of current theories seems much more insightful than the typical very speculative and fantastical projections of possible future physics found in popular cosmology.
I did a back-of-the-envelope calculation and told Roger that the decoherence times were at least ten orders of magnitude too low for the brain to be a quantum computer. No response. Then Max did it more carefully and said they were twenty orders of magnitude too low. Any advance on twenty?Sigh. I love Roger, but sometimes he just won't listen.
This is a great mathematical book, which goes deep into many mathematical and philosophical ideas.I was 17 when i first picked it up at a library and this book was my introduction to many mathematical concepts and quantum mechanics.The basic premise of the author in this book is that human consciousness cannot be simulated computationally.his hypothesis that the human brain is a quantum-mechanical structure is very interesting.Not an easy read, but definitely worth going through.
I recall agreeing with Penrose's skepticism about artificial intelligence through his discussion of the Chinese Room Problem and the idea that if it were possible to write down the "program" of a person's mind in a book then the book, in a very slowed down sense, would be intelligent.
From this I recall that his skepticism is about what some call the Strong AI hypothesis, which the Chinese Room Problem and the example of the book illustrate.
(It weakens it because it illustrates a reductio ad absurdum of the materialistic point of view.)Another interesting book, expressing skepticism toward AI is Hubert Dreyfus', "What Computers Can't Do".
It's a bulky layman's discourse on Artificial Intelligence, seeking the answer to the question "Can a computer ever possess true intelligence?" Its brilliance lies in fascinating and lucid coverage of a variety of subjects in mathematics, classical and quantum physics, relativity, and all of the philosophical underpinnings.
Unfortunately in the tumble of information Penrose neglects to pull the threads together and support a thesis.
I always looks back, say, at a chapter on the Mandelbrot set or Godel's Theorem, or whatever, thinking - that was great and fascinating, but what does it have to do with the nature of intelligence?
Penrose's thesis - that human thought and self-awareness are non-algorithmic - is supported indirectly, if at all.

A book about turing machines, Gödel's theorem, cosmology, quantum mechanics, neurology and consciousness? I was sold!Penrose is, IMHO, the best writer about physics. His style is friendly and relaxed but thorough. I do not follow his thesis that it is not possible to construct hard AI and brains need an quantum physical element to be understood. But this book deals with such interesting subjects and themes about the universe and our place in it, it is impossible not to be fascinated.

This book is fantastic for two reasons: 1. Its central idea: That the nature of human thought is ultimately non-algorithmic...a fascinating point of view in this AI dominated era 2. Being privy to the inner workings of Roger Penrose's mind. In an era in which scientific specialization is the norm, it is refreshing to read someone that jumps from chaos mathematics to computing and quantum gravity to answer questions about consciousness. If Hesse's "Glass Bead Game" was real, Roger Penrose will no doubt be one of its most accomplished players
Can computers actually be intelligent; will they feel, think, and have minds?The defenders of "strong-AI" say yes, but Penrose doesn't think so.
To explain his viewpoints, Penrose takes us on a ride through the developments in artificial intelligence (as it was in the end of the 1980s when he wrote the book), the workings of the Turing machine, the foundations of mathematics and Gödel's theorem, quantum theory and electromagnetism, and he does that really well.
I am still glad to have read The Emperor’s New Mind, as it provides an interesting contrast with Hofstadter's views on artificial intelligence, and I certainly learned a lot from the science chapters.
[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Objecti...]#2.
Честно говоря, это все пока выглядит маловероятным (особенно в интерпретации квазикристаллического роста дендритов и суперпозиции состояний в поиске лучшей структуры).
[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quasicr...]#3.
Но сама постановка вопроса об алгоритмизации сознания для меня является новой и любопытной.#5.
Попытка вывести второй закон термодинамики из космологии очень необычна и логически красива.Некоторые вопросы, которые мне стало интересно изучить после прочтения книги:1/ Может ли что-то внутри нейрона играть роль вычислительной техники?
Без всяких там квантовых эффектов.2/ Какие модели описания пластичности мозга существуют на текущий момент?3/ Могут ли быть внутри нейрона структуры, обладающие квантовыми эффектами?4/ Как там дела у разных гипотез квантовой теории гравитации?5/ Что такое время?
Es un libro obligado para todas las personas que gusten de la ciencia.En cuanto al tema principal con el que inicia el libro, estoy completamente de acuerdo con la conclusión del autor, y nunca había visto o siquiera vislumbrado la posibilidad de que en nuestro cerebro ocurran procesos físicos que aún no pueden ser explicados por las teorías actuales.
Well, I am still dizzy; It feels like emerging out of a concussion! Amazing read and I indeed loved it, the only problem is you can't read it like a novel because of its information overload - the amount of information that is littered on each page is just phew!Nevertheless, it was sort of warm up exercise for me for the things that are to be completed in the near future... Loved the whole experience: exciting, exulting, enthralling!
The sections of this book where Penrose outlines recent scientific and mathematical developments are excellent. Unfortunately, his philosophical reflections on those developments are rudimentary and clumsy to say the least. And his central claim that quantum mechanics holds the key to free will is just silly.
tldr;(well, I read a bit... zzz)
(reason here referring to our ability to form and work out cause and effect -- or cost and reward -- within a functioning model we have.) Chapter 10: Where lies the Physics of the Mind?It is an interesting idea that there must have been a evolutionarily viable reason for consciousness to emerge.
The power of the human mind does not lie in its ability to reason (statistically) based on environmental changes, but its ability for unreasonable leaps in the imagination.Just look at culture -- an essential part of communal organisms: the massive leaps in understanding we have of the world are not at all physically encoded through genes, or algorithmically processed, but are conceptual -- we inherit habits and understanding from others, very very quickly, through our conscious "modelling".
The unfamiliar but generally observant reader may have a working understanding of some of the ideas that form the core of Penrose's argument - Turing machines and computation; quantum gravity; split brain experiments, and so on.
The second is a personal challenge - Penrose marshals evidence against the claim that consciousness is bound up with language by providing examples, such as split brain experiments, of cases in which language manipulation and conscious thought were shown to be distinct.
Una lettura molto bella ed interessante che consiglio a tutti (impegnativa).Seguono capitoli davvero ben scritti su tutta la teoria della computazione ([Universal] Turing Machine, Problemi di Deducibilità, Tesi Alonzo Church, Teoria della complessità, Algoritmi P NP ecc..), su concetti matematici (Teorema di Gödel, platonismo, intuizionismo e formalismo), sulle teorie definite SUPERBE, la fisica, la cosmologia e la freccia del tempo, cervelli reali e modelli di cervello.Ho apprezzato molto la caratteristica di Penrose di descrivere con estrema chiarezza i diversi punti di vista su di un argomento, esponendo la sua opinione senza però insistere troppo a proprio favore, lasciando che sia il lettore a fronte di tutte le informazioni esposte a farsi una propria idea.Penrose è incline ad una matematica platonica assoluta, esterna ed eterna non fondata su criteri umani.
I do feel the weight of his reasoning - the challenge: can an algorithm's complexity really give us intelligence, and more, consciousness?
Whether quantum effects (or some deeper truth bridging the gravity/wave collapse picture) are the answer remains to further study.While initially I felt astounded by the audacity of a placement test for physical laws (superb, useful and tentative), it was an effective tool throughout the book.
Even if one is uninterested in consciousness or AI, but appreciates physics, there is a lot to recommend here.
The book poses good questions and repeatedly gives a feel for what we don't know.
