https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11966216-torn
What happens when everything changes?  Switched may not be the great introduction to this series, but Torn made it all up. There were a lot of developments here in this book thanks to my new favorite character-- ladies and gentlemen, Loki Staad!I have to make a special highlight to this awesome character because he deserves it. Loki is one spectacular character. I admired his realness and the way he treated Wendy in this book. He may be a Vittra but he wasn't considered a villain. To be honest,
There were a lot of developments here in this book thanks to my new favorite character-- ladies and gentlemen, Loki Staad!I have to make a special highlight to this awesome character because he deserves it.
I admired his realness and the way he treated Wendy in this book.
Also, Queen Elora finally made a great character development and she no longer played an evil witch in the series.
He spent so much time wallowing in self-pity and I just didn't like it.Tove, however, became an addition to my new favorite characters.
I hope the next and final book will not disappoint because I already find this series captivating.
The start of the book begins almost exactly where the end of Switched left off, with Wendy and Rhys running away from the palace in the Trylle's Förening.
He reacts with disbelief yet she tells him that she cannot tell him where she has been or Finn's part in it all.While in the midst of trying to understand what has happened, Matt finds a disliking towards Rhys.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: بیست و ششم ماه ژوئن سال 2015 میلادیعنوان: سرگردان؛ نویسنده: آماندا هاوکینگ ؛ مترجم: میترا فخارها؛ تهران، افق دور، 1391؛ در 408 ص؛ شابک: 9786006003931؛ موضوع: داستانهای کودکان از نویسندگان انگلیسی قرن 21 مکتاب اول سه گانه تریل (رانده شده) کتاب دوم سه گانه تریل (سرگردان) کتاب سوم سه گانه تریل (شکوفایی) ؛ ا.
Amazing.My heart is still  torn  between Loki and Finn.(Hehe get the pun?? Torn?? Like the title?)*laughter slowly dies off..*my sincere apologies for the introMy praise for Amanda Hocking:Thank you for making me die throughout the story.Thank you for making me cry.Thank you for granting me two deadly, hot, sexy guys.I couldn’t have made it through the story without them. ;)(Guys, I hope that part that you just read about two sexy guys will make you instantly pull out some money from our seemingly broke wallets and buy this book)I’ll be waiting for you guys to fangirl with me.Thank you.
In this second installment of the Trylle trilogy, we reunite with Wendy inside this strange new world she's still digesting.
In Switched, we're introduced to this new race of Trylle.
We meet the queen, we visit the kingdom and we learn where Wendy fits in all of this.
We get a bigger look at what the future will have in store, not only for Wendy, but for the whole Trylle race.
He is a great addition to the cast who is quickly becoming my favorite of the male characters.
so good…In this one we are introduced to new and exciting characters, things that were kept from Wendy are revealed, some awesome and major character developments happen in this one.
*sigh*But the biggest development that I really enjoyed was the new character Loki….
*sigh Loki* this new character add a whole set of drama and excitement.
I love how the author made me want to switch sides.
I wanted Finn but I kept silently rooting for Loki.Overall I really enjoyed this middle book, I was a bit nervous thinking it might have “middle book syndrome” which it does NOT.
The beginning actually wasn’t bad; Wendy was kidnapped by the Vittra and I actually thought the whole book was going to be like this, but no.
Don’t just have pointless, repetitive conversations just to make it novel length!
Speaking of pointless, repetitive conversations, the info dumps annoyed the hell out of me.
And for some reason, after every conversation or event, Wendy would feel the need to repeat exactly what happened over again, once again, to what, add page length?
At the beginning of the first book, I actually kind of like Wendy because she was so refreshing.
I wasn't expecting to be as blown away as I was but I ended up loving it from the beautiful cover to the heartbreaking end.From the very first page, I already knew I was going to lose sleep reading this book!
We also get to learn more about the Trylle lore, with its beautiful and magical trolls that are separated into two quarreling kingdoms (both of which have automatically made it onto my list of Fictional Places I Want To Live In).In the first book, Wendy was only discovering her Trylle heritage and she was admittedly a little childish with her actions.
The lore is original and enchanting, the romance is sweet and heartbreaking, and Wendy's sacrifices will tear you apart.
⋰⋱⋰⋱⋰⋱*Not working for me anymore*⋰⋱⋰⋱⋰⋱ This review is purely for me and might contain spoilers and facts from the book to keep myself in the known at all time. It's also very long and somewhat detailed.  Second re-read: 03.06.2018 We're back with Wendy Luella Everly (17) who, just weeks ago, found out she's a changeling switched at birth. The time schedule from first book to now is about a month; in book one, it was four months until Wendy turns 18, now it's three. The the timeline is quite s
“A Queen is many things, but alone is never one of them.” She held the brush, poised right above the canvas as if she meant to paint, but she didn’t.
Other characters:I've put these in a spoilers tag simply because it's a long list; contains spoilers.(view spoiler)[↦ Finn Holmes (20), a Trylle and a tracker; it’s his job.
(hide spoiler)]↦ Elora Dahl (39, but looks in her fifties), Wendy's real mother.
(hide spoiler)]↦ Oren, the Vittra King.
We find out that Oren is Wendy's father.↦ Jen and Kyra, Vittra trackers.
Like Wendy, he is half Vittra and half Trylle.
There's a lot of politics and romances, I mean big major POLITICS AND ROMANCES...and Tove.....I don't know what to say...thank God you're damn foxy!
Wendy Everly has just found out that she is the heir to the throne of Förening, a Trylle (troll) enclave in Minnesota, hidden from human eyes unless those humans are taken there, or invited in.Angry with her mother, cold Queen Elora, for imposing tough restrictions on her—including driving away Finn, her bodyguard/boyfriend of a few days—Wendy runs away, as seventeen-year-olds often do.
Soon Finn and his colleague Duncan arrive to rescue the three captives, and they successfully escape, helped by Loki for unclear reasons…Back in Förening, Tove, the Trylle boy with the great psychokinetic powers, resumes training Wendy in her own power of Jedi mind tricks persuasion.
The only things I didn't like we're Finn (his entire character - grr), and the ending was a bit anticlimactic in my opinion.Wendy was so much more tolerable in this book.
Honest......Other than the little love triangle, I liked the character development for some of the side characters.
I've been really craving some fantasy and even though this isn't strictly a fantasy book since its set in a little troll community in the modern US, it reads a lot more like a fantasy than Switched with the monarchs and a bit of royal politics.
Unfortunately,  Torn  is even worse than the first, lacking in many of the things  Switched  had to offer. It's really hard to get into a book when the main character insists and refuses to do anything in any way but her own. And the similarities to Richelle Mead's Vampire Academy series? Maybe Amanda Hocking didn't mean for that to happen, or for anyone to be aware of it, but I tend to pick up on the littlest of things. We'll start off with the whole "I love my mentor but he won't love me back
Maybe Amanda Hocking didn't mean for that to happen, or for anyone to be aware of it, but I tend to pick up on the littlest of things.
We'll start off with the whole "I love my mentor but he won't love me back thing" we have going on here.
A certain Rose and Dimitri, perhaps?
And Loki reminds me of Adrian, despite how much I try to deny it.
Which again brings me back to Dimitri, Rose, and Adrian.
For the sake of this series, I hope the last book can surprise me in some way, shape, or form.
blog*** Torn by Amanda HockingBook Two of the Trylle seriesPublisher: St. Martin's GriffinPublication Date: February 28, 2012Rating: 4 starsSource: Review copy sent by the publisherSummary (from Goodreads):When Wendy Everly first discovers the truth about herself—that she’s a changeling switched at birth—she knows her life will never be the same.
But that means walking away from Finn, her handsome bodyguard who’s strictly off limits…and Loki, a Vittra prince with whom she shares a growing attraction.Torn between her heart and her people, between love and duty, Wendy must decide her fate.
For most of the book Wendy is focused on three people: her mother, Finn and Loki, since we are seeing things through her eyes, so supporting characters like Matt, Tove and Willa etc become very flat and one dimensional, lacking in personality.I also didn't expect to get so angry with a fictional character when I started reading Torn.
But it turns out I found Wendy Everly, the 'heroine' of the story, is so weak, selfish, impulsive and immature a character that whatever good things the book could have offered are outweighed by her, no kidding.Plus I can't think of anything else which may be as endangering to the Trylle community as putting Wendy on the throne.
We know she thinks that she's pretty, she is very powerful, and she wants to marry for love.
Wendy did develop as a strong female character who is kind and cares about people.
The idea that a lot of men would be attracted to royalty isn't a stretch, but Finn doesn't want her because she's royalty and Loki couldn't care less.
I like the way that Hocking makes it so you aren't sure what side Loki is on.
Elora is the most complex character in the whole book and that isn't saying a whole lot.
Loki <3 Loki <3 Loki <3 The time for swooning has finally arrived!!I love him,I love him so much <3W
clearly a second in a trilogy. a lot of "getting there" stuff. nice to see people actually telling Wendy things she needs to know.forgot to mention: super psyched that there's a gay character!
Seriously, that was crap. Why the girl fell in love with Finn (He was all over the first book) and then she’s interested in another guy??? And on top of all married to the third guy?Waste of time!! ￼
An amazing sequel and LOKI my love!
You could call it an obsession.In this paranormal tale, Wendy learns at the age of seventeen that she is a troll.
I guarantee that you have not read a series quite like this before.Plain and simple – Wendy rocks!
Wendy has more boy trolls after her than she keep track of.
Amanda Hocking has written some of the most epic battle scenes ever.
They were so real that I could FEEL them.This series about trolls surprised and entertained me.
I will definitely be looking for more Amanda Hocking books to read.RATING5 LovedCOVER COMMENTSI like how the covers are so similar and work together to tell the story.
Also a mysterious, handsome Vittra, Loki is not what he appears to be and Wendy cannot come to terms with why she wants to protect him and what exactly she feels for him.
Surely she’s in love with Finn isn’t she?Wendy realizes that she can’t return to her original life and seeks out to change things around her to fit her taste – especially the unfairly old Monarchy that everyone must abide with.Amanda Hocking has created new atmospheres which were non-existent and the World of Trolls unravels innovative mysteries keeping the reader intrigued into the story.A lovely twist entwining secrets and upcoming events that untangle and reveal thrilling and captivating ideas that leave you imploring to read Ascend, the final chapter of the Trylle Trilogy.Overall an enjoyable read however sometimes I feel at times that Wendy’s love is forced and her actions contradict her personality and what she is expected to do.
I'm now solidly immersed within the world of the Trylle and eager to witness Wendy's humble rise to Queendom.
With the exception of my disdain for all the "adults" in this story, and my hair pulling frustration at the gutless wonder that is Finn (this guy...ARGGGHHH!!!), I truly grew to love most of the characters in this story.
Considering my negative reactions to Finn and his "duty comes above all else" bullshit, it is no wonder that the introduction of Loki, the cocky and dashing Vittra Markis (Prince of the Trylle enemy), stole my heart.
I'm shipping him and Wendy and I'm shipping them HARD!
I know I do: At seventeen, I lay the wrong way on an old sofa in a darkened theatre inches away from a boy I loved so fiercely feelings pulsed between us like a living thing, an abyss so powerful we dared not move or speak its name.
For Wendy Everly, the Trylle changeling heroine of Amanda Hocking's latest novel Torn, there is actual magic involved as she begins to master both her stubborn temper and her gifts of persuasion, telekenesis, and a few nifty new ones that make their presence known for the first time.
I think this is the best book in the series even though Wendy does annoy me at times with how fast she switches between guys.The series does keep getting better and better and you can tell how the author's writing is maturing in the fantasy genre.
No. Especially how Wendy acted.The Good- There was a lot more plot development than the last book.
The first book, Switched, consisted mainly of Wendy just learning to be a Princess, and it got a little boring.
They're still not the good guys, but I can see their reasons.The Bad- The ending felt a little abrupt.
Honestly, I prefer Loki and Wendy over Finn and Wendy right now.The Characters- Wendy was a big part of why I didn't like this book that much.
I hope she continues to get better like this in the third book.- Finn barely develops in this book.

This one I picked up due to her rather large following on Amazon, and I read her blog one day only to discover a curiosity of her work.
I read both this and the first volume of the Trylle Trilogy (Switched) in just over a week and a half.These are a self-published book and it shows in places.
The history, characters and world Ms. Hocking has created is what stands head and shoulders above so many paranormal romance features out these days.
Fast-moving and full of depth, this series will hook you and draw you into the world of the Trylle faster than you will realize.
Wendy is a lot more accepting of her role as Princess, and I again feel that realness with her; she's stubborn and irritating at times, but she says what she feels and I couldn't help agreeing with her a lot of the time and thinking that if I suddenly realised I was royalty in a completely different species, I would probably act this way too.There's a love triangle with Finn, her tracker, and Loki, a powerful enemy from the Vittra community, aka the bad guys.
I thought I was Team Finn, but I think I have to cross over to Loki territory.
This series is quite simplistic, but there's entertainment in the simplicity and I'm looking forward to the finale in this trilogy.
You meet Loki! He may be a Vittra(spelling???? Book isn't in front of me), but that doesn't mean all of them are bad. It shows a different side to them and you just learn more about them. The drama that happens between Finn and Wendy isn't the best, but it shows more of the fact that Finn wants to try an stop whatever's going on between them. Rhys meets Matt and it isn't the best relationship at first until they start hanging out, causing Matt to realize he really is his brother.
“No!” I shouted with tears streaming down my face. “I hate that you do this me. I hate how crazy you make me. I hate you!” - Wendy to FinnYeah. That right there is a summary of the entire book. Oh, and Elora's dying.
