https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10600242-how-to-be-a-woman
There's a lot to enjoy in Moran's book and some very funny moments but overall, it felt like a failed experiment to me, one that failed to scratch beyond the surface of modern day feminism in a way that would truly bring about the discussions we need.
Keep in mind that all this, on top of the use of the word "retard", is present in a book where Moran writes an otherwise accurate piece on the harmful and emotional power of words such as "fat".
(This is in Caps not because I am trying some postmodern thing, emulating Caitlin Moran, but because the antithesis of this point makes me grind my teeth in fury.) I do not believe in any of this "oh you shouldn't be published if you're a teenager" and "everything teenagers write is crap" bullshit.
1. I am confounded by the critical response.
Confounded.2.
The book is indeed very funny and has its charms but this is far more memoir than manifesto and very grounded in a rather singular set of experiences.3.
Good humor doesn't elevate common sense wisdom into groundbreaking or important feminist thought.4.
Casual racism!
Or twice!5.
Birthing babies makes you a woman, you see.
But that's followed by a chapter where it's totes okay if you choose not to have a baby.6.
People are being REALLY selective when sharing quotations from this book.
7. Frustrating book in every possible way.8.
iiiiiiii looooooved thiiiiis sooooooo muuuuuuuchhhh omgggggggg.No but really. It's the thing everyone says, but this book is full of so many "omg! i feel that way too!" over and over and over again. I felt so understood and so together with Caitlin Moran and was so thankful to have this collection of frank and honest thoughts on being a lady today. Some people might even use the word "empowering".
If you have even slight feminist beliefs, or if you are a woman who wants your eyes opened, sensibilities shocked, and then laugh your ass off, this is the book. I read Bossypants, which I love, but Caitlin Moran's strong feminist words were so inspiring to me, and just MADE SENSE. I might not have agreed with everything, but I was certainly amused and entertained the whole time. Definitely an auto-biography worth reading, dude or gal! And it's really dirty in parts, she talks about things you NEVER thought people would bring up. Too good!
.
My best guess is to be Caitlin Moran-sized is fine; to be, say, Melissa McCarthy-sized or Victoria Beckham-sized is not.In any case, she is replacing one set of body image standards with another which defeats the very purpose of her proclamations.There are also multiple attempts at third-world-culture shaming.
"...one misguidedly thinking that (Katie) Price is a good businesswoman - despite the fact that she has to rope her kids into her business to make money: something I always associate with desperate Third World families.."
The main reason is that instead of a funny feminist manifesto, the book is basically a memoir that should have been titled How to Be Caitlin Moran.
Other than the chapter I Am a Feminist!, there's surprisingly little feminism in the book other than sprinkling the term "strident feminist" in some seemingly incongruous places (such as "But what am I wearing, now?
Even women who say they're not feminists are enjoying the fruits of feminism as there was a time when a woman wasn't allowed to have an opinion, let alone express it.
Has an appalling case of unpacked privilege. Dropping "tranny" and "retard" in this book is just the tip of her shitty iceberg.Newsflash: feminism that doesn't advocate for ALL women is no better than patriarchy.
Rather than harp on the theoretical implications of modern feminism, Moran skips the arguments and says simply, “Feminism is having a vagina and wanting to be in charge of it.” Ding ding!She manages to address the horrors of childbirth and the joys of parenting, the conundrum of naming of vaginas, and the unnecessary discomfort of women hiring domestic help – all with a deft hand and abundant use of italics.
Read this book now, then give it away.“No one has ever claimed for a moment that childless men have missed out on a vital aspect of their existence, and were the poorer, and crippled by it.
They all seem to have managed [childlessness] quite well.”
I have laughed out loud in too many public places reading this perfect book that ALL women need to read and all men too. My reoccuring thought throughout reading was: It's not just me that thinks this way! In little over 300 pages this book has made my confidence sky rocket.This book takes you by the shoulders and shakes you like a best friend to remind you how important you are being exactly who you are with your saggy, flabby, wrinkly bits included too. Caitlin Moran - I demand MORE!...
After following Caitlin Moran on Twitter for a couple of years now I thought it was eventually time to read one of her books.
Moran's witty, truthful, and journalistic prose makes reading this memoir a treat.
A big feminist treat.
Like Simone de Beauvoir belting a rendition of Beyoncé's Freakum Dress while riding on the back of an all-fours Jeanette Winterson.
Her unparalleled attitude and "oops did I seriously just write that" approach reminds me of Lena Dunham's other touchstone feminist work "Not That Kind of Girl".
This is an equally wonderful work.2014 was the year of the feminist.
More like this please!
Everyone--men and women--should read this. I'm a dude and I didn't, like, grow a vagina or anything. So it's safe.
I feel like that’s saying, ”You should be able to leave your car unlocked with the keys in the ignition, or leave your front door unlocked, and expect nobody to burgle you.”C: Yes. It’s on that basis that I don’t wear high heels – other than I can’t walk in them – because when I’m lying in bed at night with my husband, I know there’s a woman coming who I could rape and murder, because I can hear her coming up the street in high heels, clack-clack -clack.
Militant feminists can be a minefield, making you feel like an enemy to your gender for wearing kitten heels, or for refusing to wear kitten heels.
This brand of feminism is fine with you wearing kitten heels, or with you refusing to wear kitten heels, so long as you made the decision for your own happiness, and not to satisfy the happiness of others.
This brand of feminism makes it clear that healthy women love men, even if they don't love love men.
These are the feminists who make you happy to get up on a chair and shout "I am a strident feminist!" with.Plus, this book made me snort-laugh a few times.
Indeed I find her so relatable, and am so envious of her abilities as a comic stylist, that I feel almost personally affronted when people criticise her – as many people have done, because How to be a Woman marked the first time she was pushed in the US and found a readership there, and she subsequently came under analysis from a lot of very earnest feminist bloggers who were disappointed when she deviated from each individual writer's idea of correct dogma.But this is not an academic text, it's a memoir with a mission, and she is always ready to drop politics momentarily for the sake of a good gag.
It's pretty bad.The thought of this book serving as anyone's introduction to feminism horrifies me.Let's start with Moran's take on a subject near and dear to my heart, women's history:Even the most ardent feminist historian...can't conceal that women have basically done fuck-all for the last 100,000 years.
Let's stop exhaustively pretending that there is a parallel history of women being victorious and creative, on an equal with men, that's just been comprehensively covered up by The Man. There isn't.This really pisses me off for a couple of reasons.
"When the subject turns to abortion, cosmetic intervention, birth, motherhood, sex, love, work, misogyny, fear, or just how you feel in your own skin, women still often won't tell the truth to each other unless they are very, very drunk."  Caitlin Moran is right. Nowadays, you DO have to be drunk. The last time I heard a female friend relate anything even remotely personal was when L. had too much wine at book club and really tore into her deadbeat ex-husband. (Seriously, you earn $98,000 a yea
"When the subject turns to abortion, cosmetic intervention, birth, motherhood, sex, love, work, misogyny, fear, or just how you feel in your own skin, women still often won't tell the truth to each other unless they are very, very drunk."
Thirty years have slipped by, and I've yet to find another group of women to whom I can say ANYTHING and not be judged.
Why does no one want to go there?Well, Ms. Moran GOES THERE.
Not everyone will like her, or her book.
If you're like me, you'll love it.Being a woman .
after all these years, I'm pretty sure I've been doing it right.
There's a story that is told in women's history circles, about the classic assignment to go interview your grandmother, and how everyone comes back, convinced that their grandmother was a "feminist," whether or not their grandmother would have agreed with that assessment.
Everyone's grandmother seems to be more opinionated, stronger, and more capable than they were expecting, and that translates in their heads, into "feminist."Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the recent changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
Yes, I may have a lot of privilege, enough that I was able to take an "Introduction to Women's Studies" course last year at my university.But so does frickin' Caitlin Moran.And that does NOT make it okay for her to publish a book MARKETED AS AN INTRODUCTORY GUIDE TO FEMINISM that freely uses hate speech, inserts homophobic remarks, promotes an ableist mentality, and ignores general research to avoid making idiotic generalizations on an individual's sexual orientation.The last time I checked feminism was about inclusion.
Part memoir, part rant, this is my second Moran read and yet again she's left me feeling inspired and empowered, determined to be just a little bit better at being me.
Two caveats:One: At times, Moran misses the opportunity to connect the feminist needs and experiences of hetero women to the feminist needs and experiences of GLBTQAI, minority communities, and other groups of people to whom the female experience is infinitely parallel.Two: I straight-up disagree with her on at least two major points.
And I spend a LOT of time thinking about these things.
But in general, this book had a great balance of anecdote and analysis, alternating milk-out-your-nose-funny stories of booze and underpants with cogent analyses of the current Western State of Affairs.
A great read.
I remember seeing the cover of this book and wondering: Who is this Caitlin Moran person, and why should I care about her being a woman?Well it turns out she is quite a big deal in the UK, where she wrote a novel at 15, became a music journalist for the weekly Melody Maker at 16 and briefly hosted a Channel 4 pop culture show called Naked City at 18 before embarking on a long career as a TV critic and satirical columnist for The Times.In fact, while visiting the UK last fall, I saw one of her columns in that paper (I think I only read real newspapers when I’m visiting somewhere else) and thought: Aha!
I have another book by her - a gift, also - and I'm so afraid to read it now, because part of the reason it took me like a week to read this was the writing style.
I couldn't bring myself to DNF this because I was interested in most of the things she said but it was so hard to get through the narration.I wasn't agreeing with her on so many points I stopped reading this as a feminist novel and tried to, at least, enjoy the humor.
Part memoir, part rant, Caitlin Moran answers these questions and more in How To Be A Woman – following her from her terrible 13th birthday (‘I am 13 stone, have no friends, and boys throw gravel at me when they see me’) through adolescence, the workplace, strip-clubs, love, fat, abortion, TopShop, motherhood and beyond.
Be happy in yourself and women stop falling for the lies the world tells us about what it is to be a woman - and as a result, start having a good time.
To not care about all those supposed 'problems' of being a woman.
Reading around the Internet, I think a lot of people have been disappointed by this book because they weren't familiar with Moran's other work and were expecting it to be a fully-formed feminist manifesto and, having seen a lot of the promotional material for the book, I don't really blame them.This book is a kind of humorous semi-memoir sprinkled with generous helpings of Moran's opinions on what it is to be a woman, which has a feminist slant.A bit of a non-specific description that, wasn't it?
but it suffers a bit from not knowing what it wants to be.It's not quite funny enough to be a comedy, not serious enough to be a manifesto and not consistently delving enough to be a memoir (although the chapters on having children...
I thought I had manufactured this relationship because of the distance between us, but reading Moran's accounting of an imaginary relationship she had with a man who shared her flat and her speculations as to why women are so skilled at this kind of mental romance was quite thought provoking for me.It was when she started talking about shoes, however, that the visceral, yeah we still got a ways to go on that feminism front hit me in the gut.
★ true rating: 3.5 stars ★ This book is hilarious, raunchy and intelligent.
Do I agree with every opinion Ms. Moran has on "how to be a woman" not so much...but that is not the point.
The point is as a woman -no as a person she has the right to believe, write and say whatever the hell she wants, and thinks you should be able to as well!
Now that is the point of feminism if you ask me and the real message of this book: Be your true self and try to be respectful of others in the process.
Truly funny book. Will sure to read it again.
Some chapters are more successful than others and so I will run through these responses chapter by chapter as it's a more specific way of reviewing the book:Chapter 1 'I start bleeding' - Caitlin makes a very good point about how it's the crass and desultory joylessness of online pornography that is problematic, and how porn informs and distorts sex education for young people.Chapter 2 'I become furry' - Some interesting insights into how pornography has made the "Brazilian" standard for modern women.
Everyone should read it.Chapter 7 'I encounter some sexism' - Another great chapter with interesting and original points, and plenty of funny stuff too.
