https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12497.No_Country_for_Old_Men
So are we gonna talk about No Country For Old Men, he said.Why not, she replied.Then we gotta do it like McCarthy, he said.
But I can't do Southern.You can try.Well then I caint.
But I aint got his ear.
He's got the best ear for dialect this side of Mark Twain.He's got a mighty fine ear, that's for sure.Well like I said I loved the language.
But I dont think Chigurh is Death.
Maybe he aint no more than what he looks like.
But I caint put it in words.I dont think this conversation is goin noplace, he said.
When Chigurh’s actions grow too much for the men who sent him they hire the savvy Carson Wells to stop him and recover the money.An unsuspecting reader unfamiliar with the story or McCarthy’s work might expect this to be simply a crime novel, and that’s how a good chunk of the story plays at first.
What really worries Bell is that it seems like water is rising, and a lot of people seem willing to dive in so he's pretty well convinced that the entire world is sliding into hell.That’s why I consider this a next level book.
Stechschute's reading is spot-on, particularly his portrayal of one of the main characters, a good old boy by the name of Sherriff Bell.Since there are many reviews posted, in the spirit of freshness, I'd like to share a few reflections of a philosophical nature.
Having had an experience of life-and-death intensity in Viet Nam, Moss knows the feeling well.Anton Chigurh, also a Viet Nam veteran, is the man from the drug world who comes after Moss.
In the course of this McCarthy novel, Chigurh kills men and women left and right.Sheriff Bell is a World War II veteran who sees his county losing its moral glue.
(With few exceptions – he did a New York Times interview in 1992 and sat down with Oprah Winfrey last June.)I saw him at the Oscars on Sunday, just a face in the crowd gathered in the three-story lobby of the Kodak Theatre before the show, where champagne flutes were being clinked by the beautiful horde in anticipation of the big night.Of course, the Coen brothers' adaptation of No Country For Old Men was up for many of the top prizes, and that is why McCarthy was making this rare public appearance.
Bell is precisely how he was portrayed in the film: tired, old, jaded.
The writing is typically devoid of quotation marks but full of wonderful descriptions:"It was a big redtail...Any small thing might venture to cross.
Small things.
233)Moss never asks for help and yet throws himself into what he knows is a deadend quest - for a goal he is not even aware of, other than knowing that he will never reach it.The last time we see Chigurh with Carla Jean, he again leaves her fate to the toss of a coin:"I only have one way to live.
Like Judge Holden and Glanton in Blood Meridian, or the Evening Redness in the West, Chigurh is intelligent, resourceful and utterly devoted to violence and chaos.
Yet, like the antagonists in Blood Meridian, McCarthy has imbued in Chigurh a strange integrity, a devotion to a natural order that I think is McCarthy's embodied illustration of evil - a man cut off and separated from the love of man or God. McCarthy's lean, muscular narrative style is in masterful form for this dialogue on good and evil, and like other McCarthy novels, he pays no mind to popular ideals of what a story should say or do.
You reckon I outta read more of his books.
I don’t know why I love this book so much.
I surely dont.
Read it bout three times now.
Dont ever seem to get old does it sheriff.
Books got an old west flavor to it with a contemporary tone all at the same time.
Sometimes I like to pour a cup of lukewarm black coffee into a styrofoam cup and watch that movie.
It aint a feel good story or nothin.It surely aint.
Should you read this book.
Should you watch the movie.You should.
There aint many books out there written as good as this one.
A taut thriller with crisp, naturalistic dialogue, this book refuses to avert its eyes from the darkness. Perhaps I'm rating this a bit low, but--considering the author's reputation--I expected more. Besides, I liked the movie better.
Well, if you saw the Oscar-winning film, you pretty much got the gist. This is an examination of evil at its most primitive level, in which lawlessness, even in the modern world, reigns over conscience, reason & morality. Chigurh is the prototypical Boogeyman: a walking, talking Michael Myers (c.a. 1978 by Carpenter) that is not immortal, though the concept of him will rule all the ages, prevailing like a force of nature. Powerful stuff, emotional & heartless at the same time, & of course, written in precise, minimalist prose.
The sentences hit you like machine-gun fire.If you stick with the novel, after some time, you get accustomed to the style; it loses its annoyance potential, and the real story starts coming through.For this is not the story of Moss, or of Anton Chigurh; but of Sheriff Bell, and the country he is a symbol of.
We get to know this only towards the very end, after the whole affair of Moss and Chigurh is over and done with: then the story suddenly falls into focus, and the philosophical interludes of the sheriff interspersed throughout the novel with the main narrative starts to make perfect sense.
4.5 to 5.0 stars. First, a pre-emptive apology...this is my first Cormac McCarthy novel and so my gush of praise may be a tad too CAPTAIN KIRKISH in its melodramatic over the top-ness, so please forgive me. I will attempt to keep my giddiness to a minimum...but man can this guy write a novel!!! I will start by saying without trying to sound overly stuffy or pretentious that I thought this was a brilliant, nuanced, multi-layered story that was told in extremely simple, straight-forward prose yet

FILOSOFIA DELLA GIUSTIZIA I tre protagonisti del film diretto dai fratelli Coen.
Trovo Bardem così insopportabile che non sono riuscito a godere il film, che pure portò a casa ben quattro Oscar, tra cui quello sprecato proprio a Bardem.Si legge con gran facilità, con inconsueta scorrevolezza.
Josh Brolin, uno dei tre protagonisti del film del 2007.Manca la natura, solitamente grande protagonista nell’opera di McCarthy, assenza che pesa.
Anton Chigurh is probably the most heartless villain ever written (if you can think of one worse, tell me!), and is hot on his trail in this vicious game of cat and mouse.
None of it.Sheriff Bell is always a few steps behind, and is the source of all interiority in the book.
The author speckles the Sheriff's thoughts throughout the book, in short, italicised chapters.
The story occurs in the vicinity of the United States–Mexico border in 1980 and concerns an illegal drug deal gone awry in the Texas desert back country.The plot (of the book, rather than the film) follows the interweaving paths of the three central characters (Llewelyn Moss, Anton Chigurh, and Ed Tom Bell) set in motion by events related to a drug deal gone bad near the Mexican–American border in remote Terrell County in southwest Texas.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز دوازدهم ماه دسامبر سال 2012 میلادیعنوان: جایی برای پیرمردها نیست؛ نویسنده: کورمک مکارتی؛ مترجم: امیر احمدی آریان؛ تهران، نشر چشمه، 1387، در 285 ص؛ شابک: 9789643626006؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان امریکایی - سده 21 مداستان درباره ی پسر جوان جوشکاری ست، که روزی برای شکار، به کوه میرود، و آنجا شاهد یک صحنه ی بجا مانده از درگیری، در حین داد و ستد مواد مخدر میشود.
Wanting to give up...Refusing to give up...Not knowing the meaning of giving up.When drugs and money come to a small Texas town, sheriff-about-to-retire trope Ed Tom Bell is tasked with solving a deal gone murderously wrong.
This is indeed No Country for Old Men. A psychopath of a hitman, Anton Chigurh (that last name being pronounced cheekily similar to "sugar,") is making Bell's last days as sheriff a living hell.
McCarthy's austere style may not set well with all readers - he doesn't fuck around with flowery words much - however, the spartan prose marches soldierly ahead, pressing the story on, delivering to the reader a tale victoriously told.
When I was reading this book I began noticing how much the killings in it reminded me of the bible.
The murderer in McCarthy’s book does the same thing, he kills innocent people, but he is a psychopathic killer.
Did God look into the eyes of those he had killed?
Moss, the main character in this book, lives in a Texas desert town with his wife, and he loves hunting antelopes.
Moss went down to check out the dead too many times.
Maybe He didn’t even look into his eyes to know his suffering.
The novel is written in the simple prose a gifted but alienated teenager might adopt.
The baddie delivers a speech about why he has to kill this innocent girl and it's as if lights were suddenly thrown on to reveal all the clever and wondrous design of the novel which had been taking place in the dark.
It becomes a kind of fable about the pathways of life and the nature of bad luck.
From that moment on it was it was a fantastic and moving read with an especially goosebumping emphasis on the consoling and restorative beauty of human relationships.
The only bulwark we have against all the bad luck waiting in the wings out there.
Saw the movie, read the book afterwards to fully understand the story. Fascinating story. Great writing. I'm have become a huge fan of Cormac McCarthy! Grand writer.
No I particular aint.Don’t look like it to me.
Likely cant be done no other way.
Rayner moved the barrel three inches sideways and put a cartridge into its brains.
Aint sayin.Well, it might could be emphasisin a point here.
Which you don’t seem to of got.Well, all right.
I knows you done it first.You shouldna kindly stole it.
He studied the next name on the list then threw the Dodge into gear.*****With apologies to my old GR friend Manny Rayner, who I firmly believe would never shoot a dog just to emphasise a point.
I understand the comparisons being made between the film and the book.
The main personificiation of this danger, Anton Chigurh, is one of the most legendary villains I've come across.
2. Pacing: While this is a book where you wonder what will happen next, it doesn't give you much time for doing that.
And everyone else gloriously in between, with their little views and wisdoms.Speaking of wisdoms: The Bell-monologues are what really gave this book the extra touch for me.
There are things that Bell possesses that Chigurh can never put a hole in.
Elevating and Transcending Genre: McCarthy and 'Existentialist Crime' [WARNING: Here there be spoilers.]Another world unrolled like a carpet of dry, golden plains when I started reading 'No Country for Old Men'; the prose was vivid, but every word was a careful expenditure of idea and style. Cormac McCarthy is not an overly descriptive writer. But the antelope hunt in Southwest Texas that leads Llewelyn Moss to the bullet-riddled cars and corpses of the silent cartel battlefield is told with ab
But if 'NCfOM' is a 'crime novel', and it is, McCarthy not only matches the genre's previous high water marks, but with 'No Country For Old Men', he floods the deep-carved banks of the Genre's narrative current with all the force of a million-year old glacial dam's final collapse, ice-cold waters turning parallel genre streams into a mega-river before spilling into an impossible system of ancient and carefully engineered locks, dams and channels, flowing to feed into the archetypal ocean of human knowledge.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/No Country For Old Men has an unprecedented FOUR POINT THREE TWO rating amongst my Goodreads friends so what’s even left to say at this point? Allow me a moment to let the book speak for itself . . . .  “Do you love it? I guess you could say I do. But I’d be the first one to tell you I’m as ignorant as a box of rocks so you sure don’t want to go by nothing I’d say.”  The story here is of Llewellyn Moss, a single-wide dwelling welder li
Rather than leaving what was most definitely not well enough alone, Llewellyn takes the money before thinking things through, marking him as target numero uno for the baddest mahfah you ever don’t want to meet, Anton Chigurh.
Entwined amongst this storyline is that of Sheriff Bell, an old timer who has watched his corner of world deteriorate over the years due to the narcotics trade.I don’t know how to “sell” a Cormac McCarthy so I’m not even going to bother.
Book number something or other in the Library’s “Read to Reel” Winter Reading Challenge["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
Moss takes the money and quickly ends up a wanted man.
Can Moss survive long enough to enjoy the money?This was my first McCarthy book and probably won't be the last.
A recurring theme through the novel is choices, how one's choices make them who they are.I wanted to give this five stars but I couldn't for two reasons.
I don't want to spoil things but a pretty important character dies like a chump and does it off screen, making the previous 200+ pages seem like a bit of a waste.All in all, No Country for Old Men was a good read, especially for those who like a good pulpy crime story.
I appreciate the nuances of a McCarthy novel: his voice, the settings, the very real characters he conjures within that mind of his.
He paints with his words a world fully realized; even with a sparse writing style (in most of his books) readers are subjected to a canvas that is multilayered, complex, and unique.
If you've seen the Coen brothers movie of this novel you already know how creepy Anton Chigurh is; the book paints him much creepier.
Read the book.
Then go out and read the rest of Cormac McCarthy's novels.
I can and will nitpick, but just know that I don't really mean it and it's only because I love you, baby.First thing's first: I saw this movie about a zillion times before I read the book, though I wish, I wish, I wish that I hadn't.
Added to his skill at articulating scenic minutia, I was actually (just like Moss and his buddy, Chigurh) traveling by car, train, and foot in Texas as I read, completed, and proceeded to mull over this book.
Her extended scene with Chigurh was quite telling, as was her Bonnie and Clyde-like resistance to Sheriff Bell's interrogation concerning Moss's whereabouts.
I'm also a bit hesitant when it comes to classics, perhaps from all the years in school of being beaten over the head with them and then forced to analyze the shit out of them.However, I was pleasantly surprised by No Country For Old Men. This book is a fast-paced, bloody chase.
It's a little strange to get used to if you're unfamiliar with this style of writing, but it wasn't much of a distraction.My favorite aspect of this story was the banter between characters.
Some very clever moments had me laughing out loud!The story can come off as a little preachy at times, but it depends on which character you put stock into.
To be honest, I found this a bit irritating.
I also found the ‘home-spun’ philosophy a bit hard to take.
There was not a single character in this book that I would urinate on if they were on fire – their deaths, therefore, were devoid of interest.
I guess this book is Dirty Harry from the darkside.
Same crap, same fascination with guns and the voyeurism caused by the effect bullets have on the human anatomy - I wonder what it is about modern life that eroticises violence so much?People say things like McCarthy is the ‘greatest living writer’ in the US.
It is a compelling, engaging, page turning story – which whilst certainly not reaching the same level of (near) poetic perfection of ‘The Road’ (it’s a completely different kind of novel) – ‘No Country for Old Men’ is a very strong, powerfully written and intriguing novel and the story is never quite what you’d expect.Whilst Anton Chigurh is a great and frightening creation and Llewelyn Moss a solid and empathetic central character – it is Sheriff Ed Tom Bell who is the key to this story, as narrator and one of the main protagonists; it is he who is at the heart of this novel.
‘What’s the most you ever saw lost on a coin toss?’No Country for Old Men joins the illustrious company of books that I've reread and more than deserves its place there, this is simply one of the most intense pieces of fiction I’ve read and narrated by Tom Stechschulte who I now rate as highly as the fantastic Will Patton.There is just so much that makes this story, the dialogue centred around the hitman Chigurh is the highlight for me.
It gave me a good taste of McCarthy and it's been long past time to read more of his work.No Country for Old Men is a chilling story about how bad things have become.
I wanted that scene so bad!But then I got to thinking and for some reason I actually thought Moss had a chance against this lunatic.
Even though McCarthy's been telling me the entire time that things are bad.
I guess that's a good sign, when it's so seamless that I didn't even think to make mention that someone else was reading the words of the book to me.
