https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/417501.Chiefs
This book travels the generations between 1920 and 1963 in a small Georgia town, Prohibition to Camelot. Showing the impact of the outside world while maintaining authenticity in the story over that length of a span makes for a huge challenge. The author succeeded. Finishing the book is saying goodbye to a close friend you may not see again.
An epic that spans 50+ years that is written beautifully. I had a hard time putting this down because of the very realistic characters and the anticipated capture of a serial killer. The narration was spot on and reminded me a bit of my favorite, George Guidall. I won't reiterate the plot of the story, suffice to say I highly recommend this book to anyone that likes epics with a mystery background mixed with a bit of history. Adding this one to my favorites.
For some of my "light" reading over the years I've enjoyed several murder/mystery series.
Stuart Woods has been prolific and poured out over thirty books over the last three decades, and routinely these books are nothing special literature-wise, and I normally give them (and the other murder/mystery series mentioned earlier) three stars.
However, this is Stuart Woods first book --- and it won the Edgar Award (given for crime fiction) --- and I was pleasantly surprised to find it a cut above all the other books he's written that I've read so far.
Many would say his books are far too formulaic.
I saw the TV version first & really liked it, so when I came across the book second hand, I snatched it up. I'm glad I did. As I recall, the TV version was faithful to the novel, but there was so much more to the story. True horror without resulting to the supernatural.
No question that the author's prose is excellent, and I recall the book rather well.
It's probably better to think of it as 3 shorter, interdependent novellas about the lives and tribulations of the people of Delano in the context of an evolving southern culture, as seen through the eyes of three successive police chiefs.
It spans a period of 35-40 years, and, in a sense, it may be better classified as fiction than mystery.
The story is as much about the people and the town, especially the development of its police department.
CHIEFS is probably one of the best mystery novels of all time.
Set in Georgia and covering three seperate periods of time and the careers of thre very different Cheifs of the Delano police Department who all try to solve a string of issing person casing involving young boys.The final Chief stumbles upon the answers and the grisly killer in a shocking and twisted tale of Southern Gothic proportions.
This was the first novel of Stewart Woods' long standing career and still remains his best by far with only a few approaching it's power.
It is followed by several indirect sequesls including GRASS ROOTS.RandyThe date completed I am listing is the most recnt reading as I have read the novel several times over the last 20 years.
Chiefs by Stuart Woods covers the time from 1919 when the town Delano, Georgia appoints their first police chief to 1969 when they appoint the first negro police chief. Two young men are found dead and then over the years many others go missing and the book follows indirectly the investigations by the three very different police chiefs. It focuses mainly on the changes in Southern culture and politics, and the problems related to racial integration. An interesting and captivating story which draws you in so that you don't want to put it down.
The inhabitants of the town are equally well-developed, and while some naturally receive more attention than others, every one of them feels like a real living, breathing person.There’s also much more to this novel than just a simple murder mystery; the chiefs, and the town as a whole, deal with not just murders, or even crime, but the intricate politics of the South as Delano grows in power and influence.
The stories all flow together to create a single coherent, but very multifaceted tale that draws the reader in, and keeps pulling him along.I have very little bad to say about this novel, but I will say that it’s really not much of a murder mystery, in the conventional sense.
Stuart Woods first and favorite book.
Following the creation of Delano in 1920, William Henry is the first police chief which pisses off Foxy Funderburke to no limit and starts a lifelong blood feud with authority and a psycho killer.
William Henry is killed in a cluster fuck shooting and Willie Cole escapes while his father is caught and fried.
The subsequent search, gunfight and excavation reveal the demented Foxy's victims.This book won Woods' a well deserved newest novelist award, and it is a true rock classic.
THIS IS A MUST READ FOR ANY STUART WOODS' FAN.
This debut novel by the prolific author Stuart Woods has been on my reading list since the late 1980’s.
Woods traces the history of racism in the fictional Georgia town of Delano by focusing on the tenures of three defining police chiefs.
Like James Patterson, he became a book factory, churning out formulaic fiction instead of focusing his creativity on crafting opus works.
Had he elected to think big, I believe that he would be regarded in the same strata as A-list novelists such as John Irving, Richard Ford, John Grisham, John Hart and James Lee Burke.
A little “Criminal Minds”-ish. Well-drawn characters. Deals with the sadly timeless topic of racism, although it leaves room for hope. Could be a good book for discussion.
This is a crime story that developes through 30 years and three different generations, but it is not a typical murder mystery. It is more the story of a town and about America growing into a modern country. Exciting and highly recommended
For years I've resisted Stuart Woods. I've always considered him more of a "man's" author and just didn't think I'd enjoy his books. I started "Chiefs" on Wednesday and stayed up verrryyy late on Thursday finishing it. Now I'm hooked!
I recently reread this book.
I definitely think this is Woods’ best work!
It depicts a small fictitious town, Delano, in Georgia from 1919 to 1963.
Starting with the appointment of its first police chief, Will Henry Lee, and follows his family and the citizens of this small town.In this recent reading I found myself highly disturbed by the racism depicted in this book but growing up in the south I realize that it is probably a true depiction of the times.
This book is a far cry from the easy, quick reads of Woods’ current works and still remains one of my favorites.
Outstanding. Surprisingly layered and thoroughly suspenseful. Great picture of the entangled law and politics of the Civil rights era with a serial killer river running through. Really excellent.
Chiefs is a solid crime novel set in Georgia during the 1920's through the early 1960's. It really was a set of three novellas centered around three different chiefs of police in the same small town. Their stories were connected by their individual investigations into a local serial killer. The killer is no mystery and is known from the beginning. What is interesting is how the racism of the characters and the time period plays out in the story and it's effect on the investigation. Clear, concise writing, and a quick read.
Enjoyed reading this book from the very beginning. My first book with this author, and this was his first book over 25 + years ago. Where have I been? Just heard of him recently. Will definitely try another one of his books.
A very good read. Well drawn characters and an engaging plot. I recommend this book.
Wow....excellent story line, excellent character background & development, excellent writing. Really impressed with this book. Five stars, period.
I listened to this book on audio and thoroughly enjoyed. I have read other books about Will Lee and now I know his history. One of my favorites!
Over time, Lee begins to believe that young runaways are disappearing somewhere in his town, murdered by someone who sits in the town's church pews and frequents its shops.The story later leaps forward into the 40s, following Lee's son Billy, an up and coming politician, and Sonny Butts, the returning war hero who becomes police chief.
Murder, the ultimate crime, comes to define their lives and give its own order.In the end, Holmes is heart broken at the prospect that the town he has nurtured for half a century will become "a synonym for perversion and death," but similar realizations happen to many of the characters in "Chiefs." It is this touch, frustrated hopes and ambitions, which gives the novel a heft it might not otherwise carry.
Really good. Grabbed me from the beginning. An interesting story that spans decades of police chiefs before bringing the villain to a just end. Great character development, glimpses into wise counsel, and periodic moments of action which made the whole thing an entertaining read.
And it is a book whose characters and their descendants, as well as the town where this story takes place, are referenced in virtually every book written by Woods since.
I became aware of Stuart Woods as a mystery/thriller author about a year ago when several of his e-books in the Stone Barrington series were offered on sale as a promotion for his latest book.
It is also the story of the effects that a homegrown serial killer has on the townspeople over the span of these same 44 years, at a time in American history when the normal citizen had virtually no knowledge that serial killers and sexual predators even existed.
Even now, it is difficult to believe that these history-altering events were taking place while I lived and breathed without comprehending their significance.Published in 1981, "Chiefs" won the Edgar Award for a first novel and launched the career of Stuart Woods.
Using the small southern town of Delano, Georgia, and the efforts of three police chiefs to solve a murder and a series of disappearances, Woods weaves the tale around the politics, racial tensions and changes in society over forty years.
The three parts of the story, one for each successive police chief, are unhurried.
But Chiefs has a gravitas lacking in his/her stories.
I will keep reading his stories as long as he pumps them out!!!!10-2013 Book on tape.
At the end of the book, my response was: Oh my, that was a wonderful story." For one thing, it didn't start out " Elaine's, late.
Stone Barrington sat at a very good table …." I have read 35 Stuart Woods books, of which 5 received 5 stars from me.
I don't rate many books 5 stars.
Many of the characters are are quite engaging, ones you want to keep reading about in other stories.Fortunately, you can.
Three connected stories about a little town in Georgia called Delano.
I guess this was a limited hardback release back in '81 and was issued in paperback in 2005 as Wood's career was really starting to take off.
The first 1/3 starts a little slow, but by the time you get into the second and third stories we are on a fun roller coaster.
It is fascinating to me to read this and then try to understand how Stuart Woods has evolved into the writer I know him as today.
I will read anything Stuart Woods writes.
For the most part, I find his work to be light and entertaining, and yes, formulaic.
This book, which appears to be his first novel, is strikingly different.
To start with, it's long; there are three sections, each of which would equal one of his later works.
But the biggest difference is the level of detail Woods creates here.
"Chiefs" gets my vote as the best thing Woods has written, and it better than most anything I've read in the past year.
But, Will Henry Lee, the newly appointed first Chief of Police for the small town of Delano, Georgia suspects that the boy endured a ritual beating before he died.
This crime begins the story that weaves through the subsequent years and the careers of three Chiefs.
What is fascinating about this thriller is the passing of time in southern Georgia, with the undercurrent of racial tension, corruption, and political power.
With this different approach to a thriller, I really enjoyed the book -- Woods has managed to create a page-turner thriller at the same time as he raises questions about racism and political corruption.
I was a bit hesitant to read this novel as I had seen the television adaptation when it first ran over 30 years ago and still remembered which character committed the murders.
Overall I found Chiefs to be an excellent read, with vivid, memorable characters (especially Will Lee and Sonny Butts) and a sharp sense of time and place.
It's not perfect - the black characters are far too saintly (a recurring problem in historical fiction about the South) and Mr. Woods is a bit too fond of unlikely coincidences - but I have no hesitation in recommending it.
Chiefs was the first Stuart Woods book, and the first I read, and I was enthralled.
A mystery spanning fifty years, a portrayal of a small Georgia town, it was great.
I've continued reading Woods with, unfortunately, growing disappointment.
His newer books are written by rote, he'll have characters make major, unexplained changes between books - the heroine in one becomes the villain in another - so I've pretty much given up on him.
For a while they were like chocolate bars - quick, easy reads - but the empty calories got to me.
The earlier books, especially this one and Under the Lake, are worth the read though.
