https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20821087-the-paying-guests
After two years of waiting for Sarah Waters' new novel to come out, reading this actually made me want to cry a little.
The problem with this book is that Sarah Waters got famous.
I'm sure some junior editor making 20 grand a year at some London publishing house wasn't about to fire off an email to the great Sarah Waters saying, "Hi S—Just got the feedback from the boys upstairs.
A good third of this book could have been edited out without doing it any harm.Frances Wray lives with her mother in a nice area of London.
She is still friends with Christina who is now living with her female lover, Stevie.Frances gradually falls for Lilian Barber and their friendship and burgeoning romance is the subject of the first and second part of the book.
The book has three parts and it moves very slowly, without much action, until the end of the second part.
I found myself reading and putting the book down over and over again.
but now she is on her own, trying desperately to keep up appearances for the sake of her pride and the comfort of her mother, and the barbers are a necessary evil to be endured.what follows is a difficult period of adjustment, where the boundaries between private and public spaces blur, the most tense and awkward game of snakes & ladders ever is played, the forced intimacy of the lodgers breaks down several different types of barriers, and then something awful, horrible, terrible occurs - one of the most intensely graphic scenes i have ever read which then paves the way for a series of increasingly-precarious situations compromising all of the characters.it's a good thing frances is so good at keeping secrets.sarah waters is just so, so good.
But if any of her previous books are half as compelling and page-turning as The Paying Guest, I have a big treat to look forward to in the near future.To sum it up in three words: it’s a stunner.
Due to the ravages of the first world war, she and her mother are forced to accept lodgers (euphemistically called “paying guests”): a young couple, Leonard and Lilian Barber, of the clerk class.
It's like being permitted a glimpse into a time-capsule…into a society where everything was markedly different than it is today.Exquisitely atmospheric, filled with psychological nuances, and laden with anticipation and suspense, The Paying Guests is a “can’t-put-down” read, told by a consummate storyteller.
A further domestic insult opens the story: the Wrays are forced to take in lodgers, those “paying guests.” Enter stage left: Lilian and Leonard Barber, she blowsy but sweet, he rakish and flirtatious in a way that leaves Frances slightly queasy.
Frances Wray, tucked awkwardly between the end of the Edwardian era and the beginning of the Jazz Age, is stifled by time, culture, and sexual mores that deny her of her very essence.
Look, I can sit here all day and give you bogus reasons why I picked up Sarah Waters’ The Paying Guests.
The Paying Guests is better described as a love story; and at its core, it is rather traditional, a classic love triangle between a man and two women, with one important twist.
Rebecca and The Paying Guests share several similar traits, not the least of which is that I’ve read them both in close relation to each other.
The Paying Guests is a novel about details.
The Paying Guests was the last thing I read in 2014.
I was looking forward to reading it so much, and am so disappointed I didn't like it.Waters' last book, The Little Stranger, is one of my favourite books of all time, although the general consensus is that it is quite different from the rest of her work, and many readers think it is her worst.
But I felt I was meant to like Frances, to want her to 'get her way', and I just didn't.
It even made me question whether I would really like The Little Stranger that much if I re-read it now - maybe my tastes have changed so much I wouldn't?
Sarah Waters wrote Fingersmith and so attained semi-divine status in 2002. I really um and ah about reading anything else by one of my 5-star authors because the only way is down. The last two from SW (The Little Stranger & The Night Watch) never reached out tentacled appendages and bade me read them, but this one did.And I’m in two minds about it, which is almost two whole minds more more than usual. DIALOGUE BETWEEN PB’S TWO MINDS- What have you been doing for the last 3 days? Reading this
I know, I was there.-	But, ermm, I thought that, er, maybe, just maybe, there were things that went on a bit too long and other things that didn’t go on long enough.-	Genius literary criticism worthy of David Foster Wallace!
Try www.sapphicflappers.com-	No but I thought these two lovely characters deserved a bit more of a good time before the Things that I Cannot Mention happened.
What do we think?-	Well, this is why we’re in two minds.-	Ah yes.- Hmmm.- Hmmm.-	Four stars then?-	Well, it can’t be five, because of the meagre amount of sex, and because it surely isn’t as good as the shattering Fingersmith.
So, yes, four stars it is.The two minds converge.
I felt a personal link to this story: in 1922, my Nana, Florence, was the same age as the character, Frances Wray.
Two brothers, George and Edwin served in WWI and during that war; they made a reciprocal promise to each other.
Edwin came home to fulfil his part of the promise; he married Florence, who would become my Nana.
Florence and Edwin kept her four youngest siblings out of an orphanage by electing to bring the children into their home.
This couple will bring monumental change into the house in Champion Street, in ways neither of the Wrays could have predicted.
There is so much to like about this book.
Sarah Waters slowly and exquisitely sets her scene, 1922 London after World War I.
If you enjoy language and prose and leisurely and nuanced writing, you will certainly like Sarah Waters.
It lagged in the middle third of the book – it got repetitive, I felt like Frances and Lilian kept having the same conversations over and over.
The last third was suspenseful but felt artificial.
Waters kept slipping in red herrings to misdirect the reader, but it felt forced.
None of it seemed very likely to me, especially the neatly wrapped-up ending.This is a 3.5 for me.
Part 1: cosy and a bit drab but in an interesting way, like a Barbara Pym novel (hmm, I thought, this is a new side of Sarah Waters)Part 2: SEXY (oh never mind, there she is!)Part 3: brutal, agonizing tension like waiting for medical results or SAT scoresPart 4: (yeah right, like I'm going to spoil the ending for you)
When it does, it’s far headier than anything in Fingersmith, and fingers feature even more prominently throughout, not just in a direct, sensual way: Len has manicures ((view spoiler)[his mistress is a beautician (hide spoiler)]), fingerprints are used in the investigation, and the significance of rings and removing or putting on gloves is never overlooked.Waters based the book on high-profile murder cases of the period, but gave it a twist, by making Frances female.
The world was moving.Here, the world is stuck: it's just after WWI and no one really seems to know where to go or what to do.And for the first half of the book, nothing happens.
No one really has a job (except for Lenny, but Lenny isn't a character as much as some negative space around which to frame the rest of the narrative - there's no point to the weird menace he has at the beginning of the book, no point to the game of strip Snakes and Ladders).
(The drama isn't even really affecting, as it's 3/4ths in Frances' head anyway.)I was bored.
(I believe Champion Hill is an invented location, but Waters makes it completely convincing.) Their guests turn out to be Len and Lil Barber, several steps below the Wrays on the social scale but definitely climbing—Len has a good job, and Lil leads the idle, pointless life of a lower-middle-class wife.
The upper middle classes and those above them are expected to do charity work, and Mrs. Wray still clings to this routine, leaving Frances to do all the housework since they can no longer afford servants.The story gradually builds through the inevitable encounters between the Wrays and the Barbers, mostly due to the fact that you have to pass through the kitchen to get to the toilet.
At no point does France say she wants to raise the baby with Lilian — she just suddenly became conservative and objected to the planned abortion.But my real irritation was with the second half of the book.
Leonard starts bullying Lilian, and she announces that she wants a divorce because she is in love with Frances.
There was also the trope that Frances became suspicious of Lilian, fretting that she would go to the police and try to pin the murder on her, or that she would break down and admit to the accidental killing during one of those times when Frances didn't want to be discovered.
Just wait patiently until it hits the shelves (or do what I did: stew about it and figure out a way to get a copy early and fast).
). I've checked out the reviews, and there are a few gals who seem to be spoiler-buttoned-challenged and I would just hate for you to read something you shouldn't.
Here are some general feelings on this book:Such a way with words!
It was almost like two books in one.
I loved it all, but the 'first book' was just heaven (Delee, you'll feel the same way about the 'second book').
I can't wait for your reviews.
A domestic drama plays out in the life of Frances and her mother that begins with taking on a young couple, the Barbers, as boarders.
The economic pinch of the losses of a father and brothers in the war has them relinquishing an upper class life with servants and struggling to keep their house.
I can say that much of the book excels in the atmospherics and hothouse claustrophobic feel of domestic life where secrets are guarded and only doled out in special circumstances of trust.
There are open vistas with Frances’ love life and tragic complications that approach soap opera proportions.
And even Lil finally says it in the final chapters: "You always bully me, Frances."The story is a long one, and we are drawn into the world of criminal courts and family relationships that complicate the budding romance between the two central characters.
This is what I mean about “emotional coercion.” I think Frances knew this, and despite that knowledge, acted in her own self-interest and without the love she needed to make us more comfortable with her actions.Sarah Waters’ writing is beautifully crafted but Louise Welsh dark (The Cutting Room, The Bullet Trick) and Patricia Highsmith dark (The Talented Mr. Ripley, Strangers on a Train).
In a time when London has been devastated by war, the family brought down by multiple deaths and financial ruin, certain societal norms are not to be challenged.The knowledge that Frances is a lesbian or had a lesbian lover seemingly creates a tension or barrier to their friendship.
Later that evening, Frances and Lilian return to the kitchen and embark on their steamy sultry love affair making love in the pantry.
This leads to a coverup, incredible tension, outing of other affairs, and the need for deep secrecy of their own love affair.This book is amazing on so many levels.
Groosly overwriten and cliched, the most glaring deficiency is a complete lack of firm, sympathetic editing.
Key scenes, when they eventually arrive, are marred by repetition, bad use of adjectives and seriously poor punctuation.The main protagonists are completely two dimensional, particularly the ghastly, flaccid Lilian, and there is a passage in serious contention for the Bad Sex prize.The narrative is very obviously a close copy of 'A Pin To See The Peepshow', which is sad given Sarah Waters' former originality.
It has all the hallmarks of a book laboured over under contract.
Ms Waters should be allowed ten years if she needs it.A bad and exhausting read.FMA
"They had no idea how decency, loyalty, courage, how it all shriveled away when one was frightened."So, days after finishing The Paying Guests I am still shaking my head in disbelief.
What follows in the first half of this book is the slow but steady build up of tension which left me hanging on to every page with anticipation of when that tension would be released.
well, not until, you have been taken on this rollercoaster ride, and have progressed through the trials that the characters face, and not until you have worried with them, lived with them, and loved with them.
Admirable Historical Writing, but Too Unremittingly Bleak to be Enjoyable This is a tough book to review.I admired the author's skill.The characters are believable, especially the very sympathetic Frances Wray, the main character.Her accuracy of time and place is excellent.
The pace is slow (almost sleepy, in keeping with the time and place), especially in the first half of the book.
So this is a time when women were running things in Britain because so many of the men died in the war.
It is year 1922, the dust after the turmoil of war hardly fell, the higher social classes have lost their fortunes and former status and are forced to live in new circumstances.
Such fate shares 26-year-old Frances Wray who lives with her mother in decaying house in the suburbs of London.
Her days go on scrubbing floors, dusting, cleaning, cooking and caring about a bit neurotic and overbearing mother.
This is a starting point for  Paying guests .Writing, set in victorian England  Fingersmith  Sarah Waters recklessly broke into literary Parnassus.
Although, at first, Frances finds it difficult to share the space of her home with others, eventually she is almost forced into contact with them.
The couple have to go through the kitchen to the outside toilet and the upstairs landing houses Frances’ bedroom, as well as the Barber’s rooms.It is difficult to review this novel, without giving away the plot and I have no wish to do that.
Frances is a complicated young woman, who feels she has been forced to give up her own wishes for that of her father and now her mother and the house.
I thought it was very boring for too long as nothing really happens in the first 250 pages.
However, 100 pages would have been quite enough to present the setting and tell us a silly romance story with lots of secret panting and sighing and groping in the pantry.
By page 250 I was tempted to toss the book aside, but didn't as I could not imagine that Sarah Waters was boring us to death.
Frances did not invoke any sympathy with me and I did not like it how she pursued Lily, throwing her higher class in as an extra weight.
This is a slow read and packed with lots of details of English domestic life so be warned.
I plodded through semi-interested and occasionally riveted.
The ending is a humdinger (don't you love that word) and so I am glad I stuck with it.
If you haven't read "Fingersmith" or "The Little Stranger"...go pick up some copies.
Her book is set in 1922 in Camberwell, South London, where a elderly widow and adult daughter live in a comfortable home.
Times are tough and the servants are gone, so the daughter is part maid and cook for her mother.
A moral crisis begins and then the book comes to life.
A taboo love affair, a police investigation and a courtroom drama ensue.I found myself growing increasingly impatient with and irritated by Frances and by the end of the novel my sympathy for her plight had entirely evaporated.
Furthermore, I had difficulty believing in Lilian and (view spoiler)[ I found it particularly difficult to accept that she would inspire such passion in Frances  (hide spoiler)].I'm predisposed to like courtroom dramas and the lengthy one described in the latter part of the novel I found marginally more compelling than the love affair, but not enough to turn the work into a winner for me, notwithstanding the excellent prose.
Although both halves of the novel are done well, it feels as if this is two different books put together.Waters fans will find the novel’s first 300 pages much less plot-driven than any of her previous work; they may, in fact, find themselves utterly bored by the wealth of period detail – especially what can seem like endless detailing of Frances’s chores.
I felt this description of Frances, given by her friend Christina, could just as aptly apply to the novel as a whole: “you’re sure a queer combination of things – so conservative one minute, so reckless the next.”Still, Waters’s skill at evoking historical time periods is peerless, and once again she delivers romantic relationships with a powerfully erotic charge.
As The Paying Guests is on many of the Best Books of 2014 lists, I decided to give it a go. The book fell short for me. Too predicable. Many GR friends rated this book higher than I did. This was just not my type of book.3 stars out of 5.
There were even times when she was narrating as one of the male characters, that I thought perhaps there were two narrators in the audio version, male and female, but no it was all her.Events in the book certainly picked up towards the second half right until the end of the book and it was definitely worth the wait.
Overall, I think if you are prepared to stick it out at the beginning it will be worth the wait and I highly recommend the audio version of this book.
