https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/665852.Man_s_Search_for_Himself
It sat on my book shelf for two years and I picked it up just to flip through it and it couldn't have been a better time.
It is exactly what I was looking for, talk about a meaningful coincidence.
It was written in the 1950's by the great existential psychologist Rollo May and it is still valid in today’s world.
He also talks about the struggle against dependency and taking responsibility for our own lives.
I can't say enough about the great work that this book is.
It has definately changed the way I look at myself and how I do therapy with my clients.
کتابی روان و خوش خوان که باعث تفکر میشه، نویسنده به زیبایی از مطالب کتاب های دبگه برای فهم مطلب استفاده کرده و برداشت های جالبی از آن ها ارائه داده که آدم رو مشتاق می کنه که بعداز خواندن اون کتابا دوباره به سراغش بیاد، ترجمه هم با پی نوشت ها زیبا تر شده است، دست مترجم درد نکنه.
....هدف انسان از زندگی باید برآوردن، شکوفا ساختن و به کار گرفتن آزادانه، صادقانه و مسئولانه طبیعت و توانایی شخصی خویشتن باشد....معیار های سنجش خوشبختی صداقت، انسجام شخصیت، جرأت و عشق در ارتباط با جهان و لحضات زندگی است.
10 pages in and you realize that the book is not what you assumed it to be, but the Contents and length (150 pages) lures you to finish it nevertheless.'Man's Search for Himself' by American Existential Psychologist Rollo May is a book that intentionally sacrifices depth for accessibility while tackling the What, Why and Hows of Anxiety in as simple words as possible.
Backed by years of clinical experience, May continuously cites psychoanalytic literature, parables and personal anecdotes to gradually drive home 'the point' of the chapter.
Verdict: For Psychoanalysis, cut the middlemen and rush to books by founding fathers post-haste, everybody else heavily uses them in their own books anyway.

In this book, I noticed parallelisms between Rollo May's insights with those of Erich Fromm, especially on the aspect of freedom and irrational authority. But the difference is, May's style is rather free-flowing and spontaneous as contrasted with Fromm's somewhat repetitive with rigorously referenced writing. Condemning ourselves is the quickest way to get a substitute sense of worth. People who have almost, but not quite, lost their feeling of worth generally have very strong needs to condemn
May discusses the phenomenon of man's inability to deal with his own condition of being alone, the anxiety that causes one to feel when being confronted with the reality of having to deal with ones own existence within ones own context.
He also integrated key psychodynamic concepts which are essential in the practice of therapy, case analyses, and so on.I am quite adamant, however on his overemphasis on matriarchal authority, which he blames as being a great factor for the neurosis of his young male patients.
Edebiyat, şiir ve felsefeden anlayan bir terapistin danışanlarından edindiği bilgiyi kendi bilgisiyle harmanladığı bir metni okumak ne kadar da zevkli. Bencilliğin kendini sevmeyle eşitlendiği, narsizmi gıdıklayan bir yönetimsellik düzeninde hayatın paradoksal bilgisini edinmek çok zor ve bu yüzden çok kıymetli. Korkaklık cesaretin, bireysel toplumsalın, tarih güncelin zıddı değil, bu kitap bu bilgiyi akıcı bir dille aktarıyor.Özgürlük, bağımlılık, yaratıcı bilinç, cesaret, kendin olmak, sevgi, hafıza, zaman ve ruhsal zenginleşme üzerine bir kitap. Diğer kitaplarını da okumayı iple çekiyorum.
I found this book at the Salvation Army & purchased it for .99 cents, which is probably the least I've ever paid for a book that I would grow to adore. What made me connect with this book most is how timeless it is, the emotions expressed about that time period resonate completely with modern times. I'd reccomend this book to anyone whose at a cross roads in their life & is looking for lit that can shed some light on our internal conflicts with the world around us & our place in it.
از دیدگاه روان شناسی زمان فقط گذشت دقایق و ساعتها نیست بلکه معنی حالات و تجربه هایی است که برای شخص پیش می آید. یعنی آنچه زمان را برای فرد مهم می سازد حالات امیدها دلهره ها و رشد و حرکتی است که در آن برای انسان وجود دارد.
یک کتاب تقریبا خوب ، از چند لحاظ ؛اول اینکه تو اون دسته کتابایی قرارش میدم که حرف حساب برای گفتن دار
یک کتاب تقریبا خوب ، از چند لحاظ ؛اول اینکه تو اون دسته کتابایی قرارش میدم که حرف حساب برای گفتن دار
كنت ابحث في الكتاب عن شيء بعينه بوجدت اشياء اخريات، مع ذلك، فان الكتاب جميل جداًرغم انه يحيد عن موضوعه كثيراً في الفصول الأخيرة لكن الغاية تحققت على أية الحال
قرأت ترجمتيه في العربي، الترجمة التالية هي الأفضل:http://arabic-christian-counseling.co...
الترجمة سيئة جدا، اسامة النقاش، مسببة اهدار فى حق و غنى الكتاب.و لكن كمجمل الكتاب عميق جدا.
I read this book before reading Eric Fromm's "Escape from Freedom" and I expected to be different (in contents) but similar in its own way.
But, when you read it, you find a very few psychological references and, insted of them, you can find a lot of phylosophical, biblical or theatral references to explain a psychological fact.
I didn't expect an explanation so poorly valued by science.
And also, the book is like a continuous replay of the same ideas explained in different no-scientific ways.
I found Rollo May’s theories and analysis fairly easy to follow considering my only exposure to psychology was a general undergrad course 10+ years ago.
Following, he goes on to provide a path, backed by logical reasoning and analysis, for how the individual can raise above the confines of society.
It’s essentially a substantive manifesto for how to obtain self-realization (to know ones self; a slight difference from self-actualization).The impact of this book on my life and general perspective has been life changing.
Reading this book will have a deeper, life changing, impact; at least it did for me.
ضمنا مشخصا درباره جامعه آمریکایی پس از جنگ جهانی دوم نوشته شده اگرچه برخی از تحلیلهاش به شرایط جهان امروز هم برازنده است، اما تلاش زیاده برای موافقت کامل با نویسنده منجر به درک واقعیت کنونی جامعه خودمون به طریقی غیرواقعی میشه.
با این حال هنوز وجه بازاری و مدگرایانه اگزیستانسیالیسم آمریکایی رو هنوز در این کتاب احساس میکردم (اما در کشف وجود کمتر بود.) به همین دلیل وسوسه شدم آثار وجودگراهای اروپایی رو بخونم که گویا فلسفیتر هستند.
حتی وسوسه شدم به جای روانشناسهای اگزیستانسیالیست مستقیما سراغ فلاسفه برم که البته نیاز به مقداری خویشتنداری و انصاف و تساهل داره؛ چون برخی از چهره های مشهور اگزیستانسیالیسم اروپا به دلیل نظریات زن ستزانه شون در من اکراه برمی انگیزن.
Удивително е как едно описание на "съвременния човек", писано преди повече от 65 години, изглежда толкова актуално и днес.
Разбира се, в тези по-малко от 300 страници няма как да бъде твърде изчерпателен, но това е една отлична книга за начало (а и не само) за всеки, който иска да разбере малко по-добре себе си, за да не бъде животът "някакъв безполезен епизод, който пречи на иначе блаженото състояние на не-съществуване" (Фред Алън, цитиран от Мей).
Една важна разлика между неговото и нашите поколения ми се струва това, че човек все повече осъзнава нуждата от търсене на себе си.

One of the best books I've read in my life. There's something special about the last few century authors - it's very intriguing that the same stuff they've been writing about years and even centuries ago are so actual and real nowadays, as they've predicted the battles that human race will need to go through in 21st century. Simply astonishing book.
This book simply transcends time. Originally published 60+ years ago it connects the past, present, and future of any time. If you are interested in the physiology of man kind this book would be perfect. I know now that our problems go way deeper than the surface. Know yourself first then I think this world can change. One soul at a time!
O kadar çok cümlenin altını çizmişim ki seçip buraya yazamıyorum. Okunmalı. 2o. yüzyılın ortalarında Amerika da yazılmış bu kitabı okurken hissettiğim ortaklığın 21.yüzyılın Türkiye'sine denk gelmesi bir geri kalmışlık göstergesi mi yoksa modern insanın çirkinleşmesi ülkemizde geciktiği için güzel bir şey mi bilemedim doğrusu.
Dünya çok fazladır bizimle;geç ve çok geçmeden, elde ederek ve harcayarak yıkıp dökeriz güçlerimizi.Az şey görürüz dünyada bizim olan.Kalplerimizi bedava verdik,sefil bir rahatlık!Çıplak göğsünü aya açan bu deniz; bütün saatlerde inleyen rüzgarlar ve şimdi yukarıda toplanmış uyumuş çiçekler gibi bunun için ve her şey için , akordumuz bozulmuş bizim.
Published in 1953 outlining mass conformity, threat of nuclear holocaust, absent value system, among other things, cause us to lose touch with who the fuck we are. Must have been hard to live back then when that was a problem.The reading of this book coincided with my life changing drastically. But as that guy sings "correlation is not causation."
Benliğin oluşum problemlerine ışık tutan, kolayca anlaşılan tam bir başucu kitabı.
Great book...helps one delve into and understand one's self and others much more clearly.
This is not a dogmatic book, nor a self help book, it's an honest enquiry in who you are besides the
"الواقع هو أن هدف الإنسان أن يحيا كل لحظة في حرية وصدق ومسئولية، من ثم فالمرء في كل لحظة يحقق بقدر ما يمكنه طبيعته ومهمته التطورية، وبهذه الطريقة يمر المرء بخبرة الفرح والسعادة التي تصاحب تحقيق ذات المرء"بتلك الكلمات ختم الكاتب كتابه وهي تعتبر ملخص الكتاب ..
لأي مدى نحقق كبشر الحرية ، ولأي مدى نزعم أننا أحرار، سيفاجئك الكتاب بالكثير مما تتصوره حقيقة عن نفسك وهو محض زيف، لأي مدى يلعب مفهوم الحرية دورا في المسئولية والوعي لتحقيق الصدق مع الذات الذي هو الوسيلة الوحيدة لأن تكون أقرب لذاتك..
الكتاب يستحق ٥ نجمات إلا في بعض الإطالة والخروج عن الموضوع وبعض الأخطاء في الترجمة التي أثرت في سياق الموضوع أنصح به جدا
покрай джордан питърсън отново взех да се интересувам от психология (най-вече от екзистенциална). препоръчвам книгата, достъпно написана, с потенциал да ви помогне да положите стабилна основа. добре дошли са и други препоръки. може би карл роджърс, който е в същата поредица на и-з (има бая грешки обаче, да си знаете).
Surprisingly, it was an easy read for a newbie in psychology. I love how the writer used analogy to explain some jargons. Even though it was written way before the age of technology, the content was still relevant to our current context. This book is a must-read if you are looking for a deeper understanding of the perception of self.
الكتاب فلسفي اكتر منه نفسي، فيه حتت كتير عجبتنى وبالذات اسطورة اورست ، وكمان اقتراحات تساعد على الوعي بالذات، يمكن المشكله الوحيده اللى فيه انه بيخاطب شويه عصره وبيدى اشارات لحاجات معروفه في عصره وثقافته وبيئته هو.. بس عامة ككتاب فلسفي، هو عظيم.
Rollo May expõe de maneira clara e brilhante o grande problema de nossa civilização: o vazio existencial. Uma obra fundamental para a melhor compreensão de homem moderno. A primeira leitura deste livro foi nos anos 80 e, ainda, mantém uma vitalidade impressionante; a considero atemporal.
