https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11150356-this-side-of-paradise-the-beautiful-and-damned
The Beautiful and the Damned really sucked me into the world of rich and poor alike. It was addictive to see what natural and human mistakes these characters would make next. It was refreshing to see people unhappy in all walks of life, depressing, but refreshing none the less.
Probably the oddest of Fitzgerald's books I've read so far. It could be attributed to my current mindset and its probable unfriendliness to such a style of writing and story lines but it didn't sit too well with me. That all being said, as is typical with Fitzgerald, his wit and intelligence are visible on almost every page and the ending is absolutely beautiful. I hope to understand it better someday when I've read it again.
This Side of Paradise is quite obvious as a first novel as you read it.
The act of following Amory Blaine is an effort that doesn't really pay off, as the plot can only be interesting when he actually has some kind of direction in life, which is seldom.
There are moments of brilliance in the writing though, so some definite promise to save it from being a totally wasted effort.
The Beautiful and Damned is a fascinating portrayal of a man's downward spiral into drink and debt, and is thoroughly entertaining.
Still a little bloated in places, but nowhere near as meandering as This Side of Paradise.
Volumul de față s-a citit ușor, m-am relaxat lecturând și imaginându-mi personajele, decorul și modul în care s-a desfășurat acțiunea. Fitzgerald are un stil de a scrie ce te introduce cu ușurință în atmosfera din roman, astfel încât nu îți dai seama când a trecut timpul. Recenzia completă o găsiți pe blog.
Thoughts: if you own this exact copy of the book, don't read any of the introductions before having finished the novels!!
the introductions are full of spoilers to the point where the whole plot is revealed and disected.
Great introduction that sums up all you've read and answers any lingering questions you might have had.
Good notes at the end of the book that help you better understand the social coordinates of the times depicted.
This Side of Paradise: This is a slice-of-life novel riddled with sarcasm and irony.
If you're not interested in this, read it for the way it was written!
It's most interesting as a way of seeing the evolution of one of the greatest novelists of the twentieth century, and it's somehow encouraging to see how far Fitzgerald grew as a writer before blessing the world with The Great Gatsby."'Don't you want to preserve old things?''But you /can't/, Anthony.
Beautiful things grow to a certain height and then they fail and fade off, breathing out memories as they decay.'"The Beautiful and Damned is a sharp contrast to the previous novel.
Loss of youth is still a pervading theme, but here we have individuals who never truly grow, and yet are constantly aware of their own mortality.
4.5 stars.
This Side of Paradise was a deeply unsettling read, but the train of thought seemed more jumbled and less impactful than The Beautiful and Damned.
Amory Blaine in Paradise seemed a little plastic and tacky (as are many characters in Fitzgerald's books) but the tragedy of Anthony Patch and Gloria Gilbert rings a lot more clearly in Beautiful.
Fitzgerald is truly a genius in portraying the glitz and underlying corruption of society in the Jazz Age, but I docked half a star for the inherent repulsiveness of the characters.
That being said it's a great read.
I may have left the book on a bench at a train station. I was possibly about a half-dozen pages from finishing This Side of Paradise (at which stage I would've left The Beautiful and Damned for another time), which is a pity. I was honestly rather keen to move on to some Oscar Wilde, so the flip side is that it pushed that time forward.
Not rating because the edition is 2 in one.I like This Side of Paradise, which may just be the least depressing book that Fitzgerald has ever written.The Beautiful and the Damned is a very depressing book, but it was fascinating. A very beautiful study of human character in the time. The ending was a tad ambiguous though.
I enjoyed "The Beautiful and Damned" much more than "This side of Paradise".The annotations at the end of the book were really helpful.The introductions were also really interesting but, as other readers may have written earlier, read them only after you've finished the two stories ;)
You can read the reviews here: http://embracingmybooks.blogspot.be/2... and here: http://embracingmybooks.blogspot.be/2...
Vain, prep school ponce goes to Princeton and gets a wet nob-on over Tolstoy. Fails to get his end away with girls. I couldn't put this book down! But that was only because I was using it to hide my willy at a naturist camp.
Loved The Beautiful and the Damned.... struggling through This Side of Paradise.
Loved college at the dawn of the '20s roar. Advice for beauty and damned. To her: Get over yourself. To him: Get a job.
2* for This Side of Paradise3* for The Beautiful and the Damned
The Beautiful and Damned me gustó mucho más que This Side of Paradise. Pero TSP no deprime.
