https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8648.Xenocide
This xkcd web comic makes for the best review of this book. http://xkcd.com/304/I didn't hate it. The philosophy and science annoyingly reminded me of Tom Clancy's later stuff where he rambles on and on over minutia no one but him and his 7 true fans really enjoy. The rest of us start skimming hoping to find something to make continuing to read worth it. Only to depressingly read the last sentence wondering why successful authors stop using editors.
TOO LONG. I grudgingly give this book a 3, based only on my affection for the characters and the creativity of the story. Most of the book suffers from overkill in one sense or another, which leads to its main problem of length. Its impossible to deny that Card is brilliant, but I can think of no writers other than Tolstoy and Dickens (barely) that can justifiably write 600 or more pages of novel. Yes I'm aware I'm including Dostoyevsky in this statement (sorry Karamazov-lovers). Card could have
Card could have brought this one in at under 500 and lost nothing while gaining much due to brevity.Problems (where to start?):Much of the length problem was due to tedious treatment of 3 of the main characters.
If you´re going to spend 5 pages on her, at least use it to develop the mind-boggling and completely inexplicable split-second decision she makes at the end(view spoiler)[ to run off with New Peter (hide spoiler)].
(hide spoiler)]This woman is simply insane, and I do not believe that she would have been allowed to affect so much of the goings-on if Card were trying to be at all realistic.
591 pages, rambling on about uninteresting stuff.The main goal of this novel I believe was to keep things interesting by introducing another possibility of a "xenocide", but all it did was introduce another set of alien species that are not even likeable.
Unbelievable how much I hated this novel.The list of annoying things does not end.
Card made the characters seem like they were trying to be like Ender a lot.
Miro, Grego, and Wang-mu were all pretentious in this novel.
Ender himself was fucking unbearable in this novel.
This novel should be called "The Art of Whining" and not "Xenocide".
I think that part of the reason I enjoy science fiction so much is that, not only does it force me to use my brain, but it can address real life issues in a setting that, although comparable to real life, does not have quite the same affect on my while still making me think about real principles.
I am not sure if that makes sense...I am the type of reader that is deeply affected when I read about horrific things that happen in real life (ie murder, rape, war, violence etc).
Had this been a stand alone novel, rather than a continuation of the Ender Wiggins series, it probably wouldn’t have irritated me so much.
The premises of this book is one that he had first thought of as an independent story line, but since Ender Wiggins was a ready made hit, rolled it into the trilogy instead.
One of the greatest aspects of Ender’s Game was that it delved into a number of deeper issues, without being in your face or pushy.
As it is, though, the forcing of a separate story plot into the continuing saga of Ender Wiggins did not work.

How can we pursue our own interests while remaining respectful of others'?My only reservation about this book is that it really only makes sense having read the other two first, Ender's Game and Speaker for the Dead.
It is incredibly disappointing to me that such an imaginative, creative writer as Card sees homosexuality as wrong.
He is able to imagine species that reproduce in incredibly innovative and foreign ways, yet is not able to tolerate something as banal as one human loving another human who happens to be of the same sex.
I admire Card's creativity, but I am saddened by his narrow-mindedness regarding his own species.
(Quara, Gloriously Boring Bright, Novinha) The only redeeming factor was a "female" computer and Valentine, as the other women just opened their mouths and made more problems or spent the entire book talking about their unworthiness.
Luckily they have men to fix everything right?Lets move to the synopsis, which states:The war for the survival of the planet Lusitania will be fought in the heart of a child named Gloriously Bright.I can't even say how irritating that statement is, since Gloriously Bright exacerbated the problem, and then spent the entire book being a stubborn fool, contributing nothing further.
5.0 stars. I was amazed by how good this book is. Speaker for the Dead is one of my all time favorite books and this book picks up right where Speaker left off. Superb characters, amazingly orginal concepts of life and the universe and intense ethical debate (Card's strong suit) highlight this exceptional novel. Highly recommended. Nominee: Hugo Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1992)Nominee: Locus Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1992)
There was something about Ender’s world - even for a reader who was most at home with the most elaborate of high fantasy and sci-fi, the subdued world of Ender had a different sort of fascination.
True it was set in a fascinating slot to tell this story but it asked nothing of the reader, no suspension of belief, no acceptance of an distinct world, it only asked the reader to connect with Ender.Then Uncle Orson had the brilliant idea to take this brilliant story line and merge with a rejected story from his early career and mix in all sort of mumbo-jumbo.
How many stars do you give a book that starts off good, wanders around dully in the middle, and then becomes offensively horrible at the end?
It started out with a good mystery: who are the gods and how does this planet relate to the other, but that got resolved about 3/4 of the way through the book, somehow the struggles on Lusitania seem mostly tedious and obnoxious.
Instead of chewing through the book, I read it at a casual pace.
Bleagh.P.S. Just so you know, I lost all will to read this book right at the end.
So I never actually finished the book.
The problem with this book is the use of stereotypes and isn't it sort of, I don't know, unsettling to people how monochromatic these worlds are?
Just because you're in a world full of people like you ethnically or religiously doesn't mean you will fit in.
This is sort of the same problem in Children of the Mind too, where you have whole worlds were most of the people are the same race and religion and they act as stereotypical as possible.
OSC is not good at creating characters that are believable as PEOPLE and not just as some kind of stereotype of this ethnic group.More later.
Wow. It took me so long to finish this book after racing through the previous portion of this series.
Card is truly one of the most brilliant writers I have had the pleasure of reading.That said, certain portions of the book I just found to be tedious.
I also find fault with the fact that it is obvious artificial intelligence and the brilliant scientists of Lusitania will solve the scientific issues faced in the book, making the buildup of suspense difficult.
Nevertheless it's worth it to read the book.
Can you learn to understand someone, even when they are ‘evil’ and do bad things?It was with great joy that I picked up the third book in the series, “Xenocide” (especially since book two ended before everything was resolved).Sadly enough, I have to report that “Xenocide” failed to uphold the same standard as the first two… =(Well, kind of… the first three-fourth of the book was fairly good as Card tried hard to explore how one could live side-by-side with aliens, who by their very existence, places your life in danger.
With a starship on the way to destroy the planet, Ender and his family race to find a cure for the descolada, a virus integral to the life cycle of the pequeninos, but lethal to humans.
A faction of the pequeninos decides they want to bring the descolada virus to other planets and wipe out humanity.The third book in the Ender series would have been better with about 200 less pages.
You'd think that the starship coming to destroy the planet would be a bit more of a uniting factor.
And the ending resolved very little but tying down a superfluous oxbow in the story line.I cant help but wonder if the success of Ender's Game & Speaker for the Dead - which were both very good - gave this author so much clout that his editors no longer reigned him in.
80% of the characters in this novel are extras - some were interesting, but they really did not have much to do with the story moving along.
Short off topic review - I often wonder when someone does something legendary did they know what they were doing was going to be epic, or did they just fluke it?After reading this, Enders game seems more of a fluke to me, then something OSC knew would be legendary.
I don't know at what point OSC came to Jesus, but this level of Christianity in this book is overwhelming, and no real counter argument is ever made to it.
Especially after the mocking tone EG had to religion.
Even more so when its the only religion being brought to a planet.I really wanted to love this series.
So the first half of this book was pretty entertaining.
I was enjoying the tension in the characters and plot, but in the second half I was just so over everything.
All the philosophical threads were talked to death and I was so bored with it by the end.
I want to know how they were going to solve the problem rather than talking about random and very obscure ideas.
I'm not sure if they solved all of the problems introduced in this book and it left me hanging.
I understand now that Book 4 is really Xenocide part 2 so that's good to know.
You’re standing there, head tilted back, eyes squeezed shut, hands clenched into fists at your side as you scream out every ounce of anger, frustration, confusion, and disappointment that you’ve ever experienced in your lifetime, from the depths of your very soul.Now, imagine you’re releasing all those feelings through one epic scream as a reaction to this book.There’s your short-version review.
It was an opening that led to another set of questions, another group of characters I could barely stand to read about, and another series of books that I just can’t bring myself to be interested in!This book was far too long, but I can usually deal with books that ramble.
A true god would want to make people just like he is.
I don't really object to this morphing of Mormon theology into sci-fi, but I did roll my eyes a couple of times.The philosophy that really bothered me in this book was an extensive discussion of free will/determinism.
If it's true, people will simply do whatever has been determined.Even that wasn't my big issue with the book.
There were times when I thought the best way to end the book would be to have the fleet receive it's orders and wipe these insufferable people out.
Real gods would want to teach you how to be just like them."The third part of the Ender Quartet, the sequel to Ender's Game and Speaker for the Dead, which takes place on the Brazilian colony of Lusitania -- the habitat of all three known species in the universe: humans, pequeninos, and the Hive Queen's buggers -- and a planet called Path, a descendant colony of China whose inhabitants believe themselves to be "godspoken." The plot is concerned with three main issues: the development of a cure and an understanding of the descolada virus, which is threatening to wipe out all life it comes into contact with, but which is necessary for pequenino survival, and the existence of which has led Starways Congress to condemn the planet to destruction; the growing conflicts between species on all planets and the ethical, spiritual, and philosophical dilemmas that result; and finally, the quest of three individuals on Path to find out what happened to the Lusitania fleet which was sent by Starways Congress to destroy Lusitania -- a "godspoken," his daughter, and her servant -- all who will be instrumental in the shape of things to come.I enjoyed this book.
Novinha is horrible to everyone about everything, and this book just served to highlight how every single bad thing in her life had to be turned into a huge thing that everyone in Milagre had to stop the world and pay attention to.
And yet, like all bad people, she has the good people in her life all twisted up, wondering what they did wrong.
She should have spent this book in jail.Quing-jao has a terrible case of sixteen, and appears to be run by the colony of locusts in her brain, but at least we're not supposed to take her seriously as a heroic character.TL;DR, too many horrible women make this book nearly unreadable.
Spoiler alert: all of a sudden, its like the writer hit a wall and just thought, oh- i know, i will just make up this completely ridiculous outside place to literally create new characters for me so i can keep writing.
I know this book is fiction and set in the future but that is far too unbelievable for me, you need to keep a bit of reality in there, it literally ruined the whole story for me.
As soon as i realised this wasn't some ridiculous dream ender was having i literally stopped reading the book near the end and haven't picked up another book to do with the enderverse.
This is really part one of a two book set in the series.
There are a lot of ideas in the story as everything related to the psychology and philosophy of prejudice is explored in a dramatic speculative fiction setting.
Religion and politics, as well as basic species survival imperatives come into play throughout the complete Ender series.
Generally the book is very realistic and true to human nature, with the additional bonus of well imagined two other sentient species involved.
I love it, including the undertone of the story of a Christ-like figure that Ender represents.
When I first started this series I was afraid that the first book would be good and then the quality would slowly start to dip, because the goodreads rating did so and you have to trust user ratings, right?
I was so wrong.
Not only was Speaker for the Dead so much better than Ender's Game, but now, Xenocide is EVEN BETTER than Speaker for the Dead.
The character of Han Qing-jao was probably the best thing in this book, and probably the best storyline this series had to offer (I reserve the right to change my mind once I start and finish Children of the Mind).
Did I do it right?”
A weak 4* but deserves more than 3*. There were several disappointments in this book, but the main one is that so much of the book was spent on detailing the OCD actions of the 'godspoken', that the author decided to write a part 2 Children of the Mind rather than dealing now with resolving the problems of Jane's survival and the splintering of Ender's adopted family - in fact, those problems just kept getting bigger! And I'm not sure i'm optimistic enough to want to read the 4th book of what should have been a trilogy.
Great book. Lots of interesting ideas about how everything in the universe works and how it came to happen...
Ender's Game and Speaker for the Dead are lucid, well-plotted novels with memorable characters, undergirded by their author's regressive politics.
Quick spoiler alert and pro-tip: 'philote' is Orson Scott Card for 'midichlorian'.I'm not opposed to 'divine science' in storytelling; I am heavily opposed to novels that forsake forward momentum and character- and plot-driven events in favor of huge expository infodumps that serve no purpose but to papier-mâché over a narrative conundrum.And that's before we start the onerous job of tackling just how regressive this author really is.
The second novel, Speaker for the Dead, takes place years later when Ender visits the planet Lusitania where Xenologists are studying two non-human species: the pequininos, who have an unusual life cycle, and the descolada virus, which is fatal for humans but necessary to the pequininos.
When Congress can’t figure out what happened to its fleet, a young Chinese girl on the planet Path is asked to use her superior intellect to solve the mystery.Meanwhile, on Lusitania, Ender’s family is desperately trying to find a way to recode the descolada virus’s DNA so it will do what it needs to do for the pequininos without killing humans.
What if a whole new species was found living on a completely different planet?
In the book Xenocide by Orson Scott Card, there is a planet called Lusitania that holds a human colony, but humans aren’t the only creatures that live on this planet.
I also enjoyed it because it has several scientific theories that were very interesting to think about.
Some scientists even think that the philotes are what make up our individual will.
This is one of the best and most interesting books I have ever read.
It is different from most other books, and that is what makes it so interesting.
