https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/784977.The_Magnetic_Fields
If the eyes are the mirror of the soul then the language is the mirror of the mind… It’s enough to make a mirror a little bit concave or convex and then the reflections will be full of new wondrous meanings and colours.The corridors of the big hotels are empty and the cigar smoke is hiding.
A man comes down the stairway and notices that it's raining; the windows are white.
The street becomes a deserted track.About four o'clock that same day a very tall man was crossing the bridge that joins the separate islands.
Gradually one draws nearer to scrub-lands and markets.
Andre Breton’s The Magnetic Fields, written in 1919, is a wonderful piece of writing; like a painting for the imagination made out of words, instead of lines and shapes.
I loved this and want it to be part of my permanent collection but it appears to be out of print, and used copies are a bit pricey.
I was glad to be able to get a copy from the library.
Some small examples of the writing style: “ I have a sinister mark on the inner side of my arm, a blue M which threatens me.
Highly recommended to those who enjoy this type of writing.
It will make you the prisoner of a drop of water.
Here are a few of my favorites: There are wizards so destitute that they use their cauldrons to boil the clouds and that's not the end of the matter....There were delightful displays of childish temper about those succulent plants that can never be applied to corns, they're were fleur de lys preserved in brandy when you fell over.....We touch those tender stars which filled our dreams with our fingers....All of us laugh all of us sing but nobody feels his heart beat any longer....Our prison is built of well loved books but we can no longer escape because of all the passionate odors that send us to sleep.....True stars of our eyes how long do you take to revolve around our heads?
Stiff stem of Suzanne uselessness above all village of flavours with a lobster church.
This book is draw-dropping in terms of its step into the modern exploration of the unconscious. In this day of collaborative poems, we should all go back to one of the early key collaborations.
"The most magnificent doors are those behind which the words: 'Open in the name of the Law' are spoken." p. 67
Better than poetry
just wanted to post the album review for the BAND magnetic fields new album "love at the bottom of the sea"http://www.bbc.co.uk/music/reviews/h3b6
Crazy. Sexy. Cool. Tres francais. Absurd on an obscure level. I look forward to re-reading this for many years to come to escape and to inspire me in my own work.
One of my all time favourite books. It keeps going. Attracting.
Necesito saber más de la corriente estética.
Get ready to have your mind blown by the leader of the surrealists. Good luck!
I felt so magnetized that I couldn't distinguish south nor north. This is IMAGINARIUM. Just let it spin your mind.
