https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/117896.Moscow_to_the_End_of_the_Line
From the Author--Moscow to the End of the Line
If you are the kind of person who has ever got drunk with friends, stormed a police station and then declared war on Norway then you will find much here that is familiar.It's a book rich in allusion starting from the title (Moscow to Petushki) and structure, which is reminiscent of Radishchev's Journey from St.Petersburg to Moscow,whose description of the country landed the author in a certain secure facility at the pleasure of her Imperial Highness Catherine II - it doesn't pay always to be too truthful about the homeland, but also in cocktail recipes (all of which are firmly in the 'do not try at home' category).
Imagine a drunken Dante on an epic railway journey to nowhere, pondering the merits of various cocktails made from furniture polishes and solvents, debating the meaning of life and the worth of his soul, hilarious and tragic by turns. That'll give you a rough idea of what it's like to fall into this book. A delight every time I reread it.
Mosca-Petuskì è il suo trattato sul fatalismo necessario, dallo stile enfatico e burlesco; si tratta di un libro basato sulla convinzione che “tutti gli uomini di valore in Russia bevono come spugne”, perché in un mondo di menzogne solo l'alcol non mente.
Erofeev riesce a creare con la sua visione un'intimità universale, mentre un riso cannibalesco travolge sia la letteratura che la rivoluzione, dando un senso doloroso e grottesco alla nostra transitoria interpretazione del vivere.“Perché la vita umana, non è forse un breve ciclone dell'anima?
E' anche un'eclissi dell'anima.
If dialectical materialism were turned on its head, something like angels would probably fall out. If you got drunk enough to cross Moscow a thousand times without ever seeing the Kremlin, something like freedom would happen, despite the State. If poky old Petushki became Eden, just because you loved and it was there, materialism would be turned right side up again, but with the angels left in. That’s Erofeev, whose incredibly Russian cocktail of sadness & joy, shame, spirituality, and sensual skewering of Lenin is Marxism’s inadvertent glory & a gorgeous f-you to Kremlins everywhere.
A fun and funny intoxicated ramble around Moscow. The man wrecked by affect disorders not fun. I hoped the angels might help him, but they embarrassed and silent.
Freakish.I'm impressed by his attempt at a Clark Gable 'stache though.So in the little bit of research I did on this book I found that it's considered a "postmodernist prose poem" which I didn't necessarily pick up on while I was reading it.
Maybe that will help you going into your own reading of it and then you won't have your world turned upside down like mine was.Even though Erofeev didn't sport the Russian-classic (ie, beard), he did write about an alcoholic, so he gets to keep his Russian literary citizenship for that at least.
Это поистине гениальное произведение, в котором автор, рассказчик и главный герой совпадают - это все Веничка Ерофеев.Вот и он:"Москва-Петушки" - ода человеку советскому.
Не хотела бы я быть переводчиком, и переводить "Москву-Петушки" на другие языки, потому что никто, кроме людей с нашим, русским менталитетом, не поймет этой книги.
А еще Москва-Петушки бесценный сборник отличных алкогольных коктейлей и всяческих полезных в быту рецептов, как и говорилось выше.Я в их годы делал так: вечером в четверг выпивал одним махом три с половиной литра ерша — выпивал и ложился спать, не раздеваясь, с одной только мыслью: проснусь я утром в пятницу или не проснусь?
И все-таки утром в пятницу я не просыпался.
It starts in on page one and pretty much follows on every page:“One of my acquaintances says that Coriander vodka has an antihuman effect on a person; that is, it strengthens all the physical members but weakens the soul.
With me it happened the other way around for some reason; that is, my soul was strengthened in the highest degree while my members were weakened.
Everything should take place slowly and incorrectly so that man doesn’t get a chance to start feeling proud, so that man is sad and perplexed.”The book is of course also a social commentary on Soviet Russia, and starts with the narrator talking about how he couldn’t seem to find the Kremlin even if he tried, and ends with him finally in the Kremlin and not liking what he finds there.
One of the most *beautiful* books I've ever read, hands down. Through a haze of alcohol, Soviet repression, and the hypnotic rhythm of a subway journey, Erofeev turns his drunken slapstick into brilliant satire, his own maudlin self pity into the lyrically transcendent.
“No”, he laughed, “it is prohibited!” I then asked if there was an Arabic word for ‘hangover.’ No, he said.
On the last page of my used copy of Moscow to the End of the Line, or Moskva-Petushki, there is written in pencil, under the questions “make a fig?” and “money to buy drinks?”, a “recipe” for a drink called “Tear of a Komsomol Girl”, a recipe that looks to me like it’s potentially fatal.
When I asked my Russian teacher about it, she said that people really drank things like this during the Soviet Union.
Maybe there’s a word for that in Russian.I don’t know much about Yerofeyev’s life, but I get the sense that he lived his book.
He's a drunken fucker with alcohol veins instead of blood.
I like one of his disturbing recipes: medicine for a toothache.
Find wild strawberries (whole plant with berries and roots) and one mole.
Take the root of that strawberry and press it against the rotten tooth while you suffocate the mole with your other two fingers.
This recipe goes in the same category as the joke I heard when I was little: what is the difference between the elephant's ears and a yoghurt?
Yoghurt can be liquid.
It’s been twenty years and my mind is still wrapped around it.
I've read this book 'bout 1 000 times. It's ultimate answer to your pain, depress and even happiness.
It is hard for me to judge, but I think that the novel in general and its humor in particular, might be hard to understand for people who is not closely familiar with everyday life of regular Russian people during late 60th, with policies and views of same period, with Marx’ and Lenin’s quotes and with Russian literature.
While on the train, he drinks and engages in conversations with different people and with himself, discussing the wide variety of subjects from politics to religion, from philosophy to literature, from recipes to make different alcoholic “cocktails”(from eau de toilette, nails polish and other products that contain alcohol) to the meaning of life.
His friends saw only allegiance in his drunkenness, he never cherished alcohol itself, but yet he created the greatest hymn to drinking as a way of life.
"Moscow to the End of the Line" is a very funny book, there's a lot of laugh in there.
But Erofeev laughs on the subjects that are laughable already, and somehow turns them into tragedy.
He never distances himself from the subjects he laughs on and as a result readers always end up sympathizing this poor drunk with his crazy cocktails...
Alcohol Vanish 150g.Great stuff!
adıyorum” diye başlamış yazar.
Bence trajik değil traji-komik denmeli, hatta mizah yanı daha ağır basan trajik bir otobiyografi denemesi de denilebilir.
Yazar kendisini işinden atılan bir kablo tesisatçısı olarak tanımlayarak anlatmaya başlıyor.
Alkolik Venichka bir tren yolculuğundadır.
Trende, farklı insanlarla ve kendisiyle devamlı konuşur.
Siyaset, din, günlük yaşam,felsefe, edebiyat gibi farklı konularda düşünceler kafasında belirir ve bunları ya tartışır veya öğüt verir.
Altmışlı yıllarda yazılmış 1970’de basılmış olduğunu düşünürsek (Brejnev dönemi) bu kitabı yazmak cesaret ister diye düşünüyorum.
sayfasındaki insanın kendini nasıl hissettiği konusundaki gözlemleri ile 90.
sayfada bulanıklık ile ilgili yazdıkları muhteşem.
Kitabın sonuna doğru kendisini en iyi şekilde tanımlıyor uazar “senin fikrini okumak imkansız”.
The book is a tragic-comic account of the narrator's (fictional?) trip from Moscow to Petuschki.
The narrator's biggest worry is how to get his next drink - in fact, I don't think I've ever read a book in which anyone ever had that many drinks.
It also describes what the characters do when they are drunk, for example declare war on Norway and other strange things.In the second half - when the narrator and his fellow travellers are already very drunk - the characters started to philosophize a bit too much in my opinion (something I also don't like about drunk people in real life).
This second part spoiled my reading experience a bit.
Stumbled on this one by accident at the library. Don't start it without a bottle of hard alcohol nearby. This book is a hallucination.
But from the point of view of a reader brought up more on Beckett than Dostoevsky, the glitter and swill of sloshing, effervescent, pointless conversations about hope that people no longer have, romantic yearnings they hardly recognize, and culture that they despair of ever actually living, is all inappropriate.
Funny & sad at the same time-people drink because life becomes too unbearable. Strangely it is the drink that keeps the narrator going. Caution: leave the drinking to professionals, especially if the drink calls for shoe polish.
This is a very strange little book, presenting the ramblings of a drunk man who drinks some more while traveling by train from Moscow. It all gets a bit surreal very fast and funny stories get mixed with existential drama, criticism of the political regime and hopelessness. And a lot of alcohol. It's definitely one of a kind.
Trippy, drunken, twisty-turny day in the life of Venedikt Erofeev.
We must look into them even if there's nothing there, even if there's only trash there." This is what 43 should've said after he looked into Putin's soul.On, I suppose, the Bolsheviks: " revolution acieves something essential when it occurs in the heart and not the town square." Amen.On us, I suppose, in the West: "I moved from fire to fire with a single alarming thought: why wasn't anyone in the world willing to have anything to do with us?
without accepting this world, perceiving it close up and far away, inside and out, perceiving but not accepting." A real fighter of the good fight!I read it as a 4-star but missed some stuff and I read it in English (an agile translation).
socialismo russo vs socialismo europeo "dal bordello alla clinica e dalla clinica al bordello"Venedi
In any event, I present to you the cocktail "Bitches Brew," a beverage which overshadows all others.
But even finer is this (write it down):Zhiguli Beer 100g."Sadko" Shampoo 30 gDandruff treatment 70gAthlete's Foot Remedy 30 gSmall Bug Killer 20 g.The whole thing is steeped for a week in cigar tobacco and served at table.the other thing I loved about this book was nearing the end, wrapping my mind around an indication of why people really do drink like this--very much at odds with the disease model presented to us in the west, but true I think on the existential level, having known a number of hopeless drunks myself: "And if I die sometime--I'm going to die very soon--I know I'll die as I am, without accepting this world, perceiving it closeup and far away, inside and out, perceiving but not accepting it...."Was not expecting that.
I had heard good references about the book.
I heard that it is a peculiar test of intelligence and humor.
Could I miss the opportunity to join the circles of people with unconventional thinking, peculiar humor and refined taste?
And the book had been waiting on my Kindle for a while, the soul was sad and journey long.
I think I didn’t get the book.
Call it weird and author drunken fool?
I’ll blame the book and drunken fool, I’ll blame the mixed up world and blame myself for missing past and missing point...Oh Venichka, why did you that to me?
Astounding. Not much like anything else I've ever read. Echoes of Kafka and Bulgakov, but mainly reminded me of one of my fave movies - (view spoiler)[Jim Jarmusch's "Dead Man" (hide spoiler)] - a surreal journey through... where exactly? to... where exactly? and populated by weird/wonderful minor characters with their own "business". Delving into the world of alcoholics' bewildering/bewildered dialogue was both very well done in itself and also served perfectly for the fractured narrative.No-Quibble 5-Star and straight onto the favourites shelf.
A recently fired alcoholic man rambles about stuff with passengers of a train while on his way somewhere. Funny book, had me smiling all the way through, and my liver hurtin' from so much booze talk.
I don't drink nearly enough to appreciate this book.
Okay, I've finally read it. Happy? Now I just need to erase it from my brain
"Moscow-Petushki," the original title, chronicals the travels, both psychological and psychological, of Venya, a 30 year old "Kid" who has recently lost his job as the supervisor of a cable fitting crew who spent all of their labors laying a single section of pipe over and over again.
Erofeev describes a distopian soviet-run communism, where the abject proletariat escape into drunkeness with abandon, as vestigial workers confined within a workless and absurd beurocracy.The story opens in the wee hours on a Moscow street where Venya is desperately trying to stave off sleep and sobriety and has begun to hear voices.
