https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/114600.To_the_Actor
Holy Shit.
Seriously, holy shit.
It draws parallels with every other type of art, and relies on the actor's existing talent and imagination as the basis for a successful acting experience, rather than just saying "remember how you felt when your dog died, and feel like that here." It describes the unconcious process I have been using since I was a child, but with ways to deepen and enrich the experience and actually understand each step of what you are doing.
Incredible. Absolutely elucidating, motivating and technically inspiring. The best book on acting I've read, full of actual usable exercises and explanations.
The BEST acting book I have ever read!
Probably the best book I ever read on acting. This book avoids overthinking, avoids trying to bring down the actor, and avoids being unrealistic . The book gives many exercises to help clear up what it talks about, and it gives very clear details of its techniques. It is unlike any other acting book I've ever read. If someone's a theatre actor doing it for fun or as a career, please give this book a read. It is a very underrated book that teaches an acting method that is very under appreciated.
A must read.
Cannot wait to implement some new tricks of the trade!
Did not resonate. Very technical.
wonderfull!
Theatre pedagogy, if you will.
I knew about annoying improv exercises (which pale in comparison to actually performing), but I never knew theatre technique could be so physical and complex.
I definitely learned a lot, and this book promotes hard work and resourcefulness in artists; looking within and using one's present atmosphere instead of looking to the past.
Ultimately, this book teaches us to be in the present and remove our ego so we can be ready instruments of interpretation.
These techniques are wonderful and certainly help with discipline, but you either have it or you don't.
One of the most creative and innovative alternatives to pure Stanislavski technique. Perhaps not the best place to delve into acting theory, but certainly one of the most mind-broadening experiences you can have in the area -- like diving into the deep end after dipping your toes.
Turbūt geriausia mano skaityta knyga apie aktorinį meistriškumą. Pradžioje ji gali pasirodyti kiek ezoteriška, bet vis tik joje aprašyta vaizduote paremta prieitis prie niuansuoto, gyvybe pulsuojančio vaidmens nustebina mane kaskart, kai vėl paskaitau šią knygą. Labai rekomenduoju.
An essential read for the performer. Indispensable understanding of what the art form is and how to discover its essence. One of the original thinkers in the modern theatre whose ideas changed and deepened the art form changing theatre itself.
I thought acting is just pretending to be someone your not was a good enough method. It's the Sir Ian McKellen way. Went very slow with this book because there was much highlightable material. Great read for actors or those who want to understand the craft of acting
delicious discoveries from the greatest teacher in technique for the actor.
I own the hardcover its been so long since I read it so I probably should again. However I recall liking it.He was reknown for being awsome.
Genial.
I own a copy of it in Portuguese. Excellent insight into the craft of acting and good proposed practical exercises
didn't help me much
my favorite book about acting
i want to read this book
changed the way i see and do performance
One of the least natural approaches to acting I've ever learned, but not without a certain sense of poetry.
You really need a teacher trained in Chekhov's style of acting to work with you to get the most out of this book.
Rocked my world. I've always been slightly out of sync with Stanislawski but didn't know why until I read this amazing book.
All aspiring actors should read this inspiring and informative book by Michael Chekhov. I've learned more in the past year from reading his work, than in my entire career.
Here is a text all actors must read, digest, and make part of their intuitive knowing.
