https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/603712.The_Summer_Game
He recaps each year’s World Series, but most of the highlights for me were the sections of local flavor, such as visiting Spring Training, describing the rollercoaster ride of a New York Mets fan, covering the early days of the Houston Astrodome, observing the arrival of “sports as entertainment” (which continues to this day), recounting the French terms used by the dual-language Montreal Expos, putting forth views on expansion and the attendant increase in playoffs (which was just beginning back then), and relating the sights and sounds of what it was like to attend games in various stadiums across the country.
The last essay, The Inner Stadium, explores the timelessness of baseball, and how events and players can be clearly recalled from memory no matter how much time has passed.
While his prose about the action on the diamond is worth the price of the book alone, his writing on so many baseball topics is also a joy to read.
Many times Angell explains why baseball is the best game, and I will use two quotes from the book to show how he felt about the game.
It is the perfect book for readers who have not read any of his work to pick up and start enjoying.
If the reader has read this book, it is well worth the time to pick up again, as it is one that I will re-read as the winter continues.
Missing Link between my father's dalliance with baseball through the mid-60's and the game I came to know and love as a child of the 80's.
Expansion, the move indoors, and the protracted competition for Americans' attention and entertainment dollar that baseball once took for granted are chronicled with prose that isn't argumentative for the Good Old Days or manipulatively emotional.
Instead, Angell uses a light, lyrical style to look in on the game year-by-year, usually at World Series that lend themselves to such reflective and undistracted attention.
Worth reading twice, for a guy who doesn't usually do that.
in the nearly two dozen essays that compose the summer game, each of which originally appeared in the new yorker over a span of ten years (1962-1972), angell waxes eloquent about our beloved national pastime.
the timeless and enduring quality of baseball is, of course, one of its defining characteristics, and angell's essays demonstrate (here now from a vantage point fifty years later) the duality of the resolute and adaptable nature of the game itself.the summer game stands in stunning contrast to so much of the sports writing that has come to populate sports pages and websites throughout the country today.
Add to that list Angell’s “The Summer Game.” The book, a collection of essays Angell originally penned for “New Yorker” magazine in the 1960s and early 1970s, recreates an era both nostalgic and immediate.
Angell puts you in the stands right next to him.Angell’s writing reveals his love of the language as much as it showcases his love of the game of baseball.
If you love baseball, read this book, and lose yourself in the sublime.
They have responded with eager gallantry-often of the kind once displayed by Eton sixth-formers taking to the air against Baron von Richthofen." And while watching the 65 World Series after the Twins went up 2-0, he made this observation: "The fans around me were all laughing and hooting,'it's all over now'.
NOBODY like him." And then there is the last chapter especially the last page which brought me to chills.
Read that chapter and the last page and you will understand Angell's love affair with this game above any other.
After the recent hard fought election, with two wars going on and a financial melt-down of immense proportions, it was just nice to take myself back to a less stressful time, not only for the country but also for baseball.In fact the only World Series game I've ever attended was in 1962 when the San Francisco Giants played the N.Y. Yankees in a seven game nail biter.
Angell writes about this series and even the game I attended.Reading Angell's description of the various players and situations, especially the World Series, over the decade the book covers, was very satisfying as there was hardly a name he mentioned that I didn't recognize.
He can bring alive the magic of 50 year old baseball and on the next page go into the play-by-play minutiae which I simply cannot appreciate for large doses.
All of it gets its day in here, albeit from the nostalgic point of view of someone who seems to appreciate the old days and the old fans a bit more.
Baseball is harder than that; it requires a full season, hundreds and hundreds of separate games, before quality can emerge, and in that summer span every hometown fan, every doomed admirer of underdogs will have his afternoons of revenge and joy.
This is the most beautifully written, smartly felt baseball book I've ever encountered, and it's probably in the five best non-fiction collections I've read. I cannot possibly recommend it enthusiastically enough. Angell is a treasure.
Roger Angell is my favorite writer on the sport of baseball.This is his first published baseball book, containing his pieces from The New Yorker.
Angell, like his stepfather E.B.White, is a terrific prose writer and brings out the most wonderful descriptions of ballplayers, the sport itself, and what it is like to be a fan.
As the book jacket says, the 1960s were a major era of transition for baseball and it is covered well under the observant eye of Angell and coupled to his elegant prose.If you're going to read one writer on baseball, then Angell is your best choice.
I read a few of his baseball books in the mid seventies, well shy of being a teenager, and I remember they were among my all time favorites.
This spring Amazon featured a deal where The Summer Game and two other of Angell's baseball books were available for Kindle download for the price of $2.99.
Last night I finished The Summer Game, in which the author writes about the baseball seasons from 1961 to 1971.
Angell, it seems now, was uniquely qualified to write about the love of baseball and, at the same time, to examine the many weights it was struggling under in the sixties.
I read it from time to time when I'm nostalgic for a time when baseball was not about multi-millionaires, the designated hitter, and stupidly ineffective rules purported to "speed up the game".
But, most of all, it's a story about the love that Mr. Angell has for the National Pastime.In the end, the best thing I can say is that, pre-Angell, I was a Pirates fan; post-Angell, I became a baseball fan.
And, while this is ancient history to many now, it is still a worthwhile read, if only to remember a time when the most important thing in baseball was the game played between the lines.
He focuses mostly on playoffs and world series, but there's also some discussion about the labor and racial strife that plagued the game during this time, and some coverage of the regular season and the "future of the game." There's a lot of Mets coverage, as Angell was both a fan and frequent commenter on the team from their inception.I really wanted to like this book more.
I'm a huge baseball fan and this wasn't an era where I knew a lot of the details beyond the end of season results.
Some of the essays were brilliant, and I definitely learned a lot.

I spent the better part of the summer slowly working my way through this one, but I really enjoyed it. The writing is funny and dry and lyrical about the game without being sentimental. It may be the first non-fiction baseball book I've read and that's ridiculous, considering how much I claim to love the game. I very much enjoyed learning more about a time in baseball history with which I am pretty unfamiliar. I especially like reading about the '67 Red Sox, the Impossible Dream Team. I look forward to reading more Roger Angell.
An amazing read that shares Angell's talent for taking baseball and making it into a literary work of art. Also, this volume shares the transition of baseball from an event you had to experience in person or on the radio into the spectacle you can be entertained at the ballpark without even watching the game or watch on prime time TV.
I did not want to put this one down. The author follows baseball in the 60s and highlights many postseason matchups and also spends time with the Mets with their inept 1962 team and world champion 1969 team. Can not think of too many better books for the summer pastime.
Some of the best writing on baseball ever committed to print
Good collection of baseball essays. Unfortunately, he wrote about a lot of teams that I knew very little about.
Sublime reading.
It takes readers back in time, seems nostalgic, but don't be fooled.
Those games, players,seasons, did really happen.
It wasn't myth.
Sadly, these days baseball doesn't fit our attention spans or pace of living.
Players today are most likely to be Latino, with African-Americans fewer and whites and other "ethnic groups" less.
In any event, reading about the best and worst of players endears readers to the nearly forgotten stars of yore.
For those who enjoy books of the sport's past, some of the unusual books like "Outsider Baseball" and any on the "negro baseball" era are well rewarding.
Roger Angell is quite simply the best baseball writer that ever lived.
Ford, with his short, businesslike windup, was all shoulders and quickness, while, behind him, Spahn would slowly kick his right leg up high and to the left, peering over his shoulder as he leaned back, and then deliver the ball with an easy, explosive sweep.
Watching this game were perhaps a dozen other players- some in uniform, some not, some in stocking feet or with towels draped around their necks- and a good many wives and children and their babies.
Now, at last, Alex Santiago hit the ball, and everybody cheered.
Beautifully written collection of essays from the 60s and early 1970s that not only captures a really great era of baseball - with a focus on the World Series - but functions as an impressionistic history of the period when the old system gave way to the big money era characterized by expansion, moving franchises, clashes between big and small market teams, and labor strife. It's actually remarkable how much this era was dominated by teams that would soon be considered small market (Cincinnati, Pittsburgh, Baltimore, Minnesota, St. Louis, etc.).
This was quite a good study of how good writing (sports or otherwise) used to be done.
This is a collection of essays written by him in a period covering the years 1960 to 1971, or so.I really enjoyed reading this prose and also the memories of events that I never saw directly but either read about it in a newspaper, heard others talk about, or heard it on the radio.
Always brings back my earliest memory of professional baseball: hearing Vin Scully's voice on KROP radio in Brawley and his play calling.
He finds a framed motto on the wall and reproduces it verbatim in his book“Life is like a journey taken on a trainWith a pair of travelers at each window pane.I may sit beside you all the journey through,Or I may sit elsewhere never knowing you.But if fate should mark me to sit by your sideLet’s be pleasant travelers, it’s so short a ride.”In our time, we even hesitate to suggest the team that won wasn't necessarily the best.
Why this ever present proclivity to brush off the suggestion with a brusque, "If they were really the best, they would've won." Where has the romance gone?
He is quick on the base paths, but this is an attribute that is about as essential for catchers as neat handwriting." "Reasonable hope cannot be constructed out of such a sad pile of feathers, but the lifelong Red Sox fan is not a reasonable man." "The Series had given us so many of these Brooksian masterpieces, in fact, that I found myself beginning to collect and compare them in memory, like Vermeers." This volume covers Angells' essays on baseball from the 1962 to 1971 seasons, and touches upon events on and off the field.
He brings the baseball fan through the games growing pains of the '60's, with league expansion, franchise moves, listening to the game via radio or actual attendance to watching it on television, all the changes, even the year of the pitcher, the year of the hitter, and the so called demise of the game due to football.I originally found this book at a yard sale, $.25 was what I spent.
Better deal than winning tickets to any Cardinal or Yankee World Series.
The Royals, well, the book isn't the better deal compared with a Series they would play in.
Read this to honor the start of the baseball season, just to get me further excited.
The book is a collection of essays/articles written by Angell, primarily in the 1960s, and early 1970s, about baseball.
Angell's writing style is easy to read, and I think he accurately captures the essence of what attracts baseball fans to the game - the sounds, the feel, the complexities.
Angell's writing is thoughtful, and gets at the intricacies and small moments that us fans love about the game of baseball.
An enjoyable, if very New Yorker-ish series of essays about pro baseball, originally written between 1962 and 1971.
At times its somewhat stuffy and at others it's completely wrong-headed, but by and large it's an enjoyable book.
It's mostly Angell recapping each season's world series, but the ones where he tackles other ideas make for the best reading: A look at the hapless 1962 Mets, visits to spring training.
The last essay, The Inner Stadium, a piece on enjoying baseball during the offseason, is quite good.
Recommended for baseball fans, especially those who don't mind recaps.
A classic baseball book, collecting articles Angell wrote for the New Yorker from 1962 to 1972.
Angell muses on numerous aspects of baseball: the awful beginnings and eventual triumphs of the New York Mets, the advent of domed stadiums, spring training in Florida, the decline of the mighty Yankees, and players from Mays and Clemente to Koufax and Gibson.
The Summer Game is simply one of the best baseball books I've ever read, and I'm eager to read more of Angell.
I loved Roger Angell's short stories.
His articles in the New Yorker over the years have been gems.
I love baseball, as does he.
He has such a talent for writing that he makes even the simplest parts of the game of baseball extrememely interesting.
That said, the Summer Game was a little hard for me to read.
It was written about a time that I was not alive for, and it seemed a lot of knowledge about the time was required to really get into this book.
Overall, I really enjoyed the book, but it seems his short stories are more my type!
