https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16113737-the-reason-i-jump
(Note: I have autism)I have to admit, I was on the verge of crying at some partsbecause this book is everything I've wanted to tell the world but didn't know howit made me understand myself a bit better, because like the author, I am not always sure why I do the things I doIt is one of those books I want as many as people as possible to read, to try and understand people with autism a bit better, and get rid of misconceptions.
The book reads like a FAQ of questions that anybody especially a parent of children with Autism or Asperger Syndrome have asked/shouted at their children about why they keep doing certain things.
this book did help at the very least it told me that many of the things I questions e.g.
Yes they might keep doing the same thing when they are told not to, but you still have to keep telling them not to till maybe on the ten million and one time it might get through to the child then they know it for life.
Reading it felt as if, for the first time, our own son was talking to us about what was happening inside his head, through Naoki's words." The book is structured in short sections, with Naoki responding to questions about common behaviors of autistic people.
To make myself understood, it's like I have to speak in an unknown foreign language, every minute of every day."Naoki justifies why autistic people often avoid looking people in the eye when they're talking.
My biggest takeaways from this book are that autistic people are much more empathetic than the literature shows, and how hard they are working to try and control their bodies and their thoughts.
Higashida claims that people with autism are ‘like travellers from the distant, distant past’ who have come ‘to help the people of the world remember what truly matters for the Earth’.""I believe that my son enjoys swimming pools because he likes water, not because, in the fanciful speculations of Higashida, he is yearning for a ‘distant, distant watery past’ and that he wants to return to a ‘primeval era’ in which ‘aquatic lifeforms came into being and evolved’.""I fear that the translation and endorsement of this book reinforces more myths than it challenges.
But I have come around to agreeing with the pioneering Austrian paediatrician Hans Asperger that ‘the autist is only himself’ - there is nobody trapped inside, no time traveller offering redemption to humanity."
I find it hard to believe most of this book.First, as a speech therapist, I am puzzled as to why Naoki can read aloud but have such severe difficulties speaking to people despite having such well-developed language and great insight into his difficulties.
He seems to have it all figured out and yet, being just one step away from making changes to his communication style, he settled into using an alphabet board (not the most efficient way of communication for someone who has obviously a lot to say).Secondly, Naoki appears to employ the theory of mind too well for a 13 year old who is "severely autistic" as most reviews have made him out to be.
It feels like half of it is the genuine thoughts and explanations for autism by an unusually intelligent child who suffers from severe autism.
(view spoiler)[I am a bit fed up with the memoirs of people who live quite independently in the world and write their stories of autism when it is quite obvious that they have Asperger's, a much milder form.
Either autism is a personality disorder that like all personalities is quite different from individual to individual - not even identical twins share a personality, or all autistic individuals suffer from a variety of locked-in syndrome.
Basically, some people have criticized novelist David Mitchell for possibly embellishing some of the author's writing (he has said he “provided the stylistic icing on the cake” of the translation), and others have noted that author Higashida claims to speak for all autistic people but is clearly not representative of them.
Not all neurotypical people are gifted novelists like David Mitchell; by the same token, not all autistic people are as eloquent as Higashida, and many may not have access to the kind of perception he shows here.
I thought the question and answer format with fictional works inserted in between was very to-the-point and interesting.
But that's also the troubling thing; a lot of readers who have autism or mothers of autistic children are suspicious that this book was embellished during its conception and its translation.
Many of the positive reviews are from mothers or siblings or relatives of people with autism saying, "I finally know what's it's like for them!" but this could be misinformation.
If you are a person with autism who has read this book or are interested in reading it, I'd love to know how accurate or inaccurate it is!
Indeed the intense self-reflection displayed in this book brought to mind some comments of my own son, when he remarked, in intense frustration, "That's another theory down the drain." It turned out that, like an experimental scientist, he formed hypotheses about people's behaviour and emotions, and then tested them out against observation, and he did this again and again and again.
In short, as a short, impressionistic account of what the ASC mind is like in childhood, this book is the best I have read.
If you have an ASC child, or know one, you should read it.
I was skeptical because I have lived through other such "assisted communication" systems such as the one Naoki has reportedly benefitted from, all discredited, as we discover well meaning people, parents and teachers and other caregivers all helping, ala Ouija board, maybe, to speak with or for the child.
I want to believe each and every story, because I want to know what Sammy is feeling and thinking.
Naoki, or whoever is writing, generalizes like crazy about "we" kids with autism, and how "we" are feeling… is it possible he really thinks his experience is largely universal?
Kim Peek, who wasn't actually autistic (not all people with autism are savants and not all savants are autistic), came to our school and performed some of his fantastic feats of memory.
It took years and a lot of other experiences with kids who were autistic, or family members who are on the "spectrum," to recognize that Kim Peek was just one manifestation of how the wide and deep the differences are in the way our brains are organized.Autism, the last few years, has finally gained a bit of ground.
3.) Written by a 13-year-old boy from Japan, this book was translated by David Mitchell.
(I got choked up just reading the introduction.) Using an alphabet grid and pointing to different letters, Higashida was able to communicate replies to a series of common questions about people with autism.
Not only was it really informative, but Higashida had written a few short stories that were placed throughout the book.
Reading those totally debunked the crazy theory that people with autism don't understand emotions or can't feel any empathy.
I love being able to gain any amount of understanding about autism, and this book definitely provided that.

I'm not an expert on autism so I am completely unqualified to determine if Naoki wrote this book with or without help or the over arching truth of his experiences.
Who can really say that they are able to communicate for a whole group of people- at the end of the day, you can only really speak for yourself.Naoki talks about difficulties in communicating his feelings, the beauty of nature, the impossibility of controlling his emotions or repetitive actions- knowing that he's not behaving "normally" but not able to do anything about it.
I don't know why we can't talk properly.
I certainly learned about Naoki's inner world from this book.
I've read a lot of first-person accounts of autism.
It was, in fact, a very frustrating book to read.
To a primeval era, in fact, before human beings even existed.
All people with autism feel the same about this one, I reckon.
Aquatic life-forms came into being and evolved, but why did they then have to emerge onto dry land, and turn into human beings who chose to lead lives ruled by time?
These are real mysteries to me...People with autism have no freedom.
The reason is that we are a different kind of human, born with primeval senses.
As a parent with a child on the spectrum, this was an extremely useful book.
I sort of wish that my son would write his own version for me to read, but this book was a definite reminder to hold onto my patience and understand that obeying instructions is not such a simple matter of listening and following but involves a complex journey in the mind of an autistic child.
The book was fascinating about voices too and why an autistic child prefers not to engage in eye contact.
I would say this is a 'must read'.

Remember, these are supposedly his words:~ "there is another way to say what you want without using the vocal nervous system"~ true compassion is not about bruising the other person's self respect"~ "the thought that our lives are the source of other people's unhappiness, that's plain unbearable"~ "people with autism are born outside the regime of civilization"~ "we are...different in many ways.
We are more like travelers from a distant, distant past"~ " when we look at nature we receive a sort of permission to be alive in this world and our entire bodies get recharged"~ "what truly matters for the Earth, that would give us quiet pleasure"Eye roll.
Several questions that were posed were repetitive, just asked in a slightly different way.
The Reason I Jump   is the memoir of a Japanese boy,  Naoki Higashida  who, at the time of its writing, was thirteen. Naoki, who is autistic and writes with the aid of a visual alphabet card, offers his answers to a series of questions (including, of course, "What's the reason you jump?"). I knew nothing about this book prior to coming across it as a daily deal on Audible, where it aroused 99 cents worth of my curiosity. I certainly wasn't disappointed as I had no real expectations going in (s
Naoki, who is autistic and writes with the aid of a visual alphabet card, offers his answers to a series of questions (including, of course, "What's the reason you jump?").
His answers offer some phenomenological insight as to what it must be like for someone with certain sensory differences to experience the world, much in the way that Jill Bolte Taylor's 
While I certainly don't fault Naoki for this, the tendency to answer questions by statements beginning with "we," hints at what seems to be a point of contention around this book.
I agree with the generalizations bit but, putting that aside, there is value in this read and I enjoyed it.The structure of the book is in an easy Question and Answer format addressing some of the most common questions people familiar with a person on the spectrum wonders.Questions like:Do I want to or like being alone?Why do I like to watch things spin?Why do I ask the same questions over and over?Why don't I use eye contact?Why do I wiggle my fingers in front of my eyes?Why do I make noises?Do I want to be touched?Why can't I speak?Why do I have meltdowns?Why do I line things up?Why do I cover my ears?Why do I bolt?Why do I like water?Why do I like doing the same things repeatedly?and so on...The answers are straight forward, interesting, and articulate.
Higashida’s sharing of experience brought Mitchell a renewed sense of purpose, patience, and energy in dealing with the often-overwhelming and exhausting experience of raising a child with autism.This offering of insight, of a look into the mind of someone who has a significant degree of autism may even by itself be a reason to read this book.
He also creates short stories, perhaps for reasons similar to why he writes other experiences and, in fact, this book: to better understand himself and his autism.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/I’d feel bad about giving a 1 Star rating to a book written by a 13 year old if I believed at all that a 13 year old actually wrote this book. Since I do not I have zero guilt.  I see The Reason I Jump as yet another outlet that has adults manipulating a child in order to advance their own personal agenda (*cough* Heaven is for Real *cough*). I believe Naoki’s mother, as well as David Mitchell and his wife, used Naoki’s alphabet board
I believe Naoki’s mother, as well as David Mitchell and his wife, used Naoki’s alphabet board more like a Ouija Board and interpreted responses given in the way they wanted to hear them.
All people with autism feel the same about this one, I reckon.”
Seriously?????They (the adults) also made the decision to continue the abuse use of this “we/us” terminology with respect to all of Naoki’s answers to paint everyone that falls on the autism spectrum with the same broad brush.
If this book teaches people to have more tolerance or understanding of those who fall on the spectrum, that is wonderful.
He points out that before this book, autism-related autobiographical works came from authors like Temple Grandin, adults that had already sorted things out.
People with autism see and sense your frustration and it only makes them feel worse, because inside they are truly trying.
He is now speaking for all people with autism, too?Of his fondness for being outdoors:Just by looking at nature, I feel as if I'm being swallowed up into it, and in that moment I get the sensation that my body's now a speck, a speck from long before I was born, a speck that is melting into nature herself.
I read this book because I hoped to gain a better understanding of an autistic neighbour who lives near me. But what I actually discovered was that I have a lot more in common with autistic people than I realised. Some of the ways in which I see and experience the world are the same as some of the ways Naoki describes in the book. And his little short stories are so beautiful. So, as well as helping me understand my neighbour, this book helped me feel better about myself.
To demand such familiarity with a book like this is simply absurd, and I had to overcome this absurdity through the 2 hours it took me to read this little book.Instead, this book is structured like a long FAQ list about autistic behavior, with Naoki trying to answer each FAQ from his own perspective.
The clear purpose of the book is to bring the autistic perspective closer to the understanding of "normal" people.
Anyone who lives or knows an autistic person would benefit from this book, as well as any researcher who may want an opinion a little less...
This book is just brilliant.I don't know anyone who is autistic, and if I ever meet them, I have to admit, I don't really know what to do.
What better way to find out more than reading this, a book about autism written by an autistic child?This book addresses everything you want it to in terms of the social aspects of children with autism.
How a child feels about their own autism, how other people feel about their autism, it explains the little quirks (e.g. enjoying spinning around and television adverts)of some autistic children, and answers questions you always wanted to ask or may not have even thought to ask.
I read it in one sitting and I'm about to pass it on to my fifteen-year-old son who is autistic, and then to his father and stepmother in hopes that it will resonate with my son and help him to feel less alone, and with hopes that his other parents will finally understand him better.I've read lots of books with autistic characters, finding that sometimes fiction is more helpful in revealing the unique characteristics exhibited by those on the autism spectrum and their often profound and beautiful way of perceiving the world.
But how has Naoki learned some of the concepts that are written in this book?
But how can a child with a simple vocabulary of spoken words, and who prefers simple picture books learn about these concepts?
However I struggle with the difficulties of abstract concepts and explanations to give My son.
But do I keep trying with the explanation, assuming there's a genius inside like Naoki?
Or do I take it at face value, that he has made a word association and Not understood an abstract concept and simplify the explanation?I haven't got any answers.
How to write an honest review on this? I'll try anyway. This book was moving. Although hard to believe that it was written by a thirteen year old. But I found his descriptions of his thoughts and perceptions very very interesting. He reminded me that things we take for granted maybe for other people are very strange and vice versa.They reminded me of the books of Daniel Tammet (if you don't know his books, check them out. They are incredible beautiful and illuminative!).
A survey of autism, as written by a 13-year-old autistic boy. This book gave me a number of insights into how the mind of an autistic person functions and how heavily impactful upon such a person's emotions the syndrome is. This is a brief, simple, yet compelling book, worth reading for anyone who wants better to understand autism from the "inside."
