https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1018008.To_Be_A_Jew
Well it is very Orthodox. Makes a lot of sense though if truth be told. Maybe I am much more Orthodox than I thought.
I read this book early in my exploration of religious judaism, and found it entirely unhelpful.
However, I suspect mostly it is a clash of worldviews.
Hayim Halevy Donin's book was just overwhelmingly orthodox for me as I was first encountering religious Judaism.
His worldview clashed with mine, not only because of his orthodoxy, because there are plenty of orthodox Jews with relatively similar world-views to mine, but because of some...
I don't really know what, but radically different outlook on life.
This book just pushed my buttons.(Note, I would consider myself a feminist and a Masorti/conservative Jew, if that's relevant.)
Ridiculously informative. I recommend this book for natural Jews, gerim, or just those who are generally curious.
I'm still working on this book. I needed to start over from the beginning because it's been several years since I left off.
read too long ago
Rabbi Donin appears to have no sympathy for Jews who find strict observance difficult or impossible, but he does invite Jews from less observant backgrounds to learn and practice according to the traditional ways.Personally, I found the book interesting because I didn't know most of it.
I also appreciated learning about the orthodox perspective on Jewish spirituality.
The traditional approach leaves less room for wondering about the nature or existence of God, and instead places more emphasis on perfecting religious observance according to the edicts of the Torah and the writings of the ancient rabbis.
Like, "homosexuality, [...] lead[s] to the decay of the people and the contamination of the land." p124.
The book could have been a little less condescending in its discussion of people who don't follow all mitzvot to the letter too.
Like, there's nothing wrong with saying you believe it's wrong to drive on Shabbat, even if you're going to synagogue.
It's another to talk about people who do drive to synagogue on Shabbat like they just don't care about the sanctity of Shabbat or the continuation of Judaism as a culture.
interesting and educational about some of the ways of 'some' of the descendants of Judah (or their purported descendants).
Excellent Lenten reading. I learned a lot.
Easy writing style and great explanations - a good resource.
Very practical and helpful!! especially for someone who wants to convert to Judaism or for a jew who forgot his/her jewish practices.
To Be A Jew: A Guide To Jewish Observance In Contemporary Life by Hayim H. Donin (1991)
Trully amazing work I read this over and over, over the years!,
First read in late 1980s. Currently using as a guide for teaching basic Jewish outlook and practice.
goofd
