https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10644930-11-22-63
Go ahead, book snobs. Proclaim haughtily that Stephen King is not Literature. I shall retort with a Pratchett quote,  "Susan hated Literature. She'd much prefer to read a good book."  And nobody argues with Sir Terry.(Since 'a picture is worth a thousand words', the above is a three-thousand-words summary of this book. Impressive, no? And also - dancing is life.)As you probably guessed from the not-too-spoiler-sensitive title, 11/22/63 is a book about time travel. My love for it is an exception
And so Jake Epping, an English teacher, sets out to spend half a decade in the past to prevent the assassination of JFK (and to figure out whether Lee Harvey Oswald was indeed the lone gunman that day, despite all the conspiracy theories).
(*) And we get plenty of these in this book, as Jake's quest to prevent that fateful shot in November in Dallas takes him along the way to the small towns of Derry, Maine and Jodie, Texas.
I loved how Oswald was described as not a villain or a nutcase but a flawed broken little man who stumbled into the middle of events that changed history.
When I got to the last couple of pages, I was crying so hard I couldn't read.11/22/63 is a supernatural, quasi-historical, philosophical, science-fiction love story.
If you're avoiding it because you think Stephen King only writes horror, please reconsider.
*There is time travel -- Stephen King-style, with some original twists on the old device.
*There is a special treat for fans of It, King's novel about Pennywise the Clown.*There is a charming (yet brutally honest) portrayal of American life in the late 50s and early 60s.*There is DANCING!*There is pie-throwing!*There is sweet romance without sappiness.*There is poundcake!*There is derring-do!
Because dancing is life.
Look at the amount of pages in this book.
Look at the amount of pages in Under The Dome.
Check the date this book is published.
Check the date Under The Dome was published.
King outlines a clear end goal, and the novel benefits enormously as the journey to that destination unfolds.
King has stated the book's idea came to him in 1971, yet at the time didn't have enough confidence in his skill or ability to properly pull something like this off.
“We never know which lives we influence, or when, or why.” I still fail to understand why Stephen King isn't considered a writer of "respected literature". Because he writes sci-fi and horror? Because his books are so compelling, entertaining and popular? For me, King does what very few authors manage - he turns fast-paced genre fiction into well-written, thought-provoking literature. And 11/22/63 is no exception. I've been putting this book off for the last few years; partly because it's an 80
I've been putting this book off for the last few years; partly because it's an 800+ page giant, and partly because I studied the hell out of Kennedy and 1950s/60s America back in high school.
What is the cost of doing so?); it's a small town thriller; and it's a love story.King has this strange way of turning the most fantastical plots into stories about people who feel very real.
Unlike some of King's other works, the 800 pages didn't feel like too much to me and they just seemed to fly by.
So that’s no problem, either.Anyway, once I (view spoiler)[save JFK and am thanked with a lifetime supply of beer, I will finally return to the present.
And yet even though there is no plausible reason whatsoever for this to be the case (hide spoiler)], I will nonetheless accept it as true and simply go back a-fucking-GAIN just to undo what I spent 800 pages doing.And that is my story.Except actually it isn’t.
Now that I’ve returned more or less permanently to the back-to-normal present, I have decided to hunt down my former lover like the psychopath that I am and dance with her one last time.
You may ask yourself how in the world did a wife beating, mental degenerate, and multiple country defecting (USA, RUSSIA and an attempt at Cuba) little shit like this kill the charismatic, handsome war hero, and most powerful man in the world. It doesn't make any sense. It never has made any sense. Oswald just does not fit the profile for a guy that could pull off an assassination of this magnitude. He's a semi-educated hillbilly, but he's surprisingly crafty."Kennedy provided a golden opportuni
kill the charismatic, handsome war hero, and most powerful man in the world.
He's a semi-educated hillbilly, but he's surprisingly crafty."Kennedy provided a golden opportunity to every disgruntled crazy out there by deciding to ride in an open car through the hostile city of Dallas, Texas.
When Lee Harvey Oswald noticed that the route passed right by the Texas School Book Depository, his place of work, he felt the universe was talking to him.
I'm off to turn my time travel machine, nearly finished, back into something a little less dangerous to the world like a cappuccino machine.
It's also true that I have never read a single thing from Mr. King until now.
There were also several sighs of relief and a couple of cute moments involving Jake's romance that just made me say "aww".I do feel like there were a rough 100ish pages that dragged on somewhere in the middle, and the book may have benefited by taking out a few things, but obviously I'm no expert.
Again, this may have also been just something I was feeling, because I was very impatient and really wanting to know how this book would end.
If you are wanting to try a Stephen King book, but don't know if you will like all the horror, read this!
Reading this book, I was so worried about what the ending would be (because, let's be honest here, we know King isn't the best at handling endings...
And if you aren't a King fan, please (pretty please) don't let that stop you from reading this book.
So, please, even if you don't like Stephen King, read this!
It's an absolutely beautiful book, and one I wish I can read for the first time all over again.
I LOVED IT!There's two main story lines: 1)The Romance story (with wonderful well developed characters)2)Stop A major event in U.S. History (its all well plotted throughout the book)Both mixed together in some very intelligent--satisfying ways.Stephen King knows how to blend the supernatural with history better than your average author.
(celebrates nostalgic also without being sassy about it).I'm often not a fan of time travel fiction reading ---but Stephen King improves this type of storytelling by adding themes, choices, and consequences in his story.
He does the butterfly effect trope creating ripples throughout time and improves on this by making time fight back, the past in 11/22/63 does not want to be changed.
(this makes no sense to anyone unless you've read the book).....
A couple of times it felt like the story was starting over and I was a few hundred pages in!
Well, the character development, interaction, and dialogue definitely felt like King.
But, in the end, I feel like the book is in a class all by itself that is not really like any other King book I have read before.It is not horror.
Either way I hope you enjoy – just know you cannot go back and change the fact that you took the time to read it .
I’m getting very nervous that you’re going to wipe me out of existence or something.”“I told you, Kemper, we did a few trial runs where we saved people from some ugly fates and then went back to the future and everything was fine.”“Still, you’re talking about saving a guy who is going to have a huge impact on history with no idea of how it will play out.”“Don’t worry, Al spent a lot of time thinking about this and doing research.
The worlds on both sides of the time-travel line were utterly realistic, but where King really showed his masterful hand was with the threads throughout the novel that wove it all together, from the Yellow Card Man to the janitor’s father to JFK and Lee Harvey Oswald themselves.
He infused this glimpse at this time period with realistic strokes of segregation and poverty in his portrayal—truly showing us the world through King-colored glasses.
I resist giving this one 4 ½ stars to pay for that annoyance that I experienced, because the rest of the work was so phenomenally done that it would honestly border on being petty.
Jake Epping, a high school English teacher living in Lisbon Falls, Maine, seems to enjoy his vocation along with the very cheap burgers at Al’s Diner made fresh daily by owner Al Templeton.
As Jake listens closely he is extremely skeptical and shocked about Al’s request; he wants him to go on a journey.
For the most part the story moves along at a gentle speed, no rushing, no fast action, just an easy going way of telling a profound heartfelt tale.
However, when you least expect it the story line takes an abrupt turn with nail biting, breath-taking moments.
Sure does throw a wrench into things!And then, there's the love story.
You know that scene in 40 Year Old Virgin where he's talking about how boobs feel like bags of sand, and everyone's like, ".....?" That's what reading Stephen King's sex scenes is like.
One could make the case that, because Stephen King is a dude, it's impossible for him to know what first-time sex is like for a woman, but you don't have to be exposed to too many books or movies or TV shows to know that it fucking sucks.
There's no "OhmygodYES" the first time you have sex as a woman.
(hide spoiler)]Since the part where he tries to stop Kennedy's assassination doesn't happen until about 750 pages into the book, King compensates by having other characters behave in very violent ways.
All of which means that instead of King doing the thing that people tend to find intriguing when reading alternate histories--giving his answer to "what really would have happened with Vietnam and Civil Rights and all that if Kennedy hadn't been shot?"--he's got a few alternate leaders in power, sure, but he makes them deal with lots of random catastrophes in the physical world, and resulting catastrophes among populations, that didn't happen in the real timeline (hide spoiler)].
I would probably go back to when I started high school and make wiser decisions.I would have loved to have heard the conversations between Stephen King, his wife and their son, Author Joe Hill.
The way King describes the characters in this makes them very believable and ones you become attached to.
It was interesting the way King wrote fiction/non fiction/science fiction/love story all together in one book and it flowed without any effort.
It keeps you guessing a lot of the time which I liked.Overall, this book is phenomenal.
I can tell King did a lot of research on this book, but now I want to know more.
So much fun!!!Steven King has a lot going on here in 11/22/63 as we have some time-traveling, political history, and also a little bit of romance in this Historical Fiction Thriller novel that had us all engaged, interested, and rooting for a positive outcome but we must admit that we found ourselves a little bored at times.
We were completely caught off guard that this turned out to be somewhat of a love story – not what we were expecting at all and we absolutely loved that part of the novel.Toward the end, we all kept looking for a twist that never came and felt that while we enjoyed the story, the book didn't quite live up to the hype we had expected.All of our Traveling Sister Reads Reviews can be found on our blog:http://www.twogirlslostinacouleereadi...
WOW! What a great read! UNPUTDOWNABLE! My favorite book of the year thus far. Highly recommend!Occam's Razor - the simplest explanation is usually the right one.Update: February 15, 2016 - Watched the first episode on HULU.......Yikes! Get ready for some action-packed scenes that "jump" out at you and some super scary dudes from hell! Can't wait to get back to it, but want to stretch out the series to last! Update: June 4, 2016 - Wow! Oh! Wow! Excellent!  Enjoyed a marathon day of all 8 episodes
WOW! What a great read! UNPUTDOWNABLE! My favorite book of the year thus far. Highly recommend!Occam's Razor - the simplest explanation is usually the right one.Update: February 15, 2016 - Watched the first episode on HULU.......Yikes! Get ready for some action-packed scenes that "jump" out at you and some super scary dudes from hell! Can't wait to get back to it, but want to stretch out the series to last!
  Update: June 4, 2016 - Wow! Oh! Wow! Excellent!

  Enjoyed a marathon day of all 8 episodes of Season 1.

  Intense.....Powerful.....Action Packed!

  Don't Miss It!
"In fact I was just about to review it.""Stephen King's 11.22.63 – yes, that's the reason I'm here.""Huh?" "I'll come to the point, PB.
I got the idea of looking for a portal when I read this book.""Oh – anyway, you came from the very near future and you decided the most important thing to do was to stop me writing one particular review on Goodreads of one dubious Stephen King novel?
And now you – you're the last on my list.""So what's the big deal about my review of 11.22.63?""Well, you read the thing, so you know about the Butterfly effect, right?""Er, yes.
Not only with killing Kennedy but in his marriage as well.I’m NOW totally fascinated by the assignation and might be wearing a tinfoil hat soon.And lastly, Stephen King did get wordy, but I loved all the characters so much that I didn’t mind.
I found it a bit odd when he would do a woman’s voice in the beginning of the book but by the end, I loved every minute of it.
كم مرة فكرت في السفر عبر الزمن للماضيربما لعيش حياة أهدأ، أرخص، طبيعية وغنية اكثرربما لتصحيح خطأ ما..أو لتوقف حادثا ذو أثرا مروعا في تاريخ العالملكن نبش الماضي له ثمن..ثمن له قسوة الزمن ذاته “نصحت نفسي بينما أمضي: لا تنظر خلفك، لا تنظر خلفك أبدا. كم مرة يقولها الناس لأنفسهم بعد تجربة جيدة بشكل استثنائي (أو سيئة استثنائيا)؟كثيرا أعتقد. وعادة ما تذهب النصيحة أدراج الريح. تكون البشر لينظروا خلفهم؛ لذا لدينا مفصل دوار في أعناقنا” تلك الرواية الضخمة المتقنة، ”جحر الأرنب“، ستنقلك عبر الزمنوكما هي عادة

When a dying friend shows him a portal to 1958 in the back of his diner, Jake Epping finds himself venturing in the past with one goal in mind: Stopping Lee Harvey Oswald!
And can Jake stop him even if he did fire the shot that killed JFK?Once I got over Stephen King's throbbing erection for the late 1950's/early 1960's, I enjoyed this book immensely.
A lot of time travel stories neglect that.While I was reading this, my girlfriend, who forcibly recommended the book to me, asked what I would do with a time portal that functioned like this one, returning two minutes after you left no matter how much time you spent in the past.
And Al’s suicide and the realisation that the rabbit hole may disappear at any moment harden his resolution.However, what Jake didn’t expect was the Sunday punch the past had in store for him.Love… ***What I loved most about the book is the way Stephen King avoids the standard time travel clichés and paradoxes, and concentrates on the human aspects – and the nature of evil.Evil in small-town America is a pet theme of King’s: we have seen it surface again and again, as vampires, rabid dogs, insane murderers and even as clowns.
I think I lost a weekend and there is no way to go back in time to get it because I don't know where the rabbit hole is!
No way!I was a huge Stephen King fan in high school and gobbled up all of his books.
Who wouldn't want to know what the world would be like if John F.
Kennedy hadn't been shot?
and I was a little confused as to the events that supposedly would take place if Kennedy hadn't died ...
You must read this book and you must understand you will have no other desire to do anything else until it is finished!!
once again I was wrong and this time travel book was AWESOME!Jake Epping is having a normal day when his friend Al, who owns a diner, lets him in on a big secret.
Jake heads over a few times in the book just to get the feel of what he's trying to do.
well, all Stephen King fans know who or what is in Derry :-) This is actually one of my favorite, if not favorite parts of the book because not only does he go through some crazy stuff to help his friend...
I had the pleasure of being able to read this lengthy book along with my favourite Goodreads sisters, Brenda and Norma. It was an honour to be included in one of their 'sister reads'! Our rating/review is as follows:3.5 stars rounded up to 4 stars for the book5+++++++ stars for the reading experience for all of us participating in this ‘Traveling Sister Read’!! So much fun!!!To see our full review, please visit Norma and Brenda's book blog at https://twogirlslostinacouleereading....
You can't quit this, and you can't put it down.It's a giant something super delicious slipped between two covers and you can't devour it quickly enough.And it's startling.
And memorable.And the story races along, pretending it's just some white-knuckling, heart-racing, page-turning pulp fiction, but it sucker punches you.
Reminds you that Stephen King is classically trained, and he can wax poetic if he wants to.I read this 842 page book in 9 days, and I love it so much, I wish I'd written it.
It's a perfectly balanced mechanism of shouts and echoes pretending to be wheels and cogs, a dreamclock chiming beneath a mystery-glass we call life.
a brutal husband and a father.The stage is set the focal time 22nd November 1963, enter the main protagonist Jake Epping soon to be known as George Amberson down the Alice in Wonderland Rabbit Hole, the mission to rewrite history.
Feel immersed and enjoy a heart warming story of humanness.The beauty and skill of Stephen King's writing is he brings to the table ordinary individuals and pitches them against adversity, some are triumphant others not.
First of all, it's one of those stories that puzzles with your mind and makes you think: What if?
Secondly, this is one of King's novels that is NOT horror but more of a thriller, and I loved this shift in genre.
AND for those of you who are still a bit skeptical, this book has a beautiful romance story.
The novel contains some beautiful scenes which I did not see coming from Stephen King, and I was pleasantly surprised.Read it!
It will fly by despite its many pages, and it will puzzle with your mind and make you think differently on the past and the future.
What's worse is that the book was marketed as a time-traveling thriller when in fact it was just an opportunity for King to trash his political foes and blame them for all that is wrong in the world while at the same time completely ignore historical fact to idolize and worship Kennedy as some kind of peacenik when, in fact, he was not.
Maybe if King had spent less time focusing on his political views and more time on the execution of the story, we would have had something worthwhile here.
