https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1688590.We
I wonder how many people knew that Charles Lindbergh had written a book in 1927 shortly after he accomplished the remarkable feat of flying solo from New York to Paris?
Most of the book is taken up with Lindbergh telling his life story, his brief time as a student of Engineering at the University of Wisconsin, his initial training as a pilot in a flight school in Nebraska in 1922, his experiences barnstorming in the South and Midwest, his subsequent acceptance into the U.S. Army Air Service as an aviation cadet in 1924, his successful completion of his military training the following year (Lindbergh was made a reserve officer), followed by his service as an air mail pilot --- all of which led up to his undertaking the quest to carry out a transatlantic flight.
Charles A.
Lindbergh's autobiography up through his remarkable flight across the Atlantic in the Spirit of St. Louis (the other part of "We" of the title), to win the Ortieg prize in 1927.
A very readable and inspiring story of an individual's acheivement, and his affinity with a unique aircraft, perhaps the most famous plane and pilot of all time.My personal edition is the twenty-first impression of the first edition, December 1927; it was old and beat up when I read is a youngster, and my attentions didn't do it much good, but I cherish it fondly.
It's a terrific book!
Charles Lindbergh wrote this book soon after his famous historical non-stop flight from New York to Paris on May 20-21, 1927.
Many people have never flown in a plane and Lindbergh gave them the opportunity to have this new experience.Lindbergh also wrote a little bit about his early days of earning a living in stunt flying to impress audiences.
Lindbergh didn’t write in this book much about his experience with the Airforce, but says that afterwards he got a job as a mail pilot for the government.He was interested in flying across the Atlantic Ocean and participated in the Raymond Orteig contest to try and be the first pilot to successfully fly non-stop from New York to Paris.
Interesting to understand Lindbergh who was one of the most famous people in America during his time. The country needed a hero and he was a dashing, daring person who pushed the frontier of flight. Read it mostly due to the personal connection as he lived in Hana toward the end of his life and is buried there.
subject was great but the text was like a personal log of facts and events, extremely juvenile and dry. Amazing that he had written and published this the same year he made the flight. I am sure there are many other well-written books about these momentous events.
Read this long ago. Found out about the secrets of his personal life, and it ruined it for me.
This book caught my eye while I was browsing an antique store and the beauty of it is that it has local significance.
I was purely agape holding this first edition in my hands.Focusing on his life, Lindbergh details his accounts in this fascinating book.
This makes the book sound human and not just listing his accomplishments as a decorative pilot.
One of few who received the Royal Air Force wings and venerated non-combat pilot, Lindbergh a Little Falls, Minnesota native achieved something truly amazing.
Goes to show that Minnesota nice transcends all boundaries and does not take a back seat to fame.

After reading Scott Berg's "Lindbergh", I had to read the aviator's personal account, created in a hurry to get to press in 1927. It's fine - written with a staccato fact-fact-fact rhythm, but it's of an incredibly impactful event by the auteur of that event - the first non-stop trans-Atlantic flight. Lindbergh was to later pen "The Spirit of St. Louis" with the help of his wife, Anne Morrow Lindbergh, which I will eventually read as well. This one just give me real-time authentic historical context, which is what I was looking for.
This book is really old, I found this at my grandpa's house and there was writing inside and it was from my great great grandma to my great grandpa on his birthday so when I found it it their was a old gum wrapper inside and it was used as a book mark! Their was even some mold on the back since it was so old but even though it is old it is like a memory you can treasure forever. ;)
A simple but very enjoyable book. Lindbergh was not an author (obviously), but he doesn't pretend to be...he simply tells his story in a layman's voice giving us a personal peek inside the life of someone who made history.If you're looking for a weekend read with a historical and whimsy flavor..check this one out.
I have an old edition of this book and it is a one of my treasured books. I read this book in junior high most likely and loved it. This is a great first-hand story about the earlier days of aviation and the triumph of mankind in conquering new frontiers and setting records.
This is a beautiful book. The story of Lindbergh's Atlantic flight told simply and shortly after, before his fame became unmanageable. "We" refers to he and his plane. If you see the plane in Washington now, their accomplishment, pilot and plane, is virtually inconceivable.
Something in my reading of this book made a mark on my mind and heart which makes me remember WE as the true portrait of Lindbergh. I prefer this telling of his story, rather than his "The Spirit of St. Louis."
This was the first non picture book I ever read; I was just 5 and, as I've never reread it, my memory is pretty hazy. That was 64 years ago.
It is RARE for me to read a book completely in one day but I could not put this one down. A great read. History from the pilot himself
He showed that air can be conquered and not something to be feared.
Postponed (too fragile for plane)
Not great writing but truly a great first hand story. My copy is from the fourth printing of the first edition and I handle it gingerly.
