https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7831.Run_River
Entrambi, negli anni, avevano letto molto.Un amore che nella sua forza sembra quasi solo immaginario, nato quando Lily ed Everett sono ancora troppo giovani, e man mano trasformatosi nello scudo per nascondere le reciproche devastanti solitudini, la somma degli errori, i frammenti irrisolti di esistenze confuse, idillio finito sul nascere senza sapere perché.
È un incipit da sballo, un contrasto che racconta tutto, e contiene tutto.Lily come la Charlotte di Diglielo da parte mia fa della sua fragilità una corazza, è scissa tra cinismo e smarrimento, tra inerzia e fierezza:Lily non riusciva a immaginarsi con i capelli bianchi: intanto non aveva neanche trentasette anni, e poi aveva sempre considerato il suo stile straordinariamente fragile.
I love books where everyone drinks too much and it's always really hot out and people have names like Ryder Channing.
Este Río revuelto es un microcosmos de personajes complejos, imperfectos y muy humanos que te cogen en la primera página y no te sueltan...
Da igual que no los entiendas o que no llegues a empatizar con ellos, ni siquiera eres capaz de juzgarlos, ¿cómo hacerlo?Cuando comencé la lectura, con ese inicio tan impactante, no dejaba de rondarme aquella frase de  El año del pensamiento mágico: "Te sientas a cenar y la vida que conoces se acaba", no he dejado de pensar en ella hasta el final.
Lo hace de una manera tan clara y transparente que da igual que sean sus memorias o ficción, Joan siempre llega para quedarse.
Having fallen hard for Joan Didion during and right after college (and reading "The White Album," "Slouching Towards Bethlehem," "Play It As It Lays" in quick succession), I next moved to her first novel -- and found it to be a real slog.
Forty years later, in one of her very best books ("Where I Was From", 2003), Didion unpacks some of "Run River's" themes -- the dreamily misinformed self-made California pioneer essence -- and judges the novel more harshly than any of us ever will.

A stranger in a bar gave me this book, so when I finish it I have to pass it on to a stranger in a bar.
Avete presente quelle scene nei film in cui il protagonista ha la pistola in mano e all'improvviso preme il grilletto e il proiettile parte e la telecamera si sofferma proprio su questo dettaglio, sceglie di mettere a fuoco la pallottola e lo fa a rallentatore, seguendone il percorso per arrivare, frame dopo frame, al corpo di quella che sarà la vittima? Ecco, Run River, il primo romanzo di Joan Didion da pochi mesi nelle librerie grazie a Il Saggiatore, è proprio questo: un proiettile a rallentatore, un romanzo lungo un eterno sparo.https://justanotherpoint.wordpress.co...
"Maybe the most difficult, most important thing anyone could do for anyone else was to leave him alone; it was perhaps the only gratuitous act, the act of love."
Está narrada en tercera persona pero la autora va alternando el peso del personaje para que al final tengamos una visión de casi 360º de esta familia, formada por tres, además de algunos secundarios.
Comienza en agosto de 1959, a modo de pequeño prólogo, para pasar al cuerpo del hilo argumental de 1938 a 1959 que ocupa la mayor parte de la narración, y terminar de nuevo en la misma noche de 1959 con la que comenzamos.Para mí, la fuerza está en la manera de la autora de contarnos los sentimientos y pensamientos de todos ellos.
Personalmente, di Joan Didion apprezzo particolarmente la scrittura limpida e cristallina, capace di indagare persino nelle pieghe più nascoste dell’animo umano, tirando fuori tutto il meglio e il peggio e poi, amo quel suo prendere repentinamente le distanze da tutto e da tutti, quasi come a voler sottolineare che non c’entra nulla con tutto quello che sta narrando, perché quello è altro da lei."Run River" è il suo romanzo d'esordio, pubblicato per la prima volta in Italia nel 2016 da il Saggiatore.Recensione completa: http://www.librofilia.it/run-river-di...
Al final, tengo la sensación que Didion ha escrito una historia sobre la soledad, de todos pero en especial de las mujeres, que por no tener un rol asignado, un lugar en el mundo por sí mismas más que en relación con los hombres, parecen pasearse en un estado desconectado de sufrimiento existencial.
Y McClellan, con su manera de ver el mundo, a su mujer y a sus hermanas desde una perspectiva más bien caprichosa, que obedece a los deseos mas inmediatos, y que las influye con sus silencios y su pasividad ante lo que acontece.
Fresca, profunda e intensa, una brillante primera novela que nos anticipa todo lo que vendrá después en la prosa de Didion.
3.5/5. ‘Quizá lo más difícil y lo más importante que se podía hacer por otra persona era dejarla en paz; quizá fuera el único acto gratuito, el acto de amor’.
I'm not quite sure what I think yet, but I agree with one of the reviewers who said the book lost a little steam in the middle. But the mood, the writing, the creatures of California....I'll be reading more Joan Didion even if she crushes my soul once again. I'm especially intrigued by Lilly's (as far as I can tell) one flash of insight related to the patterns, or I should say neon signs that people close to us create. We often just don't see these signs til "after the fact." It's more complicated than denial.
Another great piece of understated fiction from Didion, about loveless marriage and whatnot, kind of like Gatsby but different. From the back of the book: "Didion writes so tightly it cuts the flesh."
That disturbing tale of a woman's descent into madness as she compulsively drove the freeways of Los Angeles kept me from falling asleep after I read it in one evening.Since then I have read her memoirs, The Year of Magical Thinking, about the death of her husband, and Blue Nights, about the death of her daughter.Joan Didion is a great writer.
I was enthralled by this look into her life, her writing and the way she feels about it all looking back from the age of 83.Nine days later I read Run River.
some nice lines and insights but oh my god it's so boring i think it gave me a rash. it's like the great gatsby if there were no parties and no gatsby just rich people feeling uncomfortable in poorly ventilated houses
"Luego le dijo que no podía dormir en la misma habitación que él.
Everett le contestó que se las había apañado para dormir en la misma habitación que mucha otra gente, ¿no?
Él le pegó una bofetada y ella forcejeó, y él la cogió en brazos y todo volvió a ir bien durante un tiempo.
Todo se va a arreglar», y ella se puso a repetirle una y otra vez: «Por favor, Dios, Everett, no nos dejes», y él le dijo: «Lily, cielo, vamos a capear los próximos meses y luego tú harás un viaje, te llevarás a los niños de viaje, irás a algún sitio que te apetezca y, cielo, cuando vuelvas a casa todo se habrá arreglado, ya verás »."*Maldita hechicera Didion, y ¡menudo final!
There is something super retro about Joan Didion’s first novel -- which, apparently, she hated. It’s not just that it was written 40-plus years ago. It’s also the way it’s written. The topic is contemporary enough: dissatisfied wife of absent husband takes up with the town loud mouths in a not-so secret way. The relationships are complicated. The landscape is so Didion’s Sacramento. There’s a murder in, like, the first scene. It’s delish.
Sabía que Didion era una escritora brillante pero no imaginaba hasta qué punto.
Boring and casually racist for no reason
Se enamoró de su familia, de la seguridad que le reportaba y por eso se casó con él.Segundo, es un estilo algo complicado para mí, con una escritura sinuosa, con frases dispersas que nunca acaban (cosa que me dificulta mucho la lectura y que hace que en ocasiones me salga de la historia), pero tiene una cadencia pegadiza.
El estilo de la novela es realista, que retrata la sociedad tal y como es, o como ella la ve, usando técnicas adoptadas del periodismo y dando importancia al entorno social de los personajes como medio para explicar sus ideas y conductas, mezclando así ficción y realidad hasta hacerlas inseparables.
Ella pone los hechos, pero no la emoción de los personajes.
I find Joan Didion to be a fascinating Essayist.
I’m going to go into detail as there’s a lot of that on here, but it’s not a face-value novel - I'd suggest you have a general understanding of California and the Elite class of the time.
However, Didion showcases her impressive vocabulary throughout the book, something I greatly admire, and at times it almost seemed auto-biographical.
Didion is an important figure in modern literature nonetheless, and if you’re not into cheesy fiction and supermarket check-out duds – which I really cannot stand – this book is worthwhile.
A stunning novel.
Structurally and stylistically somewhat different than Didion's later work (not as elliptical and fast moving) yet the characters exhibit familiar traits – they are emotionally and physically paralyzed, impervious to change, movement and progression, and subject to failures symptomatic of the American condition.
Again Didion offers a kind of commentary on the West and the failure of the American dream.
As a result, identity becomes unstable, and each character becomes increasingly alienated, incapable of communicating with one another.
I enjoyed this novel, although I found it a bit slow to start.
Me gustó por la forma de desarmar ese entramado de relaciones sociales de la clase media y alta norteamericana, que va tras del sueño de una vida perfecta, detrás de negocios para obtener dinero y prestigio, cargados de fachadas para mostrarse, pero que de la puerta hacia adentro viven una intimidad de infierno.
Me recordó a tantas mujeres que conocí hoy día y dicen "mi marido me lleva así de la manito".
Sentí que le sobraban muchas páginas.
Me pareció interesante la forma en que estructuró la obra, esas tres partes que no puedo decir más para no hacer spoiler.
This was a re-read, but one from several decades back, when I was first discovering how lapidary prose like Didion’s could make even a story about over-privileged, unsympathetic characters such a page turner.
It’s the story of Lily Knight and Everett McClellan, children of two old land-owning families in California’s central valley, whose faltering marriage might be read as a symbol of the decay of Old California.
Of course, in Didion’s more-than-capable hands, it never feels like anything so heavy-handed as a symbol.
I can only imagine that as Joan Didion neared the finish of her debut novel, with electricity arcing out of her fingers and thunder crashing around the surrounding countryside, she had some sense just how good of a book she had written.
She reverses Chekhov's Gun by having it go off in the very first moments, then follows from childhood how the characters got to that climatic instant.
And the entire fateful story moves from start to finish as inexorably as the river winding its way through the pages.So much to learn here for a writer, so much to enjoy for a reader.
I was not expecting to like this.
But if you're a fan of Joan Didion, there are some things you have to do.
I was surprised: I loved the way she nailed obscurely familiar personalities -- the odd one who never quite feels solid on the complexities of small talk and door-holding, the petty knife-twister who sees the hurt she causes as positive evidence she's succeeded in finally connecting to another, the family man who sees his whole life breaking apart bit by bit no matter how hard he pulls to hold it together.
Tre stelle e mezzo.Mi fa sempre sorridere questo fatto per cui all'inizio dei libri di Joan Didion serve quasi fare l'albero genealogico, come fosse un libro di Tolstoj.
Mancano i collegamenti, molte cose vengono date per scontate, e solo dopo molte pagine tutto va al loro posto.
È il primo romanzo della Didion, ma la storia è molto "didioniana", ed è incredibile pensare che nel 1961 il suo stile fosse già così, molto formato e quasi completo.
Un filo troppo lungo, per la storia che è, ma quasi nessuno tra i contemporanei riesce a tratteggiare i personaggi femminili inquieti e traballanti come lei.
Didion's first novel. Usually I love Joan Didion but there was something about the main character constantly having tragic mental breakdowns while her maid is downstairs caring for her children that made me finally understand why people have problems with her. Also, it was sort of upsetting how many times there would be scenes of the main character Lily having a fight with her husband and then sentence, "And then he hit her and then everything was all right." Guess I am pretty happy to have been born way after women's lib began.
Ever since I started reading Didion I've been enamored, and this, her first novel, did not disappoint. It's bleak, impossibly sad, and tragic. And I loved every sentence. I would re-read paragraphs just to take in the prose again, and nearly every page is earmarked for a passage I liked. But, fair warning - it's depressing and the characters aren't exactly the most likable. But that's part of what I loved about it. I understand not everyone likes reading sad novels...particularly those about a dismal marriage.
