https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/944267.Boundaries
One of the most life-changing books I have ever read.Judgmental people BEWARE: Do not mock this review.
Like many of the people used as examples in this book, I had been victimized my entire life by people who had no concept of what respecting others entails.
This book taught me everything my family of origin and religious leaders had failed to teach me: that I deserve respect, and that there are skills out there I need to learn to get it.
Now, three plus years later, I still reference this book in times of need.
I'm not a huge fan of "Christian-lite" self-help writing because it so often feels formulaic, especially when the authors start each chapter with cheesy anecdotes from their own practice.
"Won't I hurt others if I set boundaries?" "Aren't Christians supposed to be generous and self-sacrificing?" "Isn't it selfish to think about yourself?") Even the anecdotes felt useful in this book as they gave practical and clear examples of the boundary-making process.
Despite being written from a Christian perspective, I think this book would be useful for anyone who struggles with boundaries in his or her life (whether setting and maintaining them, feeling guilty about having them, or having trouble respecting the boundaries of others).
So I opened the book, read the introduction "A Day in a Boundaryless Life" describing a day of a lady who's unable to refuse anyone but feels resentful and guilty about her resentfulness, and a couple of pages on the book.
Then skipped to the end, "A Day in a Life with Boundaries", describing the same person who has successfully set boundaries, and doesn't hesitate to say "no" anymore.
I was sort of irritated with her both times.
Indeed, I think I may be too much on the other side, of saying "no" too much (sort of).
This book is life-changing. Turns out a discussion of boundaries is really a discussion about every single relationship in your life, your personal self-worth and discipline, your childhood, and your religion. The good doctors come at this from a Christian perspective, but they pull no punches in addressing the massive problem Christians, in particular, have with these issues. At every turn, they are brutally honest, logical, and biblical. The end result is the encouragement and empowerment to live a centered life, free of guilt and balanced in God’s will.
I never thought about this idea of boundaries and I have already been working since reading this book on establishing strong, clear, biblical boundaries with myself and others.
And as with anything else, because this is truly the way God intended things to be, it is so easy to see how much better life would be with properly established boundaries.
I truly want to thank these authors for breaking this down for anyone and everyone who might take the time to read this book.
I listened to this on tape while driving, but I intend to go back and read it (probably more than once) so that it can more thoroughly seep into my head.
I am having a very difficult time with nonfiction books right now, especially ones that inspire me to take notes (I filled up five pages after getting about 2/3rds of the way through).
This is definitely a book worth reading, when you can give it your full attention.
But it is a fantastic book, and I'm glad I listened to it.
The fact is, if I wasn't reading this book for a book group, I don't think I would go any further, or gotten as far as I have.The thing I hate the most in this one is how much scripture is quoted.
Honestly to read the book "Boundries" you would think that all Christians are total morans just standing in the middle of the othe highway of life, begging to be run over by a flet of fully loaded 18 wheelers.
I guess if you have severe boundry issues and can't say no to anyone for anything, this book is for you.
Having issues with setting boundaries, I was really excited to start reading this book based on all the wonderful reviews on amazon.com.
Then a listing of how boundaries could be a problem in this relationship (didn't we just spend the first 50% of the book going over this?) and finally some ways to address these boundary issues like "you need to know your worth," or "find a support group." In fact, the one thing I did get out of this book is that for me to set boundaries, I need a support group, I can't do it myself.The book then ends with an example of how setting boundaries makes your life so much better.
How do people know they have crossed the line if you never drew the line?
I know that others books were written to cover a specific aspect (like Boundaries at Work.) I found this book invaluable to me in helping me identify my lack of boundaries and how to be more assertive when others are going to violate them.Overall an easy read with a lot of common sense information that some of us may just be in denial about.
This is an excellent book.
This book could apply to many different troublesome situations.
If you're a people pleaser that tends to get stressed out, there are some really helpful things in here.
Or if you are liable to be taken advantage of.I like the Christian viewpoint, because it takes into account the fact that followers of Christ WANT to serve others and not be "selfish." Yet it also teaches why we must set boundaries so that we don't "run faster than we have strength."From a grief point of view, this wasn't as helpful as I had hoped.
My therapist said to apply it to internal boundaries.
This book really helped to clarify for me that it is not selfish or unChristian to get your own life in order using boundaries.
Keep pushing forward with defining your boundaries, although others may react negatively.
That is their problem with boundaries of others, not yours.
But seriously, reading this and using my bible as help...lots of scriptural references to how God wants us to set our boundaries so we will be able and available to love/help others.
Will definitely keep this as a reference book to go back to and maybe read some sections again.
هو كتاب علم نفس رائع جداً ومفيد يعلمك كيف تصنع الحدود ويعطي أمثلة ونماذج من الحياة ويحلل تصرفات الأشخاص ازاء الحدود وأسباب عدم وجود الحدود. الكتاب من وجهة نظري لغته سهلة وسلسلة بالنسبة لكتب علم النفس لا يحتوي على كلمات معقدة. كما انه يعرض نصوص مسيحية ويناقش رأي الكاتب من وجهة نظره المسيحية ووجهة نظره كمتخصص نفساني انصح بقرائته
the author drones on and on with example situations about a working mom driving the kids to soccer practice, being asked to volunteer at church, all the while juggling her career with the needs of her jerk of a husband and bratty / whining kids.
Really, it's not much more than a book created to give people excuses for making bad choices in the first place.the book could be summed up in a few sentences:1) if you want to have a demanding career, don't choose to have children.2) if you want to be happy in marriage, choose a spouse who is supportive.3) if you don't want to be volunteered for your church's building program by fund raising with a cookie drive, don't be 'that person' who always says 'yes'.4) grow a spine.5) grow some peaches.6) grow some walnuts.the problem i have with this book is that it is the complete opposite of QBQ ...
A five-star book for those of us who just san't say no to others. If you need to learn how to distance yourself and protect your family from needy people in a moving way, check it out. It's ok to say no. It's ok to take care of your own needs sometimes!
Trông chờ dữ lắm rốt cuộc thất vọng bực mình, dị ứng với một nùi mấy câu kinh thánh, đưa vô chục câu thôi còn được, đoạn nào cũng có 1 câu thì sao chịu nổi. Cuốn này chắc hợp với mấy con chiên ngoan đạo, loại vô đạo như mình thật không đọc nổi.
I took my time reading this one. It's got some pretty powerful questions about how you treat yourself and see yourself in relation to other people in your life.
I gather that the authors were working from their own practice, but a few references to a little research would have gone a long way to earn my placidity.The book contains a very large number of what I call "pastor stories." Probably, these vignettes come from actual examples in the authors' private practice, with the names and details changed to protect patient confidentiality...
As a parent myself, I find it hard to believe that every bad decision my son makes will rest on my head when judgment day comes--it's just not a reasoned position to take here.As I said, I eventually ended up liking the book (which may be hard to believe, at this point, but it's true).
I didn't think I needed this book.
I've read this book twice now, and each time I got something new.
It's the type of book that everyone can benefit from at different points in their life.
Don't be mislead, like I was, thinking this book was only for those in romantic relationships or married.
I love how everything comes from a Christian perspective, and even though a lot of tough issues are covered (codependency, addiction, abuse) I never felt overwhelmed or condemned like I have when reading some secular material on the same subjects.
Yes, it's work learning how to properly implement boundaries in your life, and you're going to make mistakes along the way.
Setting our own personal boundaries can allow others to experience the consequences of their actions and their choices and prohibit them from blaming us for their actions and choices.
I'm hardly an expert and could probably benefit from taking the class again in a few months, but at this point I can say with conviction that any abuse, even "just" emotional, is not okay with me and that I am not responsible for the choices and actions of others.
We need to realize that we are in control of our choices....Setting boundaries inevitably involves taking responsibility for your choices.
It looked like a cheesy self-help book, and worse, it had won the Gold Medallion Book Award - "in recognition of excellence in Evangelical Christian literature." Needless to say, I was terrified; in no way do I self-identify as an Evengelical.
It also tells the reader that creating boundaries is not really the most pleasant experience - it will make us happier and better people in the long run - but at first we will have intense feelings (anger, guilt, hurt) that mean we're probably successfully establishing boundaries, and that some so-called "relationships" may be lost in this growing process.
One aspect I particularly liked about the authors' approach, besides their biblical view of God and His relation to us, was their emphasis that we should focus on what we can change--us--rather than others.
Tentatively, then, I will strongly recommend this book for anyone who is going through relationship issues of any kind, anyone who is struggling with self-identity, anyone who is fighting with an out-of-control lifestyle, and also young people who are in the stage of becoming independent adults with a life apart from their parents.
Drs. Henry Cloud and John Townsend offer biblically based insights into how to set healthy boundaries with our parents, spouses, children, friends, co-workers, and even ourselves."My dad recommended I read this book when I was in the middle of a difficult friendship.
The book teaches about the law of the harvest and also helped me to understand that God is perfect at setting perfect boundaries.
This taught me that I can kindly welcome everyone into my life with open arms, so long as they understand that a respect for me, for those I love and for what is important to me is something I am allowed to expect.
This book changed my life forever.
This is a very powerful book that teaches you what boundaries are and how to set them.
This book set me free and brought great healing to my life.
I just had to have the courage to let God move in this area of my life.
I highly recommend this book to everyone.Learning what healthy boundaries are gave me hope and wisdom into the God-given gift of boundaries.
This insightful book helped set my spirit free to bloom and grow in God’s love!Disclosure of Material Connection: I received a complimentary copy of this book from the author.
Probably a very helpful book for someone else, but not for me. Too simplistic and too generic and too boring. Just not necessary and not useful for me. This feels too much like a self-help book.This book keeps returning back to me recently, and I know other friends who have praised it. So I feel that I might return to this one some day.
I found it to be a very practical book. Its so easy to allow others to take advantage of me but if I set boundaries in a healthy Christian manner it makes for better relationships. As the sayinggoes; "Good fences make good neighbors."
This book feels SO important to where I'm at in life, and greatly helped me understand WHY I have certain struggles.THE BAD:- The opening of this book was pretty dreadful.
I really liked this book.This is a Christian outlook on how to create healthy boundaries and be Christ like.
I have been doing a lot of work on myself to become a better mother, wife, friend and just all around person.
It has not been an easy journey.
I have come to really appreciate books like this that call you on your crap and don't beat around the bush.
It is so hard to have a parent that doesn't understand and respect my boundaries.
Being a Christian I have struggled with the thought What Would Jesus DO and this answered a lot of my questions about that.
This book deserves more than five stars.
My life has changed drastically from the moment I finished the book.
It’s freeing to know there’s an easier approach to learning about boundaries, other than putting yourself in harms way.
People who want what they want are unpredictable, and this book covers how to handle that as well.
None have placed more focus on self growth and Biblical aspects on why it’s healthy to say no in a clear and brief text.
Working on personal growth but lacking boundaries with others is a recipe for disaster.
We are so quick to blame others for the difficulties we face, and yet often the problem lies with our own boundaries or lack of them. There is a reason this book has been a recommended resource for so many years -- it tackles truth in a clear and understandable way, empowering readers to take steps toward healthy relationships with others, with God, with technology, even with themselves. Definitely recommended!!
Very, very good.
