https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/53325.Fingerprints_of_the_Gods
This text falls into the general category that your average reader is going to label as 'conspiracy theory.' It is also likely that you have run into someone during your life who reads "conspiracy theories' and buys them hook line and sinker.
When the scholarly gestalt becomes so entrenched in the official HISTORY that they are no longer willing to entertain well-researched radical hypothesis then they become institutional hypocrites.
Read the book, even if you don't agree, at least you can support your opinion with the information that on occasion you are willing to entertain radical notions.
As a 10 year-old boy, I would walk to the public library and check out multiple books on the Loch Ness Monster, Sasquatch, The Pyramids, Easter Island, etc....
Graham Hancock is a guy that comes across as one of the more measured and if you will "less crazy" purveyors of ancient phenomena.
I had a lot of fun reading each chapter and then going online to "fact-check" what Graham had just presented.
This doesn't mean that I didn't get a heck of a lot of enjoyment out of reading Fingerprints of the Gods though.
To me this is a no brainer-- contemporary still can't duplicate some of those engineering feats, so however they got there it's some way we can't figure out.(Hancock says) this advanced civilization was destroyed by the periodic catastrophic events around ice ages.There is a lot more to it, but the basic concept is pretty sound, and it's enjoyable reading the support for it, as well as his speculations about what are obviously a lot more details.===> update.
Where to read Flower of Life, which bases its story of ancient civilizations on far far far less actual data, and tells the reader how it is rather than inviting the reader along on a voyage of discovery and interpretation.
Yet he is quite fond of using what is essentially a "God of the gaps" approach against orthodox archaeology, focusing on areas or sites of extreme antiquity like Tiwanaku, the Great Sphinx, the Great Pyramids, etc where current archaeological thought obviously can't profess to know all the answers.
Hancock often combats accusations of pseudoscience by stating that he is not a scientist--and yet he fills his books with tons of footnotes and complains about close-mindedness and conspiracy among orthodox archaeologists, two tools that make him seem like a rebellious alternative to orthodox scientific scrutiny.This book has pretty fantastic reviews here on Goodreads, which is as disappointing as it is unsurprising.
I am, I'm afraid, a non-believer.
Case in point: in one book, Hancock cites a single ambiguous line in the medieval romance Parsifal as a key source of evidence that the Knights Templar took the Holy Grail to Africa.So there are numerous problems with Hancock's theories, but this is to be expected with alternative historians.
As a history major now in medical school, I find the spread of misinformation abhorrent, as I believe it to be damaging not only to individual critical thinking skills and the historical corpus, but also a source of prejudice, racial superiority, and scare-mongering.
Love Graham Hancock's books. If you love to steer away from the status quo. If you would like to turn a blind eye to the mainstream rhetoric and propaganda and wish to look at an alternative view; or enlightened view; about our Earth's distant past then I recommend Graham Hancock. His books really do open one's eyes. Fingerprints of the Gods is an amazing book. Just like Eric Von Daniken Graham Hancock gets the grey matter firing up and opens up a whole panorama of possibilities. I do recommend this book.🐯👍
I admire Graham Hancock for the depth of his research and the restraint to not commit to only one solution to the many questions asked by this thought provoking work.
As hard as it may be for an author to leave the door open to multiple possibilities, the fact that science has not caught up to the mysteries of mankind means that we still have some serious soul searching and exploring to do.
Our culture provides us with the false of security that we have so many answers, but this is a collection of mysteries that inspire one to realize that we really have more questions than answers.
Amazingly, several other maps exist showing accurate coastlines that were not “discovered” until hundreds of years after the maps were drawn.
But just focus on the Piri Reis Map. You have to assume it was taken from pre-existing maps or drawings.
Who from 6,000 years ago, when the land surface of Antarctica was last visible, would have had the need, the inclination, or the ability to map it?Here’s another one.
And if that’s not enough for you, consider the stones at Cuzco, some weighing hundreds of tons, and worked in such detail that Spaniards thought demons, not humans, made them.Where did the Maya get the zero, and place-keeping mathematics?
For me, this was a very entertaining read - well, listen in this case. I thought Graham Hancock did an excellent job narrating his book, and did a great job keeping me interested and excited about the content the whole time. If you have any fascination with the mysteries of the pyramids, or the Sphinx, or the ancient civilizations of South and Central America, this is worth checking out. I'll be checking out Mr. Hancock's follow up book to this at some point.
Many large stones are found, like those at Giza, Egypt in many south/central American sites; including cities at the top of mountain lakes and Machu Pichu, Peru.
Could we bridge spans of 2,000 years of time between one devastation and the coast of a new stable "drier" world to start off where we left off, or would all our ancient knowledge become "myth" once more?Other questions that come up, it is clear from the history of many cited cultures, that who ever these "gods" were that gave them the gifts of civilization, that this knowledge also represented "power"; power which could be wielded over others; as it has been, since the time of Babylon [slaves, sacrifices etc:].
Some of these points include: the hypothesis that Ancient cataclysm mythologies from around the world could be a historical record of mankind’s’ experience during the last Ice Age (which ended around 9000 BC); evidence that the Sphinx in Egypt was subject to a significant amount of water erosion, possible only in a climate that pre-dates the dynasties of Ancient Egypt; detailed maps of what seems to be Antarctica that were created hundreds of years before it was discovered.
I try not to be easily swayed when reading about certain subjects, but the author, Graham Hancock, did a phenomenal job of convincing me of every one of his theories.
Using similarities in myths and structure design across the globe, the alignment of the pyramids and Sphinx with constellations of a specific age long before recorded history, and other geological evidence supporting a shift of the earth's crust, Fingerprints of the Gods is one hell of a compelling read.
And you will be convinced by the end of this book that these are not mere conspiracy theories and myths, but most likely shreds of truth that managed to make it to our ears through thousands and thousands of years.
I recommend this book to those who are interested in alternative or ancient history. Reading it will definitely compel you to reconsider your faith about the past that there existed advanced civilizations previously on earth as well. A very thought provoking and fascinating book about lost civilizations !!!
Bits might need a little tweaking now, but the gist of what we understand about Egypt isn't just flat out wrong, its misguided and misleading.It deals with much more than Egypt of course, a lot of information regarding Incas, Mayans, even a smidgen of Atlantis thrown in, but Mr. Hancock rightly stays as far away from Atlantis as he can.
So many people don't want to be wrong about human history that they'll just sit there with their thumbs in their ears, humming very loudly and chanting "I can't hear you!
Did Egyptian history extend back 37,000 or so years?
He believes that there was once a great civilization (let's call them the Atlanteans) that existed long before Sumeria or Egypt or Greece, and that they had some very advanced technology.
But something terrible happened to their home land, maybe to all of earth at the time, he talks about it possibly having been the onset of the ice age, or the shifting of the magnetic poles, or possibly both, but anyway, they felt a need to travel the earth and pass their knowledge on to just about all of the other civilizations, who until then, were pretty young and not as advanced.
He draws a line to connect their gods and myths: Osiris in Egypt, Quetzalcoatl in Mexico, maybe even JC himself in the holy land.
I must say I enjoyed reading the book.
I like Hancock's style of writing, which is clear and easy to follow.
Unfortunately he does not score so high on objective research side.
He says he did not focus on Antarctica, because he realized he does not "need" it.
Well, looking for truth requires objectivity and freedom from bias.
As soon as we talk about "needs" we can say goodbye to truth and welcome fanaticism.
Apart from that I think he has interesting points on the origin of our current civilization, and it certainly is fun to read some alternative speculations.
It's an information dump but that's the whole whole purpose of this book-to give you evidence of a lost, technologically advanced civilization.I took a lot of notes for a fun read.
When people asked what I was reading, I described it as Ancient Aliens without the Aliens.
This book made me a believer in an ancient, advanced society.
Now I'm just worried about the next earth crust displacement movement.
And then I'll Google everything else on my list.PS All the people calling earth crust displacement "tectonic" in their reviews must not have read that whole chapter.
Hancock provides a tome-ful of evidence that an advanced civilization flourished on earth prior to 10,000 BC, and evidence of it may be buried under the ice in Antarctica.Hancock believes that the pyramids are a solar clock, aligned to the equinox after a huge catastrophe struck the earth.
His theories help explain the amazingly sophisticated astronomical knowledge of ancient people like the Egyptians and Mayas.I enjoyed this book, but it was awfully long.
I think that his reply would probably be that the same advanced people who fled (in boats) the demise of the ancient civilization landed in both places.
A big massive 5 star re re re re read. So good and gets the old cogs ticking.
Substantial research and references. A journey with Graham through time at ancient locations. Really enjoyable and thought provoking... I learnt and discovered a few things as well.
Great book and great look at very ancient history, I'm talking 10,850 BC and in some cases all the way back to 15,000 BC.
All in all, this book is really good for regular people that want to know more about Egypt's ancient secrets in a bibliographical, historiographical way.
I'm sure that's why a lot of Egyptologists probably hated this book when it came out in 1993.The copy I have is the 30th printing so I'm sure Hancock is still laughing all the way to the bank.
It's a really unenviable job coming up with something that goes SO FAR AGAINST universally accepted norms that The Whole Media Circus crawls out to ridicule you...
But then I could gripe in a similar fashion about Eastenders which many love, and I hate.Fingerprints of the Gods was overall a delight to read and, anally bureucratic or not, it certainly got this reviewer thinking about how far back Intelligent Mankind's Legacy should be allowed to shuffle back into the past.
Hancock posits the theory that an ancient super-civilisation once inhabited the Earth, complete with technology comparable to our own, and that 'fingerprints' or evidence of its existence still lurks around if you know where to look.The book wins points for its easy to read, constructive approach; the theories are open to the layman, but complex enough for those with more of a mathematical mind to appreciate.
In this way he's pretty much a modern successor to Erich von Daniken, writing best-selling alternative history books for the masses.I enjoyed the book, although it gets bogged down a little in places.
Finished up Fingerprints of the Gods over the weekend.
And I am still thinking about all the implications that this book could have.
I don't want to ruin it too much by laying everything out in this book.
But just like most of modern times there is much we think we know about ourselves that maybe we don't.Graham Hancock lays out his theory that there was a very educated very special civilization on our planet around 10,500 BC that was wiped out.
The book details all of the fingerprints they left behind.I recommend this book to everyone who is interested in history.
Again, I don't know if Hancock's information is correct, but he definitely seems to have done a lot of research. His theory is amazing, and very, very cool.
One of my Favourite Books
Journeying further into the Inca and OLmec interior one finds advanced pyramids with stones weighing several tons that are perfectly fit together.
There is a legend that Viracocha a white bearded man came and dispensed wisdom all over South AMerica.
They have similar legends to the Native Americans and a break down of four different ages.
This points to the last ice age some ten ton twelve thousand years ago and human society may even be older than that.
In Sumerian there is star lore that oops much too advanced for early humans and it came there suddenly, there is no sign of progression.
(hide spoiler)] The problem with presentation is that too much attention is placed on legitimizing various evidence and not on making it interesting enough to care about.
Egypt and ancient America are great subjects, but the never-ending data dump by Hancock makes it so goddamn dull.
And that's what is most disappointing, considering those two areas have barely been touched by "Western" archaeologists (inb4 pseudoscience) and would have made everything more interesting.So yes, Graham Hancock brings excellent observations to the table, and his blistering assault on "mainstream" Egyptologists is both hilarious and awe-inspiring, but at the end of the book I was more bored than anything.
Grazie alle sue ricerche, ai suoi viaggi e alle preziose collaborazioni con altri esponenti dell'archeologia alternativa tra ricercatori, scienziati, geologi e storici dell'egittologia, con questo libro Hancock porta alla luce l'ipotesi che una prodigiosa civiltà antica, ma progredita e globalizzata sia esistita migliaia di anni fa e che abbia eretto monumenti come le piramidi e la sfinge e tanti altri siti megalitici sparsi per il globo terrestre e che questa civiltà sia stata decimata a causa di una catastrofe planetaria che ha fatto sì che le tracce di queste congiunzioni culturali tra i vari continenti andassero perse.
Impronte degli Dei è solo uno dei tanti libri interessanti ed affascinanti di Hancock che ci spinge, anche con prove tangibili, a guardarci indietro con un occhio più attento e una visione più aperta a rivelazioni tanto sorprendenti quanto oggigiorno ovvie.
After listening to Graham Hancock for a dozen or so hours on various podcasts and YouTube videos of lectures, etc., I was compelled to read Fingerprints of the Gods.
I am immensely intrigued by Hancock's ideas about possibilities of humanity's true history based on observations of the monuments and clues left scattered across the globe, the accomplishments and chronologies lost amidst the muddled interpretations of "pre-history" accepted by the community of Academia.
I am addicted to reading and exploring these incredible notions and findings presented by Graham Hancock.
I highly recommend this book to any thinking person who wishes to ask questions and open their mind to alternative theories to our accepted history of humanity and civilization.
