https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/109246.Swamp_Thing
SWAMP THING!"I had read this some time ago as I was reading the first three volumes of Alan Moore's great Swamp Thing run, to see where it all started.
And the fraught relationship between humans and the environment is there from the start--Man versus Nature!!--though developed way better and more through.
Initially The Swamp Thing was a little like Hulk, a monster of peace and nature (this was 1970, after all, we had to have a horror comic for we hippies) who has anger issues.
I think if you are going to read Alan Moore's Swamp Thing, a classic of the genre, it would be useful to check this out.
This is one of my favorite comic runs of all time, right up there with Miller's Daredevil and Claremont/Byrne X-Men. Berni Wrightson is probably my favorite comic artist of all time (along with Neal Adams) and this is some of his best work.
This series is horror comics done right.We have basically a gothic horror story featuring a heroic but tragic monster, almost in a Frankenstein type way.
The Batman appearance is probably my favorite of the run, and Wrightson does a great Batman which he later revisited in the fantastic series "The Cult." I can't recommend this series enough for any fans of horror comics.
Replete with super strength, regenerative healing powers, and the ability to take massive damage, the Swamp Thing battles human villians, a sorcerer, genetic-freak-mutations, a werewolf, witchhunters, robots, a Lovecraftian "Great Old One", an extraterrestrial, and even the Dark Knight himself on a quest to restore his humanity and to reunite with his wife and fellow scientist Linda Holland.
Succinctly written and handsomely illustrated, this collection shall be noted for the introduction of various supporting and reoccuring characters in the Swamp Thing mythos including: Linda Holland, Lt. Matt Cable, Dr. Anton Arcane and his army of genetic mutations known as the UN-Men, the Patchwork Man (think Frankenstein's Monster), and Abigail Arcane.Highly recommended for all horror and comic book afficionados.
After having read Alan Moore's entire run of Swamp Thing, I went back and read the creators', expecting something less than Moore's writing, but still great nonetheless, given all the wonderful characteristics of the title character.I was disappointed to find most of the stories filled with purple prose, the various characters' voices sounding like either one of two polarities: slow intelligence or fast-acting stupidity.
If this description sounds a little too similar to Marvel's Incredible Hulk, I think you'll understand why I was so dismayed at Len Wein's writing and simultaneously grateful for Moore's redirectioning of the character.If you haven't read Swamp Thing before but are hesitant to jump into a serial comic anywhere but at the beginning, don't worry about it for this one.
I finished the issue, then immediately turned back to the front and re-read it, slower this time, savouring each image, rolling each word over and around on my tongue.And over the next three years, I picked up the next three collections, wrapping the entire Wrightson run.Are these stories a little corny?
And every time, for a couple of glorious hours, I'm that fifteen-year-old kid, sitting in a strange store in a strange new town, discovering an entirely new world in the wonderful smelling pages of a 60-cent comic book.Magic.
After reading this volume, it became even more clear what a sea change Moore's run on Swamp Thing was.Dark Genesis is not a bad book by any means, but it's certainly a product of the 70s.
But every issue ends with Cable shaking his fist in a sort of "I'll get you next time, Swamp Thing!!" gesture.
I'm sure Swamp Thing was a cool new character at the time, but his stories are nothing special.
I got from this book exactly what I wanted: a glimpse into Swamp Thing's origin.
I mainly read this because I want to start reading the Alan Moore Saga of Swamp Thing series, and figure I ought to get the background.
After that Swamp Thing is basically the Hulk, being lonely and sulking away while occasionally getting into punching matches with other monsters and Batman.This is during that time when comics were not for adults, I think.
This manifests a little as more a PG-rated story, which is fine, but also as a writing style that assumes you are incapable of being shown something and must be told in the most exact, unsubtle detail.Like I said, comics have come a long way since the '70s.I'm hoping Alan Moore's take is far more interesting.
Swamp Thing has had many incarnations but this is where it all began. Dark Genesis collects the original ten comics from the early 1970s plus House Of Secrets #92, which introduced the character. The series is considered a classic today based on the strength of Len Wein's creepy story-telling and Bernie Wrightson's macabre illustrations. If you like graphic novels and prefer adult horror over super hero bravado, you'll definitely want to check this out.
The evil Conclave doesn't actually do anything before its taken down other than kill Alec and Linda.
They were both scientists (although only Alec ever gets called Dr., but he also gets called Mr. or Herr anyway - it was the early 70s; I'll settle for scientific partner).I'm giving it 3 stars for the fact that it was written before the comic revolution of Moore and Gaiman, so I'm forgiving some of the story-telling.
It might not be as sophisticated as Moore's EC-inspired tales, but Wein clearly takes pleasure in contrasting Swamp Thing's monstrous exterior with the horrific behavior of mob mentalities and more.He does have an occasional miss, but most of these stories are genuinely engaging, full of intriguing characters and completed by great twists.
Although the notion that the Conclave can follow what Swampy and Cable are up to because the heroes allow this dog, with a transmitter embedded in its head, to follow them everywhere is a bit silly.Wrightson's art is pure mood, creepy and twisted, with oddly elastic people and a great sense of design to his inhuman creatures.
This is good solid 1970's horror comics.
Not the works of art in mystical and theological horror that the later Alan Moore books would be, and not the shocking gore of the classic 50's horror comics, but somewhere in between.
None of it is earth-shaking but it's all solid stuff, and you can see the deep roots being laid for what Moore and company would cultivate a decade later.
Some of the stories still hold up pretty well, my favourite being the Patchwork Man. The art is pretty good for something this old and the gloomy, lumbering figure of Swamp Thing was never drawn better.
Len Wein’s Run ended on Issue #13 and he does bring some closure to the series with Swamp Thing accepting that he is fated to remain a Monster till death and giving up hope of becoming human.
A good read for those interested in Swamp Thing’s origins but the format of 1-story-per-issue severely limits the ability to explore the characters.
some of the art is great, but the prose is self important and awful and I had to skip huge chancks.I choose to read it before the alan moore run.
even the early 70s DC has better comics to read, like dead-men, super-man's sandman saga and batman's ras al ghoul saga.the overarching plot of an agent that want to revenge the swamp thing because he thinks it killed his friends (alec holland who became the swamp thing and his wife) achive virtually nothing, and actually the swamp thing is following him rather than the other way around.
I think you should read the book if you like action books because there is a lot of fighting. A man and his wife are in a lab when it explodes and chemicals go everywhere the guy lands in swamp water creating The Swamp Thing and The Swamp Thing is put up against a lot of enemies in the process of trying to become human again. I think the book was good it was really exiting and just fun to read.
I think the book was a good fiction, graphic novel. The main character the swamp monster was a nice monster he was a hero who saved his friends if he could. The swamp monster had to go up against other monsters from the woods also.
surprisingly good! batman's in issue 7 and wildly out of character and issue eight is absolutely INSANE but on the whole very enjoyable!!
Más bien 3.5Cosas que sí, cosas que meh pero por lo general un gran tomo con el origen de Swampy.
This was so cool. I might even like these better than Allen Moore's stuff.
I'm tempted to call it the unity of men and women of good will, but I don't quite know about that...that's still kind of tricky, in a sense,But anyway, this first Swamp Thing volume really is wonderful.
I don't know very much at all about those genres in literature, in the real long run, especially science fiction and fantasy and mystery novels, but, I think these Swamp Thing stories, or other great comics I've read this year, like the first Hell Blazer volume or the first volume of the second X-Men run, are really, really great and relevant and wonderful landmarks of the science fiction genre in the second half of the 20th century.
I’m reading this collection as a precursor to my dive into Alan Moore’s run of Swamp Thing, and I must say, I’m both delighted and a bit turned off by Len Wein’s Dark Genesis, which sounds odd and paradoxical.
3. Protagonist: I really did like Alec Holland/Swamp Thing, mainly because he has such good intentions, but is always misunderstood because of his monstrous appearance.
Treatment of Female Characters: Ugh, ok, so there are apparently two origins for Alec Holland/Swamp Thing, and neither have Linda, his wife, come out in a good place.
This collection of the earliest issues of the original run of Swamp Thing is all Len Wein and Bernie Wrightson.
It has not only the first 10 issues of the series (after which Wrightson left), but also includes the original story from House of Secrets #92, so is really the ground-floor entry for the character and all later series incarnations.Though Swamp Thing went on to truly great things, his beginnings were considerably more modest.
The initial genesis of the Swamp Thing is collected in this graphic novel, featuring the legendary paring of writer Len Wein and artist Berni Wrightson.
Scientists Alec and Linda Holland have groundbreaking theories on restorative formulas, leading to their seclusion by the government.
Left for dead in the swamp, Alec Holland rises again as the plant creature known as Swamp Thing!
The early stories follow misguided agent Matthew Cable's attempt to track down the Swamp Thing, believing the creature to be responsible for the deaths of the scientists under his watch.
If you like nightmarrish and or horrific freak accident books, then this will blow your mind.
I really did like this book.
An easy read with complex language and character personalities that make this book great.
This whole "Swamp Thing" coudlnt have been created any better.
A nuclear explosion destroys this lab Dr. Alec Holland has in the woods.
One day Dr. Holland says no to the wrong person and he blows up the whole lab and send Dr. Holland flying into the murky swamp water.
The burning foam which created him into this monster, has changed his life forever and now he goes through the life of the swamp thing.
"Este libro recoge, por primera vez en un solo volumen, la historia original de ocho páginas y los diez primeros números de La Cosa del Pantano del equipo creativo original compuesto por Len Wein y Bernie Wrightson (House of Secrets Nº 92, Swamp Thing Nº 1 a 10 USA).
Estas once historias no son sólo reconocidos clásicos del mundo de los cómics; son una increíble experiencia lectora y una introducción ideal a la criatura con muchas facetas conocida como La Cosa del Pantano."
Una antología perfecta para quienes como yo no han leído nada de este personaje.
An enjoyable, but fairly forgettable read.
The basic plot of the ten issues in this collection were: Swamp Thing finds a small town somewhere in America where Weird Stuff Is Happening.
After an exploration of the Weird Stuff (which could be anything from clockwork people, to autistic magicians, to alien hordes), there's a fight, some stuff gets destroyed, and Swamp Thing ends up on the road again.
I've been told that Alan Moore did some great stuff with Swamp Thing in the latter part of the 1980s, but Wein's material with the character is very stereotypically 1970s adventure/horror type stuff.
Some of the stories in Dark Genesis are of the old and campy variety with a few spots here and there of the deeper horror to come in Moore's comics.
The one moment I found myself feeling some real horror was the end of the robot town story because it was so unexpected and visceral.I would recommend this volume of Swamp Thing strictly to fans of the hero.
The word I would assign to the trouble is "dated." Swamp Thing seems like he should be above making quips in his thought bubbles as he punches his enemies :-P
Finalmente pude leer la oscura génesis de uno de los personajes más singulares del universo DC y que formó parte de lo que una vez fue la Línea Vértigo.
El presente libro recopila las primeras aventuras (por decirlo de algún modo) con un fuerte componente del género del terror y lo sobrenatural del que una vez fue el doctor Alec Holland y sus secundarios de lujo, como el detective Cable y la nieta del doctor Arcane.
Es ese tipo de recopilatorio que una vez que comienzas, muy dificilmente podrás soltarlo, ya que la narración es tan diferente, a pesar de los años que tiene encima, así como tan personal que atrae.
yes, it's dated.
yes, the writing is like the worst sort of marriage between lovecraft and bulwer-lytton, but on the other hand: what's not to love?i am probably biased as i grew up loving swamp thing for its amazing (and taboo for my house) mix of horror and pathos.
meeting wrightson in person was a happy moment for me; he and wein created something special in this character that has endured (and will continue) for many more years to come.this edition is a nice compilation that won't cost you an arm and leg and includes the original house of secrets origin.
would have liked to seen it be a complete run of the first series, but for what it is, it's worth it.
Look, I'll give this book three stars for the fantastic art by Bernie Wrightson. The storytelling and dialogue, however, didn't excite me too much. Maybe it's just a product of the times. Taking in context that fantastic, serious comic-book writing didn't evolve in comics until, arguably, the early 80's (possibly late 80's) - I will give Len Wein some slack. However, that shouldn't dissuade you from checking this book out and seeing history be made in the form of a great idea seen to fruition. So, in conclusion, great writing, fantastic idea and okay scripts lead to an average read.
