https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11449.Cathedral
English (Cathedral) / ItalianoThis collection of twelve stories by Raymond Carver is the perfect example of how to compromise the reader's frame of mind by talking about daily events.
Among the twelve short novels, in my opinion A Small, Good Thing deserves a special mention: an absolute masterpiece of unnatural perfection!And for the record: a short story can tell more than a thousand novels.Vote: 9La raccolta di dodici racconti di Raymond Carver rappresenta l'esempio perfetto di come mettere in subbuglio l'animo del lettore parlando di fatti quotidiani.
(Although the narrator remains nameless throughout the story, I sense his name is Al, so I’ll take the liberty to occasionally refer to the narrator as Al).Poetry: Al’s wife writes poems, one such poem about how during her last session with the blind man, she let him touch her face and neck with his fingers.
Black bile Al. His words about his wife’s despair and attempted suicide before she met him are entirely devoid of emotion and as flat and as cold as a frozen pancake.Recreation: Al’s wife has been trading tapes with the blind man over the years.
P. and I are on the front porch at Frank Martin's drying-out facility.
Like the rest of us at Frank Martin's, J.
La maestría de Raymond Carver proviene de la narración rigurosa e impasible de lo cotidiano; y en lo cotidiano se incluyen a partes iguales lo tedioso y lo terrible, lo lógico y lo absurdo.
Sin aspavientos, sin artificios, con cierto cansancio en la exposición de los hechos, Carver confiere tanto valor a lo que cuenta como a lo que no menciona: las referencias espacio-temporales no son sino ornamentos en historias aparentemente banales que se transforman en breves e inquietantes trazos vitales, de un desasosiego sutil, turbio, que todos reconocemos como profundamente nuestro.
"Vitamins", "Careful", "Where I'm Calling From", "The Train", "Fever", "The Bridle","Cathedral" - Narrated by a man whose wife is old friends with a blind man, the story shows the husband/narrator's distaste for the blind man who is coming to visit him and his wife for a few days.
In the end they bond in a way through the communication they share about what a cathedral looks like.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز بیست و نهم ماه آوریل سال 2012 میلادیعنوان: کلیسای جامع (چند داستان)؛ نویسنده: ریموند کارور؛ مترجم: فرزانه طاهری؛ تهران، نیلوفر، 1377؛ در 323 ص؛ چاپ دوم 1379؛ چاپ سوم 1381؛ شابک: 9644480643؛ موضوع: داستانهای کوتاه از نویسندگان امریکایی - سده 20 مزندگی آدم­های «کاروِِر» انگار همین زندگی و درماندگی ­است.
Of course, I asked the great oracles of the Internet to feed me information about him, and they told me that Mr.Carver is one of the American literary gods who revived the dying short story literary form in the 80s.
To be honest, his stories can be considered as disguised ciphers, as while reading, you may think the story is about bananas, but in fact, It might just be about the potassium and carbohydrates or even oranges.The bananas are just a metaphor, Carver never wrote about bananas to my knowledge.
Most of the stories in Cathedral uses middle-class couples and their marriages as stage setting, and from there Carver unleashes a torrent of words to create effective stories.
Raymond Carver is one of the most influential writers of the late 20th century, and this volume, published five years before his tragically early death at 50, has the feel of an American classic.It includes some of his most famous short stories: “Feathers,” “Chef’s House," “A Small, Good Thing,” “Vitamins,” “Where I’m Calling From” and the mysterious title tale.
It's a model of economy and compression.If you’ve ever wanted to know how to conceal stories within stories, look at “Where I’m Calling From,” set in a "drying-out facility." In a sense storytelling is a part of the plot; the rehab characters listen to others tell stories to distract them from their own troubles.
A very interesting short, showcasing a blind man who doesn't let his blindness limit him in any way. Turns a skeptic, who was uncomfortable about his blindness, into a man who lesrns by the gift of touch. There are many different ways of seeing, and not all use sight.
E, in quanto umani, possiamo essere capaci, nel nostro piccolo, di cambiare le vite degli altri con semplici gesti.Penne ★★★★1/2La casa di Chef ★★★★1/2Conservazione ★★★★Lo scompartimento ★★★★Una piccola, buona cosa  ★★★★★Vitamine ★★★1/2Stare Attenti ★★★★Da dove sto chiamando ★★★★Il treno per John Cheever ★★★★Febbre ★★★★★La briglia ★★★★1/2Cattedrale  ★★★★★
Just another genius collection of laconic grimly funny or just grim short stories by Carver, like his other four.
A guy and his wife are invited for dinner at a workmate’s house.
(“Even calling it ugly does it credit.”) “Preservation”.
The bereaved parents receive calls from the baker who’s expecting them to collect the birthday cake he’s made for their son.
A guy has a visit from his estranged wife Inez.
Purists may shudder at the thought but it's actually a great piece of work and weaves the stories into something else.
This book changed my life, sent me on my way to becoming a writer, and quite literally was the reason my girlfriend and I got together. Yeah. Soul mates. Me and Carver.
3.5★"On her last day in the office, the blind man asked if he could touch her face.
Blind or not, that seems an unusual thing to happen between a man and a woman who are just friends.When Robert shows up, the narrator is uncomfortable and there's awkward small talk until the TV in the background begins showing cathedrals and the British presenter gives some descriptions.
The wife has dozed off on the couch, and Robert asks the narrator to try to really describe a cathedral for him to imagine.It's harder than it seems, and the understanding they seem to develop as the story goes on, which also involves touch, is interesting and unexpected.
C'è in questa raccolta qualcosa che sfugge a qualsiasi definizione. Qualcosa che vi vestirà di incertezza, che vi farà sentire storpi e del tutto impreparati alla vita, dei "principianti". Eppure, meno soli. In un cerchio di tristezze, al centro un fuoco.
Τα διηγηματα του Καρβερ είναι τόσο συγκλονιστικά γιατί στον πυρήνα τους έχουν την αλήθεια του ανθρώπου που τα έγραψε. Λόγος λιτός με λέξεις τόσο σοφά επιλεγμένες για να αγγίζουν το κατάλληλο νεύρο. Όλες οι ιστορίες κλείνουν απότομα, όπως αρχίζουν. Δεν αφήνουν όμως καμία εκκρεμότητα. Ο, τι έπρεπε να ειπωθεί, εχει ειπωθεί με τον καλύτερο τρόπο.Ξεχωρισα την Συντήρηση, Μια μικρή παρηγοριά και τον Πυρετό.Πολύ σύντομα θα ακολουθήσουν και τα υπόλοιπα βιβλία του.
Various sources reveal that an earlier version of the story is fuller, but editor Gordon Lish wouldn’t publish it until it was stripped to the bone.In Carver’s revision of “The Bath” in “A Small, Good Thing” he lengthens it considerably, letting us get to know the parents better.
I thought that “The Bath” was technically amazing, but in the closing pages of the revised story I was reduced to tears.
The narrator’s life is going nowhere, he just likes to get stoned and watch tv, but the blind man is rich and “insightful” in a way the husband is not.
Piccole poesie raccontate con un linguaggio essenziale, concreto, efficace. Da leggere assolutamente. I miei racconti preferiti sono stati :"una cosa piccola ma buona", "cattedrale", "Conservazione" e "la casa di Chef"Penne ⭐⭐⭐⭐La casa di chef ⭐⭐⭐⭐Conservazione ⭐⭐⭐⭐Lo scompartimento ⭐⭐⭐⭐Una cosa piccola ma buona🌟🌟🌟🌟🌟Vitamine ⭐⭐⭐Attento ⭐⭐Da dove sto chiamando ⭐⭐⭐Il treno ⭐⭐⭐Febbre ⭐⭐⭐⭐La briglia⭐⭐⭐Cattedrale ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐
Piccole poesie raccontate con un linguaggio essenziale, concreto, efficace. Da leggere assolutamente. I miei racconti preferiti sono stati :"una cosa piccola ma buona", "cattedrale", "Conservazione" e "la casa di Chef"Penne ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️La casa di chef ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️Conservazione ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️Lo scompartimento ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️Una cosa piccola ma buona🌟🌟🌟🌟🌟Vitamine ⭐️⭐️⭐️Attento ⭐️⭐️Da dove sto chiamando ⭐️⭐️⭐️Il treno ⭐️⭐️⭐️Febbre ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️La briglia⭐️⭐️⭐️Cattedrale ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️
I read "Cathedral", the titular short story in this collection. The narrator and his wife are visited by Robert, a longtime friend and past employer of the wife. The narrator is meeting Robert for the first time and feels superior because Robert is blind.The story has a theme about seeing with one's eyes contrasted with seeing and understanding things below the surface. Robert may be blind, but he has the deeper understanding.
Simboli inesauribili“E' solo che, sapete, quando si scrivono racconti, i nostri peggiori nemici siamo solo noi stessi, capite?
O siamo lì che mettiamo cose di cui non c'è davvero bisogno, di cui il lettore può fare benissimo a meno – possiamo infatti presumere che il lettore riempia i nostri vuoti da solo – oppure nascondiamo quel che conta sul serio.
Carver scrive una mappa dell'essere umano per conoscere il dolore e cerca un modo di raccontare cosa farsene: perturbazioni emotive, verità parallele, catastrofi dimenticate, moralità nascoste, volontà sospese; desideri latenti, insicurezze ignote, contrasti intimi, smarrimenti essenziali.
The narrator also has limited knowledge which keeps the reader from seeing the blind man's feelings.
In reality, the blind man can see things that seeing people are unable to see.
The narrator represents the story's dominant theme of overcoming prejudice of the blind through personal experience as well as mutual respect.
The story also reflect of hope for personal growth, as the narrator seems to have an epiphany of sorts at the end when he makes the realization that he can communicate with the blind man and that doing so makes him feel very different and alive in many ways.
Quando ho scritto il mio commento ai  Nove racconti  di Salinger ho parlato di barriere abbattute, qui posso parlare solamente di costruzioni: Carver è un costruttore (e forse qui dovrei fermarmi e fare dell'ironia, dal momento che il racconto di Yates che più mi è piaciuto è stato proprio “I costruttori”), costruisce con una perizia e una maestria innegabile edifici semplici, lineari, che ricordano in tutto e per tutto  la vita vera  - questa fantomatica entità -, costruisce edifici stranianti e pieni di una desolazione, una solitudine, una distruzione intrinseca da lasciare ben poca speranza, ben poca luce (proprio quella luce che, invece, sapeva filtrare dalle imprecisioni del racconto di Yates>), ma a ben guardare si tratta pur sempre di costruzioni.
On finishing this magnficent collection, I am moved -- Carver is a gem.
The final story, in particular, strikes home, since I once spent many hours in College with a guy who was blind as a stone, sitting up late hours, also (as in Cathedral), passing the hooch....
what a loss, Carver's early death!
Oh, what a loss...I've now read the three collections -- and the feeling of sadness that there's not another one...
I can only say that having passed these hours w/ Carver -- is a lot like having spent them...
dare I say it..., in a Cathedral....
That’s a name for a coloured woman.‘Was his wife a negro?’ I asked.”The narrator seems to be uneasy with this information, and he further denigrates the blind man in his mind, immediately assuming that he is superior to Robert in all ways, by thinking of how dreadful it must have been for Beulah not to have been seen by the man she loved:“And then I found myself thinking what a pitiful life this woman must have led.
For reasons that become increasingly clear to me as I age, Raymond Carver will always be my short story God. Having just put down Cathedral, I think I can put my finger on it a bit better than usual.
I’m gonna do a little bit of testifying.As much as I’d like to be Rocketman, Alaric Darconville, or Ishmael, the fact of the matter is that I’m nothing more or less than a character in a Carver story.
In other words, Raymond Carver was the chronicler of the quintessence of my parents' generation and my own in 20th-century America: people fucking up unspectacularly in-between the chain link fences of our own private Shangri-La’s.

Questa volta sapevo cosa aspettarmi, non è stato come incontrarli una sera dopo cena e non sapersene staccare prima di averli letti tutti (Di cosa parliamo quando parliamo d’amore).
Questa volta mi son preso tempo.Ci sono due condizioni per apprezzare Carver: la prima è il desiderio di realtà.
Carver racconta ciò che vede.
E proprio il rapporto con l’alcool è la seconda condizione che decreta il grado di apprezzamento nei confronti di questo autore.
La prima condizione è imprescindibile, Carver sembra aver recepito in pieno la lezione di E.
Nei suoi racconti Carver ha fatto la stessa cosa con gli oggetti inanimati.
Carver öyle usta bir öykücü ki, anlatma biçimini, hakkında konuştuğu şeye dönüştürmeyi başarıyor. Hem de hiç fark ettirmeden yapıyor bunu. Bir manada form, içerikten ayirt edilmez hale geliyor. Kitaba adını veren Katedral adındaki öykü insanı kıskandıracak cinsten. Tüyler, Katedral ve Küçük İyi Bir şey benim favorilerim oldu. Kitap boyunca alttan alta nedense hep 'cocuk sahibi olan ciftlerin evliliginin ve aralarindaki askin bitttigini' vermis Carver. Bir niyeti olsa gerek ya da meselesi :) Gun icinde dunyadan kopmak, bulundugunuz atmosferden uzaklasmak istiyorsaniz, her bir cumlenin hatta kelimenin, hesaplanarak yerli yerine kondugu bu harika oykuleri okumanizi siddetle tavsiye ediyorum.
This is the collection where Carver shakes off the label of "minimalist".His previous editor, Gordon Lish, was known for paring Carver's stories down to the bone.
Like these stories, those poems were written in the eighties, during Carver's sobriety.
Whereas poetry is usually about economy of language, finding that perfect word or phrase, Carver's poems were like listening to a friend who's had a few drinks and is telling you a story.
I won't give it away.Carver's early work was great, but lay in the shadow of his alcoholism, and for that reason was somewhat morbid.
I was 20 years old.
That night, I read this book cover-to-cover.
I didn't mean to---Carver's voice and characters just grabbed hold of me and wouldn't let go.
It's one of the few books I've ever read in one sitting.
These characters, I found, weren't like 'made-up' people from most other fiction I'd read up to that time.
Upon completing Cathedral, I was certain of three things: 1.) I wanted to be a writer; 2.) one could be a writer and be a blue-collar person (like Carver), not some glow-in-the-dark genius lounging in an ivory tower somewhere; 3.) I wanted to read every word Carver wrote.
18 years later, I've accomplished #3.
C'è tutta l'anima dell'America degli anni '60 in questa splendida raccolta di racconti di Raymond Carver, il mio primo incontro con questo autore, che mi ha fatto perdutamente innamorare di lui.
Appena ho iniziato a leggere "Cattedrale" ho subito intuito di avere fra le mani un libro complesso, non immediato e non facile da capire, nonostante la semplicità del linguaggio: si ha infatti la sensazione, in ogni racconto, di un restroscena in sospeso, un antefatto non detto che richiede al lettore intuito ed immaginazione affinchè la lettura possa completamente essere compresa ed apprezzata.
Tra i migliori racconti "Una cosa piccola ma buona" e "Cattedrale" sapranno catturare il cuore del lettore.
4,5*Catedral é uma colectânea de doze contos, de cunho realista, que abordam a vida de pessoas comuns e episódios do seu quotidiano.
O estilo é seco e minimalista e em todos os contos, apesar de curtos, o autor consegue criar uma tensão progressiva.
Neste conto um homem recebe em sua casa um cego que é amigo de longa data da sua mulher.
Inicialmente contrariado com a visita, e aparentemente incomodado pelo sentimento de semi-exclusão perante a intimidade da mulher com o amigo cego, os dois homens acabam por criar um laço através da partilha, num gesto quase fraterno, da visão do aspecto que tem uma catedral.
Cada cuento de este libro es una caricia de una mano fría.
