https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/948213.Success_Through_a_Positive_Mental_Attitude

Success through A Positive Mental Attitude was the life changing book I needed to read.Basically Napoleon Hill has compiled 17 Success Principles that if read and applied will help you achieve Success in all aspects of your life.The importance of having a positive mental attitude is overly emphasized as one of the greatest tools for achievement,together with having a definite purpose of life so that as you embark on the journey of life you are set with principles that have worked for many successful people.I would definitely recommend it to anyone who needs to reassess their lives

One of his timeless, priceless books.That is all.Notes :----------“Motivation is like a fire; unless you continue to add fuel, it will go out.”“Andrew Carnegie had an obsession: anything in life that was worth having was worth working for.”“Results are what count.”“Listen to this book as if we the authors were your personal friends, and were speaking to you, and you alone.”“Memorize self-motivators.”“It’s impossible for you to conceive how far up is except for the limitations of your own mind.”“When you know what you want, you are more apt to recognize it when you see it.”“Every adversity has the seed of an equivalent or greater benefit.”“Effort and work can become fun when you establish specific desirable goals.”“…We are the masters of our fate because we are masters first of our attitudes.”“… Turn the bad breaks into advantages.”"Don’t blame God for your lack of success.""Accept the priceless gift : the joy of work.""Never underestimate the repellant power of a negative mental attitude.
What do you do when you get a great idea: do you act on it immediately or do you find all the reason why your idea is doomed?This book builds on Napoleon Hill's two earlier works, "Think & Grow Rich" and its predecessor "The 17 Laws of Success", and focuses on how developing a positive mental attitude combined with the other principles will bring you closer to success.
From now, I'll write them down and review them down.I've pegged this as a foundational self-help book but I do recommend that you read "Think & Grow Rich" by Napoleon Hill first, to get the full benefit of this book.
One of the last (if not the last) books that Napoleon Hill wrote and more modern than some of his other writing. Includes very powerful list of 17 Rules of success with tons of examples on how they are applied. Also includes epic bibliography of other personal development and success books. Must read for anyone who is into self actualization, being their best and/or helping others.
I enjoyed this book so much that, as I was the director of an after school community tutoring and arts performance program, I bought copies and gave one to each of the volunteers, students and family members that answered yes when I asked if they would accept it.Tony Dollars 2/29/2012Success Through A Positive Mental Attitude
This is a book anyone could usem=, it really brings thing into perspective, and makes you take a good look at youreslf.
Out of date. Full of religious references , a merchandise product to sell books and courses, some good tips if you have not read or listened other self-help books ….
El cual nos dará como resultado de una forma sin mayores esfuerzos de disfrutar las delicias de la vida, como nuestra menta estará abierta las oportunidades para sastifizer nuestros objetivos personales.A partir de las experiencias de miles de personas existosas en lo largo de la historia el autor nos comparte en formato de lista 17 principios como parte de un curso que llamó "La ciencia del Éxito" al aplicar la AMP:1.
PUEDE DESARROLLAR Y MANTENER UNA ACTITUD MENTAL POSITIVA PERMANENTE ASUMIENDO RESPONSABILIDAD DE ADOPTAR Y APLICAR ESTOS 17 PRINCIPIOS EN SU VIDA DIARIA.DESPIERTE EL GIGANTE QUE ESTÁ DENTRO DE USTED CON AMP.
Very dated but still full of plenty of useful content.
Un tema de crucial importancia para la vida de todo emprendedor, toda persona que pretenda tener éxi
full of anecdotes, very little substance. this book is a really, really, really long pep talk about never giving up. but, I was under the impression that this book would help change the way one thinks to be more positive. reading stories about other's success isn't really changing how or the way I think.
The concept is so simple that it's almost hard to understand. Why isn't everyone successful? This books lays it out pretty simply with great examples. I am already going through this book again and plan to do so yearly to keep the message going.
This book has enlightened my thoughts about the road, challenges, spirituality, and diligence it takes to become successful. There are a few reassuring principals and beliefs that are found in this book. I highly recommend this one to any persons pursuing a career. It works! Give it a shot. :)
I am a huge believer in the power of our mind and this book illustrates the amazing things we can achieve when we combine a positive mental attitude with the right strategies. The strategies are taught through many inspirational stories. Highly recommended for everyone!
I love the message this book brings. The title says it all.
I still have a lot to learn from this book I will be re reading this book. I continue to grow and learn from those who lived before us. This book hits the nail on the head.
it would have been a great book if the ideas were summarised in 150-200 pages. Hills being Hills repeated every idea atleast 20 times.
This is one of the first books I read that made a difference for the better in my life.
The book list these 17 success principles: Positive Mental Attitude, Definiteness of purpose, Going the extra mile, Accurate thinking, Self-discipline, The Master Mind, Applied faith, a pleasing personality, Personal initiative, Enthusiasm, Controlled attention, Teamwork, Learning from defeat, Creative vision, Budgeting time and money, Maintaining sound physical and mental health, and Using cosmic habit force (Universal law).
This book gives a multitude of examples of people who used PMA (Positive Mental Attitude) to often overcome great obstacles to achieve success.
The last chapter of the book lists a bibliography of 59 books that the authors recommend reading for one's self improvement.
I do not remember where I heard about this book, but when I did, it certainly made me want to listen through this right away, because of the title and the description was something I felt I was craving for.Book certainly delivered on my high expectations, not only vocalizing the title so well, but other content as well.
Here are some highlights from my notes:+ Motivation is like fire, keep adding to it or it will go out.+ Those who believe they can, they can!+ Identify yourself with successful image.+ See a problem as a opportunity :)+ Thought can be just as effective as action.+ Do you want to feel enthusiastic?
The preface quotes Soren Kierkegaard "It is the sign of a good book when the book reads you." I felt this was true in my case as well.
I enjoyed how the book gives examples how many people have applied the concepts in the book and achieved success.
It is a type of book that will need to be read a few times to fully encompass.
It does require work but as it mentions Andrew Carnegie's motto several times in the book, "Anything in life worth having is worth working for!"
W. Clement Stone was brilliant in getting Napoleon Hill to come out of retirement to do this book with him.
I enjoyed it more than I did "Think and Grow Rich".
I think I liked it more because the verbatim used is a little more up to date and the terms seem to be more relevant to today.
This type of success is attainable to anyone.
It all starts with a positive attitude.
You will not have any sort of success with a negative attitude.
It also doesn't come with only have a positive attitude.
A lot of the stories seemed too simple/easy and it was hard to relate to them; most of the stories were business/sales related and that is probably why the difficulty in connecting for myself. Besides that, I liked all of the ideas expressed and thought they can be useful for me. But they need several more readings for me to become an owner of them and use them in my life. When I do, maybe the rating will change.
"Una buena idea seguida de la acción puede transformar el fracaso en éxito" La actitud que tomamos ante la vida sin duda marca nuestro destino, es valido fracasar pero es aun mas necesario seguir intentando; que sea nuestra determinación la que dirija nuestro rumbo. Libro matizado de muchas enseñanzas que vale la pena anotar y sobre todo poner en marcha, no es fácil pero la vida en si no es sencilla si quieres grandes cosas.
An old time classic. In it, I found the principal of the law of attraction, NLP (the use of conscious and subconscious mind) and lots of real life example of how these principals are applied in the daily life.Examples are old and vintage, but the principals taught in this book is definitely priceless and applicable in our daily life.
O carte pe care trebuie să o lași să își facă singură treaba asupra ta, acceptă să te controleze și totul va fi bine. Va urma mâine o recenzie pe blog (link în bio), însă o recomand oricum, în orice moment din viață, orice ai dori să repari la tine. Ea te va ajuta.
I would recommend to read this book before Think And Grow Rich by Napoleon Hill. If you read it after, it’s not so interesting because it’s a bit more generalist and examples are not so relevant. I had the impression that The book was written only by Clement Stone and maybe only reviewedby Hill
second read.17 key principles....loved it.
