https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/161361.The_Christmas_Box
Sometimes people would by multiple copies of it at a time to make sure everyone in the family had one.So, since it was a short book and very popular you would think I read it back then to see what all the hype was about.
I think this book will really resonate with people who try to juggle family time with the rigors of day-to-day life.Side note: The following bears no impact on my judgment of the book, I just want to make sure everyone is in the know.
This is a very faith-based book.
If I'd noticed what it was before the person left, I suppose I would have politely refused it.
(Yes, politely.
It would have been difficult, but I'd have refrained from mentioning that I am hard pressed to think of another book I despise as much as The Christmas Box and merely told her that I already own a copy.) Something in my soul rejects the idea of tossing even a book this lousy in the trash can, but it's time for a D.I. run because I gotta get both copies of this book off my shelves.
I read The Christmas Box by Richard Paul Evans yesterday afternoon.
The best thing about it was that it was short.
I feel a little like Elaine from Seinfeld when she hated the highly acclaimed "English Patient".
There must be something wrong with me.
That's the only explanation, right?Don't get me wrong.
It's a sweet story.
A sad story and a good reminder of what is really, truly important--especially at Christmas.
I get the message.
I don't care about them yet.
It's hard to be too emotionally moved by a story if you just don't care about them.
In writing The Christmas Box, I hoped that at some future time they could read this book and know of their father’s love.As I began to write, I was amazed at the inspiration which flowed into my mind and heart.
I never imagined that what began as a tale for two little girls would spread to millions throughout the world." -Richard Paul Evans, website My favorite quote:“The human life cycle no less than evolves around the box; from the open-topped box called a bassinet, to the pine box we call a coffin, the box is our past and, just as assuredly, our future.
If I read something particularly sad, I usually end up sad for a little while, and then I'm over it.
I'm not quite sure what it was about this book--but I ended up in tears.
I have a younger brother, so the message that Mary was trying to make really hit home for me--about loving what we have because we don't know how much longer we'll have it.
I really believe that people should read this little book (it's not very long) every year around this time, just as a touching reminder of the true meaning of Christmas.
What a beautiful story and great reminder about what the holiday season really should be about.
Another heart warming tale that touched me from Richard Paul Evans. I finished this book and then logged on to reserved the next one at my library. His writing style imparts a simple path to truths that we take for granted. His exposure of those truths provide genuine opportunities for emotional awakenings. I think his stories are amazing. I like his work as much as I have enjoyed Mitch Albom. Take an afternoon and reflect on the true meanings he shows us in one of his books. You will surely be so much better for the shared experience.
This is a short read but an interesting short read....I give this 4 star.
This was a really sweet book. I loved the lesson learned of the true gift of Christmas, and the love that was shared between these people. It was a really fast read and very touching, I thought that it depicted the true meaning of Christmas in a wonderful way. We have all been given a wonderful gift of eternal life, and we should all acknowledge that fact on more than the occasion of Christ's birth.
I thought this would be corny but I really loved it! My full review will be up on my booktube channel at http://Youtube.com/peterlikesbooks
I'm aware that this is now some sort of Utah-Cult-Classic, but I hated this book. It was way too sappy and way to warm and fuzzy for my liking. I probably gagged all the way through it. No offense to the whole children-dying thing that the book was trying to portray, I'm super sad for dying children, but.....
Bà là một trong những nhân vật chính khiến tác phẩm trở nên nhân văn bởi chính tâm hồn và lòng khát khao yêu thương.Sự ra đi của cô con gái nhỏ đã khiến bà thèm khát được sống và chia sẻ cuộc sống khá giả của mình với một gia đình nhỏ nào đó.
Rồi chính người bố kia lại nhận ra lời nhắn gửi yêu thương mà bà góa phụ dành cho anh, điều quý giá nhất trong cuộc đời anh chính là tuổi thơ vẹn tròn của con gái mình chứ không phải là việc quần quật kiếm tiền để chăm sóc gia đình." Con gái nhỏ quý giá của tôi.
When Richard Paul Evans wrote The Christmas Box, he intended it as a private expression of love for his two young daughters, Jenna and Allyson.
In writing The Christmas Box, he hoped that at some time in the future they would read the book and know of their father's love.
In the following weeks, those twenty copies were shared and passed along from family to family, from friend to friend, and what began as a tale for two little girls became a message of miracles, hope, and healing for people throughout the world.REVIEW: First, I have to say I love Richard Paul Evans writing.
Anyone that can read should read this book. This book has changed my life in a way words can't describe. You will just have to read it and find out yourself.This was the first and only book that has made me cry. I don't know whether it was tears of joy or sorrow. A little of both I think. Makes you think about life. This book teaches you the true meaning of Christmas. To love and to cherish your family while you still have one. For love is eternal.
If there was ever a book I was glad to have not been swayed by the bad reviews, it’s THE CHRISTMAS BOX by RICHARD PAUL EVANS.
It takes a skilled writer to pull off a novella that contains all the elements required to make a great story, and that’s exactly what RICHARD PAUL EVANS has accomplished in this wonderful short story.
As I began to read THE CHRISTMAS BOX, I didn’t have high hopes for a well-rounded story with only 87 TINY pages.
RICHARD PAUL EVANS storytelling is of one that I will not only be reading to learn the craft of writing, but seeking out his future novels.
A great short " get in the spirit" of Christmas book !!
I'm a total sap and bawled through the whole ending. It was good, but I was glad it was so short! Nice for the holidays.
Read this book in one setting and cried my eyes. Definitely a reality check at the end of the day!
Touching story on the true meaning of Christmas and on how our families should be a high priority in our lives. The ending was absolutely beautiful.
I just finished my first book hoping to start myself feel that Christmas mood!I have around 10 Christmas-related books in my tbr shelf.
But I picked this one, bought only recently, as my first this year since I read and liked Richard Paul Evan's Grace: A Novel a few months back.
Wiki says that this book, The Christmas Box made Evan became a popular writer he is now.
The Christmas Box is a light read and seems like a extended Hallmark-card (that is sometimes okay to give respite from heavy serious reading).
I have 9 other Christmas-related books in my tbr but there are more Christmases to come.
Evans would describe the setting with gigantic words and vivid colors that would jump out to you, but yet he could not describe people's actions correctly.
It was like reading a book about water marine animals- full of fact, lack of showing.For example;'Jenna looked up sadly.''Mary paused thoughtfully.''Mary looked up sadly.''She asked sleepily.''Fear seized her.''...where Mary lay delirious on the bed.'There is barely any showing to be done about the characters.
But the ending ruined any amount of feeling I had for the story.
Over all, I just feel like it was very...
Mình không thích cái kết lắm, nhưng thôi thì sự ra đi của Mary đã làm thức tỉnh ông bố ham công việc của chúng ta, rằng tuổi thơ của trẻ nhỏ mới là điều đáng quý hơn cả chứ không phải là số tiền ta đem về cho chúng.Và mình vẫn còn băn khoăn, món quà Giáng sinh đầu tiên mình nhận được là gì?-----This is a really short story that I didn't need so much time to read.
Soft story, a little too soft that I almost forgot all after 3 month finished reading.
I was a bit disappointed overall. It was written well and I have read worse but it came across (to me at least) as a piece of American Evangelical Christian stories, similar to those Left behind novels that came out a few years ago and therefore I could not connect to it, nor feel very comfortable with it, although the story it self is fairly harmless. Not too much to do with Christmas it self either, more to do with a family situation.
Quick read, well written, and convicting as a parent to not get caught up in being too busy all the time, but to make time for our loved ones, especially our children. Our children will grow up and we might miss out on their little lives. I can see myself reading this again next Christmas.
Really wonderful Christmas story, read 1st time around 20 years ago...... was just as good now as then, it's about the greatest gift of all for Christmas, recommend this short novel very highly. Just noticed that there is a second series, need to order it! Have some Kleenex handy....
Ban đầu thấy cái bìa đẹp quá, lại là câu chuyện về Giáng sinh (the most wonderful time of the year ^^), giảm giá cũng nhiều nên là mình mua luôn, không chần chừ.
Mọi thứ có vẻ diễn tiến nhanh quá, và mình không có nhiều thời gian để kịp phát triển tình cảm dành cho các nhân vật và cốt lõi của câu chuyện.Tuy nhiên, bài học chính của tác phẩm thì mình vẫn cảm được, và vẫn thấy rất thích; bài học về tinh thần thực sự của ngày Giáng sinh:
Estava a prenda de Natal de mim para mim feita.A arca de Natal é um conto que é tão belo quanto triste.É um livro pequenino que se lê numa hora ou duas.Contém uma mensagem preciosa.Uma família com uma pequena filhota, em que a mãe procura emprego, consegue esse mesmo emprego junto de uma senhora rica que mete o anúncio num jornal.
ideal.A mãe consegue o emprego, no entanto, o emprego implica que a família toda se mude para a nova casa pois a senhora, quer apoio a tempo inteiro.
. .E assim os dias se vão passando, até que algo acontece com a senhora.
I read this book quite a few years ago and knew that this was a special author.
I have read most, if not all, of his books over the years.
They are just special books that I love to share with friends and reread over time.
This time, I read the Christmas Box aloud to my daughter.
I know his parents ache for him and I hope someday they will read the Christmas Box story.
They are believers and I know they share the hope that Mrs. Parkin held onto in her grief.
I never read this book, but I did see past of the movie.
It all started when I had a dream that I was in the dentist office and I was in the chair and she came in and asked, "you want your christmas box?" I said no, and she started the drilling.
I remember that she was ugly, and scary and that I was strapped in and she drilled all over the place and there was blood and pain and I woke up in a cold sweat.
She will always traumatize me, and since I think that movie contained subliminal messages that were responsible.
sometimes his books only make good movies.
