https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4447622-some-girls-bite
Okay, so I've changed this review as a series overview.I have a list of favourite series and this one has easily pushed its way on there with Darkfever, Bittenand Magic Bites.What I really enjoy about this series: Merit does not choose to be a vampire but she lives with the changes made in her life and adjusts with as much dignity as she can.She deals intelligently and confidently at all times.
I’d been made one.
Vampire.
Predator.
Initiate into one of the oldest of the twelve vampire Houses in the United States.
And I wasn’t just one of them.I was one of the best.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦This is the series I’ve been waiting for.
The kind of series I can sink my teeth into (no pun intended).
;) After transitioning, Merit learns a LOT about the new world she lives in:A)	Vampires do exist.B)	And she’s now one of them.C)	Aaaaand she’s a very powerful one.D)	The sexy and infuriatingly enigmatic Ethan Sullivan is her Master.E)	The majority of vampires actually belong to certain Houses (think Harry Potter)F)	She belongs to the one her Master resides in (Cadogen)G)	She has to swear complete allegiance and fealty to the sexy and infuriatingly enigmatic Ethan SullivanH)	She doesn’t even know if she even likes Ethan, but she kind of wants to have his babies.
And referring to my "people" is like, so hilarious, because I'm a poor web series producer, and I have one agent and that's it and I do everything else myself and, well, whatever.Anyhoo, I'm gonna be more liberal about listing books that I read.
I enjoyed the plotting, there's nothing at all new about the vampire world, but the writing itself was strong enough that I wanted to read the whole thing and stayed up until 3am doing so.
Started to make me LOOK for similarities in plot/setup, which isn't necessarily good.Second: All the vampires live in one house like a sorority dorm, really?
OMG! How could I forgot how freaking awesome this series was. Really, I had, So Im happy I made this re-read. This is the first time I make one, I always thought it was wasting precious time you had to read other new books. But that was until now, because reading your fav books is totally worth it. And this is certainly a Fav!This book has everything a first book in a new series must have. Its entertaining, smart, sexy and delightful. I couldnt put it down, but not just that, I wanted to run to
This is the first time I make one, I always thought it was wasting precious time you had to read other new books.
But that was until now, because reading your fav books is totally worth it.
I only saw this chemistry in one other couple, and that was Barrons & Mac. They don´t do more than a kiss but you´re totally obsessed to re-read every little dialogue that goes between them, yo can´t help to look for every detail.
The relationship between them is so natural and undeniable that every look, every gesture counts.I would have to recommend this book to everyone who hasn´t read it yet.
After plowing through 50 pages of it, I don't see anything remotely interesting about this book.
It simply seems like every other write-by-numbers UF novel.
I feel like I've read it a million times before.
It is written a little better than Halfway to the Grave, but there is not even sex (yet) and spunky dialog in a sea of uninspired prose and world-building to keep me engaged.
Truly, there is no point to read any UF series written in last 2-3 years, they draw too heavily on existing works of better UF writers and are produced only to get a piece of already over-saturated popular UF/PNR market.
Chloe Neill is not a bad writer and she uses most of what you'd expect to find in the genre: strong heroine, hot vampires, bit of mystery thrown in for good measure...
The characters can always make or break a book, Chloe Neill could have saved her novel from being the mirror image of all the others if she'd just taken the time to develop a protagonist that we haven't seen before.And as for that aforementioned beau: if you're writing an urban fantasy or paranormal romance novel and you want to create the perfect mr sexy, what don't you do?
WHAT I LOVED ABOUT SOME GIRLS BITE:It’s flat out HILARIOUS!
Sure, having a love interest is important but the fact that Merit has Mallory at her side from the very beginning is great to see.
Neill does a fantastic job with maintaining a strong sense of attachment between the two without having them rely on each other fulltime.Catcher Bell – I’m loving my fourth grade sorcerer.
How can a girl not love Ethan?
I just loved the sexual tension between Merit and Ethan.
Though it’s not perfect, I’m interested to see how things play out in Friday Night Bites.
⋰⋱⋰⋱⋰⋱*I was so nervous*⋰⋱⋰⋱⋰⋱   Re-read: 28.01.2018 (This second reading review is mostly a review where I mention the characters) I can't even begin to tell how nervous and scared I was to re-read this book. Why, you ask? Well, when I read this book (and series) for the first time I  loved  it. So damn much. In fact, it was one of my favorite series. So reading it now scared the living hell out of me. I mean, what if I don't love it anymore? It's been years since I've read. 4 years in fact, a
I still love it enough to want to re-read the whole series, so that is indeed saying something.
Caroline ‘Merit’ ‘Mer’ Merit (27 (became vampire weeks before her 28 birthday), turns 28 at 60% into the book) is still the awesome, independent woman.
- Yes.New Rating - 4 stars.First read review:Some Girls Bite by Chloe Neill(Chicagoland Vampires #1)Caroline (Merit) Merit, a graduate student was attacked by a rouge vampire while walking on campus while it was dark outside.
But no matter if she want it or not she still needs Ethan to stay alive...The characters in this book are just perfect!
I read this for the sake of procrastination, works well to pass the time I guess, though there are better books out there.Another book about vampires.
After Merit is turned into a vampire, she just goes along with it.
No questions or even thinking of what abilities she gains OR why she doesn't want to be a vampire, aside from the whole not-being-able-to-go-back-to-grad-school/asking her consent first.
Physically very strong, she's got mental abilities as well, all very surprising for a newly turned vampire.
(view spoiler)[The most action-packed scenes were probably with Mallory and Catcher.
4.5 Stars ❤ This was a hilarious, quick read and it's been ages since I've read a good vampire book ;-)
4.5 Stars ❤️ This was a hilarious, quick read and it's been ages since I've read a good vampire book ;-)
This review can also be found at Carole's Random Life.3.5 StarsBefore I started reading this book, I was absolutely positive that I was going to go crazy over this series like some kind of deranged teenager.
Unfortunately, my expectations far exceeded my reality and I must admit that I am just a wee bit disappointed about it.Please don't get me wrong...I liked this book quite a bit but the problem is that I didn't love it.
I would still recommend this book and I do plan to continue to read this series but with a more realistic expectation.
“It is better to be hated for what you are,than to be loved for what you are not.”  It’s been eight months since vampires have outed their existence to the humans. Vampires doesn’t really interest grad student Merit, who would rather focus on her studies. Until she’s attacked by a rogue vampire, and in order to save Merit’s life, Master vampire Ethan Sullivan, turns her.  Now suddenly Merit has to come to terms with her new life as a vampire, saying goodbye to her studies and the life she thoug
I loved the attitude she gave Ethan, who expected her to be grateful, to be like everyone else and just do what he wanted.
And I really liked some of the other Cadogan vampires.
I can’t wait to see what powers Merit might have, and to see her growing stronger and better as a vampire.
Then later in the book Merit walks in on him having sex with Amber.
This was my first book by this author, and I really liked this world and the writing.
Hopefully he dies in the next book, and all will be good again in the Chicagoland Vampires world.
The book starts out with a very chick-lit feel, with Merit, the newly-made vamp discussing her clothes and 'boys' (more on that later) and her lack of sex life, faithfully accompanied by best friend/sidekick Mallory.
(Don't try to tell me she doesn't know, it's not like he keeps it a secret, and besides, she's a vampire with super-hearing!)And the fact that he is cheating and stabbing his girlfriend in the back has so little significance for Merit that she doesn't give it even a couple of minutes headspace?5.
Because I had the gut feeling to skim read the story for any of my pet peeves.
It just so conveniently happens, that Merit sees it all, even gets feelings of lust.
And, I'm not done yet, ha!, while he's having sex with that bitch, Ethan sees Merit, wishes and hopes she came to him to take the bitches place and at the end even get's so disapponted that that didn't happen.
The sad part is that I really liked the plot, otherwise.
I mean, reaaaly liked it.
And to think that I've wasted so much precious time on finding and then actually reading this story...
I also think that the series has some potential with the relationship between Merit and Ethan left mostly untapped.
The way that the vampires houses were just like fraternities.
I think you can make a book funny and fun and still have it feel deadly serious at the right moments (Thank you Night Huntress!!!!).
Let's do a kegger!In terms of Merit herself, I think that she acted like a huge brat over the whole "change into a vampire" thing.
I think if this book had ramped up the tension, I would have enjoyed it more.
I listened to the audio, and that tends to downrate a book for me, for some reason.
Aside from a few narrators, I tend to want different inflection than what I get.
Love when that happens!!I love a slow burning romance, and that is what is happening between Ethan and Merit.
Since the story is set in modern times, and within weeks of the "coming out" of vampires, there is little to no world building.
If nothing else, it will be just kick ass to ride along and see what the series has in store for Merit.
She doesn't petition the school, doesn't meet with her advisor, doesn't continue writing her diss...She's introduced to people who lived hundreds of years ago, and is too busy cataloguing their clothes (why do all vampires wear designer labels in all-black?) to wonder if they saw a play at the original Globe, or how they feel about language shifts, or what songs or folk legends they know that have been lost to history.
I'm not going to say this book is awesome, it wasn't, but it was exactly what I was in the mood to read at the moment.
I've been turned into a (insert supernatural being).
All of the female (insert supernatural being) will be so jealous!
I have special powers that most other (insert supernatural being) don't have so I am super awesome and everyone either wants me on their side or wants to kill me because I will eventually turn into the ultimate badass.Notice, though, that I gave it 4 stars.
(contrary to the cardboard idiot female lead characters that abound in these types of books)
I have like 4 or 5 at the top of my stack that I haven't read yet which makes me alternately giddy and disgusted (with myself).So yeah, it's been a couple of years since I've had any quality time with Merit and Ethan, and I would just like to take a moment and smack my own head b/c Merit and Ethan are AH-mazing.
I love Ethan even when he's being a total a-hole (which lets face it, at this point is most of the time).
I love to HATE Morgan (slimy bugger that he is).And JEFF.
My self-esteem was never suffer again and I'd always be laughing.I guess I'll have to make do with reading Book 2, and I'll be doing that right now.
What was really interesting here is the way Neill portrayed the struggles Merit goes through after being turned into a vampire against her will.
Can’t wait to find out what happens between the two of them in the next instalments.The other characters in the book are just great.
Catcher and Jeff are probably my favourite.As far as first instalments in a series go, Some Girls Bite is definitely a winner and one of the best I have ever read.
First instalments are not usually as good as the rest in the series as the author has to set the story arc in motion, define the main characters and the world they live in.
But, I am happy to say that I liked the main character in this book, Merit, right away.
I liked her!Oh, Ethan, you want me to be your whore consort after knowing me for two days?
"Just to review, you're pissed about being made a vampire, and we hate this Ethan Sullivan guy, right?"I thumbed through the Canon's thick pages...
Obviously, Ethan is the asshat alpha who is the lead vampire in their house.
This world has a vampire scene like the college Greek scene - it's all about which House you pledge to.
Anyone who is a fan of Vampire Academy will love the sarcastic, meat-loving, ass-kicking Merit. This is a fun series that follows a typical "newly formed vamp" story, but is also filled with lots of great action and excellent training sequences. The power plays between the different covens is well done, Merit's relationships with her friends is strong and true, and there are some super cute guys in it. A fast-paced, thoroughly entertaining start to the series.
The plot had no urgency to it, the characters irritated me, the action cheesy, and the romance had me rolling my eyes.
First, there's Merit getting turned, oh, so conveniently, but I excuse that because that's the setup for the book, and I can ignore one major coincidence.
There's a big dramatic scene towards the end where Ethan does something that makes Merit feel all betrayed, but considering that they're not dating and are barely friends her self pity just made me roll my eyes.
Rating 4 1/2 starsSometimes I sat in my car snickering while I listened to this novel.
Lots of male eye candy.
Hot cars and chic houses.
And swords.
Did I mention the swords are katanas?
A lot.
The narrative is good, the plot is a bit opened-ended but resolved.
I knew who all the perpetrators were already by the end, but was pleased to listen in on all the motivations.
The audio made my trips to and from work quite novel.
You have much groveling to do, and lots of shznit to atone for.
Here is a favorite book of mine I rated when I first joined, but never wrote a review for.
This is a series that I am not up to date on, but have read the first six or so of.
Sometimes it has annoyed me, sometimes it has given me a lot of lovely book feels.
Ethan Sullivan is one of my favorite UF book boyfriends.
But I never wrote a proper review for this, so I thought I'd let my awesome Goodreads buddy, oOSarahOo speak for me, since she says it perfectly.
Check out her review!
You're awesome-sauce.
Merit never asked to be changed into a vampire, however, when she is attacked on her college campus that's exactly what happens. Her sudden change in circumstances throws her life in chaos as she struggles to come to terms with being, unwillingly, morphed into one of the undead. Especially when she is confronted with head of the house of vampires to which she now must pledge her loyalty, the gorgeous Ethan Sullivan. Both Ethan and Merit resent their unwilling chemistry towards one another, but
Both Ethan and Merit resent their unwilling chemistry towards one another, but must learn to trust each other as a plot to endanger the house reveals itself as more girls are attacked by supposedly rogue vampires.I picked this book as part of my TBR jar read, the first actual book in the series- rather than an ebook - has been lingering on my shelf for a few years doing a fabulous job collecting dust.
Vampires are also political animals and I expect that will come into play more and more as the series progresses.This was a solid start to a UF series and I will definitely be continuing to read it.
❞Let's face it : sometimes we don't really know why we love a book.
A book about vampires.
I mean, come on, all that bite-stuff is gross, right?
❞Now I need to warn you : I'm not sure I'm really skilled enough to review that book.
I mean, hey, I almost never read urban fantasy and usually I don't like it.
Two vampires' books in a raw?
**************************************Basically, look at my face when I meet vampires in books - Yes, I know, that's rude.
While I was a huge fan of Buffy and Spike, I never found a book about vampires which appeals to me.
I LOVE Merit - she's a really cool heroine (funny, badass, practical, not too stupid).
Ethan seems like kind of a pussy though, and totally not good enough for her.
(view spoiler)[ I think Ethan is lame so far, but that one scene between him and Merit was AWESOME -- you know, that one where she gets hit with that bloodlust or hunger or whatever and is whispering his name and he's trying not to touch her but can't move away and she's about to bite him -- that was like.
Good scene ;)  (hide spoiler)]
4 Kasım geldi ve işte merakla beklenen Blog turumuz! 3.kez Blog Turumuzla karşınızdayız!Türkiyenin ilk Blog TuruÜtopik Kızların GünlüğüÜKG BirliğiDaha önceden iki blog tur düzenlemiş, çok güzel tepkiler almıştık. Türkiye bir ilki başarmanın verdiği heyecan bu tepkilerle birleşti ve yolumuza 3. turumuzla devam ediyoruz. Bu sefer Optimum Kitaptan Bazı Kızlar Isırır'ı eleştirdik, yorumladık, test hazırladık.ÜKG Blog Tur hakkında buradan bilgi edinebilirsiniz!: Blog Tur BilgiDaha önceki Blog Turlarımız için ise burası: Blog Turlarımız Devamı linkte!!http://kitabisevda.blogspot.com/2012/...
4,5 starsDid I love this book? Well, damn.Merit blew my fucking world out of its hinges.Having been robbed of her humanity after a vicious vampire attack, Merit, grad student and daughter of a mediatic figure in the Chicago scene, is rescued by Ethan Sullivan, who makes her a vampire. And so she is suddenly required to join the ranks of House Cadogan, one of the North American vampire affiliations, and obey a quite rigid feudal-like system.Needless to say, in a matter of three days, Merit finds
Well, damn.Merit blew my fucking world out of its hinges.Having been robbed of her humanity after a vicious vampire attack, Merit, grad student and daughter of a mediatic figure in the Chicago scene, is rescued by Ethan Sullivan, who makes her a vampire.
And so she is suddenly required to join the ranks of House Cadogan, one of the North American vampire affiliations, and obey a quite rigid feudal-like system.Needless to say, in a matter of three days, Merit finds herself immersed in a reality she doesn't understand.
He's got the hots for Merit.
