https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/522525.Mistakes_Were_Made_But_Not_by_Me_
Like I said, a lot of this book I found very challenging, but all of it very compelling.One of the psychological insights that has been messing around with my mind lately is the idea that if you ask someone who is studying to become a doctor why one of their fellow students is also becoming a doctor they are likely to say that it is obvious that that person is virtually made to be a doctor.
The book points out that despite our often simple-minded ideas that some people are just basically bad and that they do things just to be evil, in fact, most people who ‘do evil’ imagine they are doing good.
"People will do anything, no matter how absurd, to avoid facing their own souls." -  C.G. Jung    "Memory is a complicated thing, a relative to truth, but not its twin." -  Barbara KingsolverNeither of the quotes above were included in this book, but they speak to some of the ideas at its core. Anyone who has any social psychology, experimental methods course, and/or paid cursory attention to the bevy of material out there about how the human mind and we, as people, work, will find a lot of fam
Anyone who has any social psychology, experimental methods course, and/or paid cursory attention to the bevy of material out there about how the human mind and we, as people, work, will find a lot of familiar concepts in 
are just two of the means by which we find evidence for what we're looking for, and causes that aren't there and there are plenty of great research and case studies (some of which is in this book) that illustrate these ideas.These ubiquitous feats of mental gymnastic give rise to various appalling truths, one of which is best described by research psychologist John Kihlstrom.
Sometimes, I think that the world is full of hypocrites.
Everyday we see religious advocates who call for peace and in the same breath state that their God is the only true God. Then, there's the business world where lying and cheating seem to be part of the game.
Mistake Were Made (but not by me) addresses that exact question.
Thus, the politician, religious leader, business person, or even ourselves often don't realize that we are being hypocritical.
Instead of admitting that we were wrong, we justify our actions even more strongly.
Mistake Were Made (but not by me) was a huge eye opener.
عالی و بسیار خواندنی. نویسندگان با آوردن نمونهها و ارجاع به پژوهشهای روانشناسی اجتماعی نشان میدهند که چرا پذیرفتن اشتباههایمان اینقدر سخت است و چرا و چگونه به توجیه خودمان میپردازیم. همینطور تمایل ما به از بین بردن ناهماهنگیهای ذهنی چطور موجب بیآبرویی میشود. فقط خیلی ناراحتم که چرا صورت اصلی اسامی در پانویس نیامده. بهشخصه دوست داشتم تعدادی از پژوهشگران را در اینترنت پیدا کنم و کارهایشان را بخوانم و چون دیکته اصلی را نمیدانم کارم سخت شده. یک نمرهٔ منفی برای ناشر.
عالی و بسیار خواندنی. نویسندگان با آوردن نمونه‌ها و ارجاع به پژوهش‌های روانشناسی اجتماعی نشان می‌دهند که چرا پذیرفتن اشتباه‌هایمان این‌قدر سخت است و چرا و چگونه به توجیه خودمان می‌پردازیم. همین‌طور تمایل ما به از بین بردن ناهماهنگی‌های ذهنی چطور موجب بی‌آبرویی می‌شود. فقط خیلی ناراحتم که چرا صورت اصلی اسامی در پانویس نیامده. به‌شخصه دوست داشتم تعدادی از پژوهشگران را در اینترنت پیدا کنم و کارهایشان را بخوانم و چون دیکته اصلی را نمی‌دانم کارم سخت شده. یک نمرهٔ منفی برای ناشر.
This thing (Cognitive Dissonance) is in fact a feature (not a flaw) of the human mind/brain.
The cost that the reader pays for the afore mentioned rewards (enhanced self honesty, growth, insight etc), is the very experience of painful dissonance the book so expertly describes.
The cost that I'm referring to, is the naked experience of the pain of realizing that we are in fact human after all.
Read the book, eat the red pill, embrace the painful glare of the light of day, and live a life of more freedom.
ما میخواهیم و آرزو داریم این جمله را با گوشهای خودمان بشنویم که «خطا کردم. تمام تلاشم را میکنم که دوباره این اشتباه را مرتکب نشوم.» اتفاقات زمان انتخابات که شامل دادن وعده و بعد توجیه خلف وعدهها که ویژگی مشترک تمام سیاستمداران دنیاست٬ انگیزهی اصلی من برای خواندن این کتاب بود.چه میشود که خودمان٬ اشتباهاتمان و اشتباهات افرادی که بهشان باور داریم را توجیه میکنیم؟این کتاب کمکمان میکند از این سازوکار سردربیاوریم.بررسی عملکرد مغز همیشه برای من جذّاب است. وقتی چیزی را باور داریم و یا به عبارت بهتر٬ وقت
تمام تلاشم را می‌کنم که دوباره این اشتباه را مرتکب نشوم.» اتفاقات زمان انتخابات که شامل دادن وعده و بعد توجیه خلف‌ وعده‌ها که ویژگی مشترک تمام سیاستمداران دنیاست٬ انگیزه‌ی اصلی من برای خواندن این کتاب بود‌.چه می‌شود که خودمان٬ اشتباهات‌مان و اشتباهات افرادی که به‌شان باور داریم را توجیه می‌کنیم؟این کتاب کمک‌مان می‌کند از این سازوکار سردربیاوریم.بررسی عملکرد مغز همیشه برای من جذّاب است.
توجیه منحصر به شنیدن چیزی خلاف عقایدمان نمی‌شود؛ برای مثال وقتی قرار است بین دو خانه با مزیت‌های متفاوت یکی را انتخاب کنیم و بخریم٬ بعد از خریدن یکی از این خانه‌ها٬ شروع می‌کنیم به توجیه کردن و مثلاً روی خانه‌ای که نخریدیم عیب می‌گذاریم و یا مدام از خانه‌ای که خریده‌ایم تعریف می‌کنیم.مغز ما دارای نقاط کوری‌ست؛ خاطرات را در جهت کاهش ناهماهنگی ذهنی تحریف می‌کند.
فقط بگویم که این کتاب به شکلی بسیار عجیب آدمی رو با خودش رو در رو می کنه و دریچه ی بسیار شگفت انگیزی در ذهن باز می کنه که می تونه اساسِ فکر و رفتار و کردار رو تغییر بده.
دست رو یک امر بدیهی گذاشته که دستِ کم این کمترین هماره ازش غفلت کردم و بعد اگر گسترشش بدیم می بینیم که برخی مشکل های بسیار پیچیده و عجیب از کجا و چرا ظهور می کنن و چرا یکی از خوبی هاش(که بسیاره خوبی هاش) کاربردی بودنشم هست.
هم مشکل رو بیان می کنه و هم راهکاررو بیان می کنه.
This was really a GREAT book, but a lot has changed since i picked it up *but i promise that i'll get back to you and read THE WHOLE book this time not just few pages. it's not you sweetie it's me....sometimes i talk to books like they're real people, not creepy at all*! i got really distracted by shiny new books that were delivered to my house and i just couldn't focus on this one. Sorry..
Ultimately, I think that Tavris's conclusions about self-justification are probably correct, but her argument was flawed.
Tavris did back up her claims about self-justification with some psychological research (that sounded like it was peer-reviewed, I guess), but it was pretty sparse (like 1 study per chapter if that---as opposed to anecdote after anecdote after anecdote).
Even though she had a good point, I feel that most of the situations are more complex than she made them out to be.3) She used a lot of logical fallacies.
And she heavily relied on either-or logic to support her claims.4) Throughout the whole book she speaks about self-justification as though it were a fundamental flaw in human psychology.
كاش اين كتاب را با سوگند قانون اساسي به رييس جمهور و با اعتبارنامه به نمايندگان مجلس تحويل بدهند. حتي با استخدام به تمام اساتيد دانشگاه بدهند، با هر جواز كسب به كاسبان بدهند، و به تمام ستارگان سينما و مجريان تلويزيون و هر اهل سياست و حرفي بدهند. اشتباه كردن انقدر مهم نيست كه انكار اشتباه يا توجيه ان يا كتمان ان يا تكرار ان يا در خفا استمرار آن. اين يك ريويو نيست، فقط آرزوست، آرزويي بزرگ
First, this book ranks right up there with Jimmy Carter’s famed “Great Malaise” speech that pointed an accusing finger at the American people for all of their problems.
Biases in perception, even the automatic activation of stereotypes are easier to get people to believe than trying to show them how every decision or experience we have is colored by the process of making ourselves appear consistent.
Only suggestion I would make is to try to use more examples from across the political spectrum to arrest any rationalization ammo for critics of the book.
In this book we see the the trail of self-justification through the territories of family, memory, therapy, law, prejudice, conflict, and war.How we do self justification before the decision and after the decision is taken Example : U.S - Iraq war It show how self justification work in Iraq war.It started with Iraq had pile of weapon of mass destruction but at the end of event there was no such thing still we try to justified the event with other matter such as stability in Middle East democracy and terrorism etc .People even see lack of evidence as an evidence .Consequence of self-justification: how it exacerbates prejudice and corruption, distorts memory, turns professional confidence into arrogance, creates and perpetuates injustice, warps love, and generates feuds and rifts.How cognitive dissonance works?cognitive dissonance, the hardwired psychological mechanism that creates self-justification and protects our certainties, self-esteem, and affiliations.Then book talk about of Bias of memory .How Memory is reconstructive and subjective to source of confusion.Parent blaming is popular and convenient form of self justification .Memories create our stories, but our stories also create our memories.
As an example, for a religious person to admit that there are no gods, they have to confront the enormous cognitive dissonance that they think of themselves as smart, well-educated, pragmatic - but have, for many years, been putting vast amounts of effort, emotion, thought, and perhaps money into something that hasn't the slightest basis in reality.
He confronted the fact that he had been giving people useless medical treatments for years, as a homeopathic doctor, and has since become a crusader for science-based medicine.One of the most disappointing realizations for me, as an educator, is that clear explanation with ample evidence generally will not change people's minds.
Thanks to our ego-preserving blind spots, we cannot possibly have a prejudice, which is an irrational or mean-spirited feeling about all members of another group.
… When confidence and convictions are unleavened by humility, by an acceptance of fallibility, people can easily cross the line from healthy self-assurance to arrogance.At all ages, people can learn to see mistakes not as terrible personal failings to be denied or justified, but as inevitable aspects of life that help us grow, and grow up.
کی بود کی بود دربارهٔ خودفریبی است. تلاش ذهن برای دفاع از شریف بودن خویشتن و توجیه هر رفتار نادرست را نشان میدهد. این توجیهات نه تنها در زبان و برای فریب دیگران، بلکه در ذهن و برای نگهداشت شرافت خویش است. دربارهٔ تغییر حافظه به نفع خویشتن و تلاش ذهن برای یافتن مقصر دیگر میگوید. در فصلهای مختلف از اشتباهات سیاستمداران، بازجوها، قاضیان، پزشکان و ... توجیهات آنها میگوید.گاهی این توجیهات با مغالطههای منطقی یک راه را میروند و حتی میتوان نگاهی منطقی به این کتاب داشت.کتاب طولانی است و به نظرم میشد در ح
کی بود کی بود دربارهٔ خودفریبی است.
تلاش ذهن برای دفاع از شریف بودن خویشتن و توجیه هر رفتار نادرست را نشان می‌دهد.
این توجیهات نه تنها در زبان و برای فریب دیگران، بلکه در ذهن و برای نگهداشت شرافت خویش است.
دربارهٔ تغییر حافظه به نفع خویشتن و تلاش ذهن برای یافتن مقصر دیگر می‌گوید.
در فصل‌های مختلف از اشتباهات سیاستمداران، بازجوها، قاضیان، پزشکان و ...
توجیهات آنها می‌گوید.گاهی این توجیهات با مغالطه‌های منطقی یک راه را می‌روند و حتی می‌توان نگاهی منطقی به این کتاب داشت.کتاب طولانی است و به نظرم می‌شد در حجم کمتری آن را نوشت اما خواندنی است.
Four words:Cognitive dissonanceConfirmation biasAccording to the authors, therein lies the explanation for people's unwillingness to admit mistakes, even to themselves, in a variety of realms.
And it offers a basic explanation: we have a difficult time integrating two conflicting beliefs, such as "I'm a great person" and "I messed up" (cognitive dissonance).
Are people ever correct for clinging to a belief or course of action even in the face of conflicting evidence?
And although the actual explanations for this phenomenon are probably more complex and varied, the authors offer a good start at facing this problem and attempting to understand and hopefully challenge people's unwillingness to admit mistakes.
You rationalize it ("someone must have moved it") instead of accepting the most obvious answer ("I was mistaken in thinking that I did it").The book goes even further into big mistakes that people make and refuse to admit, such as in the criminal system where suspects are locked away for years ("I know he's the rapist so I'll interrogate him for hours until he finally confesses") until DNA finally proves their innocence.
For example, maybe a friend asked for a favor and you said no.
Then you start justifying the answer, "She wouldn't have helped me if I had asked for a favor.
(The famous Milgram experiment in which college students were willing to electrocute other research subjects was an example of such incremental self-justification, because if the student can justify 50 volts than he can eventually justify 450 volts.) Depending on which way we first lean from the top of the pyramid, we can land at different sides of the pyramid, because once we start on a course of action we tend to continue justifying our actions in the same direction.
As we self-justify and confabulate, we may develop false memories of things like having been abducted by aliens, molested as a child, imprisoned in a concentration camp or kept in an orphanage.
This is my favorite book, period! Carol Tavris and Elliot Aronson demonstrate how cognitive dissonance accounts for our inability to see our faults, from our personal lives all the way to the highest levels of government. This will change the way you view your own thoughts and actions, and make you a better person as a result.
The most chilling aspect of the book is that it points out how we all are subject to dealing with dissonance (usually in self-justifying ways), what we think we know or remember is probably not the case, regardless of which side we're on, and most of our leaders and public figures shirk responsibility for mistakes.Some highlights:- Reasoning areas of the brain "virtually shut down" when we are confronted with dissonant information, and emotion circuits light up when consonance is restored.
In fact, the last president to clearly admit to a major mistake was John F.
I've been a longtime fan of both authors (especially Tavris), so my expectations were pleasantly met. Most of it, of course, is hammering away at how the fundamental attribution error influences relationships between couples, coworkers, or nations. They reframe the psychobabble as "self-justification" as the root of these conflicts and ongoing interpersonal difficulties. Their citations of clinical works also brings up the interesting possibility that mindfulness-based interventions may be most effective when they undermine self-justification, inserting some space between events and affect, but that's fodder for a much longer post.
Mistakes Were Made is a tour through the different ways in which cognitive dissonance motivates otherwise normal, good people to do wretched things.
Making such stops as the tragedies of recovering so-called repressed memories, the unfortunate bias of the parts of the legal system which are immune to criticism, and growing disparities of perception between perpetrators and victims,  Mistakes Were Made also highlights many other scientific and psychological tidbits.
Carol Tavris and Elliot Aronson weave a slowly accelerating narrative of the power of cognitive dissonance in our lives, one that grows ever closer to home.
Mistakes Were Made highlights the biases we have toward creation delusional or unproductive stories to guide our lives.
A highly engaging discussion on how people use self-justification to avoid admitting they've made a mistake or hurt someone or otherwise deal with the "cognitive dissonance" we encounter when one of our cherished beliefs runs aground on the rock of cold, hard reality.
Nonetheless, it is eye opening and provides a useful tool for self-diagnosis, even if the suggestions for how to deal with someone else suffering from "cognitive dissonance" and "confirmation bias" are little light (not that I wouldn't have minded having read that last chapter about a week earlier, considering some recent going-ons here and there).
A bit uneven and towards the end a bit too Oprah-centric. Felt like the book drifted from a scientific/psychological work to a clinical/self-help piece (a rational, scientifically grounded self-help book, but still one regardless). It was interesting, but sadly disappointing too.
To an outsider, our actions may appear absurd, but to us they might seem completely rational—the "right" choice.The book goes through myriad examples to explain how and why self-justification and cognitive dissonance exist and persist.
This, along with the existence of God, is something I cannot imagine will ever be solved, but cognitive dissonance and confirmation bias make it that much more difficult.Near the end of the book, I started thinking of the concept of karma.
I was (uncomfortably) shocked to the core reading this- others attest to same. Particularly disturbing are the passages on the judiciary. None of it sits comfortably on any level, and I found myself 'guilty' on most charges. Working on ways currently to mitigate the self-justification effect for myself: but its sooooo hard. Especially when you don't realise you're doing it.
۱- در فصل اول، کتاب از ناهماهنگی ذهن میگوید. وقتی که مدتها کاری را انجام دادهایم و حالا میخواهیم تصمیممان را توجیه کنیم. نویسندگان مثالهای متعددی از سیاستمداران آمریکایی میآورند. موقع توجیهکردن، خودمان هم توجیهمان را باور میکنیم، و این فرق دارد با دروغ.«گزینش و ورود دشوار میزان علاقهی شخص را به گروه بیشتر میکند.»۲- بعد از نقش تعصبی که کمابیش در همهی انسانها وجود دارد میگویند. ۳- در فصل سوم میگویند حافظه در خدمت توجیه قرار میگیرد؛ بقول نامجو، حافظه خود کلانتر جان است!اینکه هربار که چیزی را بهخاطر
۳- در فصل سوم می‌گویند حافظه در خدمت توجیه قرار می‌گیرد؛ بقول نامجو، حافظه خود کلانتر جان است!این‌که هربار که چیزی را به‌خاطر می‌آوریم، نه اصل موضوع، که بازسازی‌ای تازه از آن را به‌یاد می‌آوریم، حرف فیلمی است که اخیرا دیده‌ام: Pastoral: To Die in the Country۴- در فصل چهارم از تلقین‌پذیری حافظه طی جلسات روان‌درمانی می‌گوید؛ این‌که شیوه‌ی یادآوری خاطرات گم‌شده که در فروید ریشه دارد، چطور به بیماران باوراند که حقیقتا در گذشته مورد تجاوز قرار گرفته‌اند، اما آن را واپس زده‌اند.۵- کتاب در فصل بعد از بی‌گناهانی می‌گوید که به‌خاطر تعصب بازجوها به خطاناپذیری‌شان، اعتراف دروغین کرده‌اند و محکوم شده‌اند.۶- فصل ششم مرا یاد تئاتر برلینِ محمد یعقوبی انداخت.
دعوای یک زوج از هر دو زاویه‌دید را می‌گوید، بعد علت بنیادی اختلاف را می‌یابد، و سپس راهکار می‌دهد‌.۷- «هر چه فرد خاطی مغرور تر بود، بیشتر قربانی را تحقیر میکرد.»۸- فصل آخر مرا یاد آن شخصیت کتاب «ممّد مردی که مُرد» انداخت.
"A tree Is Known By its Fruit " , so as this book  The title of the book was precisely picked .It was such a great experience and trip for me to read such a wonderful and well written socio psychological book.
Social psychologist Marilynn Brewer, who has been studying the nature of stereotypes for many years, once reported that her daughter returned from kindergarten complaining that “boys are crybabies.”25 The child’s evidence was that she had seen two boys crying on their first day away from home.
Brewer, ever the scientist, asked whether there hadn’t also been little girls who cried.
I didn’t cry.” Brewer’s little girl was already dividing the world, as everyone does, into us and them.
Cognitive dissonance is a topic everyone should look into, but people placed in positions of leadership or responsibility would really benefit from a study on the matter.
I enjoyed the examples presented in this book and related with a few of them as well, which helped me really understand the concept better.
Once the concept of cognitive dissonance is explained (very well too), the additional proses is just more in-depth examples and case studies.
These examples are actually pretty interesting in their own right and kept me engaged in the book, but did not introduce any new concepts.
Fascinating and eye-opening analysis of cognitive dissonance and the steps we take to reduce the dissonance. Politicians are the easy targets, and exploited here as such, but Tavris & Aronson also delve into personal stories. Several of them held up a mirror to my own self-justifications and made me flinch. Riveting and insightful. Recommended.
