https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/116297.Desert_of_the_Heart
Desert of the Hearts is a wise and witty novel that in essence tells the story of English professor, Dr Evelyn Hall, and her desire to be free of the confines of a marriage and live as an independent woman.
That is why, for any woman, marriage is the 		idiom of life.”It is at the boarding house of matronly Frances Packer and her impish and high-spirited son, Walter, that Evelyn meets the striking Ann Childs, a quick-witted, perceptive and confident woman fifteen-years her junior.
It’s easy to forget when you’re reading Desert of the Heart, by American-turned Canadian author Jane Rule, that it was actually published in 1964.
But it is essential to remember, because it’s astonishing, really, that this kind of lesbian novel was even published (in hardcover no less) at a time when cheap paperback lesbian pulp novels—with appropriately depressing endings—were the only kind of contemporary books available with queer women’s content.
It’s not only that the novel doesn’t condemn either of the women for their desire, although that is significant; it’s that Desert of the Heart presents a startlingly psychologically complex reading of a lesbian relationship.
For Evelyn Hall, respectable college professor, stepping outside the conventions of her life forces her to examine them and question what she never before doubted, that women are supposed to marry, have children, and that she has failed because she played poorly at this game.
If she accepts that she does love Evelyn, does that mean then that she must accept the other cliches about love that she has denied, that some of them might indeed be real and achievable, like fidelity, like "forsaking all others?" There is an argument posed in the book about whether the human will or its nature influences us to choose or deny love.
This book reminds me a lot of a typical Woody Allen movie. There is so much talking going on (which is hard to follow sometimes). It's an okay story but it seems a little outdated sometimes. The characters are a little too complex and one-sided for my taste. It's well written but still there was no spark
I'd seen the movie, "Desert Hearts," but never got around to reading the book that was the basis for the movie.
It's kind of odd today to read characters so casually consuming large amounts of alcohol and the cavalier attitude toward smoking.
But, that aside, it's an interesting picture of an older woman coming out (though not in the same sense we think of today) and falling in love with a younger woman.It's somewhat dry with none of the overt passion one might expect from the description.
I guess the "U-Haul" stereotype was true even back then.It's an interesting book but not a great one.
The endless empty sky and sand are intimidating to protagonist Evelyn, and a comfort to her love interest, the younger Ann. And despite the timelessness of the desert, the semi-oppressive early 1960s setting stands out, too.Ann is a little bit lost, but confident in her intention "to love the whole damned world." This sentiment is something that Evelyn, recovering from a mutually destructive hetero relationship, cannot share.
I don't remember rooting for the characters in the movie, but the book versions of Evelyn and Ann seeped into me.
Where Roger Ebert took points off on the movie for its simplicity, the book offers a more complex character study of Evelyn Hall (called Vivian in the film).
It's been years since I saw film and I remember the basic plot, the core of which stays true to the book.
While the movie implies their romance progressed with some reluctance on Evelyn's part, the book shows the woman better equipped to handle their feelings for the other.
All the elements of the book: the place, the people, the settings, the emotions and the underlying artifice of the plot present a truly human, authentic and living view of the complexities that underline all our interactions and relationships.I met Jane Rule many, many years ago and it was just a passing interaction I had with her, but my impression of her was authentic, as well.
As a very young lesbian, easily impressed with any outward display of lesbianism (we’re talking late 70’s here) this book gave more gravitas and confidence to my sexuality.
Evelyn Hall is an English professor from California who is looking for a quick divorce so that's why she goes to Reno for a while, so she lives in the same house as Ann Childs, who is 25 and strikingly resembles Evelyn, who works evenings at a casino in Reno, and draws cartoons for magazines like the New Yorker.
This older-younger literary-type relationship kept making me think of Anne and Flannery from Sylvia Brownrigg's Pages For You, which was a more exciting experience to read, I feel.The novel spends a lot of time thinking of marriage and children in a somewhat irritating way.
Ann has some kind of complex about sleeping with women to rid herself of the mother she never quite knew.
I didn't like that book one bit, it's terribly written with not one likeable character to support the story.Rule does care little for her story and burdens it with unneeded symbolism and popular psychology to make what she has to say sound more important.
In the end the book proved to be mostly a waste of time written by a woman that seemingly needed to vent her frustations and hatred for society and women that are contend to live within its confines.It's a wonder how a book filled with such vile hatred towards the roles women (some willfully) play within society could bring out such a wonderful movie.If 'Desert of the Hearts' truly is Jane Rules best book as the backcover claims, I can savely say that I don't like her.
My high rating just *might* be due, in part, to the fact that the movie, "Desert Hearts", is awesome. But otherwise, the book was really good! Well-written (it's a toss-up with some of these queer fiction books), not overly ridiculous in the emotions category (sometimes these books gush too much and just get silly), and intelligent about figuring oneself out and dealing with things like divorcing a husband of 16 years (Evelyn is totally morphing into a stronger woman who can feel okay with not needing a man, throughout the story). Anyway, a good read!
I enjoyed it. No doubt I would have enjoyed it far more had I been a pre-women's lib, pre-gay rights lesbian in 1964, when the book was published, though. It's remarkably timeless and free-spirited. Jane Rule must have saved numerous lives and minds with the publication of this book.There's a verbose literary writing style that is at times entertaining and at times in the way of the story's progression. I didn't feel an affinity with the characters, but I did care what happened to them.
DESERT OF THE HEART is a heartfelt story that digs beneath the surface of the characters, showing warts and all.
The movie is no great cinematic feat, and the book is no literary masterpiece.
Without the setting -- place, time, buildings, physical traits of characters, etc -- the movie provided, I would have been completely disinterested and the beautiful subtleties of the book would have been lost to me.
For its time, it was groundbreaking, and the lack of explicit sex scenes in the book where the movie was so bold is disappointing, but understandable.
All in all a great read if you've got a few images to let the book unfold into.
I'm reading this book because of the recommendation of my cousin but I have to say, so far I'm finding it just weird.
The author spends lots of time talking about hot it is in Reno (apparently people lived there before A/C), and how the desert is scary to Evelyn, the older academic who is there to get a divorce.
It also talks a lot about how Ann, the younger woman, is not afraid of damnation and wants to just enjoy life.
So, from a historical, analytical point of view (since I don't read lesbian fiction just for brain candy), it must have been not much fun to be a lesbian at the time.
Extremely well-written lesbian romance set in 1960's Reno.
One protagonist is a buttoned-up middle-aged college professor ending a disastrous long-time marriage.
The other is a talented and tormented free spirit who spends her nights working as a change girl in a casino.
Their connection develops delicately over time.I particularly liked the casino scenes, which seemed very authentic, and I liked that all the secondary characters seemed like real people, with quirks and hidden stories of their own.
Nobody seemed flat, cartoonish, or even dismissable.This is a literary novel, with emphasis on perceptions, motivations, and choices rather than overt actions.
It's important to remember while your reading this that it was published in the 60's because to me that is the significant part, that this book is happy and gay and good and doesn't have that god awful tragic ending that all LGBT media tends to have and makes me die a little inside. This was good, the beginning was a little slow but once I was into it I was INTO it. It's a good little book.
In fact, I thought the relationship part of the novel was a bit weird (more on that later).
The novel is also rich in layers of symbolism regarding the characters' attempts at belonging to a community or a sense of place, of the passage of time and lost opportunities, of the tension between conventional morality and trying to understand the bigger picture of good and evil.
There's also a smidgen of the pop Freudian psychology that plagues far too many books written in this era.And, as I said, the relationships are weird.
An instant favourite. I love how the feelings of each of the two main characters are portrayed, you get such a deep emotional connection to the both of them, despite the fact that storywise very little happens. It's a book that takes place on the emotional plane and I love it.
Only 3 stars because it really disturbed me that everybody and their mother think Ann & Evelyn are related & that Evelyn is asked if she is Ann’s mother... that’s some incestuous parallels I don’t like at allThat said, I really enjoyed this story and how Ann and Evelyn fall in love with each other even though they are very different.I also really enjoyed that they both had their very own personalities through different POV.
I just read this 1964 book for the first time.
I had seen the movie ages ago, and it was okay - The character, Cay Rivvers played by Patricia Charbonneau got on my nerves.
Her carefree-attitude seemed a little too glib and prepared while I appreciated the quiet, reserved role of Vivian Bell played by Helen Shaver.
The book, I have mixed feeling about it.
I think there's this oddity about it, the uptightness that counters the matter-of-fact attitude when Vivian discovers her lesbian identity.
Still, it is a classic and should be read.
I gave up with fifty pages left.
It was due back at the library anyway.
Ann and Evelyn are one-dimensional and uninteresting.
I could not possibly care less about them or their relationship, which was also boring and out of the blue.
Also: super creepy how many references there are to them being mother/daughter-like?
Within the first chapter someone tells them how uncannily similar they look, and this theme continued throughout the book.
Gross.(view spoiler)[ WHAT WAS UP with the one friend of Evelyn's from back home?
Whose husband died and then, grief-stricken, she curled up in Evelyn's bed and sucked on her boob???
WHAT  (hide spoiler)]
I was surprised that this book was written in 1964.
It feels more assured and less “furtive” than it should for that date.
The story is strong and the book is at its best when it is detailing the blossoming romance between Evelyn and Ann. Rule is also great at describing places and she gets a real sense of Reno and its environs.
Where I think the book is weak is when Rule allows herself to indulge in poetry and stretches her prose a bit too far.
For all that, I enjoyed it because Ann and Evelyn are such strong characters.
This was the first lesbian fiction I ever read. We watched the movie in an LGBTQ youth support group I was in just out of high school, and then went and read the book. While it isn't exactly my cup of tea, being more like a contemporary romance than anything else, it was well-written with well developed characters. As well as being eye-opening to someone who was struggling with her own lifelong attraction to women as well as men.
I couldn't even finish this book. I appreciate that it is canonical, having had a great premise, but the author has difficulty making her characters interesting and progressing beyond circular blabber. I knew it was going to be different than the movie and I hoped that it would flesh out those loveable peeps in giving them more substance but none of the charm is visible because it is so dryly written.
First off, this cover is awesome. The movie version of this book was not so good... I really like how the main character works in a casino and has to wear a very heavy vest to carry all the change; so heavy that she can scarcely keep her balance. This book has a real southwest spirit (not that I'd know), and I love how sexy the lesbian romance is.
reminded me a bit of the price of salt, except 20384029348029348x more well written. lovely story; i especially enjoyed it because my #2 goal in life is to bag me an older woman, just as ann does.im looking foreward to the movie, as well.
I have just re-read this book again. Another oldie from my bookshelves - the version published by Silver Moon Books. I had forgotten how much of the book dealt with gambling - and also how much was changed in the movie. However it is a good read and very descriptive of the 50s era.
At times, self consciously literary. Overall, very well written. In a post-Mad Men world, very easy to visualize Reno in the early 60's.
Sooooooo much better than the really bad movie.
