https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/826.The_Big_U
At first I thought: "Cool, it's Yossarian Goes to College." And for a while, that's what this book felt like.
Ultimately, the whole thing becomes a giant, but always fun, mess.
From a pure plot standpoint, the various parts actually fit together pretty nicely -- but the way they fit, it feels like Stephenson has built something out of the game "Mousetrap".
This book.This BOOK.Holy shit.It's complete and utter crack of the absolute best kind. It is fantastic and ridiculous and terrifying and beautiful and WHAT THE HELL, THIS BOOK.I love it. I love it so much. Holy god.SUCH CRACK.
Jde o knihu, jejíž vydání nechtěl autor dlouho povolit a proto získala kultovní status.
Tak trochu nezaslouženě, tak jako u nás Kulhánek.
K vykreslení jak samotné university, tak jejích obyvatel a institucí použil autor pořádnou porci černého humoru.
S. Krupp a na universitě působí spolek levičáckých aktivistů skrývající se za zkratkou S.U.P..Do vyprávění se prolíná spousta iracionálních až magických prvků a s tím, jak se postupně prohlubuje krize a chátrání university, iracionalita jejich obyvatel nabývá na intenzitě.
Kniha bych asi doporučil jako takovou jednohubku mezi dvěma knihami s vážnou tematikou.
This is the story of a very serious student trying to navigate the bureaucracy of the ridiculous hyperbole of higher education that is American Mega-university, a sort of parody of every large American university.This book is very entertaining, despite some very disturbing parts.
This book is not nearly as good as Neal Stephenson's subsequent works but it is still entertaining and it really shows his promise.
As his first work it is very reminiscent of Hunter S Thompson's first book The Rum Diary; they are both rough and do not live up to the later works, but they both show the promise of the author.I read this book because I like Neal Stephenson.
The Big U Book ReviewI picked up The Big U while I was organizing my library, and I decided to see if I still liked it ten years [at least] since the last time I had read it.It turns out, I do!
Add to that a culture that has been intellectually static for the last hundred years, a guaranteed fresh supply of naive teenagers, and you will get a system that loops through the same obsessions, over and over and over.In the introductory chapter, Stephenson's narrator says: What you are about to read here is not an aberration: it can happen in your local university too.
The Big U demonstrates that Stephenson has always had fine command of the English language (though this skill would also be further developed down the road), but it lacks any semblance of cohesive narrative.
It reads like a bunch of gags a 24-year old man thought up and slapped onto paper, in no particular order, really, and consistency in tone is also lacking: the reason this book is written in first person is a complete mystery, because half of it isn’t truly first person, and the parts that are don’t serve the story in a way any 3rd person narrative couldn’t’ve.What surprises me is the extraordinary rapidity with which Stephenson’s storytelling skills improved.
It's amazing.Admittedly, I have not read much of Stephenson.
I read bits and pieces of 'Snowcrash' but found it a bit boring.
Therefore I am a novice, untainted by Stephenson's apparent brilliance.This book is a little gem.
Until pretty much the end, when I could stop and think, I did not realize how ludicrously exquisite the descent (or rather, ascent) into madness was.Most of the critiques towards this book seem to have to do with how it doesn't stand up to the standard of the later Stephenson.
I think this beauty should be held as an amazing piece of literature in its own right.
Stephenson's very first book, from 1984, which he has since disowned, is much better and more entertaining than he gives it credit for! A campus satire and a bit of a mess, it hasn't dated that much and is great fun to read. It's also amusing to see early examples of Stephenson's later themes. The nest of computer hackers prefigures Cryptonomicon, the university sealed off from the outside world prefigures Anathem, and the wild action sequences prefigure REAMDE. And at 300 pages, it has the virtue of being quite short for a Stephenson book. Very glad I read it.
This book is one of the funniest things I have ever read. It gets a little outrageous, especially in the second half, but a lot of this is just expanding on real-life ridiculousness which already borders on hyperbole. Anyone who enjoys satire and/or attended Boston University (on which it seems to be based, though BU is never named) should give it a look.
From time to time, the book peddler, who sets up two long church basement tables almost every day just outside my restaurant, offers a free book as I arrive for work.
Thinking he’d uncovered a botanical compendium of some sort he rushed in with the book in hand to see if I’d like to read it not wanting it to go to waste.
I love looking at books this way when I’m not sure what to read next.
A seat in the outdoor park, a tennis match, a good book with two more ready to read and I found the perfect form of relaxation before going to work.
I knew I’d read the book.
Первый роман Стивенсона — чуваку было сколько, 29, когда он вышел?
это конечно, не фонтастега для умных, где литературным мальчикам там приятно опознавать знакомые буквы, это натурально грубо сляпанный балаган, шизокомический эпос из студенческой жизни.
Там все как бы сметано на живую нитку, но в этом и есть определенная прелесть — видно, как из автора фонтаном бьют придумки.С виду роман — эдакий гибрид Мэтта Раффа, Линды Джейвин и Тома Шарпа, а в глубине было лень разбираться, Стивенсона я же для развлечения читаю.
Ну и карнавал имени Пинчона, конечно.
Здесь отлично видно, у кого на самом деле он учился писать.
This is like a futuristic Lord of the Flies inside a big city university and dorm. The book is not good. It took me two months of slogging through it to finish it. I gave it two stars instead of one because I liked the idea (kind of) and the characters, but not the insane execution.
***TW: there is a bunch of sexual violence in this book which I think is dealt with ok (the author seems really critical of rape culture in universities and there's lots of women-taking-revenge kind of stuff), but it's confronting.***I liked this book.
But as a kind of dark parody of university culture it was pretty funny and searingly critical.
Like most of Stephenson's books, came to a rapid stop instead of actually ending in any real thought out way.
As with any Stephenson book, I have many criticisms but it's enjoyable to read something where you can hear the writer enjoying themselves so much.
Otherwise, the book doesn't really have "characters" so much as stereotypical ciphers for denouncing a wide range of unsurprising categorical college "types." Or maybe just social types.
The novel is pretty disappointing as an expose of the state of higher education.So without much characterization or specific social critique, what is Stephenson actually trying to accomplish here?
Spared the burden of having to think, as readers, about conditions whose severity might suggest a need to engage meaningfully with the world, we sit back and chuckle at clever takedowns of characters whose resemblance to anyone real is so vague as to be irrelevant.
It's his first novel, published in 1984 when he was 24 or thereabouts, which means it was most likely *written* when he was 22-23, if not younger.
I'm only eight pages in but I think this book will be a lot of fun for the same reason another author-dissed first novel, 
is a lot of fun: it was written by a young guy feeling his oats.
I'm now 70-80 pages in and I have little to complain about and a LOT that's making me late to (and keeping me hurrying home after) work.10DEC10.
Sure the book has issues, but it was still a hell of a lot of fun to read.
Something Lord of the Flies, as various factions of the student body are cut loose from the nominal administrative control, and the arcology-like "Plex" is divided among violent, deranged groups such as the party-animal Terrorists, the Stalinist Underground Battalion, and the Temple of the Unlimited Godhead.
Many of them are receiving instructions from invisible or mystic sources, such as hearing it in the whirr of fan blades or in the white noise of radio static.And then giant radioactive spiders are found in the sewers and a splinter group of Crotobaltslavonian nationals threaten domestic terrorism.
Strange because I have been reading Neuman's The Idea of the University, a rather long and ponderous essay written in the mid to late 1800's.
It's a chilling shift in the concept of the university, especially in light of the idea of discontinuing tenure to purge schools of bad professors.
Yet tenure was designed to give academics liberty to spak their minds without fear of termination, not necessarily to provide them with the ability to coast after publishing.
I would like to read more books on this topic, fiction or non fiction, so suggestions welcome.
In the future, when an author thinks that his book isn't worth reading, I'm going to take his word for it.
The Big U is too over the top to be an enjoyable, subtle satire of the large university life, although it had that potential in the beginning.
On the other hand, the melodrama and large scale events are too trivial for the novel to be epic.
The overall effect is pretty "meh." The detail and fact finding that Stephenson is known for is all but absent in this book.
This is one of those books that makes me wonder how books are published, as in, what is the criteria? The level of frustration generated from having to read garbage closely condensed into quasi-narrative form exceeds what one person should have to endure.That's not to say Stephenson isn't intelligent in his satire or poignant once or twice in 300 pages, but it's just such a bad bad read. Superfluous beyond regard, boring beyond belief, one would rather sit on transatlantic flights next to unchanged children playing candy crush on tablets.
This book is only slightly better than terrible. I've read many other Neal Stephenson books, and they are all much better than this. The writing is aweful, the story has only hints of interesting plot points, and it will go off on psychedelic interludes every so often, for no apparent reason. Avoid this book. Go read Cryptonomicon instead. Much better!
Stephenson's first published work is a bit uneven - the first half is an amusing satire of big campus life, and the second half pulls out all the stops, with an all-out war erupting, complete with mutant rats, nuclear waste, foreign nationals, bizarre cults, lots and lots of weaponry & violence - and of course, some heroic geeks.
The big (P) U.
CNF - Could not finish, tried for 160 pages, life is too short to read this. Only wish I chucked it sooner.
Perhaps it is to much a product of another time but the jarring shifts of storyline between characters and the frequent jumps in time with no backfilling of the story made this book a chore to read.
They decided to watch TV instead of thinking when they were in high school.
By the time Sarah Jane Johnson, the Student Government President, speaks the lines above I felt like Stephenson improved on the design of what Ballard established with 
My college time was mostly spent drinking or sleeping off a hangover and it is a minor surprise that I actually graduated in four years.
If I'm spending time on a useless job I don't like, and I find there are better things to do with that time, then I ought to resign."That's a statement which I am currently in the process of living out.
I love Neal Stephenson’s work in general.
This book is clearly a very early work.
The pieces don’t really come together to pay off at the end, there are lots of threads left dangling and it was a bit of a hot mess.
The character I liked the most was supposed to be the villain, the university president.
And there are lots of eyes put out in this book.
So it’s worth a read but don’t expect Neal to be at the top of his game.
In some ways it gets a little preposterous at times, but you can see the linkage of story elements that Stephenson handles deftly and becomes he signature as he cultivates this ability beautifully in later books.To it’s credit The Big U is both short and a fun read.
You may just be left questions the story that gets a it little dubious.
Suspend your disbelief and you’ll be just fine, if you’re a Stephenson fan, read this one for fun- at least so you can see how far he’s come.
If you like Neal Stephenson's sense of humor and have read some of his later books, this is a rather fun look into how early that sense of humor manifested itself in his writing.
If you haven't read anything else by Stephenson and are looking for a good book, then you may be disappointed.
Start with "Snowcrash" instead, and work your way forward in time from there.
It contains a quite memorable quote about people who shop in hardware stores and the kinds of clerks that might approach them that I have used to explain what I do in hardware stores many times :-))I enjoyed it.
I am a big Neal Stephenson fan, so I know I had seen this title somewhere in a list of his books, but I had never sought it out.
Ostensibly about a major American university, it certainly starts out with that premise and has fun skewering the buerachracy and ridiculousness that can be found on campus.
It is also sobering in its portrayal of on campus sexual abuse which, it seems, hasn't changed much.
Sure, there are some oddities scattered throughout, but it reads, for the most part, like a novel describing 80's university life in America.
While the prose comes off as smooth and entertaining at the start of the novel, and the story has good momentum and drive, the latter half of this book falls flat because it drags itself down. The prose becomes oversaturated and derivative, and the story nonsensical to the point where I'm wasn't sure exactly what I was reading anymore. I'm a big fan (heh) of Stephenson, but this was a struggle to get through for me. Some neat moments scattered throughout, but overall not something I'll think back on fondly.
