https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/237010.The_Cat_Who_Ate_Danish_Modern
Background  The summer after I graduated from college, I started missing regular reading... during school, I had less personal choice and recreational reads, as all the college textbooks and novels were the priority. I was an English major and rarely had time for adding in my own particular interests. The last course I had taken was an independent study that one of my professors and I had built the curriculum on together: Murder Mysteries. I learned all about the genres and sub-genres, authors
Finding myself without required reading, I selected a few books, including this cozy mystery series, and I read through a huge amount in the first few years.
People either love or dislike the cozy mystery book.
But sometimes, it's exactly what you want to read before bed, when you need to relax, or because it's just fun and charming humor and easy story.Braun started writing in 1960s and published a few of these books, then stopped writing for 25 years before re-igniting the series in the 1980s...
It was one of the very first series that put the cozy sub-genre on the market.
So, the return of Koko and Jim, sees them embroiled in the interior decorating business, and learning never to say drapes. Clues abound as Jim ably assisted by Koko set up a new magazine and surreptitiously investigate a theft and a murder. Koko, is as ever on the ball and Jim’s moustache quivers at red herrings and false leads. All in all another enjoyable cozy cat detective novel.
In this second book, Qwilleran is back, now the official owner of the amazing Siamese cat named Koko, whose owner was murdered.
This time Jim's beat is...interior design.
At one point, Koko bites her in the head, so the relationship is surely doomed.) Another important development is the appearance of Yum Yum. At the very end of the book, she plays an important role, and becomes a permanent fixture in the Qwilleran household.First Published: 1967Body Count: 3 (view spoiler)[David Lyke (murder) Mrs Tait (heart attack) Natalie Noyton (suicide)  (hide spoiler)]Preceded by: The Cat Who Could Read BackwardsNext up: The Cat Who Turned on and Off
(Lilian Jackson Brown was apparently born in 1913, still lives and probably writes, and uses a typewriter for writing...)Qwill gets an assignment to do some interior architecture for Fluxion, which is something he isn't too interested in.
But then some strange things start to happen: a house that was just published in the magazine gets burglarized from some expensive jade collection, and someone is found dead.
Qwill's moustache gets itches and Koko helps him get some clues, and after more articles, meeting a lot of interesting people, they find out what happened.
The cat along with Qwillerans moustache,continue to solve crimes.Found the second book even better than the first.Listened with text to speech app.
I treasure books featuring cats.
Better than that, her hero Jim Qwilleran’s routine with them is presented the most realistically I’ve ever seen.
I applaud Lilian for this accuracy alone.What I discovered about these works next, which languished in my home too long, is supremely well-written mysteries.
Come book two, “The Cat Who Ate Danish Modern”, 1967, I noticed a different field being explored.
It is amusing to observe, in the first four: Jim and the kitties have a different home every time!
Kitties are territorial in some ways but remaining with those they love, is all that matters.
Lilian Jackson Braun's "Cat Who..." series is a perennial favorite of mine.
My Mom and I read them at the same time and thoroughly enjoyed them.
She's gone now, but she was an amazing reader and it was fun to share things we both liked together.
Came home and she was gone.
Great for summer reading.This book he is having the fun of getting his second cat YumYum. a sweet and small Siamese.
Being only the second book of the series, I really have enjoyed reading them again.
I recommend this series if you haven't read them.
The second of the Cat Who books is as satisfying as the first and third, with a real plot, a real mystery, and real heroics. Enjoy the first three books and then ask yourself: what happened with the rest of the series?
'Gracious Abodes', the newspaper Daily Fluxion's new interior design magazine, opens up a new horizon and a new assignment for Jim Quilleran, and a new mystery for fans of Koko the psychic cat.
The dictionary is Koko's Ouija board and his claws are his planchette.
Jim takes the hints from Koko's dictionary suggestions after the murder of a rich woman, whose house was featured in Jim's magazine, and he is soon following up clues.
G. Verning Tait, besides the loss of his wife to an apparent heart attack, also has been robbed of his priceless jade collection.
Surprisingly, Tait doesn't seem too upset about either.
Poor Koko's eating wool, and Qwill's at his wit's end.
A Pyscatricist recommends a female companion, but first the pair have to solve a murder and a theft.
In traditional Lilian Jackson Braun style, all the clues add up and the finger is pointed at the character you least suspect.I enjoy this one because YumYum is first introduced, and she is in need of rescuing, in a way.
He hasn't inherited his millions yet, and Koko isn't living on his high diet.
It's a very simple life, although he is staying in Harry Noyton's apartment and seeing how the other side really live for the first time.Another enjoyable read, I read this one quickly.
There was one passage in this book where Qwilleran sees a couple decorative eggs in a shop and notes how expensive they are.
For some people, that may still be a great deal of money, but you couldn't buy a new copy of this book in paperback for $5 now.
In 1967, the average paperback was about 75 cents.
I wasn't alive when the book was written, but it sure does remind me of just how much things have changed since I was little, and in some ways, it just really amuses me.
It makes books like this that much more endearing.
probably a 3 1/2 star, but a comforting follow-up to the debut book in this series. unpretentious and doesn't try to stretch beyond it's limits, and I found it to be a little better written than I was expecting. some character development sacrificed for the sake of plot but so what, Christie built a legendary career using the same technique.a perfectly acceptable form of the cozy mystery.
Really enjoying this cute new mystery series! That's probably a good thing, seeing as there's about a hundred books in the series! :)
4 StarsI just love this series so much! This was a cute book and I even though I knew whodunit, it was still very enjoyable.
You know, his new job?In lieu of actually solving any mysteries or anyone getting murdered, we're treated to another chapter full of Qwill's adventures as a first-time magazine editor, which means he has to go talk to a bunch of people who are "in the business" so he can figure out how exactly it is he's supposed to do his job.
His right-hand man on this assignment is one Odd Bunsen (yes, that's his actual name) who has six kids, is constantly broke, and in his own words wants the decorating magazine to fail because he feels like it's beneath him.
The mystery "cozy" is a departure from my normal reading fare, but I found The Cat Who...
And, it's a cute story.Simple innocence thrives.
There's a timelessness to this story.
Braun writes with timeless wit as well.
They are quick, one-line knockoffs, but they add to the flavor and humor of the book.This is a good series to delve into if you want to stray from your normal reading genres, or if you are into cozies overall.
A fun read that I am sure I'll return to soon just to see what the cats are up to next.
Qwill is "promoted" to head of a new magazine focusing on interior decorating.
After featuring the 1st mansion, there is a theft; after the 2nd feature of an upscale apartment, there is a murder.
Qwill and Koko investigate.
Also, Koko gets a female playmate named Yum Yum. It was entertaining and sometimes laugh out loud funny....you will enjoy meeting Natalie Noyton, She has all the gagging appeal of a marshmallow sundae."...Koko arrived at the party...at his entrance, the noise swelled to a crescendo and then stopped altogether.
Koko surveyed the scene with regal condescension, like a potentate honoring his subjects with his presence.
This installment finds Jim Qwilleran taking over the interior design beat at the Daily Fluxion.
The paper wants to publish a weekly supplement with feature stories and lots of photos.
The trouble starts right after the release of the first edition.
The house they had featured reports a burglary and the wife is dead.
Jim smells something fishy but presses ahead with the next weekly installment, only to have that one also result in bad publicity for the paper.
He starts digging around, and with the help of Koko, determines what really happened.
Once again Koko, the amazing Siamese cat, helps newspaper reporter James Qwilleran solve a crime...not just one, but two murders.
Koko knows just what clues to send to Qwilleran in order for all to be right once again in his world.
Yum Yum makes her debut in this book...another Siamese taken in by Qwilleran...a friend for Koko in the hopes that he stops some of his destructive habits, such as eating holes in ties.
They are by no means complex.
They are by no means long books.
And they have cats.
Another fun flashback read...
now Qwilleran has a girlfriend (half his age) and both Koko and Yum Yum. Such clever cats - always catching the criminal.
The stories are great and the characters are enjoyable, likable people.
I love the little old-fashioned bits.
When Qwill comes home to see the red light on the phone is lit up - he has to call the operator for a message!
I absolutely love it, though.
I'm just going to keep (re)reading these for a few weeks...
mystery seriesWith this 2nd book in the series, it was much more enjoyable, probably because we can begin to see the dynamic between Qwill and Koko (the cat) now that they're getting to know each other better.
Now that Qwill's art beat has been completed, he has been asked to take over the paper's interior design supplement.
But when the supplement sparks some negative results, like a theft and even murder, Qwill's investigative instincts lead him to find the culprit.
Koko, for his part, sends some strong messages to lead Qwill in the right direction.
Lilian Jackson Braun's "Cat Who..." series is a perennial favorite of mine.
I read my first one at about age ten or eleven, and have been hooked on them since.
It's been a while since I last cracked the cover of any of them, but the Library I work for recently purchased some new copies of many of the titles in the series due to an upsurge in interest among our patrons, so I thought I'd read a few again.
They're all fairly quick reads, nicely paced whodunnits featuring a mustachioed former crime reporter and his genius cat Koko.
Great for summer reading.
The paperback I read said the original publish date was 1967, which I either didn't know or forgot since I first came across this series in the 80's. Fifty years ago is a world away and would explain the genial Qwilleran's casual chauvinism and the references to Orientals, Negroes and girls. Anyway, I enjoyed these books for many years and as I am going through knee replacement rehab, I am finding them a sort of comfort food. The story is cute and when Qwill isn't being too smug or commenting on every woman's appearance, he is a good guy.
Close to the end of the book, I found out that it was a Danish Modern Chair which Koko was 'snacking' on. It was upholstered with Danish wool.I had to keep remembering that this took place in the late '60s while reading it. A lot of artsy people were making their mark through furniture making and interior design. And threw some wild parties!I wanted to read this, and the next, to find out when Qwilleran & Koko welcome Yum Yum to their family.Another great mystery, another crime solved by an intelligent feline!
Somewhat entertaining, but the book began to lose my interest half way through. I was expecting more humor/wit at that point, and noticed that the reading just seemed to present a similar tone throught. The climax for me just wasn't so climatic; it's been under a month and I must say, the ending was not interesting enough to have stuck with me, I can't for the life of me recall it, but I do recall it was nothing quite catching or humorous.After reading other ratings, perhaps these books are better enjoyed when heard on tape.
I love this series. I'm on my second read through - in order this time. This book is one of my favourites. As with all the others it is a simple fun read. Just love the characters - such a colourful bunch. Especially love the authors descriptions of the cats - they come alive in your minds eye. If you're looking for a bit of relaxed reading pick up this series and spend some time with Jim Qwilleran (without the u) and his two siamese cats Koko and Yum Yum.
This is a very early book in this series. The characters had not been developed very much at this point. There was only one cat at the beginning of the book, and Yum Yum was added at the end of the book. I have read many of these books, and so I missed a lot of the things that were added in later books. I'm glad I found this early book, just to see the beginnings of the series.
Spending a little of the summer with old friends. This is the second Cat Who book, and we are introduced to the third member of the Qwilleran family, Yum Yum. The language is beautiful and the pace is leisurely.
The 2nd in the series finds Jim Qwilleran in the midst of another murder mystery.He solves it with help from Koko the magnificent Siamese and in the process acquires a female companion for Koko, named Yum Yum.
It was good. I did enjoy it. But The first one was just such a tough act to follow...
