https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/110672.The_Only_Investment_Guide_You_ll_Ever_Need
i learned few key things from this book:1. wedding rings depreciate in value and you are better off getting a matching IRA.2. you should always buy in bulk.3. never trade commodities.4. investment professionals don't know much more than you and those who do, you don't have access to them.5. in general,i learned to buy things that appreciate (mutual fund, savings accounts, homes) than things that depreciate (clothes, cars), not that i can buy anything at all at this point.this was very helpful book.
I really didn't like this book as an introduction to investing, primarily because it does not talk at all about asset allocation and does not really suggest a complete strategy.
It spends 50 pages on "how to save money", that doesn't seem to belong in an investment book- Plural of anecdotes is not data.
He gives lots of personal anecdotes, but those were just strokes of luck, so relying on them does not seem useful- He suggests that investing only in stocks is the best possible strategy; the other books I mention prove that this is not true (adding bonds increases your total return)
In order for you to learn anything from an investment book you have to be able to pay attention. This simply isn't possible while skimming over a bunch of formulas, figures, and boring advice. At least for me it's not.This book is funny. It teaches you not just how to play but if you should be playing at all. Andrew isn't trying to push a specific strategy instead he's trying to give you the tools to choose one for yourself.
This is a good book if you want to get a brief overview of all of the investment vehicles available to you.
I recommend it for anyone wanting to understand just what is out there for investing.I will give a break down of his book:1- Saving money is imperative.
Just want to reiterate that a dollar saved is as good as 2 dollars earned.2- You need to learn what sort of investor you are (conservative, risky, moderate).
If you don't have a 401(k) option, then you need to look into IRAs. The book helps define which IRA is best, based on your current financial situation.4- Stocks are consistent over the long-term, they usually go up over the long run.
If you leave the money in the account, how much would you have accumulated after five years: more than $102, exactly $102, or less than $102?This test might seem a little simple for readers of The Economist.
A survey by the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland reported that: “Unfortunately, we do not find conclusive evidence that, in general, financial education programmes do lead to greater financial knowledge and ultimately to better financial behaviour.”That quotation, from an article in this week’s Economist, gives me an excuse to mention the best personal finance book I’ve ever read: Andrew Tobias’s The Only Investment Guide You’ll Ever Need.
I took a personal finance class in college that I thought was the best thing ever.
When describing the class' textbook, the teacher said that all personal finance textbooks are terrible, but the one he'd chosen was the least awful.
The stuff I was after--long-term investing and retirement planning--doesn't fully enter the book until the the last third of it, so I had to wait a little bit, but if you're brand new to personal finance this is a great, great resource that illuminated some other issues I hadn't thought about.
Although this book has been updated many times since it was originally published, the 1990s copy I read was still pretty dated - the author kept saying things like "if you have a computer" and "if you're on the Internet".I liked many of the author's points and topics:A penny saved is two pennies earned, when you count time and taxes.Dollar-cost averaging makes smart investing easy.Expensive brokers are rarely worth their price, since over the long run their results rarely beat the stock market's average returns.Mutual funds and stock indexes are good investing choices for a diversified portfolio.Buy in bulk as much as reasonably possible.The stock market has no memory.
It doesn't know or care what the graph you're using looks like.Past Performance Does Not Guarantee Future Results.Live frugally, because "a luxury once sampled becomes a necessity."
Good book, covering a lot of topic and give great advice. However a big piece of it is relevant only if you live in the US.
However, is the first book I've read that discussed more interesting topics like options, futures, LEAPs, P/E ratios, shorting etc The first part of the book was about being frugal.Buying in bulk for things you are going to use anyway is an instant tax free return on your money.
Similarly fine wine, stamps, art can be traded but these are examples of things where being an expert in them actually helps (vs investing in stocks).
You can also short ETFs but the book says it is a bad idea.Market maker is a firm that will buy and sell stocks with a bid/ask spread to make money.
He specifically mentions social security, inheritances, money-market funds, treasury bills, treasury notes, treasury bonds, TIPS, Series I Savings Bonds, muni bonds, coporate bonds, junk bonds, bond funds, unit trusts, convertible bonds, zero-coupon bonds, preferred stocks, series EE savings bonds, education savings accounts, 529's, college loans, 401k's, 403b's, IRA's, SEP's, SIMPLE's, Keogh Plans, annuities, mutual funds (load and no load), real estate, charities, options, individual stocks, tax consequences, and more.
The book is a good starting point and will give you an idea about whether you need to investigate any of these individual subjects in more depth.On a personal aside, governmental regulations and the tax code created this hodge-podge of investment vehicles and considerations.
Wish I had gotten my hands on this book sooner.
For people who want to be financially sound, not for those who wish to get rich quick.
He is pragmatic and logical (invest/save small increments for a long time, buy low), doesn’t prey on greed, and tells you what NOT to do (don’t waste money on a broker).
Most importantly, he talks about basic ways of saving money that people don’t realize or find menial (cancel cable, IRAs instead of diamonds, pay off your credit cards first).(From this book, it’s plain as day that Americans really are bad at math.
2.5 stars Very simplistic and entry-level look at investing.
If you need the most basic of basics, this book will be good for you but if you know enough about finance to know such things as the difference between a traditional and Roth IRA you probably won't find much new information here.
Or, my favorite...the Andy Burger.
It's a hamburger with all the usual fixins...except the burger.
No, sorry, not going to eat lettuce and ketchup bread and pretend it is a hamburger.
Nope.Basically, if you know nothing about investing, read this book...but go ahead and eat an actual hamburger.
It is kind of arrogant to come out with a book with a title like this.
After having read it, though, I think that the arrogance may be warranted.
I REALLY liked this book.
I liked the author's tone, which was very much down to earth and included healthy doses of humor, from time to time.
For some, this book could be life changing.
I am glad that I read it and I am going to recommend this book to a lot of people I know, including my kids.
This book is great as a financial primer. This isn't like the other finance books which tell you how to make a killing in the market or buy investments to make you a millionaire ("first, get a million dollars...").This book is great book to teach simple sound financial principles that we all should already but most of us don't. It is should really be titled "A practical financial guide so you won't have to eat cat food when you are 65 and will have the money to do what you (reasonably) want to do when you want to do it."
Good overview of investing. I like the author's explanation of the book. The only guide you'll ever need but that doesn't mean there aren't other good ones out there or that it's the only one you would ever want to read. He just gives you all the tools you will need. I agree with him for the most part.But I would still recommend to continue to read to get other advice.
It's an ok book, it has the basic about money. Save, spend bellow your means, and invest in cheap fix costs index funds. I am not sure that if you need to read only one book this is it, but definitely, it was a pleasant read and the advice is accurate for the person who does not want to be an investing professional.
Practical introduction into the world of investing.
When I took a sample, I liked it and decided to "invest" 10 bucks and buy the whole book.
And real test came to life when the author started to talk about insurance.
And I can tell you, suggesting an old and well known in the industry adage, "take the term and invest the difference" is either stupid or simply irresponsible.
For a start he "forgot" that if you "invest the difference" somewhere else you will pay about 40 percent taxes on your interest and capital gains.
My opinion about this book is NOT based on his misunderstanding of life insurances only.
I don't agree with him on everything (particularly with his views on debt and individual stock speculation), but I do think this is an accessible and comprehensive primer on personal finance.There are better step-by-step guides if you are completely clueless about personal finance (see Dave Ramsey's Total Money Makeover), but in this book, the author provides bold texted websites for further information about a variety of subjects to give you more information.
I'm sure the references are updated with each edition, so if you're interested in this book, it may be worth getting the latest release.Recommended, and even slightly entertaining for what can be a boring subject matter.
The Only Investment Guide You’ll Ever Need, by Andrew Tobias, is packed with good ideas on how to save and to invest.
I really enjoyed the self-deprecating humor he uses.
He is not afraid to point out that he has screwed up and talks about it in a humorous way.
He does that to show you that everyone makes mistakes but you can do things to watch for and try not to repeat mistakes.
This is a philosophy that I adhere in my beliefs about investing for the future.
I DO want to retire and jumping in and out of investments is not the way to go.
Read, enjoy and learn!!!
I like that he gives a decent description on different ways to invest.
But this gives a nice overview of a relatively safe way to invest for the long run.
But you can skip all the reading and just buy no load ETFs and hold forever, pay into a 401(k), an IRA, and a mutual fund.
I'd say reading the book would give you a better idea of which ETF, which IRA (traditional or ROTH), and which mutual fund to buy, along with getting specifics about other things and, finally, giving you the urgency to actually do this stuff!
While it contained lots of information that I already knew, the last third of the book went into incredible detail for those who want it. And although I already practice the principles he espouses, I would imagine that much of this would be eye opening to mainstream Americans who do not understand the concept of living below their means. (And while the author and I are undoubtedly polar opposites politically, and despite the fact that he is incredibly well-known and busy, he sent me a warm and encouraging personal response shortly after I emailed him kudos for his ideas.)
Yep. This is the financial book that everyone needs to read, especially if you are early in the saving money game.
The main topics are how to spend less, how to save more, and where to put the money you are saving.
The author is knowledgeable and the advice is solid and delivered with more than a little humor.
There is also lots of talk and info about how to play the market, but the bottom line message is essentially: don't do it.
Just put your savings in some stock and bond index funds and watch your pile grow.
Excellent advice.
For the amateur who wants to know the basics about the world of investing, this book really does live up to its brassy title. It gives frank, practical advice and truisms regarding the stock market, such as: the stock market is gambling like anything else, you can't beat professionals at it (with the caveat that professions are wrong as many times as they are right). It definitely answered whether I need to be investing in stocks now (no), but I see myself revisiting this book again and again as my situation changes over time. Easy 5 stars.
Enticing, a little too basic for me, but reinforced a couple of old ideas along the way. The only negative thing here was that Tobias makes mulitple political references in the book. He is a big time liberal and it causes him to lose focus at times, commenting on and blaming Republicans along the way. I am a moderate, but just found this odd for an otherwise well focused investment guide for the average Joe. I bet his editor made the same comments, but he was seemingly unable to keep his MSNBC addiction in check.
While I picked up a couple of things from this book, I can't really recommend it. It's rambling, as others have mentioned, and there are too many instances where he elaborates on some type of investment, only to tell you not to do it. You can get a more concise version of what he's trying to do here by reading "How to Think About Money" by Jonathan Clements or "The Little Book of Common Sense Investing by John C. Bogle.
Briefly goes over a little bit of just about every basic investing topic. I feel like it covers a large breadth of topics, but only scratches the surface of each. It may be over the head of beginner investors, and for me an experienced investor, I had not much to learn. Some may find it beneficial.
The title says it allVery well written book for anyone who wants to become more financially savvy in his or her daily life. I would recommend it to all people, especially to those with non-finance academic or professional backgrounds
I like finance and investment, so I'm always looking for new information. The guide does not go deep into any of the topics. However, I like the examples he uses and the common sense approach to explain concepts.
Loved Tobias's style, laughed throughout the book, and learned a few good things at the same time. This won't be the only guide you need if you progress further as an investor, but if you're getting into investing for the first time you absolutely should read this one.
