https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/122408.Asterix_and_the_Goths
Astérix y Obelix tienen que rescatar a Panoramix de manos de los godos. Episodio con excelentes chistes y buena data histórica.
I rescued this battered former library copy from a used bookstore.
I was stoked that this was a hardcover Asterix graphic novel.
I have never actually beheld one ever.This was classic Asterix, its humor usually built around puns and word play.
The story for this volume was fun, as Asterix and friends set up the Germanic tribes of the Goths so that they wouldn't invade Gaul and Roman for a while.
It's cool that it has a bit of history too.I'll still be looking for more Goscinny and Uderzo Asterix to shore up my collection.
অযাসটেরিকস মানে অাসাধারণ
অ্যাস্টেরিক্স মানে অাসাধারণ
Αυτοί οι Γαλάτες! Αιώνες μετά μας δίνουν χαρά και γέλιο. Κλασικό κόμικς που διαβάζεται διαχρονικά από μικρούς και μεγάλους
Amazing!
Now one of my Asterix favourites for sure.
A very ironic and another clever one of those "how it all began" stories: How Getafix instigates the dissolution of Germania into rival states.
Visigoths from the East take on Ostrogoths from the West.
There's a history lesson later on for the readers explaining how the Gauls have instigated Two Millennia of German infighting.
However comparisons with the extremely sensitive World War II issues are cleverly avoided - Goscinny is a clever storyteller.
Loved the Druid's names and connotations: Botanix (Potion to grow rare flowers), Prefix (Rainmaking potion)Names of Gothic warriors: Metric, Rhetoric, Choleric, Electric, Euphoric, Atmospheric etc.Good?
Astérix et les Goths=Asterix and the Goths (Asterix, #3), René Goscinny عنوان: ماجراهای آستریکس و ابیلیکس کتاب 03 - آستریکس و گت ها؛ نویسنده: رنه گوسینی؛ مترجم: مهدی شاه خلیلی؛ تهران، لک لک، 1381؛ از ماجراهای آستریکس و ابیلیکس کتاب 03؛ در 47 ص؛ مصور رنگی؛ گروه سنی ج د؛ شابک: 9646488528؛ چاپ دیگر: تهران، کلام، 1385؛ شابک: 9646143717؛ موضوع: داستانهای فکاهی مصور از نویسندگان فرانسوی قرن 20
به عنوان یه کمیک بوک قدیمی خیلی دوسش دارم. کلاً ماجرا های آستریکس خیلی جالبه.
مسلية للغاية، الحوار يتميز بخة ظل مميزة وإن كان الرسم عادي.
Laughed a lot!
Tässä Asterixissa ei tuntunut olevan alkuun niin paljon päätöntä mäiskimistä, kuin mitä kahdessa aiemmin uudelleenlukemassani Asterixissa. Kuitenkin sitä mäiskettä tuli tarinan loppupuolella, mutta tällä kertaa se ei tuntunut olevan aivan irrallaan juonesta. Sarjakuva oli mielestäni kekseliäs ja hauska, erityisesti hihittelin hahmojen hauskoille nimille ja erinäköisille tulevaisuuteen viittaaville asioille.
Interesting interaction between the Gauls and the Goths. Am wondering whether this is a metaphor for French-German interactions and wars in the 19th and 20th centuries.
শেষ কয়েকটা পেজ ছিল এপিক। উফ হাঁসি থামাতে পারছি না।
So many beautiful running gags in this one. I'm particularly fond of the ones with the doors and the ones with the "invading" (heh) whoevers. That poor legionnaire is so harassed, but I feel even sorrier for his commanding officer.
Tämän osan valepukusekoilu ja rajamuodollisuudet viihdyttivät taas vallan mainiosti. Ja tulkkauksen hienoudet. Kivoja kevennyksiä nämä.
Asterix goes to Germany16 April 2012 It is really surprising to see how quickly the Asterix albums get quite good, and while this is not as good as The Golden Sickle (namely due to some of the content which I believe drags it down somewhat) this album is still gold. Asterix and the Goths carries on from where The Golden Sickle ends. Asterix and Obelix have just returned from Lutetia with Getafix's sickle, and Getafix now gets ready to travel to the Forest of Carnutes for the Druid Convention. Ho
Asterix and the Goths carries on from where The Golden Sickle ends.
However, at the same time, some Goths cross the frontier into the Roman Empire to kidnap the druid that is elected the greatest druid for the year.
This is a theme that has popped up in a previous book, where a centurion discovers the magic potion, and tries to steal it for himself so that he might overthow Ceaser and rule the Empire.
It was silly because they start a war amongst the Goths by giving a select few a swig of the potion, and when they discovered that they are equally invincible, they raise armies to then slog it out.
After two rather disappointing issues, Asterix and Obelix's third adventure 'Asterix and the Goths' turned out to be a brilliant work.
This issue's storyline is a bit complex.
The druid Getafix wins the title 'Druid of the year' and became the target of the Goths from Germania, the very neighbouring state of the Roman occupied Gaul.
In order to conquer the Gaul and Germania, Goths need that superhuman strength.
It's now totally up to Asterix and Obelix to rescue the druid and get him back to the village.
Another important thing is the naming of the characters.
Zwietracht beim Gegner zu säen sorgt dafür, dass er mit sich selbst beschäftigt bleibt und die Nachbarn in Ruhe lässt.Sehr schön, wie die deutsch-französische Grenzkontrolle auf die Schippe genommen wird und der arme Grenzlegionär unter der Definition des Worts "Invasion" zu leiden hat.
Viele sehr unterhaltsame Scherze, wie die Fraktursprache der Goten, die Übersetzung der gotischen Flucherei (inklusive dem unvermeidlichen Hakenkreuz), das Verkleidungsspiel, das die Römer in Konfusion stürzt und anderes machen den dritten Band erneut zu einem Feuerwerk des Sprach- und Kulturwitzes, wie es nur die Asterix-Reihe so liebenswert schafft, dass man selbst als Ziel des Witzes nicht böse sein kann.Eine Weisheit, die sich viele Chefs ausdrucken und an die Wand hängen könnten, findet sich darüber hinaus in diesem Band: Ils sont tous bêtes et je suis leur chef.
It starts with Getafix getting ready to leave the village for the annual druid conference (which is what he was getting ready for in the previous book Asterix and the Golden Sickle, although both are still stand-alone).
Unfortunately Getafix ends up getting kidnapped by the Goths who need a druid to help them invade the Roman-invaded France.
It is down to Asterix and Obelix to rescue him.A great story with the Goths talking in Gothic text, and lots of humour too what with all the running battles going on and such.
The village feast scene returns at the end too.
Brilliant!
Don't be fooled by the name puns and near constant head bopping by Asterix and Obelix.
There's really interesting historical commentary here.
Getafix executing a plan that keeps the Germanic tribes fighting themselves instead of the Gauls for centuries.
The back-and-forth between neighbors and enemies showing the arbitrary and often porous nature of national boundaries.
The allure and fleeting nature of absolute power.
All this and more come under scrutiny here.
Asterix and Obelix continue their goofy, belligerent, sometimes buffoonish ways.
But they also help make important points about the less-than-constructive ways we interact with one another.
I love it.
Наздраве... с глътка магическа отвара! А вместо фойерверки - всеки римски легионер ще види звезди посред бял ден! Да посрещнем Новата Година с едни любими герои от 50 години пр. Хр., които със сигурност ще продължават да векуват! :) Прочетете ревюто на "Книжни Криле":https://knijnikrile.wordpress.com/201...
Goths kidnap Getafix to force him to make magic potion for them. As expected, this does not go well for them. Typical Asterix adventure, despite the absence of the pirates: many puns, much slapstick violence, and a delightful light satirical tone. Not one of the best albums but still highly amusing (especially the multiple breaking of the prison door).
Storia classica di spionaggio. La caratterizzazione dei goti è un po’ piatta.
Actual rating: 3.25
...
Μυρίζει υποσχόμενη επιτυχία πλέον η μείξη των μυαλών του Αστερίξ και των μπράτσων/αφέλειας του Οβελίξ, κάτι που είδαν νωρίς νωρίς (μην ξεχνάμε ότι είναι μόλις το τρίτο άλμπουμ σε διάστημα 3 ετών και μεταξύ άλλων σειρών για τον Γκοσινύ) οι δημιουργοί και υιοθετούν.
:) Όλα καλά μέχρι εδώ, αλλά στις 48 σελίδες του γέλασα μόνο σε μια φάση, εκεί που γίνεται το κομφούζιο στο δάσος όπου οι Ρωμαίοι κυνηγάνε τους Γαλάτες ντυμένους Γότθους, οι Γαλάτες ντυμένοι Γότθοι κυνηγάνε τους Γότθους και οι Γότθοι σουλατσάρουν χαλαροί ανάμεσα από τον όλο χαμό.
Quando René Goscinny (1926 – 1977) e Albert Uderzo (1927) criaram Asterix, em 1959, havia terminado somente 14 anos antes a II Guerra Mundial, em que a Alemanha invadiu a França. Durante a ocupação, os franceses organizaram a Resistência. Qualquer semelhança não é mera coincidência: Roma invade e conquista a Gália, mas os gauleses da aldeia de Asterix resistem.Esta terceira aventura foi publicada em forma de seriado na revista  Pilote  em 1961 e saiu em álbum em 1963, ou seja, pouco tempo depois
Muitos outros povos e países vieram a ser objeto de brincadeiras e gozações em outras histórias, mas esta, sendo a primeira aventura a testar o formato, carregou nas tintas em relação aos então recentes e também históricos inimigos dos franceses.Sobram referências, além da diversão do humor, há a diversão cultural: é um excelente álbum para apreciadores de História.
'Asterix en de Gothen' is het derde Asterixverhaal en hoewel Goscinny en Uderzo nog niet op volle kracht zijn, is het album alweer een vooruitgang op voorgaande twee verhalen.
Het is het eerste verhaal waarin een hele bevolkingsgroep op de hak wordt genomen, dit keer de Duitsers.
Er zitten sterke vondsten in dit album: de romeinen die denken op zoek te zijn naar de Gothen, maar de groep juist ongehinderd laat passeren, de running gag met de grenssoldaat en de finale, waarin diverse Gothen elkaar de hersens inslaan.
Okay, now we're getting there.Asterix and the Goths is the third book in the series, and the first to bear any resemblance to the series I remember loving as a kid. It could be that the Goths are the first time we have a third party beyond the Gauls and Romans, it could be that the growing pains are starting to be worked out, or this might just be a coincidence and we'll be headed back downhill before long.Regardless, this still wasn't good, let alone great, but the promise of better things is there.
When druid Getafix has been kidnapped by a pack of barbarian Goths, it’s up to our heroes Asterix and Obelix to save him. What follows, might be one of the funniest and most entertaining episodes in the little Gaul’s series, with plenty of gags, magic potions and tribal wars stealing the show. Uderzo’s drawings are top-notch as always, and with Goscinny’s gift of mixing jokes and history turned up to eleven, this should be one of the Asterix-novels you need to have on your comic book shelf.
Seguito diretto di Asterix e il Falcetto d'Oro, il volume presenta il primo sforamento di confine per Asterix e Obelix.
I nostri beneamati Galli devono infatti andare in Germania presso i Goti ( che guarda caso parlano in caratteri gotici) a recuperare il druido rapito.
Ed è una sequela di battute irriverenti e sagaci.Una nota di stupore: ad un tratto tra le "imprecazioni" dei Goti compare quella che sembra chiaramente una svastica, ma ruotata di 45 gradi, con i bracci separati intorno a un punto centrale.
Sembra strano, ma nessuna censura, nemmeno in Germania, l'ha mai cancellata (almeno a detta dei redazionali contenuti nella edizione che sto leggendo).
This is Asterix's adventures in Goth's territories.
Druid Getafix is captured after his contest by the Goths.
Asterix and Obelix are out to search for him.
A hell of a confession happens as they travel evading the romans and the goths.
We find a lot of confusion and interesting new Goths trying to get strong by forcing Getafix to make the magic portion.In the end it is the magic portion which creates the problem in the land of goths.
I think of the first three books, this is the most interesting and philosophical of the books.
In this book, we get to see another bunch of antagonists, the Goths, who are a little more evil than they are idiots, though towards the end, they also turn out to be easily manipulated fools.If you recall, “Asterix and the Golden Sickle” was about getting a new sickle for Druid Getafix so that he could go to the Druid conference in time.
So this volume starts off with the conference where the Goths in hiding to find a resource to deploy against the Romans see Getafix win the conference, and decide to kidnap him.
Die Gote wil die Romeinse Ryk binneval, maar voel hulle benodig 'n geheime wapen.
Ongelukkig kom Asterix en Obelix agter die kap van die byl, en terwyl hulle Kasterolix red, saai hulle chaos en verwarring wat die Gote se planne eeue lank in die wiele ry.Dié lighartige avontuur uit 1963 is nou in sprankelende Afrikaans deur Sonya van Schalkwyk-Barrois verkrygbaar, deel van Protea Boekhuis se wonderlike onderneming om die hele Asterix-reeks in Afrikaans uit te gee.
So kan ek voortgaan, maar lees en geniet dit liewer self.Protea Boekhuis's project to publish all the Asterix adventures in Afrikaans carries on with this rendition of Asterix and the Goths.
kisahnya bermula dari ketika getafix akan berangkat ke hutan carnute untuk mengikuti pertemuan sekaligus perlombaan antar druid (penyihir?) untuk memilih druid of the years.
asterix yang menghawatirkan keselamatan getafix turut mengantarkan bersama obelix, namun hanya sampai ke tepi hutan carnute, berhubung mereka berdua bukan druid jadi tidak diperbolehkan masuk.
jadi mereka berdua menunggu di tepi hutan.kemudian berlangsunglah pertemuan para druid tersebut dan akhirnya getafix berhasil memenangkannya dan menjadi druid of the year.pada saat yang sama suku visigoth ingin menculik druid of the year guna dimanfaatkan kemampuannya untuk melawan roman.
akhirnya mereka menculik getafix.asterix yang lama menunggu hanya mendapatkan petunjuk berupa topi suku visigoth.
Getafix is going to a meeting of druids and Asterix and Obelix are going along to protect him on the way there.
Meanwhile, a group of Goths has a plan to kidnap the druid and use his potion so they can invade and take over Gaul ande Rome.Getafix wins the druid's contest and is captured by the Goths.
Asterix and Obelix go through a series of disguises, including Roman soldiers, to save him.
They find where Getafix is held captive and they launch a plan to sew total chaos and confusion among the Goths and succeed.One of the funniest of the series.
Il y a une blague à la fin de la bande dessinée très amère : c'est l'histoire de comment Asterix a divisé les goths, pour les empêcher d'envahir la Gaule. Donc, Asterix dit que si ils resteront divisés, alors la Gaule ne sera jamais conquise par les goths. Mais, quand l'Allemande, après beaucoup de siècles, s'est unifiée, beaucoup des guerres sont éclaté entre les gaules (françaises) et les goths (allemandes). On est commencé avec la chute de Napoléon III et on est fini avec la Seconde Guerre Mondiale.
Village druid Getafix is off to the annual druid convention.
At the convention, Getafix wins the Druid of the Year award for his strength potion (which is what makes Asterix and Obelix such great fighters).
The only problem is the band of Visigoths who have come to capture the Druid of the Year and bring him back to Germania, where they can get him to help them fight the Romans.
Asterix and Obelix are soon chasing after them, fighting Romans along the way.
Will they get their druid back home to their Gaulish village?
Of course they will, this is an Asterix comic.
Continuing on from the Golden Sickle. Enjoyable as always. I don't remember ever reading this one when I was young.The only negative was that the denouement felt a bit anti-climactic.Of interest, Asterix seems to keep his magic powers for a very long period of time after drinking the potion. Way longer than I remember in the other books.
I found funny because when kidnapped getafix and when they opens the sack he in. He swears and at the bottom right it say's that they can't translate it because it's so terrible.It's also funny because when Asterix,obelix and getafix are throne in the dungines they always braking the door. It also has some tricky words in it.
I can't forget these wacky names !! HILARIOUS !!! ROTFL :) :)
No suelo leer comics, pero mi hermano colecciona estos de Ásterix y Óbelix y debo decir que los adoro. No creo que haya reseña en el blog,salvo que haga un especial o algo así. Lo recomiendo para cualquier persona, son muy divertidos y geniales para pasar el rato.
En temps normal, je ne lis pas beaucoup de BDs mais j'aimerais m'y mettre. J'ai pioché dans celles de mon frère, il les lisait quand il était petit et je ne suis pas déçue d'avoir choisi Astérix. C'est drôle, ça va vite à lire, et j'ai apprécié.
Find this book at Hillingdon Libraries
Den hitintills bästa Asterix. Intelligent, vacker, fylld av små historiska händelser, väldigt karaktärsfullt och fördomsfullt målat om olika kulturella egenheter och framför allt otroligt rolig.Rekommenderas!
Fun read about how the Goths capture Getafix as they want to use the magic potion to take over the known world, including the Gauls. However, Asterix and Obelix turn up and help save the day.. by starting an endless war that keeps the Goths distracted.
This was the first Asterix book I read when I was very young, and possibly what got me so interested in comic books. I read it over and over, yet never realised that the Goths were German. Weird!
Re-lecture de cette BD. Je ne me souvenais pas de l'histoire que j'ai pris beaucoup de plaisir à re-découvrir.Diviser pour mieux régner, telle est la devise de cet épisode d'Astérix.
