https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/50015.Death_Is_a_Lonely_Business
Like an actor who is cast in an odd role, Bradbury remains the sentimental, kooky writer, and that is a part of this novel’s charm.
Set in an aging and decrepit Venice California in 1949, the unnamed protagonist is an overweight, clumsy, near sighted writer who bears a great resemblance to Ray. All the more fun is the frequent allusions to stories he has published that are unmistakably actual Bradbury creations.
Like many of this works, Bradbury fills this with a funhouse cornucopia of colorful characters.
Like so many of Bradbury’s works, most of the enjoyment in reading is simply his mastery of language and medium.
I've read this book twice.
The main character is a struggling writer (Bradbury himself) who is trying keep his art flowing but is lonely.
But then a murder mystery unfolds and the writer must solve it.
As the novel moves forward you find that Bradbury has many friends, some existing, some new, the relationships brought about through the events in the novel.
He also loves each one's uniqueness.
The weirder they are the more they are loved because they are themselves.
They mystery is just the method for us to learn about Bradbury's heart.
Writerly, well-written, and about writing. Also about murder, loneliness, social change, urban decay, old movies, and poetry.
For once.)Dandelion Wine and Something Wicked This Way Comes are the two Most-Important-Bradbury-Books-to-Me. I read them at the right age, they made an impression, they will always be near and dear to me.
That's what I love about Bradbury - they're coming-of-age stories and Bradbury writes children better than most adult writers can, and then he throws in some crazy unimaginable stuff and the whole story goes supernova.Death Is a Lonely Business isn't quite like that.
The fact that I don't believe (but could be wrong) he did any other books like this indicates maybe he felt the same way.
Влюбен съм в Бредбъри още от дете.
Чел съм практически всичко негово и смятам, че е един от най-поетичните писатели.Винаги е пишел различно и нестандартно от останалите.Няма да забравя и потреса си от първия сблъсък с нефантастичните му романи.
Бях седми клас, когато започнах да чета "Вино от глухарчета" и докъм стотната страница чаках кога ще започне фантастиката.
Сега това ми е настолна книга."Смъртта е занимание самотно" четох за първи път още студент.
Препрочитал съм я много пъти, сегашния прочит ме хвана в един по-специален момент и мисля, че започнах да разбирам какво пише в книгата (освен за тежкия и несигурен живот на писателите).Прочетете тази книга, стилът на Бредбъри е неповторим.
Місце дії - 100% нуарівське, атмосфера - недотягує, персонажі - радше пародія на нуарівських персонажів, а от мотив злочинця - 100% Бредбері (як в 451° за Фаренгейтом, а саме, що робить людей людьми, я б сказав, хоча важко передати одним реченням чи словом дух і настрій творів Бредбері).Щодо пародій, то тут є детектив, який фанат класичної літератури (вільно цитує Шекспіра та Достоєвського), пише роман.
Є тут і фем-фаталь, але ій за 60 років, і вона 1,5 м зросту, а також повненька.
А потім Бредбері додає деталей її вигляду - і фем-фаталь зникає.
A dark mystery/detective story (kind of) in typical Bradbury style. Marvelous writing and good, memorable characters.What I learned: Not to read this book while home alone on a stormy night with family away in the LA area of California. At least I wasn't listening to Tosca.
Ух, як моторошно! Хочете чогось справді нуарного - похмурого, туманного, зі скреготом та свистом вітру у дощову ніч, коли хтось стоїть вночі під вашими дверима і чекає..? Тоді сміливо беріться за цей роман. Тут усе просякнуте занепадом (як самого містечка, так і його жителів), самотністю, поразкою і забуттям...Непроглядна темрява, мряка і хлюпіт хвиль.Обов*язково прочитаю наступні книги цієї серії.Мені лише не сподобалось оформлення укр.видання від вид. Богдан- з яскрово-рожевим гламурним написом та корінцем... і це до нуарного детективу???
A great mystery from the master wordsmith. A noir thriller that plays out like a classic black and white movie while being a bit surreal at times and uniquely clever. A very Goodread.
While not Bradbury's all time best, this is a nice change of pace.
Old women scared to death, drunks turned over in bathtubs, blind men tripped on staircases...
and an old man drowned in a lion's cage.The climax didn't quite satisfy, but it's a good read.
There are a lot of references to Bradbury's science fiction stories.
As a Bradbury fan, those moments of recognition added a fun element to the book.For more on comics, humanity, morality and the world check out The Stupid Philosopher, aka a place where I put my words.
Every Bradbury novel out there is worth your time.
Es ist vorbei!!! Endlich. Aus meiner Sicht nur etwas für ganz große Bradbury Fans.
Here we have a tale of mystery that, at least at first glance, might have appeared in the detective pulps of the Thirties, but in a style of writing seasoned by decades of honing storytelling skills, a fully developed poetic style, and an unabashed love of the English language.The narrator is a stand-in for the young Ray Bradbury, furiously writing his tales of mystery, mayhem and fantasy, not yet “discovered” by the readers of the time, and dwelling amidst the creeping corruption of Venice (California) with characters as eccentric as any he ever inserted into his tales of dark dwarves, lurking shadows and shy Martians.
Supposedly, the main character is based on some of Bradbury's own experiences while he was rising through the ranks of pulp fiction writers in the 1940's.Update: I'm about 60 pages from the end, and I must admit, I'm having trouble getting through this book.
A little too colorful to be believable.I was hoping that this would have more the character of hard-boiled fiction (a la Hammett or Chandler).
Bradbury violates the rules of hard-boiled fiction by reveling, if not blubbering, in emotional expression.
Nothing much happens, but we sure meet a lot of different characters who effusively express themselves about a whole lot of nothing.Overall, a disappointing read.
Il "caso" di per sé è semplice; ciò che afferra lo spettatore - e i personaggi - è l'atmosfera lugubre e carica di mistero della spiaggia californiana in disfacimento, affacciata su un oceano che sembra sempre in procinto di rigurgitare qualcosa di magnifico e terribile.Ray Bradbury plasma le parole creando una prosa estremamente poetica, donando ai suoi protagonisti lo spazio per crescere, svilupparsi, e conquistare il lettore, anche mentre i moli di legno e le vite degli abitanti di Venice vengono demolite e affondate.
Un romanzo di atmosfera, che scorre fluido come una corrente e appassiona come il cinema d'antan.
I had to reread Fahrenheit 451 to help my granddaughter write a paper, and I enjoyed it again; so I decided to try this newer Bradbury.
Knowing that science fiction, horror, and supernatural are my very least favorite literature genres, I still gave it a shot.
I gave up on it after about 4 chapters.
There seemed to be no plotline - just a lot of well-written scary language.
Bradbury was right the opposite, but somehow the same,in this book.
The language was enthralling, but one had to work too hard to find an actual story hidden inside the exaggerated prose.
Я вперше читав щось настільки незвичне і неподібне до раніше читаного. Жеманіфік, короче. Манера - найс, персонажі - даблнайс, розв‘язка - прозріння.
Ray Bradbury's delicious, sentimental prose is expended well here in the service of a noirish mystery. Man can he write.
Страхотна!!!
Set in 1949, this novel evokes the atmosphere of the time as well as giving a tribute to hard-boiled detective novels.
Death is visiting the citizens of Venice, California and the protagonist finds himself in game of hide and seek that seems to be leaving all his friends and acquaintances at the mercy of the stalking shadow.
Shadows that follow but disappear like the morning mist?The plot line is a bit shaky...disappearing in the mist at times like the shadowy character of Death's friend, but his descriptions are solid and the clues are there if the reader is quick enough to spot them.
Death Is a Lonely BusinessRay Bradbury278 pages, read it in paperback.Ooh la la, a Noir set in 1949 Venice, California.
I don't remember the name of the place but there are always books piled on the floor in boxes and if I am lucky I get the owner.
I was excited to find out that Bradbury is still alive and kicking at the age of 91.The story itself follows a young writer whose name is never given as he attempts to find a killer in Venice.
The more Bradbury I read, the more I love him.
Bradbury always has a very strong female character in his stories and the girls stand on their own as full fledged people.
Set in Venice in 1949 as the Pier is being destroyed, Bradbury tells the story of a dying era through a straightforward sort of whodunit intrigue.
Tarot reading shrinks, retired Silver Screen Goddesses who pose as their own chauffeur and maids, queer actors whose seventy-year-old body won't age, 380 pound Opera Divas who live off mayonnaise, barbers who play the piano as badly as they cut hair, and a detective who doesn't trust anything but his typewriter...And of course, always, Death.
"Die kleine Stadt Venice, California, hatte zu jener Zeit vieles, was sie zum idealen Ort für Leute machte, die gern traurig sind."Welch ein wunderbarer erster Satz!"Death is a Lonely Business" ("Der Tod ist ein einsames Geschäft") ist ein Kriminalroman voll Nostalgie. Eine Geschichte von Einsamkeit und Verzweiflung. Für Leser, die gern traurig sind.Das Schäbige und der Verfall sind in sprachliche Virtuosität und Eleganz gekleidet.Eine Reminiszenz an die Filme der Schwarzen Serie des Hollywoods der vierziger und fünfziger Jahre.Eine brilliante, melancholische Hommage an den Roman Noir.
Ray Bradbury is a skilled author. One of his best talents is stringing an engaging story, which twists just when you think you're about to be satisfied with a great conclusion into an even better one! This story lives up to that trend. Like much of Ray Bradbury's work it is marked by weirdness and wonder; a little more weird and it's pure fantasy, a little less and it's autobiography. Bradbury's mix makes for an fast-paced and thoroughly enjoyable read!
Livro policial verdadeiramente negro, muitíssimo bem escrito que nos prende do inicio ao fim. Passado na Califórnia dos anos 40, é riquíssimo nas imagens que constrói na nossa mente. E tem um titulo que me conquistou de imediato e levou à leitura deste livro: morrer é mesmo um acto solitário.
Bettie's Books
Bradbury is a science fiction author, and an exceptional one at that.
Later in life though, he dabbled in mystery fiction, his homage the noir authors he admired.
(I was going to give this three stars -- see below -- but as I wrote the above, I convinced myself to add a fourth.)The one drawback here, for me, is Bradbury’s effort at the noir style.
I get that he admires it.
(Take my word for it.) I wish Bradbury had considered noir in the same spirit.

Типичен Бредбъри, може би една доза по-сюрреалистично отвлечен, отколкото съм свикнала. Книгата ми хареса без да ме очарова както направи "Вино от глухарчета" или "451 градуса по Фаренхайт". Накрая остана само един въпрос, какво по дяволите се случи с Пег?
Ray Bradbury is a writer I'll read just for the prose style, but this was a weird one: a retro murder mystery that seems to star a younger version of the author. It was fun spotting the references to Bradbury's short stories, but I didn't go a bundle on the mystery itself.
