https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/368524.All_the_Conspirators
On the one hand, I get what my painting teacher was getting at that one time spring term my junior year when he told me whatever I was making was kind of contrived, to which I responded I liked contrived.
I thought myself already very daring but also knew I was kind of afraid of what I might discover should I start to loose my grip on what I thought my 'style.' It's apparent here too, but lucky Chris and I get to go to Berlin to begin that process.
On the other hand, when it has its moments, it really has its moments, and there are some bits dead clever and proper indicative of later delights.
دو و نیم ستاره
As for Morgan Forster, Joan, Philip's sister, is, like Lucy Honeychurch, torn between marrying the poor, possibly bi-sexual Allen, and the upright, conservative, rich Victor.
But Joan, unlike Lucy Honeychurch, does not go against her mother's wishes.
Orphaned Victor loves Joan, but spends all his time with her mother.
At least the book proves that the generation gap didn't start in the '60s, as Philip and Joan complain about the awfulness of old people.Isherwood does use some lovely language: “The thick drawn curtains dulled the noise of the rain”.
Having made it my goal to read Isherwood’s entire oeuvre, I begin with his first novel, published when he is twenty-four in 1928, although he later reveals he’d been working on it since he was twenty-one.
There is no central narrator or storyteller, the author asking readers to put all the elements together themselves.Isherwood, it seems, is attempting to forge a new kind of novel, or if not, at least improve upon those that have recently come before him.
It isn’t that Isherwood shouldn’t have attempted such a novel; it is that perhaps he could have used the steady hand of a knowledgeable editor, someone to guide and advise him on how to achieve his goals.
Isherwood’s first novel published in 1928 and written when he was 21. As a novel it’s certainly not without it’s problems. There are some rather half-hearted experiments with style and it is pretentious to a fault. Yet, there is some very endearing quality about the book. Perhaps because in subject and style it is so much of its time and also because however much Isherwood subsequently developed as a writer, there is a lot of talent in evidence. Certainly a flawed piece of work, but one which I really enjoyed.
I hate Philip, he was such a whiny character. During the whole first half I just kept hoping he would die... The synopsis made it seems like the mother was the problem, but actually no, it was just a random guy who couldn't get his act together, poor little boy smoking, eating, brooding in his room to annoy his mom.I'm sad because I like the tone of Isherwood usually.
Very much a first novel. Sometimes utterly confusing, sometimes very lucid and readable. Worth reading as part of Isherwood's canon because you can see the novelist he's going to become, but it's not a great book in it's own right.
A family struggle to live with each other.Some of writing was good and the changing attitudes of the family members to each other was well conveyed but overall if felt dated / slow.
DNF
His other books are better than this first effort, but it's still insufferably boring. I have no interest in experimental narrative styles, and the characters are all dull and poorly drawn. Even though it's only 200 pages, I gave up at 150; the actual story isn't compelling enough.Isherwood is, overall, a good, clean writer, so as a technician he's probably a good role-model for aspiring scribes (his spare prose reminds me of Coetzee). But I prefer conventional plots with high stakes; lucid prose is meaningless without a strong story.
Isherwood has been a hit and miss author for me. All the Conspirators (1928) was his first novel and a big miss. The novel follows these siblings who basically just do everything in their power to reject their mother. This novel was written in the 1920s for a 1920s audience. It is just so utterly boring. Nothing happens. It is plotless. It’s your typical inter-generational class war novel. All the Conspirators reads like all the worst chapters of Forster filled with characters that Wodehouse would have a field day with.
Back in the days when modernism was fashionable... writers thought it was okay to tell you half a story and leave it to you to fill in the gaps yourself. Well, I've never really had much time for deliberate obfuscation... And the gaps in this story mostly need filling in with a big dose of Sigmund Freud... I've never had any time at all for psychoanalysis, so, regettably, I have to say that Christopher Isherwood's first published novel wasn't quite my cup of tea.
As a fan of Isherwood, I gave his first novel a shot, but the experimental narration style was a bit hard to follow. I understood the overall plot in the end, but it just wasn't very captivating.
Cast o' characters:http://pin.it/Z8v8F5j
Partly charming but not really very good. Sorry.
Ambiguous to the last, I never fully grasped the subtexts but Isherwood's prose and dialogue were above average and the characters sympathetic.
A definite coming of age piece. Not Isherwoods best but as a first novel, not bad.
