https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25105.Brief_Lives
A mad journey about change. Creative Team:Writer: Neil GaimanIllustrators: Jill Thompson & Vince LockeCovers: Dave McKeanLetterer: Todd Klein COINS, BUTTERFLIES, PONdS, QUESTS & FAMILIES In the review about the sixth volume, Fables & Reflections, I recommended that it was better to read the introduction after reading the TPB, and surprising enough in this seventh volume, Brief Lives, they just decided to putt he introduction at the end of the TPB. Curiouser and curiouser. Oh, and re
Destruction disappeared for 300 years and everybody else was okay with that (sure, he announced that he was gonna dissapear, but hey, 300 years and nobody having to try to know if he’s okay?) and Dream was trapped against his will for 72 years and none member of his family tried to look after him.So, quests for a family member is something hard to sale between the Endless, maybe due his recent imprisonment and lefting him to his chance, provoked to Dream to be the one helping Delirium, but it’s not like he was that excited about the idea.You will learn that there aren’t one-sided coins.And the Endless are like the oldest coins ever.Life is about change.
Their quest takes them from a travel office in Dublin, Ireland to a strip club called Suffragette City, from the Palace of Bast, Queen and Goddess of Cats to the Temple of Orpheus (where the head of the bard still lives), and finally toward the island retreat of the abdicated Lord of Destruction himself.
Could it be that there is someone (or something) that is trying to keep them from seeing their brother again?I liked a lot of things about this story—Pharamond, god turned travel agent, and Isis’ dance at Suffragette City are two which come immediately to mind—but the most delightful thing about Brief Lives was the character of Delirium (formerly known “as Delight”.
So how did  Destruction  manage to escape?Gaiman's poetry flies on broken wings in and out of the story: Unripe mind apples tumble screaming through the sky, and the stars gasp in brief flashes of pain and time.
Gaiman sees hope in the everlasting changing nature of existence where even the Endless are revealed as dialectic principles, two sided coins:Death defines Life, Dream defines Reality ( One cannot begin a new dream without abandoning the last ), Despair defines Hope, Destiny defines Freedom, Desire defines Hatred, Delirium was once Delight, and Destruction - he is now concerned with Creation - he paints, he sculpts, he writes poetry, he cooks.
What is really a road trip is really a helluvalot more than just a roadtrip when Dream and Delirium search for their long lost brother of change, Destruction.
Nothing is quite as funny and quirky in these Graphic Novels like Delirium, and nobody is quite as quietly disturbing, deep down.
How does one need to so completely retreat from Delight by willingly throwing oneself into deepest madness?
*shiver*I really loved this volume.
Things change.The other most memorable and thought-provoking stories are those of Ishtar and Bast and Orpheus, but honestly, I can't bring myself to pick which I liked the most.
Does Dream and his sister Delirium hitting the road and wandering the earth in search of truth (and fun) and their brother Destruction make for the weirdest road trip ever? Well, no—that would, in fact, be the Gibson family trek to Disneyworld in 1987 (don’t ask). But, it’s certainly up there, and certainly good (if thought-provoking) fun. This Gaiman kid is going places, I tell ya.Onto Vol. 8…
Dream and Delirium (my favorite) are the central characters that readers are following over the course of the major arc, and theirs has a more disapproving-father and awkward-daughter aspect than simple sibling dynamic.
This created an immediate rift between him and Delirium, but it also helped both of them to exert more effort in trying to understand each other's point of view.The appearances of Destruction in Despair, Delirium and Dream's collective reminiscence paint the kind of Endless creature he was; this was a personification not just of chaos but of creation.
Things still change.
How could you leave?-How or why?-It makes no difference.-Because there's no such thing as a one-sided coin.
But from here, I can pretend...I can pretend that things last.
I can pretend that lives last longer than moments.
But I can pretend.And she looked at me.
You know her look.
We just tell ourselves we don't to make it all bearable.-Um. What’s the name of the word for things not being the same always.
You know.
There must be a word for it… the thing that lets you know time is happening.
Is there a word?- Change.- …I was afraid of that.
The great thing about this volume is that it is all about The Endless, aka the Sandman's family.
Death, Desire, Despair, Destruction, Delirium...
The main story is that Delirium asks Dream to help her find their brother, Destruction, who has disappeared for 300 years.
Ishtar, who is a stripper in the modern age and literally has a meltdown, and dances into such a frenzy that she sort of supernovas or something?The coolest part to me is after they find Destruction and he says (in so many words), "Nope, I ain't coming back.
I got better things to do, off in the universe.
Badass.I felt like this could have been better.
Also, Morpheus/Dream really can be a dick sometimes.
Coming off the least interesting volume in the series (The Sandman Vol. 6 Fables and Reflections), Brief Lives was a welcome high point.
Dream is the only sibling who agrees to accompany her; he doesn't want to find Destruction, but he does want to take his mind off a love affair that just ended.Delerium was what made Brief Lives.
I loved the conversations that she and Dream and Destruction had.
I thought The Sandman Vol. 5 A Game of You was deep, thought-provoking, charming storytelling, but Brief Lives just leaves it in the dust.
In fact, as we learn from Death in this volume, each of us is only allotted a single lifetime, and whether we consider it brief or long in human terms, it is less than the blink of an eye for the Endless, who fulfill their duties according to higher rules than we can fathom, in a strange relationship with humans in which neither is ruled or ruler, master or slave, and yet they are inextricably linked.In Brief Lives, the youngest and most unstable of the Endless, Delirium (who was once Delight) decides that she must seek after her long-lost brother Destruction, who left his duties for whereabouts unknown 300 years ago.
This idea that even the Endless can change is perfectly illustrated by Destruction, who abandoned his duties three centuries previous, and now leads a quite and secluded existence painting, cooking, sculpting, and various other forms of creation.

This was so good! Delirium was quite the character.
Έτσι κάπως εξέλαβα τα λόγια ένος από τους Αθανάτους, ο οποίος αποσύρθηκε γιατί ο ολοένα εξελισσόμενος κόσμος δεν έχει ανάγκη πια τα σύμβολα και τα υπαρξιακά μοτίβα που ο ίδιος και τα αδέρφια του εκπροσωπούν.
Η αφήγηση, η εικαστική ποιότητα και το όραμα του Γκέιμαν, αλλά και φυσικά οι συνοδοιπόροι καλλιτέχνες σε αυτό το γιγάντιο λογοτεχνικό έργο - όλα τόμο με τον τόμο, κρατούν μια αδιαπραγμάτευτη ποιότητα.
Αν αναλογιστεί κανείς πως αυτό το κόμικς πήρε ζωή υπό την σκέπη της DC comics, τότε μιλάμε για θρίαμβο.
Though this volume starts and ends with a "modern" take on the Orpheus myth, it mostly deals with the Endless siblings.
The rendering of Delirium is sometimes sad but mostly hilarious, and though 'change' has not been kind to her (she was once Delight), she's the impetus for a journey to find Destruction, the most "human" of the siblings.
I think I enjoyed the side-stories (the consequences of their trip) more than the interaction of the siblings themselves, though those latter scenes are the most profound.
I also learned of a mythological character, new to me: Étaín.
I really should brush up on my Irish mythology one of these days.
Of the Endless, brother Destruction is missing. Delirium has lost it (not that she ever had it) and wants to find him. Despair and Desire turn her down, but Dream agrees to go on the quest. It ends up costing him more than he expects. One of my favorite volumes.
For the past six volumes of the “Sandman” series, we have been reading about mainly Dream’s (Morpheus’) side of the story, but now in the seventh volume, “Brief Lives,” we are finally reading about Dream’s other siblings, mainly the youngest sibling of the Endless, Delirium, and how she tries to convince Dream to help her find their missing brother, Destruction.
This volume “Brief Lives,” is full of drama, surreal fantasy moments and heartbreaking moments that will set any “Sandman” fans ablaze with excitement!In the seventh volume, “Brief Lives,” the youngest sibling of the Endless who is known as Delirium decides to drag Dream into a journey in finding their missing brother, Destruction who disappeared from the Endless many years ago.
I hope I don't come across sounding like a fanboy, but the thesis of my review is this: WHY AREN'T MORE PEOPLE READING THIS SERIES?
It was a very thought-provoking essay and I'd encourage you to read it.But in this review, I want to commend Gaiman for encouraging "tangential learning." Tangential learning when a book or video game or artwork inspires its readers/viewers to self-educate themselves about other important topics.
I love art that challenges your thinking, that expands your mind, that whets your appetite for knowledge.The only (mild) criticism that I have about this series is that I'm not sure how I feel about the way the narrative is constructing a theme of loss or nostalgia for the changes brought about by the enlightenment and the age of science/reason.

I loved the interaction between Delirium and Dream - Dream's terseness and Delerium's ramblings which always seem to have an odd kind of sense to them contrast so nicely.
Their two very different personalities also serve to nicely point out the Really Big Dysfunctionality of their family.And Ishtar!
And Destruction, who tries so hard to create painting and sculptures and even just a meal, but who can never quite succeed because of who he is.I also get the feeling that this is setting up for something really big that's about to happen (i.e the thing which is introduced right at the end of 'World's End') but since I haven't reached the later volumes yet, I really can't puzzle out the clues we've been given.
But I'm still a big ball of squee.
This is about the Endless family and a quest where Dream and Delirium seek Destruction, their brother, and Dream also seeks the lover who has rejected him. The conclusion of the Orpheus arc happens in this issue and is pretty powerful. I guess the central theme here is the inevitability of change. Death plays a pretty central role in this one, yay. One interlude takes place in a strip club called Suffragette City. Pretty terrific stuff, I thought.
Brillante !!!
“I like airplanes. I like anywhere that isn't a proper place. I like in betweens.”  OKAY SO. Delirium may be my new favorite, though I do really love Death.Both of them are just so amazing. All of the Endless together are just hilarious and adorable.I want more of their family reunions.
The characters and the places this place goes is consistent to the world and it being character driven is the best thing about it.Story: The story of the lost sibling has been teased awhile so it was great for this tale to be told.
However, the biggest thing about this tale is the time we actually spend with Dream and Delusion.
It's a journey book where we get a lot of time to soak into the being that is Dream and we see the world as he see's it.
The end of the journey is beautiful and the dialog is fantastic.Characters: Dream gets a huge dose of development and that's good, Delusions too.
Este tomo me ha gustado mucho.
Es genial ir conociendo un poco de cada uno de ellos, e ir viendo sus peculiaridades.
En especial, me ha encantado la relación de Sueño y Delirio a lo largo de este tomo y el viaje de ambos.
En general es que antes Delirio me parecía un buen personaje, pero me costaba pillarle el punto.
Después de este tomo me ha encantado.
Pero me ha gustado mucho ver la forma de tomarse las cosas de Sueño al principio y al final.
Un tomo genial de principio a fin, sin que le sobre nada.
I plan to write a wordy, obnoxiously-eloquent review on this one day. Eventually.For the time being, I'll say two things : A) That cover is boss. The one with the skeleton, if you're looking at a different edition.And B) If you've read the series this far and liked it, you will probably love this one. If you've read the series this far and hated it, why are you on the seventh book, anyway?
Delirium was annoying as heck but the story overall was ok.
By far my favorite of the issues thus far.
I enjoy all of them that involve the Endless mythos, focusing on their stories; this is just the first that really involves all of them individually and interacting with one another, so we get a real grasp on all of their personalities and relationships with one another.This story primarily revolves around the youngest sister, Delirium (formerly known as Delight), and Dream who, against his better judgment, allows Del to convince him to join her on a quest to find their brother, Destruction, who left 300 years prior.
I needs it.Delirium is my fucking favorite.
Gaiman has some incredible imagination toWrite this. That's the best thing about Sandman, however, I found this chapter difficult to pick up. It's been a bit of a slog but it seems to get moving towards the end.
He doesn’t want to hear it, but Destiny says he’s telling Dream what he needs to know, not what he wishes to hear.
(He does the same thing when he speaks to Orpheus in the final chapter.) Destruction still thinks they shouldn’t have come looking for him, but he is surprised that Dream broke his silence toward Orpheus, and says it may mean that something constructive has come out of the search after all.
https://poseidons99.wordpress.com/201...
