https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/62802.The_Temple_of_Dawn
Honda’s royal Siamese acquaintances—from back in his and Miyoaki’s youth in Volume 1, Spring Snow, see my review—are not in the country, but a little princess of some six years of age is.
Now suddenly, under the influence of the young princess from Thailand, Ying Chan, 17, Honda goes sex wild.
A conspiracy is then entered into by Honda, his neighbor Keiko, and her twenty year old nephew, Katsumi, which seeks the despoliation of Ying Chan.
Honda, coming sexually alive for the first time in his 57 years, reminds me of Brookner’s characters with this exception.
Passages in the book were lovely, but the book was bogged down by two main problems - one, the book took long pauses to narrate the principles of Zen Buddhism and reincarnation; and two, the there didn't seem to be a clear story arc.
My writing teacher Lester Goran once said that internal narration and flashbacks were story-killers because they took time away from scenes.
We don't need to go on the character's book-reading journey with him.
As far as the story is concerned, I never felt like there was a coherent arc to what was happening.
Often the book felt like loosely related scenes in the life of the character.
الجزء الثالث من الرباعية اليابانية الأشهر (بحر الخصب)يناقش ميشيما في هذا الجزء تيمتيّ الدين والغريزة الجسدية، ويبدو أنه استوعب البون الشاسع بينهما فأفرد لكل منهما قسماً، وهذا هو الكتاب الوحيد بين الكتب الأربعة الذي قُسِّم بهذا الشكل.في القسم الأول يسافر المحامي هوندا إلى الهند ويشهد الاحتفالات البوذية هناك.
أنصحك ألا تدعو يابانياً إلى بلدك، فلا بد أنه سيعود ليشبعها ذماً، فليس ميشيما هو الكاتب الياباني الوحيد الذي فعل ذلك.أما القسم الثاني فكان أخف وطأة، حيث زخر بالشخصيات اللطيفة: كيكو قوية الشكيمة واسعة الحيلة، وميكيكو الشاعرة الماكرة التي استمرت معنا من الجزء السابق، بالإضافة إلى إيمانيشي، الكهل المأفون المولع بالجنس.
La principessa Chiaro di LunaIl terzo libro della tetralogia di Mishima, scritto negli ultimi anni di vita, non è sicuramente all'altezza del primo, il bellissimo "Neve di primavera".Quest'opera e suddivisa in due parti: la I ambientata in Tailandia nel 1941 ; col protagonista Honda di ormai 47 anni: guardandosi allo specchio "aveva visto solo (...) il volto di un uomo che aveva vissuto troppo a lungo".
Ed ecco che Honda invece costruiva una piscina nella sua villa" ove poter ammirare la giovane principessa.Nel breve passo riportato, secondo me, sono racchiusi i due temi centrali del romanzo : la degenerazione culturale e non solo del Giappone e l'orrore per la vecchiaia (incubi dello Stesso Mishima che non volle raggiungere l'età del protagonista ; si tolse la vita a 45 anni).
bereket denizi dörtlemesinin üçüncü romanı şafak tapınağı 1940'tan 1967'ye uzun bir zaman dilimini kapsıyor.
ama mişima ilginç biçimde romanın merkezine almıyor bunu.
tutkulu, inançlı, inançları uğruna ölümü göze alan kahramanların sahneden çekilip bu romanda başrolün ilk iki romanda yaşananları tavır almadan izleyip gözlemekle yetinen honda karakterine kalması da umutsuzluğun hikaye içindeki en büyük göstergesi.
aklın ve akılcılığın katı savunucusu honda yaşlandıkça hayatındaki boşluğu görüyor, bir sorgulama sürecine giriyor ama arayışları, savruluşları onu daha büyük bir boşlukla yüzleştirmekten başka sonuç vermiyor.
şafak tapınağı'nın dörtlemenin en zayıf romanı olması bir tarafa, baskın umutsuzluk ve kayıtsızlığının yazarından bağımsız olmadığını söylemek mümkün.
While it's true that Honda, as a character, may not be the most exciting person in the world, and that I struggled through his touring of India (and the majority of part 1 in general) I can't stress enough how this book picked up the thematic power of the series and took it into overdrive.There's so much reflection on Buddhism and the nature of spiritual transmigration that it could almost function as a textbook on the material.
As both literary and character development, Mishima is recentering the work on Honda, the viewer, the voyeur, the one who is watching all of life transpire.
I'm a huge fan of Yukio Mishima, But I gotta admit "The Sea of Fertility" has not been an easy read. Though I enjoyed "Runaway Horses", "Spring Snow" and "Temple of Dawn" seem to concentrate more on historical facts and Japanese tradition than the story of the characters themselves.. Mishima often utilizes history in order to strengthen the narrative, but this time it has worked in its disadvantage.
The third novel in the Sea of Fertility tetralogy, unlike the other two I think this one really needs the reader to have gone through Spring Snow and Runaway Horses first to be able to follow what is going on properly - and not just the action, as the first third of the book is centred on Honda's quest for a coherent theory of reincarnation, something without internal contradictions that would square with his logical way of thinking.
And from there begins an obsession with her life, and maybe the lives beyond lives, that will consume the rest of the novel and years of barely noticed history.This is the first time we don't really meet Ying Chan, the newest incarnation of his old friend.
الأول ممل للغاية، لا تخرج منه إلا بمواجهة هوندا لينج تشان (الطفلة) - التجلي الثالث لروح كيواكي - ورحلته للهند، وهما العنصران المهمان لفهم القسم الثاني.القسم الثاني من الرواية ممتاز وإن كان بعيداً تماماً عن روح الرباعية ومحورية فكرة التناسخ.
اما هوندا فهو المفاجأة الأكبر حيث ظل طوال ثلج الربيع والجياد الهاربة والقسم الأول من معبد الفجر مثال لبطل روايات مان وهيسه ثم في القسم الثاني من معبد الفجر بطل ياباني عجوز - أو هكذا أفهم من مشاهداتي للسينما اليابانبة - بإمتياز.هوندا هو بطل هذه الرواية وأثرى شخصياتها والشخصية الرجالية الوحيدة المقدمة بإمتياز، وعلى العكس فإن التجلي الثالث لروح كيواكي - ينج تشان - أضعف شخصيات الرواية النسائية، في حين قُدمت باقي شخصياتها النسائية بإمتياز ماكيكو ورايي وتسوباكيهارا وكيكو.إجمالاً رغم المعاناة في قراءة الجزء الأول إلا أن الرواية تستحق القراءة لمكانها في الرباعية ولتميز قسمها الثاني، فقليل من الصبر مع أول 200 صفحة ثم 200 صفحة أخرى من الجمال والمتعة.
Mishima really hates Japan in this one. Everyone's dissolute, jaded and exhausted. "There are only two roles for humans in this world: those who remember and those who are remembered" and "The Temple of Dawn" has only the former.
The book is divided into two parts and I found part one to be a vivid travelogue of Bangkok and the Indian cities visited.In part one which takes place pre-WWII, the main protagonist, Honda, becomes obsessed with buddhism in Thailand and India and the author devotes several chapters to in-depth explanations of buddhist philosophy.
That is the author’s perogative but personally I was disappointed as I was expecting some mention of it, but it is conveniently skipped in a ten year leap between the two halves.This book is the third of a tetralogy but struggled to throw off the encumbrances of previous characters and plots, making constant references that could not be understood unless the previous books had been read.
Where the first two books could stand alone, this one seems rather dependent on the rest of the tetralogy.It's also a less engaging read, both because it describes various characters' lazy descent into increasing decadence and because it contains an (unjustifiably?) extended description of various types of Hindu and Buddhist thought.
Fingers crossed.-------------------It also occurs to me that I'm anxious to read some feminist criticism of this book in particular, and the tetralogy as a whole.
Mishima's handling of women seems less assured and sensitive here than in the previous novels, and it may even be that part of the problem with this book is that an extremely key character is female yet remains somewhat walled-off.
Genelin aksine benim Bereket Denizi serisinde en sevdiğim kitap Şafak Tapınağı oldu. Özellikle Benares'in kaotik ortamıyla ilgili bölüm benim için tüm serinin nirvanası diyebilirim. Yazar bu bölümde bence kokuyu, karmaşayı ve dini aşırılıkları ;insanın bu ortama karşı hissettiği dehşetle karışık vecd halini çok güzel anlatmış. Ama Şafak Tapınağından çok hoşlanmayan okuyucuyuda anlayabiliyorum. Kitapta genel olarak bir ritim bozukluğu var. Yinede konu olarak birinci kitaptaki aşırı estetize edilmiş duygusal gel-gitlerden ya da ikinci kitaptaki idealize edilmiş soylu milliyetçilikten daha ilgi çekici geldi bana.
The constant discussion about buddhism and hinduism felt like reading a textbook for a course I didn't sign up for.
If I really wanted to inform myself, I'd probably look it up in other sources, so I prefer reading novels that are inspiring, rather than explaining.
There's barely any plot (up to where I stopped anyway, which is about halfway through)I guess it also depends on one's interests and I'd say that history and religion are among my least favorite, so talk about ancient Gods is sure to get me disinterested fast.It's taken for granted that we remember secondary characters of previous installments and I felt no need to remember/look it up because I honestly didn't care much for them.
Üç kitap içerisindeki en yoğun anlatıma sahip, hikayenin arka planda olduğu, daha çok düşüncelerden bahsedildiği bu cildi; özellikle ilk 150 sayfasında yoğun şekilde bahsettiği doğu mistizmiyle hem okuma keyif olarak, hem de romanların genel biçimi olarak ciddi olarak ayrılıyor.
Umarım dördüncü kitapta bu bir şekilde daha iyi bir noktada anlam bulur.İkinci nokta ise; ilk kitapta izleyebildiğim Japonya'nın arka planı, tarihsel dönüşümleri, kültürel erozyonu, batılılaşmayı bu kitapta çok üstünkörü görüyoruz.
Mishima bu kadar klinik ya da sapkın şeyler yazmaktan keyif duyuyor bende okumaktan mest oluyorum ancak bu bana çok başka bir roman okuyormuşum hissi verdi.
İlk iki kitabın iyiliğinden kaynaklanan bir sönüklük taşıyor sadece bana göre.

Serinin en uzun sürede okuduğum, en sıkıldığım, yer yer ‘’ya şimdi ne alaka?’’ dediğim konuyu bağlamak için yazıldığını düşündüğüm bir kitap oldu Şafak Tapınağı. İlk iki kitabı -özellikle Kaçak Atlar’ı- heyecanla okumuştum ama bu sefer baya bunaldım. Kahramanımız Honda, kendisinden beklenmeyen biçimde bir prensese aşık oluyor. Konuyu söylemek spoiler olur (sürpriz bozan diyorlarmış buna çok beğendim^_^) fakat birkaç Japon ve Kore yapımı film var sanırım bu kitaptan fazlasıyla etkilenmişler. Kitapta dönemin siyasi olaylarına değinmesini ve Rie’nin artık bir kadın karakter olmayı başarabilmesini sevdim.
The gaze is inverted: this one's about Honda.In the first part, before the war, Honda is a Japanese tourist floating through Siam and India.
The war comes and Honda spends the entirety of it studying reincarnation.
Tadeshina (from vol.
1) eats a raw egg.In the second part, after the war, Honda is a voyeur, and watches everyone else have sex.
57 years old, he convinces himself he is in love with the Thai princess, and he transforms into a Humbert.
For a few chapters, we, the readers, even live in Honda's right eye, propped up against a peephole behind his father's German lawbooks.Thoroughly bizarre and loneliness-inducing.
It's meandering and self-indulgent, and I'm not sure how much I remember of it at the end.Unlike the previous two books that concentrate on Kiyoaki and Kiyoaki reincarnate, The Temple of Dawn dwells on Honda, who is frankly a boring character compared to any form of Kiyoaki.
This time Honda believes that he has encountered his friend in the form of a Thai princess, who is somewhat still related to the two Thai princes appeared in Spring Snow.The book is divided into two parts, separated by untold years of World War II.
The Buddhist & Hindi sections took me a while to get into, so the spiritual arc here was more of a struggle than the emotional & physical of the first two volumes. The second section a much easier read - maybe Mishima struggled with child characters (the young princess in section one?)Another wonderful meditation from Mushima’s oeuvre
Mi parte favorita de todo el libro son los momentos en que lentamente el relato sobre el budismo –que viene explicando Honda- se empieza a fundir con las observaciones del Tokio devastado.
Este momento en que leo sobre esa vieja decrépita que se pone las mejores ropas y se maquilla para volver a un lugar donde hace muchos años era poco más que criada… creo que es uno de los momentos más memorables de toda la literatura japonesa que he leído.Después del encuentro con Tadeshina la novela agarra otro ritmo, por momentos se vuelve muy explícita y repetitiva con respecto a las intenciones de los personajes.
La primera parte de la novela resulta poco interesante: Mishima cuenta el viaje a Tailandia del abogado cuarentón Honda para conocer a Ying Chan, una princesa de 7 años y la supuesta reencarnación de un viejo amigo del protagonista.
Aquí se suceden capítulos cortos que podrían pasar por entradas de la Wikipedia sobre la reencarnación, su distinta concepción en oriente y occidente, el budismo y el hinduismo, etc.
También es muy bienvenida la turbia sexualidad japonesa, los personajes de los artistas (despiadadamente ridiculizados) y que el autor, siendo fiel a la voz del protagonista, no muestre demasiado interés por la situación política del Japón de la posguerra.
Starting a tetraology at book number three is not ideal, but I am still totally enchanted by his great final masterpiece.
There's something unforgettable about the way he writes, or is it his whole personality shining through his writing?...
Not many authors are special like this.Artists and writers are despicable characters to him, but they still get to say great things: "Art is a colossal evening glow", he repeated.
Even the clearest logic that has long thrived in daylight is completely destroyed by the meaningless lavish explosion of colour in the evening sky; even history, apparently destined to endure forever, is abruptly made aware of its own end.
In fact I enjoyed reading this fantastic novel, nearly some two years ago, as its third book of the tetralogy, "The Sea of Fertility".
Despite some luxuriously beautiful passages, I found this novel to be disagreeable. The first half is a extremely detailed account of Buddhist and Hindu beliefs in reincarnation. (For a supposedly atheistic world view, Buddhism sure has a lot of fantastic entities!) There follows a strange series of reflections of an aging lecher; a kind of "Discrete Charm of the Bourgeoise" mash up with the "Fall of the House of Usher". What was Mishima after? Perhaps it is clearer to someone more versed in Japanese thinking. To me, it's rather a mystery.
In the third installment of his Mare Fecunditatis tetralogy, Mishima Yukio beautifully achieves such an effect, and while his reach ever so slightly exceeds his grasp, when taken with the previous two novels, The Temple of Dawn is nevertheless a triumph.
Mishima's ability to capture the spirit of the age, however, slips somewhat: with its greater attention to personalities separated from the national conscience of Japan and a sizable sojourner to Thailand and India, The Temple of Dawn loses the pure verisimilitude of the previous novels.
I would recommend the Temple of Dawn to fans of the other books in the Mare Fecunditatis series: without the contextualization of the previous works the novel would simply be too disjointed and abstruse
Informații despre budism, hinduism (legătura cu zeii grecilor, Dyonysos). Destul de greu de citit. Scenă de sex între două femei. Referiri minime la cel de-al doilea război mondial, personajul e în lumea lui spirituală și a plăcerilor lui voyeuriste.
the first part is just mishima doing a travelogue of thailand and india and giving you a potted history of reincarnation in buddhism, and then the second part is about honda becoming a voyeuristic pervert
Honda’s epic continues, this time featuring some exotic locations. Many fascinating passages of philosophizing, and more beautiful turns-of-phrase than one can count. Don’t be turned off by the early tangent of Eastern religions; it doesn’t last long. I encourage you to take your time with this one, especially as the plot develops momentum. It’s easy to miss the depth of ideas here and the gorgeous prose when reading too fast. I cannot wait for the finale of the tetralogy and am glad I chose this to close out the year. Well-suited for thoughtful, fall/winter reading.
