https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/771466.The_Boo
PROBABLY CONROY’S LEAST INTERESTING.“The Citadel prides itself on being one of the last protectorates of right-wing conservatism in the country.” (Kindle Locations 120-121).Pat Conroy’s first book, The Boo, is a collection of vignettes and anecdotes about life at The Citadel, The Military College of South Carolina, that Conroy attended in the 1960s; and its often feared, often revered, Assistant Commandant of Cadets, in charge of discipline, Lt. Colonel Thomas Nugent Courvoisie, nicknamed The Boo. It is written with obvious fondness and respect.Unfortunately, most of the stories are imbued with a ‘you’d’uv had to been there,’ insider, quality that didn’t connect with this reader.Recommendation: If you’re as stoked on Pat Conroy’s writing as I am, then you should want to read this offering, too.
Kindle Edition, 174 pages, 3,064 Kindle Locations.
This book is basically a series of mostly connected shorter stories about one man he greatly admired, Citadel Lt. Colonel Thomas Nugent Courvoisie.
Conroy later, due to the brutally honest writing of his later novels, was completely shunned by the Citadel.
Courvoisie, the Boo, helped form Conroy's honest, direct life view.
I read this book mainly because I wanted to digest all things Conroy...but found that even though his style wasn't fully formed, "The Boo" gave me tremendous insight into what made Conroy Conroy.
Conroy’s first published work, a memoir of his time at the Citadel. Not well known but worth reading if you like Pat Conroy, AND if you can find a copy!
In the edition I read, Conroy has a fairly lengthy introduction wherein he states that the book crys for the editing of a seasoned writer, but decides not to edit the book, but leave it the way "the young man wrote it"It is a book about the number two guy at the Citidel who was among other things the disciplinarian, but much more.
He wasn't soft, but by Citadel standards he was human.A year after Conroy graduated he was back on campus for the first time and happen to learn that "The Boo" had been fired by the new administration.
Having read all of conroy's books except Boo, I felt compelled to read it.
He is smarter, more successful, and even better looking than I am.
However, Michael is actually smarter, more successful, and better looking than almost every other man in America.) Pat Conroy went to the Citadel too.
I read The Boo to gain important insights into my why my cousin has outpaced me in such a brutal fashion.
If I could prove to myself that it was the Citadel that made him the man he is today -- and not Michael's hard work -- it sure would take some of the pressure off of me.After reading this book I discarded my Citadel theory.
Prior to reading this book, I have to first admit that Pat Conroy will always be my favorite author.
However, I gave Conroy the benefit of the doubt by rating this only three stars, solely because he is my favorite author and I cannot bring myself to rate any book of his lower than a three.I will admit that this book was not the greatest, not writing style wise or how the story was told.
I expected this book to capture the same beauty but I did not feel like this book really impressed me in regards to the direction of the story this book was going.It was 'alright' an adjective that I never use to describe Conroy writing.
Pat Conroy's debut book is a tribute to a Commander at The Citadel who is nicknamed The Boo. It would have been helpful to have read this book BEFORE reading The Lords of Discipline, but I never seem to do things in an orderly manner.
I kept thinking, as I read this book, that each of us could use somene like The Boo in our lives.
He held to a very high standard, expected the most and best out of you, and yet you also knew he cared and would go the extra mile to encourage and support and have your back in the hard times.
Like a good father should.
Very thought-provoking book.
Pat was pretty scathing about this book. Loved it.
Nugent Courvoisie, known to the cadets as “the Boo,” is an imposing and inspiring leader at the South Carolina military academy, the Citadel.
A harsh disciplinarian but a compassionate mentor, he guides and inspires his young charges.Cadet Peter Cates is an anomaly.
The Boo takes Cates under his wing, but their bond is threatened when they’re forced to confront an act of violence on campus.Drawn from Pat Conroy’s own experiences as a student at the Citadel, The Boo is an unforgettable story about duty, loyalty, and standing up for what is right in the face of overwhelming circumstances.**
I don't have that much interest in the Citadel at all, but my interest in Pat Conroy and Charleston, made it still interesting to read.
I didn't have any prior knowledge of military school life, which sometimes made it confusing or boring, but the chapters that related the author's first hand experience with "The Boo" as well as the chapters relating to The "Boo's" relationship and dealings with the cadets over the years, as well as his banishment were interesting.
I also enjoyed the ERW's (the explanations that the cadets had to write when they got in trouble).
It's odd that this and Lords of Discipline were my first introductions to Pat Conroy, but I was dating a Citadel cadet (later married and divorced, but who's counting?) at the time that I read it and The Boo was still alive, even though he was already a subject of much discussion and many legends.
was, and what an enjoyable book for people who have some familiarity with the college and its customs.
Probably only servicemembers and die-hard Conroy fans will truly "get" this book, but for those that do, you'll be greatly pleased with this piece of Pat Conroy's personal history.
I have always loved Pat Conroe's books. This is his first and least favorite book of mine. I can't get into admiring a man who worked and supported the viciousness that was the Citadel in the 60s. I found the short stories hard to read. The early Conroy showed glimpses of the future author.
Pat Conroy himself admits at in a forward that this was the first book he wrote and that he did a poor job. The information is interesting and relevant, esp to those familiar with the Citadel. But as Pat points out, it is not well written.
For hardcore fans of Conroy and "The Lords of Discipline" only. Episodic, by design, and lacking any narrative cohesiveness.
I loved this book.
First - if you are looking to read a Pat Conroy novel because you love him so much, this is not the book for you.
Don't read it.
This is a book about the Citadel, about one legendary man in particular, The Boo. I imagine that if you don't have any connection to the Citadel, or any interest in learning about its very unique culture, this book won't be of value to you.
My dad went to the Citadel - Class of 80 - and this book (and Conroy's others) have brought us closer together.
Conroy tells you up front that this is his first novel and that it's a little rough around the edges. There's quite a bit of filler in the form of amusing, self-critical reports made by various cadets, that Conroy somehow got hold of and inserted into his book. In any case though, it's a good memoir and worth your time.
Its always sad when you finish a Conroy book. It’s even more sad to know that I won’t ever have the opportunity to read one of his stories for the very first time again - this was the only story of his that I had not read - he was such a wonderful writer and I’ve always loved reading his stories.
Memoir of the author's time at the Citadel, and the impact of The Boo (Col. Courvoisie) on the lives of the cadets.
Interesting to read his first work and compare it with the rest of his collection!!!
The BooAll writers have to start somewhere and “The Boo” is Conroy’s first book. Filled with many anecdotes about the Citadel and a man who changed lives.
As most readers know, Pat Conroy spent his formative years after high school at The Citadel, a military college in Charleston, SC.
Courvoisie was in charge of cadet behavior, and he was feared and respected in equal measures by those young men.
Pat Conroy is one of America's national treasures, an author whose every book serves to identify and explain the male psyche to the world.
The Boo is his first book, and it is raw, but what is noticeable above all is the raw talent that would make Conroy a beloved author.
But other than that, I had at times liked the snippets of the "Boo"( stories).
It was written because of his friendship of the Boo. He wanted to tell the story of the Boo's, care of his cadets, looking out for them.
Mr. Conroy tells the story of Boo from 1961-1969.
Pat Conroy wanted to tell the story of this gruff man with a golden heart( he always had a cigar in his mouth).
He did get demoted but he took it with grace,because he loved the Citadel and the young men.I did read this book for Open Road Media as a ebook.
Conroy's first effort at publishing and as Conroy himself stated on numerous occasions, it was poorly written. Obviously, Conroy soon learned how to become a far better writer. The book at times reads like notes that Conroy collected about Colonel Nugent "The Bool" Corvoisie of The Citadel. A collection of miscellaneous tidbits of information and stories that are never weaved together. Despite this, I enjoyed it, providing some of Pat's real experiences which got incorporated into his novel, The Lords of Discipline.
--A picture in time depicting a forceful figure at the Citadel 1961-1968. Consist mostly of vignettes ranging from 1/8 page to 4 or 5 pages. T. N. Courvoisie was a disciplinarian, a detective, a bugaboo, and a father figure to the cadets during his tenure as Assistant Commandant of the Charleston, SC military academy. He was influential for many lives, even those that were ousted from the school.--
In Conroy's defense, he did warn in the introduction that this was a bad book.
A coworker recommended it to me, and I've never read Pat Conroy, so I'd thought I'd give it a go.
Rather, it was a collection of pieces and journal entries that characterized both The Boo and The Citadel.
The only primary character is The Boo, surrounded by generic cadets.
Hopefully I will be able to rid myself of the general negative bias after reading this book that I will most likely hold moving forward.
I wanted to like this book.
I've always look forward to finally reading Pat Conroy.
I gave up on it about 40% in to it (I'm an e-reader) All it was was individual paragraphs of little stories like "some guy did something wrong, (like snuck out of the Citadel for a beer), The Boo let him off" or "The Boo made him stand guard all night" or whatever.
He states at the beginning that non-military types might not understand or dig the book.
I was in the Army for many years and this book sucks to me.
The little stories are meant to be funny, I cam at least tell that.
What a knee slapper!!!I'm not giving up on Conroy though.
$2.02I have read other Pat Conroy books and liked them a lot, especially The Lords of Discipline which is about The Citadel and thought I would like this as well.
It is about life at The Citadel written by Conroy after he graduated.
He makes no apologies that this was his first book, or attempt at a book and knows it wasn't very good.
It was initially banned from The Citadel before becoming required reading for incoming cadets.This sort of life (military) is completely foreign to me, and I guess you had to be there (or know somebody) to understand and appreciate this book.
I chose to read The Boo by Pat Conroy because it was recommended to me by a friend who is actually featured in the book.
The book revolves around the life of cadets in the Citadel, a military school in Charleston."The Boo" was in charge at the time the book takes place.
The Boo goes through dozens of cadet stories and it shows how they really created a bond throughout their time at the school.
I would recommend this book to anyone who needs to see another side of the military and the positive things that come out of it.
I love Pat Conroy, and really enjoyed reading this book.
I think I would have enjoyed it more if I was a Citadel grad.
Conroy does a great job of painting a picture of the Boo himself and helping the reader to appreciate this man.
He also does a great job of showing the problems in the institution and the injustices against the Boo as an employee and a man.
While vintage Conroy, the writing was not his best.
Even so, the book was very well written and Conroy does a great job of helping the reader to join in the experiences of the cadets.
This is Pat Conroy's first book, which I just recently got as an e-galley from NetGalley.
It tells the story of the one of The Citadel's Commandants affectionately known as The Boo. There is very little narrative in this book.
It is mostly telling specific stories about The Boo and specific cadets.
It might be of interest to people who attended The Citadel and perhaps some people involved with the military at large, but I found it pretty boring and found myself skipping long passages of it.
It's definitely something written for a very specific audience, which Conroy often points out in the book.
