https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/923950.The_Highly_Sensitive_Person
So nice to know why I am the way I am after a lifetime of "loved ones" telling me I needed to be less shy, have more confidence (that's real doable when someone constantly criticizes your inborn characteristics), be more outgoing, worry less, am too thin-skinned, take everything personally (duh, I do take it personally when I'm being attacked), and my favorite, "You are just like your father!".
I am just like my father, it's an inherited trait and he's one of my favorite people.
But at least now I know that I am not.
Ok, I finished it.First the good: Aron is at her best when she is helping the reader assess real world challenges and come up with concrete solutions.
That's good stuff, and I think if you're aware that your personal tendencies are causing you to be stuck in unpleasant or untenable situations, this is definitely a helpful book.
I personally found the chapters on children to be good reading, because many of the traits she described fit me to a T as a child, and it's nice to think of myself as having been something other than a scaredy-kid.There's a lot here I disliked or felt ambiguous about, however.
Where the book sort of let me down is that there are a lot of medical reasons - not just depression (which the author does go into in medical terms) - that can cause someone to be HS.
I think this book will help people to see that being a HSP is, not necessarily all bad, in fact we have many good traits as a result of it.
Thankful that this book exists to support those who have always felt more sensitive to the world around them. Though I enjoy a party every now and then, I do prefer one-on-one conversations and time spent reading books and listening to Ariana Grande. With the popularity of books like  Quiet  by Susan Cain, society has started to warm up to those who desire time alone and those who get aroused faster by external stimuli. Still, Elaine Aron's The Highly Sensitive Person contributes to our understa
Still, Elaine Aron's The Highly Sensitive Person contributes to our understanding of sensitive people by shedding light on our relationships, our work lives, and how we can thrive in the world around us.I appreciate how Aron frames sensitivity as a trait that carries both strengths and weaknesses, as any facet of an individual does.
While I felt that her tone came across as a little condescending to sensitive people at times, for the most part Aron did an amazing job of accepting and celebrating a trait so often dismissed by society.I most loved Aron's emphasis on how we should avoid both pathologizing sensitivity and erasing it with medication.
I will be reading it again eventually, just to remind myself of all the important information that Aron researched and now shares with readers.
I feel more confident about expressing my needs, now that I know I'm not the only one, and now that I have been reminded about the strengths which balance out my weaknesses.I am definitely a "highly sensitive person" though I wish she had called it "highly SENSING person" because that is a clearer description to me.
However, it is definitely worth overlooking any strangeness in order to get to the important information which she presents.
These people need down time, peace and quiet to recover from being around people, doing fun or exciting things, going somewhere loud, even interacting with their immediate family if it involves an activity where there is a lot to process.
Highly sensitive people are prone to anxiety and depression, partially because they are a minority in a world populated mostly with people who aren't quite so sensitive and don't understand why they have a hard time handling the normal demands of life or always seem stressed or unsocial.
In fact, most highly sensitive people are smart, thoughtful, and introspective - they have lots of thoughts and they have deep thoughts.
I feel empowered by this new knowledge, and more able to adapt and adjust to be a happier person, partner and human.The only reason I gave this 4 stars and not 5 is because I think the author may lose readers when going in depth into subjects like psychotherapy, early childhood being the cause of most adult problems, and spiritual beliefs.
Not to say some won't find this information helpful, but that it makes the book a more dense read, and in my opinion, strays from the main subject.The author so clearly described problems I've had throughout my life--at work, with family, with friends, and in my relationships.
I probably didn't like this mostly because it's self-help and I was just trying to get some concept of how to explain myself to other people...
I always liked being the way I was, so I think a separate book for people who are that way and enjoy it is in order.I would have preferred this if it had been geared at informing and not at fixing the way we think about sensitivity.
Understanding something leads to changing our concept, and telling a large group of variable people how to change something is just not helpful.I also thought she was basing too much of it on how she is, as a sensitive person.
Being out more often won't help me be happier or somehow make me less sensitive.As another reviewer notes, the author discusses a woman who had a history of abuse and assault who finally started her artistic career after ending an abusive marriage.
I won't deny that it probably helps many HSPs in their daily lives, but it went a little too far for me and I definitely just wanted the book to end.It's unfortunate because it seems Aron is a leading figure when discussing HSPs and I had been very much looking forward to this book.
Quiet: The Power of Introverts in a World That Can't Stop Talking was much better.
If I hadn't read Quiet before reading this book, I may have given it 2 or 3 stars instead.
ugh.The author sounds very stuck in her way of thinking, and the style of writing was very grating.
Especially since this is in a book about highly sensitive people, you'd think she would know better than to pull that.Don't recommend.
If you want to know about introversion and sensitivity, Quiet is a much better (and more helpful) book.
The author/psychologist coined the phrase "highly sensitive person"(or "HSP") admittedly in reference to herself and to those whom she has found in her 5 years of research to make up approximately 20% of the human population.
According to the author, Western and Indo-European societies tend to under-value many HSP attributes such as introversion, but HSP's are actually important contributors to a balanced civilization, acting as the advisors, judges, and spiritual leaders to the population majority's "warrior king" tendency to fearlessly expand and conquer.
هالكتاب إلو عندي ذكريات قديمةذكريات دمها تقيل أو يمكن أنا بشوفها دمها تقيل بعد مرور الوقت عليهاقاريت
Ever wonder why some people perceive almost everything while others seem oblivious? Ever wonder why some folks seem overwhelmed at times while others see to manage through those markets and crowds without a care? Ever wonder why some are told they are just too sensitive, which makes them distance themselves from others?If you do, this book will help answer those questions about the 10-20% of our population that has the unique gift or curse of being Highly Sensitive People.
Makes it sound like the author thinks all social liberals are HSPs, who are loving, nurturing, caring and peaceful people and all social conservatives are non-HSPs and evil warmongers out to destroy the environment.Sorry, but I don't think highly sensitive introverts are all in one political box, nor do I think all those who are not sensitive to outside stimuli, or enjoy it, are all evil, uncaring, unfeeling people.This book so far is a mess.
Have you ever thought you were weird because you couldn't stand to watch movies or read books with a lot of violence in them while other people seemed to love that stuff?
I even talked to a few of my friends who I think might be highly sensitive, and they felt the same way.I decided to read this after Anne from Modern Mrs. Darcy (modernmrsdarcy.com) recommended it for those of us who would consider ourselves more sensitive than the average person.
Rather than use standard medical terminologies such as obsessive compulsion, depression, or bipolar disorder, she calls people afflicted/blessed with this frame of mind "Highly Sensitive Persons" or HSPs.Aron probes the personality of that 10 to 20% of persons who are especially sensitive to stimula.
The world does often stimulate us beyond our sensitivities and we need to take steps to lessen that effect.
Aron points out that medications need to be seen as a safety net to keep us from going too high or too low.
This book helped me realize what I had already suspected.....I was in fact a highly sensitive person. And more importantly....it was ok.....for I had good reason for being that way.
Een fijn en goed boek.
Fijn en duidelijk.Wat ik fijn vond aan dit boek:* De herkenbaarheid* Hoe de schrijfster omgaat met de karaktereigenschap.
Misschien wel anders, maar de ene persoon heeft het ook eerder koud dan de ander, dan is het ook niet raar dat andere prikkels bij de een anders binnen komen dan bij de ander, toch?
Dit vond ik een heel fijn inzicht en een goede vergelijking.* De hoeveelheid wetenschappelijk onderzoek ernaar die ze noemt.
Wat ik minder fijn vond:* De enorme hoeveelheid voor mij niet relevante informatie.
Dit kan per persoon natuurlijk verschillen.
I even went to a Highly-Sensitive People support group for a time.
Looking back, I suspect that several people in that support group I attended had undiagnosed Asperger's and I hope they were able to find assistance that was tailored more specifically to their needs.So, to sum up, this book may be helpful to people who are a bit more sensitive or naturally shy, but its ambiguity may lead some in entirely the wrong direction.
Finally, if you think you may be something more than just sensitive, if you're often confounded by social situations that don't faze others, or if you find yourself wondering if you're even living in the same sensory world as most people, than there is a fabulous online test for Asperger's called The Aspie Quiz.
There is a 23-question "sensitivity test" on pages xxi-xxii; I answered 22 of them positively (in other words, "Yes, this bothers me").However, after the first three or four chapters, I felt that the book was repeating itself, saying the same things but merely changing the settings.
I have enough imagination that I don't need things spelled out for every aspect of life.Being a conservative Christian, I don't find the definite New Age slant of the book especially edifying, especially since it is not overtly acknowledged.It has some interesting ideas, but as a fairly well-adapted sensitive person I don't find that I need the extensive advice and "make sure you feel good about yourself" handpatting.My summary: not bad, but not riveting either.
[...] Alas, when being watched, timed or evaluated an intuitive-sensitive goes into themselves and the inability to function is lost...BALANCE is Key!
This illuminating read is full of profound insights, into the mind and experiences of the intuitive-sensitive being.
As a personal side note, having rated 99% HIGH on everything, clearly I knew then that I was potentially a rarity --and feel everything extremely strongly!
Jung is so right; as he quotes how discovering the question of your human life is a never-ending voyage, that's miraculous and so deeply-rooted you'll never be reluctant to turn from.
In other words, I know I tire easily after being around people too much, and need restorative alone time, (despite the fact that I might seem like a social butterfly on the outside), and I know that I have a low tolerance for doing B.S. jobs that aren't "on the front lines" (Aaron says HSPs often crave meaningful careers).And I would LOVE to be able to claim that I have a legitimate, neuro-scientific cause for these traits--I could justify needing a nap every day and needing to not hate my job!
So I think it's worth a read if you take the quiz and any of the personality traits apply to you.Well, now I've been too "aroused" by dealing with all you people and need to go take a nap.
I learned that not only nothing is wrong with me because I am "too sensitive", and that I don't need to develop a "thick skin", but that being highly sensitive is a gift that I should be proud of.
Nowhere in the book you can find any more explanations: exactly in which part of the brain the difference occurs, does a single "thing" controls all the different sensory receptors, and how, why for some people anxiety intensifies the sensitivity, etc.
I she says about is being overwhelmed by a situation, following a general solution of love yourself, embrace yourself, protect yourself from the world.I can still have difficulty accepting the analogy between an infant and an HSP, and most of the book is based on this idea.
However, as somebody on the sensitive end of the spectrum, I've spent a lot of time frustrated by my inability to deal with long parties with strangers, loud concerts with bright light effects, and all-day festivals.
I've spent so much mental energy trying to "fix" myself so that I'm able to do things like go the state fair for the day, and I've been entirely without success.Instead, and with prompting from this book, I've been learning when to say "enough," when to tell everybody "I've had a fantastic time, and I need to head home now.
Wow, do I wish someone had given me this book to read, like, 10 years ago.The criticisms:- Wanted more specific techniques and suggestions.- She's really into how Highly Sensitive People are super important to society and we should all feel so good about how valuable and meaningful our sensitivity is and how much we have to contribute to the world.
I felt like the book really begged the question, as it used the metaphor of taking care of your body's needs as if your body were a baby.
For example, she goes on at length about how shyness is an acquired trait, unlike sensitivity which is inborn.
In fact, it was quite a relief to read about my own personality, which is often quietly and unobtrusively at odds with modern American culture, from a rather clinical, yet entirely compassionate, point of view.
This book has given me a deeper understanding of myself and of the “other” people around me – those who are most emphatically not HSPs. It has opened my eyes to the actions and/or inactions of others that always came across as quite rude, insensitive, and entirely self-centered are in fact really, truly, often not meant that way at all.
As always, having a better understanding of a thing helps one to overcome or live with it.
I really liked the overall message of this book and found it informative. Unfortunately I also found it rather dry, and some of the exercises and comparisons outdated and obtuse.
After reading this book, I was much more comfortable describing what works for me because I fit being a highly sensitive person.The book says "we are 15 to 20 percent of the population...highly sensitive people are real, we exist...its about a hundred thousand people finally finding themselves in this book...the secret trait that you have thought of as a flaw all your life is a flaw no longer." (p.
The observation, then, is that people who as children had an non-secure attachment didn't learn to respond to new experience in a safe and slow way: instead new experience is perceived as a threat needing long-term arousal.In terms of learning to balance our engagement in the world, the author offers two independent scales: the problem of being 'in too much' (self-test p.
My therapist recommended this book to me after I mentioned how sensitive I am to sound and light.
It was also interesting to read why a small set of the population is born with this trait - the sensitive people are far more intuitive and pick up on acute information faster than the rest of the population, so we’re supposed to serve as society’s watchdogs/advisors, basically (COOL.
This book ended up being one of the most important I’ve ever read for my own personal self awareness.
