https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/133404.Out_of_This_Furnace

WORST BOOK EVER!!!!! The only reason I gave it two stars was because it had its facts straight, other than that; NEVER READ IT!!! I died each time I read this book, and I really don't want to put anyone else through my suffering!
It's written in novel form, but it's basically the biography of the author's family.The conditions in the mills in the late 1800's and early 1900's were hell on earth.
After Andrew Carnegie managed to defeat the early unions, he then built a library in town.
The other interesting aspect was that they were nmembers of the "Greek Catholic" church, which is an Eastern Rite Catholic .Church that is affiliated with Rome now, but for centuries, was geographically separated.
This is the church that is shown in the wedding in The Deer Hunter.
I had assumed that church was Orthodox and hadn't heard of "Greek Catholic" before.
Again I want to give this a 3.5!
This follows three generations of Slovak steel workers in the Pittsburgh area from 1880 to the late 1930's.
This is the type of book that reminds me of where I've come from (my grandfather was born to coal miners in Ohio in 1899 who later moved to the coal mines of southern Colorado) and HOW BLESSED I AM.
Let me say it again: I am blessed.
Would you ever have guessed your granddaughter would read about the steel factories from her apartment in China?!
This is the story of Slovak immigrants settling in Braddock, PA and working in the Edgar Thomson (and others) steel mill. It covers three generations. My husband was a third-generation ET worker. Knowing a bit about Braddock and the mill intensified the story for me. I could also relate to the Slovak, as my grandparents came from that general area. The doctor in the story had a name similar to my family name.
A historical novel that educates while telling its story. I learned more about immigrant and labor history from this book than I did from any immigrant or labor history textbook. If you're looking for the sort of novel that is high entertainment specifically, you'll probably be disappointed, as it's not that sort of book, but as a narrative that relates the struggles of three generations of a Slovak family in Western PA, it does exactly what it should be doing.
This is a really cool book. I have to read it for my US History class, but its amazing how good of a read it is. I'm very interested in the similarities between the characters and my own ancestors. My family came from croatia and hungary, and my great grandfather worked in the steal mills. It gives me a closer look into what their lives might have been like.
An excellent historical novel about the Western PA steel industry. Divided into three parts: the arrival of Eastern European immigrants, their lives and the lives of their families as these immigrants toiled to earn a living and sustain themselves, and the rise of the unions..this novel documents an important part of the region's history from the late 19th century until the beginning of World War II.
This was how the mills broke the strike then...by going down South and recruiting poor Blacks to come work in the mills (this isn't directly told in the book at all...but you get an alluding to it when the Slovaks in the book start talking about "the niggers".Growing up I heard many of the laments about the back breaking toil of steel workers.
However it is interesting to note that Bell's personal ties to this novel (which was modeled after his own family) forces you to see things through the Slovak lens.
From my Grandfather's perspective growing up in the 1920s as a little Black boy, the bottom barrel steelworkers were still pretty diverse.
With that being said this book moved me like no other collection of words ever has.
Not to mention my Slovak heritage, and I'm the first generation of my family to not work in a steel mill.
In fact being born in the early 80's my generation has watch the dismantling of the steel industry here in Pittsburgh and The United States in general.
This book felt like a chance hear the stories of relatives I was too young to meet.
I recommend this book for anyone with an interest in American immigration, the U.S. labor movement and especially anyone of Slovak heritage.
To be honest with you guys, I give this book a thumbs down.
If anyone wants to read this book I strongly recommend you to reconsider.
If you are looking to read an action packed, life changing novel about European immigration then "Out of this furnace" is not the book for you.
One of the many things I did not like about the story was the dialouge that the book lacked having.
Each character wasnt given enough dialoge and descriptive text to match the characters potental for this book to have a sort of push to spice it all up.
This is a classic Pittsburgh novel, but also a very good novel for those interested in the late 19th century immigrant experience. It tells the tale of a steelworking family and their neighbors trying to make it in a hardscrabble and dangerous environment in what was then the booming steel town of Braddock, Pa. (now a virtual ghost town)
Should be required reading for all high schools in the Pittsburgh, PA, area, if not in the country. Immigration, hard work, and class struggle are not new concepts. Those who forget the past are doomed to repeat it.
The ending was ok, but for the most part I just didn't understand what was going on. History 202 is which class I read it for.
Out of this furnace by Bell_ ThomasStarts out in 1880's and with the travel by foot George Kracha travels from NY to PA.
He had other family members who could get him a job at the railroad...His wife is sent over and she gets pregnant often and they live in a shanty.
Unions form so men can get paid what they are worth...interesting to hear of their struggles and how they overcome poverty and lack of work at times...Generations of the family and how they lived and died.
I received this book from National Library Service for my BARD (Braille Audio Reading Device).
Read this book years ago. Living in the Pittsburgh area and raised by hard working first generation parents with strong union roots, this story tells the immigration story of so many of us. I remember loving this book!
I really enjoyed reading, considering I normally dislike reading books when they’re assigned. The book is very sober, but concerning the setting it is accurate. (And the one character I hated survived the longest..)
Rereading this book, but I first read it so many years ago that I hardly remembered it. Slovak immigrants to the western PA steel industry area and how they are treated by the company and the other people living in America.
Incredible story! Absolutely love the detail and historical accuracy!
An excellent book! Deals with the labor movement in an organic way, the writing is smooth and easy to read, and the characters are interesting
Dobre - book about Slovak steel mill workers in Pittsburgh. Awesome.
An amazing read, especially as a native Pittsburgher. Really illuminates the struggle of Eastern European immigrants in the early 1900s. Helped me gain appreciation for my own ancestors!
Multi-generational account of Slovakian immigrants working in the Western Pennsylvania steel mills in the late 19th early 20th century--reminds one of some of the work of Zola.
This is a moving, fictionalized history of our immigrant ancestors, steelworkers. The narration ends with the victory of the SWOC's campaign to unionize the mills. A must read for students of US labor and social history.
Thomas Bell's Out of This Furnace is a powerful saga that chronicles the struggles and triumphs of three generations of the Dobrejcaks, a Slovak-American family in the Pittsburgh-area steel-making city of Braddock, Pennsylvania.
Pittsburgh-area readers may particularly enjoy the way in which this novel chronicles part of the history of Western Pennsylvania.
I think that Bell's ancestors who labored so hard in the steel mills would have taken pride in the spirit of conscientious workmanship with which Bell crafted this strong and effective novel.
This book provides a very informative look into the steel industry that shaped the city of Pittburgh.
For instance, during the Great Depression, the characters in the book blame the government and the Republicans for their troubles.
Also, the characters in the book slam Republicans for being members of the KKK.
So, other than these political inaccuracies, I found the book to be incredibly informative.
Fianlly, I would have to say that the author seemed to spend too much time on the early stories of these immigrants while breezing through the unionization process that took place in the mills.
It recounts the struggle of the Slovak immigrants to maintain decent lives while living in the inhuman conditions of working in the steel mills during the late 1800's.
In today's world when many seem to have lost respect for the value of a human life and respect for the value of honor in our code of living, this book reminds us of the reason our ancestors immigrated to the United States and the belief that they had that it was possible to create a world in which all men are treated with honor and respect as equals.
It is a history of an important phase of the labor movement, a splendid memorial to a particular ethnic group.” My favourite statement (keeping in mind the word men/man to me translates to human beings): “It was the way you thought and felt about certain things.
About the right of every man to live his life as he thought best, his right to defend it if anyone tried to change it and his right to change it himself if he decided he liked some other way of living better.
I found this book interesting and informative about the lives of this particular family of mill workers in the time period of the book.
My family is from the area and I had relatives who worked in these same mills so I felt like I learned something about my own family history.
Although the book was slow, it was very informative and made more personal by making it about the types of people you would find at the time and I would recommend it to other book clubs interested in the history of the steel mills and the how the immigrants lived/worked who came over from eastern Europe
It followed three generations, beginning with Kracha, a man who came to America from Slovakia in the early 1900's.
His brother, who was already working in America, sent him money so he could join him.
Then, years later, the first woman he met on the way to America showed up and he had an affair with her, while still married himself.
Can you tell I didn't like him at all?His daughter, Mary, married Mike and their story was much better.
