https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/400900.Dreams_of_Steel
☠ Buddy reread with the clueless new mercenary recruits Elena and Mark over at BB&B. Under the wicked supervision of our Ever-Stalking Black Company Overlord (ESBCO™), of course ☠➽  And the moral of this reread is : Kina is such a hot babe. I mean, if no clothing + serrated fangs + clawed feet + four arms + eight breasts + a necklace of baby skulls + a girdle of severed penises isn't the steamiest, most titillating combination ever, I don't bloody shrimping know what is.See? Kina is so lusci
But I feel both uninspired and lazy as hell today decided to be my usual magnanimous, thoughtful self and spare you the ordeal.
You're welcome.Just pointing this ↑↑ out in case you hadn't noticed.So. All you have to know about this OMFG-One-Of-My-Favorite-Books-Of-All-Time-This-Is-Freaking-Amazing-I-Am-So-In-Love-Can-We-Please-Reread-It-Now book is:① 
♕ ALL HAIL THE FREAKING QUEEN ♕Once upon a time (up until I read this OMFG book) Kate Daniels was my everything.
Glen Cook THE god writes female characters like no other
If you actually listened to me and followed my ever-insightful advice once in a while, you would get to read awesome-amazing-OMFG this is unbelievable-YES YES YES-MORE MORE MORE books like this one.
“More evil gets done in the name of righteousness than any other way.”  Last book began with only seven surviving members of the Black Company trying to recreate it. This time this number was down to just one person - the rest were dead or otherwise incapacitated. This person happened to be Lady who used to be practically a demigod; anybody who can honestly say about himself/herself the following can undoubtedly qualify for demigod-ness: "I’m no believer in fate or gods, in the accepted senses,
This person happened to be Lady who used to be practically a demigod; anybody who can honestly say about himself/herself the following can undoubtedly qualify for demigod-ness: "I’m no believer in fate or gods, in the accepted senses, but there are powers that move the world.
Once I was one."Practically everybody who managed to get to this point of the series figured out Rule #1 of Surviving in Black Company Universe: do not get Lady pissed off.
We finally able to get in the head of this former demigod and see her development up close and personal; as such the book is quite grim and has practically no humor or Croaker's irony.
I am at a loss for words. I stand in awe. This book is a dream come true.The Lady on her quest for restitution was such a delight to read, a book unputdownable from the first to the last page. Oh, is she an evil, deadly, power-hungry, manipulating, strong-willed, blackhearted thing.  "You ever watch a gardener prune? He snips a twig here, a branch there, and the plant grows stronger. I’ll prune if I have to.” And she sticks at nothing if need be. She starts off alone and without anything or anyo
This book is a dream come true.The Lady on her quest for restitution was such a delight to read, a book unputdownable from the first to the last page.
Oh, is she an evil, deadly, power-hungry, manipulating, strong-willed, blackhearted thing.
I’ll prune if I have to.”
like everyone else.
Thankfully having her as the narrator took nothing away from her character but on the contrary, I admired her more with every page I read in spite of how evil she is.
Her intrigues and manipulations were so much fun to witness from up close.
Best book I've read in a long time.
Buddy Read with Buddies Books and Baubles. it was a bit torturous not to leap ahead after that cliff hanger. Come on Lady, I'm pulling for you.Have you ever read a book and discovered that just about anything you said about it would be a spoiler?This is that book for me. I have been working on how to talk about it for a week without giving everything away and I’m pretty sure that is practically impossible.Here is what you need to know:• Your favorite characters are probably alive….at least for t
I have been working on how to talk about it for a week without giving everything away and I’m pretty sure that is practically impossible.Here is what you need to know:•	Your favorite characters are probably alive….at least for the moment.•	There is a new chronicler for the Black Company And she is AMAZING•	There is a new god Kina and I’m pretty sure that she and The Lady are not going to get along long term.•	That person that showed up at the end of Shadow Games….has a plan and it totally worries me.•	Rule #1 of this series has been….DO NOT CROSS THE LADY.
"In the night the winds die and silence rules the place of glittering stone."The great battle of Dejagore is over, with devastating consequences for the last of the Free Companies of Khatovar.
The infamous black battle standard disappears in the following chaos and confusion, and several key members of the Company are lost.
The change in protagonist is a welcome one, even though none can match Croaker's skills as the Company's annalist.
Still, it's 'absodamnlutely' another marvellous tale of war and soldiering in Glen Cook's world of fantasy.And the Black Company takes another step towards the fabled city of Khatovar...EDIT: Changed the rating to the one this book deserves.
*** 4.36 ***A buddy read with the mercenaries from BB&B!I love the Lady and her black and Bloodthirsty heart!
My heart aches for the Black Company and the many hardships it has been forced to endure as of late...
The previous book ended by spearing me through the chest and left me at the mother of all cliffhangers!!!
This time around The Lady is the one writing the journal of the company's history and at the end she closed her book with promises of vengeance and furious retribution!!!
I'm completely absorbed in these books when I'm reading them -- the world and mythology are so vivid, so real, and the characters so interesting.
I'm just blown away by how freaking brilliant Glen Cook is, and the powerful way he's telling this huge story, filling in details without ever bogging down in too many words or descriptive passages, and dropping hints about the Big Story at just the right pace to keep me breathlessly flipping the pages, even as each installment has its own gripping plot arc.
This installment is full of death and bloodshed -- but weirdly, in the best way possible, if that makes any sense.
And if you love the Lady, which I now do, you will love this book.
The Lady is the new Annalist and the new captain of The Black Company, and she is out for blood and revenge.
We have some characters show up that I thought long gone, and I feel like this one is leading to a long fight ahead.
I feel like I'm on acid while reading this series, even though I have never tried it!
The Black Company is like no other band of bad boys I have ever come upon.
It also made me see red when (view spoiler)[her baby (hide spoiler)] was ripped from her as I now understand that even though she's been alive for centuries she hasn't truly lived.
Relatively early on we learn that (view spoiler)[Croaker is alive (hide spoiler)] and a big part of the plot had to do with this character's path back to the Black Company.
Still I wanted at least a scene with (view spoiler)[Lady, Croaker and their baby daughter (hide spoiler)] damn it all!
What put me off most, was that Cook wasn't even trying to pretend that it was some fantasy Neverland, like he fantastically did before – names were Indian-ish pretty much, rituals (sati) came straight from Indian religious tradition (lets not discuss if it's a good ritual or not, because of course not), Deceivers were sort of a parody of Sikh warriors – he used such name as Narayan Singh for one of the characters.
I missed this voice the most.Like I said before, it got better right before the end, when the action (and reading) finally moved on and things started to happen and some of them were surprising...
More evil gets done in the name of righteousness than any other way.Just when I thought that Glen Cook’s grimdark Black Company world couldn’t get any bleaker, any darker, or any weirder….
Croaker provides the dark sense of humour of the two, with Lady remembering some of things he has said or imagining what he would say when she finds herself hip deep in slaughter.
I couldn’t abide a constant diet of grimdark fantasy in my reading life, but I must know what happens to this two bloodthirsty duo.Book number 258 in my Science Fiction and Fantasy reading project.
Another excellent entry in the series, with the pacing, turnabouts, and surprises I've come to expect. If you get this far, do not read the Goodreads summary or book blurb on the back cover or inside flap. Just go in blind.
"Narayan, the throne I gave up was the seat of an empire so broad you couldn't have walked it east to west in a year.
The Captain and I put down a wakening evil left over from the first empire I created.
Now I'm winning them back, slowly and painfully."Narayan couldn't believe.
I entered this world before the Black Company passed this way the first time.
I'm old, Narayan.
I was the Lieutenant, his chief of staff."I'm the Captain now, Narayan.
It may wear another name but behind the domino it be the Black Company.
While the first book in the Book of the South series was a bit of a lull for The Black Company series this one was a return to top form.
Dreams of Steel was as action packed and interesting as the early books in the series.
After the events at the end of Shadow Games we have a new annalist and captain of The Black Company in the form of its former adversary Lady.
Rating: 4.5 stars.Audio Note: This instalment of The Black Company series saw a change of narrator from the excellent Marc Vietor to Rachel Butera.
Dreams of Steel is the fifth installment in the so-far excellent Black Company series.
Finally, it should be noted that even though Shadow Games and Dreams of Steel are marketed as “The Books of the South”, and the next installment, Bleak Seasons, begins “The Book of Glittering Stone”, don’t be thrown off by this delineation...the major plot points are definitely not wrapped up by the end of this novel, and seem to lead right into the next one.
G.Cook really knows how to deliver on the last book .
If the previous one had some shortcomings this book more than made it up for them.Dark, bloody and twisted.
Breath of old death, seeping blood of the thousands, cruel old gods, dark cults, human sacrifices.
Recommended for everyone who likes strong female characters and their fantasy dark and bloody (not for the faint of heart)I’m no believer in fate or gods, in the accepted senses, but there are powers that move the world.
That I know well.
Once I was one.==========Welcome to the Book of the Lady
And we get to see events from her point of view.This novel is best read immediately after book 4 as together, they really are a duology within the larger series.
As always with these books, the reader really needs to be on their toes because the plot is complex and details are sometimes sparse.
I did not see that coming even though looking back, all the clues were there.I want to say this is probably my favorite book in the series so far.

If you say you saw that coming in book one, I'll call you a liar.After hating her, wanting her dead, not liking her, not trusting her, maybe liking her a little, and now I'm cheering for her???
This is her book and mostly her POV, which is really interesting - even if you still hate her.
Even her allies aren't to be trusted.
Action - This is more intrigue in this book than any other thus far, but it's the Black Company, and there is a war going on so of course there's action.
Pero tuve tantos problemas y gracias también con este libro que al menos quiero decir algo breve.Sí, es el quinto de la saga de la Compañía Negra y el segundo...
La Compañía Negra, sin embargo, era una saga que quería leer, y cuando encontré este libro en una mesa de saldo, me dije "¿por qué no?".
No voy a mentir, las últimas páginas las disfruté (y eso sin haber leído los anteriores), pero porque justamente me vendieron algo que no era.
Although the book ended on a solid note for me, I disliked most parts of the books because I think t
While this book has all the markings of an awesome novel – crazy death cults, evil gods, headless sorceresses, epic battles, and everything else – I feel like it doesn't live up to the expectations I had from the original trilogy.
While Dreams of Steel was a fun read, it just didn't really feel the same.
It was a lot less entertaining and I definitely felt like there were plenty of details I must of missed, even though it's the second time I've read it.
While Dreams of Steel was a major step-up from Shadow Games, it feels like a downgrade from anything in the original trilogy.
After the cliffhanger ending of the previous book, we get some answers. We see how part of The Black Company rebuilds itself (yet again) around the Lady, who is awesome. Some more backstory is added, we have some cult members, Taken that return and the remaining members of the Shadowmasters.Great stuff!Not sure why this is the end of the Books of the South, as the ending felt a bit abrupt and well, the Company is still in the south, but I'll happily move on to book 6.
Howler caught the timbre of daring in Longshadow’s voice. He was going to try something dangerous.Disasters had knocked the daring out of Howler.
This is the book I was really looking forward to re-reading.
It's the one where the Lady does the narration.
I enjoyed it much more than the first book of the South.
It's much more spooky and menacing and the main character is probably the worst of everyone.
The Lady is starting to get her powers back and does some pretty dispicable things but you still like her anyway as she seems like her most human.
The sad part is that her and Croaker spend the entire book missing each other and the ending.
There's also more characterisation among the new minor characters which is good.
Po ankstesnės dalies buvo įdomu skaityti ir sužinoti, koks likimas ištiko pagrindinius veikėjus, pasitikrinti, kiek teisingai pati tai sugebėjau nuspėti. Džiaugiausi šios dalies pasakotoju, labai norėjau išgirsti būtent šio veikėjo įvykių versiją. Kiek keista, nes skaitydama pirmą, o ir antrą dalis nebūčiau pagalvojus, kad taip nuomonė pasikeis. Kiek čia buvo visokių pripainiotų, supainiotų įvykių, taip ir laukiau, kaip ir kada viskas išsipainios. Aišku, viskas ir neišsipainioja, bet visgi, labai buvo įdomu. Kai jau paimi rankas, padėti nesinori. O pabaiga manau žada dar įdomesnių įvykių, apie kuriuos nekantrauju skaityti toliau.
Reading about Lady's conquest in the south is like what I imagine Pat Rothfuss' most zealous fans feel when they reread Kvothe's ridiculous misadventures for the hundredth time. It's an absolutely sublime experience. This is arguably one of the best and definitely my favorite book of the whole lot. Top toot!
This is the best book in the series so far! This time around we have Lady as narrator and the keeper of the Annals hence begins The Book of Lady and what a wonderful voyage that was!
Cette deuxième partie est beaucoup plus entrainante mais on remarquera une certaine redite avec toutes les aventures qu’on a déjà vécues, on commence à sentir l’auteur tourner en rond sur son sujet.
Ça se ressent aussi dans le ton de la narration, puisque c’est elle qui raconte, elle est plus factuelle, plus descriptive, et il faut avouer que la gouaille de Toubib manque un peu de temps en temps.Nous avons donc un chapitre de la Compagnie Noire agréable et dépaysant, qui peine a vraiment démarrer mais une fois que c’est fait, c’est du tout bon malgré un petit air de déjà-lu.
This is the fifth book of the Black Company, and in the fashion of skeptics I began it with expectations of mediocrity, because surely in the course of sequels such mediocrity was due, and many begin to wear thin after the initial trilogy. Cook proved me wrong by a long shot! This chronicle is as riveting as the ones before it.
