https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5182.Songs_in_Ordinary_Time
This is about the time I quit reading Oprah's bookclub books. I want to slash my own wrists after reading most of them. I mean a steady diet of tragedy is just too much.
Morris has created a world in which no one is free of some warping or embittering experience except the family next door to the protagonists, and they are presented in such cliched, matchstick form as to be beyond credibility--they exist merely as a balance to the pitiful main family and the characters who attach to them in an ever-widening series of cracks in the society of the small town in which they live.
I do get the idea that Morris apparently thinks she is making, that Marie Fermoyle (the central character) is actually strong, pulling something from nothing, from the disaster that her life has been--but the novel is distasteful to me almost from the start.
Songs is well written.The characters are interesting.The plot is believable.The town is realistic.And all of it is incredibly, incredibly depressing.Not *one* single person in the entire book has a good life.
Or even a reasonably happy one -- or a shot at happiness, at that.
And the fact that it's well written does nothing to help the fact that it's painful to read about these pitiful little lives in this pitiful little town.Even though it's set a decade and a half before my birth, maybe it just all rings too familiar.
But I literally had to force myself to finish it.
The only good thing?
Only because of my hard-and-fast rule that I must finish reading every book I start, did I complete "Songs in Ordinary Time".
Had the book been capped at, say, 300 pages it might have been, at least, moderately tolerable.
At page 600, I was ready to physically hurt people .
The whole thing was fraught with far too many characters, many with woefully incomplete story lines, and every one of them needed to be medicated and could benefit from more than a few hours on a therapist's couch.
I think I registered only two emotions reading this book - neither good.
It took some time to get through, but Morris held my attention for two weeks with her wonderful, in depth characters and story telling.
All of the characters are tragically despondent and intricately entwined with each another, all of them constantly moving away from one another only to come to a full circle in the end.
These characters were just some of the stories that swirled through the narrative.
All in all, Songs in Ordinary Time  was a brilliant read, and it joins a short list of books that I reread on a regular basis.
This books reminds me of why I stopped reading Oprah's book club selections.
Thank goodness I don't live in Arlington, VT, where this book is set (nominally, via references to ski boots and neighboring NY and Quebec).
The town is composed of the entire class list from "ACME book of Dopes and Losers." They are all here: the Con Man, the Drunk, the Bitter Divorcee, the Pervert, the Conflicted Priest, the Seemingly Normal Person with Hidden Secrets..not a likable character in the bunch.
Even worse - I think I may have read it before (or is it just that it's full of cliches?
I learned nothing, and I have no idea what Oprah was thinking. For 740 pages I stuck with this book, thinking it has to get better, there has to be something more. There isn't. Everyone ends up in the same place they started.
I only managed to get through 50 pages, but there was not one hint in those pages that the book had any message other than the world is an ugly place and people can be badly damaged.
Perhaps I should have been interested in knowing what happened when the murderous con man moved in on the dysfunctional family.
But there wasn't a character sympathetic enough so that I cared what happened to him or her.
I don't require a Pollyanna view of the world, but if its darkness is going to be portrayed in a book, then I want that portrayal to have some meaning.
This book was a bit difficult to get into at first, but the author has such a way with words that I found myself reading some of her lines over and over again just to savor the artistry.
I read this book about a year ago, and I still think about it regularly.
The characters were so well crafted that I feel like I know them and wish I could read more about them.
I wish I could write like this!
If you prefer character driven novels over plot driven, this is the book for you.
This book was the most depressing, disheartening book I have ever read. For over 800 pages you keep thinking "Things can't get worse, they've got to start getting better." Oh yes they can and oh no they don't. Unless your life is really crappy right now and you want to read the only book where people have it worse than you, don't waste your time.
First and foremost, this book was WAY too long.
I am not against a long book, but 740 pages of the summer of 1960 in a small VT town where the action is either lacking, or repetitive, is excessive.
Morris could have left 200+ pages out of this book and no one would have known.
And a fatal error for me.....an easily checked anachronism that showed the lack of effort on the editor's part--a Mustang pulls into a gas station in the summer of 1960.
One problem--Mustangs weren't introduced until 1964.
Only stubbornness made me finish this book.
At first glance this appears to be a look at small town America, but it's better than that. "Songs in Ordinary Time" is more of a close study on how people justify their actions. How does a swindler view taking other people's money as acceptable? How does a husband explain to himself why he hit his wife in a drunken argument? How does a businessman justify becoming a burglar? How does an alcoholic rationalize that "things will be different this time"? Morris gives a perceptive look into the human psyche with this book.
I started a book club once and this was the book that we started with.
It was awful.
We all struggled through it and I think only three of us finished it.
There were threats not to come back and I was banned from picking any further reading material for the group.
Nothing happy, nothing good, just a pathetic mess of characters making poor choices.
I'm all about poor choices - I make my fair share of them.
But I try to learn from them and move forward.
No forward movement in this book.
Everyone was stuck, even the peripheral characters.
This is another of my all-time favorite books. I've recommended this one to friends over the years--so heartbreakingly beautiful and well written. Leaves a memory on the heart that isn't easily forgotten.
Sam Fermoyle, Marie’s alcoholic ex-husband and father of her children, is often a sympathetic character, despite his shortcomings.Oprah.com says, “Songs in Ordinary Time is a masterful epic of the everyday, illuminating the kaleidoscope of lives that tell the compelling story of this unforgettable family.”I absolutely agree and found myself musing that, except for an accident of birth, any of us might find ourselves victims of alcoholic, vulnerable, struggling parents who never seem to catch a break.
The characters in this novel are facing bleak prospects, their plights hard and long...
no surprise; it is an Oprah pick after all.I hesistantly picked it up - 740 pages of bleakness is what I first thought.
What can I say, I've read enough of Oprah's picks to know that sometimes the journey she's recommended I embark on will leave me with feelings of hopelessness.
there is a bit of redemption in the end but the author is true enough to the characters to not squeeze an ounce of happiness into that ending.
is such a beautiful character...
wishing so hard for his mom's happiness.
The mom's character is heart-breaking...
I actually ended up liking this book --- although it ended abruptly.
It reminded me a lot of Carson McCullers or even a little Flannery O'Connor or Faulkner-like -- because it's a collection of these misfits --- the focus is on a family, but we also get glimpses of all the characters in this town.
It took me a long time to read the book, however.
The book's a little depressing.
I would recommend it as a good read -- It was an Oprah book several years ago and I had bought it and stuck it on my shelf.
Taken individually, our lives may seem routine and “ordinary”.
Connected with those around us, however, life is anything but ordinary.
This book highlights a period of time in one family’s life, and the community around them.
Just as in real life, what the family views as “ordinary” is actually a story filled with emotion and unexpected surprises.
The author does an excellent job creating well rounded characters, ones that are both loveable and unlikable, making them easily relatable to some friend or acquaintance in the reader’s life.
The book doesn’t make any attempts to sugar coat the aspects of daily life, and yet manages to reflect how extraordinary each individuals story can be.
Not a favorite.Every single one of these characters continually made the worst possible decisions at every opportunity. It became increasingly absurd that no one seemed to ever learn from their mistakes or to even recognize that their own poor decisions were to blame for their misery. The con-man was written very well- he came off as sleazy and slimy as he should have been. All of the characters were written really solidly, to be honest. It was just the constant, unfailing, pick-the-worst-choice-possible plot device that drove me nuts.
I'm cheating by putting this in my read shelf. I read...half of it...which was brutal. I've never been so bored and unmotivated to read anything for "pleasure" in my life. I'd prefer a root canal...at least at the end of the torture there's a constructive ending.
An Oprah book! A depressing dysfunctional 700+ pages. I have finally arrived at the point that I can say this has nothing to give me that will improve me and walk away.
Really well written but super depressing. Took me a long time to finish but it was like watching a train wreck and I couldn't stop.
Yikes, what a sad book. Sometimes the prose didn't really hold my attention, but this was one of those books where you have very strong emotions about all of the characters (of which there are many) and that emotion is predominantly pity. After banging my head into a wall for 740 pages, I can now move onto something lighter--both weight-wise and theme-wise.
For some reason, when I started this book, I checked out what other readers thought on Goodreads.
I don't usually do that, hoping to make my own decision about the book.
But this book had a somewhat low rating 3.69.
It seemed as if every review said: it is an incredibly depressing novel and it is an Oprah's Book Club book and she only picks incredibly depressing books.I said to myself, well that's silly.
Let's give it a try.
I'm now on page 165 and reluctant to pick it up.
I forgot to mention it has 740 pages.
It is incredibly depressing.
I really enjoyed this book. After reading the reviews I was not expecting much...just goes to show, everyone has different reading preferences. As you can see from my rating, I found this story very compelling and the characters very well developed.
Morris crafted the book in such a way as to not only write about the family at the center of the book, the Femoyles, but so artfully included so many other characters who inhabit the small town in 1960's Vermont.
I was so pleased that as I started reading the book that Morris' web pulled me into the fictional universe of Songs in Ordinary Time.
Some books I read have a character or two, if I am lucky, which is not only captivating but with each word I feel I am even more emotionally invested in that character in that fictional universe.
Boy did I have trouble with this book.
I had difficulty giving it a rating...
sometimes I just wish there were 1/2 stars because in reality I would have given it 3 and 1/2 stars- but ended up giving it 4.
I had a lot of problems with this book because I found it to be a completely difficult, yet gripping book to read.
This book was depressing and had me in a terrible mood throughout the whole time I was reading.
I ask this: does that make a good book?
this is a long ass book.
i traded a David Sedaris book that i had just finished for this one at a youth hostel while i was traveling.
there are over 2 dozen characters and many subplots to keep up on, so that got a bit confusing at times.
some of the subplots probably could have been left out, but it was also fun to see how many of the stories eventually connected to one another.
although, this book starts off slow, i did become quite engrossed in several of the dramas that take place in the two plus lbs of pages.
Many people and many stories that fit together to create a great tale. This could be a cautionary tale for desperate women and con men, putting men over your children and not paying attention to what they see. Such flawed characters but that was refreshing. We can all be naive, cruel, manipulative, everything that embarasses us in life is what makes us human. Lovely story and I'm glad I stuch through this thick sucker!
I'm giving up on page 58. Other readers seem to either love this book or hate it. There are too many sub-plots and characters here to keep them all straight. In the first 50 pages, there have to be 40 characters introduced and other than living in the same town, I can't see what relationship they have to the central family. And I can't identify with the two young boys who seem to be the main characters. Life is short - I'm moving on to another book.
