https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/53003.Our_Lady_of_the_Flowers
“The despondency that follows makes me feel somewhat like a shipwrecked man who spies a sail, sees himself saved, and suddenly remembers that the lens of his spyglass has a flaw, a blurred spot -- the sail he has seen.”  I think everybody who tries to write a review about Our Lady of the Flowers starts out confounded, befuddled, muddled as to where to start because for one thing Genet's writing style has jumbled up the coherent, organized part of your brain.I was fortunate that the edition I cho
I think everybody who tries to write a review about Our Lady of the Flowers starts out confounded, befuddled, muddled as to where to start because for one thing Genet's writing style has jumbled up the coherent, organized part of your brain.I was fortunate that the edition I chose to read included the Jean-Paul Sartre introduction.
Δημιουργός μιας δικής του κατηγορίας θεϊκών πλασμάτων που λατρεύονται και λοιδορούνται τόσο όσο διαρκεί μια ερωτική κορύφωση.Πλάσματα στολισμένα με ψεύτικα λουλούδια που μαραίνονται και πανάκριβα αρώματα που βρομάνε.
Πλάσματα ντυμένα με γυναικεία ρούχα και ψεύτικα κοσμήματα που γυαλίζουν σαν σπασμένα γυαλιά ποτηριών μέσα σε υπόγεια μπαρ απο φθηνά ποτά και σωματικά υγρά.
Ιστορίες που αρχικά ξεκινούν όμορφα και το τέλος δεν έρχεται ποτέ επειδή χάνει το δρόμο του μέσα σε λαβύρινθους επακόλουθων ιστοριών,παραληρηματικών συνειρμών και αδιάφορων ποιητικών απαγγελιών σε μια ελεγεία φιλοσοφίας,αγάπης και λύπης.
He takes all these Parisian homosexuals (his word), some of them evildoers -- murderers, thieves, prostitutes, assorted toughs -- though not necessarily evil people, it's just that like all of us they are capable of evil and from time to time actually commit it -- and he raises them to near saintly levels.
Jean-Paul Sartre in his introduction calls it a "masturbatory" novel undertaken simply to excite Genet during a long, boring incarceration at Fresnes Prison in 1942.
On the most immediate level one might declare that Genet's characters are never denied their fundamental humanity, or something equally grandiose.
So Jean Genet resides in the world of his obscene and sinful fantasies… What is involved for me who is making up this story?
Slowly displacing volumes of fetid air, cutting threads from which hang bouquets of feelings, seeing the gypsy for whom I am looking emerge perhaps from some starry river, wet, with mossy hair, playing the fiddle, diabolically whisked away by the scarlet velvet portiere of a cabaret.As a particularly vicious demiurge Jean Genet creates his own world which is even more nauseous and nefarious than the one he lives in… The motivation of behaviour and all the actions in this perverted world is meanness, avarice and lewdness.
But the language thing would be extra; the reason Genet gets a kids show is that the message of this book is the same as those shows': this message being the glorious imperative to use your imagination."Use your imagination!" When you think about it, it's a bit strange that there's such an emphasis on this in media for children, since they already are using their imaginations (or would be, anyway, if they weren't sitting in front of the TV).
We need other people's books because our brains are not enough, and our own imaginations are too feeble to invent worlds that will make ourselves free.
It's been weeks now, and I've been trying to figure out something, anything to say about this novel.
Honestly, I can't think of another text that is so completely disregards the reader—Genet makes no concessions, doesn't even pretend to create some kind of connection between character and reader; everything is on Genet's terms, and the reader can accept that or simply fuck off.
Oh, I can certainly pretend that being gay offers me some kind of "in," but that just as quickly unmasks me for what I am, a bourgeois queer as far removed from Genet's world as anything else.
Jean Genet, the author, is serving time in 1940s Paris, and whilst awaiting sentencing begins to write, all sorts, on the back of brown paper bags: and voila: Our Lady of the Flowers is born.
The skeleton of Our Lady is framed by the multiple narrative of ostensibly one character, Jean Genet, who morphs continuously into a drag queen Divine, and Darling, his pimp.
We’ve all heard of the good old prose poem, and Genet indulges duly in a nonpareil one page dream sequence.
One of these questions happens to be an existential epitaph comprising all the rest: what would you do if you found yourself alone in a prison cell, serving a long sentence and facing the shapeshifting horrors of isolation, alienation, physical deprivation and mental withdrawal?You could:1) commit suicide;2) go nuts;3) go nuts and commit suicide;4) rape your cellmate;5) rape your cellmate and kill him because the voice of God is calling from the toilet bowl and asking for blood;6) miscellaneous.As for me, I know all too well what I would do: I'd spend my days and nights thinking of all the lovers I've had since my teens.
Indeed, the narrator/author states that he has ‘raised egoistic masturbation to the dignity of a cult’ and lauds the ‘pleasure of the solitary, gesture of solitude that makes you sufficient unto yourself, possessing intimately others who serve your pleasure without their suspecting it.’ These ‘others’ are, in the main, pictures of hoodlums and murderers that he has taken from newspapers and pinned to the walls of his cell.It is no surprise, therefore, that Jean-Paul Sartre, who was a champion of the work, called it ‘the epic of masturbation.’ Yet this gives the impression that Our Lady of the Flowers is simply a record of Genet’s adventures in pleasuring himself, that it is a kind of wanking diary, but the reality is something more complex and wonderful.
Man mano che leggerete, i personaggi, anche Divine, e Culafroy, cadranno dal muro sulle pagine come foglie secche, per concimare il mio racconto.” Pubblicato nel 1942 in forma anonima e clandestina, ”Notre-Dame des.- Fleurs” è’ la celebrazione di un’epica omosessuale nella Parigi della fine degli anni ’30.Romanzo impudico e lirico la cui voce narrante è quella di un carcerato che trova sollievo nell’immaginazione.La fantasia però è mescolata al ricordo e così si confondono i contorni di ciò che è accaduto realmente e ciò che è finzione.“Impetuoso” è l’aggettivo che mi martella nella mente leggendo questa storia.Impetuoso per la passione carnale che l’autore lascia a briglia sciolta come qualcosa che non si può e non si vuole più trattenere.Una forza travolgente che sfugge dalle mani tanto che si confondono non solo i piani temporali ma lo stesso racconto si fonde con i ricordi di chi parla oppure con i sogni fatti sotto una rozza coperta del carcere.
Divine has had previous lovers like the young boy, Alberto and the black man, Gabriel but she feels that Darling is the best.
However, one day when Darling is about to turn 30, Darling goes home with another of his lover, Our Lady of the Flowers.
Hence, Our Lady's edge over Divine.French writer and an openly gay man, Jean Genet (1910-1986) wrote Our Lady of the Flowers(Notre Dame des Fleurs) while he was incarcerated in Paris prison for burglary.
There are some books that you just have to get out of the way of, to let their beauty remain uninterrupted by your critical inanities.
I’ll accomplish nothing by pointing out that people that have this filed under ‘erotica’ are clearly fucking insane; that if all you get out of Our Lady of the Flowers is Hot Gay Action (HGA), then you are clearly distracted by the word “cock" out of all proportion; that Genet’s prose is so nimble that it threatens to fly off the page at points; etc.
(See what I did there?)Read this single sentence and be Genet’s judge, jury, and executioner.
Sartre characterizes this text in the introduction as “an epic of masturbation” (2), “only one subject: the pollutions of a prisoner in the darkness of his cell” (3), which presents the primary structural difficulty in interpretation here—the modulation between the moments of the fictive Real metanarrative and the purported Imaginary sub-narratives therein.
(55) The self-denigration is premised upon a curious agambenian ‘sacredness,’ as with the blessed body, supra—but further proceeds from an ancient etymology: early 14c., "malformed animal or human, creature afflicted with a birth defect," from Old French monstre, mostre "monster, monstrosity" (12c.), and directly from Latin monstrum "divine omen, portent, sign; abnormal shape; monster, monstrosity," figuratively "repulsive character, object of dread, awful deed, abomination," from root of monere "warn" (see monitor (n.)).
I got lost and am certain I did not always understand but the book left me impressed with Genet's eye for details, humor, and poetry.
Like poetry, it should be read more than once; it's blunted characters and blurred identities fall like sunlight or shadows on whatever you as a reader bring.
This is not a celebration of gay or criminal lives, but a perspective that like any other includes joy and hardships, and is different enough to mistake for seduction when it is merely true to itself while asking for the same in return.Towards the end a single terrible act anchors the book in tragedy.
It was here, I had the hardest time and lost a lot of sympathy for Divine.
No comments until I have read this once again...
My loved ones will be those whom you would call "hoodlums of the worst sort."''I have already spoken of my fondness for odors, the strong odors of the earth, of the loins of Arabs and, above all, the odor of my farts, which is not the odor of my shit, a loathsome odor, so much so that here again I bury myself beneath the covers and gather in my cupped hands my crushed farts which I carry to my nose.''Our Lady never thought of anything, and that was what gave him the air of knowing everything straight away, as by a kind of grace.''At the reformatory, an inspector (he was twenty-five years old and wore fawn-colored leather boots up to his thighs which were no doubt hairy) had noticed the youngsters' shirttails were stained with shit.
Genet is a genious in his sensual descriptions of ruthless men. His attraction to crime and death equals his love for masculine beauty and sex. He wrote this book in jail, and in more than one way, this book released him. The first time i read it I was about twenty and it actually shook my (literary) world. He was so different from anything I'd read before (and i'd real lots of books before) that I compulsively read and reread it.
The best prison novel ever! Well, actually it's a piece of erotica from a genius writer. Jean Genet is one of the greats, because he can express suffering, joyment, and a world that is extremely eroticize. To go into his world is like having a feverish dream and realizing that your world that you work in can not possibly exist. Genet's world is much more real, dirty and very very beautiful.
There is the thread of a plot, but images and scenes wheel about, not entirely continuous.I got round to this now because I wanted to read Patti Smith's Just Kids - in it she mentions Genet literally about 30 times.
(All belonging to people who are more or less beautiful.) I've never stopped being shocked though, that people were still judicially beheaded in Western Europe in the twentieth century.To read Genet in a cheap edition with loads of typos, without ever having compared translations, seems true to the spirit of the thing, but this is also a book that's overdue for the full introduction and notes treatment.
i’d want to say that it was hard for me to finish reading this because i couldn’t stop masturbating but honestly i was masturbating because of something else.
i think the spate of masturbation which coincided with the reading was because i was having anxiety about my neighbor screaming, which did make it very hard to read the book and really enjoy it.
the last thing i read shares some similarities with genet—120 days of sodom—both french, incarcerated, perverted and canonical.
i want to find out what angela davis thinks about genet's writing.
I feel silly giving this stars ... it's less a work of art and more the darker parts of a man's living brain. As Sartre says in the intro: "This work of the mind is an organic product. It smells of bowels and sperm and milk."I liked this description of the pimp: "all and always hot muscle and bush".
Powerful work with sensual descriptions of even ordinary events. Considering his lack of education (left school at about 12 or so) it's a work of genius, and he is not fettered by conventional uses of narrative.
A bad choice of book.
This free-flowing, poetic novel is a largely autobiographical account of a man's journey through the Parisian underworld.
Written while he was in prison, it was largely completed in 1942.
But Genet never intended his work as mere pornography and later excised more graphic passages.
In November 1943, he sent a copy of the first printing to Marc Barbezat, publisher of the literary journal L'Arbalete, who published the book in 1944 and again in 1948.
The writing style and honest realism comes through and makes this an exciting read - a must for fans of Genet.
Almost every reader has trouble describing this book, no matter how they like it.
No book I’ve read engages the reader in such a way.Genet exerts striking authorial control.
Words generate their own reality, enough to transport an inmate beyond his cell walls and into a parallel universe “so perfect in its inevitability that this world has only to disappear.” We know Genet’s telling himself a story, yet we become fully involved.
As to the self-analysis, fans of Sartre will be amazed at degree of existentialism in Genet’s descriptions.
If asked to name the single greatest book I've read it would be Our Lady of the Flowers.
This novel purports to tell the story of a circle of pimps and transvestites in 1940's Paris.
That, however, is surface, and it is unfortunate that gay and feminist factions have appropriated Our Lady as a kind of political manifesto.
Genet himself stated that this was not his aim at all and that he only intended here to explore his love of language and metaphor.
I would not recommend this novel to the impatient, it is very difficult to get through.
I think this work exemplifies the difference between genius(Joyce) and vision (Genet).
Perhaps I just needed to be reading, at that point, something more narratively driven.
The sense of awe awarded figures like Divine and Our Lady, &co was evident, wonderful, now and again literally thrilling in a physical way.
But I ultimately felt that the book meandered in a way that didn't even seem to me to be a comment on meandering-ness, or some sort of experimental refusal of convention.
It just felt like Genet needed a solid editor.
I'd like to read something shorter of his in the original French soon.
Unique erotica, like no other book ever written. A convict in a French prison posts glamorous magazine pics of men on his cell wall and daydreams sex fantasies of them intermingled with fantasies of his fellow inmates. This is no gay porn Walter Mitty, though; you find yourself inhabiting an alternate universe much like Kenneth Anger’s short films made during the same period (World War II Nineteen Forties). Read this and feel your head explode!
Face-to-face with the desire to touch. The book is a gesture I hold between my fingers ... a moan for the sake of a gesture (or is it a death croak, la pètite morte?) The book is a gesture I hold between my teeth. Gnawing at the wound, mouth-born paroxysms of pain. I pry the shards from crevasses of molars. Regurgitated, spit-soaked, soured by the sanguine, the little shredded book falls from my mouth into the soil. Later, a paperwhite blooms beneath the snow.
Never thought I'd suggest that a novel devoted to praising penis should be adapted for Broadway, but here we are.
Fascinated to see what sapphic undertones you can wrench out of the depths of Jean Genet's dick-swinging fiesta." YEA.
That was pretty hard to do; the soundtrack to this text screams PENIS-PRICKS-STICKS.
(Somehow though, it's surprisingly NOT misogynistic, and almost HAWT, even, IMHO) Anyway, who knew that dicks and "Homoseckshuals" were so worthy of admiration?Genet captures the world of those "who are willing to jerk you off, but only with their feet" and speaks of *self-love* and bodily functions with a familiarity usually reserved for adolescent journals.
