https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/61963.Pegasus_in_Flight
I loved this book when I was young and read it at least a dozen times. But when I picked it up this time (years after I last read it), I was unpleasantly jolted by the unexamined assumptions McCaffrey makes about poverty and non-Western cultures throughout the book: these show up in her minor characters, her major characters, and her own writing. I have the impression now that the book was written in a rush, and certainly not to its credit.
With a plot all about young Talents stopping a child trafficking scheme, the book gets creepy when an older "good" man basically imprints on a 12yo. That he will wait for her to be older doesn't really change the fact that he's perving on a child. This is too disturbing to make this a good read, which is a shame since I ordinarily like McCaffrey's.
I'm not sure how many times I've actually read this one, but it's still a favorite!!
Early McCaffrey counts as comfort reading. This one's amusing, but sadly losing the spark it held for me in my childhood. In too many ways she only scratches the surface: of the underlying social issues, of the characters' pysches, and even of one of the major romances.
Fluffy to a fault, the future depicted in this work is simultaneously utterly terrifying and authoritarian, and that's the good guys.
The bad guys are worse.The book itself follows three main plot lines: Tirla, Retinger, and the forced labor building of a space station.
As usual, McCaffrey's villains are not only pedestrian and dull, they're so stupid that they kidnap psychic kids.
They really were stupid.) The other villain is just a stupid and demanding manager who should be assailable just because she's so incompetent, criminally mismanaging the construction of a space station.If this book isn't sounding very fun, it isn't, which is exactly my point.
This book takes place about sixty years after 'To Ride Pegasus.' Rhyssa Owens is now the director is the Eastern Parapsychic Center.
This story is more about two children that come under Rhyssa's tutelage: Tirla and Peter.
I thought the relationship that develops between Peter and Rhyssa was also touching.
The only things that sort of disturbed me was the relationship that sort of develops between Tirla and Sascha Roznine, the flatness of the antagonists and the 'perfection' of the Talented world.
Tirla is only twelve years old when she comes to the Center, while Sascha is a confirmed adult (I read him as early 30s).
On the one hand, this is a really fun, exciting story that gives a lot of agency to its teen/preteen protagonists (a paraplegic boy named Peter who turns out to be telekinetic, and a pre-teen girl named Tirla who has carved out a niche for herself with her telepathic gift for translation despite her "illegal" status as an excess child born in violation of strict population control laws) and overall I think this is the book in the trilogy that I tend to come back to.
I finished it, so I can't be too critical of this novel.
However, I have little good to say about Pegasus in Flight.To start there are what feels like twenty recurring characters, far too many for a book which, while one in a series, is the only one in which most of these characters appear.
Even those who should be main characters (Rhyssa, Peter, Sascha, Dave) feel distant, simply names on the page.I won't even get started on the relationship development in this book.
I'll just say that the first physical interaction between two main characters should not include one asking to marry the other.
He was proclaiming the virtues of a certain Golden Age science fiction writer (I won't say which) and how this man wrote great books for young girls who liked science fiction, to which I responded, in essence, "Maybe back in the day that was true, but in this age of Anne McCaffrey and Robin McKinley, no." Young me had better things to read, with heroines less trapped in hidebound gender roles and women of all ages doing interesting things - not just spunky preadolescent heroines who were inevitably going to age into simpering wives.
All of McCaffrey's books suffer from her lionization of beautiful, talented people with special destinies who are permitted to save (and sneer at) the common folk.
However, these characters are socialized by adults who reflect McCaffrey's unpleasant and jarring assumptions about people of color, poor people, and those artificially left without the magical talents she invented and depicted.What I loved about this book as a child was the depiction of a grim life in the urban projects known as the "Linears" where twelve year old Tirla survived on her wits without adult supervision by working as a freelance lookout, translator, and con man.
I read this a couple of times as a teenager, and it was reliable enough for those times when I just needed a fun, easy book to get through that I still had a copy on my shelf.
It's hidden by setting them off against a world government with very Soviet coercive trappings, but it's stunning to see the disregard for human dignity and autonomy that I completely glossed over as a teenager reading this outsider-wish-fulfillment fantasy.
I originally read this as a kid in the nineties, and I remember really liking it.
Class struggles were OK in the end so long as you could escape them by having the upper class take you under their wing and lift you into their world.
The thing that brought this up to a 3 for me instead of a 2 is twofold: First, it played positively on my personal nostalgia for my first read twenty-plus years ago, and second I did find the story compelling and exciting despite the significant problems in the framing.
Highly disappointing effort from a usually good writer. Who cares about these chracters? I sure didn't. I made the mistake of reading this book without reading the first, but I am not interested enough in these mutant characters and their ugly world to read any more of the series. The only good bit of writing was when one girl ate a fresh green pepper. If not for that passage, this book would get zero stars.
Great ReadJust finished reading the second in the talent series for the second time and still could not stop reading . Anne McCaffrey is one of my favorite authors her books have always kept me entertained.
Not a bad book but the characters in the Pern series work better for me.
It came out after I became an adult, had a good job, and could easily buy whatever I wanted, so it's been on my shelf forever - traveling across the country over 2,000 miles in various moves but I think I read it for the first time yesterday.
Lack of good job does have some pluses.I've been reading so much new stuff from urban fantasy, romance, self-published, and new writers, I had forgotten how layered Ms. McCaffrey would write her soft sci-fi books.
This second book is a novel that combines the stories of two exceptional and unique Talented children.
Sound familiar?The setting is an Earth bursting with overpopulation and wide gaps between the haves and the have nots.
The Talent are to play a part in building that platform but the woman in charge fails to understand how her methods and her personality are harmful to Talent.
Some of the names will sound familiar from The Talent #1, sort of "the next generation."You will see some these names return in subsequent books about The Talent as they move beyond Earth.
Plowed through most of this on the plane Sunday...great read though I'm missing the last one. And the intermediate one before the Rowan time wise...read the Rowan years ago (along with the next 3). Wish I'd kept them 'cause I'm tempted to read them all again since it's fresh in my mind, but probably won't.Interesting to see how the Earth has changed between the first book and this one. Not that you see lots of the changes, but there's enough you can see if you're paying attention.
What a wonderful book leading into the Rowan series! After being disappointed with the Tower and the Hive, I was leary of going back to the beginning, but now I am amazed that I had not heard anything on this book. After reading this book, I am really tempted to reread the Rowan and the rest of the series again...!!!
Am I “outgrowing” McCaffrey? I’ve loved her books for so long, and yet this reading fell kind of flat to me. I still do like her worldbuilding and plotting...maybe just looking for more finesse with language? Ah well. I’ll still re-read her books.
A fairly good story about kids with special powers, the people who want to use them selfishly, and those who want to direct them toward the good while also protecting them. Set in a very crowded, not-all-that-far future.
I liked this one a lot more than the first of this series. The first laid the groundwork..this one took off...so I guess it is aptly titled? I am certainly looking forward to the next one!!
As director of the Jerhattan Parapsychic Center, telepath Rhyssa Owen coordinated the job assignments for psychically gifted Talents. And though she had her hands full dealing with the unreasonable demand for kinetics to work on the space platform that would be humankind's stepping-stone to the stars, she was always ready to welcome new Talents to the Center. Feisty and streetwise, twelve-year-old Tirla used her extraordinary knack for languages to eke out a living in the Linear developments, w
As director of the Jerhattan Parapsychic Center, telepath Rhyssa Owen coordinated the job assignments for psychically gifted Talents.
Telepath Rhyssa Owen, a top official of the Center for Parapsychic Talents, must contend with the station's construction manager, who treats Talents brutally and otherwise discourages them from working for her.
Rhyssa Owen, telepathic granddaughter of Daffyd op Owen, is now director of the Center for Parapsychic Talents, a nonprofit organization that works for the betterment of humanity by predicting disasters, controlling crime, locating missing persons or things , and manipulating material , from heavy equipment to the microscopic.
The Center becomes involved with a ruthless head of construction who uses and abuses these talents in the dangerous task of building the first space platform.
Taking place about 80 yrs after To Ride Pegasus Rhyssa Owen, granddaughter of Daffyd op Owen, is now the Director of the Center for Parapsychic Talents on the North American East Coast.
When they finally find 14-yr-old Peter Reidinger in a hospital, paralyzed from the waist down as the result of an accident and realize he’s been boosting his kinetic talent with electricity they are staggered by the thought of his potential.In another part of the city Tirla is a 12-yr-old girl living in Residential Linear G.
When the Center and Law Enforcement and Order try to crack down on a child kidnapping ring in Linear G they discover Tirla and her unusual Talent.
(Gee, characters, maybe if these women had any economic options, they wouldn't need to sell their kids!)And this doesn't even go into some of the questionable plot developments, such as all the characters applauding a middle-aged man falling in love with a twelve-year-old who looks nine.
(I'm having horrible flashbacks to Damia!)But. What I still love is pre-pubescent Tirla scrambling through the slum ducts and playing all sides against one another with a mercenary zeal.
Despite some questionable quirks, the core elements -- the unionized Talents, crippled Peter, and scrappy Tirla -- hang together in a relentless (if brainless) plot.
And I really love Tirla.
I just read this darling book again.
I love the boy and girl protagonists in this book.
I first read this book as a teenager, and this is why it holds so much power over me.
The last couple of chapters are lackluster.
The penultimate chapter is a showdown between two characters that are quite tertiary and I struggled to care about the outcome.
And the final chapter could have been a bit more upbeat AND better crafted.
Again, though, I love this book, and I'm sure I'll read it again.
The two main characters in this story, twelve-year-old Tirla and fourteen-year-old Peter, have unique talents that are fascinating to read about.
The drawback in this story, however, is that the stories of Tirla and Peter are completely discrete for a long period of time until the storylines join, and it felt like I was reading two different stories (which I was, I guess)… this is one of those books that I picked up for the cover and the author, and my expectations exceeded reality.
Rhyssa is the director of the Talent training center and happens across Peter, a young boy with powerful abilities but without the use of his legs.
She also finds a 12 year old girl with no identity since she was born illegally and roams the streets doing odd jobs outside of the law but with a very unique talent.
Rhyssa must help these two learn to use their abilities while managing a very bellicose project manager demanding more Talents for her construction project.
To top it off, someone is stealing illegal children for sinister uses and the Talents are needed to get to the bottom of it.
The talents are much more established in the workforce and highly coveted at this point.
The talent genes have been able to spread enough to begin to bring about new talents that the "experts" do not know how to handle.
When these new talents are discovered they are handled with great care and enthusiasm.The second novel introduces the reader to two young talents that need the talented community as much as the community needs them.
The reader becomes involved in the two youngsters following their highs and lows.A great follow up to the sort of slow first novel.
I highly recommend!!
Her own eldest brother was sold to traffickers when he was old enough and she is all too aware of the future facing some amongst her chronological peers.Peter, paralyzed by a falling wall, develops a kinetic Talent to cope with the inability of his body to move.
He becomes one of the first kinetics to draw on power sources to augment his talent - possibly a forerunner to The Rowan of The Tower and the Hive series (a short story of which was in Get off the Unicorn).A fascinating read, set perhaps 70 years in the future in a world similar and yet startlingly different from our own.
