https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/64416.The_Good_Woman_of_Setzuan
*Read for class*
And he may have been one of the most innovative and influential playwrights of the 20th century, but Brecht’s main concern was getting an audience to think first, rather than engaging them easily on an emotional level.Taking you inside the too often unexamined lives of common folk, petty criminals and outcasts living out a life of brutalising poverty is nothing new to him.
She is the only one in Szechwan who offers the Gods a place to stay after Wang assures them that Szechwan is just the kind of town that will refute their notion that a good person is a rare thing.
The world we are introduced to in The Good Person of Szechwan is a grim one, and the premise is almost allegory: Is it possible to be a good and selfless person when everyone else is bad?
If we can find only one good person, a person that is able to live a decent life, they tell us, then the world is saved.
As she gets exploited time and time again, Shen Te needs to deal with it somehow.This is when she (view spoiler)["invents" a cousin, Shui Ta, to swoop in and take care of all the dirty work.
دوستانِ گرانقدر، این نمایشنامه از 215 صفحه تشکیل شده است و با وجودِ سادگی، نکاتِ بسیاری را در خود گنجانده است.... شخصیتِ اصلی داستان، دختری تنها و بی خانواده به نامِ <شن تن> است، که از رویِ ناچاری و نداری، روی به خودفروشی آورده است ... داستان از آنجایی آغاز میشود که از بینِ خدایان، 3 تن به زمین می آیند تا بلکه بتوانند از میانِ انسانها، شخصی نیکوکار و خوش رفتار برگزینند.... خدایان در ایالتِ "سچوان" به آب فروشی به نامِ <یانگ> بر میخورند و <یانگ> که انتظار خدایان را میکشیده است و
امّا بسیاری هستند که از رفتار و مهربانی او سواستفاده کرده و او را به مرزِ بدبختی و ورشکستگی می رسانند‎در این میان شخصیتی به نامِ <شوی تا> در داستان نمایان میشود، که او را با عنوانِ پسر عمویِ <شوی تا> میشناسیم...
او نیز همچون دیگران، از خویِ پاکِ دختر سواستفاده کرده و به <شن تن> وعدهٔ ازدواج میدهد...البته به شرطی که <شن تن> پانصد دلار برای وی فراهم کند تا او بتواند به استخدامِ شرکتِ پُستِ هوایی، درآید‎عزیزانم، بهتر است خودتان این داستان را بخوانید و از سرنوشتِ این دخترِ بیچاره آگاه شوید‎آیا به راستی در این دنیایِ بی رحم، جایی برایِ نیکوکارها وجود ندارد!؟...
If I didn't love Yang Sun, it'd be bearable.[A pause, then CLARKE KENT gets to his feet and sings]The Ballad of the Overlooked Nice GuyShe just takes me for grantedActs like I'm not thereWell it's breaking my heart an'It's hard not to care.I'm just the overlooked nice guyThe overlooked nice guyThe--SHEN TE: Wait a minute.
He is smartly dressed and acts like he owns the place]SHUI TA: So my cousin tells me things aren't working out with the Lane dame.CLARK KENT: Really, I'd rather not--SHUI TA: Look buster, face facts.
CLARK KENT: Wait, what are you--SHUI TA: Come on, it's obvious.
Der gute mensch von sezuan = The Good Person of Szechwan = The Good Woman of Setzuan, Bertolt BrechtThe Good Person of Szechwan (German: Der gute Mensch von Sezuan, first translated less literally as The Good Woman of Setzuan) is a play written by the German theatre practitioner Bertolt Brecht, in collaboration with Margarete Steffin and Ruth Berlau. The play was begun in 1938 but not completed until 1941, while the author was in exile in the United States. The play is an example of Brecht's "no
The play is a parable set in the Chinese "city of Sichuan".عنوانها: زن نیک سچوان؛ زن خوب ایالت سچوان؛ نویسنده: برتولت برشت؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: سال 1975 میلادیعنوان: زن خوب ایالت سچوان؛ نویسنده: برتولت برشت؛ مترجم: مهدی زمانیان؛ نشر: شیراز، کتابفروشی زند، 1353، در 216 ص، موضوع: نمایشنامه، ادبیات آلمانعنوان دیگر: زن نیک سچوانزن نیک ایالت سچوان،‌ گرچه از لحاظ فرم با اکثر آثار برشت تفاوت دارد اما میتوان آن را نمود اندیشه ی ایشان نیز دانست.
برشت جایی میگویند: «کسی که میخندد هنوز خبر وحشتناک را نشنیده است.» شاید «خبر وحشتناک» ‌تم اصلی همین نمایشنامه ایشان باشد اما به هر حال مردم سالهاست که این خبر را شنیده اند و هنوز میخندند.
I want to go with the one I love.
I do not want to calculate the cost.
I do not want to think about whether it's good.
I do not want to know whether he loves me.
I want to go with whom I love.Brecht is brutal here, situating his play in China, dangling the Gods who swing between Divine Indifference and Hypocrisy and filling the ranks with all the avarice and sloth that floats from our unctuous species.
One came imagine Brecht seething.Sexually frank but lacking overt violence (with one exception) this play becomes a lumpen comedy of manners.
I read this in school.That's a long time ago, and yet, I remember it better than many novels I read last year (or last month).
I remember it despite the fact that I must have had a typical teenage brain at the time.
It is just such a fundamental truth of injustice that it remained with me until this day, consoling me when I am frustrated, reminding me that at least the annoying topic made it into the realm of art.If you are good, you are exploited.
That is the message, and I don't think anyone is free from the experience of trying to make things work better, only to see some opportunistic people step in and take advantage of the situation.
Da es eine Schullektüre ist, kann ich das Werk eigentlich nicht unvoreingenommen bewerten :D Allerdings gehört es doch zu den besseren Werken, die wir im Deutschunterricht behandelt haben. Inklusive einer Wendung im letzten Viertel, der mich als unaufmerksamen Leser von den Socken gehauen hat
2.5 stars.In as far as studying this play while placing it in a particular historical and political context is concerned, I realise its significance, but otherwise this just wasn't for me. In my opinion Brect's Mother Courage is far, far better.
I really like this book.
Sometimes when it seems to me that I've done something wrong I remember these two characters - Shen De and Shui Da. Brecht shows us that a person cannot be only a good man or only a bad man.
When Shen De does something generous and fogets herself doing positiv things, she suffers.
Other people are becoming bad, cruel and insult her.
When Shui Da does a bad thing, others just hate him.
To my mind, the main idea of this book is that making a compromise is the best way of solving problems and behaving in the society.

One of the best books I've ever read.
it's a pretty famous play. i recommend acting it out with friends, not just reading it.
Every character was annoying as heck in here. I just wanted to yell at them to get off their butts and do something DAMMIT. But I suppose that was Brecht's intention. Sigh. Effective, but still infuriating.
"Göz yumma ezilmesine, ne kendinin ne de başkalarınınMutlu kıl herkesi, kendini de unutma,İyi olan budur işte!"Sezuan'ın İyi İnsanı, benim okuduğum ilk Bertolt Brecht oyunu, geç kaldığımın farkındayım Brecht ile tanışmak için.
Bu arayışta Sezuan'a yolları düşen Tanrılar, geceyi geçirmek üzere bir yer arıyorlar; ancak Sezuanlı bir seks işçisi olan Shen Te dışında kimse onlara kapısını açmıyor.
Tanrılar, Shen Te'nin bu iyiliğini ona bir miktar para vererek ödemek istiyorlar.
Eline bir miktar paranın geçtiğini duyan gören herkes Shen Te'nin başına üşüşüyor ve Shen Te de kimseye kıyamadığı için herkese yardım etmeye çalışıyor; fakat kendi durumunun giderek kötüleştiğini de görüyor.
خدایان یا فرشتگان که به منظور یافتن انسان های "نیک" بر روی زمین آمده اند، غرضشان یافتن دلیل منطقی برای خلق بشر است اما از همان ابتدا روشن می شود که در شهر سه چوان هم انسان های نیک، پیدا نمی شوند.
کسی حاضر نیست به خدایان که از آزمایش همه جای جهان، خسته به این شهر رسیده اند، جایی برای اقامت بدهد.
یکی از کارگران صدای گریه ی شن ته را می شنود اما شویی تا نمی تواند شن ته را حاضر کند (چون خود اوست).
اتاق از مردم خالی می شود و شوئی تا، واقعیت را برای قضات فاش می کند.
He who gives help to the lost is lost for his own part  Such great lines.  "Your original order, to be good while yet surviving, split me like lightning into two people.I cannot tell what occured: Goodness to others and to myself could not both be achieved.”  The play was extremely depressing in the beginning but gradually it grew on me. The drudgery of society and it's people is portrayed brilliantly. A "good" woman who is forced to survive through any means necessary.Shen Teh's growth as an i
"Your original order, to be good while yet surviving, split me like lightning into two people.I cannot tell what occured: Goodness to others and to myself could not both be achieved.” 
The play was extremely depressing in the beginning but gradually it grew on me.
The drudgery of society and it's people is portrayed brilliantly.
A "good" woman who is forced to survive through any means necessary.Shen Teh's growth as an individual was interesting to watch.
Of course if you want a happy ending, you should keep in mind it is a modernist play.
Otherwise it is a short and interesting read.
Not as boring as I thought first. One of the best plays I had to read at school. I liked the irony and the way it maked me think about different topics.
"When I was little once I was carrying a bundle of sticks and fell. An old man helped me up and even gave me a penny. I have often thought of it. Those who have least to eat give most gladly. I suppose people just like showing what they are good at; and how can they do it better than by being friendly? Crossness is just a way of being inefficient. Whenever someone is singing a song or building a machine or planting rice it is really friendliness."
damn
Read for school
The gods repeatedly complain that Shen Te is the only good person they can find, which implicitly means (especially for Brecht, who wanted audiences to see their own social/political/economic world represented in the play) that the very people tho whom the plan is appealing are the bad people.
And what's odd about the final judgment is that even if Shen Te ha done bad things as Shui Ta, she still remains good.
Shen Te makes Jean Valjean look like a dream: can't you both be rich and good?
Another thing: which kind of goodness is more useful?
My head hurts with all this thinking.I must start reading up on Marx as Brecht was a proud Marxist from what I've heard.
A Marxist reading might prove helpful in understanding this play, I hope.
But one thing that seems clear as daylight: Brecht was not a religious man and was highly sceptical of Christian theology (which isn't a big surprise, him being a Marxist and all).
not sure how it happened on my bookshelf, and have mixed feelings and intuitions about how it got there.
surely it was planted there, by an ex-partner who was both, amazed and annoyed by my optimism and hope for others.
i was amused with the other actors' range of perceptions of the character, Shui Ta. moreover, i appreciated that he was written as a close comparison to Shen Ta, but with wider (if accepted) social implications.
in my view, Shen Ta and Shui Ta are both fruits in a salad with nuts :)
When my boyfriend and I were talking about books, he was more than shocked to find out, that I haven't read anything from Brecht so far, since he is his favorite author.
So I went straight to the library and got myself a copy of The good Woman of Setzuan.
And wow how I regret that I didn't read anything from him sooner!
This play is now one of my favourites!
Brecht is absolutely amazing and in my eyes a complete genius.
The play is about the question whether and how a person can be good in a capitalist world.
Had to read it in school in 13th grade and actually read it. It was quite funny in an unwanted way I think (some formulations). At the beginning easy to read but as it went on it got more confusing because of the many different characters and what they really wanted and only pretended to want. Plus we've talked about in school for about 20 weeks too long, it just got annoying. Brecht himself is quite an interesting topic though.
Schoolreading.Okay, I'll admit that I always found Brecht boring in school. It wasn't because of the content, no, it was because he was so schematic. You could literally analyse his works to death, and that's exactly what we did with this one. Well, at least I aced all the tests about "Der Gute Mensch von Sezuan". Analysing things to death was kind of my specialty. Guess that's why I became a lawyer. ;-)
2.5 stars. I like the concept, but not so much the ending. The characters weren't interesting to me, and I just wanted to slap most of them. However I like what this play tried to do, and I don't regret having read it, even if it was for uni.
Written in the midst of the Great Depression, this Brecht play comments on the way Capitalism makes goodness an impossibility.
