https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1605370.The_First_And_The_Last
Adolf Galland, jedan od najuspješnijih njemačkih pilota-lovaca u drugom svjetskom ratu, prvi general lovačkog zrakoplovstva, i jedan od prvih koji je letio i ostvario zračnu pobjedu na mlaznom lovcu, u svojoj ratnoj autobiografiji iznosi svoje viđenje rata u zraku od Španjolske do zadnjih dana Reicha.
Iako knjiga nije u potpunosti subjektivna, što bi bilo i previše za očekivati, kritična je i prema njemčakoj i prema savezničkoj politici zračnog ratovanja, i oslobođena svih natruha nacističkog apologizma, za razliku od recimo Hitlerovog omiljenog Stuka pilota Rudela i njeogve biografije.
Iz prve ruke iznosi sve probleme taktike, strategije i proizvodnje njemačkih lovačkih zrakoplova ovog perioda.Za ljubitelje Drugog svjetskog rata u zraku, svakako preporučeno štivo
I have a lot of respect for Adolf Galland.
The first and the last describe the good parts of this book.
I really wanted to hear more personal accounts that Galland had with the Condor Legion and his personal experiences with all of the aircraft that he piloted, but instead I got a lot of complaining about the high command and I really hate to say it and it probably wasn't his fault, but excuses.
I still greatly respect Adolf Galland but working for Hitler and Göring definately had its disadvantages, to say the least!
The parents of a colleague of mine shared a table with Adolph Galland sometime during the 1970's at a reunion of fighter pilots.
Adolph Galland became somewhat of a celebrity after WWII.
Galland's memoir does not focus on his impressive string of arial victories, but instead, concentrates on his time as General of the Fighters and his conflict with Hitler and Goering on how the air war should have been conducted.
In general, Galland represents the Nazi high command as irrational, basically disconnected from reality.
A classic, along with Rudel's memoire, from the Luftwaffe side of the war.
For such a gifted pilot and warrior, Galland is a terribly inept writer.
His egotistical self-promotion left no room for the kind of details his readership - pilots and/or history buffs - would find requited in other war diaries.
His agenda appears to be to quantize the folly of Allied strategic bombing - an obvious conclusion already known to anyone familiar with the more didactic treatments by Joseph Heller or Kurt Vonnegut.So sad that no one rescued what was in Galland's head for those of us thirsting for hands-on, pilot-savvy anecdotes from flying 109s, 190s, and 262s.
I thought this was a great book. It really gave me an understanding of what it was like for the German fighter pilots of WWII from the beginning to the end of the war. No Hitler. No Nazis. Just the story of the pilots flying in the war.
A very interesting account of Gallands time through the war years
Read this book ages ago, but still recommend it to anyone wanting a first hand account of the aerial war in world war 2.
A fascinating inside look at the chaos and poor decisions inside the third reich. Must read for anyone interested in this period.
This means that, even if he wasn't aware of the atrocities of the regime he supported at the time, he certainly knew the story by the time this book was published.
And I accept that the Luftwaffe (and particularly the fighter arm) were generally not directly involved, but I find Galland's attitude curious, to say the least.
However, early in the book Galland describes Hitler and Goering as lucid, calm, intelligent, and supportive.
The other book, a general history of the air war in the west, is terribly slanted, ignores many hard facts, is not particularly well-written, and is certainly not a scholarly work.
This book is not at all what I expected. I was hoping for anecdotal tales of Galland’s Luftwaffe experiences and colleagues. Instead, this reads as more of a political history of the Luftwaffe during WWII and (a few moments aside) is pretty dry. If you want something more anecdotal have a look for Johannes Steinhoff’s memoirs which are much more riveting and readable.
Account of the rise and fall of the Luftwaffe fighter forces. Duh -- wouldn't need to read anything beyond the title to figure that out, would you?Interesting. Hitler blamed for lots of the problems -- Goering at fault, too.Not sure what edition -- the one I read was 25 percent longer than this.
An excellent book. I last read it more than 35 years ago and I value it even more now. It is an excellent view of the air war in the ETO from the "other side" of the street. I recommend it to all students of World War II. You will be impressed.
Drat! This paperback ends abruptly at the point Galland's jet is shot down in April, 1945. If/when I join the age of digital books, I'll see it through.
Easy read, Galland is a great warrior. Chivalry and honor at it's best.
It was interesting to read of the progress of WW2 from the point of view of a German. I found it fascinating.
Outstanding !A insightful story of the rise and fall of the Luftwaffe and the man who realized what could of been a great Air Force if things had changed.
Galland makes many interesting points about bomber warfare and how it was ineffective for the Germans in the Battle of Britain while for the allies it did become effective but with German defences German industrial war production actually peaked in September 1944.
Speer is seen as a man who appreciated the importance of air defence and fighters in order to keep German industrial production going.For anyone interested in WWII the book is definitely worth reading.
A first-hand account written by a man who was part of the upper echelons of the WW2 German Luftwaffe and also at the forefront of the air war over Britain and mainland Europe.
I found it fascinating how much of a hindrance the mindset of Hitler was against the defence of the German Reich, thus allowing Allied air forces to gain the upper hand and eventual air superiority over Europe.
While reading Galland's account I came to respect the man and his honor as a soldier.
A recommended read for anyone interested in hearing of the Luftwaffe perspective of World War II.
Galland is brutally honest with his experience of the many people involved in rise and collapse of Germany.
Garland's writing is critical of Nazi Germany with succinct descriptions of people and events that made up the World War II era.It's not all dry and boring as Galland also shares some humorous moments in this serious part of history.
To this point Garland's meeting with the R.A.F. Wing Commander Douglas Bader is worth the read alone.Recommended to any WWII history, or flying, buff.
A competent but rather dry history of the Luftwaffe fighter arm during World War Two. I found the personal feelings of the author, however understandable, got in the way of understanding his points.
I suggest 'The Luftwaffe War Diaries' as a better general purpose work.
However there are valuable lessons to be learned about concentrating forces on strategically meaningful objections, about the errors (on both sides) caused by thinking the war was about to be won and not following through, and especially about how delaying development of technical breakthroughs can render them too little, too late.
This book is an absolute must for readers interested in World War Two. It is the autobiography of a great pilot and patriot, and a wonderful human being. He respected the pilots he was having to shoot down and treated prisoners very well. He was in the dog fights over the English Channel and later became the youngest general in the air force. The catch is, he was fighting for Germany. The preface to the book was written by Bader, England's most famous ace. The two of them had great respect for one another, during and after the war.
For such a brilliant pilot and warrior, Galland is a terribly inept writer. His goal appears to have been to prove the pointlessness of strategic bombing, solid cases against which had already been more engagingly made by theater contemporaries Joseph Heller and Kurt Vonnegut.Reading at times like an Excel spreadsheet, at others like the who-begat-whom of the book of Genesis, Galland's choice not to work with a competent writer has forever lost the grit, texture, and technical detail of flying the world's most advanced airplanes in that war forever.
This book details Adolf Galland's helm as Major-General of the Luftwaffe. Galland's frustration at Hitler and Goering's ineptitude pours forth, and I found myself almost feeling sorry for Germany in the final days. Galland gives his impressions of all facets including his dogfights against the English and the Americans, and his experiences in the jetfighter, Me-262. Not to be missed by fans of Wolrd War II or air combat.
Brilliant reading. Galland explains so much in this book and offers insights on things in the war that he himself experienced firsthand and had years to ponder and think about before writing this. The Luftwaffe failure in the BoB is explained well and also the friction in the high command that gradually got worse and worse. Hitler's destruction of the wondrous Me-262 is well described. Exciting reading, well written by someone who was there.
Adolf Galland fue el General del Cazas de la Luftwaffe. As con 108 derribos confirmados, respetado por amigos y enemigos, y que tuvo una larga y feliz vida después de la guerra. Su autobiografía es una interesante visión al "otro lado" de la contienda, y muestra el punto de vista de un soldado profesional y general sobre las decisiones e idioteces de Goering y Hitler. Muy, muy interesante autobiografía. La recomiendo 100%.
An excellent insight into german high command and their strange decisions concerning the luftwaffefrom someone who should know.not another fighters ace I'llbut detailed analysis by a Luftwaffe Lt. General who knew Hitler and Goring well. I conclude that Hitler was the Allies best weapon!
The bravest and the bestGarland is one pilot that I would love to go one on one with. I can only imagine how naturally good he must be. He started fighting in Spain and kept the no 1 position until he walked away as one of the first jet pilots. It was flying from the German perspective, well worth five stars.
Not what you thinkNot quite a fighter pilot war story since Galland was promoted and assigned to staff. Rather he discusses the strategic aspects of the war in the air. Still an excellent book I highly recommend.
I enjoyed this book. I would have given it a higher rating if he had focused more on the pilots and battles and left out as much of the politics. We all know how bad Goering and Hitler screwed up with the Luftwaffe, I wanted to read more about the early days and the fighting.
