https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/102748.Rules_for_Radicals
From the opening appeal to Lucifer through it's "the ends justify the means" attitude it turns my stomach.A quote: "Means and ends are so qualitatively interrelated that the true question has never been the proverbial one, "does the End justify the Means?" but always has been "Does this particular end justify this particular means?"" page 47 in ISBN# 978-0-679-72113-0 (from back cover of book) In spite of the reference to Thomas Paine at this book's opening the writer had little or no idea of what this country stands for and was meant to be.
Believed by some on the far right as the Gospel according to St. Stalin of the Church of Satanic-Marxism-Leninism.To be fair, it does hold interesting discussions of community organization, communication, across class and racial bounds to demand reform.
It is perhaps the only way to win.Of course, any good little boy or girl who has read their Robert Caro (or god forbid, entered the system) knows that power and power struggles are everything in politics.
I accept it, but I do not pretend to love it.And what happens to the radical or the organizer once they gain power?
Of course, power struggles are always an ugly thing.

I read this book, because I had to try to understand how the Liberal mind works.
Alinsky does a great job exposing it.
Alinsky's philosophy is dirty, violent, extreme Left-wing.
According to Alinsky, the ideal activist has no scruples: "He asks of ends only whether they are achievable and worth the cost; of means, only whether they will work.
To say that corrupt means corrupt the ends is to believe in the immaculate conception of ends and principles.
The real arena is corrupt and bloody." Good old radicalism from the Left, in all its ugliness.
Following the path of all relativistic philosophies, Alinsky contradicts himself constantly throughout the book.
Alinsky encourages manipulation of communities for the "good of the people".
Overall, an inside look at how the Far Left has been able to slowly shift the public perception of this country further in line with their own views.
Sadly for them, public perception does not always reflect the reality of the situation and in the end this book simply advocates tactics designed to induce chaos over constructive social community-building.
Well Alinsky, based on your stupid logic, the “Have” is also justified in killing the “Have Not” in defense.
His stupid logic also says nothing about what happens when the “Have Not’s” become the “Have’s.” If those at the bottom of society become the leaders and the leaders become the bottom of society, they are then justified in killing the new leaders.
He fails to understand most injustice in the world is due to evil dictatorial and socialist leaders like him controlling a majority of countries.This book is so full of satanic logic and stupidity it is difficult to read.
But then, his hopes for the shareholder proxies movement is much more radical than responsible investment, and perhaps the problem is just that the latter was co-opted and transformed into the former.I also feel that underlying Alinsky's whole outlook are patriarchal and hierarchical values, and a potentially harmful instrumentalist reasoning which, while perhaps realistic in its view of why humans often act in some of the negative ways that we do, obscures the source of much of the goodness in us.
He rails against people who get bogged down in academic discussions of 'means and ends,' but that's no reason to get sloppy with one's thinking.
Rules for Radicals captures a lot of his thinking on how to organize people, much of which is still valuable.
The first time I read this book was when I was sixteen.
Since then, I have given away and replaced the book several times.
Alinsky, who was active in both Chicago (where I lived for over ten years) and Rochester, NY (where I grew up and live now), was a terrific community organizer.
The language is a little dated - definitely sexist by today's definitions - but it's a great reminder to those of us who get discouraged about fighting on unlevel playing fields.
The playing fields have never been level, and yet average citizens can gain political power if they only get organized.
He describes here the qualities it takes to be a good community organizer, the way to communicate with your people (of the utmost importance), and the tactics to use against the Establishment (whom he calls "the Haves").
What major company in America would allow this sort of thing today, what with the Patriot Act and all to hide behind, even if the community groups could scrape together the required travel funds?Don't get me wrong--I liked the book, and I like how Alinsky describes the mechanics of community organization, its strengths and its weaknesses.
I've been meaning to get around to Alinsky for years, and am so glad I finally borrowed a copy of this book from a friend.
The thing I appreciate most about this book is that he is so practical.
I especially enjoyed Alinsky's discussion about the rules behind the question of whether means justify an end.
in action, one does not always enjoy the luxury of a decision that is consistent both with one's individual conscience and the good of mankind.
Action is for mass salvation and not for the individual's personal salvation.
So when Obama makes some of his outrageous statements, the most famous probably being the one about "bitter" people "clinging to guns and religion", it's not hard to make the connection.This book, I think, also explains why Obama sat in Rev. Wright's church for 20 years.
Alinsky has little respect for religion, believing that practitioners are largely hypocrites and that established faiths exist to keep the status quo.(This dovetails with his disdain for the middle class, much of which is churched, and this was certainly even more true in 1971 when this book was published.) But he did work with religious leaders on an ad hoc basis.
Written by a rabid political organizer who cut his teeth organizing in the Depression-era south-side Chicago who makes no secret of the fact that he views a worker's revolution as inevitable and something that leftists should constantly work toward, and given that President Obama got his start organizing with the late Alinsky's group back in the 80s, it's understandable why Gingrich started slinging around Alinsky's name in the Republican debates.
I have a couple.He makes an understandable point that groups you are organizing with need a win from time to time to minimize activist burnout and to show that change is possible.
Alinsky was the left side of a two headed system approved Jewish Hydra operation out of Chicago.
So their little globalist Marxist operation was quite succesful no doubt.
Alinsky for all his notoriety for rabblerousing really pushed the idea that "radicals" should infiltrate the system and then take it over.
He also pushes the idea of ridiculing and mocking your enemies.
This is one thing the left has over the right big time.
You wouldn't even have to be a little Marxist globalist lowlife like Alinsky was to use them either.
He teaches how to implement your radical agenda without using radical tactics, how to disarm with words and media as opposed to arms and Utopian rhetoric.What's most impressive about Alinsky is how his books become more relevant with each technological advancement.
Rules for Radicals was written long before the internet, cable news, social networking, blogs or cell phones.
Yet, if one wants to truly take advantage of those tools, there is not a better handbook for getting the most out of them.At the end of life, Alinsky came upon one for of social protest and leverage that has gone underappreciated: the use of stock proxies.
Alinsky is a social worker who lived and worked in the projects of Chicago in the 1960's. A community activist Alinsky practiced and wrote about non-violent means of confrontation to faciiltate system changes and improve individuals lives. His work, and this book, inspired my own decision to become a social worker for the next thirty years of my life. Malcolm Watts BA MSW Visit my writing website:  www.authorsden.com/malcolmwatts MY NOVEL, POETRY, STORIES AND OPINIONS
Did the fight take only place in late night college campuses and never leave?(Chapter: The Purpose) "A major revolution to be won in the immediate future is the dissipation of man's illusion that his own welfare can be separate from that of all others." I agree with this, but how can anyone honestly think that the Tactics help achieve this goal?I am pro-community organization.
Alinsky is very dismissive of the Indian's statements, which I think had meaning, by making even more universal and abstract statements like "mankind from time immemorial has always organized, regardless of what race or color they In the Beginning were, whenever they wanted to bring about change".
He spends a lot of time explaining how to gain the trust of the community that one is trying to organize.
He understands what motivates people--the communities he organizes and the groups he is trying to change.
Suddenly the holders of the cultural purse will find money for arts for the disadvantaged youth.I could tell ACORN leaders had read this book.
Thanks ACORN for helping to topple our financial industry--you weren't the biggest factor but this is not right.Alinsky also talks about unions--not just for the trades as had pretty much been the case when Alinsky started organizing.
Alinsky was a tactical genius, but when it gets to foundational issues he is beyond sophomoric. A hard leftist, who did not know where he was going or why, but he was the kind of driver who knew how to make good time.

In our modern era of letter-writing campaigns, call-in campaigns, and even protests, we can forget that "realistic radicals" have a much broader arsenal of rhetoric and media-grabbing actions (that can be more effective and more fun for their cadres to participate in).Alinsky sets out a moral foundation that holds no purpose greater than the pursuit of a participatory democracy.
Other than that, he suggests all morals are relative, citing several historical examples of movements that claimed the moral high ground, but were willing to compromise depending on the stakes.From there he uses many anecdotes to basically lay out his "rules" for effective organizing (that is, goal oriented, realistic means to take power from the "Haves" and to EMPOWER to the "Have-Nots").
Newt Gingrich is criticizing Barack Obama by associating him with Saul Alinsky. Read this book if you want to know what Mr. Alinski thought and how he organized people without power to make their lives better. I am not sure if Saul said, "Power to the people!" but I am sure that is what he meant. This book is a classic for community organizing.
Rating this GOOD is not accurate. But it is a Must Read unless what's going on now in America os not affecting you, or you don't care.This is a reread from years ago in my social activist days. Amazing how one can see these techniques in use if our eyes are open.
This is just one of those books that people who are young and on fire should read. It is inspiring and thought provoking if not a little contreversial at times- especially when it was published I imagine.
I remember hearing about Alinsky for the first time years ago when I read Dreams From My Father by Barack Obama, when Obama referred to the fact that he had learned from Alinsky and been influenced by him when he worked as a community organiser in Chicago.
I recall having my interest piqued because his work was described as being in the line of Machiavelli and Nietzsche, which is a very unusual thing to hear about a book on political organising.
Once again I can't help but be struck by the fact that a book published in 1971 illustrates that we are having the same issues and debates today and little has changed.
Surprisingly full of wacky hijinks, this book still manages to be a fundamentally rationalist primer on how to bring people together, find out what they want, and how to get them to work together to get it. Entertaining and educational.
This challenge struck home with me and inspired me to invest more effort into connecting to local activists and engaging in direct action.On the other hand, I found Alinsky's discussion of ends and means rather troubling.
From the former perspective, I contend that certain means are never justified, regardless of their ends.
Therefore, excluding the inherent morality of an action from your evaluation appears more likely to produce an evil outcome than restricting yourself to actions that you consider morally defensible.Overall, I found that much of what Alinsky has to say is worth reading, and I recommend that everyone evaluate his thoughts on morality for herself.
It was filled with some really great information and truths, as well as many false ideas, some of which might sound true.
As he states in the prologue--this book is for those who ask the greatest question: "Why am I here?" The reason why Alinsky must write this book is because the atheists have thrown out the purpose of life, which all end in Jesus Christ.
I would like to meet Alinsky some day and ask if he truly believes in communism--the greatest killing machine the world has ever seem--or if he is just one of the "useful idots" whom the communists use to further their destruction of the freedom of mankind.
(This book had more obscenities than I usually tolerate.

All the right wing hullabaloo over Saul Alinsky's "Rules For Radicaals", published in 1971, is what made me decide to read this--horrors!--book about community organizing.
Since I have been involved in community organizing before, it only seemed logical to see if I could find some of the things I learned on the fly in Alinsky's book.
I immediately took my notes and wrote for the public that, indeed, the banker was THE guy who was going to help the city's homeless population.
Been hearing horrors about this book from the Vast Right Wing Conspiracy since at least last millennium.
Since Hilary Clinton’s association with Saul Alinksy was raised by our Secretary of Housing and Urban Development at the Republican National Convention as one of the reasons we should Fear Her, I decided I should read it.
It’s a short little book recounting some of the things a particularly effective community organizer learned in his decades of trying to make America live up to the true meaning of its creed.
Concludes with a heartfelt exhortation to remember that America cannot be changed without convincing white working class Americans that it needs to be changed.
