https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/43884.Phantom
Goodkind imitates one of his characters, Jagang the Just, as he tortures this story and rapes his plot to the point where he stretches this one hundred page novella into a 673 page brick.Almost nothing happens in this book.
I don't need the same conversation to take place between different sets of characters in each book.
133 pages on just how evil the Commun--er, the libera--I mean, the Empire is.I'm not the first to point out that every single novel in this series centers on Richard struggling to avoid losing his freedom and Kahlan struggling to avoid being sexually assaulted.
Richard is the smartest man in the world, do what he says.The End.
Undoubtedly Goodkind gets paid by the word, because he keeps repeating things.
Granted, in a series this long, one needs to repeat things that the reader may have forgotten.
I wish I could find some example online of this sort of writing technique—one where things get repeated, with tiny variations, over and over—but alas, it seems to be unique to books that are five times longer than they need to be because the author's overinflated ego and low opinion of his readers makes it appear necessary to continually repeat virtually the same text, over and over.I have this sneaking suspicion that I've already read 90% of the last book, without ever having laid eyes on it.
And yet, I'm going to read it anyway, but not before the library gets a copy.
Like the previous book, the action more resembles the early Goodkind works, with more magic and twists and actual things happening and less Richard giving rousing speeches that stretch 60-70 pages at a time.Richard knows Kahlan is alive and that she is real - and the people around him are convinced, too, and now he resumes the quest of finding her.
There's no closure again - the plot continues in the next volume.This is the last book that I read in the SoT series.
I decided I didn't care what happens to Richard and Kahlan, and decided all (good) things must end.
Goodkind admitted that he was more interested in exploring his philosophies than in following the plotting of an epic fantasy - and boy did it show.
There was still more talk than action, but Lauren breathed new life into a stale series.
After all, we'd already dealt with the Boxes of Orden in the first 2 books of the series.The only reason I picked up Phantom is because I'm curious to see how Goodkind plans to wrap everything up in this, the 2nd volume of the 'final' trilogy.
I have played with all these piece of data in my head and conglomerated them into a larger, overall concept with has lead me to know exactly what course my action now must take to accomplish my overall goals of not dying, not allowing my freiend to die, defeating comunisum, saving magic, saving magical creatures, and not allowing the universe to be distroyed.
I know what i must do."Woman in tight leather outfit: "Oh tell us what we must do, Master"Buxum Lass with soul of iron: "You are so wise and smart and not dumb.
I wish you were mine, but i know you love the phantom woman, not me.
do tell us, richard.
TL;DR: While better than Chainfire, this book is abysmally dull. Very little actually happens in it. It suffers greatly from middle volume syndrome. There is no real climax of which to speak, only a weak cliffhanger. The writing, itself, is horrible. This is not what professional writing looks like. This barely even passes as amatuer. There is a section which illustrates my point on showing vs. telling for me far better than I could ever explain it to someone, where something is told to us, ove
And then, if that wasn't enough, Zedd comes to him afterward and says, "Bags, my boy, I don't think I quite understand about these emblem things you keep ranting about, please explain it to me again in extreme and condescending detail." (Notice how I wrote dialog truer to this character's speech patterns than the actual creator of the character did anywhere in this book by the way.) And Richard says, "Ohoho, sit down, old man.
Goodkind has made up his mind what the right morality is, but he's a lot less careful than Thomson, who actually asks people and revises her ideas when it turns out they lack universality.I guess, for that matter, The Book Thief deals with these themes too, with the cruelty of empire, with the injustice of death in war, with a bland dichotomy between good and evil.
You'd have to be a masochist or unstable or extremely stubborn or (most likely) wildly vapid to make it this far into the series, and most people with the chops to understand the math aren't wildly vapid.Well, back to moral philosophy for three books.
Maybe not the yawn-I-can't-keep-my-eyes-open kind of boring (after all, it is still Goodkind who spins the story and somehow manages to keep it just interesting enough) but it certainly is a very tedious bit.I understand that because so much happened in the past books, Goodkind felt the need to recapitulate all important events just to make the reader really comprehend the philosophy of the Sword of the Truth series.
All the characters seem to do in the first part of the book is talk.
How very frighting, yet exciting!The last parts of the book are the reason for this 4 star review.
I think this is the worst book in the series, and until The Pillars of Creation, I was rating these books at least four stars.
I liked the characters, in some cases loved them, and was fascinated by Goodkind's world and themes.
(Well, actually the Pillars of Creation before that dragged too.) The next and concluding book after this, Confessor doesn't quite redeem the series for me, but I'd still point to Phantom as the low point.Why?
As an overall rating for this series I only give it 2 stars.
It wasn't that I agreed or disagreed with his point of view.
If so much time wasn't spent on repeating morals and the authors view of philosophy, then the books would be probably half the size.
Now, as far as the actual story, I enjoyed it.
I actually liked this book particularly.
The end of the series though was a big disapointment.
I was not happy about the ending.
I don't want to give the ending away though for anyone who is still interested in reading it.
And because the elements of magic they are talking about are vaguely described you feel like you're listening to a debate about a topic you know hardly anything about, not to mention what you can understand is mostly things the reader should already know.
Sometimes I just wanted to strangle them and tell them to get to the point.By the time the book finally does pick up and start going somewhere you're halfway through it.Now we find out previous conflicts that were thought to be resolved are back, adding to the already overwhelming odds the characters face.
Every single time the author is describing a scene involving the brutality of the Order there is rape.
But on the inside, I was shrieking at Nicci, "What did you just do?!"To say that the ending on this book made up for the bulk of the story is an understatement.
I am looking forward to Book 11, just to get some closure and answers to questions (which better freaking happen, man!) As much as I want things to go back to "normal" for Richard and Kahlan, I'm sure it can't happen, so I'm eager to see how Goodkind pulls it all together for these characters who have captivated me for so long.
This book is very interesting and fun, I really like it a lot, you need to read it.
It's over the top and yet still Goodkind tries to sell it over and over again in every single book.
She experienced so much worse at Jagang's hands compared to Kahlan - I mean who wouldn't chose sleeping on the floor by his bed over getting raped repeatedly by him and his soldiers.
Alas, I know Goodkind can't ruing Kahlan for Richard so even though he tries to sell she is suffering like no one else has ever suffered, and yes she is suffering, it pales in comparison to what other innocents experience at his hands.
On to the final book.
At least one third of Chainfire, Phantom, and Confessor are basically the characters remembering the last 8 books.
All three of these books could be 1/3 shorter than they are just by eliminating or shortening most of the flashbacks that aren't necessary.Secondly, with the start of the Chainfire series (well, it really started with Pillars of Creation and Naked Empire where it got bad), Goodkind has a tendency to preach a rhetoric that we've been hearing over and over again for 8 or 9 books already.
We get it, we're on your side, we agree with you Terry (that's why we're reading your books), but your characters don't need to launch into a 30 minute dissertation on freedom every 100 pages.
The series covers many aspects of the dark side of humanity, in great detail, as the heroes try to overcome the evils in the world.
Goodkind is not afraid to show his readers just what evil *really* is, that is, most often, people who perform acts of evil feel justified in their minds as to why they are doing so, if for illogical reasons, and will that those that oppose them are the evil ones.
Goodkind shows his readers that the only way to overcome evil in ourselves and in the world is through use of Reason.
As a long time reader of the series (and not always a fan, necessarily) I enjoyed the references to characters which had been left by the wayside long ago, who I thought were forgotten.
But this book doesn't rely merely on nostalgia, it introduces some new characters, and fits them into the changing paradigms that pop up as everyone interacts.
This book isn't all great though, It's longer than it needs to be, and while I appreciate the call backs to older characters and locations, it sometimes felt like the author was really bending the story to get these older things to fit.
Moving rapidly towards the conclusion of the series (one more book, I think). This installment is not fantastic, but it isn’t horrible, either. It focuses on Richard getting his head out of the sand and refocusing his eﬀorts towards the ﬁnal battle. Then, of course, he gets screwed and the end of the book is reminiscent of the Gladiator movie.
Ahhh....the finally! Can't wait to find out what happens...AGAIN! lol My re-read is coming to an end, then onto the new stories!
As usual, there were still a few small grammar mistakes such as thrown for throne in the book which is also aggravating.
If I wanted to read intentional allegory and commentary on social events, I would do so but I don't enjoy it in my fiction.The story itself was like most of the other book's story lines.
There are a few interesting things in this book about how spells work and such but for the most part it seems to only be more of the same struggles that the rest of the series has presented.
I feel this series has far too much of this to be enjoyable.
I was happy the characters began to believe in Richard.
What was once clear for the Witches and Prophets to read and understand, has suddenly gone blank.
The key to it all, Richard, knows of the books he must seek.
From seeking his phantom, to destroying the Imperial Order, to thwarting witches, princesses, and queens, who will all have his head(!).
Will Richard find his breath of life and allow the world to live free?
Or will the Order prosper and force life to suffer?I would describe this book as heartbreaking.
The Phantom and the Seeker connect in a confusing inspiration for the final book.
For every book that comes out, I'm filled with excitement and anticipation.
The story evoled dramaticaly and steadly.
The reason is because, it's just filled with recap of the previous books, no new or not much improvements or developments with the characters and plot.
Maybe the author, is getting sick of their own story and just want to end it.
If it is, then it's a shame because it really is a great story.
The second last book to the EPIC Fantasy Series: The Sword of Truth. Phantom (Book #10) is definitely my favourite thus far, Terry Goodkind masterfully ties up loose ends from earlier books and sets the stage for the last book and conclusion. The brutality is just sickening in this one. Aa real page turner. By far the best fantasy series I have ever read. Absolutely love it.
This book was an inprovement over the previous book in the series. The previous book was 6-700 pages of Richard pining for Kahlin. In Phantom, there is actually a plot progression typical of the middle book of a trilogy. An interesting book, hopefully building to a strong conclusion in the 11th and final book of the series.
I'd write a review but then I'd have to stop reading Confessor long enough to do that and sadly, I can't... The end is so close....
She's Gone. Richard is the only one who believes. How do you come up with these storylines Goodkind.
Chainfire trilogy book 2, Sword of Truth Book 10. Nuff said I believe.
3.5 stars
Review in progress!
