https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1328088.The_Land_of_Spices
This book was published in 1942 and caused a sensation.
But not exactly the kind of sensation a writer might dream of causing...
No, a sensation among the censorship board so hideous that they banned it for “immorality”.
This beautiful book, because it contained one line that hinted at a way of life that was never then mentioned openly, languished for years unread.
You can read it today however, so all of you who live in times and places where censorship is unknown, run out and grab a copy of this book because it is excellently written and has more than earned its right to be read.
The beginning doesn’t have much of a sequence but as Anna (one of two primary characters) gets older her and Helen’s (Mother Superior) stories gel.
Undoubtedly she questions her decisions and as she gets older understands her father (and perhaps the decision, be it a good one or bad one, better)Anna is five when she comes to the boarding school.
Anna admitted at one point that she didn’t really like the older woman’s influence (and doesn’t quite understand it) though clearly both rely on each other for survival which culminates at the end of the novel.
It's an intertwined story of small Anna Murphy, the youngest boarder at an Irish convent school, and Helen, the Mother Superior.
As Anna grows up and struggles to find her path in life, her experiences cause Helen to reflect on the experiences which drove her to a religious life, eventually coming to terms with her past.
The book feels slowly paced in terms of actual events, because it's so inward-focused, yet it's riveting in O'Brien's lucid explorations of the minds of Helen and Anna.
I read the introduction after the book, and found that I had already decided correctly on what convent the book was based and in which county, and yet these were not stated explicitly - which is a credit to the truth of the book rather than me.I also enjoyed the setting of the book in a convent in Ireland in the early 1900s.
The female characters are independently minded and this would have been ahead of its time.Confusingly and disappointingly, the Virago edition that I read said in the cover notes that the book commences in 1912, whereas in fact it was 1902.
This is a book that I doubt I would have selected to read on my own, and definitely would not have finished without the pressure of an impending midterm to motivate me.
It doesn't have a lot of plot, and it is – to be completely honest – a little bit boring.That having been said, it has some of the most extraordinary characters I've ever read.
Both the major and minor characters are extremely well written.
:) I also found the book to be extremely moving; painfully so, in fact.
I doubt I will ever reread it, but I absolutely loved it.
I loved this book. This is a lush, rich book that stays with you long after you've turned the last page. I was assigned this book to read as part of an Irish Literature class, and I am so glad I was introduced to Kate O'Brien. Her pages are filled with words and phrases that quite literally took my breath away. If you love to sink, to melt, into a story; if you love subtle nuances and details, you will love The Land of Spices.
Colm Toibin recommended this book in the November Goodreads Newsletter. I admire him as a writer and speaker and book critic.The responses to this book were very stimulating...soGIVE IT A GO !!!!
Despite a slow beginning, I thoroughly enjoyed this Virago novel set in a convent school in Ireland in the 1930s. The character-driven story centers on the Reverend Mother and one of the students in the school. The Reverend Mother's English background is an impediment in a time of increased Irish nationalism; she must also work within the Order’s hierarchy and face challenges of her own character and faith. The student’s challenges include her troubled family and adjusting to life in the convent boarding school environment with its mix of teacher and student personalities and varying expectations.
It’s an apt description for much of what this book is about since it revolves around what’s going on inside the minds of its two central characters - the mother superior of an Irish school for the daughters of middle class families, and one of the students who is brought there as a very young child.
Kate O’Brien drew upon her own experiences at Laurel Hill, a convent school in Limerick where she was enrolled as a very young child – much like Anna in this novel.
But when six year old Anna Murphy comes as a boarder to the school because of the unsettled atmosphere at home between her parents, her father who drinks too much and has a roving eye, her mother who thinks it best for her child to go to the nuns who educated her and with whom she has kept in close contact since her schooldays, Reverend Marie-Helene changes her mind, thrust into a protective role towards Anna with whom she identifies, reminded of herself at that age.
What a beautiful book! Not much in the way of plot, but the intertwining story of the two main characters, schoolgirl Anna and Revered Mother Helen Archer, is so intimately described that You are drawn into. Incredible to think that this book was once banned, for one very innocuous line, but it's of its time - and none the worse for that!
I have a long-held fascination with books and films about nuns, for some reason...this novel, my introduction to Kate O'Brien, was excellent.
Published in 1940 and banned in Ireland, this is a subtle and humanistic story about the Mother Superior of an Irish convent school in the early twentieth century.
An Englishwoman raised in Belgium, her background and cool demeanour make her a bit of a fish out of water, both interpersonally among the other nuns and the students, as well as in an increasingly nationalist climate among the middle class in Ireland at the time.
The novel centres around both Mother Mary Helen and a young pupil in whom she takes an interest.
This book is more of a character exploration of a Mother Superior at a girls' school in Ireland on the cusp of WWI, and of one of its long-time students. It is gentle, contemplative, and calming. The two main plot twists - the dark and startling discovery that drove Mother Mary Helen Archer into the religious life and the tragedy that severs Anna's ties to her past and home - are not at all surprising. I guessed them well before they occurred. However, the point of the book isn't exactly to be action-packed, and it all hangs together rather pleasantly.
A small book store owner in Dublin recommended this book to me and I'm so glad. In the context of the Catholic church still operating most schools in the Republic of Ireland and with largely segregated schools in Northern Ireland along religious lines, The Land of Spices is a likely story for today's young Irish women. Kate O'Brien tells a charming, complicated story.
Kate O'Brien completely draws you into this novel about nuns, convent schools and one pupil in particular, Anna. The book deals with several subjects in a way that isn't obvious. I really loved reading this and will read more K. O'Brien in the future (I have another on my desk actually).
What a strange, uneventful, but incredibly insightful feminist work!
What an odd, beautiful book -- oblique and subtle, and then moments that are just heartbreaking.
So very, very beautiful.
Marie-Helen is the most well-drawn character: she grew up in an intellectual household in Belgium, and adored her father, who taught her about books, paintings and high culture, and encouraged her to go to university.
(hide spoiler)] Marie-Helen is horrified, and cannot forgive her father, retreating to the convent as an escape from lust and family relationships.
The novel asks us whether Marie-Helen's life is fulfilling, whether she is closing herself off to joy, and what being in a convent means to women at this time.
The novel is flawed in its exploration of Anna Murphy: she is too much of a lacuna and too like Marie-Helen to act as a counter-point to her.
After my overindulgence in mysteries,and the Holidays, it seemed like a good time for a novel about convent life.
Read My rating:1 of 5 stars2 of 5 stars3 of 5 stars[ 4 of 5 stars ]5 of 5 starsPreviewThe Land of Spicesby Kate O'Brien 3.89 · Rating details · 370 Ratings · 52 ReviewsMere Marie-Helene once turned her back on life, sealing up her heart in order to devote herself to God. Now the formidable Mother Superior of an Irish convent, she has, for some time, been experiencing grave doubts about her vocation.
I was surprised by how much I enjoyed this book.
I took the plunge however based on Clare Boylan's assessment of it as "a novel with perfect pitch" and found her judgment to be spot-on in this case.
There are the usual catalysts for dramatic pathos--sex, death, rivalry, love, etc.--but overall the tone of the novel is quiet, subdued, but lyrically written and always believable in its characterizations and depictions.
The victory of love over despair, of devotion over defeat, is told here with profound sensitivity and sympathy.
It is hard to read this book and not come away with a renewed sense of appreciation for the average everyday.
This one isn't for everybody, but it resonated with me because of my convent school background and Irish Catholic heritage.
Those are definitely things of the past!
There is a coldness to the prose, something almost nineteenth or early twentieth century in its style.
But the themes of belief, love, jealousy, vocation, parochialism, nationalism, the power of poetry are front and center at all times, and the major characters memorable (although I admit I had a hard time keeping track of the various religious).
I applaud Kate O'Brien for assuming that her readers are cosmopolitan and multilingual, as the pages are filled with French and some Latin, German, and Spanish.
It is not every day that one has the chance to read about life in an Irish convent.
People are fascinated by nuns and the reasons why one would choose such a life.The high point of the novel was the description of the traumatic event which encouraged Helen to enter a cloister in the first place.
I wonder if this is common - that there is some defining event in one's personal life which leads to a religious vocation.Well written and even though I appreciate being introduced to a new novelist, I don't think I'll seek out her work in the future.
The story was good and the book was well written but after 300 pages I never really felt that I knew any of the characters. There are certain points when the author starts to show some insight into some of the individuals in the story, but then backs off and never fully develops them. It was entertaining to read, but not gripping and a little bit disappointing from what I had hoped it would be.
One of the best books I have ever read. Anna and The Reverend Mother are two of the most enticing characters ever. I discovered Kate O'Brien with this book and I can honestly say she just became one of my favourite authors!
2.5 stars
Although this is an old book and it takes place primarily in a convent, I found it such a marvellous read, such wonderful characters and the writing was quite special.
I had to read this for a book club and did not think I was going to like it. I ended up enjoying it. The characterizations were great.
Beautifully written, about an unfamiliar topic: a Catholic girls' boarding school in Ireland and convent life. So glad I read it.....
Well written critique of the unfortunate triumph of fanatical Catholicism and fervent nationalism prevalent at the time of writing.
