https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/97837.The_Kneeling_Christian
I haven't even finished it yet, but I can tell you already it's going to be a 5 star book.
Ok finished...What an amazing book!!
It's about Jesus' promise that if you love God and seek His will, and follow Jesus example and commands, then what you ask in Jesus' name will be granted because it will glorify God.
This is to my Father’s glory, that you bear much fruit, showing yourselves to be my disciples." John 15:7-8 NIVThe entire book highlights the limitless power at the hands of Jesus' diciples, in so far as, it is in God's will.
I consider this one of the best teaching books I've ever read, and one I'm sure I'll keep coming back to in the future.
Knowing that it was written, not for the fame, or financial gain of the author, but that the Church might receive the benefit of the teaching, and that God might be glorified, really amplifies the message.In line with the author's humility in embracing anonymity, is his style of teaching, which I would describe as exceptionally meek and gentle.
I have read teaching books where the doctrine was generally quite good, but was presented in a kind of "lecturing" tone, which I can imagine that more sensitive readers would find discouraging.
Powerful. It will drive you to your knees. Loved it cover to coved. Probably the first book after my baptism in 2004 and it drove me to a new spiritual level.
Its a fireball of encouragement to get you on your knees.This book isn't simply the about putting your hands together and hoping for the best, oh no, this book means business!The author goes to great lengths to drive home to every man or woman who has made a commitment to Christ, their responsibility to pray and the effects of what happens when you seek the Lord with all your heart, soul and mind.I know prayer is vital and I know I have a long way to go but I am determined to seek the face of the Lord and this has been such a wonderful help, I simply cannot remove it from my Kindle, ever!The book gives details of the result of prayer in the lives of our family, friends, nations and revivals.
This book was so amazing and inspiring that I purchased my own copy and have read it more than once.
When I was in Bible college we read dozens of books on prayer. Without a doubt this is the best. I have read it several times. Each time I read it I am challenged to reignite my prayer life and my wonder for God is awakened. This is a must read!
A book I plan on reading frequently. it doesn't take long to read it, but yet there is so much to take in. Excellent. Don't miss reading this book !!
Consider ReadingConsider reading The Kneeling Christian, it's an old book but I think it fits perfectly even for this age. GOoD!
One of the most well written books on prayer. Simply written with a concise, accessible way of deepening your relationship with God.
One amazing book that one must read before one's death!Just amazing.. never read such stuff.. never in my life..
Hands down the most insightful book on prayer that I've ever read! I could ponder on one single sentence for an entire day.
It is a must read for anyone serious about prayer.
The author of this classic is unknown but the book has influenced many to press into the presence of God.The strengths of the work are its devotional fervor, inspiring anecdotes from the lives of praying saints, simplistic concepts that are easily applied and singular focus of calling us all to pray as God’s children.
Each chapter will inspire you to go deeper in intimacy with the Father.As someone who reads a great deal on prayer, I have found few works on the subject that could be so easily used as a foundation text for teaching or discipleship.
These twelve chapters will provoke you if you take time to dwell on the truths they contain.
This is an incredible book on prayer. The unknown author makes the point that while there is no higher calling for the christian than a life of prayer, he also points out that it just also lead to action for God. If your prayer llfe needs revitalization, this classic will open your eyes.
"'Pray' is an invitation to be accepted rather than a command to be obeyed." What a privilege to go to God with everything and experience His love and power as he speaks with us and answers us. The book, "The Kneeling Christian" teaches us what the Bible says about prayer, and how we can know God and His plan for us better through prayer. I loved this book, and will read it again and again! Thanks, Mark, for recommending it.
This book just goes to show how timeless the Bible is. It was written years ago and yet the principles in it can be very useful for today. I would highly recommend this book as it has enriched my prayer life. Prayer is one of the greatest responsibilities of a Christian and one the greatest power that God has given us.
Wisdom ExplainedI've read this book over six times and get something new each time. Refreshingly truthful, biblically factual and reassuring. Fully explained and interesting. A must read for all.
So compellingDo I really pray? This book opened my eyes! Must read for the serious person who wants to pray, really pray!
Some good nuggets in the book and it offers some great challenges to one's prayer life to be sure but overall I was not in any way mind blown by it.
I also think the way that I feel about it is related to some of the theology that is presented in the author's writing that I differ with and in those places didn't find the author's interpretation of the Bible to be the best hermenuetics and made feel a certain way about the book as well.
Either way I think any Christian could benefit from reading it through for themselves as a challenge to their prayer life.
I tried checking top 10 lists about prayer and surprisingly this was not included. This has inspired me to get down onto my knees to pray for others, and to even enrich my prayer life. The simplicity of the writing and sincerity of the heart, coupled with encouraging narratives (like Praying Hyde), this is an easily accessible yet scripturally inspired writing for anyone desirous for a vibrant Christian walk.
Conviction and encouragement to prayThe author is very thorough in his exhortation to pray. He explained the hindrances and how to overcome the hindrances and backs it all up with God’s word.
I hate to give it just two stars, but I wasn't very insightful; it just covered the same grounds as many other books on prayer that covered the basics. It did have quite a few interesting quotes and a few testimonies. I'd recommend it for someone starting in the Christian life.
Here is a treasure trove of Scripture's promises for prayer and about prayer. The author, a missionary, interweaves many memorable true stories, and leaves none of the troubling questions and doubts unaddressed. Don't read it in a day. This one merits small bites and digestion.
I read it a few years ago after I read Andrew Murray book about Prayer. This is a powerful book which challenged me to look at my prayer life. I want to get a copy. It is a good book for all Christians to read from new Christians to Mature Christians.
A gemI've increasingly found that my spiritual life is nourished in the midst of my own studies and research when I also make a point of including spiritual classics such as this one in my devotions.
Book focuses on prayer - How to pray, what to pray and when to pray. Answered many questions on prayer and what we are supposed to do. Prayer is a conversation with God and he will speak to you.
Probably the most impactful book on prayer I've read.
ExcellentI learned so much reading this book. I took lots of notes and shared lots of quotes. Now, may God grant me a praying spirit that I might live as I've learned.
Wonderful!This book should be read and reread. Gives true meaning and understanding to prayer. While reading keep pen and a notepad handy.
Convicting and helpful. Prayer humbles us.
