https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/472228.The_Colors_of_Space
The setting is a future when we’ve encountered another intelligent race in the universe, and they’ve shared some (but not all) of their space travel secrets with us.
There’s one scene in this book that I love in which Bart is watching the beautiful colors of space pass by and lamenting that his Lhari friend cannot appreciate it with him.
It brought to mind the beautiful scenes of warp-speed space travel from the television series Stargate Universe.A search for an item which is an 8th color that Bart has never seen before plays a large part of the plot of the book.
When I was twelve, I had no idea it was a YA novel (the paperback wasn't marketed as such) nor did I realize the book was already 20 years old.
The plucky teenage hero masquerades as one of the Lhari, infiltrates one of their crews, and sets out to steal the secret of Warp Drive (five years pre-Star Trek) - but comes to realize that the Lhari aren't evil, and that for the most part they're just a bunch of regular guys (except for the retractable claws and color-blindness).
Then again, at least the bad guy aliens were good old capitalists at heart.
You see, I read this book when I was very young, so I could visualise the scenes with the vividness of the very young, so the enthusiastic descriptions of the beauties of space have sunk deep into my marrow and become part of my being:Swirling past the ship, gleaming in the reflected sunlight like iron filings moving to the motion of a magnet, were the waves upon waves of cosmic dust- tiny free electrons, ions, particles of gas; free of the heavier atmosphere, themselves invisible, they formed in their billions into bright clouds around the ship; pale, swirling veils of mist.
This is not a well known book by MZB. In point of fact, it was one of her first novels before she became a big name author. And it was originally marketed as a juvenile--but I read and enjoyed it as adult.It is a perfectly good space adventure novel==disregard the reviews on the back and read it. It is a short quick easy read. Nothing unusual or fantastic but it shows Bradley's early writing style. I have a particular fondness for this book because it was the first book by Ms. Bradley I ever read.
Sometimes considered to be a young adult novel, it features a young man just graduated from college.Bart Steele, the recent graduate of the Space Academy on Earth, learns that his father has been murdered but has sent him a message: "Bart, I send money and instructions by my friend.
Don't go home, Dad."The time is far future, space travel is common, but the secret of travel faster than the speed of light is jealously guarded by a non-human race, the Lhari.
Bart learns that the Lhari are non-violent and peace loving but color blind.
What he discovers is the "eighth color." If college graduates these days had chances to grow up as fast as Bart had to, who knows what our future would be.
The Lhari are trying to hunt down Mr. Steele and Bart is in danger, too.Off goes Bart to try to find his father and his father’s secrets.
All he knows is that the secret to the Lhari space drive has something to do with an eighth color that humans have never seen before (Marion Zimmer Bradley’s science is a little off here.
(I won’t mention again about the scientific implausibility of that.)I listened to Jim Roberts narrate the CD version of The Colors of Space that Brilliance Audio has recently released (it’s been available at Audible since 2010).
Maybe that's why I was able to enjoy this story despite some rough patches.
I wouldn't have minded if Bart was more fleshed out, and if his dialog didn't slip into rather unexpected decisions without a lot of what's-going-on-inside-his-head time.
But past that, I loved this story.
The world around the characters was very alive and the space descriptions were breath-taking (if you don't sit and worry about the scientific side of it).
Out of the 8 other books I've been slogging through recently, this was like a breath of fresh air.
The Lhari spaceport didn't belong on Earth.Although I haven't read any MZB in a long time, her The Mists of Avalon and the Darkover series remain some of the best works of fantasy.
She is, simply, an amazing author.
The Colors of Space, an early work of hers written in 1963, displays many of the author's amazing qualities of writing style and messaging.
MZB was always very good at this, and here she speaks to prejudice and war.
The Colors of Space works well for a young adult audience, although parts of it haven't aged very well, particularly the descriptions of spacecraft computing.
The Colors of Space By Marion Zimmer Bradley I remember reading this a long time ago.
His father, a Terran, owns a space shipping business that struggles as it must against the monopoly that the Lhari race has over interstellar flight.
Upon graduation Bart is to meet his father at the Lhari spaceport where he will leave Earth and return home.
Since often survival hinges on such things there would likely have been another way for them to discern that a surface they were working on, in their ship, might be hot.
The Colors of Spaceby Marion Zimmer Bradleyread by Jim RobertsThis is one of Marion Zimmer Bradley's earliest books and is a solid enjoyable book.
Sometime in their exploration they met an alien race called the Llari who have the capability of faster-than-light travel.
The Llari are happy to supply such transport to humans but won't share the secrets of their technology with humans.
Jim Roberts has a great voice but his performance comes off kind of stiff and dry.
After an adventurous search for his father, Young Bart Steele takes on the responsibility of proving that humans can survive the rigor of interstellar travel in a conscious state, in the process he begins to understand the alien Lhari, who have a monopoly on interstellar travel, and questions how mankind should go about becoming masters of interstellar travel themselves.Ms. Bradley paints a vivid picture of what the future Earth and the many human occupied planets must be like and introduces the Lahari, an alien species very much like humans.
The story is packed with details about how humans and Lahari are similar and how they are different both physically and socially.
I liked the story a lot, interesting concepts and engaging characters, but I'll tell ya, it was hard to enjoy it too much due to the narrator of the audiobook version I got from Audible.co.uk. I understand that LibriVox has a version of the book as well, which I'm tempted to download and compare. Amazing how a bad reading can ruin a whole book.
YA coming of age novel from celebrated SF author, with differences between aliens and humans theme.

A sweet and simple space adventure. Good moral and satisfying conclusion.Some quotes:"Thousands of years ago, men had spread out from Earth—first to the planets, then to the nearer stars, crawling in ships that could travel no faster than the speed of light.""the never-changing, ever-changing colors of space""The cold knot of fear, never wholly absent, moved in him again.""he looked out through a great viewport into bottomless space""Maybe there's no such thing as a limiting speed. Someday we'll reach true simultaneity—"
Excellent exampleVerified Purchase(What's this?)This review is from: The Colors of Space (Kindle Edition)Excellent example of Bradley's juvenile fiction. I read it as a child and found it still interesting as an adult. We now know that despite her ability as an author, Bradley's personal life was less than exemplary to put it mildly. I understand that the publisher of her digital books is donating all income to childrens' charity. I do not know about the hard copy books. Perhaps her daughter, who asserts that she was abused, benefits.
Decent pulp sci fi with an interesting alien race. The central problem is also interesting but the ending is terrible. Supremely anti-climactic and the protagonist is far too passive throughout the book.
Humans have long dreamed of space travel, but the aliens they've met are not sharing the secret of how they travel between galaxies. They say humans cannot survive their shift into warp drive, but their are a few who have learned otherwise!
Another fantastic tale by this great author. Very inspiring!
This is a nice little old school space adventure, full of action, espionage, and perhaps even a little bit of commentary about race. For the price (free) it's definitely worth at least checking out.
As a book this doesn't age terribly well. The tech is something that can be ignored but the naive thought is what would happen... Nope
Audio book - but the plot seems familiar, maybe something I read quite a while ago.
Supposedly, this is because humans can't survive the warp drive without being in suspended animation sleep but as Bart soon learns as he becomes embroiled in interstellar events, this isn't the entire story.The main thing, I found, which distinguished this book from more modern YA is how stupid the main character was.
(There's another reference there to plot elements as well, which I won't spoil, but I read the main reference as being to the multi-coloured stars.) The thing is, the phenomenon, as described in the story, is not entirely real.
(view spoiler)[Throughout the book it's implied that the reason for this is that humans supposedly die if they're conscious during FTL, and the good guys are trying to prove that that's a lie.
The protagonist, of course, does find out what the FTL fuel is and where to get it, but it's treated as a sort of side issue, like it's not the most important thing.
(view spoiler)[When the protagonist disguises himself as one of them and goes undercover on their ship, he discovers that they're pretty much exactly like humans in terms of society and culture.
(hide spoiler)]Oh, and these aliens who discovered FTL space travel?
Opening Sentence: “…It was a week before the Lhari ship went into warp-drive, and all that time young Bart Steele had stayed in his cabin…”Bart Steel has just graduated from the SpaceAcademy, and is returning home.
Humans have worked out that the Lhari fuel source consists of eight colours, seven have been identified but the eighth colour remains unknown; THE COLORS OF SPACE is about the search for that eighth colour, and what extent people will go to get that knowledge.On his arrival at a space port, circumstances quickly place Bart undercover as a crew member on a Lhari ship that is travelling to their home planet.
It’s clean and fairly modern.
Well, it’s 50 plus years old, but most the sci-fi I like to read is closer to a hundred years old for the very reasons I liked this one.
I don’t think it would be possible to have a sci-fi book with aliens without that base.
Like most sci-fi, it’s got a ‘moral’.
There are no overly religious thoughts preached as in some books, instead, it’s more a call to (view spoiler)[ get along even if we look different.
(hide spoiler)] It was a fun read for a sleepless night.
Este desaparecimento está de alguma forma relacionada com o povo alienígena Lhari, que na sua malícia esconde dos humanos o segredo da super-propulsão, que lhes permite viajar rapidamente entre galáxias.
O pai de Bart estava a tentar descobrir esse segredo quando desapareceu, e Bart vai então à sua procura, assumindo o seu lugar na missão infiltrada numa nave Lhari.É uma boa história sobre tolerância e aceitação daquilo que nos é estranho, ensinando que não devemos julgar o que não conhecemos pela opinião dos outros.
Though straightforward and somewhat easy to predict, Bradley has put together a fun tale of played out in a unique space setting.Bart Steele is on the run and undercover, trying to expose the Lhari, the alien race who have a total monopoly on space travel, for lying to humans about their ability to travel through space without being in cold sleep.
While on the ship, Bart sees that the Lhari are not as evil as he thought, but still carries out his mission to exploit the lies that the Lhari use to stay the lone purveyors of space travel.This was an easy read.
available through LibriVox Audiobooks or Project GutenburgWhile it's not my favorite genre, sometimes I really need some old school sci-fi.
Recent Space Academy graduate Bart Steele, suddenly finds himself involved in interplanetary intrigue, when he takes his father's place in a plot to discover the secret of the warp drive that the alien Lhori use to travel between galaxies.
Aided by the traits he inherited from his Mentorian (humans with special sight abilities who often work with the Lhori) mother, Bart discovers more than either humans or Lhori could have imagined.This is a great space adventure with an engaging ethical dilemma.
This was the first book I've read by Marion Bradley, and I've heard some great things about her writing.
Without giving away any spoilers, the book is based in a world with an alien race which has the secret of faster than light space travel.
They allow humans to use their technology but not know it's secrets.
A human boy gets caught up in a plot against the aliens.
It has a sweet ending, and I can see it's lesson: which is basically people should work together and look over differences.
I look forward to reading Bradley's fantasy novels and seeing how they compare.
