https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/250838.Infantry_Attacks
جوانِ شجاع و باهوشی که با پشتکار و میهن پرستیِ خودش از جنگِ جهانی اول و لیاقتی که از خود نشان داد، تمامی پله هایِ موفقیت را پی در پی سپری کرد و بالا رفت... مردم آلمان و همینطور مردمِ جهان باید همیشه این انسانِ بزرگ و محبوب را الگو خودشان قرار بدهندمردِ بزرگی که حتی دشمنانِ او نیز، همیشه احترامِ زیادی برایِ وی قائل بودند و درکل از محبوبیتِ زیادی برخوردار بوده استیادِ فرمانده <اروین رومل> همیشه زنده و گرامی باد<پیروز باشید و ایرانی>
Most people have heard of Erwin Rommel, at least in passing. But most people probably associate his name with only two events: World War Two tank battles in North Africa, and Rommel’s forced suicide by Hitler because of his ancillary association with Stauffenberg’s attempt to assassinate Hitler. And most people probably have a general sense that Rommel was not so bad a guy, relative to the Nazi regime as a whole (as low a bar as that may be). This book contradicts none of that, but provides a b
We typically associate World War One with Western Front trench warfare, and although Rommel did fight there and records it, much of the book is concerned with other fronts.
What strikes the modern reader most about the book is that it has a very different view of World War One fighting than we are used to.
Most of the time, we think of World War One as unrelieved horror to no point, led by clueless generals and political leaders, featuring such low points as endless static trench fighting, Verdun, poison gas, and Gallipoli.
Nothing like the truth as understood by a man writing from personal experience. My father fought his Afrika Corps in North Africa.
Rommel's book is a classic in leadership. This is experiences in WWI and shows how he thought and fought in WWI. This is highly recommended.
Interesting personal account of World War I conditions and tactics. Perhaps a bit self-promotional, but also relates episodes when his decisions did not end successfully and includes praise for both subordinates and superiors.
The well drawn and numerous sketches make it very easy to gain an understanding of the battles being described and the 'observations' placed at the end of the description of each engagement often highlight just why Rommel was such a successful commander during the Second World War. The book offers one of the best insights I have seen into both German military thinking at the turn of the 20th Century and also allows the reader to enter into the mind of one of an exceptionally talented military officer.
You've got to hand it to this guy Rommel, he hardly ever lets even a small flash of humanity show.
He seems to be interested in absolutely nothing except small-unit infantry operations.
The only effort at reflection is a few "Observations" given after each action, most pretty obvious (example: after losing touch with another unit in a fog, he observes that it can be hard to coordinate operations when it's foggy).
Read this if you're fascinated with WWI infantry tactics.
Read it if you want to see Rommel's admirable martial virtues in action--his courage, tenacity, steadfastness, cool-headedness, endurance, and tactical sense.
Rommel, you magnificent bastard; I read your book!Actually, it is a pretty good book.
He demonstrates the ability to think decisively but with good sense, and after describing each battle or action, he analyzes what went right and wrong for both sides.
He obviously wanted to learn and to teach what he'd learned from experience.
He was committed to victory, but only at a minimal cost - this was not some callous cannon-fodder-flinging commander.
There were times of classic German understatement that made me grin - whether that was a characteristic of Rommel or the translator, I know not.
Leitura densa e carregada de detalhes técnicos que muitas vezes podem tornar o livro detalhista demais, porém, essa é a proposta aqui do General.
Sem sombra de dúvidas um dos maiores militares que esteve em ação em ambas as maiores guerras da humanidade.
Leitura obrigatória para quem quer entender os mínimos detalhes da guerra de trincheiras.
Tenho a nítida impressão que esse livro é o Corão de qualquer militar, de qualquer patente ligado à infantaria.
Infelizmente vou ter que dar 3 estrelas pelo extremismo técnico, mas certamente é uma obra prima do militarismo.
Excellent book on leadership without politics; tactics without doubt; Soldiering without prejudice. A must read for all new leaders, and a great refresher for seasoned veterans. rest assured this is about a German warrior, not a NAZI political machine. Yes, he was a tool in that mechanism, but he prefered the militarism, tactics and strategies of war far more than the political necessities. Rommel was a great tactician and strategist.
A must read for every infantry & small unit leader. Rommel was bold & brilliant and he had audacious & amazing victories to show for it. He was a phenominal combat leader, it's too bad he was fighting for the wrong side... When in doubt - ATTACK!
Excellent book which put great insight on the author' s own achievements. The precise description of the battles were stripped of political background and focused on military strategy.
This is a great way to draw parallels between Rommel in both World Wars, and view a clear progression in skill and character.
I recommend this to anyone who is interested in a unique outlook on war and is interested in learning about Erwin Rommel.
However this book does have a writing style that takes a little getting used to: It was originally written in German, so the English translation is not always completely clear.
Overall I recommend this only to people who are genuinely interested in studying Rommel and his major roles in both World Wars.
This book is halfway between a First World War memoir and a small unit tactics field manual.
To which I emphasise the technical detail to which the author analyses his command of infantry units during his deployments during the Great War, as this forms most of the book's contents.
However as a first hand account of the war from a German's perspective, let alone one who served on fronts we often don't hear much about this book is nuanced, fascinating and touching.
I strongly recommend this book for historians of all degrees, as an insight into the Great War and a great man.
"Time stood still.
A few months ago we would have laughed had we been told that this kind of miserable existence was even possible."This is an astonishingly detailed first-hand account of Erwin Rommel's experiences in the First World War as an officer in his mid-twenties.
Readers will learn how he used organization, speed, reconnaissance, careful observation, stealth, deception, and diversion to distinguish himself as a warrior, mountaineer, and tactician.This is a great read for anyone interested in military history and/or WWI.
This book is not a manual of military instructions.
It is rather a memoir of Rommel during WWI, where he was a junior officer leading small units into battle.
To read the book is not only to see war through the eyes of a man, during WWII would be considered one of the war's mots brilliant generals, but also to come to know the soldier in him - his raw courage, his indomitable spirit to win, his quick grasp of battlefield tactics and his willingness to disregard orders if he felt he was on the cusp of a victory.
Estoico, brillante, valiente, eficaz. Rommel luchaba hombro a hombro con los soldados rasos, atacaba a la bayoneta cuando estaba acorralado, corría días enteros sin comer ni dormir, era capaz de rendir compañías enteras con un discurso y una pistola. No temía al fracaso, respondía naturalmente cuando tenía una responsabilidad sobre sus hombros, siempre buscó triunfar, y casi siempre lo logró. El zorro del desierto era un guerrero feroz pero caballeroso, apolítico, empático, inteligente, un ser humano ejemplar.
I am not a fan of military history, but I am a fan of Rommel. This book shows why Rommel was a great leader. He willingly endured what he expected his troops to endure. He used problematic situations to his advantage. He put his men first. He treated prisoners respectfully. Though he was not perfect, none of us is, the world lost a great leader when Hitler forced him to commit suicide for his alleged role in the July 20 plot. This book shows why Rommel was well-regarded by his allies and enemies alike.
An excellent and fully engaging book. This book offers an interesting and accurate description of life of German soldiers on the fronts of WWI, and at the same time showcasing Rommel's brilliance as a field tactician.My favourite parts would have to be the Italian campaigns at the end. I would recommend the book to anyone who's interested in WWI and Rommel.
Rommel. What else do you want?
2.5 stars
It was 1941Rommel: Do you think they realize-Patton: No they don't, they're russian.Rommel: Fair point.
"I don't know which I should admire more, your courage before the enemy or your courage before your superiors." - Pg 215 - The Fight At Longarone[Captain Kremling to Major Sproesser in response to his refusal of a halt order; which permitted the Rommel detachment to press an attack that captured an entire Italian Division and subsequently earn them both the Pour Le Merit. -KF]
"I read your book!"
More of a self-promoting autobiography than a manual of infantry attacks, this book is still worth reading for anyone who wants to learn about WWI, WWII or Rommel.
It traces Rommel's experiences in WWI, starting on the western front at the start of the war, then moving to the mountains in southeast Europe fighting against the Romanians, Italians and Russians.
First, most of the books I have read about WWI (like All Quiet on the Western Front) focus on trench warfare.
Also, most of the other histories I have read focus on large scale army movements and this takes place on a company level.In terms of its use as an infantry manual, it is of less use.
Este livro é um retrato fiel e conciso da experiência militar de Rommel durante a Primeira Guerra Mundial.
Escrito numa linguagem técnica mas acessível, relata os estratagemas empregues por Rommel para alcançar a vitória nas várias campanhas em que este envolvido, sempre com um cuidado para minimizar o custo.
O mais interessante deste livro é que muitas das tácticas ainda podem ser usadas hoje em dia, apesar dos equipamento se terem modernizado, os conceitos de flanqueamento, fogo de cobertura, e posicionamentos tácticos, continua quase inalterados.Uma leitura muito interessante, que recomendo a todos os que se interessem pela Primeira guerra Mundial, Erwin Rommel ou tácticas de pequenos grupos de infantaria.
Written during the interwar period and leading, in part to Rommel’s notoriety in the German Officer Corps, Attacks looks at his experiences in WWI as a platoon leader and company commander on the Western Front first, then switching to his famous command in the Württemberg Mountain Battalion where he won his Pour Le Merite.
Rommel’s style is easy to follow and the way he captures ‘lessons learned’ at the end of each chapter makes this a book that’s easily read in pieces.
Rommel’s comments on fighting in the mountains, bayonet fighting, use of supporting fires, size of attacking elements, the role of the leader and training are timeless.
I have long been fascinated by the "legend" of the Desert Fox. To truly understand the tactical brilliance of Rommel, you must study his experiences as an infantry officer in WW I on first the Western Front and then in the mountains of the Italian front.
It was here that the Fox was born.Infantry Attacks is Rommels book explaining his infantry tactics during WW I.
The text would later be adopted by the German military during the enter-war years as Rommel served as an instructor in the Reichswehr, the 100,000 man army Germany was forced to have by the hated Diktat of Versailles.If you like military history or military tactics, this book is an interesting read.
This book may not be for everyone; however, anyone interested in military history and military tactics will likely find it fascinating.
Rommel has a writing style that is very personal, revealing much of not only what he did but also what his feelings were and why he did it.
Throughout the book, the decisions he made it combat easily show why he came to be one of the top German generals in WW2.
If you are looking for a great book on WWI this book will show you the war in a way you may have never seen it before, through the eyes of a stellar junior German officer.
The first purpose for this book, it seems, was for Rommel to blow his own horn. That being said, it provides an interesting look at small unit actions in various theaters during the Great War, particularly looking at the role of command and planning in such actions. My favourite parts are Rommel's reflections on the lessons learned from each action, as I can see manifestations of these in his WWII career. Pretty entertaining, definitely self effacing, but I think valuable in its context.
