https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/773961.The_American_Political_Tradition_and_the_Men_Who_Made_It
It may stand as a token of Calhoun's place in the South's history that when he did find culture there, at Charleston, he wished a plague on it.On Blaine:Yet he left behind him not a single constructive achievement, hardly even a constructive suggestion; his chief contribution to American politics was to lower its tone.
Hofstadter writes very well and makes big claims, which is a pleasant change from a lot of contemporary history.
The book's general thesis - that the American Political Tradition is by and large an ongoing defense of the property rights of the well-off - seems correct.
I know he changed some later on in his career, but this book would be considered an unpublishable incitement to class war these days.
Meanwhile the self-professed radical professors and graduate students are writing about the Disabled Phillipino-American Bisexual Communities of Northern Montana from 1863-1864.
Richard Hofstadter was an eminent historian, who wrote well on significant issues. My favorite works of his focus on American political thought and the history of American politics.Some of the chapters reveal the nature of his effort. "The Founding Fathers: An Age of Realism"; "Thomas Jefferson: The Aristocrat as Democrat"; "John C. Calhoun: The Marx of the Master Class"; "Wendell Phillips: The Patrician as Agitator"; "Woodrow Wilson: The Conservative as Liberal"; "Franklin D. Roosevelt: The Patrician as Opportunist."Hofstadter writes well and is insightful. This book is a nice collection of his essays.
It is probably his most-read book, and it repays reading with wit, humor, and not a small amount of trenchant criticism and original thought.Hofstadter was writing during the era of consensus history—when the modern consensus on American history had coalesced around a moderate liberal tradition into a picture that most serious scholars agreed on.
Although The American Political Tradition is an important book for the educated adult American to have read, for its historical information and analysis, much of which remains current or at least constitutes foundational background for current academic and political conversation in the United States.
brilliant historical synthesis and commentary. the title of the book is a bit misleading (as hofstadter himself admits; it was not his original choice); rather than a full synopsis of "the american political tradition", the book is really a series of fascinating, well written, and insightful political biographies of some of the most important americans in history. each chapter could stand alone as an essay, and as a collection they make for one of the better non-fiction books i've read.
This isn't so much a comprehensive summary of the political history of the United States, so much as it is a series of biographical sketches which sets out to demonstrate that despite party differences and sometimes intense personal animosity, all leading political figures in the history of the United States fall within the same 'Political Tradition.' Specifically: the belief that the function of Government should be as the protector of free enterprise, the protector of equality of opportunity, and that this is best achieved through a policy of substantial laissez-faire.Hofstadter, we quickly surmise, does not share in this belief and therefore The American Political Tradition reads as a breezily sacrilegious broadside against some of the more entrenched platitudes of American history.
The whole book is worthwhile but I particularly enjoyed Hofstadter's dissection of John C.
Doubtless, there are more modern books that fulfill the same role as this one, but equally doubtless, they are far less sagacious.
Even Lincoln's legacy as the "Great Emancipator" is challenged; though Hofstadter clearly admires the man, he paints a portrait not of a benevolent, selfless, progressive pioneer, but of an ambitious, cunning politician who was very much a product of his time.Despite all these critiques, the book is hardly bitter or unfair.
Even though his assessment of American political history is "realistic," his aim is clearly more idealistic.
But the agitator who had given no quarter expected none, and perhaps sensed that the scholarship of the future would treat him in the same spirit as had the scholarship of his time.
An excellent book on the the political history of our country from the days of the founders to the presidency of FDR, Hofstadter truly has written a history of our country that every American should read and be proud of and every historian probably wishes he had written.
He is the first historian who has, in my mind, made sense of Andrew Jackson and Woodrow Wilson's legacies and one of the best analyses of FDR's growth from reluctant progressive to figure-head of modern American Liberalism.
Most historians I have heard or read said that his was a genuine belief in the progressive agenda rather than a reluctant necessity.
Sort of in the vein of history-is-people, Hofstadter takes America's most interesting presidents and makes them people. He explains these incredible men as what they really were, how they acted, and what made them act that way. You get put right in with these guys, and learn more about them than most history classes will teach you. It was written in the 40's, my mom had it as a textbook, and now I'm reading it for my AP History course. It's really endured, and with good reason.
A beautifully written book that is heavy on analysis and opinion and light on historical research. Histories of this sort are fun to read, but I doubt there was ever any reason to write them (other than to pass the time, which is an excellent reason to do anything). You'll walk away from TAPT with a lot of talking points about important American politicians that subsequent historians have qualified into irrelevance in the fifty years since its publication.
Excellent, eye-opening, thought-provoking.
The American Political Tradition Book Review Richard Hofstadter (1916-1970) received his PhD in History from Columbia University in 1942. Soon after, he decided to pursue a writing career and study the history of politics. In his seventh published book, Hofstadter wrote his most acclaimed piece, The American Political Tradition (1948). In it, he gave his own analysis of America’s most prominent political figures. This work recalls events through American history that have changed how people thin
The American Political Tradition Book Review	Richard Hofstadter (1916-1970) received his PhD in History from Columbia University in 1942.
In the Preface of The American Political Tradition Richard Hofstadter made it clear that the audience of his book was students of many different ages.
By reading from these secondary sources, Hofstadter became an authority on American history and wrote this best selling book.
Richard Hofstadter was a political authority who wrote one of the most controversial narratives relative to American history; controversial because of its stark criticisms of heroes which angers some people while pleasing others.
I read this book for my AP US History class.
I loved the opposing viewpoints Hofstadter presented in this book, even down to the paradoxical chapter names.
There is no single prevailing narrative.
Politicians can be flawed, hypocritical, and fickle, and often take on different positions regarding a single issue as their career progresses.
I enjoyed reading about Lincoln, Roosevelt, and Jefferson.
By contrasting different perspectives, Hofstadter creates an authentic and partisan portrayal of the men who founded America, and encourages the reader to create his or her own worldview.
This was a challenge I truly enjoyed taking on.
As a work of history, it feels unfocused and missed much.
As a work of expression, it's very long since novel, and lacking in much consideration beyond the biographies.
As a book for it's own sake, I find Hofstader boring.
It's not a bad book, by any means, but I think the conversation has, inevitably, moved beyond it.To be fair, this thing seems addressed to Communists and Progressives - and neither the formers natural law delusions nor the Progressive idealism seems to still linger.
But I'm not sure what this could do for modern chauvinists like the neo-cons and neo-libs...
A witty, insightful, learned, scathing, eminently readable debunking of hagiographic myths about American political leaders. Sometimes Hofstadter’s barbs, however well constructed and intellectually sharp, are myopic and unfair (calling Lincoln nothing more than an opportunist seems a bit much). But still, the central concept that political divisions in American history are relatively superficial in comparison to the deeply engrained pragmatism, reverence for wealth and property, and political ambition to preserve the economic status quo (e.g. capitalism) is as compelling and I think accurate today as it ever has been.
Reading older but well-written works of history is always fascinating: a snapshot of their perception of the times, and what they thought rang through to the then-present day. Lasch’s introduction to my edition, though itself dated, does a swell job locating this at the beginning of history’s turn away from Beard’s exclusively-economic interpretations of the American Revolution and more. My favorite chapters/essays were those on the “duds” and losers of American History like Bryan and Hoover: Hofstadter captures their original appeal (and occasional, broken-clock accuracy) while showing where they went awry.
I'm a huge fan of Richard Hofstadter's work, so it is not surprising that I thoroughly enjoyed The American Political Tradition.
Described as a "kind of intellectual history of the assumptions behind American politics," the book is a series of sketches of major American political figures, from the Founders to Franklin D.
Roosevelt.
I found those on Andrew Jackson, Abraham Lincoln and Herbert Hoover very interesting and enlightening.
Of course, one of the joys of any Hofstadter work is his outstanding prose--always clear, frequently Olympian, and occasionally very humorous.
I highly recommend this to anyone with an interest in American history.
Long essays on 10 sometimes angry, sometimes inspirational, sometimes straight up awful men who influenced American politics and thinking. There are also two essays more about the times and culture during the creation of the United States and its post-Civil War issues, which occasionally feel a bit like Woolf's 'Time Passes' chapter in To the Lighthouse. Hofstadter is quickly becoming my favorite American historian.
This is more like a series of biographies than iris it is a book on American Political Traditions. Many of the individuals portrayed in the Berkeley appear to be superficial and opportunistic. Lincoln, Teddy Roosevelt, & F.D.R. Appears to have been somewhat superficial, impressionable and self-promoting. Hoover and Calhoun appear to be rigid and limited by their own world views.
Still useful and very readable
Though laudably non-hagiographic, Hofstadter primarily busies himself with a tiresome psychologistic Great Man survey for which I had little use.
[the] very lack of confidence in the American future and of a positive program of ideas increases popular faith in the wonder-working powers of the great man." The determination to opt-out, which Olson was not the first to screw up the courage to do, entails a more rigorous self-exclusion from the processes of sussing fact from the fables of great men.
. ." Hofstadter remarks: "[It] seems too fanciful to command respect." Yet it is Hoover's call against the League, against intervention in 1938, that was a "public sentiment which [FDR] could not safely disregard" until admirers like Olson began to flee the administration in the summer of 1944.
I particularly enjoyed the chapters on the founders, Jefferson, Hoover, and FDR.This book would have really benefitted from a more thorough summary of the American Political Tradition (APT) as Hofstadter sees it, but, alas, few of his books spell out their fascinating theses as clearly as I'd prefer.
Overall, a pattern emerges of American political figures acting as the umpire of economic activity, yet taking increasingly expansive and permanent roles in the market and in people's daily lives.The book is at its most interesting in the chapters on Hoover and FDR.
If you have never read Hofstadter, or heard of him, he is an American historian and intellectual who has written several books on the socio-political state of America.
Calhoun, Abraham Lincoln, Wendell Phillips, William Jennings Bryan, Theodore Roosevelt, Woodrow Wilson, Herbert Hoover and Franklin D.
Hofstadter throughout the book analysis political trends and thinking that emerged during the lives of these men.
This argument has seldom fitted the facts of American life, where party structure has been so rigid that minorities, instead of being focused in either majority party when it was out, have rather had to surrender their traditional party ties and - in most cases - drown alone in the political seas” (Hofstadter).
The presidency itself is the perfect expression of this American ideal of the individual--the sole executive wielding unequalled power domestically and on the world stage.
Particularly in Lincoln and FDR, I saw that many of the presidents judged most favorably by history do not fit this mold of the capable executive with deeply held beliefs and a conviction to lead people even in disregard of public opinion.
In fact, the most successful leaders in our history fit a much different type, of a leader as a type of lens, gathering the broad spectrum of political, social, and popular sentiments and forces and mitigating them, producing in policy and action something of a compromise or best consensus.
Not at all what I was expecting, but a great read none the less. Instead of a comprehensive narrative, this book is twelve essays about the men who shaped American politics. Hofstadter is fair, too fair in some cases, but it allows you to learn about many important figures without alot of the modern poltical baggage attached. If you're short on time the Andrew Jackson, Spoilsmen, Wilson, Hoover & FDR essays are excellent and not too long.
Historical novels, fictionalized biographies, collections of pictures and cartoons, books on American regions and rivers, have poured forth to satisfy a ravenous appetite for Americana.
An awareness of history is always a part of any culturally alert national life; but I believe that what underlies this overpowering nostalgia of the past fifteen years is a keen feeling of insecurity.
The most common vision of national life, in its fondness for the panoramic backward gaze, has been that of the observation–car platform." Long ago, Horace White observed that the Constitution of the United States "is based upon the philosophy of Hobbes and the religion of Calvin.
Consensus view of US history, that politicians were often closer on issues than they were far apart
Hofstadter was a bit ashamed of this book and with somewhat good reason.
It is an iconoclastic work in which certain "great" politicians are taken to task and their weaknesses exposed, sometimes with love (Jefferson, Lincoln) and sometimes bitterly (Theodore Roosevelt, Bryan).
Hofstadter later wrote that this moderation theme was accidental and over-stated, but it seems fairly clear within the portraits, which are mostly balanced.
The chapter on Theodore Roosevelt is the most shrill and dreary.
It holds up in part because it is iconoclastic; we still worship the men discussed, with Lincoln and Franklin D.
What distinguishes it though is the conversation is not one between traditional thinkers in the grand style, but between a series of American politicians.
Hofstader does not even focus all his attention on those political theorizers like Thomas Jefferson and Woodrow Wilson; he gives equal weight to those less often examined for their intellectual undergirding, like Andrew Jackson and William Jennings Bryan.
Calhoun as "The Marx of the Master Class," the very embodiment of the reactionary economic thinker, gives one real insights into his motivation.
