https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1199082.The_Winslow_Boy
(Sadly, young George lived to be only 19, dying in World War I at the first battle of Ypres.)Acclaimed 20th-century British playwright Terence Rattigan took this real-life incident as the basis for this play, changing the names of the people involved (George Archer Shee becomes Ronnie Winslow, for instance), and changing some details, some character's ages, etc., and fictionalizing some plot lines, but keeping the essential premise intact.
This is a work that stands out, especially in its beacon-like moral clarity, in contrast to the bleak nihilism of so much English-language drama in the later 20th century.
Before he took the case, the barrister who was to represent him subjected the boy to questioning to test his story, only accepting once he had satisfied himself of the boy's innocence.The theme of the lawsuit was "Let Right be Done" which recognizes the operative principle that what is legal does not mean it is right.If Sir Robert Morton were to appear in the courts today I wonder if his ringing cry for right would move the hardened hearts of the justice system.
Favorite quote(s):Sir Robert Morton“I have a point of order, Mr. Speaker.
Do you recognize their source?
From BBC Radio 4 Extra:"It is easy to do justice - very hard to do right".Let Right Be Done. A father battles to prove the innocence of his son, accused of stealing a postal order at his Edwardian naval college. His stubborn quest sparks reverberations at the House of Commons.Stars Michael Aldridge as Arthur Winslow, Pauline Letts as Grace Winslow, Sarah Badel as Catherine Winslow, MichaeI Maloney as Dickie Winslow, John McAndrew as Ronnie Winslow and Nicholas Courtney as the Attorney-General.Adapted from Terence Rattigan's stage and TV scripts and directed by Ian CotterellFirst broadcast on BBC Radio 4 in 1986.http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b0129678
Script, and Film and radio play
Excerpt -- Best. Repartee. Ever.CATHERINEFather, I've been a fool.ARTHURHave you, my dear?CATHERINEAn utter fool.ARTHURIn default of further information, I can only repeat: Have you, my dear?CATHERINEThere can be no further information. I'm under a pledge of secrecy.
This play asks: where does personal dignity and honor intersect with the good of all citizens?
At which injustice does the line of tranny begin?This play is about a father and daughter’s quest for justice for their son/brother and asks important questions such as “what is the distinction between right and justice?” and “how far would you go to see right done?
What happens when those sacrifices are not yours?” and “what if the easier, better path for everyone involved would have been to let it go?”A smart, sometimes coy, funny, and sweet story hiding a wealth of important questions in the folds of its fabric.
Eventually his name is cleared, but only after the intervention of eminent QC Sir Robert Morton (Aubrey Woods), who takes the case to the House of Commons and the High Court.
Ronnie is the subject of the entire case and he tries to live a normal life midst the extraordinary circumstances taking place around him.
It is through the character of Ronnie that the reader can reflect on the merits of the case: did the Winslows do the right thing by pursuing it to its farthest extent, or would they have been better off abandoning the whole thing?
اول عمل اقرأه لتيرنس راتيجانتدور الاحداث حول طفل يتهم زورا بالسرقه واب يناضل لاثبات براءه ابنهودع الحق يأخذ مجراه كان شعار القضيهتضحى الاخت بخطيبها الذى تحب فى سبيل نصره اخيها ويظهر الخطيب ضعيف الشخصيه امام والدهيوقف الاخ ااكبر تعليمه ع مضض منه ف سبيل توفير النقود للقضيهويكسب الطفل القضيهدور المحامى الاكثر من رائعانا سعيد لانى عشت حتى أرى ابنى يأخذ حقهمن السهل انتصار العدل انما انتصار الحق كانت اجمل الاقتباساتاتمنى حقا مشاهده الفيلم واتمنى ان تجد كيت اخت الفتى وينسلو من يهيم حبا بها حتى تكون نهايه الفيلم العربى
This is a great play - I love the family interactions throughout the story. The subtleness of the character study may make the plot seem a bit slow, but the point of the play is the people, not the action. It has a great message, but without being heavy-handed about it.FYI - David Mamet's movie is a fantastic version, and stays very true to Rattigan's play. Definitely worth checking out if you enjoyed reading the original.
so glad this wasn't the book i thought i was reading. after the first 10 pgs or so i was settling in for a moby dick-type plot, family is destroyed by father's quest for justice blah blah. i kept thinking, why can't this be about kate instead. and then it kind of was. and then i thought, she needs to lose that fiance and go into politics herself. AND SHE DID. this almost never happens. i'm so happy.
I was about 13 when I read The Winslow Boy. Ever since then the courthouse is a dreadful place, and I believe it was from the fear that I developed as I went through various motions with the young Winslow. Great read for all ages.
I really enjoyed reading this play! The story was interesting and filled with witty dialogue, a strong cast of characters, an interesting and thought provoking subject and all in a relatively short script.
A great, short read.
It was an interesting book showing the legnths family members go for each other.
“(…) This victory is not mine, it is the people who have triumphed - as they always will triumph - over despotism.”_____________________________The Winslow Boy es una obra de teatro publicada en el año 1946 y basada en un hecho real.
Ronnie Winslow tiene 14 años y es estudiante en el Royal Naval College; antes de terminado el año escolar es expulsado y enviado a su casa con una carta para su padre en donde se explica que Ronnie es culpable de haber robado 5 chelines correspondientes a un giro postal.
What a beautiful play about family, loyalty and sacrifice. It made me cry a number of times throughout. Catherine is an amazing woman - strong minded, powerful, self assured, confident, and yet feels so deeply without letting her emotions take over or cloud her judgement. And I wish I had an Arthur in my life to advocate for me as he does for Ronnie. Even the sacrifice Sir Robert makes is entirely unexpected and yet so touching, for a case that could be considered so trivial but for the purpose of it simply being RIGHT. Love love loved it.
It's easy to claim and get justice but it's a challenge to claim and get right done.The book is a must read for parents and teachers as it appeals you to know your child and believe in him.
I don't have many words for this. I'm actually speechless. With this book, we get an insight in how people lived during those times, and what happens to a boy living during that time. It's beautiful.
Justice Be Done Great play and both movies. Entertaining on the issue of justice. Is it truly in the public interest to sacrifice individual rights on occasion in the name of public good? "Let right be done."
Apparently this was meant to be really revolutionary when it was first performed but I don’t think it’s stood the test of time. I even went to see a performance last night and I still found it pretty boring
Definitely my favourite reading piece in my literature class! 5/5 stars! "Let right be done" <3!
PUNTUACIÓN: 2.5 estrellas
i did this for school. i love catherine.
I’m having to pace myself on Terence Rattigan’s plays, because, after reading my first one earlier this summer, I want to devour his entire oeuvre immediately.
As it is, I’m trying to limit myself to one play a month (although that play is usually read in one sitting).The Winslow Boy did not help my fascination.
The action takes place entirely in the family’s sitting room and, similar to The Deep Blue Sea, which took place over the course of one day, I loved the intimacy the limitation creates.The play’s central theme is the cost of justice.
I remember seeing the 1999 film version of The Winslow Boy some years back and liking it, but for some reason reading the original play impressed me even more, though the film was a faithful adaptation.
Perhaps it's the structure of the play that's more dramatic, or perhaps there's simply more to it that I didn't recall from the film.
The characters and the pre-WWI setting are alive on the page, the play itself an absorbing and thought-provoking study of justice and the cost of standing for conviction.
Overall I thoroughly enjoyed reading this, and I couldn't help wondering what it would be like to see it performed on stage.
The stress of taking up a book reading challenge is a bit too much!The stress got to me so much that last night it came to me in a dream that this book had been prescribed in school and i had read it! I am fudging the date so as to keep up with my challenge. :PA faint memory of it being a nice readable read is all that persists
Who knew that justice at a military school for boys could be arbitrary?The expositional telephone conversation at the start of the last scene was pretty bad. Sort of: "Hello? Yes? The same, five months later? A stifling hot afternoon in June – nearly two years less one month since the boy's dismissal from Osborne?"
Suggested by a friend; found it 'veddy British'. I could hardly find the love story, it was so restrained. As a whole, though, rather like a bonsai: small and perfect. Then saw movie, directed by David Mamet (fast, furious, frequently foul-mouthed American!!!), and it was also lovely and also restrained. Four stars to each!
I was made to read this at school, I don't know why because it had no relevance in the 1980s. I suspect it had been put on my school's reading list when it was first published and no-one ever thought to remove it. Besides which it's grim and boring. I hope modern children don't have to endure the same experience.
I've really enjoyed this Rattigan's play! He touched so many issues and relationships between man and woman or parents and children, sacrifices for justice. Also such a inspiring and strong characters! Story filled with so many emotions! The interesting reading indeed.
