https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/510070.The_Cat_Who_Turned_On_and_Off
Review  3+ of 5 stars to Lilian Jackson Braun's The Cat Who Turned On and Off, the third book in her "Cat Who" cozy mystery series. In this adventure, Qwill and the cats take on the investigation of Junktown, an antiquing area of his hometown city. And as you'd expect, someone meets their maker. Qwill begins to come out of his shell in this book, making new friends and introducing us to some who will eventually follow him to Moose Country. Iris Cobb is one of my favorite characters and she's i
Qwill begins to come out of his shell in this book, making new friends and introducing us to some who will eventually follow him to Moose Country.
Iris Cobb is one of my favorite characters and she's in a lot of the early books.I read this one when I was in a bit of my own antiquing phase, shortly after I bought a house and needed to fill it with a bunch of knick-knacks.
Only way to find out is to read it.What's good about this book is the relationships that Qwill develops with people around him, beginning to show us what his friendship with Arch Riker has been like in the past.
So this episode sees Jim assigned to write a piece on Junktown where all the antique dealers are based.
Now temporarily homeless and with yum yum in tow as well as Koko, Jim eventually finds a place to rent in Junktown.
Needless to say he and the cats soon get embroiled in another murder investigation just before Christmas 🎄 This involves horse brasses, chandeliers, roll top desks, abandoned cinemas, a whole raft of interest but suspicious people and of course Jim’s bristling moustache.
Once again it’s Koko (and Yum Yum) helpfully adding their catly insight to solve the murders.
Another great cozy (cat) mystery.
I've run across these cat books over and over through the years and always thought something like How lame.
But Lilian Braun's cats are charming, with personalities, and are not the main characters, really, and don't show up on every page.
This book reminded me of an Agatha Christie--high praise from me--where you suspect and dislike almost every character at some point or other.
I mean, if you use up all your alloted word count before the last chapter, cut down on some other chapter, not the all-important reveal at the end.
Please.But I'm not going to look down my nose at cat books any more.
At least not Lilian Braun's.
This is the third Lilian Jackson Braun novel that held my interest from stem to stern and that says something!
If you’re enthralled and pages fly, it’s a five-star book!Another disparity argues heedlessness of chronology.
Jim’s second Siamese is introduced in the former novel.
They moved house in every book and previous novels explain those circumstances.
He occasionally contacts characters he knew.
This is a pivotal marker in the series’ life.
Whatever drove her to revitalize her characters in 1986, thank you.
Jim’s job has appeal and so do his feline family dynamics.
This is my first Cat Who book, though it is the third in the series.
The cats were definitely true to life, which I appreciated.
I think the MC is older, maybe in his 40s, it wasn't quite clear.
I don't think women were portrayed overly well.
Not horrifically sexist, but not great.The author has a great turn of phrase."In December the weather declared war."That sentence says it all, doesn't it?
Not a bad book, I liked it enough to read it through and will probably read more in the series.
I would recommend this as a cute cozy series if you like cats.
This time, Qwill's beat was: antiques.
In his quest to win a much-needed monetary prize for writing, he decides on a series of articles about Junktown, a decrepit area of the city famous for it's moldering buildings and many antique stores with silly names.
I loved the way characters were constantly questioning how people who own these shops can possibly make a living - I ask myself this every single time I enter one.
It's confirmed that he was once a well known and much-lauded crime writer in New York city; that alcoholism played a role in his fall from grace, and that his ex-wife lives in Connecticut and he still sends her money.
**This book is signed and has Koko's paw print**3.5 StarsI love these cozy mysteries. Today was a perfect day to finish the bumblings and insights of old Qwill and his intelligent, but finicky cat Koko. Story takes place in Junktown, when an antiques dealer has an accident that is not so accidental. With a lot of legwork and a mustache that won't quit; Qwill saves the day again. ...or is that Koko??
The third Cat Who series introduces Iris Cobb and the story is still great 45 years later! Can you imagine a taxi ride for two people for $1. Braun introduces new characters and blends in the already familiar ones. A pleasant read.
серія про кота, який..., не те щоб може похвалитися дуже заплутаними детективними сюжетами, але їй і не обов'язково.
по-перше, тут є коти (сіами; від другої частини – дві штуки), які сплять, їдять, співають і у вільний час скеровують головного героя на правильний шлях у розкритті злочинів, що, з одного боку, трохи бог-із-машини, але з іншого – таки чарівно.
по-друге, ліліан джексон браун у кожній книжці будує нові декорації: її героєві, колись кримінальному репортерові, на новій роботі весь час призначають дивні завдання – у першій частині він писав про митців, у другій про дизайнерів інтер'єрів, у цій-от про антикварів (і скрізь кояться вбивства, хе-хе).
I was skeptical of this book at first.
Wasn’t sure if I’d like a book where the cat “helps” solve the mystery.
It was nothing like I thought it would be, I actually really enjoyed it.
Yes the cat helps but it’s very minimal and not unbelievable.
The main character, Jim Quilleran, a reporter/ investigator is very much like an American version of Agatha Christie’s Hercule Poirot.
He’s very proper and fussy but also flawed.
I enjoyed the other characters in this book as well as the story itself.
It was a fun easy read and I will read more of these books.
"But I used to study them for their grace of movement when I was dancing."You share a common habitation on a basis of equal rights and mutual respect...although somehow the cat always comes out ahead of the deal.
Siamese particularly have a way of getting the upper hand."Some of Braun's descriptions make me laugh - She ushered him into the cozy living room, which was done entirely in matching paisley - paisley fabric on the walls, paisley draperies, paisley slipcovers - all in warm tones of beige, brown and gold.
The fabric gave the room the stifling hush of a closed coffin.
I love this series. I'm going back and re-reading it in order, and I think I've finally found one I hadn't read before. In this story, Qwilleran moves to a neighborhood full of antiques dealers. There are many odd characters. This early in the series, Qwill is much more interested in meeting women, he hasn't inherited any money, and he still lives in "the big city." Re-visiting these characters is so nostalgic for me, and it's fascinating to see how everything plays out as I follow the characters chronologically.
Qwill has now switched his beat to the antiques world, situated in Junktown.
And the characters themselves were just as unattractive, including a grumpy old man, an overly dramatic former actor, a millionaire's daughter in disguise, an overly amorous dealer, and others.
As a rule, I like Braun's characters and the lightness of her books, but this one was set in Junktown, an area filled with antique shops that didn't sound very appealing.
The secondary characters were somewhat unattractive, and overall the book left a feeling of dissatisfaction.
I've read now this book two times, and found things the second time I didn't catch the first.
It's been a long time since reading the first time.
Qwill, Yum-yum and KoKo move to Junktown with this is one of the first books in Braun's series.
I love these books for light, fluffy furry reads.
This book in particular is the third in the Cat Who series.
I loved going back to the beginning of the series and seeing Qwilleran, Koko and Yum Yum in their more humble origins.
Koko and Yum Yum are definitely the main characters and the best parts of the series.
I have been reading this series for years and it was one of the set of books that my mom and I read at the same time.
I love these books for light, fluffy reads.
This book in particular is the third in the Cat Who series.
I loved going back to the beginning of the series and seeing Qwilleran, Koko and Yum Yum in their more humble origins.
I also learned where Qwilleran met Mrs. Cobb who plays a large role later on in the series.
Koko and Yum Yum are definately the main characters and the best parts of the series.
I do wish I could have read these books in order. This was one of the early ones, before he moved to Pickax and became a billionaire. Once I have all of these in my collection, I will start reading them all over.
For those of you following my feed who are growing concerned and/or bored with my continuing consumption of cat themed murder mysteries, please be aware that I just purchased a three volume omnibus. There is no end in sight. I am reliving my weird 7th grade reading habits and refuse to apologize.
Schön war dabei auch, das ich mich nicht mehr an den Täter erinnern konnte und so das Buch noch einmal als ganzes genießen konnte.
Jim ist weiterhin ein sympathischer Charakter und das nicht nur weil er die 2 Katzen aus seinem beiden vorherigen Fällen adoptiert hat.
Da ich aber den Rest der Bücher in dieser Form habe, wie sie oben gezeigt wird, möchte ich auch gerne dabei bleiben.Natürlich ist das Design nicht mehr das Neuste, aber es passt, da ich weiß welches Alter die Bücher bereits haben.Die neuste Auflage der Bücher gibt es übrigens bei dotbooks, allerdings nur als E-Books.Ein spannender Fall, in einem interessanten Milieu und mit vielversprechenden Charakteren.
3.5 StarsChallenges:♥ RRRC January 2018 Monthly Challenge #10 - Reader's Choice♥ By the Numbers Quarterly Challenge - 7 Words
When he proposes to the feature editor, Arch Riker, his idea to profile the antique store owners and their customers, Riker loves the idea, especially since his wife Rosie is a 'junker'.It isn't long before Qwilleran learns the Junktown community is in mourning over a shocking death of one of their own.
Besides making new friends, and thankfully, finding a great apartment he rents in back of an old antique shop, he decides to find out if Glanz's death was an accident or a murder.
A fun whodunit.
His mustache resembles Mark Twain'sKoko: Male Siamese cat with 60 whiskers, who helps Qwill solve mysteriesYum Yum: Dainty female Siamese catAndy Glanz: Antique dealer who "fell" from a ladder, impaling himself on a roof finial - or was it murder?Mary Duckworth: also called The Dragon - owner of a very up-scale antique shop in Junktown.
Former girl friend of Andy GlanzC.C. Cobb: A grouchy, loud mouthed antique dealerMrs. Iris Cobb: Wife of C.C., and also runs their antique shop.
She sets Qwill up in an apartment above their antique shop in "Junktown"Ben Nicholas: a junk dealer who also rents an apt.
in the order I've found them or they have happened in my eyes.Only after I recently read The Cat Who Ate Danish Modern, did I discover that the oldest ones are very different.
The first 3 were published between 1966 and 1968, and the rest of the books 20+ years after that.The world in which Qwill lives is rather different.
The main tool was typewriter, and no one (civil) could envisition things like internet back then.
But I discovered I like the series, so now after reading book 2, I read book 1, and book 3 for now.
In the 3rd book in the series, Qwill decides to write a series about Junktown at Christmas.
Junktown is a run-down area with abandoned houses and decay, but is also the area where the antique dealers live and work.
Qwill moves into an apartment over Iris Cobb's Junkery.
He learns that a young junk dealer died mysteriously about two months before.
Before the first week is up, Iris' husband dies by falling down stairs while scrounging for building fixtures in an abandoned mansion.
I think I am just in the wrong time period to really enjoy these books.
Qwill goes to Junktown, which he thinks is a den of criminals and drugs.
Instead it is full of Junk Shops, catering to people who like....well, junk.
All the while several people have died and his twitchy mustache and crafty cats are telling him there is something bigger going on.
I find it hard to like Qwilleran, he is a total misogynist; more interested in how a woman looks to him or makes him feel, than her being a person.
A solid 3 stars. This is a good, solid plot for a cozy mystery. Qwill is smart and funny. The antique/junk plot is interesting and the villain is not telegraph as much. The fauna of characters is fun and not paper thin. We meet Iris Cobbs for the first time. Love her. So yeah, 3 solid stars.
Murder among antique dealers and much shenanigans ensue when Jim moves in.
1st time read - Paperback2nd time read - Kindle
How delightful to read a story without too many plot twists or sordid sex scenes. A pleasure to be taken back to a time when language was used appropriately and people had manners.
