https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/106109.The_47_Ronin_Story
A very strangely written book.written without alot of passion in story or charactersmore like a history essay. but saying that there's something in the story which keeps you hooked till the end. The final battle scene not a lot to say about it apart from its very clinically cleanly written as is the where we findout happened to all the people in the book.I may give the fantasy version a read to see what that is like.
Could barely tell them apart because the author attached no uniqueness to them.The setting and environment, where depth of descriptions and cultural laminations should have been laid one atop the other to form a contextual feel (an important facet of historical fiction), were completely missing.The best way for me to describe the lack of layers to this story is to say that I do not believe the author knew enough about the Japanese mind to write this book.
Rating: 2/5 Summary: 47 Ronin seek justice for their executed lord.Review: There are certain aspects of this story that I liked such as the plot and the cultural details of the time period.
However, the characters, style of writing, and emotional connection/passion just wasn't there.The feudal Japanese culture is vastly different from the modern Western way of thought, it was hard to understand some of the actions, and the reasoning and state of mind of the characters that led to the decisions they made.
It also had an interesting plot based on a true story with fascinating feudal Japanese cultural details that I loved.
This book did not fully deliver my expectations. Reading it felt like a large task. The subject of the story was interesting, but the way it was told is flat. However, I was able to drag myself to finish it and picking up bits and pieces of gems within the story.I am giving the author a lot of credit for introducing plenty of cultural nuances in this book. I just wished the presentation was more personal instead of keeping me at a distance.
I put the book down until later, maybe a few years, and then pick it back up and think it's great.
The story follows these now-masterless samurai, called ronin, through their path to ultimate revenge.Some of the most interesting things for me in the book were how well the book described life in the era.
Even the climax showed just how Japan functioned, how samurai carried themselves and how revenge was settled.If you're at all interested in Japanese history, or like stories of intrigue and honor, I'd definitely suggest this book for you.
Bagaimana rasanya kalau kita tahu kita akan pensiun sebentar lagi?Oishi dan keseluruhan prajurit Ako merasakan kecemasan dan dendam yang luar biasa saat tuannya, Asano Naganori harus melakukan  seppuku  karena telah menyerang Kira, sang pemimpin upacara istana yang korupsi.Bab-bab di pertengahan membuat saya mengingat masa-masa awal pensiun Bapak saya. Perasaan beliau mungkin hampir sama. Merasa tidak lagi diandalkan.Para samurai klan Asano merasa tidak berguna karena tidak dapat membalas dendam
Perasaan menjadi 'sampah' itu membuat semangat membalas dendam mereka, terutama Hara dan Horibe, semakin berapi-api.Oishi pun nyaris kehilangan akal, bahkan Kataoka dan Yoshida tak tau bagaimana membujuk agar anak buahnya mampu menahan diri, setidaknya sampai petisi yang mereka ajukan ke Shogun ditolak.
Oishi mencari akal agar rencana ia membawa anak buahnya mendapat penggalan kepala Kira tercapai tanpa ada hambatan dari klan Eusugi maupun prajurit Shogun.Bahasa buku ini lebih mirip ke bahasa buku sejarah.
Nyaris persis jika dibandingkan dengan source lain yang coba saya googling.Hanya saja, karena ini novel berdasarkan sejarah, akhir cerita nya tidak bisa dirubah (atau diubah?).
The 47 Ronin story, is a legendary Japanese tale about honor, and what lengths people will go to in order to achieve such honor.
I did this not because I think that the story itself is dull or uninteresting but I think that the way John Allyn wrote the book was less interesting than it could have been.
I also thought that the book was lacking in character voice throughout the story which just added on to the dullness of the writing.
However, I do not think that John Allyn can be fully blamed for the dull writing in this book.
Когато честта е по-важна от живота: http://knigolandia.info/book-review/i...Нивга не ще разбера японците – или поне онези, останали в историята, не днешните озападнили се бизнесмени.
Разбира се, няма да поставям оценка, делят ни не само векове, но и коренно различни житейски философии.
Пределно наясно съм, че не е възможно наистина да разбера какво е имало в главата на тези 47 самураи, които търпеливо търсят начин да отмъстят за екзекуцията на своя господар, дори и да знаят, че това автоматично ще им коства живота.Colibri Books﻿http://knigolandia.info/book-review/i...
In the beginning I have to say that I am not a big fan of books set in Japan/Asia, and that I wanted to use this book to get a bit out of my comfort zone and perhaps find interest in this setting. After finishing it, I have to say that it did not happen. The book had some engaging moments, but most of the time it felt more like a summary or a report about a story. The couple of dialogues and interesting cultural details could not save it. This is not a book I could recommend. 2.5 stars
However, you cannot help but admire what they had done and carried out with such integrity and in the end, they accepted the fate of their lawbreaking with grace because they KNOW what they did was wrong.
So they carried out seppuku with honour, believing that they had live their life with integrity as befits their station [as samurai].
The book [nearly] moved me to tears as it was heartbreaking to read how these band of samurai plotted revenge and made sacrifices to their cause, with the knowledge that they will lose their life in the end.A keeper for those who love Japanese culture and history.
Themes of honor, loyalty, ritual suicide and acting in accord with the Samuri code of conduct make this read important.
After Lord Asano is allowed ritual suicide, his samuri lose their lands and homes.
They become ronin, duty bound to avenge their master's death.
That thought led to remembering other people who chose suicide over execution.
The acts I have mentioned and those of the forty seven ronin differ from wars where soldiers do not know whether they will live or die in battle.
I thank the author for reporting the acts of forty seven ronin in a narrative or book form.
The introduction to this book was not helpful to the experience of reading it.
The professor from the United Kingdom places a nice heavy judgment on the acts of the Samurai in perpetrating an attack over a slight to their leader.
The story as told by this author creates a totally understandable and non-western justification for the attack by these Ronin.
It dramatically affects the story and places a skeptical taste in one's mouth before one even reads the book.
I nearly took the book back after reading the introduction.
The introduction has nearly no critical value to the story as told.
Shogun, samurai, and seppuku are not common words in my vocabulary but I do understand the concepts of greed, corruption, honor, loyalty, revenge, bravery and cunning -- all of which are in abundance in this 18th century Japanese story based on real life events.
(3,5 estrelas)Esse é um livro para leitores fascinados com a cultura do Japão feudal, que se encantam com a filosofia samurai de honra, sacrifício e lealdade.Uma história maravilhosamente escrita, que nos aproxima dos personagens de uma forma carismática, que nos transmite empatia e que conquista o coração do leitor mais indiferente. É impossível parar de ler!Essa é uma história parte da regra que "quanto menos você souber, melhor"; então deixo por aqui a minha indicação. Pessoalmente, também quero muito assistir o filme!
الرواية تحكي قصة 47 ساموراي في محاولة إنتقامهم لقتل الساموراي الي تسبب بقتل زعيمهم، القصة تأخذ منحى مثير جداً للإهتمام مع تقدمك فيها، ما أعجبني تعامل الكاتب وتقديمه للجانب الرومنسي في القصة وحسيت إنه شيء حطه كتحصيل حاصل فقط.عدا عن ذلك، تعجبت لما عرفت أن الرواية مبنية على حدث تاريخي معروف وله عدة مسرحيات وروايات كتبت.47 Ronin is the story of 47 samurais whom master was killed. The way the story is presented was good and I liked how epic it felt. The only problem I have with it is that the romantic aspect felt forced.Overall, I really enjoyed it.
Aye, in introduction I was warned about the questionable value of "heroism" of 47 Ronin, the "cause" of their honor revenge. But, it still touched me. They are just solid! Unshaken. And Oishi, maaannnn, he should be the Daimyo himself, instead of Lord Asano, he was even equal the Shogun leader. But hey, this is a funny world. And the concept of heroism can be strangely funny as well.
In the beginning, we are introduced to Lord Asano, leader of the Asano clan and ruler of his land in Ako. We are also introduced to Kira, the “Master of Ceremonies,” a title granted to him by the Shogun.
However, tempers within the samurai begin flare as Oishi, the leader of the samurai, forces the samurai to wait, is constantly spied on, and is thought to have tarnished his reputation, causing controversy within the group.
Kira is swiftly killed, and, finally at peace, the samurai turn themselves in, later being subjected to the same ritual suicide as Lord Asano.
The 47 Ronin is a historically accurate tale of honor, patience, and loyalty.
Di novel 47 Ronin ini pun demikian.Memang berkisha tentang 47 Ronin (samurai tanpa taun shogun) yang melakukan pembalasan dendam atas kematian dan penghinaan atas Tuan mereka, Lord Asano.Digambarka betapa bobroknya kondisi shogun Edo di tahun 1701.
Meski banyak samurai terpancing emosi dan menghendaki langsung menyerang sebagai tindak balasan, Oishi mencegah hal konyol itu terjadi.
Belum lagi, saat mereka berpencar dengan awasan penuh dari pihak Lord Kira, koordinasi dan menjaga kesamaan janji semakin susah.Namun Oishi berhasil membuktikannya.
Bahwa martabat seseorang dinilai dari bagaimana mereka menjaga komitmen pada nilai-nilai yang diyakini.Aku suka sekali bagaimana Oishi memeberi nasihat kepada anaknnya Chikara:Beberapa orang menghabiskan seumur hidup tanpa tahu jalan mana yang benar.
There are many wonderful aspects to this novel, but there are also just a couple of things that got under my skin.Things that I loved about this book?
I believe that Allyn does a phenomenal job at illustrating this culture and the beliefs of the Japanese society, both of the samurai who become ronin, as well as the higher up, wealthier men in this era to his audience rather well.
But I will confess, that the quick action of the climax was a very nice ending to the story overall.
Overall, The 47 Ronin Story was a spectacular read, especially if you can be patient with it.
What had enraged the loyal followers of Lord Asano, back at the castle of Ako, was the fact that Kira was still alive, days after Lord Asano’s death.
Faced with confiscation of the castle by the Shogun, and the prospect of becoming ronin, the remaining loyal Samurai of Ako, led by Oishi, plot to avenge to avenge Lord Asano by murdering Kira in his own home.
I quite enjoyed reading this book because it offers a personal view into the lives of Oishi and the other ronin.
Или просто трябва да коленичат пред замъка и всички колективно да извършат сепуку в знак на протест срещу нечестната присъда?"От „Историята на 47-те ронини“ можем да научим кои са четирите класически вида японски театър; как се наричат петте главни пътя в Япония; как се именуват храмовете посветени съответно на Буда или Конфуций, а също така много и най-различни забележителни подробности характерни за Страната на изгряващото слънце в началото на оесмнайсети век.Отново бих желал да ви предложа като цитат една заповед на шогуна, която без никакво съмнение е абсолютно неразбираема за съвременния европеец:"Първо на внука на господаря Х., Сахьои, неспособен да се бие до смърт в защита на собствения си родственик, се заповядва да се изкорми собственоръчно веднага щом стане физически способен на това."Бих желал да формулирам всичко, което научих от тази книга по следния начин:Този, който е абсолютен злодей, без значение дали е мъж или жена, и през по-голямата част от живота си прави зло на хората само за да удовлетвори неутолимата си алчност, рано или късно си получава заслуженото./РЕВЮ НА РАДИ РАДЕВ/http://colibri.bg/knigi/842/dzhon-ali...
Their leader, Lord Asano, has been killed by Lord Kira, the emperor of Edo (Tokyo).
Kira had Asano executed, and disbanded the Ronin.
From the time that Asano lashes out at Kira, to the tireless training of Oishi as he prepares for battle, to the stealthy invasion of Kira's mansion, to the huge battle at the end, this book is definitely full of action.
I would recommend for people who enjoy action books.
I would also recommend it to people who have interest in Japan, for this book is sure to satisfy your tastes.
They loved having festivals such as new years day.
In 1702, Naganori Asano-Takuminokami was on a ceremonial visit to Shogun Tsunayoshi, but when he was insulted by a greedy and conceited courtier, Lord Asano struck him with his sword, violating the law, and resulting in his own order to commit ceremonial suicide.
With the Asano estates forfeit to the Shogunate, all of his samurai were made masterless samurai or ronin.Determined to regain their honor through killing the courtier for his role in their master's death, 47 of the ronin bided their time, and struck back at their hated enemy.
And with that, the 47 ronin passed from this life into legend.This is a moving book, and is much better than I had expected.
Great!: This wonderful book is a bit of historical fiction that is based on one of the most famous examples of samurai honor and bravery.
In 1702, Naganori Asano-Takuminokami was on a ceremonial visit to Shogun Tsunayoshi, but when he was insulted by a greedy and conceited courtier, Lord Asano struck him with his sword, violating the law, and resulting in his own order to commit ceremonial suicide.
I really enjoyed this great book, this stirring tale of honor, and highly recommend it to you.
They refer to the style.
What better style for a tale of the samurai?
A story of bravery among professional soldiers who shunned superfluousness for duty, honor, & a commitment to professional service should be told this way.
I haven't seen it, but no matter how good it is, it cannot live up to this masterful piece.
A tale of honor, loyalty, professionalism, & commitment that is almost superhuman.
This is a fantastic piece of literature that is a glimpse into the steel of character that makes warriors what they are, & all honorable people exactly that, wether in feudal Japan or 2014.
I choose to read this book years ago for a school report.
This book has it all - war, love, betrayal, murder, sex, honor, dishonor, even comedy!!
And I remember laughing at the absurdity of the situation, in light of the horrors occurring around the Ronin and the Empire.This is a wonderful bit of Japanese history - a fantastic story - and it transcends cultural fiction/non-fiction.
It appeals on so many different levels - this is a fantastic book and well worth spending the time to read it!
If you read the book from the Samurai viewpoint, you'll see that's it's very much in keeping with their traditions: the book is not overly long nor is it profuse with flashy words or verbose passages.
While I believe many readers do not like the book due to the seemingly fanatical and heartless actions taken by Oishi-dono, such as divorcing his wife or taking in Okaru-san, if one looks through the Samurai lens one may see the beautiful, yet tragic singularity of their purpose: Their highest calling is to serve their master, even at the cost of their own existence.
Actually I'm not sure whether 47 Ronins is true story or just a legend. But I remember that Memoirs of Geisha by Arthur Golden mentioned Ichiriki, one of the tea houses in Gion, Kyoto as the basecamp for the ronins while they're planning their revenge.The story is quite simple, actually. Revenge for the master. That's it. After they'd done avenging, they got death sentence from the emperor/daimyo (don't remember) then they commited seppuku gladly. They said that allowed to commit suicide is such a great honor for them because they're no longer a samurai and only a samurai deserved seppuku.
Historical fiction around the infamous samurai who became ronin when their master, Lord Asano, was instructed by the Shogun to commit seppuku for having struck Kira, the Shogun's Master of Ceremonies.
It didn't matter that Kira was a corrupt official.
Lord Asano of Ako's castle and lands were turned over and his samurai became ronin, left to seek their own fortunes without a master.
The ronin were bound together by their fierce determination to seek the justice against Kira and to restore the name of their master, even thought acts of vengeance were outlawed by the Shogun.This is a story of loyalty, determination and vengeance.
I love this story. I grab every film and book of its incarnation and eat it up with joy each time I take it in. I've even visited Senkaku-ji in Tokyo and seen the solemn graves of the characters in this book.This telling is extremely good and realistic (unlike the recent fantasy film of the same name) but a bit tame.
