https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25106926-the-taming-of-the-queen
I was all but ready to stop reading Philippa Gregory’s novels for good, but then I found out that she was writing a novel from the perspective of Henry’s last queen; therefore, this would, no doubt, include the death of the tyrant.
Kathryn Parr was a strong woman but, even she diminished under the chubby palm of this oafish King who was considered by many as a serial killer.Now I know what you’re thinking: it’s not fair to brand Henry as a serial killer.
The author has written Henry VIII as many consider him to be; this may not be a fair representation of him, but this is a historical fiction novel and not an academic biography of him.
This is a romance? Who knew? I'm pretty sure by now we all know that Henry VIII had six wives, Katherine (Kateryn here) Parr being the last. This review will discuss events that are known historical facts - if you're new to Katherine's history those might be considered spoilers - consider yourself warned. Real spoilers for PG's version of history will be tagged as spoilers.Kateryn Parr is widowed and lucky girl (not!) catches the eye of the aging Henry VIII and he proposes marriage. Needless to
Well ------>>>>>real spoilers ahead at PG's version of it, but squick warning, this is so disgusting as how Henry lets Kateryn know who is in charge.
Look at the blurb on the Amazon page:(view spoiler)[Why would a woman marry a serial killer?Because she cannot refuse…Kateryn Parr, a thirty-year-old widow in a secret affair with a new lover, has no choice when a man old enough to be her father who has buried four wives—King Henry VIII—commands her to marry him.Kateryn has no doubt about the danger she faces: the previous queen lasted sixteen months, the one before barely half a year.
Kateryn, Henry VIII’s sixth and last wife, has to endure a difficult life at court with Henry closely watching her every step.
Although Kateryn tries her best to be a good wife, she soon realizes Henry has a ruthless and cruel nature making her marriage insufferable and unbearable.
The writing is exceptional with each chapter becoming more intense keeping the reader well entertained as the Queen attempts to outmanoeuvre the King.
Highly recommended.Thank you to Goodreads giveaway contest and Simon & Schuster Publishing for sending me an advanced copy of The Taming of the Queen.
Asta nu e ca orice altă căsătorie aranjată pentru tine.
E cea mai mare șansă pe care o s-o ai în viață!
E cea mai de seamă căsătorie din Anglia, probabil chiar din întreaga lume!""Este imaginea unei familii regale și eu sunt acolo în el, recunoscută drept mamă a lor.
Sunt regină, sunt regentă, sunt mama lor, portretul îi va înfățișa pe copiii mei în jurul meu, pe soțul meu lângă mine, iar cei care se îndoiesc de influența mea și cred că pot unelti împotriva mea se pot uita la acest portret și vor vedea femeia din inima familiei regale."
3.5 Kateryn Parr, the least known of Henry's wives, this is a good look at this queen and the fear and hope she lived with daily.
As soon as I started reading I was captivated into another reading of Henry and his many wives.I have read previous novels about this queen so there was little in this that was new.
Just not too much new here for me, but to a new reader of this queen, I am sure they will love this and be captivated by this most intelligent queen who managed to outlive the notorious Henry.ARC from NetGalley.
Oh No!Say it ain't so!Philippa Gregory has turned Katherineinto a HO!I couldn't wait to get my hands on this one since the 6th and surviving Queen Katherine has always been my favorite.But alas, within the first few pages I realized Gregory had descended into the hellish inferno of the bodice ripper.When the Queen is not lusting after Tom Seymour she's promoting the Protestant cause with fanatical fervor. This has to be one of the worst depictions of Katherine Parr that I ever tried to read.I'm hoping Gregory will return to her usual form next time.
Her Katherine Parr, a scholarly 31-year-old, sounds exactly like any of the barely schooled teen age girls from her previous books.
Had she been patient enough to write a longer book, one that included the history with Thomas and Elizabeth, one that cared about Parr's intellectual life, then maybe this wouldn't have turned out as yet another story of an old king with a stinky leg and yellow teeth and the tragic prettiest lady at court who was forced to bed him.
"He married all my predecessors; it didn't stop him from wanting the next one."Kateryn Parr was a 30 year old widow who was in a secret relationship, when King Henry VIII decided that she would be his next wife.
Most have heard this rhyme: "Divorced, beheaded, died...divorced, beheaded, survived..."What's a girl to do when the King of England wants you (that's my poor attempt at a rhyme)?She really had no choice but to marry the man who was old enough to be her father.
It was still fun to read Gregory's take on the surviving wife of Henry.
I am not really drawn to reading kings and queens books but give them to me in audio and I will run a mile to get it.As always my ignorance astounds me as I didn’t know anything about Katherine Parr other than that she was an intellectual and Henry’s 6th wife.
She came across as one of the few wives of Henry who genuinely wanted to be a good wife and she was also the only of the later queens that was able to bring all 3 of Henry’s children to court and create a proper family.Now Henry was the bi-polar, paranoid and misogynistic narcissist we have all come to know and loath throughout Phillipa Gregory books but at times I actually felt some compassion for him.
I have come to expect that Philippa Gregory's books are more creative fantasy than historical fact.
It is the worst novel in the increasingly weak new books that Ms Gregory has put forth in the past few years.
I cringe to think how many people will read this and accept her accounts as “history.” There are some truths contained within.
My quarrel is not with the facts contained in the book, but rather in Gregory's writing itself..she tells the story in a dull voice, uses uninspired language, and turns the reading experience into a laborious task.
If you are contemplating reading this book, don't bother.
4.5 stars...I hate to admit it, but I was a little hesitant about reading this newest PG book.
I've read so much Tudor that I just wasn't sure I could possibly enjoy another one.
But I'm happy to admit I was WRONG!
Kateryn Parr comes to life brilliantly.
We instantly empathize with her plight as she struggles through court life as Henry VIII's sixth wife.
His tyrannical, selfish, and paranoid personality also makes such a lifelike image while reading.
Intrigues run rampant as does his temper and Kateryn details it all for us.
The writing is superb and kept me reading (listening) until the very end.
Ms. Gregory's take on Henry VIII's  sixth marriage, with the narrator being wife #6 herself, Kateryn Parr.
Gregory chose  to portray Kateryn as a newlywed haunted by all the ghosts of Henry's past wives, what with Henry constantly revering Jane Seymour, with the hand-me-down clothes and jewels she has to wear, and in her marriage bed (same bedroom; same bed that those before her had occupied).
I couldn't help thinking about her five predecessors either, since I've read every one of the other books in this series, and the book has many reminders.
But if you know Henry  VIII, you know  that his opinions on EVERYTHING change with the wind.
Queen Kateryn's fate is in the hands of that smelly, crazy King.
Labeling Henry VIII a "serial killer" is wildly misleading.
Henry was, like as not, infertile by the time he was with her and she was sleeping with Culpeper who could have easily impregnated her.
While Boleyn's execution was a tragedy and based more on political scheming than actual evidence, this does not a serial killer make.
3. Okay, yeah, Henry wasn't a grand old guy.
Thomas Seymour, Catherine Parr's forbidden love, was a conniving jerk who had really sketchy relations with the 14-year-old princess Elizabeth and manipulated her brother, King Edward, until his untimely death.5.
Gregory seems more keen on writing popular books than good ones these days.
This is a man so sharp with pride that he cannot hear contradiction.
This is a man who will play both sides at once to make sure he wins.
This is a man who from a boy has never been refused.
She is also able to write a complex character like Henry VIII so that I feel sympathy for him in one chapter and then despise him in the next.
I was really intrigued by the mentions of Will Sommers, the Kings fool, and will be reading The Autobiography of Henry VIII: With Notes by His Fool, Will Somers shortly because of this.
4,5 🌟 Was für eine bewegende Geschichte. Ich gebe zu, Philippa Gregorys Nachwort ist das erste, welches ich mit völliger Hingabe lese.... disclaimer: ｅｓ ｋö ｎｎｅｎ ｓｐｏｉｌｅｒ ｆｏｌｇｅｎ... 𝒶𝓊𝓉𝒽𝑜𝓇𝓈 𝓃𝑜𝓉𝑒...It is extraordinary to me that Kateryn the Quene KP (as she signed herself is not better known. As the last of Henry's queens she survived a wife-killer who saw four of her five predecessors into the grave, which must make her one of the most tenacious survivor wives in history. She faced and defeated a s
She served the country as regent - the most important person in England - and kept the peace in the absence of the king In many ways one can see her similarities to the other wives: she was made regent like the Spanish royal, Katherine of Aragon, she was English born and bred like Katherine Howard, an educated and highly intelligent reformer in religion like Anne Boleyn, and as a Northerner an outsider like Anne of Cleves.
When I've read a few books from an author and enjoyed them, then stop enjoying their work, I give them three books to enthrall me again, before they come off my reading list.This was Philippa Gregory's last chance to enthrall me.
"The Taming of the Queen' is set during Kateryn Parr's time as Henry VIII's queen.
Kateryn is probably the least known of Henry's wives, but the one deserving of the most respect.
She survived the machinations of his court where her predecessors (with the notable exception of Anne of Cleves) did not.It does puzzle me when people deride Philippa Gregory's work as inaccurate.
9,5 de 10*Por incrível que (me) pareça, nunca tinha lido nada de Philippa Gregory. Foram inúmeras as vezes que peguei em livros da autora, mas por uma razão ou por outra nunca li nenhum. Dou-me agora conta de tudo o que andei a perder… Terminei a leitura de “A Rainha Subjugada” e tive uma vontade enorme de ir a correr a uma livraria comprar toda a obra da autora. Arrisco-me a dizer que foi o melhor romance histórico que já li!Comentário completo em:http://abibliotecadajoao.blogspot.pt/...
The parts where it spoke specifically to Kateryn (Catherine/Katherine) Parr's accomplishment were fascinating. I had no idea she was the first woman ever to publish a book of original content. I love stories like this, where we discover great women who were either overshadowed or lost to history. That she helped steward Elizabeth to the throne, thus helping her step daughter become the most powerful woman of her time, is a laudable accomplishment. (We'll just leave out that part about her helping Mary, too...)
One of the finest of Philippa Gregory’s historical novels of the court of Henry VIII of England, The Taming of the Queen deals with the reign of Kateryn Parr, his last wife.
By this time in his life, I think it is reasonable to imagine that he was so self-absorbed and believed himself so omniscient that he was himself confused as to where he stopped and God began.You are Barbe-Bleu, and your wife, Tryphine, opened the locked doors of your castle and found dead wives laid out in their beds.
В книгата си „Укротяването на кралицата” Филипа Грегъри хвърля светлина върху вълнуващия живот на Катрин Пар, последната жена на Хенри VIII.
Въпреки това обаче родената в Кения авторка е непоклатима от първото място и не случайно Филипа Грегъри е обявена за Кралица на историческия роман.
To buy a pardon from the pope, to force the pope to annul a marriage, to make him set aside kinship laws, to watch as he fleeces his cardinals, who charge the bishops, who rent to the priests, who seek their tithes from the poor – all these abuses would have to fall away if we agreed that a soul can come to God without any intervention.
The crucifixion is the work of God. The church is the work of man.First Sentence: He stands before me, as broad as an ancient oak, his face like a full moon caught high in the topmost branches, the rolls of creased flesh upturned with goodwill.
I am aware that a lot of people are upset about the fictional parts of this story.
Historical fiction is fiction for a reason.I think we need more stories about women like Philippa Gregory's KP.
This is not the story of a seducer, like Anne Boleyn; this is not some great, smart, defiant queen like Elizabeth.
She is smart, she is educated, she is brave, and she knows exactly what to do and what to say to avoid the fate of the queens that came before her.
titlul cartii e o adevarata surpriza....cititi cartea si spuneti-mi cat de tare v-a tulburat dinamica relatiei dintre regele Henric si ultima lui sotie....:)
4.5 stars It's been awhile since I read a Philippa Gregory and I don't know why.
This one is particularly fascinating because Kateryn Paar was the last of Henry VIII's queens and she lived to tell the story.
Kateryn even put her own life in danger if Henry thought she was outshining her in any way including scholarship.
I love the descriptions of Henry's "alone" time which meant only 2-3 aides.
If you are looking for a book that really brings history alive and want to read about a truly remarkable woman, this is the book for you.
The treasure that the king showered on Katherine Howard comes in a chest all to itself, untouched since she was stripped of everything and went out to take the axe on her bare neck.”In my opinion, Philippa Gregory did a wonderful job of capturing the emotions that Kateryn Parr must’ve been feeling throughout her marriage, not just in relation to the five women who’d occupied her role in the past, but also regarding her complicated feelings for Henry, her very real fear for her life and the lives of those around her, and her feelings for Thomas Seymour (Gregory makes the assumption that Kateryn Parr and Thomas Seymour began to have feelings for each other before Kateryn’s marriage to Henry VIII, because they were married within months of Henry’s death).
I love Philippa Gregory and I love Bianca Amato. The Tudor Court and the Cousin's War series are great. I've enjoyed them all. I like how she takes what is known about these historical figures and brings them to life, by creating dialogue, relationships, and emotion. I know a lot of this is pure fiction, but it works for me. I like being pulled in. With some of her books, I've googled the characters to see what the outcome is because, I just couldn't wait to find out. The author creates great drama.
Boring nice portrayal of Henry VIII as a disgusting pig.
Mi-a placut foarte mult si abia astept sa le cunosc si pe Elisabeth si Mary, urmatoarele regine de pe tronul atat de dezbatut al Angliei.Tradarile si crimele de la curtea regala nu mai sunt o surpriza, deja suntem la volumul 11 si nu cred ca mai au loc intrebari.
A fost o regina cu mare potential, dornica sa invete si sa evolueze, sa lase o mostenire in urma si sa creeze o lume mai buna, insa rautatea lui Henric nu a lasat-o sa respire.Recomand si acest roman iubitorilor de fictiune istorica si nu numai, Philippa Gregory stie sa creeze atmosfera, are intrigi ce nu te lasa sa lasi cartea din mana, descrieri frumoase, dialoguri vii si niste personaje exceptionale, te simti mai bogat in urma lecturii, atat intelectual, cat si emotional.
The first of many Philippa Gregory novels I will be reading. I believe that a lot of unnecessary content could be cut down, but the novel was still enjoyable overall.
It’s actually one of Gregory’s better novels (although considering how bad her worst offerings like The Other Boleyn Girl are, take that statement with a pinch of salt).
It’s gone from being an eye-rolling, ham-fisted attempt at characterisation that makes me want to ceremoniously throw the book against a wall, to being a minor background annoyance quickly forgotten.Gregory’s tendency to As You Know Bob does not seem to have lessened, however.
For a reader, it’s irritating because it feels like being talked down to, as if Gregory underestimates her readers’ capacity to remember facts.
It’s pretty much par for the course in Gregory novels.Historical accuracy?
