https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1182117.The_Diamond_Sutra_and_The_Sutra_of_Hui_Neng
Okay - here I go again - as a Christian I'm probably not supposed to recommend Buddhist books, but if you’re going to read them Hui Neng’s the cream of the crop.
I’d rank it right next to Bodhidharma at the top of my Buddhist books list.
And the Diamond Sutra’s probably my favorite of the canonical Indian sutras, but the Chinese deemphasized the speculative and made Buddhism wacky fun (not to detract from Hui Neng’s substance and penetration).
Down in the village getting drunk with the butchers.
If you see the Buddha on the road, kill him.
I actually have no idea how to rate a book like this. I can't give it five because I didn't actually like it that much, but I have to give it five because it's a cornerstone of eastern philosophy and as such transcends rating. So I'm screwed. Luckily, in eastern philosophy, A and not A is not a contradiction.
These two texts are foundational texts for Buddhism. While there are many difficult passages for Western readers, the texts are remarkably clear and direct. This particular translation and the accompanying endnotes are very high quality. A necessary read for anyone with interest in Buddhism.
A Bodhisattva should develop a mind which alights upon no thing whatsoever; and so should he establish it.”“Consequently those who have left behind every phenomenal distinction are called Buddhas all.”“Equally incalculable is the merit of theBodhisattva who practices charity without any attachment to appearances.”“The Tathagata is He who declares that which is true; He who declares that which is fundamental; He who declares that which is ultimate.
Perhaps it would be a little on the nose to call this work "enlightening", but the Diamond Sutra can serve to make clear several difficult Buddhist teachings. Religious texts can be used in teaching for a variety of purposes, but the most pressing is understanding student contexts. Being familiar with a student's faith can really help to build a relationship with that student.
Absolutely amazing
If you are a student of Zen, this is THE book. The Platform Sutra is essentially Hui-Neng's commentary on the Vajracchedika (Diamond) Sutra. These two books together are indispensable. If there is one book to read, it is this one. Hui-Neng's teachings are gold.
That cover painting of Hui-Neng tearing up a sutra really says it all, even if on his deathbed he advised not going out of your way to dishonor them.
Heavy read. I learned a lot but much of this went over my head. I look forward to reading this again in the future when I have more knowledge on the topic.
I’m positive that several parts of this went over my head haha. A hard text but I enjoyed it.
I read this along with Thomas Cleary's translation (in Classics of Buddhism and Zen Vol. 3) which includes Hui Neng's commentary on the Diamond Sutra.
For example, in section 7 (which concerns a dogmatic approach to the teachings of Buddha) Wong translates "wu-wei fa" as "this unformulated principle," where Cleary has "uncreated truth." Cleary's translation rings more true in the sense that what cannot be permanently fixed cannot be said to have been created.
"Unformulated" is perfectly acceptable, but the idea that truth cannot be "created" has roots in the fundamental concept of dependent arising, and I like that connection.Hui Neng's Commentary on the Diamond Sutra is only in the Cleary translation, so it certainly has that advantage.
The Sutra of Hui-neng (aka The Platform Sutra) is the first sutra obviously composed by Chinese for Chinese.
It's also the key textual moment when we see Chan (aka Zen) Buddhism emerge as the primary form of Buddhist religious expression in China.
The sutra reads more like a story than scripture, and for this reason alone it's a fun read.
If you're curious about Zen (when it started, how it started, why it started), this is the first sutra to read.If you're interested in a more "academic" study of the Platform Sutra, check out "The Platform Sutra of the Sixth Patriarch," translated and annotated by Philip Yampolsky, and published by Columbia University Press.
The Diamond Sutra and the Platform Sutra of the Sixth Patriarch (Hui Neng).
The translation of the Diamond Sutra is good and has some useful explanatory notes.
The translation of the Platform Sutra (Sutra of Hui Neng) leaves a lot to be desired.
It is jargon-laden and the language is clumsy (the translation having been prepared by a non-native English speaker).
The translation of the Platform Sutra by Philip Yamplosky is much better for the general reader.
This particular translation is only useful to the Buddhist practitioner studying under a master, who can explain the text.
The Diamond Sutra is one of the most important teachings in Buddhist thought and the oldest extant printed book in the world.
On the first few readings i thought this to be one of the most confusing books i've ever read.
Upon further readings I realized it is indeed one of the most confusing books I've ever read.
Regardless, the few ideas in the Diamond Sutra that I do understand are fascinating.
Also, it being the oldest extant printed book in the world is reason enough to give it a look.
It's hard to verbalize what this book means to me...Though I consciously remember little of its deep
Excellent book, though some of the translations are a little burdensome with a few invented English words to try and avoid too much rewriting due to grammar. Excellent message of finding truth within yourself, not needing organized institutions, and warning against over-intellectualizing your practice. The fact that Hui-Neng was Chinese shown through a few times, shown by his reaction to losing face in front of a 13 year old, and general reactions to people from different parts of the country, but some baggage is hard to put down.
Brain-melting. There is so much profound and subtle wisdom in the Diamond Sutra, it can be read and re-read and always produce a startling effect in your mind...er, no-mind. Very beautiful and challenging. This 'epitomised' version not recommended for buddhist beginners - try the one printed in Dwight Goddard's Buddhist Bible for more complete (though less immediate) version.
Seminal to an understanding of Buddhism. Preferable to the Tibetan treatises also featured on this list that imho show a good deal of distortion due to the infiltration of local traditions and deities.
This is a great book everyone read it i recommend it
good book
Read 1990 Shambala Dragon Edition.
Cuts through all the other crap.
"Defilement [klesa] is enlightenment [bodhi]."
awesome and very inspiring book....i made a machinima film of the related heart sutra herehttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4-U1wU...
