https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/774800.The_Lost_Books_of_the_Bible_and_the_Forgotten_Books_of_Eden
In the Protestant Church only the 66 books approved by the Archbishop of Canterbury in 1885, which today is known as the Authorised King James Bible, are used.
Christianity falls into the latter category, having been the victim of the Roman Empire, under the Emperor Constantine, who blended the Christian Church with the institutionalised "pagan" practices of Rome and eliminated any semblance of either the Jewish religious influence or the first church Jesus established during his ministry.So, with this in mind, it makes 'The Lost Books of the Bible and the Forgotten Books of Eden' a very interesting read.
As a Christian, this was a fascinating journey further into the forgotten books of the Bible.
In truth, i had some knowledge of these books but not enough.
These books were labeled 'forbidden' hundreds of years ago but available to be read and studied for decades.
Reading this book will expand one's knowledge of biblical topics and make one say 'Aha!" One will learn more about Adam & Eve's other children two daughters, their trials after their expulsion and the journeys of Enoch.
Overall, there is much to be learned here if one approaches with an open mind and heart.
There are so many books that were not included in our modern bible. These do not mean that their literary or historical values are of any less. While reading this book, let's keep in mind what the bible teaches.
If you are ever interested in learning more about the gnostic Christian faith and what the books were like this is an excellent book. There are quite a few of the gnostic gospels in this one and they are translated well. There isn't much in the book describing exactly what the gnostics believed, or how they practiced. This is pretty much just the translated books. Either way this is great for anyone curious about the subject.
Excellent resource for "those other" books not placed into the canon of Scripture. These were intentionally left out of the canon of Scripture because they do not match up with rest of Scripture. These are considered inspirational writings, but not the Word of God. My favorite among them is the Book of Enoch which ironically enough is alluded to in the Book of Jude. Quite an interesting read, especially Enoch's description of the various levels of Heaven.
Outstanding book for the learned.
Some are presumed more factual than others by virtue of being written by a disciple or someone who knew the disciples (eg Nicodemus) or highly esteemed by men in church of Rome (eg Epistle of Paul to Laodiceans).
Some gospels and epistles had actually been read in the early church but were not accepted for the canon.
Others were written by gnostics who did not believe Jesus was the Christ and wrote some pretty satirical and insulting tales.
The names of the two men on the cross with Jesus were reported as Dimas on His right and Gestas at his left hand; Veronica was the name of the woman who touch His cloak and was healed from bleeding.
I decided to read further on the internet while going through each story, and I found most of the preludes to have a more scholarly tone; and they definitely lack reference.The books themselves were a mix of radicalism, to moderate canon; most often going into the propagandistic—centralizing against Judaism and its “faults” with the fall of Jesus.
Which is a given, since they all fall under the apocryphal section and not the accepted canon; however, some of these books had at one point during the evolution of Christianity been in Catholic or Orthodox sermons (not including the Ethiopian church).Overall, a read that needs secondary sources for adept comprehension and full enjoyment – but like all antiquated works, I believe this is presumed.
(I guess movie versions made it seem that way, especially in the Navity).Reading "the Protevangelion" chapter 13, first verse, "and leaving her and her sons in the cave..." and Joseph went to seek a Hebrew midwife.
So far, some parts of this forgotten books are slightly confusing and should not be if it is the Word of God. I also see the first few chapters speak highly of the "priests" and Mary given to them, like Samuel was given to the priest Eli except she was given to the high priests (plural vs.
It is a good read, my copy is filled with Outlinings of the doctrines and familiar tones of Mormonism and Native American beliefs in The Great White Spirit, and in the Atonement and the "Heavens" and Salvation of Children and so forth that is not believed by other churches, yet people know to be true in their hearts, including "Pre-Existance" the Plan of Salvation and other awesome truths lost to the world through the apostasy and the dark ages (Apostasy).
This book is Amazing for ones Spiritual Growth and gaining more insight into the truth's God wants you to know.
A fascinating peek at Christian works rejected or ignored by the Church Fathers. From "The Letters of Herod and Pilate" to the multiple suicides of Adam and Eve, these tales, parables, and gospels provide a glimpse of a diverse Christian past.
Wonderful! These "omitted" books were amazing. I'm not sure why they were omitted, but I feel that as a Christian, it answered some questions that I have always had. I feel that it has brought me closer to God and reinforced my faith.
In "The Protoevangelion of James" it explains some of the beliefs about the Virgin Mary and Saint Joseph in the Eastern Orthodox and Roman Catholic Churches. The Gospel of Nicodemus also has some stuff found in Orthodox and Catholic beliefs...
I'm thoroughly enjoying this. There is a lot there that is of interest to me and will be to anyone who is a scholar of the Bible, religion and history. Would be interesting to know the provenance of all the books.
I actually have read a little but I can tell I need to come back to this after I read the Lost Teachings of Jesus by Elizabeth Clare Prophet because i want to compare notes.....
I've read parts of it, but not the entire book.
Good and surprising, one will think why the stores were not canonized. T is wonderful
Some interesting (and also some bizarre) stuff to be found in this volume. It gets four stars because of the Shepherd of Hermas, which I thoroughly enjoyed.
It's very good.
Every bible reader I know can tell you the books to the bible but they can't name any of the editors of the bible?
very interesting. I'm not going to lose sleep over the content but I think a lot of it is credible.
people should read the book of enoch and odes of solomon out of this amazing book.
