https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11907.The_Victim
To make matters worse, Leventhal is acutely sensitive to his immediate environment.
Scruples, second thoughts, hesitations, reversals, things unsaid abound.But, unlike Beckett, Bellow interjects wonderful lyricism into almost every scene.
He knows well what inspires it: anti-Semitism.
Leventhal meets the beast of anti-Semitism in the office, with his in-laws, in his remembered past.
Getting a name for being uncivil, for calling out those whose anti-Semitism is expressed so casually, would be counterproductive.
Says the wife of one of Leventhal’s acquaintances, “People are bound not to take things too much to heart, for their own protection.
How open can a person be in confronting the powers that dominate his life?
He lacks confidence, but it is in his lack of self-confidence that he becomes human and very real to the reader.Asa Leventhal is left alone in NYC; his wife has gone to help her mother move from one house to another.
The book shows us what is going on in Asa’s head, and it does it remarkably well.Who is the victim of the story?
The book captures hot summer nights in NYC.
It captures the way things were back then for such people.I like the ending too.I listened to the audiobook narrated by Joe Barrett.
He uses different tones for Asa and Kirby.
The man's name is Kirby Allbee, who had once arranged an interview with a prominent newspaper, and assertively accuses Leventhal of not only getting him fired from his job, but also his subsequent divorce, which was also followed by his wife's death.
What follows is a subplot involving a personal family tragedy for Leventhal while being pursued by Allbee who is seeking out some sort of moral reparation.
Leventhal is obviously not to blame here, but he is a man that is easily lead into psychotically obsessive guilt.
Mudei de 3 para 4 estrelas. O Leventhal continua a caminhar comigo. Isso deve querer dizer que me tinha enganado. É melhor - ou pior, pois as pessoas más também nos marcam - do que julguei no final da leitura. Isto das estrelas é um bocadinho injusto, não é?
Who is the victim?...and of what?...even after having finished reading this novel I'm not sure.
What I'm sure of is that it is a wonderful novel.
I loved the complexity of the protagonist, and the ambiguity of it all...like in life, it's hard to figure out who is guilty and of what.
For the first fifty pages or so, things felt much too simple and the characters stereotyped but the rest of the book was excellent- it more than made up for it.
There is not a character that did not feel real by the end of the story, it is like that they gained life with every page.
Bellow's second novel was written shortly after the war when reports of the extermination camps and the war-crime trials of Nuremberg were under way.
Bellow doesn't address these topics directly, but his protagonist, Leventhal, finds himself "persecuted" by a fallen, moneyed WASP, and generally surrounded by christians who subtly and not so subtly treat him as a lesser person.
Bellow shows great skill in trying to deal with bigotry and anti-Semitism without turning the novel into a political tract.
Leventhal has find minor success among the Gentiles, but there is a constant background fear of being cast out or blacklisted by the Christians who control his livelihood.An interesting read for Bellow fans.
I had never read any Saul Bellow books before, but I picked this one up from a large 1001 Books To Read Before You Die list, which is one of the many sources from which I pick books.
They tend to be quite different from my usual science fiction fare, and that's partly why I like them.
It's good not to get too settled into one genre.Note: The rest of this review has been withheld due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
Unfortunately, Saul Bellow is not one of those authors.
The victim is a story about Asa Leventhal and his unexpected acquantance, Kirby Albee, who accuses Leventhal of deliberately ruining his life.
While the premise was promising, I was disappointed with where it went.
The implicit threat that Albee represents is never really carried through, despite the fact that there were myriad oppurtinities for him to cause real harm to Leventhal.
Unfortunately, his dependable writing did not, for me, carry the story and I will have very shortly forgotten The Victim.
Yes, we’re also in the realm of existentialism, and without a doubt it’s an examination of polite anti-Semitism after the Second World War, but a sense of alienation is all pervading – and that’s both the book’s triumph and its major flaw.
But it’s also a flaw as a sense of frustration is – let’s be honest – not something you really want from a book.
Without a doubt it’s beautifully written, conjuring a version of New York in a summer heat-wave (and a married man alone within it) that’s oppressive and glamour-less and a world away from the contemporaneous ‘The Seven Year Itch’; but it’s an alienating book about an alienated character and whereas it's successful in presenting that alienation, an alienating novel is not one you're ever going to love.
I ended up skimming a lot of this. Early Bellow does not appeal to me. Too writerly and dull. Never would I have imagined how you would have got from this to Moses Herzog!
In 1952, a stage version of the book ran briefly off-Broadway."The Victim" explores modernist themes of guilt, loneliness, purposelessness and paranoia in the lives of its main character and his strange double.
With prejudices of his own, Leventhal is troubled that his brother has married a non-Jew and finds Elena and her mother superstitious and primitive.
During the course of the book, Leventhal and his brother take modest steps to improve their estranged relationship.Both Leventhal and Allbee are lonely outsiders and one-time members of the class whom Bellow describes as "the lost, the overcome, the effaced, the ruined." The book seems to me heavily influenced by Dostoevsky and by existentialism.
(By the way, the novel which became the movie CAPE FEAR has a different title, but it should not be difficult to look up.) Bear in mind, of course, that Bellow is not writing a thriller, but a meditation on antisemitism.Briefly, the plot involves the reappearance in the life of Asa Leventhal, a moderately successful New York businessman, of Kirby Allbee, a man who, years before, at a party, had aimed antisemitic remarks at Leventhal.
I plan to read it, but I can't think Bellow is not almost as deep as Dostoevsky here.One chapter, placed at just the right spot in this novel, is a set-piece.
Bellow writes in a precise, descriptive manner, and the tension rarely flags, so it is difficult to turn away from a character (and thus from the novel itself) who otherwise would be too rancorous and unlikeable to endure.Leventhal is, essentially, angry: at other people who are disloyal or disrespectful to him; at suspected blacklists and the arbitrary spitefulness of those who hire and fire, and thus can squash other men like bugs; at the casual anti-semitism of co-workers and aquaintances; at his own seeming impotence to change any of this.
It was impossible to tell, in starting out, what was going to happen.
Leventhal disagreed about “less than human.” Since it was done by so many, what was it but human?
At twenty they had vigor and so were careless, and later they felt too weak to be accountable.
Maybe you could call it “less than human” to refuse; he liked to think “human” meant accountable in spite of many weaknesses – at the last moment, tough enough to hold.
But to go by what happened in the majority of cases, it was the dizziness that was most typical and had the best claim to the name.
Here's a book about New York City in the summer without air conditioning. Spice it up with a touch of guilt and paranoia, then add a liberal helping of anti-semitism, and it makes for a stew that is squalid, dull, and a bit oppressive. I kept waiting for something to happen, something to break the malaise. But it never did, or when it did, nothing followed as a result, if that makes any sense. Bellow's writing is very strong, but not strong enough really to carry off a book filled with vaguely unpleasant people not doing much of anything.
I was very intrigued by the premise of this novel, where the protaganist, Leventhal, sees a man he knew vaguely in the past. This man claims that Leventhal ruined his life. However,this threat never really materialises. Although the writing is excellent, and the descriptions of the heat stifling the city are so evocative (a foreshadowing of events to come, I'd hoped) I felt that the book didn't reach its potential
A profoundly disappointing book. I don't even feel enough to vent about it - just apathetic, willing to let it fade out of memory.
Qualsiasi cosa dica o faccia, non riesce a togliersi Albee di torno, tanto che alla fine è costretto a sovvenzionarlo finanziariamente e addirittura ad accoglierlo in casa propria.
Certe volte sospettiamo che Asa sia un paranoico e Albee solo uno sfortunato che non ha più niente da perdere.
A livello teorico, dice Asa, il rapporto tra le due categorie è semplice: il povero rimprovera il ricco perché, per fortuna o abilità, questo possiede ciò che a lui manca.
Siamo nel 1947 e Bellow, proprio come Asa, è un ebreo americano, che non ha conosciuto le persecuzioni naziste.
"The Victim" is early Bellow and I miss the exuberance of character that explodes in his later novels.
The main protagonist of "The Victim" is Abe Leventhal, and he is a surprisingly lifeless character - a victim of his own indeterminacy.
He is victimized by Kirby Allbee, a drunk Caliban that at least spurs Leventhal into doing something.I believe there was an attempt of a correspondence between Leventhal/Allbee (a Jew and a gentile) to the recent Holocaust in the novel.
Bellow's later main characters were flawed but never to the extent of Allbee.
For the same reasons I liked Mr. Sammler's Planet and Seize the Day, I like this earlier novel of Saul Bellow’s, too.
Each is a thinking novel, and each imprints Bellow’s distinctive touch.The plot centers on the fallout from a job interview.
He looks back on that interview one way.
But as he asks around, he discovers that other people look at his actions that day much differently.
In Leventhal’s mind, this was not even a true injustice, for how could you call anything so haphazard an injustice?
It was a shuffle, all, all accidental and haphazard.
The intensive self obsessed portrayal of Jewish introspection and the fear of ‘the other’ (in the immediate aftermath of the Holocaust - the novel was written in 1947) came across strongly.
Finally, quotes from both the Hebrew Scriptures and the New Testament are on every other page, also seamlessly woven in and each there to prompt thought and understanding, if the reader can allow him/herself sufficient time.If Bellow characterised this as an apprenticeship novel, then it’s time for me to read more of the real stuff.
Come se l'intero continente si fosse spostato, fosse scivolato verso l'equatore, come se il grigio e cupo Atlantico si fosse tinto d'un verde tropicale e la gente per le strade fosse una folla scalmanata di fellah formicolanti tra gli stupendi monumenti del loro mistero che, con abbagliante profusione, spargono le loro luci nell'afa notturna senza interruzioni.Un passo (unico, arbitrariamente diviso in tre):Non puoi trovar posto per tutto nei tuoi sentimenti, o cedere alla pressione di ogni spinta come una porta girevole, la stessa per tutti, con gente che vi entra o ne esce a suo piacere.D'altro canto, se ti chiudi in te per paura di essere disturbato, allora diventi un orso nella sua tana d'inverno, o uno specchio avvolto negli stracci.
Every sentence in this 1947 novel by Saul Bellow is rich and worth savoring.
As I was following the plot I kept wanting to slow down and read whole paragraphs over again.
The setting is so much a part of the tone of the character Leventhal's state of mind.
Most of the time it is a stifling NYC August without air conditioning.
Leventhal is an interesting main character.
Lovely deep conversations pulsating with arguments and trying to find fundamental truths of being human were my favorite parts to read.
Bellow's novel is intelligent and thought provoking.
Quei personaggi tormentati di ebreo-newyorkesi arrovellati su se stessi, ironicamente sospesi fra le contraddizioni tra il laicismo di una società dei consumi sempre più sfrenata e una cultura antica attaccata a formalismi che si svuotano sempre più di significato ma che permangono, a costituire un'identità di gruppo, di famiglia.
Quelle situazioni quotidiane o occasionali apparentemente di poco peso, ma che possono rendere la vita fastidiosa e complicata.
Ma che in genere non si trovano mai.
A questi stessi temi attingerà tanta letteratura ebraico americana contemporanea (Roth, Richler, fino al cinema di Woody Allen).
I loved this though I can see it is not the most pleasant reading.
It felt to me like a very humdrum realistic version of Kafka.
Leventhall has a very ordinary life in New York but starts to feel things becoming too much as his wife has left for a few weeks, he is called on to help out with a sick nephew and an acquaintance starts to blame him for losing his job.
It all starts getting out of hand and paranoia starts to set in.
I found it easy to read and could associate with Leventhall.
What a crazy, weird book.
I absolutely flew through this, because I'd been meaning to read it forever, and had started a while back and put it down, so I basically just caught the main plotlines and characters and missed a lot of the intricacies, though it seems a fairly simple book.
But what an intriguing setup!
Has that kind of Kafkaesque inevitability to it.
But yeah, the protag/antag setup was just so interesting, nothing I've really read before.
Totally a unique book, while also being just a straightforward narrative.
Will have to read it again some day.
Saul Bellow is a clear-thinking, all-seeing, foot-in-the-Classics big male American writer. The book is a little noir-ish, but most of the interesting stuff is internal -- digressions, flashbacks, arguments, paranoia. Reading this is like being with an incredibly erudite being who is forced to live on earth.As a way into Bellow, this is your best bet. I feel his later work is an exaggeration of the internal stuff I named above.
Yet another literary plot which would've been nullified by the existence of air conditioning.Bellow's muscular rpose was as strident as ever. My wife read this a few years ago and pointed out how Edward Albee's Zoo Story has a similar plot device: oh, the antagonist is also named Allbee in Bellow's novel.
While the book was not a bad read, it didnt succeed in holding my attention too well. I had to continuously make myself read it, which is not really a positive judgement to make on a book.
