https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/54761.Uncle_Tom_s_Children
دوستانِ گرانقدر، این کتاب تقریباً از 280 صفحه تشکیل شده است و شاملِ چهار داستان میباشد که در ارتباط با زندگی سیاه پوستانی است که زندگی شخصی و اجتماعی آنها در معرضِ خطرِ تهاجمِ سفید پوستان است و از سوی این سفید پوستان همیشه مورد بی احترامی قرار میگیرند و ستم بسیار به آنها میشودداستانِ آخر، که <آتش و ابر> نام دارد، جداگانه توسط جنابِ <کیانوش> ترجمه شده است و کتابِ آن نیز موجود است... این داستان از نظر موضوعی با سه داستانِ دیگر کتاب تفاوت دارد، چراکه در آن سیاه پوستان و سفید پوستان با ی
‎دوستانِ گرانقدر، این کتاب تقریباً از 280 صفحه تشکیل شده است و شاملِ چهار داستان میباشد که در ارتباط با زندگی سیاه پوستانی است که زندگی شخصی و اجتماعی آنها در معرضِ خطرِ تهاجمِ سفید پوستان است و از سوی این سفید پوستان همیشه مورد بی احترامی قرار میگیرند و ستم بسیار به آنها میشود‎داستانِ آخر، که <آتش و ابر> نام دارد، جداگانه توسط جنابِ <کیانوش> ترجمه شده است و کتابِ آن نیز موجود است...
این داستان از نظر موضوعی با سه داستانِ دیگر کتاب تفاوت دارد، چراکه در آن سیاه پوستان و سفید پوستان با یکدیگر متحد میشوند و در تظاهراتی موفق شرکت میکنند تا اعتراضشان را علیه ظلمِ حاکم بر جامعه نشان دهند..
This book of short stories has implanted images in my mind that I have never been able to shake. Wright is an incredible writer that grabs his readers by the neck and takes them where he wants them to go. These stories are scary good, and will change the way you see slavery and racism forever.Pay attention to Wright's use of color.
I recommend it to those who argue that black slaves were better off then poor white and never stop to wonder why black people would risk it all for a glimmer of freedom.
Thomas wasn't exactly pro-desegregation of schools due to his harrowing experience in a white school who accepted black children.
At some point in the book, Thomas discuss school desegregation with a white lawyer.
What is likely to happen is that they will rate the book 1 star, and then proceed to explain how black people truly hadn't had it that bad and argue about our laziness, ego-centrism and lack of work ethic.By the way, I'm far from being pro-identity politics, pro-liberal or anything like that, but I'm tired of the double standard and hypocrisy I keep seeing.
✏▪▪اسم الكتاب: #أبناء_العم_تومالمؤلف: #ريتشارد_رايتنوع الكتاب: قصصمكان الشراء: معرض الكتب المستعملةعدد الصفحات: 205الدار: دار المعارف للطباعة والنشر✏بعد قراءتي لرواية "كوخ العم توم" وتأثري الشديد بها .، قررت أن أقرأ هذا الكتاب #أبناء_العم_توم ولكني وجدته مختلفاً عن الأول .، صحيح إنه يناقش أو يتكلم عن القضية نفسها وهي قضية الزنوج ومعاناة هؤلاء الناس ذوو البشرة الداكنة .، لكن هذا الكتاب عبارة عن قصص مختلفة .، ثلاث قصص أيضاً تحكي معاناة الزنوج في أمريكا في تلك الحقبة التي تُظهر طغيان البيض وكأنهم ا
✏️▪️▪️اسم الكتاب: #أبناء_العم_تومالمؤلف: #ريتشارد_رايتنوع الكتاب: قصصمكان الشراء: معرض الكتب المستعم

المهم أنها قصص تفيض بالواقعة وتعبر عن مدى سماجة وسذاجة الإسان الذي يظ فسه أرقى لمجر اختلاف لون البشرة.
القصة الثالثة والاطول تذكرني برواية أرض أرض لجمال الغيطاي من حيث الأسلوب وإن كانت الترجمة سيئة للغاية، ولكن ما وضصلي منها كان كفيل بإبداء رأي.
فيها تظهر كيف يستوي الإنسان في المحن لا فرق بين أبيض وأسود ولكن بمجرد انقشاع المحنة عادت العنصرية من جديد.
بل لم يتم معه تحقيق أو سماع أقواله شهادة طفل أبيض كانت كفيلة با ترديه حثة هامدة.للسف سيظل الإنسان كائناً متدنياً طالما بقيت في حياتنا "ثوابت".
I really enjoyed reading this. As it dealt with racism it was certainly depressing, but it was also very captivating and powerful. It takes a lot for me to enjoy short stories, so me getting invested in this so quickly is a big deal. But I prefer novels above all else and in the end I wasn't quite as affected by this one as I was by Native Son and Black Boy.
Amazing! How could I have not read any Richard Wright stories before? He is now one of my favorite short story authors. These stories were each powerful and evocative. I am writing a paper and the imagery with water in each story is very interesting and will provide me with many pages.
I only read a few of the stories (I couldn't bear to read all of them, actually): A Bright and Morning Star, Down by the Riverside, and Fire and Cloud.
I would advise reading Fire and Cloud left if you want to go through the rest of your day with a shred of faith in the goodness of human beings intact.
I don't cry often when I read books, and even less in front of other people, but I think I cried for about 30 minutes straight at the end of A Bright and Morning Star.
Incredibly sad
Scene di caccia nel profondo sud degli Usa: cinque racconti preceduti da una breve introduzione dell’autore in cui ricorda che lui, ragazzino nero nato nel 1908 , ha potuto avvicinarsi alla cultura solo presentando una tessera della biblioteca intestata a un bianco per cui lavorava, l’accesso ai libri era interdetto ai neri.
( se non la conoscete, fatemi dire con Moretti che continuiamo a farci del male.
Ecco, così ho pensato dalla prima all’ultima pagina: Scappa, ragazzo, scappa, vai al nord, non rimanere nell’inferno.
Altrimenti è solo la fuga la possibilità di salvezza: scappa, ragazzo, scappa.
:(
There's a slight repetitiveness to it since you have individual stories and each one inevitably arrives to racist, violent acts.
In particular, "Long Black Song" (probably the only unsuccessful story) seems to demand a quieter, more subtle way of examining these problems but sure enough the angry white mob shows up.
That being said the stories "Big Boy Leaves Home" and "Fire and Cloud" are great views of black communities finding strength and resourcefulness under seemingly impossible circumstances.
I think the best is "Down By the Riverside", which not only has the other stories effecting, sad violence, but also offers the pleasures of a suspense tale.
الكتاب عبارة عن مجموعة قصصية تحكي عن معاناة السود في أمريكا..تلك الفترة التي طغى فيها البيض وآمنوا انهم وحدهم من يملكون الحق في العيش الكريم..القصص كانت مؤثرة جدا.. والنهايات كانت متنوعة بين المأساوية والشبه سعيدة.. أسلوب سرد أكثر من رائع والحوارات جميلة على الرغم من بساطتها.حزنت على نهاية بوبو البشعة ووجدت نفسي قلقة من اكتشاف مخبأ بيغ بوي تمنيت لو أن مان تخلى عن فكرة مساعدة السيدة هارتفيلد.. او على الأقل يخبر برينكلي بقصته حتى يساعده..واخيرا حزنت على تفضيل سيلاس البقاء في مزرعتهوانتظار الموت.. وتمنيت لو انه هرب مع سارة..العمل الأول الذي اقرأه لريتشارد رايت وحتما لن يكون الأخير.
حظي كان سيء مع هالرواية * الترجمة السيئة ومايحتاج اتكلم عن الأخطاااء الإملائية * اخترت رواية سيئة لريتشارد رايت الرواية بتضضمن 3 قصص لمعاناة السود اليومية في سبيل العيش وسط تسلط البيض .. وكلها بتدور في نطاق القتل والثأر .. الرواية تتميز بالتفصيل الشديد للأحداث وحتى بالنسبة للحوارات بين الشخصيات أعتقد لو أنه ركز على قصة وحدة وأستغلها في أنه يعرض الرواية بأسلوب مشوق وبدون تشابه للأحداث حتكون أحسن .. بس كانت جميع الأحداث تشترك بأن رجل أسود يقتل رجل أبيض في سبيل الدفاع عن النفس ..
تدور الرواية حول حياة السود في أمريكا ومعاناتهم من البيضلم ترق لي كثيرا مقارنة مع رواية هيريت ستاو كوخ العم توموالتي تأثرت بها كثيرا والتى أعتبرها من الروايات المفضلة جدا لدي.
Reading this book is watching a car crash.
Wright writes the pain of the black body in Jim Crow south in a manner simultaneously numbing and jarring, like needles stuck into the flesh that you can only feel when you move and dear God you have to move.
The contemporary reader can only sit still and watch the furtive movements of each character struggling for bare life in a place and time where being born black means morality and beauty are choked out of your air.
And just as each story ends another begins.
This is a different kind of horror story.
I only read "Big Boy Leaves Home"....It reminded me of the time that my cousin Timmy and I went frog gigging in North Mississippi with Glenn (a Black friend). He was petrified to be out at night with us. We had to rush him home and see him to his door to make him feel safe. I was around 16 at the time.
One of the most searing and difficult reads ever. It will help you understand the current state of race relations in this country. It also brings home how white society kept black people pushed down for so long. It made me further understand white privilege and made me even more ashamed of my people treating fellow humans so badly.
I found this book of short stories in a little free library a year ago and only read half before I had to put it down. glad I finally finished these tales of the darkest most violent tales of racism post-slavery made even starker by beautiful descriptions and turns of phrases.
Excellent, powerful collection of five novellas and one autobiographical essay; first book published by Wright. Very good depiction of the racially charged interactions between whites and blacks in America during the early Twentieth Century. Disturbing in the honest portrayals.
I read this book in one night for class. It was good enough for me to do that sans pain. Just give me some time to process the novel!
*read for class*
Deberia reemplazarse cada Cabaña del tio tom del mundo por un Hijos del tio tom.
You don't want to read what is happening.
Wright doesn't spare people's sensibilities.
He doesn't care if you're uncomfortable or if you want a happy ending; he doesn't give you one because black people don't get one.
As a result, the book is incredibly sad and difficult to read, yet so powerful.
The novellas were snapshots and I would have preferred to read a longer story featuring one cast.
Still, the book makes up for lack of subtlety with sheer force.
I'm so angry and disgusted as I reflect on this book, and that is its greatest achievement.
Just reread this collection of stories for class. Wright is an extremely powerful writer who can be overpowering at times. This is a great book to teach and what I really like about the collection is how the stories--and the situations--get more complex as the collection develops. "Long Black Song," at the center of the collection, is a masterpiece.
Richard Wright's first published novel,  Uncle Tom's Children  (1936), opens with a quote from the author: "The post Civil War household word among Negroes--'He's an Uncle Tom!'--which denoted reluctant toleration for the cringing type who knew his place before white folk, has been supplanted by a new word from another generation which says:--'Uncle Tom is dead!" It is an appropriate opening for a book hailed as marking the beginning of black protest literature. Wright is not only protesting rac
(1936), opens with a quote from the author: "The post Civil War household word among Negroes--'He's an Uncle Tom!'--which denoted reluctant toleration for the cringing type who knew his place before white folk, has been supplanted by a new word from another generation which says:--'Uncle Tom is dead!" It is an appropriate opening for a book hailed as marking the beginning of black protest literature.
The book was, after all, first published by the Communist Party, the political views of which are apparent in most of the short stories.
I cried more than once while reading it.Another thing to note, that although the stories are focused on the lives of black Americans, Wright was also a communist of the 30's and a supporter of the labor unions that were trying to form during that time period.
Some of the stories give you a small window into a part of American history that not many Americans are exposed to; the rise of labor unions, and workers rights that brought poor blacks and whites together.
The violence towards black and white communists in America was horrifying, and downright brutal murder.
One helpful hint I've discovered for teachers: make 'em read "The Ethics of Living Jim Crow" AFTER they read the stories.
(JC comes first, as a kind of intro to the fiction).
Going with stories over essays for initiates gives folks a little more elbow room for their own interpretations.UPDATE: All right---so I muffed this one.
But the discussion was good; the class was able to see beyond the simple criticisms of RW's leftism and sexism and come up with alternative interpretations that give the stories a bit more oomph that their leaden reputation would allow.
All in all, a good night.
On that note, if you ever want to feel absolutely claustrophobic with hate and fear crushing you in, this is the book for you, and for a guy who grew up in a situation like the one Wright describes in his autobiographical short, I guess I can empathize with the feelings that create fiction of this kind.
The book is interesting on more than one level, because in it, Wright close to explicitly abandons the Christian ethic (Uncle Tom) as being only good for helping one suffer patiently, not to make one's situation better.
