https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1268994.For_a_New_Liberty
That's not to say that it shouldn't open to scrutiny, but that's precisely what Rothbard expects, and it gets me eager to catch up on the 35+ years of scholarship that's followed his manifesto, as well as specific predecessors that he used as examples.The most important and most amazing parts of his book are how he explains most of the aggression and economic woes that we're experiencing today.
It is so fierce, unapologetic and unrelenting in its logic, that this book, more than any I've ever read, makes me want to hold it as tight to my breast as possible, while raising my other arm and proclaiming Vive La Liberte!
A facile argument that attempts to borrow authority from Locke and the natural rights tradition.Interestingly, what is wrong about this book is fairly easily summarized.
For this labour being the unquestionable property of the labourer, no man but he can have a right to what that is once joined to.Now, what is interesting is not that he is quoting Locke (or the natural rights tradition, flawed as it is, more generally), or what he is quoting from Locke, but rather what Rothbard is omitting.
Words like liberal, conservative, left and right were twisted, distorted and deformed in such a manner that their meaning is kind of lost.
Rothbard explains the values of libertarianism - so in this book you will find not only Rothbard's views on money, banking, FED and gold standard - which are leading topics of the majority of his work - but also on many other fields of the organization of a human society.
Rothbard defends liberty, property rights and gives a thorough description of functioning of a society built upon few simple principles.
Rothbard brilliantly chronicles the nascent of libertarianism while in addition to explaining the philosophy of the libertarian creed in establishing free markets, personal liberty and property rights, yet government intervention continually disrupts voluntary action and exchange thus acting as a combative to individualism.
The most important aspect of the market economy is voluntary exchange for mutual benefit; thus, any exchange not agreed upon by means of violence or coercion violates the libertarian creed, so the state is the eternally superior and most organized aggressor of all persons and property.
Had been debating a foray into this book for a while, as I have saturated myself thoroughly with Libertarian reading the past few years and really wondered if I wasn't going to just rehash ideas I am well familiar with.
Rothbard is extremely unique, and indeed prophetic in many elements highlighting the issues in this country.
While this book is often recommended as a first step in exploring Libertarian philosophy, I would recommend reading some of the previous thought leaders & economists and then reaching this book (as I did).
I must admit I'm often tempted to the more utilitarian side of the argument, but I can't help but wholly admire and be drawn to the authors more principled view, who puts freedom and right of personal ownership way above any other social principles...
and yet manages to prove that a world like that would be beneficial to us all and not the anarchic dangerous wild west that many imagine.
For myself I must admit I often am amazed at how blessed we are to be living in a world in which the utilitarian and principled/moral views lead to the same optimal solution.
What an amazing world we live in!
His task is to demonstrate repeatedly and in depth that not only the emperor but even the 'democratic' State has no clothes; that all governments subsist by exploitive rule over the public; and that such rule is the reverse of objective necessity."-Murray Rothbard, For a New Liberty---------------------------------------------------------------"Take, for example, the liberal socialist who advocates government ownership of all the 'means of production' while upholding the 'human' right of freedom of speech or press.
The human right of a free press depends upon the human right of private property in newsprint."-Murray Rothbard, For a New Liberty---------------------------------------------------------------"It is true that, in the United States, at least, we have a constitution that imposes strict limits on some powers of government.
Another problem I have with libertarian doctrine is that he says the poor are poor because they are forced by the gov't to be poor.
While many of the social programs do do this, that's not the ONLY reason that they are poor.
In a libertarian society, the poor wouldn't be able to own their own houses either.
God forbid Gov't tries to help them out.The society proposed in this book would be highly unpredictable and unsustainable.
He says that communism is way different than libertarians and that only communism is impossible.
Yet, he doesn't see that a libertarian society, a different utopian society, is as impossible as communism.
Pretty good as far as manifestos go.
It felt really formulaic and dry, but managed to avoid that nagging, almost cultish creepiness that most manifestos seem to radiate.
All things considered, I'd say it's a great introduction to Rothbardian libertarianism, or in other words, the "controversial" """""""anarcho""""""-capitalism".
If you want to read this to legitimize your hatred and scorn of anything daring the word "capitalism", furrow your eyebrows into a comfortable scowl and get cracking; the only solidarity these fuckers are getting is your pointed, Marxist rebuttals up the ass...
If you're interested in Libertarianism, or in Libertarian thought, you do yourself a disservice by not reading this.
While I don't agree with every word uttered by Rothbard, he makes a compelling and incisive argument against big government.For me, this book gave me a lot to think on and evaluate within my own views.
The passion which he feels for liberty is tangible on every page, and makes this book (which could have been a very, very boring treatise) come alive.If you are interested in reading this, do it.

An important work for understanding libertarians in their own words. Read with caution.

Instead, persuade them with words or good deeds.The far bigger part of the book is the application of Rothbards principles to such topics as national defense, monetary policy, and crime and punishment.
Human Action and Man, Economy, and State teach you the economic theories that Rothbard subscribed to, Choice does the same if you want a much shorter (but still complete) book.
And, lastly, if you want to learn more about Rothbards philosophy, try his The Ethics of Liberty, an even better book that goes deeper and deals with some competing perspectives.
I could go on with the recommendations, but I have to stop myself somewhere.If you want to learn political philosophy, read this book.
"نحو حرية جديدة، مانيفستو الليبرتارية، أو البيان التحرري"يقول هانز هيرمان هوبه، بأنه لولا "موراي روثبورد" لما كان هنالك "أناركية رأسمالية" أو "لاسلطوية رأسمالية"أفكار روثبورد كانت مؤثرة وعميقة الأثر على المدرسة الرأسمالية التحررية ككل، واليمينية منها على الأخصلم يتم تبني الكثير من أفكاره المنبثقة بالضرورة عن مدرسته الاقتصادية، كالأفكار التي استعرضتها في المراجعة المبدئية لكتاب "ماذا فعلت الحكومة بأموالنا"https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...ولكن كان لأفكاره المعادية لما تبقى من سلطة الحكومة، عظيم الأثر في لفت أنظارنا لبعض فساد النظام المالي الحالي، وعقم البنوك المركزيةالكتاب يعتبر الشارح الأعظم لفكر "موراي روثبورد" التحرري بالكامل، وأتمنى إني ألاقي له وقت للقراءة وسط جدولي المزدحم
Rothbard was a prolific writer and master of concision. For A New Liberty feels a little dated, yet it was prescient. He laid intellectual groundwork for the liberal-society thought experiment.
Rothbard's arguments in favor of abortion aren't acceptable to me but outside of that - this book absolutely nails down the rules that should lay the foundation for a pluralistic and civil society.
Things like a system of private roads, large stateless societies and other libertarian wishes (which I thought that are supported by anarcho-capitalists, because of a priori assumption that they will be good) apparently did exist in a past, working well.
Only bad and worse - and I think that many different views on this have their own good points...But his claim that since women have self-ownership she can willingly get pregnant and just change her mind and it is totally cool is just disgusting.3) Environment So in a free society, you just can sue somebody if there are any harmful substances (or just noise) that harm you or your property.

For a New Liberty is the most deliberately apologetic libertarian literature I've encountered.
One that casts aside violent, indoctrinating, enslaving, sacrosanct state worship and instead relies on the axiomatic libertarian ideals of self-ownership.
He beautifully illustrates property rights and the importance of reputation in a free society.
In one excruciatingly relevant chapter Rothbard discuses fiat currencies and their pitfalls and goes on to describe something eerily close to our modern day crypto currencies.
As relevant as ever.
If you doubt the state's importance in building and maintaining a successful society, and even more importantly if you do not, For a New Liberty is super clutch.
One of the best, all-time books on the malevolence of the state, the government, what it stands for, and what it takes away from our freedom.
It is extremely hard to argue with any of the thoughts and logic laid out in this book.
The book is not easy to read in that it makes you ask the hard questions about your own belief systems, perhaps those very systems your parents have and you inherited from them, or picked up in college, or from your friends, or some day time talk show host.

Usually I have found libertarian texts difficult to engage with and too American for a European reader.
However, this text is quite different, lively and engaging, and very informative.
Though still having an American focus when discussing current issues of state involvement in personal liberty this seems reasonable given the history described and the origin of the author.
However, this is nicely counterbalanced by the description of the debt to the European tradition of classical liberalism which is well described.All in all an excellent primer to libertarian thought and a book which will change many minds and opinions.
Brilliant! The perfect introduction to libertarianism. Light and readable enough to be enjoyable for anyone, but with enough nuance and uniqueness to be a revelation even to long-time libertarians. Rothbard was truly a genius. Can't recommend highly enough!
Excellent. I wouldn't say it contains big ideas, it just tries to show how one small idea has been trampled on from all directions, but continues to survive, and is still well alive.
Dodatkowo, jeśli kogoś porwę i zamknę w klatce a następnie porzucę go na czyjejś ziemi, to czy właściciel nie powinien mieć prawa do popełnienia dowolnego okrucieństwa na tej osobie, ponieważ jest na jego własności nieproszona.
Oczywiście ktoś może mi zarzucić, że przesadzam, ponieważ zdecydowana większość ludzi nie jest psychopatami i pomoże takiej osobie.
Wszystkie sądy zobowiązywałyby się do honorowania wyroków sądów apelacyjnych."Rothbard w tym fragmencie tekstu zakładka arbitralnie, że wszystkie sądy będą przestrzegać NAPu. Co w sytuacji, gdyby mafia założyła własny sąd i pozywała do niego ludzi i nie uznawała odwołań?
But Rothbard here does admirably present those ideals of personal liberty without compromise across all aspects of human activity, always starting from the first principle of property rights enjoyed by the individual as a consequence of nature.
Many individuals may hold the assumption that government must necessarily provide services related to these areas and others because of the benefit to society, but Rothbard repeatedly makes the point that society itself is a noumenal figment, and again only the individuals which comprise society, and their attendant natural property rights, matter in a judicial analysis of perceived grievances related to things like assault, redistribution of wealth, and pollution.
O livro resume os ideais libertários, passando por uma breve história da liberdade nos EUA e sua decadência.Rothbard desenvolve bem e de forma simples o credo libertário e seus princípios, baseado no direito de propriedade, e seu antagonismo com a existência do estado.Neste livro gostei da abordagem um pouco diferente do padrão ao mostrar as aplicações libertárias aos variados problemas existentes hoje fruto da própria existência do estado, refutando ainda críticas de não libertários a essas propostas.Dá uma pincelada em economia mostrando a teoria dos ciclos econômicos (a Ricardiana e a Misesiana) e os malefícios do intervencionismo do governo na moeda.A parte que mais gostei se refere ao esclarecimento das dúvidas de libertários iniciantes (ou do resto da população) à privatização de polícia, ruas, leis e mieo ambiente.Traz fatos que mostram o perigo do imperialismo norte-americano, e como ele pode por diversas vezes ser pior do que qualquer país socialista no que tange à política externa.Rothbard finaliza esboçando uma estratégia para se alcançar a liberdade, composta por ações como o envolvimento na Academia, publicação de livros, dentre outras formas de educar os outros.
I can't recommend this book enough.
once in ebook format then I got the paper back.
There are some issues with this particular version of the book.
The one I have, has all kinds of formatting errors and it's completely missing the sources/references section.
It's still readable just a lot of annoyances: random spaces in the middle of words, sentences that are broken and moved down a few lines, random full sized numbers for sources instead of superscript also it only has some of them.
not sure if other parts are missing.
the ebook didn't have this problem.
who know though maybe i just got some crappy bootleg version.
I'm libertarian but I don't just swallow any explanation of how the society could work without any goverment. And that's what the author does in this book, he just gives a superficial explanation of very hard issues (as militar and police protection), in each case using a favorable assumtion of how society would react to that new scheme.In any case I recommend reading chapters 8 and 9, specially to readers not familiar with libertarianism, they are beautiful.
