https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2725.Illuminations
Thus, if you love books you must perforce bear some love—however imperceptible it seems—for life itself; and by this measure Benjamin's passion for existence must have been deep.My favorite of Benjamin's intellectual recipes is his brief essay on translation: confounding and difficult—a dialectic prose puzzle—but flush with profound insight and a depth of analysis that rings very true to me, especially that of a good translation advancing the suitor language, of necessity accessing the ur-language inherent to conveyed experience and which exists on a higher level even to the original tongue.
I'll never read another translated work without giving it serious thought from what I take to be Benjamin's proposition.I entered into the essay The Image of Proust with some trepidation, as I've yet to read his endlessly lauded literary paradigm and did not want to receive spoiling details.
To reduce it, Huxley comes across as the type of guy who thinks only one type of person (genius) is fit to produce art (his example is based on the art of writing), his view is that a greater amount of people creating (due to greater amount of reading public) has led to a high output of garbage art (literally he calls it garbage!) and vulgarity that caters to lowest common denominators.
But even on this issue I think people should consume art however they see fit, whether it be via concentration or the goal of distraction.
For every second of time was the strait gate through which the Messiah might enter.There are hardly enough superlatives for this amazing collection of essays concerning Baudelaire, Proust, Kafka, messianism and the aesthetic tension between the cultic and the exhibitional.
The thoughts on Kafka explore the mystical as well as the shock of the modern.
The shock of the urban and industrial is a recurring theme in these pieces.
It was a strange juxtaposition that this very morning I put down Illuminations and was enjoying my breakfast.
Benjamin's idea of aura has likely morphed into something strange over the intervening 70 odd years.
Its uniqueness, its cult value, its authenticity, its ability to "illuminate".Ironically, the way that we relate to mechanically reproduced books now replicates this sentimentality, even though it's rare for a book to be a single surviving copy (although I bet that it happens more than we suspect).Digital ReproductionIf Benjamin were to write his book now, it would probably be called and reconceived as "The Work of Art in the Age Of Digital Reproduction".Everything now has the ability to be digitally replicated and available.Even though he might have appreciated the increased access to culture (provided that you have cable), his attachment to his library parallels his appreciation of "illuminations".I like mine too, just like I love my CD collection.However, there are many people out there (here) who don't care for CD's and paper inserts, they just want the mp3, the music.The Container versus the ContentsThe method of reproduction is preoccupied with the container, whereas many people are now more interested in the contents.
Benjamin's writings on Proust, Kafka, Baudelaire and Leskov are really brilliant and engrossing.
His essay on Proust inspired me to start in on a second reading of Swann's Way, and his ideas on Baudelaire in relation to Poe and the history of the flaneur have been echoed by numerous critics hence.
Really, anyone interested in the art of writing needs to give some time to this collection.
And thankfully, at least in this collection (but less so in "Reflections"), he does not siphon his ideas on art through his sometimes annoying Marxist filter.

Reading Benjamin makes me realize how 98% of the conversations I have are a waste of time. His depth reaches far and his reading spreads vast.
Still, the beauty of such writing, and the tendency toward hyperbole so characteristic of the Frankfurt School, have no doubt played a great role in Benjamin's reputation as a critic.These essays, selected by Hannah Arendt, focus on a number of Modernist writers (Proust, Kafka, Baudelaire, Leskov [whom I hadn't heard of], Brecht) and their approach to society.
As a Marxist, Benjamin saw the cultural as tightly embedded in the political - as he concludes the most best-known essay in the book, The Work of Art in the Age of Mechanical Reproduction, Fascism seeks to make the aesthetic political (glorifying war and destruction), and Communism must respond by politicising the aesthetic.
me: i started trying to do a heidegger thing.
just finished the 'basic writings' book.
but am not feeling totally enthused.William: ughwhy heidegger?me: i dunno.
because he is so central?
influential?it is just a little boring.
a little, like: what's the point?William: seriouslyi have to finish up my heidegger-hoelderlin chapter and i'm so bored with heideggerso stodgy and airlessme: totallyWilliam: in contrast, if you read walter benjamin, from walter you can get interested in a myriad of different subjects: history, german romanticism, theater, capitalism, brechtwhereas if you read heidegger, it's this lonely little room where it's just fucking BEING all the time
I had never been much for theory before, and my initial encounter with his writing was sort of like one of those old 3D puzzle pictures: first, a dense field of mesmerizing psychedelic prose, and then POW!
MEANING!I don't gush over philosophy often, I swear (okay, I don't swear swear, but like, 89% swear) -- but this is love.
His haunting theories and beautiful metaphors have stayed on my mind ever since that sunny afternoon in Portland, Oregon when I sat gaping in wonder at my photocopy of "The Task of the Translator." No writer has ever made such a huge impact on my perceptions of thoughts, words, and art.If there's one thing I wish I could include in more conversations, it's Walter Benjamin!
Scary to read this now - relevant and haunting. Beautiful, dark prose. Brilliant and shadowy and mind-blowingly astute. Modern always in its observations and personal experience. His is the experience of all of us in a floating, unstable world. History and the present moment are the same - there is no time in Benjamin - and he tries desperately to teach us something. He listens to the world, the almost inaudible, and writes it faithfully and sadly.
Walter Benjamin just had that vision to see what was underneth his subject matter. Wonderful writer who can look at each layer of whatever subject matter he's writing about. Cultural critic before there were cultural critics. Now this is a man you would like to sit down and have a glass of wine with him. Alas not here with us anymore, so the second best thing is to have a glass of wine and read this book.
The essays collected here are all good to excellent. However, Harry Zohn's translations are appalling! The piece on translation is garbled into nonsense, basically, and the less said about the rendering into English of the artwork essay the better. Best to stick to the edition put out by Harvard University Press fairly recently.
Only read his Theses on the Philosophy of History from this collection.Jesus Christ, that is good writing.
I’d encountered Benjamin more through the way The Arcades Project always tends to crop up as one of the foundational texts of psychogeography, but you don’t go in on a thousand-page unfinished (and probably always unfinishable) volume as your first encounter with a writer, do you*?
And so forth.Still, once Benjamin does properly get on to Baudelaire, he's mostly brilliant - a reading through Freud seems of questionable use, but the correspondences to Proust are enlightening, and he's dead on with the idea of Baudelaire as at once the last great lyric poet and the one who sees the end of the traditional audience for lyric poetry.
Of the ten essays in the collection by far the most famous is The Work of Art in the Age of Mechanical Reproduction.
In this essay Benjamin discusses the impact of mechanical reproduction through photography and film on the nature of works of art, even so far as to shape the design of new works.
My favorite essay of the collection, however, is Unpacking My Library - a personal excursion into the life of a book collector and how each book intersects with one's life and effects the direction of that life.
With other essays on Kafka, Proust and Baudelaire this collection is one of my favorites - one to which I return from time to time.
I'm re-reading this book because that's what you do with a book like this. And especially with essays like "The Storyteller," "On Some Motifs in Baudelaire," "The Work of Art in the Age...," and "Theses on the Philosophy of History."
The writings of an interesting literary critic, a sincere and somewhat unorthodox marxist and a leftist mystic whose life will likely be remembered and redeemed on the Judgement Day. Most essays in it are very interesting, although in a few of them Benjamin's argument can get a bit contrived.
Benjamin ist einer der wenigen Philosophen, die nie aus der Mode kommen und immer wieder neu entdeckt werden. Dies liegt daran, dass er insbesondere in seinen - in dieser Sammlung enthaltenen - Aphorismen vor zukunftsweisenden Ideen sprudelt. Vom Blogger bis zu Youtube nimmt er alles vor 100 Jahren vorweg. Überall wo er völlig falsch liegt baut er auf Marx'sche Wirtschaftswissenschaft. Was manchmal erstaut, ist die gedankliche Nähe zu Heidegger.
As much as possible I select books that challenge my understanding of what lit&crit. can do and often enough I'm frustrated with shortcomings of comprehension - but I read them anyway. So a three star rating as in this case only denotes my lack of full clarity. It's a fine book sure, and so it goes.
I've read a significant chuck of this before, in classes and on my own, and quite a few of these essays are total classics. Benjamin's intelligence is quite unusual, and he can work around ideas in ways that normal folks (and for that matter, normal intellectuals) would just approach head on. Instead of writing about Proust's novels or Baudelaire's poems, he dances with them. It's a style I've only seen in Susan Sontag, and it's a style that she largely inherited from him.
I could have gone nowhere without Walter Benjamin.
Always facing the past ('the owl of Minerva takes flight at night', Hegel said; meaning that dialectical knowledge is retrospective) the 'contemplating' Angel is overwhelmed by historical action - the storm that has been blowing since the expulsion of humanity from paradise - and can never Himself achieve effective action.
And we also see that the Knowledge dialectical theory gains is precisely equal to the debris the storm hurls at the angel's feet.
This is perhaps why Benjamin insisted over 50 years ago that the dwarf Theology must guide the puppet Historical Materialism.
it wad recalled that Proust wrote a letter to a person he just visited: "My dear Madam, I just noticed that I forgot my cane at your house yesterday; please be good enough to give it to the bearer of this letter.
Does receiving a letter warm the heart?about kafka, benjamin seemed to be speaking of himself as well, "once he was certain of eventual failures, everything worked out for him en route as in a dream." in these writings, benjamin appears ambivalently lonelier than the typical intellectual poring over dusty manuscripts and coughing in libraries and also a bit luckier than them.
I read this set of essays primarily for "The Work of Art in the Age of Mechanical Reproduction".
The lengthy introduction by Hannah Arendt is very good, though dense.
The essays are mostly good, some are terrific, though Benjamin chases his tail a bit throughout each (particularly writing on Baudelaire).
The final essay, "Theses on the Philosophy of History" is a bit too Marxist and aphoristic for me, but you do you.
I highly recommend reading WoAitAoMR in tandem with his "A Small History of Photography", which dives much deeper into the nitty-gritty of aura.Overall, a damn fine set of essays.
obscure, boring then enlightening all the way through.
Benjamin embodied the cultural critic as hero.
Although Benjamin had a nearly fetishist tropism to books, he was unromantic in his discussions of how the storyteller has been eliminated from our cultural landscape.
The mass production of the story (in books or film) has led to a mass production of people.
As with art, criticism is now mass produced (like this thing I am writing with no authority save you who are reading it now).
Benjamin teaches how to read, not how to write.
Although not optimistic, there is hope nevertheless in Benjamin's work.
Wherever people strive for understanding, that is where you find translation.
Philosophy, trying to make statements about the world and how humankind connects with it, was of necessity dogmatic; the only truth available to us is found in our fictions (here he is close to Adorno, see my review of The Sovereignty of Art by Menke) and , for Benjamin, the spark that comes from bringing together unnoticed resemblances.And why not culture critic a la the Institute for Social Research, the group with which he is most closely associated?
Benjamin's reliance on correspondences rather than theory fed his hope for montage in both cinema and writing: he voiced a great desire to produce a work consisting entirely of quotes with no other interpolations.
Benjamin is best read carefully to the point where one loses oneself, just like the listeners of the storytellers in his essay on Leskov listen intently in the rhythm of their work; as a result the story is absorbed in their experience, allowing them to remember it and pass it on.
As someone somewhere already said, Benjamin’s sentences seem to slow to a near stillness in order to contemplate their object, and require the contemplation akin to that of the flâneur, another personage who captivated Benjamin’s interest.Benjamin’s essays on Proust, Kafka, Baudelaire, translation, and other topics develop specific theses about their objects but also correspond through shared contemplations about experience, tradition and memory, which give us a window into Benjamin’s concerns & thought.
Illuminations, originally published in 1955, is a collection of Walter Benjamin’s essays and other writings compiled by Hannah Arendt.
Of Benjamin’s own essays, “The Task of the Translator” has perhaps the most obvious relevance for rhetoricians.
The collection concludes with his “Theses on the Philosophy of History,” in which Benjamin argues that historical materialists, unlike traditional historicists, turn to the past as a form of remembrance--an idiosyncratic remembrance that interrupts universalized narratives complicit with history’s victors--in order not to be seduced by the promise of the future and “progress.” Such histories and historians preserve a sense of urgency by refusing to forget past injustices.
