https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11887020-american-sniper
Interestingly, his wife is not given any co-author status although she provides significant input throughout the book.Now all feelings about the propriety of this very controversial armed incursion into Iraq aside, one thing that turned me off about Kyle was his total lack of regard for his opponent.
He also repeatedly claims to be defending his country, although I know of no attempt on the USA by Iraq.I fully understand that he doesn't decide to send the troops over, and that he has a job to do, but please, Mr Kyle...just a little more regard for the human beings you're killing?

If people honestly still believe that war is something that soldiers absolutely loathe and they only do it to be upright citizens who want to defend their country and way of life, they need to read this book and War, The Junior Officers' Reading Club Killing Time And Fighting Wars and perhaps Brotherhood of Warriors, all ones I have read recently.
This author was the Top Guy, the best shooter of them all, planning his missions carefully, executing them perfectly and - who knew - taking along his notepad (on big missions, there was someone there with a laptop detailing the action!) to make detailed notes about each killing so that he could justify it as was required.
I tried hard to like this book, even if it started out with Chris describing Iraqi women and children as "evil savages" who he enjoyed killing.
The whole first half of the book recalls his days filled with abundant free time between training and waiting to go to war, which he spent fighting at bars, and eventually meeting his wife who "looked hot, and classy as hell in black leather pants." When he finally got around to describing the events of the war, he makes no effort to go into any details about the strategies or how a scene unfolded, but glosses over those incidentals to instead describe how great it felt to kill people.On top of all of this, the writing itself was horrific.
Before reading this book I had heard of Chris Kyle.
I just don't know.I don't know if they paint Chris Kyle in the movie as he has bared himself in the book.
She has parts of this book told in her voice and honestly it kept me from not liking Kyle completely that he added them in.
Another thing about Kyle was that even though he did not want to come off as bragging he couldn't help but repeatedly mention the fact that he has the highest number of confirmed kills of any sniper.
I read first hand accounts from the military commander in charge, all the way up to de-classified White House stuff.
I walked away from Kyle's book with the same attitude.
The value of this book is that Kyle wrote the story himself and did not leave it to historians in dusty libraries.
Most of all, I've walked away from this book with a sense of gratefulness that I can be sitting here behind my computer with my dog writing a commentary on a warrior's story while my family is safely at work and school.
The author comes across as an unsympathetic, often racist, gun-ho "shoot first, think later"-type - some of the best quotes:* "I don't shoot people with Korans - I'd like to, but I don't"* "At times, [killing] was a game"* "Giving them [the Iraqi people] the tools they needed to progress is not what my job was all about.
my job was killing, not teaching"Ah, how I cringed at the story of the mentally handicapped child* "I punched him and slapped him to the ground."Classy.What about his slogan, "violence does solve problems".
And to close out, Chris attempts to save face "I think America does a lot to support people".
The other night, watching the show ‘Stars Earn Stripes’, my son recognized Chris Kyle, the author of “The American Sniper”, a biography he read for a school assignment.
As Chris explains it, it's God, country and family.
It's being selfless and the need to protect all that you inherit from your forefathers, believe in, all that you have, and all that you are.American Sniper is Chris Kyle’s account on the Iraq war where he’s deployed 4 times.
We went there to protect fellow countrymen, fight for our country not Iraq.
But in that backroom or whatever it is when God confronts me with my sins, I do not believe any of the kills I had during the war will be among them.
after I recover.July 13, 2015Here's the review as promised.First of all, let me confess that I read the book only because I saw the movie.
(view spoiler)[And his killing of the mythical Iraqi sniper "Mustafa" by an impossible long range shot in the end is straight out of one of his old movies.
This is a book written by a Navy SEAL Sniper, not a professional author.
I don't know, maybe, but I think it would have made the book feel more like a "story", and less like an account of his experiences.
Mr. Kyle writes in the beginning of his book that he chose to write it because it had come to his attention that others wanted to tell his story, an he figured he'd better tell it himself.
This is a book about a real honest-to-God hero, written by the hero himself.
The thing that changed my mind about reading it was that a best friend of mine, a man who is about as far from a Navy SEAL as you can get (LOL) told me that he had read it and thought it was amazing.
He has a temper and also he is not a very patient person, until SEAL sniper training basically beats some patience into him.I also liked the segments that Kyle's wife, Taya, interjects throughout the book.
It would be beyond arrogant and presumptuous of me, someone who has never seen military combat in her life, to judge Kyle's actions in Iraq.The man has no introspective tendencies.
So I added this to my ever growing list of books that I wanted to read.There are few books that a person will come in contact with and will truely enjoy.
Not only will you cheer for the kill, but, you will find yourself with a tear for the soldiers and family.One of the truely cool things about this book was the added view points of his wife and family.
It was a refreshing and devestating feeling to now "know" from their perspective.There is a part in the book, that you know and dread is comming.
Just saw the movie.Clint Eastwood certainly presents the case very efficiently: if only we could kill all the people who hate America, the world would be a better place. Though at times I did suspect him of reductio ad absurdum.
It's I suppose that I've just finished it and it's in my mind.You will probably come away from this book with your own impression of Chris Kyle, his life and his beliefs.
I have badly damaged knees left that way I'm sure from a life time of heavy physical work.
BUT the first major injury to my left knee was in a "friendly fight" with a Marine (a U.S.Marine) when I was in the army.
He had no problem killing people because he fell for the brainwashing he was given that Iraqis are inherently evil and have no right to freedom, life, or property.It amazes me that someone can have so many experiences that should show their own hypocrisy yet they still fail to realize it.
If the U.S. was invaded by a foreign army that claimed we were just inherently evil and deserved to die wouldn't this author think we'd have the right to defend ourselves?
I know I would defend our country, and I know if I was Iraqi and some foreign invader came in to steal my property and freedom then I'd defend myself as well.Overall the book shows just how foolish some U.S. citizens are.
I’m torn.On one hand, this book was an interesting look into the day-to-day life of a soldier.
Mr. Kyle seems to have no qualms admitting to the less glamorous sides of war, including the bureaucracy surrounding everything a soldier does.
This is not the impression that you will get from this book, as it is filled with bar fights, disrespect for all people of the countries he fought in, and chauvinist posturing.
I don’t claim any personal knowledge of the situation over there, I only know what I read, and this is the impression that I got.I wouldn’t recommend this book to anyone.
This book showcases a pathological lack of introspection on behalf of its author. It takes a complex world at a chaotic time and reduces it to black and white so that he doesn't have to feel remorse or contemplate the root causes of violence and how it might have been avoided in the first place. I respect Chris Kyle's service and hoped to find a thoughtful reflection on his experience in Iraq but this cowboy turned Navy Seal's lack of self-reflection was really hard to read.
It was very familiar reading Chris's experience and understandings and recognizing myself when I join the Marine Corps both to fight for my country and to prove myself right before the first gulf war.
If you don't understand the mindset of our young men and women being willing to kill for, and die for their country, then I recommend that you read this book.
It was not fun for me to read - but it was very familiar.
My one fear about this book and others like it is that people reading it begin to romanticize war and violence.Sure, it is exciting.
Chis Kyle...Navy SEAL...Sniper...husband...father...leader...patriot!“The Navy credits me with more kills as a sniper than any other American service member, past or present."What fascinated me most with this book was being able to understand the thoughts behind these type warriors.
However I didn't care I just wanted his thoughts, the writing style didn't matter to me with this one;)The book touches on all aspects of his life, so not only do we get all the gory war details and the hardships faced during wartime but also the toll all the deployments had on his wife and family.
After just a few pages it became apparent that to fairly review Kyle’s book one must first, and separately, express one’s views on Kyle himself.
I have read several books on the war and American Sniper provided an unparalleled picture of snipers’ roles during the campaigns in Fallujah and Ramadi and how they supported other military units.One section of the book that falls short is where Kyle describes the weapons and equipment he used.
Kyle’s memoir was more candid than most and I suspect that readers who don’t often read first person accounts of war may struggle to appreciate his point of view.
nothing against these types of books, just not my normal read.
I got this as a christmas gift from my Aunt Eileen so I figured why not step out of my book zone and try it?:)I was surprised by how much I enjoyed this...
you get to see her love for her husband, her struggles when he was on deployment.The way this is written, I felt like I was in Chris's head or walking beside him as he explained things and showed us what he and his platoon and all of them went through.
I chose to read the book after Chris Kyle was killed while on a gun range.
I found myself liking and almost admiring Kyle at times for his bravery, patriotic loyalty, and his "aw shucks, I'm just doing my job and I'm not anyone special" attitude.
I was never tempted to stop reading the story, and I like that Kyle was candid in his portrayal of what he does - he's very human - part hero, part badass, part humble, part good ole boy - all that is needed to be the man and SEAL he needed to be in order to get the job done.
I really liked the movie that was based on this book. That was until I read the book unfortunately poetic licence from the film makers has taken over again. Why take a great book then mess around with the truth of it had Chris kyle still been around I think the movie would of been totally different. That being said I loved the book.....honest and captivating and written with a bit of wit in harrowing and horrific circumstances its a very good read. Recommended.
This book is presented from the perspective of Navy Seal Chris Kyle and I listened to it via Audiobook.I had seen the film advertised and before I watched that thought I would check out this book before hand.
(We do hear some 1st person segments from his wife which explain both sides of the spectrum of being in love with a long absent war hero).
What seemed like nameless friends of Chris at the start who fleet in and out of the story - now become people you really feel for and you can imagine that war doesn't end happy for everyone.
Straightforward, not politically correct, raw, honest story of a SEAL at war.
Very good at his main job of killing his enemy, honest in his description of his evolution from young, idealistic warrior to hardened combat veteran.
I appreciated his wife's contributions to the story.
Non-military readers will gain an appreciation of how the family has to deal with someone deployed to the combat zone (and what happens when they get back).
How sad he was killed by a veteran suffering from PTS, after all the wild combat situations he survived.
I can't believe Chris Kyle is gone, he has left a void in this world that can't be replaced. I really enjoyed the writing in his own words. I felt like I got to know him, feel what he was feeling, experiencing. The man was a American Hero, he did what his country ask of him, he did more than ask of him, there needs to be more Americans with the same values and beliefs as Chris.
Wow. This book is amazing.First, as this is a book about a soldier who killed people in a highly controversial war, I'm going to say that my review will be as devoid of politics as possible.
If you hate it, run for office and rid the world of war yourself.This book gets 5 stars on its own merit, even without a personal appreciation of Chris Kyle or a supportive mindset with regards to post-9/11 US foreign policy.
Here's a short list of things that happen in the movie that either don't happen in the book or aren't nearly as dramatic as they seemed in theaters:- for the movie's intro, Kyle kills a woman and her child.
American Sniper by Chris Kyle is narrated by John Pruden and it is an intense enlightening book. Chris Kyle was a US Navy SEAL and he has the most career sniper Kills in US military History. He had always loved exciting activities such as champion bronco rider. The training he went through was just unbelievable. He loved that training too. He wanted to be included in the Iraqi war, he was excited to be there. That he loved his time in battle was interesting, but I understood how he would feel t
American Sniper by Chris Kyle is narrated by John Pruden and it is an intense enlightening book.
Chris Kyle was a US Navy SEAL and he has the most career sniper Kills in US military History.
He loved that training too.
He tells his story without making himself sound over the top, he talks about being invincible while in Iraq, yet he would break toes and fingers while back home on leave.
Chris Kyle made this story very personable.
He is also quick to tell of the sacrifices of his platoon members.
His telling of the other members of the team makes you feel like you know them.
The story is not about the words Chris wrote; it is about the emotions his words conveyed.
At times, this story had me choking back tears.
At times, I was appalled at Chris and his buddies' views on death and war.
At times, it seemed as if chapters were lifted from the book and reset within the pages and given a minimal reworking because the same thing happened over and over and over again.
All of this is okay because this style of storytelling really puts the reader in the minds of Chris and his team members.Read this book.
But think while you are reading it.
I think it takes courage to put out into the world a naked piece of your inner self.
So with that little disclaimer, I'll start this review .....
I think this was not written well.
This also didn't feel honest.
The only thing that came through was how much he loved being a sniper.
I think not, but that is all I got from this.
I wanted to feel like I understood him and I never got that.I did appreciate the look that was given to being a SEAL and the rigors of the job.
That part felt honest.
