https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/164397.Home_Cooking
I haven't read this author at all -- I just happened to see the cover online and want to track down the book and find out who painted it.
My good friend Rachel B and her mom have read Laurie Colwin for years.
So when it came time for me to buy Rachel some presents as a "thank you for hosting me in San Francisco" gift, I knew that one item had to be the collected food writing of Laurie Colwin.
And that I needed this gift, too.Interestingly, I've been very sparing with these essays.
I need to go get the other collection of food essays, read her novels and also use her recipe for gingerbread sometime very soon.

I haven't run across much food writing that can make me laugh out loud, but this book did just that.
You need not be a cook to enjoy the book, but it might make you want to start using your kitchen for more than just the microwave oven.
There are informal recipes scattered throughout the book, and some more formal ones at the end of most of the essays.
We learn by doing." If you've had your share of kitchen disasters, Colwin is here to commiserate.
I'll be keeping it on hand for kitchen reference, and just for laughs.
Reading Laurie Colwin is like sitting in a friend's kitchen sharing a cup of tea.
She shares favorite recipes, dining experiences and opinions on food along with stories of notable disasters.
This book is the food writer's version of comfort food.
The recipes are good and the cooking advice is sound.
The creamed spinach with jalapenos is wonderful, the gingerbread delicious, and the potato salad very good.
I enjoy rereading it every January while there is snow on the ground and think about it when peppers and eggplant are in season.
Like Laurie, I fry them in olive oil for myself when no one else is around.
I didn't know it then, but Laurie Colwin was already dead of a heart attack.I read A Big Storm Knocked It Over, and then went on to read Happy All the Time, a book that I still own, that I left out in the rain and has a cover that separated and then dried in wrinkles, and Family Happiness, and then I discovered Laurie Colwin's food writing, and I read this book, and More Home Cooking, both of which I checked out of the public library.And then I learned that she had died, a year before I had even discovered her and I felt grief because there would be no more books by Laurie Colwin and I hadn't even known it.Home Cooking is an oddly wonderful book, a collection of stories about food written by someone who told stories about food and friendship and how food is friendship, and sometimes friendship is food.
While I enjoyed it, I also felt like perhaps me, as a cook, has changed.
If you never stuff a chicken with paté, you will never know that it is an unwise thing to do, and if you never buy zucchini flowers you will never know that you are missing one of the glories of life." Reading this was like having a friend in the kitchen, talking ever so quietly to you as you cook.
While I enjoyed reading this and didn't give one thought to putting it down, I was a little disappointed it didn't affect me like it did the first time I read it.
And, for an unsurpassed double whammy, there is talking about eating while you are eating with friends." I would add: one of the delights of my life is drinking tea and eating a thick slice of gingerbread cake whilst rereading this charming, humorous book for the umpteenth time.This is not a book that I actually cook from all that often, and I will admit that some of the recipes are a bit hinky, but for reading about food, and the pleasures of sharing it, I cannot think of a book that I would recommend more .
Laurie Colwin is plain winsome.
I moseyed my way through her comfort-filled chapters.
I'm conflicted about the decision to keep or release this book.
It's reassuring reading you could pick up, read a random chapter, and set down again.
I have precious saffron from the Istanbul Spice Bazaar waiting for worthy recipes!Really, there are so many things I appreciated, like this list of items worth spending money for: sweet butter, good olive oil, high-quality vinegar, sea salt, fresh pepper, fresh herbs, raw sugar.
So sad: Laurie Colwin didn't wake up one morning when she was 48.
I have her companion book, More Home Cooking on my nightstand.
When people who must provide meals are too tired to think of what to cook, those old standbys come to the rescue.
These are things a person can cook half asleep.This is a really lovely collection about cooking food and feeding it to yourself and others.
If you are person who likes to cook, I'd very much recommend this book.There is something triumphant about a really disgusting meal.
I am not thinking of kitchen disasters - chewy pasta, burnt brownies, curdled sauces: these can happen to anyone.
This is just the thing when you're feeling discouraged in the kitchen or in life.
She was interested in food, the tastes, the smells, the textures, even the visuals - not the plating like a chef would use, but how does it look when it comes together.
She's full of life and joy and the pleasures of food.
She was a food columnist and a fiction writer.
These essays took me into her home and made me feel like we were chatting over tea.
Although it is unlikely I will make many of the recipes, what I took away from this book, beyond the basic joy, was how much fun cooking can be even when it is a disaster.
There's nothing like a Laurie Colwin book and this is one of the best. She's a lovely and wonderful friend in my head and reading her is just pure comfort and joy. Her outlook on life makes me so happy. Read this! Read everything by her and, when you're done, read it again.
Never mind the logistics of fitting everyone around the table or what time dinner should be served.As I fussed with recipes, shopping, and planning, Laurie Colwin was like an old friend whose quiet presence reassured me it would all turn out just fine.
During this time, I was too preoccupied to read much, but her short essays were the perfect diversion.
By 21st century standards, the essays in Home Cooking: A Writer in the Kitchen certainly feel dated, but Colwin's warmth and personality shine through, so I didn't mind one bit.And that's really the point, anyway.
Not many cooks own up to that fact - cooking is a learning process and one makes a few mistakes along the way.
Colwin also shares that sometimes, recipes just do not turn out the way you expect.
Three stars, although I would have given this two most of the way.
I really skipped over most of the recipes, as I'm vegetarian (which Colwin puts down as pretentious and obnoxious).
I would like to try the gingerbread cake though...
I love ginger cookies and have never had a good gingerbread cake.
Baking gingerbread perfumes a house as nothing else.
'Home Cooking' was published in 1988* so I assumed I would not be able to relate. Boy was I wrong: I was smiling through most of the book. Colwin's writing style is so charming, engaging, honest, and witty, her stories are timeless. This was the most delightful book I've read in a long time. How Laurie Colwin managed to escape my bookshelves for so long is beyond me. I carry either 'Home Cooking' or 'More Home Cooking' (the follow-up) with me everywhere I go. *it was originally published by Knopf Doubleday
I just revisited this book as an audio edition, and was as delighted with it as I was with my first reading of the book years ago. Now I am hoping that there is an audio edition of the follow up book, More Home Cooking: A Writer Returns to the Kitchen, in the offing!
Home Cooking: A Writer in the Kitchen is a delightful, albeit slightly dated (published in 1988), collection of essays on home cooking and entertaining. Colwin is at her funniest when describing dinner parties and dishes gone horribly awry, but the tone of the whole is engaging and personal. Her voice is both self-deprecating and assured. If you like to cook, this is definitely worth the read.
I ADORE this book. This is the most accessible and enjoyable food writing I have ever read. She maintains a down-to-earth tone and made me actually giggle with her honest reflections on cooking and eating. Love, love, love.
Wonderful recipes abound here--creamed spinach with jalapenos and bread crumbs, an exotic West Indian Black Cake, a beef stew with clove-studded onions that makes me yearn for cold weather so I can prepare it, and fried chicken "so good it makes people want to stand up and sing 'The Star-Spangled Banner.'" And how can you not love a writer who writes: "Invention is the necessity of mothers?" (This in an essay on how she cleverly stretches a green salad to accommodate a friend and her daughter who unexpectedly drop by for lunch.)The book is often hilarious.
This is one of my longtime favorite books, but it's never made it to my Goodreads list.
I love her pieces on what to feed guests and kitchen disasters and her early days cooking in a teeny NYC studio apt.
She obviously had a lot of influence on well-known food writers and bloggers today (such as Orangette, Smitten Kitchen, etc).
It makes me wonder how she would have adapted to the online food world if she were still alive.
Recommended if you like food memoirs and little bits of recipes woven into a story.
Her 2nd Home Cooking book is also good!
Laurie Colwin was really nothing like what I was expecting. A little snarky, a little self-deprecating, and, actually, way older. Her writing style was conversational and blogesque so I was SO surprised to find out that she passed away in 1992, really, before the internet age even arrived. At first I found her a little overbearing or dogmatic in some of her opinions. 😆 But hey, it's her book, right. I can't wait to try out her idea of putting jalapeno into creamed spinach. I have never heard of such a thing.
Home cooking is a book of essays about feeding friends and family, cooking for them. It was an enjoyable read. I used it for MMD 2017 Reading Challenge #2 Reading for Growth, #4, A book of poetry, a play or an essay collection.
What you need to know is, while I am by no means an extraordinary cook like Laurie Colwin, I greatly enjoy talking about recipes, sharing cooking methods, and doing in-the-moment post mortems on the meals I make for family and friends.
This book is like a long, luscious deep dive into that kind of intimate and satisfying conversation.
I have come away with a few gobsmacking insights and techniques, as well as several enticing recipes that I suspect will become mainstays in my rotation.
More than anything, I have come away with a renewed appreciation for simplicity in the kitchen.
Another book that I bought for $1 while working as a volunteer at our local library book sale. I had read Happy All the Time, a novel by Colwin and enjoyed it. This book was a light-hearted account of cooking with chapters like Friday Night Supper or The Same Old Thing or Kitchen Horrors.I tried one recipe for Warm Potato Salad with Fried Red Peppers. It was pretty awful.
A lovely book. I looked forward to "visiting" with Laurie every evening. Some great ideas and recipes, too, that I hope to try!
I loved this book! Devoured it!
This was such a warm and pleasant read. With some interesting recipes to try, too.I hope to soon follow this up with her second collection of cooking essays and some of her fiction.
I loved this so much that when I finished I felt this pang. Like I missed her voice. Knowing she's not around anymore but I have the rest of her works to feel her through. I laughed out loud and made potato salad and eggplant and bell peppers and I'm sure many more things in the future, while holding her rollicking, kind spirit near.
This was a very fun book, which never made you feel bad about how little you cook or how you cook, but makes you identify with fellow kitchen dabblers trying to find there way. Can get a little evangelical at times about certain foods but is very enjoyable nonetheless.
Laurie Colwin’s discourse on ingredients, recipes, and feeding family and guests, exemplifies good cooking and eating as the most unconsciously natural activity in the world.
The sub-plot of this book, brimming with whimsical and good natured humour, reassures that good eating really does require no more effort than a modicum of curiosity and intelligence in learning how to cook, and an awareness of time, space, and some application of thought.This book prompted so many questions to pop into my head.
On p.124 Laurie Colwin, describes the pleasure and knowledge she derived from reading Mrs Arthur Webb’s “Farmhouse Cookery” https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1...
