https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/546454.The_Voyage_of_the_Space_Beagle
July2016: I'm rereading this for the "Evolution of Science Fiction" group read here:https://www.goodreads.com/topic/show/...The title makes it obvious, but this is an exploration of strange new creatures - not much of strange new worlds, though.
My old 1950s copy doesn't have one in it, but it reads very well as a novel now, so I'm not listing it as short stories.Black Destroyer 1939, (chapters 1 to 6) is about the Coeurl, one of the last creatures alive on a dying planet.
Van Vogt collected three short stories together into a novel.
Perhaps it’s merely anachronistic: this novel is, after all, from the golden age of Science Fiction.
We are so used to high concept SF these days that it’s somewhat hard to imagine what folk would have experienced when reading this in the 1940s when the sequence was first published (as M33 in Andromeda, Astounding, 1943).Needless to say, the Voyage of the Space Beagle has influenced the field of Science Fiction and pop culture to a momentous extent.
The novel carries its years pretty well, all things considered, and despite the fact that the Space Beagle still sports a mail chute.
He also shares the standard characteristics of Van Vogt's heroes: he is a master of a superscience unknown to other men, capable of predicting them and controlling them through crystals and hypnotism.As in Slan, Van Vogt is not above resolving plot conflicts through convenient introductions of supertech, but here, those resolutions are often secondary to the protagonist's interpersonal relationships and moral quandries.
Early on, we see him making many small, manipulative moves, reading and weighing those around him.Eventually, Van Vogt gives in to the sci fi author's vice of overexplaining, and reveals that Grosvenor is acting this way because he is a student of a new, unproven science, a superscience that combines all the other sciences and relies on hypnotic sleep-learning.
The narrative is mainly from the perspective of Elliot Grosvenor, who is is the lone representative on the ship of his particular scientific field; Nexialism.
Once particular scientific notion that is often called upon to help them overcome an alien menace is the cyclic theory of civilization and one wonders if this is quite an old fashioned notion by today's standards?The depiction of the alien creatures is deeply imaginative and the excitement and tension of the book never lets up.
One might be inclined to criticise the book for it's fairly flat depiction of characters but to my mind this shouldn't detract from the fact that read as SF, it ticks every box.
One of the earliest SF novels I read, even before Asimov.
At the time, I felt it was fantastic.
However, the sheen has reduced over the years.This book is an episodic novel, based on the spaceship "Space Beagle"'s journey of exploration (maybe inspired by Darwin and the H.M.S. Beagle), and deals with many exotic species (I remember one living in empty space).
But my clearest memory is about "Nexialism", where knowledge from one area of expertise is used in another area, a sort of "stringing-together" science.
The name stayed in the mind because of its similarity to "Naxalism", the name for Leftist Extremist philosophy in India at that time.
1939 ile 1950 yılları arasında yazılmış dört hikayenin birleştirilmesiyle oluşmuş bir bilimkurgu klasiği. Öykülerden biri Alien filmine konu olmuş. Blimkurgu meraklılarının ilgisini daha fazla çekeceğini sanıyorum, ancak içinde tarih, sosyoloji, siyaset, bilim gibi konulara ilişkin güzel tespitler de yer almakta. Çok kötü bir kitap olsaydı (ki kesinlikle değil) bile Alien hatrına okunması gereken bir kitap olurdu.7/10
Deserturi arse de sori mai dogoritori decat cei care lumineaza pamantul au fost inlocuite cu oceane frematand de viata.” Neoprindu-se aici, oamenii s-au indreptat si spre spatiul galactic construind o nava uriasa cu mii de oameni la bord, si lansand-o in spatiu cu scopul principal de a identifica si a cerceta formele extraterestre de viata.
In final, lasand la o parte pericolul contactului cu speciile necunoscute se observa ca reusita expeditie sta in stiinta omului de-asi invinge prejudecatile si de a renunta, chiar si pentru o clipa, la propriile-i convingeri posibil eronate.“Odiseea navei Space Beagle” este un roman, intregit de cele patru povestiri desigur, foarte antrenant, capabil sa surprinda neincetat cititorul prin firul desfasurarii evenimentelor.
The eponymous ship is several million light-years from home when it's attacked by a mysterious disembodied entity.
It turns out that the aggressor is a huge, non-sentient creature that has grown to fill its entire galaxy.
we can't have disembodied, galactic-sized aliens attacking human spacecraft, can we!
(Truth to tell, their dictionary also lacked many other words, vocabulary not being A.E. van Vogt's greatest strength, but let's not get diverted).
So they build self-replicating nuclear missile factories, presumably equipped with their own faster-than-light drives so that they can spread quickly enough, and soon the creature's galaxy is filled with robot missile bases.
Let me see if I understand: these explorers are the product of a galactic civilization, with atomic foundries to transmute base metals into super-substances, the ability to transverse and leave the galaxy itself, to reignite stars and relocate planets...and their interoffice mail system is based on pneumatic tubes?There's a tremendous subtext at play throughout the entire work.
In addition to the obvious fight-the-phenomenally-dangerous-monster plot lines, there are meditations on Oswald Spengler's model of civilization--particularly the analogy of seasons--and on the interaction of politics, command structure, and specialization of knowledge.Of course, van Vogt has thoughts on all this.
A.E. van Vogt's The Voyage of the Space Beagle is a collection of four short stories cobbled together.
From the third story came the idea for the movie Alien.You remember the words that started the show: “Space, the final frontier.
Needless to say, the character of Ripley, played by Sigourney Weaver, was not part of The Voyage of the Space Beagle, as all its crew were chemically castrated males.There are many treasures from the Golden Age of Science Fiction (mostly the 1950s) that are worth re-examining.
The main guy seems to be the proto-Spock - a guy trained in a new science called Nexialism, some kind of "all-sciences-into-one" with hints of individualism/libertarianism with a healthy dose of what science-fiction in the 50s was like (electronic telepathy, mind-controlling, funky big machines etc).Each story is about the crew encountering an unknown, but superior alien organism.
The first story is a LOT like the first Alien movie (I think the author sued and got some money), and each time the main guy, thanks to his superior intellect and background, defeats the alien using logic (and his gadgets).
Разказите споделят общи главни герои и идея, което ги сплотява в приличен роман.Отново се вижда вдъхновението, което автора е насадил в редица излезли по-късно фантастични произведения, придобили култов статус в жанра, като сериала Стар Трек (главният герой очевидно е прототип за Спок) и филма Пришълецът (единият от извънземните антагонисти е почти неунищожимо същество, на което са нужни човешки гостоприемници за износване на яйцата му), както и в редица романи, между които най-много ми изпъква „Слепоглед” на Уолтс.Българското заглавие е правдиво, но леко лъже читателя, като набляга на извънземните форми на живот заставащи на пътя на научната експедиция, докато фабулата в книгата е насочена към отношенията между членовете на екипажа и доминантната фигура на Гросвенър.Спейс бигъл е космически кораб с екипаж от военни и учени, чиято цел е чисто изследователска.
Hm.) However, none of the characters in this novel come anywhere close to the depth and charm Martin used to draw Haviland Tuf, one of my favorite SF characters of all time.In the end, I would only recommend "The Voyage of the Space Beagle" to people who have an interest in the history of the genre and are willing to overlook some of the flaws common in older genre fiction.
It is divided up into four stories, all of them tied together by the fact that they all happened on this particular voyage of the Space Beagle -- a craft and crew which was put together to explore new worlds & galaxies.
There is an encounter with a cat-like creature with tentacles who feeds on "id" on a desolate planet who threatens the ship & its crew (and possibly humanity); 2.
an attack through psychic means by a bird-like population of aliens living in an outer galaxy; 3.
4. another encounter with an attacking alien creature.
"Voyage of the Space Beagle" ("VOSB") is one of the seminal works of early "hard" science fiction by this master.
The book is clearly inspired by Charles Darwin's exploratory mission on HMS Beagle, as well as the inspiration for the basic concept of the original Star Trek.
One of the stories is a direct inspiration for at least one Star Trek episode in the original TV series, another for the creature in the Alien film series.
What is remarkable is that van Vogt could envision these concepts 20 years before Yuri Gagarin became the first human being to orbit the earth in a space craft.
Great classic SiFi. The four adventures of the crew were originally short stories published in digest and rewritten into book form. One of the stories is the basis for the movie Alien and the entire book is obviously the germ of the idea for Star Trek. The Main character is Spock to a large degree. Nice easy and entertaining read. Recommended
(I’ve mentioned before that I’m not what you would classify as a ‘long-time’ reader; I started reading fairly voraciously about twenty years ago, and I have a pretty long bucket list of titles to get through.) I decided it was time that I make my way through a few of these and/or a few others that had been recommended via other sites, so A.E. Van Vogt’s THE VOYAGE OF THE SPACE BEAGLE is the next one up in my adventures.(NOTE: The following review will contain minor spoilers necessary solely for the discussion of plot and/or characters.
When I was in college, learning about the history of sci fi, I developed a pretty strong prejudice against A.E. van Vogt.
In the years since, I’ve come to be more appreciative of the earlier history of sci fi, but for some reason I never gave van Vogt a chance.
For D&D nerds like me, one trivia fact of interest is that the alien in the first story in this novel was the inspiration for the “displacer beast” of the 1st Ed. Monster Manual.
While I didn't like the fact that four short stories where pasted together ('fix-up novel' apparently is the correct term for these publications), overall it was an entertaining read - I particularly enjoyed the first story (Space Beagle vs Coeurl aka "pussy") and the last one (Space Beagle vs Anabis, the carnivore galaxy).
He is essentially a super-expert, leagues ahead of his close-minded and lackadaisical colleagues, but the coolness coming from him and his attitude that I perceived while reading the book was the book's best part in my opinion.
Nexialism, essentially a mixture of all sciences + hypnosis, is a very cool concept.
Alien'e ilham kaynağı olmuş bölümleri olduğu kesin. Keyifle okunuyor ama biraz basit kaçıyor.
I am rarely entertained by such works--they're rooted in certain assumptions of humanity that can only elicit "a white man totally wrote this" for someone like myself.
The protagonist is the Gariest Stu I've read in a while (only because I avoid white male protagonists these days) and while I find Nexialism the concept very interesting, there was an undercurrent of smug superiority in the guise of earnest desire to improve the human race.
(Similarly in Slan there is a smug superiority in the guise of oppressed evolved being.) It's a narrative that appeals to a certain class of the bullied, and hence clear to see its appeal.
The story, like that told in The World of Null-A, has as its protagonist a superhero.
In this case it is a genius scientist who is a Nexialist (one skilled in the science of joining together in an orderly fashion the knowledge of one field of learning with that of other fields).
This novel, like many of van Vogt's novels is an amalgam of several short stories.
The combination of imaginative aliens, the superhero protagonist, and the environment of suspenseful action makes this an unforgettable science fiction reading experience.
I read this when I was still a kid and I loved the fact that the hero was a scientist whose "specialization" was generalization. He was the one who saw the whole picture, instead of just a narrow slice.
A story about mad scientists competing for control of The Death Star on an intergalactic mission while being attacked by ghosts and monsters really should have been more entertaining!  Whiz-kid Elliot Grosvenor is the new kid on the block in a huge spherical ship packed with 800 scientists. He's a “Nexialist” which is some kind of hooey about all scientific disciplines thrown together and used by guys who learn wicked-fast through hypnosis and other methods. He's the only Nexialist aboard and t
There are various psychic attacks, a red devil-thing that can pass through walls, and a cat-monster with tentacles that the crew only ever refers to as “pussy” (it kills like 50 people and they keep calling it that!).
If I seem unduly harsh to this book, one of the reasons is that Van Vogt sued the creators of the 1979 masterpiece “Alien” over what he thought was plagiarism.
One of the monsters in Van Vogt's book puts eggs in people, but he has to insert them manually (no face-hugger) and none of the creatures look a thing like Giger's Alien.

The message of this science fiction novel seems to be that mankind should never leave this solar system. I was hoping that a space ship with over 800 scientists, intent on exploring new worlds, was exactly the novel I wanted to read. They encountered great danger over and over. I'm looking for a positive science fiction novel about exploring the stars.
Slan  is certainly Van Vogt’s best-remembered novel, but I’ve got to admit that I enjoyed this one an awful lot more. Slan had non-stop whiz-bang action and enough big-concept SF ideas to make your head explode, but the hero was too powerful and the author was clearly making up the story as he went along. Space Beagle’s hero, on the other hand, starts off as a complete underdog – on a starship full of military personnel and scientific departments competing for power and position, Eliot Grosveno
No one takes him seriously, even though he’s usually the one with the only viable plan to save the ship from catastrophe.Space Beagle is edited together from a quartet of separate stories, making it extremely episodic.
Each of the alien menaces the crew of the Beagle faces is existential in nature (fight or die, in other words) so instead of the overt conflict between good and evil you would expect from the pulp era, the character conflicts all revolve around power politics and the ethics of how far one should go to save their lives, their ship, or their civilization, especially when mind-control becomes a weapon in your arsenal.One last neat touch that I enjoyed was Van Vogt’s habit of personalizing his alien monstrosities.
At times the Space Beagle travelers seemed as alien to me as the otherworldly beings and places they destroy.
Excuse me, "explore." If I were to summarize the plot lines, I'd say: The Space Beagle came, it saw, it perceived a threat, it conquered--Next.
And they don't have sexual desires because...well, you'll find out.Some reviewers see the germ of the movie Alien in one of the stories.
The mission of the Space Beagle is to go to another galaxy, not open-ended exploration of our galaxy and first contact with alien cultures.
The science is outdated and probably was inaccurate even at the time of writing and the writing style is of the pulp magazine variety.
It was written before the genre of science fiction had quite matured and it does not have the sophistication that later science fiction gained, but at the same time it was more sophisticated than later things like Star Wars, for example.
It reminded me of the kind of science fiction that I was reading as a teenager even if my teenage years were in a time period in which the genre of science fiction was maturing.
incredibly lame pulpy science fiction.
more of a collection of short stories loosely stitched together than a novel.
i got through the first quarter before jumping ship.
a catlike alien who can manipulate electrical impulses takes over a ship crewed by the dumbest humans in space and wreaks havoc.
they keep calling the alien "pussy" and the word is used at least 100 times within the first 50 pages.
this sort of nonsense plays out better in a roger corman or lloyd kaufman film.
maybe it was a "classic" when first released (i doubt it), but it certainly does not age well at all.
