https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1308899.The_Artamonov_Business
Gorky's book, originally published as The Artamonov Business, is about the decline (decadence) of the Russian middle class between the years 1863 and 1918--or in other words, between the serf's emancipation and the Bolshevik revolution. It is a character study depicting the Artamonov family over three generations, as their family business at first thrives and then declines as the family itself declines and the social revolution gains impetus. Peter, the eldest son observes, "The business is growing," while the family's groundskeeper (and self-styled philosopher) says, "A business is like mould in a cellar. It grows by its own force."
I have enjoyed almost all of it I have read, although I greatly preferred Anna Karenina to War and Peace.
Last year, though, I made a run at The Brothers Karamazov, and although I had thoroughly enjoyed both Crime and Punishment and The Idiot, I found I got bogged down and never got through it.
Some day, I may try to go back, but for the moment, I'm content to let that one lie.Note: The rest of this review has been withheld due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
THE ARTAMONOV BUSINESS. (1925; this ed. 1955). Maxim Gorky. ***. Frankly, I hadn’t heard of this novel by Gorky before I found this edition in an early Folio Society edition from 1955 in a translation by Alec Brown with woodcuts by Peter Pendrey. I’ve read a couple of other things by Gorky (1868-1936), but, in general, he tends to be too didactic for my taste. This novel, which carried forward his reputation for social realism, displayed what he felt was the failure of the freeing of the serfs b
Frankly, I hadn’t heard of this novel by Gorky before I found this edition in an early Folio Society edition from 1955 in a translation by Alec Brown with woodcuts by Peter Pendrey.
It is set in the town of Dronov.
They have come from one of larger cities to make their fortune by building and operating a linen plant in this town.
They ultimately convince the villagers to plant sufficient flax and to come work in their factory.
If you are interested in Gorky’s viewpoint on the freeing of the serfs and their chances of success, this novel will certainly provide it.
Gorky's theorises that capitalist ambition and energy become diluted in a family enterprise by the time the grandchildren come of age to take the reins.
Loosely based on his reading of Henry Ford's memoirs and the Vanderbilt family history, he creates a distinctly Russian epic with characters doomed from the start.
His descriptions of the Russian landscape are sublime and an absolute highlight of this novel which while not wholly successful to my mind picks up pace in the second half as the families doom is sealed.
The Artamonovs are a difficult family to like, dysfunctional in many ways they don't seem to like each other. The Artamonov Business or Decadence as this version is called follows the family across three generations. The majority of the central characters are male with the women appearing as only minor characters.
I enjoyed this family saga set in Russia from the time of the Emancipation of the serfs until the Bolshevik Revolution.
The first in line was a freed serf who had the confidence to start a factory from scratch and persuade the locals to grow flax for his enterprise.
He was a strong character who taunted people but also understood how to deal with them and the local peasants followed him happily.
One son becomes an intellectual and joins the socialists in the city, one is still a Tsarist but is impatient with his father's resistance to change and the third is sympatheitc to the rise of the workers.
Gorky chronicles the short-lived reign of a newly liberated family of household serfs as provincial bourgeois and the social and moral decline they undergo over three generations.
It is punctuated by three murders: the first, an undepicted murder by Artamonov Sr. of a factory hand, the second when Peter Artamonov brutally murders his son’s childhood friend with delusions of protecting him from bad influence, and the third an abortive murder borne of paranoia that is completed in reverse when Yakov Artamonov is killed randomly on a train fleeing Dromov.
The bulk of the novel revolves around the absolute moral decay of Peter Artomonov, the eldest son, as he drifts into alcoholism, infidelity and misanthropy over the course of the factory amassing wealth.
After the peasants are freed, Artamanov Sr moves to a new town and starts a linen factory.
Then the grandkids become involved in the business and have kids of their own.This is, of course, all going on in the late 1800s/early 1900s.
And their lives are somewhat decadent, with lots of food and alcohol, traveling to Moscow and back, and marrying daughters off to other wealthy merchants so they leave the town.
The factory runs itself, they just take, while the townspeople pour their lives into working for them.
Some of the Artamanovs worry about the peasant uprisings and talk, but most just go about their business.
A story of Russia told through the family saga of the Artamonov covers the time period of Russia industrial revolution to it's conclusion in the Bolshevik Revolution.
Ilia Artamonov barges into the town, interrupting life as it was formerly lived by the citizens.
The story takes us through to the third generation and as may be the norm, the business deteriorates as we get further from it's origins.
We all live merely to work; work overshadows everybody." page 95.
"he (Peter) saw with astonishment that his son by some miracle had become his match, either by rising to a grown-up in authority, or else by reducing a grown-up to his own level." page 129Rating 3.57
Aleksandr 1861 yılında serfliği kaldırır ve özgürleşen köylüler şehirde iş kurmaya başlar.
İlya artamanov belediye başkanının evine gider ve başkandan kızını oğluna (pyotr'a) vermesini ister.
Belediye başkanı ister istemez kızını (natalya) vermek zorunda kalır.
Belediye başkanı bir zaman sonra ölür.
Düğün vefatın üzerinden bir zaman sonra olur.
Fabrika büyümeye devam etmektedir.İlya artamanov dünürü ulya baymakova ile yasak ilişki yaşar.
Bir süre sonra ilya artamanov da ölür.
İş pyotr'a ve aleksey'e kalır.
Kitap sanki yarım kalmış gibi geldi bana.
Genç devrimci ilya artamanov'a ne oldu merak ediyorum.
2015 yılında yazarın mujik adlı kitabını okumuştum o da bende yarım kalmışlık hissini uyandırmıştı.
Большая книга требует приложения больших усилий для её написания, если автор не является графоманом. Горького не обвинишь в желании писать ради необходимости ежедневно создавать определённое количество печатных знаков. Ему потребовалось два десятка лет, чтобы создать новое крупное произведение. Но о чём оно должно было быть? Писать о новой жизни не так легко, ибо непонятно, к чему она вела советское государство. А вот вспомнить о прошлом было легко, особенно в связи с наконец-то победившей революцией. Требовалось показать, как существовали люди, дожив до отречения царя.(c) Trounin
İlya Artamonov, prensin yanında çalışan bir uşak iken, yıllarca sadakatle çalışmasının sonucunda keten fabrikası kurabilecek parayla yanından ayrıldı. İşini çocuklarına emanet etmişti. Kamburuyla yaşamak zorunda olan oğlu Nikita, işlerle uğraşmak yerine -tanrı inancından yoksun olmasına rağmen- manastıra sığınmıştı. Diğer çocukları işi yürütmeye çalışsalar da kaybettikleri şey özgürlükleri olmuştu. Çar devrilmiş, işçiler kazanmıştı."Nikita, ama belleği ona hüzünlü bir atasözünü fısıldıyordu: 'Sevmeden yaşamak acıdır, seversen de iki kat acıdır.'"
At the beginning I really liked it, but after the father was gone, everything seemed to have "fallen to pieces." It became more tedious to me, the story revolved mostly around the oldest son, and I was hoping to hear more about the rest of the family. Overall, not a bad book, and I would like to read more of Gorky.
Ne yaşadıklarının ötesinde, Artamonov'ların içinde olup, bebekliklerini, çocukluklarını bildiğin bu insanların, büyüdüklerine, yaşlandıklarına ve ölümlerine şahit olmak gibi bir duygusal derinlik. Gorki' nin karakter yaratmaktaki dehası cabası
An interesting family saga set in Russian which follows 3 generations of the same family as they make and lose their fortune in the changing political landscape.I enjoyed this story despite not liking any of the characters which is a rare thing for me.
Der er en del personer, og det har jeg ofte svært ved at holde rede på, således også her.
Der er også en del, som sandsynligvis er lidt indforstået.
Men den slags elsker jeg, når det er godt, for ofte ligger netop mange af forfatterens og tidens fordomme gemt lige her, hvilket jeg som antropolog er ret interesseret i.
Det er skrevet efter revolutionen, men stopper netop som den går rigtigt i gang.
I øvrigt det samme valg, som Mel Gibson tager i den der appokalyptiske film om indianerne.
The beginnings and growth of a bourgeois class is told by a short-sighted artist whose provides the following description of workers:"Everyone lives for work, but whether men live for anything beyond their work we can't see." That this short-sightedness would contribute to the success of the Bolsheviks can be seen in the author's long association with Lenin.
In spite of this the novel is a good picture of Russia before the coming of the Soviet, as long as you maintain the healthy skepticism of an intelligent reader.
I would give it 3.5 if I could. The book is about the birth and the malady of the Russian bourgeoisie in the beginning of the 20-th century on the example of one family. This might actually sound distant and irrelevant but the story is written in an engaging style. Classical realism. And besides, you can find a lot of similarities between the personal and social problems and themes of the era and our modern times.
Also known as: The Artamonov Business
خیلی قدیم خوندمش در واقع جزء اولین کتابایی بود که خوندمفقط یادمه همون موقع بهش 5 تا ستاره دادمکاش فرصت بشه دوباره بخونمش
