https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8282.The_Long_Winter
This place is a double Hell Hole, compared to Plum Creek and its crickets. No amount of Pa's fiddle-playing can compensate for the fact that they all almost died of hunger and cold during this winter. Remind me again, what was so bad about Big Woods in book one?
As I read, I could hear the wind howling outside, and the harsh winter of 1880-81 didn't seem like that long ago.Book six in the Little House series tells how the Ingalls family survived numerous blizzards while homesteading near De Smet, South Dakota.
(While reading this, I remembered that the closest thing we currently have to scarcity in winter is when the local store runs out of bread and milk for a day because of a panic over snow.)Like the others in the series, this book has good reminders about just how hard homesteading was.
Gah, I love the Little House books, and none more than The Long Winter, the 6th in the series.Although all of Laura Ingalls' books have a cozy, homey charm, The Long Winter brings with it a gritier, more menacing realism of what life would actually have been like for the American pioneer.
Since it is a children's book, Laura keeps the threat light, but make no mistake, the threat of starvation is a serious and ever present danger to not only the Ingalls family, but all the residents of De Smet, SD in that winter of continual blizzards.This is the time when you can really see the strength of the family Ingalls.
I would have died ten times over if I lived during Laura's timeThe whole family moves into town to weather the winter of 1800-1801 - and it's good thing they do.
Their fuel runs out, their food consists of scraps, and Pa can no longer play the fiddle for his hands are stiff with cold.Even in her toughest year, faced with bitter cold and starvation, Laura still conveys the beauty of the prairie.
(The first time since Farmer Boy.) Laura (in the story) admires him first for his horses, then for his kindness and then for his bravery as he hitches up his team of horses to make a run for fuel for the entire town.
The Long Review Again, I get literal chills reading even just the beginning of this book – how high and fast the geese fly, knowing instinctively the freakishly hard winter that lies ahead, how the whole country lies empty of wildlife long before usual, the muskrats asleep deep in their thick mud house.I actually think that I learned everything I know about foreshadowing from The Long Winter (and probably everything I know about cold and hunger). The novel’s leisurely, foreboding set-up – the he
The novel’s leisurely, foreboding set-up – the heat of the haying, the meagre harvest, the muskrats’ deep building and the wild birds instinctive flight – then the old Native American stranger warning that he’s seen this before – Almanzo’s first appearance, casually offering directions when Carrie and Laura are lost in the Big Slough – blissfully unaware, as he lazes in the sun, how fiercely he’ll be tested and proven by deathly cold and those same long grasses at the climax of the novel, when he risks his life to feed the town.
She's got the patience of an Ingalls.Eleanor: I've been thinking about my favorite part.Dad: And did you come up with one?E: YEAH!D: What is it?E: My favorite part was when they made hay while the sun shines.D: Why was that your favorite part?E: Because it was before the winter, and it was so nice and warm outside the claim shanty, and they didn't move into the town yet, and it was just so warm in their house.D: So you didn't like the winter then?E: No. It was too cold.
While this is not the most compelling Little House book it is a very important part of the story. I cannot imagine a bettercharacter building book. To live with the Ingalls through the long winter puts much of life's little frustrations in perspective. When Laura says, "For shame, Grace," after months and months of suffering, and little Grace utters the first and last complaint of the whole book, belies our own time and culture. No, it is not compelling to be confronted with one's own weaknesses, but this book is a vividly drawn picture of a life lived with gratefulness.
Es ist nun mittlerweile das sechste Buch aus der Reihe von Laura Ingalls Wilder, das ich gelesen habe und in meinen Augen ist es das bislang eindrucksvollste.Wilder berichtet in diesem Teil von einem sieben Monate anhaltenden Winter, in dem Blizzards auf dem Tagesprogramm stehen, die Ortschaften voneinander abschneiden und dadurch die Versorgungslage vieler Familien lebensgefährlich bedrohen.Sie berichtet anschaulich von der Eintönigkeit der Tage, eingeschlossen in den Wohnräumen; der eisigen Kälte als das Feuerholz ausgeht; der mühseligen Arbeit, Heu zu Stöcken zu drehen, um damit den Ofen zu heizen; der Angst um den Vater, der jeden Tag aus der Stadt zu ihrer Hütte und den Ställen fährt, um mehr Heu einzufahren; und schließlich der Sorge über das Mehl, das allmählich zur Neige geht.Die Räume waren ständig kalt und dunkel, da sie auch an Licht sparen mussten.
4 starsThis book is a great adventure! Though I didn’t appreciate a few word choices, the story was great and interesting and kept me hooked. This was a staple of my childhood, and it was great fun to revisit it now that I’m grown.
Ok, this book officially scared the holy bejesus out of me!
I hate winter!!!
Absolutely abhor it.
Holy Christ!
Wheat bread and potatoes with tea were the rations.
I can currently claim multigrain bread and tons of tea as staples in my apartment, not much else.
I'm thinking I should start storing some provisions-like ramen noodles and canned tomato soup.
Please God never ever let me live through a winter like this.
I don't think I can have the perseverance and presence of mind these pioneers had, if for no other reason than I can't stand freezing to death.
This is not a series I can be subjective about - it is way too much a part of my childhood. And this particular book was one of my favorites. It has been cold here this week, but not nearly as cold as it was in the book, and I'm SO glad to have a heater and food! I love this story and the all of the endurance and ingenuity shown over the Long Winter.
Title tells the entire plot.
But I have to tell you: nothing and nobody and not any amount of money could convince me to travel back in time to trade lives with Laura Ingalls Wilder..
After reading this book, I’m thankful for so many things.
I’m thankful for a well insulated house and a reliable furnace, and for a fire place and an unlimited amount of firewood should the power fail.
I’m thankful for nonperishable food, for processed foods in cans and boxes and bags, even if I hope the day never comes when they’re all we have to eat.
I’m thankful for grocery stores.
Honestly, I’m just thankful.
Remarkable how Laura is able to write a captivating, moving novel essentially about being housebound for six months during a long, harsh winter of blizzards.
How vividly I remember, even from my childhood when my mom read this to me, how Laura had to twist hay into “logs” to burn day in and day out, while Ma and the other girls huddled around the meager warmth of the stove, someone turning the coffee grinder every moment to produce the wee bit of flour from the seed wheat so that they did not completely starve.
Ever since I first read this series at the age of 9 or so, THIS one stuck out in my memory as a favorite.
The Long Winter was indeed that, with 7 months of blizzards nearly freezing and starving the Ingalls family to death.
As a kid, I liked it for the adventure of it all, as an adult I like it for the sense of realism- they actually nearly died!
Starving, eating crushed up wheat, burning sticks of horse's hay to live, it gives one a sense of how hard live truly could be during those times.
This is by far, my favorite of the series, with good reason, I think!
নাহ!! লিটল হাউজ সিরিজ এর বই গুলা পড়ে আসলেই মাঝে মাঝে মনে হয়, তখন যদি জনমাতাম তাহলে ভালোই হত কিনতু। মানুষের লাইফ এ কতটা জটিলতা কম ছিল। আবারো লেখিকার লেখার হাতের পরশংসা করতে বাধয হচছি। :) এইবারের কাহিনী তে লরারা একেবারে পাকাপোকত ভাবে হোমসটেড খুজে পায় ডাকোটায়। ছুটাছুটি আর না ।কিনতু নতুন জায়গায় এসেই ভয়াবহ শীতে বিপরযসত পুরো পরিবার । পরিবারের মানুষেরা যে একে অপরের পরতি কতটা দায়িতবশীল হতে পারে এই বই তার উদাহরণ। আর আলমানযো এর কাহিনীও আছে বইতে, বড় হয়ে গেসে বযাটা। রিতীমত হীরো!!! :p  কেউ যদি রিডিং বলক এ ভু

The family is finally done with this book, listening to Cherry Jones read it as we traveled over-the-rive-and-through-the-woods-to Grandmother's-house-we-go and over a few meals, even, and it was not always fun, sometimes tense, but on the whole it was good, as usual.
This one is mostly blizzards and near starvation from the South Dakota winter.
If some of the volumes are a little sugar-coated (by that eternally optimistic, always-look-on-the-bright-side-of-life-mother, this one focused on the border of long winters, the hard physical labor of grinding wheat into grain and the desperation to survive.
:D With all the blizzards and the family being stuck inside for the majority of the book, the story could have easily gotten boring or repetitive, but as always the author kept things interesting even if it isn't as lighthearted as it once was.
There is some peril through much of the book related to the blizzards and the Ingalls family (and the whole town) worrying that they might not last the winter, but no one dies.Sexual: Laura is a teenager now and it's briefly hinted that an older boy might like her, but nothing untoward ever happens.
Wow. Some free advice from Uncle Matt - don't choose The Long Winter as a read along with your toddler while at the same time reading Oryx and Crake.
Now that the Ingalls family is part of a newly formed town, The Long Winter explores the balance between the individual and the common good.
Is there a place for individual heroism in the public/common sphere?
Whatever the case may be, LIW shows that individual generosity and gumption play essential roles in determining the common good.Yet another thought-provoking read along from LIW.
Good stuff throughout this series!
I read this first when I was young, and a few years ago started a practice of re-reading it every winter, whenever I start to feel sorry for myself because it's so cold and dark. Re-reading it as an adult, I'm impressed by how cheerful they remained in the face of tremendous adversity. I love her storytelling, which is so simple on the surface, but really complex enough to entertain both children and adults. I agree with one of Kim Stanley Robinson's characters in the Science in the Capitol series, who suggested this might be the great American novel.
This story can get depressing since there is so much cold darkness and disaster and privation. But man triumphs over nature, and I love how the Ingalls family support and encourage one another even in the difficult times. A wonderful story, beautifully written and very compelling!
Good reading for a summer heat wave.
Great tension in this installment. It feels less episodic than many of the other books. The horribly long winter and fear of starvation really pulls it all together.
Review #1 - The Little House series was so popular in my school in 1975 that after I’d finished Little House on the Prairie, the only book available in my school library was the sixth in the series, The Long Winter.
I do remember the Wilder boys, and of course, the main theme – the big blizzard that kept everyone stranded for months.When that kid in my class said, “It’s called The Long Winter because it’s a long book,” I took it as him making fun of my stupidity.
When Charles notices that the muskrats have built an exceptionally sturdy home for the winter with very thick walls he points out to Laura that animals know things through the environment that we humans no longer recognize.
"With a couple of days of clear weather and a snowfall to hold up the sled, he ought to be able to make it all ri...""No!" said Ma.Pa looked at her, startled.
She was quiet but she was terrible.Quietly she told Pa, "I say, No. You don't take such a chance.""Why...Caroline!" Pa said.
This book (with its siblings) is the bedrock of my reading life.
I started reading the print book, but the audiobook jumped into my hands when I visited the children's audiobook section in our public library.
At first I was put off by the reader's voice: raspy and low, like the gravelly tones of a lifetime smoker.
That love for all things Scottish, it just occurred to me, probably started with Charles and Caroline Ingalls and the several references to Scottish glory and ingenuity.I'm eager now to revisit the series in their audio form.
My mum used to say that this was the most boring book of the lot.
I realize it's quite repetitious, but you get to follow an entire town during a difficult time, and get lots of survival tips for a situation like that.
It's the only book not told solely from one person's POV which I think was a good choice as there would otherwise have been far too much telling and not enough showing.Reread in January 2010: It's been insanely cold for an insanely long period of time (after Danish standards anyway), so I figured it was quite appropriate to reread this now.
Full review @ Smoke & Mirrors: http://books-n-music.blogspot.com/201.... Unbelievable how close they all came to starving! Oh, my! Twisting hay for fuel and using ab itty-bitty grinder to coarsely grind wheat for brown bread, which they lived on for months! Crazy blizzards, one right after another. This had more suspense, what with Cap and Almanzo on their "wheat expedition"!
เลมนีลุนเหนือยทีสุดตังแตอานมาฤดูหนาวทีวายาวนานนี นานจริงๆและครอบครัวนีกทรหดจริงๆเราคิดวาผานความพีคทีสุดมาแลวหลังจากนีคงนับวันดีขึน ดีขึน เนอะ ..(แคอานยังแทบแยเลย พวกเขาผานมันมาดวยชีวิตจริงๆ นีสุดยอดมากเลยอะ)
เล่มนี้ลุ้นเหนื่อยที่สุดตั้งแต่อ่านมาฤดูหนาวที่ว่ายาวนานนี้ นานจริงๆและครอบครัวนี้ก็ทรหดจริงๆเราคิดว่าผ่านความพีคที่สุดมาแล้วหลังจากนี้คงนับวันดีขึ้น ดีขึ้น เนอะ ..(แค่อ่านยังแทบแย่เลย พวกเขาผ่านมันมาด้วยชีวิตจริงๆ นี่สุดยอดมากเลยอ่ะ)
This was my favorite of the “Little House” books so far. I found the story of survival during such a horrendous winter so fascinating. The Ingalls family complained so little that sometimes it was hard to tell just how difficult things actually were. But it also is refreshing to see a family going through such a terrible trial and doing the best they could to stay positive and not fall into despair.
