https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/38315.Fooled_by_Randomness
And it gets worse – like that quote from Oscar Wilde that has tormented me for years: “Work is the refuge of people who have nothing better to do”, this guy reckons that if you work for more than an hour or so per day you are probably too stupid to know (or deserve) any better.Do you hate him yet?
Taleb tends to prefer to associate with Russian Physicists, not just because they think like him, but also because they can give him lessons in chess and teach him to play piano.
The modern world regards business cycles much as the ancient Egyptians regarded the overflowing of the Nile. The phenomenon recurs at intervals, it is of great importance to everyone, and natural causes of it are not in sight.~ John Bates Clark, 1898  Yeah, right!~ Nassim Nicholas Taleb, 2001
And yes, people are regularly fooled into thinking luck is skill.
If you’re like Taleb, though, and see only holes, what you’re left with is nothing.
It’s like he figures his ability to recognize himself as a fool puts him on a higher plane.
(In actuality, he buys stock options, but the insurance metaphor illustrates the point.) The problem is he’s so firm in his belief that the insurance companies have underestimated risks that he thinks all premiums are too low.
However, those selling options, armed with models that account for rare events appropriately, will charge more than enough to cover those risks.Who will be fortune’s fool?
devoid of the smallest bit of practical intelligence" p 30The author likes the word 'devoid'."I was saved from the conversation of MBAs." "but i could not conceal my disrespect ...
is merely to sound smart and intelligent to the hordes" p 35He could have enlightened us about financial trading by giving us examples of how traders think on specific trades.
Nor does he explain winner thinking for that matter; except for the generality of praising caution.I stopped reading this book because the probability of finding anything enightening was approaching zero as the pages I read increased.
In the same way in the markets, or more generally in any activity, you can't calculate the risk or probability of an event if it's never happened - or as in the case of a black swan, if you can't even conceive of the very possibility of the event, the kind of things famously described by Donald Rumsfeld as the 'unknown unknowns'.Reading one gets the impression that Taleb is modestly impressed by his own brilliance, one could well believe that he talks about himself in the third person like Caesar in Asterix, and that he is something of what might be technically described as an arsehole.Borrow don't buy.
But being a janitor provides an individual with an opportunity set, with, say a 1% chance of having a high standard of living and a 99% chance of having a low standard living.
The dentist opportunity set may be 95% for high standard of living and 5% for low standard of living.
But if there are many more janitors than dentists and you live in an upscale neighborhood (where you only see the survivors), that relationship becomes muddled.Anyway, if you believe the preceding ideas, the book doesn't offer much else.
I expected to get an entertaining and informative investment professional's take on how our irrational tendencies keep us from applying basic probabilities that would help us make better decisions.Instead, this book read like a pretentious, ranting diary.
There are several good anecdotes that illustrate how we ignore rational information and simple probabilities in daily life.
This would have been fun to read about without the author's smug self-absorption and his personal attacks (the author takes at least four pages to rant about the "incompetence" of journalist George Will and even takes a few punches at Warren Buffett...
I mean Warren Buffett?).
This book is a lot of painful reading for little reward, as there was nothing truly remarkable or revelatory about Taleb's insights.
Part II would have been pretty good if I hadn't read a lot of other books on the topics, and for those who are interested in economic markets, I think this would interest you if you can move past the constant interjections of Taleb's personal philosophy.
Personally, my eyes glaze over when I read about trading, and I much prefer books like The Drunkard's Walk, which illustrates many of the same (but also many more) concepts.
Don't Be FooledThe author is a Legend in his Own Mind, and he reminds the reader of his brilliance every few pages.I'd rather have a waxen image of me stuck repeatedly in my tiny black eyes with voodoo pins than read another book by this man.
Fooled by Randomness is one of that select group of books that changes your mind entirely.
Taleb talks about the various ways we fool ourselves and why we cannot help but be wrong much of the time.
He branches out from probability and mathematics to explain why our minds work as they do and what the recent psychological and neuroscientific studies as well as evolutionary psychology have to say about how we think and why we are so easily fooled by randomness.
According to Taleb, even people like MBAs and economists with some statistical training fail to understand this point.
Think of a trader who focuses on event B, sure, he is likely to bleed slowly for long periods of time, but when the rare event happens the payoff is astronomical compared to the losses.
In other words, money is only valuable if you use it as a tool to extract enjoyment from life.If it isn’t clear, I think he is making reference to the likes of Warren Buffett, whom people tend to see as being virtuous simply for the fact that he has been able to accumulate hordes of money.
For example, he goes into detail describing the work of Karl Popper, a philosopher who was interested in the question "how do you tell the difference between science and non-science?" Popper proposed several theories of science to answer this question.The first, naive falsificationism, essentially states two things: firstly, that a theory is scientific if it can be falsified; and secondly, that a theory which has been falsified should no longer be used.The second, sophisticated falsificationism, was a response to both the negativity of naive falsificationism and also a response to the criticism that science doesn't work that way (by immediately discarding theories the moment they contradict any evidence).
Before I can truly judge this book, however, I do think I need to read it a second time.
Taleb always has sharp provocative ideas, but they do need to be reflected on and digested.
Since this is the third book I've read of his and since I've read them in reverse order, I probably don't need a thorough second reading.
Another key lesson: survivorship bias...we consider rich people successful; however, we do not see the people did the exact same things (took enormous risks) and blew up as a result.
Based on their work and that of a host of other researchers in behavioral economics/finance, he catalogs many of the systematic biases that strongly affect our behavior, such as:o	Hindsight bias: We fit the explanation to the events after the fact, as if we knew it at the time.
That's not the kind of perspective that makes you see the world as a highly deterministic place, or one where, if you hope to survive long enough to get a few gray hairs, you can think of yourself as a "master of the universe" or even captain of your ship.

At times the logic and flow is so jumpy and flawed that I thought there was something wrong with my copy.There is something wrong almost constantly, but the biggest WTF moment came for me, when Taleb, who constantly reminds the reader that everybody else is a fool and it's just him who has insight and the tools to master probability, talks about scientific study of medication and the absence-of-evidence-cliché.
But no, it is not at all likely that that effect will be very relevant, as its size must be tiny or the original study methodically flawed (as otherwise it would have found it).To reiterate, Taleb does not distinguish between significance and effect size in an argument where he calls everyone else a fool for not getting probabilities right.
I've resisted reading Taleb for reasons he might approve of.
I've finally read this book because a friend whose insights I give some weight to respects Taleb's ideas.
Taleb draws on philosophy, mathematics, psychiatry and personal experience and a lifetime of observing a field particularly prone to being tossed on the tides of randomness to cut away many of the assumptions and avowed certainties that are bandied about in business circles.
What makes this interesting to me is that Taleb's ideas are relevant beyond the world of trading.
Deep.
Но, основното е, че ако в крайна сметка нямаше хора, нямаше да има и случайности, тъй като нещата просто щяха да си се случват и никой нямаше да им търси сметка.Случайността разбира се, има своето значение в развитието на хората и обществото - в смисъл, че процесът на това развитие не се случва в конкретните рамки, в които са мислили, че ще стане (даже ако някой човек се обърне и погледне назад в живота си, ще установи, че едва ли преди 20 г.
And thus people get fooled by randomness and create theories of success.
The author having spent big part of his life in finance market, gives 100s of examples to prove his theory, but alas all in stock market and finance.
The lucky fool might have benefited from some luck in life; over the longer run he would slowly converge to the state of a less-lucky idiot.

Leggete qualche paginetta di questo saggio prima di incontrare il vostro "consulente per gli investimenti" della Banca, persona i cui successi sono con certezza quasi assoluta figli della sorte (d'altronde, come diceva l'immarcescibile Kant, "quando il cul con la ragion contrasta, vince il cul la ragion non basta").Pezzo che aggiungo al quadro che mi sto facendo su quanto di scientifico c'è in economia teorica.
Quadro sconcertante e sconfortante a cui aspetto di aggiungere il tassello di Kahnemann.
This book is written by a person who is both a thinker and a doer, a combination that should be strived for by everyone.
Taleb is a successful trader who has read poetry, history, psychology and many other subjects quite extensively.
The result is a book on how randomness guides our lives much more than we want to beliveThe humble message is that we are all fooled by randomness, but few of us know it.
When you are in a market, or some other experience where there are lots of repeated throws of the dice, the rare odd will happen, which is often when you hear of a trader 'blowing up'.
In basic logical terms, the absence of B within a data set not proven to be the entire sum does not equal 'always A'.So this 'Black Swan', the one throw out of 100 can and does happen.
I love this book.
It's like a course in critical thinking and the use of the scientific method to make important decisions instead of falling into a number of errors of logic that seem to be the defaults for the human mind throughout history.
I wish this book had existed, and I'd read it, when I was in high school, and if I had the power to do so, I'd make it a required course there now.
Of course, that would never fly, given that it would equip people to see through the nonsense foisted on us by politicians, pundits, and advertisers.
What is hidden, and which causes the deception, are facts like: MILLIONS as sick as the young man, who drank more holy water than him and prayed even more and visited more holy sites were not healed and had died on schedule; MILLIONS who did what Jack Ma had done and followed what he reveals now as secrets to success, achieved no such success and remained poor or middle class; evil leaders had won elections fair and square, slaughtered millions and caused a lot of sufferings which one can hardly attribute to divine providence; terminally ill agnostics and atheists occasionally enjoying spontaneous healing without praying, drinking miraculous water or going into religious pilgrimages.
«Одураченные случайностью» — это рассуждения Нассима Талеба о причинах и следствиях тех или иных событий. Читать ее легко, хотя местами можно поплыть, если не знаешь финансовых рынков, т. к. автор часто приводит примеры из своей практики трейдера на таких рынках.Самый интересный и наглядный пример того, что люди заблуждаются относительно причинности событий или последствий совершения каких-либо действий — в кусочке ниже. «Когда я возвращаюсь домой из азиатской или европейской поездки, временной
Эти люди были бы одинаково вылечены, выпив стакан ключевой воды из штата Вермонт или жуя высушенную говядину, как это они делали с красиво обернутыми пилюлями.
Астроном Карл Саган, преданный поборник научного мышления и одержимый враг не-науки, исследовал излечения от рака, которые произошли после посещения местечка Лурд, во Франции, где люди лечились простым контактом со святыми водами и выяснил интересный факт, что из совокупного числа раковых пациентов, посетивших это место, процент излечившихся был ниже, чем статистическая доля спонтанных ремиссий.
Он был ниже, чем среднее число выздоровлений среди тех, кто не ездил в Лурд!
This problem is as old as Solon at least, who already warned against the human tendency to infer from little empirical evidence rules and predictions expected to apply in general context, especially in the future.
Popper had embodied Solon's call also in politics and socioeconomics with his vision of the open society, where tolerance of alternative or even competitive views is fundamental to avoid errors and be able to face sudden changes.
Taleb is probably an idiosyncratic taste, or maybe I just wish that I am able to grasp his theories when others "less competent" aren't able to, but I sure will go read his other books.
Fortunately, for me, I heard this book over the course of a fortnight while travelling to work and his repetitive forays into breached topics helped me to keep track of the central conceit of his thesis- that of developing an honest skepticism and correlating it with our experience against the handed-down 'wisdom' from an authoritative voice.
The author’s most famous exclamation is that the 40 years of investment success experienced by Warren Buffett, "may be by chance." He claims that with the number of investors, it was a statistical certainty that one would obtain Buffett’s success.Obviously, life is full of random events.
However, most observant people are able to notice traits that are common to typical people: whether it is successful investors or professional basketball players.
People who experience sustained success usually have certain traits (as King Solomon noted over 3,000 years ago.
