https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/164452.The_Practice_of_Everyday_Life
I teach this sucker, so there's gotta be some good in it, right?
Oh, but it's beastly dense in classic French post-structuralist fashion.
Also note the length and meander of the previous sentence is EASY READING compared to what awaits whoever picks this up.
Expect to work to get the point, and be prepared to wonder if the point is really so profound as to be worth so much struggle.
In essence, de Certeau wants people to embrace a practice-based way of looking at the world.
He sees an emphasis on analyzing users' practices as a way to grant them agency and power that the traditional production-consumption model presumes nonexistent.
He shows how this might look in the investigation of such "everyday practices" as walking in the city and reading, allowing metaphors of space and time to stand in for any attempts at generalizability.
In this way, de Certeau is wildly successful at granting his subjects agency without, as he warns, allowing the particularities of their practices to become metonyms for all of existence.
If the goal is to make the place/space distinction, I'm left to consider the purpose of the dizzying turgidity of the prose.
Smuggling this insight into the realm of engineering yields the builder as the manipulator of pure space, and the architect-city planner as the master of place.
Both perspectives must be considered in creating a dwelling-place-space for humans: but what is left out of the discussion is the fragmentation and organic swelling of the city from the inside: the simultaneous independent builders whose summative actions are constitutive, but who have no access to the view from nowhere, let alone that of the 110th floor.
Way too wordy, dense, and heady, but full of wonderful ideas that assume the agency and capability of regular people. We aren't just consumers! We are doing things! The world is terrible, but every day we are resisting in really small ways. Isn't that great to hear?
I echo some of the previous readers' comments about the density and difficulty of De Certeau's sentences - I had to look up words in the dictionary 3 times in one sentence at some point, and this was at the graduate school level.
There are so many ways this idea applies to discourses of power, identity, memory and a myriad of other areas we look at in life and were challenged to look at in grad school.
I want to take another stab at the way he approached Derrida - difficult but I think it will be worth mining for ideas.
كتاب مُرهق من كتب اللغة الجديدة :) كما أُسميها مُتعب بالنسبة لغير الأكاديميين لكن فِيهِ فلسفة جيدة .
Do we need a 200-page book to examine “the practice of everyday life”?
Still, there are some interesting insights: the tiny chapter 8, “Railway Navigation and Incarceration,” could stand alone as an essay on the strange relationship to space experienced by passengers on a train, and I was surprised and delighted to find a reference to Vermont’s Shelburne Museum as an example of a place where used objects from the past evoke the “presence of absences” (21).
Chapter 7, “Walking in the City,” interests me too, but I need more examples to understand de Certeau’s application of rhetorical terms to the practice of walking.
OK, so I know this was very influential on the transition between the study of representation and production and the study of practice and use. Despite that, other than a few select chapters, I found the book borderline unreadable. I can handle Foucault, Barthes, and Baudrillard just fine, and while Deleuze/Guattari is a stretch, I can still do it. This, on the other hand, just struck me as unreadable, and largely bullshit. So I can't say I was a fan, you know?
(Cf. la perruque.)Ch 3 “Making Do”: Uses and Tactics “Ways of operating” for oneself can be located and analyzed within the activities mandated by those in power, superimposing a new space and new meaning on the received cultural forms.
[Pp 34-42 then repeat, sometimes expanded, often verbatim, the Introduction, regarding tactics.]Pt 2 Theories of the Art of PracticeCh 4 Foucault and Bourdieu  Situating TPoEL in the scholarly conversation, de Certeau first takes up Michel Foucault’s Discipline and Punish and the relation of these uses and the discourse within which they might be placed.
When I read the first paragraph of the introduction, I knew I had found a theoretical home.
Michel de Certeau's "investigation of the ways in which users--commonly assumed to be passive and guided by established rules--operate" is about freedom, resistance, access, and the art of "dwelling" in the everyday.
Reading de Certeau validated all the ways I have been teaching inductively.
Be certain to read Chapter 7 - "Walking in the City" in Part III - Spatial Practices.
I return to this text time and again for understanding about everyday life, which "invents itself by poaching in countless ways on the property of others" (xii).
Hard to understand at first, but as you keep reading it, it starts making sense. de Certeau looks at how ordinary people through their everyday practices and embodied experiences reclaim their autonomy, and resist power structures.
This is the first time I've ever read a work of theory and felt like I was hearing my own thoughts, more clearly articulated, more grounded in the literature, but expressing impressions and preoccupations that were my own. I will reread it, quote it, act on it.
Revisiting de Certeau for my diss revisions - helpful, frustrating, and thought-provoking all at once.
One of the most dense books I've ever read, contrary to a title that leads one to think of a simple meditation.
What de Certeau offers us is an analysis of practices of everyday life (i.e. walking in a city, riding a train, reading, writing, etc.) that show that these practices carry with them technologies that shape the subject.
Assuming that I am reading correctly, the argument seems to be that everyday life is itself beholden to the forces of capital and the State.
I found de Certeau's reflections on walking in New York City to be beautifully fascinating.
Sakyčiau, kad visiems, kam įdomios žmonių veiklos ir tų veiklų artikuliacijos, ir ypač tiems, kas bando apie jas rašyti ar kalbėti - labai labai rekomenduotinas tekstas.
Nieko nenusausinantis iki popierinių perskyrų, pakankamai mįslingas ir sudėtingas, ir tuo pačiu labai įtikinantis - parodantis dar vieną, visiškai netikėtą kampą, iš kurio irgi galima žiūrėti ir galvoti.
De Certeau nepriklauso ryškioms filosofijos kryptims, stambioms pagal metodus susidariusioms grupėms ir todėl neįtraukiamas į 99% apžvalginių filosofijos kursų.
O labai gaila.
Nėra nė vieno skyriaus, net nė vienos pastraipos toje knygoje, kuri būtų nuspėjama iš ankstesnio "bagažo" arba iš ankstesnių paties de Certeau perskyrų.
Every paper I've written could have been so much better (and for the life of me, they weren't bad) if I've read it only a few days before it.
In the introduction to the Hebrew edition, there is a promise that the book can change one's life.
It is one of those books.
For a change, I've read the Hebrew edition, as mentioned, and I am surely glad for that: many of the wordplays in the French original are commented on, and usually also thoroughly enough explained (and there are many wordplays.
incredibly dense but the ideas which i grasped I really did love. Weirdly predictive in a prophet-like way? Also quite hopeful in its assertion of the everyday man’s subversive tactics in the face of oppressive institutions and authority at large...
An essential piece to understand Lyon and its history (the impact of Jacquard's invention on the programming of mechanical looms and the silk industry) which leads to contemporary concepts of what Prof. Eric von Hippel calls user-driven innovation.
I wouldn't start with this one if you're new to sociology, but otherwise extremely good.
Thought-provoking, well-written response to the Frankfurt School's ideologies (and in particular, the writings of Horkheimer and Adorno)
I read it three times, making notes.
In fact, he appears rather prescient and what he says is remarkably relevant today, hyperbole of yesterday, which De Certeau has isolated so very keenly.Some of the chapters reference to other thinkers a little gratuitously and unnecessarily, I feel.
This book is, of course, only the groundwork for the later works, which I am looking forward to reading.Michel de Certeau is social theory at its best.
Anyone that desires an understanding of how society operates, ought to read this book.
Where are the great theorists today?
هذه الأجزاء لا تستحق أكثر من نجمتين في التقييم.لكن الأقسام الباقية هي بحق مذهلة وممتعة، بالذات بداية القسم الثالث (في الكلام عن المسارات في المدينة) و نهاية القسم الرابع (القراءة: اصطياد) ومرورا بكامل القسم الخامس (طرائق في الاعتقاد) و حتى الخاتمة بل لآخر جملة في الكتاب.الفكرة الإجمالية للكتاب هي أن وضع المستهلك في مقام دوني دائما ووصفه بالمتلقي والمستقبِل فقط غير صحيح.
من خلال عرض أمثلة لأنواع ممن يمكن اعتبارهم مستهلكين (القارئ مستهلك للكتاب – الموظف مستهلك بالنسبة للسلطة سواء كانت خاصة أم حكومية – الماشي مستهلك للمدينة و ما تحتويه من شوارع و مبان) يبين أن عمليات الاستهلاك هذه تحتوي قدرا فريدا من الإبداع والذي قد لا يتوقعه مصمم المنتَج (الكاتب أو صاحب النفوذ أو مصمم المدينة).
This is a book I recommended frequently to people without actually having read, given that a classmate of mine back in the Medieval Spatial Theory course had explained parts of it very persuasively.
I read most of this in the Dublin airport (side-by-side with The Last Unicorn) which might be pretty fitting when you've got a book thinking about even our interactions with space as codifiers of social behaviour.
I think it's one that I've got to go over again in smaller sections to really get to the meat of different chapters.
Retomando numerosos ejemplos y puntualizaciones teóricas (en especial foucaultianas y freudianas), nos podemos acercar un poco a conocer esas tácticas, esas artes de hacer de la gente de a pie, de los caminantes de la ciudad."Pero allí donde el aparato científico (el nuestro) llega a compartir la ilusión de los poderes con los que necesariamente se solidariza, es decir allí donde llega a suponer a las multitudes transformadas por las conquistas y las victorias de una producción expansionista, siempre es bueno recordar que a la gente no debe juzgársele idiota".
This was awesome- some of his analyses are incredibly beautiful.
Some are completely incomprehensible.
I advice following the translator's advice (from my edition at least) and reading parts 3-5 before reading 1-2.
I didn't and 1-2 were very confusing and theoretical and I had a difficult time following much, especially not knowing a ton about the context in which the book was written.
However, parts 3-5 were very enjoyable and moving to read.
Would highly recommend if you're interested in philosophy, but be ready for a very tough dense read, and make sure you have a dictionary with you the whole time.
The Practice of Everyday Life is a tribute to the ingenuity of the everyday person.
It's a set of essays, and should be read this way (he seems to contradict himself - at time a structuralist and at other time a post-structuralist).
The ordinary (the ants, the weak) cope with their circumstances by being creative and circumventing the cards they are dealt.
He believes people in everyday life don't follow scripts but they create something given the circumstances they are confronted, thus distinguishing himself from others (e.g. Goffman) who claim we're operating within scripts created by the culture.
As rewarding as it is challenging, this should be required reading for anyone in the humanities or social sciences. The Practice of Everyday Life is a turn from "producer studies" in the humanities and STS, turning the focus from authors, designers and engineers to the user. Excellent set of tools for thinking about games, "piracy," remix culture and a wide range of topics of contemporary interest.No short review can do this magesterial work justice. Read it. Just be warned, it's *very* dense and challenging.
So far - I feel like DeCerteau was a kind of a wonder - he spoke about resistance from a peculiarly Catholic/Decon. subjectivity - he self-negates by privileging the spoken word above the written life of the letter, as being the realm of voices and, in a sense, revelation.... He strikes me (without having read much Levinas) as being an almost New Testament version of Derrida's Levinas, at least..... I look forward to reading more of him!
I found it rather uneven. Sometimes de Certeau keeps himself on track and other times it seems like he's just torturing his point or engaging in flights of fancy. There's also something that feels wrong about writing about the Common Man and how he uses language in such convoluted prose that is quite difficult to decipher. The book moves from Freud and Wittgenstein to a more direct statement about texts/reading/writing.
Interessante theorie over hoe consumenten geen hersenloze schapen zijn, maar juist onbewust en actief omgaan met wat de technocratische macht hen voorschotelt. Zo schrijven we en mythuseren we de stad door shortcuts te nemen bv. Had alleen wel 80% korter kunnen zijn, had de Certeau de obligate woordspelingen en parodieën kunnen laten. Helaas, als epigoon van het Frans post-structuralisme kon de Certeau dat blijkbaar niet loslaten. Kortom: verrijkend voor doorbijters.
