https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/66935.A_Dying_Colonialism
After completing MLK's autobiography I decided to read a non-fiction work written from the other end of the spectrum of violence from where Dr. King lived.
I realized when I finished this book that The Wretched of the Earth is where I really should have started with Fanon.
One of the best parts of A Dying Colonialsm was Fanon's reference to Henri Alleg's The Question, a staggering book I read immediately following finishing Fanon's work.
That book is a must-read - especially for all of us living in the American Empire disgusted with the things our government does under the guise of "peace" and "war on terror".
A Dying Colonialism is an enquiry, both a philosophical and political polemic, on the state and meaning of conflict that engulfed Algeria in the period of the Algerian war for independence from France.
The veil’s use throughout changed meaning on both a symbolic as well as instrumental level, and its treatment here demonstrates the dynamism of the women involved as well as the FLN as a whole.An important component of Fanon’s book is that it does not emphasize the struggle and suffering of the Algerian people but instead points to their greatness of courage and strength against tremendous opposition, his confidence in their strength.
يتحدث كيف ساهمت المرأة في الثورة الجزائرية وكيف تخلت عن حجابها وضربت التقاليد عرض الحائط ليكون دورها فعالا بجانب الرجل في الكفاح ضد المستعمرالفصل الثاني بعنوان هنا صوت الجزائر ..
عن المذياع ودخوله حياة الفرد/المجتمع الجزائري أو لنقل الإعلام المسموع ودوره في تغيير العقلية الجزائريةالفصل الثالث بعنوان الأسرة الجزائرية كيف تغيرت مكانة الابن ومكانة المرأة لتحرك الثورة وتغير من وجه المجتمعالفصل الرابع بعنوان الطب والنظام الاستعماري كيف أن الجزائري لم يكن يثق بالطبيب/المستشفى لأنه جزء من النظام الكولنيالي وكيف غير من نظرته بعد العمليات الثورة الفصل الخامس الأقلية الأوروبية في الجزائر ..
أيضا عن الأقلية الأوروبية التي لم تكن ترضى الظلم الاستعماري وكانت أكثر انتماءا للأمة الجزائرية
I first read this book four years ago, what stood out to me in that read were the case studies regarding institutional racism on this read I was fascinated by his changing perspective on gender.
Unfortunately, I don't have time to do it justice here but Fanon and his writings on Black Women have a history and in A Dying Colonialism his perspective progresses to a level that mirrors contemporary intersectional writing on gender.
I had to read this book for a class I took, and it was hard to get through. I'm planning to reread it eventually and see if my aversion to it was due to it being required reading, or if it really was as bad as I thought it was.
I didnt think that after reading a book about the algerian revolution, that id want to immediately read it again. i didnt, but the accounts of people at the time, particularly how algerian women dealt with rapidly changing cultural identity, are interesting enough to want to do so.
It's Fanon... do you really give stars to Frantz Fanon?
Fanon writes on his experiences with the Algerian Revolution & the effects of oppressed people's encounter with oppression & the acts of resistance in inevitably creates in various aspects of culture while the oppression is active & transformations in the midst of revolution.
They did recognize that overall, Europe & European colonialism was obviously the enemy & needed to be done away with but they also recognized how useful a minority, however small, of people from the oppressing group that understand the problem can be & how they can help.
Fanon's account of the Algerian War of independence.
Fanon shows why the rural Algerians first rejected the radio because it was perceived as the voice of the enemy, the colonial authorities and culture, and later embraced it when it broadcast the Voice of the revolution.
In like manner Fanon argued for why Algerians first rejected and then embraced Western medicine.
Charles Geromini: "It is a year now since I have joined the Algerian Revolution.
Remembering the difficult and ambiguous contacts I had had at the outset of the Revolution, I had some fear that I might not be welcomed.
I was welcomed like any other Algerian.

Most parts of this book were fascinating. I read this book to familiarize myself with Algeria's revolutionary changes during the mid 1900s. I'm planning to read collections of essays and novels about this subject in the near future, and I wanted a little background knowledge of the struggle of the Algerian people during this time period.This book did the job, but for a relatively small book, there were a few parts I found I had to force my way through. Still, it was quite informative and very interesting for the most part.
A wonderful collection of Fanon's essays in the Algerian National Liberation Front's newspaper during the height of the anticolonial war against France. It spans the time in between Black Skin White Masks and The Wretched of the Earth. Much weaker on theory, either psychoanalytic or political, but much richer historically. A lot of direct commentary on the French left at the time, the Third World movement, and continent-wide African politics in the 50s. Very readable.
a very comprehensive book, regardless the fact that I am not in a great need of it. Loose at the very last chapter,or at least it was not that interesting to me, if we disregard that fact that Fanon was a doctor ,though I enjoyed seeing Algeria from a Western eye.
Insightful reading into the Algerian revolution in particular, and modern-day nationalism in general. Fanon, though clearly partial, does a good job of representing the cultural tensions arising with colonialism. The writing was clear and enjoyable.
Offers some understanding, or at least a framework, for understanding the rebellious movements of occupied cultures. Mostly talks about how as occupiers crusade against traditional customs, those customs become powerful symbols for rebellion.
An important historical document but one which nonetheless fails to explain how the FLN was able to smash the Algerian working class movement to atoms while citing Fanon's anti-colonialism as its ideology
Much more readable than Wretched of the Earth. Now something of a nostalgia piece to be set alongside Paolo Friere's Pedagogy of the Oppressed.
I really like how Fanon uses psychology for liberatory means. I also enjoyed the accounts from white folks who were involved in the struggle against colonialism.
This is a very interesting read. Frantz Fanon explores social and cultural practices in the context of the Algerian Revolution. Specifically, he discusses the ways in which radio broadcasts, family relations, wearing or not wearing the veil, and the practice of medicine became sites of struggle against colonialism. I was relatively uninformed about Algeria before I read this book. Now I want to know more!
i coulden't belevie the part about the releationships between the daughter and father in Algerian familly that goes until that they dont look at each other!algerian socity is muslim and muslim father dont do that to his chiledi feel like its just making bad image about Algerian socitey : )
So I finished reading A Dying Colonialism by Frantz Fanon in two sittings! An extra ordinary read and a must read for an individual who want a nuanced argument on systematic racism and sexism. I’m a fan!
“How can they fail to understand that no rebellion is ever vanquished? What can it possibly mean, to vanquish a rebellion?”
