https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/92254.Perestroika
I looked forward to this conclusion of Angels in America, anticipating that Perestroika would be the resolution of an undisputed American classic.
“Perestroika” proceeds forward from the wreckage made by the Angel’s traumatic entry at the end of “Millennium”.
But I don’t think Perestroika--as fine as it is—achieves this sort of greatness.The sequence of Perestroika’s scenes is anything but inevitable, and individual scenes sometimes end without anything approaching resolution.
(Kushner admits as much in his “Notes,” suggesting Act Five, Scene 5 can be severely truncated in performance, and Act Five, Scenes 6 and 9 cut entirely.)Still, with all its faults, this is an effective work.
The characters and the internal dynamics were more than enough.This (Angels in America as a whole) is a very gay play, and I mean that in the absolute best way.
Kushner himself is gay so this shouldn't be surprising, but it still is; because on television and in movies and even in several books, the most we see of gay people are their surfaces, very rarely do authors or creators take the time to consider gay characters not based on how they can further the plot or help the (always hetero) protagonist, but what they're like as people, how being gay affects their lives and their relationships.
There was a scene in the movie Still Alice when the maddeningly sexy Kristen Stewart reads Harper's last monologue from this play to her mother, and it tore my heart out HARD.
GOD I LOVE JEWISH WRITERS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
And GAY JEWISH WRITERS.
Because that's what Angels in America really is twenty years later: a transcript of a time when men ten years younger than I am today were dying, dropping like flies, while the Reagan administration looked the other way.Only through art, literature and in the hearts of those who still love them can those young men be remembered.

Re-read to teach it. This read, I gained a real appreciation for its structure--down to the fact that part one opens with "Hello and Good morning" and part two ends with, "Bye, now."
There are moments that feel disorienting and you legitimately need to wait until the end of the scene before you see any remote aspect of payoff.
You're presented with optional scenes that may not be used, but are still interesting to see from the standpoint of the creative process and how it can and will change at times.Even the story itself pushes our understanding where Millennium Approaches doesn't.
I can sense that there will be things that I will find new things with every time I reread it.
Six stars!!
Kushner wrote the play for 2 parts, 2 evenings — “I can’t get these people to change fast enough”, he said.
Understanding that his characters all changed by the end of the play, and why, are crucial (just) to even start digesting this monumental piece of work.
Just to start digesting.
I was in a void of reading any new materials the next two days just to replay scenes over and over in my mind.
Or if I would happen to be in NYC the next few months, I should catch the play.
The play comes to a profound end. An absent God does not mean the end of the human spirit, even if it means the end of the world. We create the hope we need by being honest with each other, and by showing love to those who need it most. I’ve read few bits of literature as profound as Prior Walter’s final blessing: “You are fabulous creatures, each and every one… More life.”
UGH this play is so smart. you know a show is good when it completely breaks you down and builds you back up again. this play genuinely changed my life
It's really too bad that we can't do fractions of stars, because I would like to note that I liked Part Two better than Angels in America, Part One: Millennium Approaches.
Oh well, now it's noted.Part Two started off, as expected, where Part One left off.
My only problem with this that I can think of right off the top of my head is the editorial structure.
The inclusion of Jewish and Mormon faiths were also particularly interesting since these aren't looked at as often, especially in the context of mid-80's New York.Overall: read this immediately after Angels in America, Part One: Millennium Approaches.
Which part of Angels in America do I like more?
So much so, in fact, that I worry about readers not familiar with Mormon/Jewish cosmologies (not to mention the nuance of 80s US politics) missing the phenomenal symbolism and word play.
At the same time, I hesitate before recommending this play.
A current resident of Provo, UT, I can think of more Jewish friends than Mormons with whom I would feel comfortable discussing Kushner's work.
And you need to resist dismissing the play just because it subverts much of what you believe.
No other play continues to amaze and inspire me the way Angels in America does.
I never find words big enough to describe my affection towards this play.PRIO: It just...
It's animate, it's what living things do.
He isn't coming back.
If He ever did come back, if He ever dared to show His face, or his Glyph or whatever in the Garden again...
how much suffering His abandonment had created, if He did come back you should sue the bastard.
Sue the bastard for walking out.
How dare He. But still.
You see them living anyway.
The progression of the characters both in Perestroika alone and in the work as a whole is just riveting.
No character is static, which kept my mind turning, trying to come to terms with each of them.
I love the reality of their emotions.
It all meshes together so well in a shower of emotions and ideologies and paradigms.
Even the use of sex as a metaphor is handled so tactfully and candidly that it didn't turn me away from the play but really emphasized the tones and themes Kushner tried to present.
A couple of my favorite lines below, although the play is so chock full, it's hard to distinguish the distinguished.
The worst thing about being sick in America, Ethel, is you are booted out of the parade.
That's America.
God splits the skin with a jagged thumbnail from throat to belly and then plunges a huge filthy hand in, he grabs hold of your bloody tubes and they slip to evade his grasp but he squeezes hard, he insists, he pulls and pulls till all your innards are yanked out and the pain!
Kushner’s epic work is inspired holy writ to me, imagining some of the most moving enactments of Law and Grace.
All who loved the movie should read through the play as well.
The play is on its surface about AIDS and 80s politics.
Jews, Mormons and Gays—three “chosen” diaspora peoples—wrestle with their good and bad angels, with the absence of God and with the challenge of political progress without utopian ends.
This play is no mere period piece, but a meditation on the human condition—all live with “the virus of time” and the challenge of negotiating law and love, grace and works.
I have to admit that I liked the first part better. I got lost in the abstract on this one. Don't get me wrong it's still pretty incredible and covers many social issues that began in the 80s but are still current today. Some of the topics include AIDS (obviously), coming out, religion, a variety of political issues, addiction and prejudice. The surreal imagery is incredible, but I feel like I'm not always smart enough to grasp what the writer was trying to say. Overall, it was a unique play that leaves a major impact.
I am also including Perestroika on my all-time-favorite and giving it four stars because it goes hand in hand with part one, they are inseparable and incredible. I do however prefer part one, which has a clearer focus on the AIDS crisis, while part two is a little too ethereal for my tastes, as well as a bit too long. Still, an incredible conclusion to one of the greatest portrayals of AIDS and gay literature ever written.
Didn't enjoy it as much as Millenium Approaches but feel like it is the more visual part of the two - I guess maybe I lost some of it from just reading it
This would have only gotten four stars, if not for the existence of Act Four, Scene 2 and the line "TALK TO HER YOURSELF, BULLWINKLE! WHAT DO I LOOK LIKE, A MARRIAGE COUNSELOR?"
No less luminous than its first part, 'Perestroika' is as radiant with redemptive notes as 'Millennium Approaches' was awash with several implosive revelations.
Reading whilst listening to Seven Swans was a bad/great idea
For my American drama class. I definitely enjoyed it but I gave it a three because I thought part one was better.
so grand, so epic, so fabulous, and so consuming.Kushner's masterpiece took a lot of patience and returned it with a great amount of satisfaction and severe uneasiness... Bravo.
You can't help but hate Louis, connect at some level with Roy despite his identification as a Republican-lawyer-Mormon who has been involved in the discrimination against homosexuals.
Prior, central to the discussion of AIDs and Religion is heartbreaking and possibly my favorite figure in this play as he deals with the shit-storm which is America and somehow comes out alive (but dying).Even if it's not something you'd traditionally read I implore you to give these plays a read as they are truly worth it.(It's also amazingly intertextual, and many of my notes are quotations from the Book of Mormon (musical)).
While “Millennium” was somewhat inconsistent, its peaks still outweighed its valleys.
It’s a challenging, scary piece.“Perestroika” maintains some of those peaks, but adds considerably more inconsistency.
It’s not really a satisfying conclusion.
And I get that maybe a play about fundamentally broken people shouldn’t have a perfect ending (and make no mistake, “Angels” doesn’t), but at the same time the ending should be satisfying and make sense with the rest of the story.
It’s definitely worth your time - the bad stuff isn’t that bad and the good stuff is legendary.
At the end of the day, “Angels” is a fundamentally conflicted piece of fiction.
From May 2016:"The world howls without; it is at this moment a very terrible world--what the first character you meet in Perestroika calls an 'inevident welter of fact, event, phenomenon, calamity.' I have been blessed with remarkable friends, colleagues, comrades, collaborators: Together we organize the world for ourselves, or at least we organize our understanding of it; we reflect it, refract it, criticize it, grieve over its savagery; and we help each other to discern, amidst the gathering dark, paths of resistance, pockets of peace, and places from whence hope may be plausibly expected.
Marx was right: The smallest divisible human unit is two people, not one; one is a fiction.
And also plays."-Tony Kushner, November 15, 1993Today I finally read Kushner's Angels in America Part 2: Perestroika.
Read both Millenium Approaches and Perestroika.
They are two parts but one unit, like the smallest divisible human unit.
I read Millennium Approaches in spring of 2014.
It was weird, coming back to the world of this play with pretty limited recollections of the first part.
But the script pulled me back in.
I always struggle with reading scripts.
It reminds me of the magic and vision of people who create theatre, who make words and characters feel more real than they do in the original version.
And I never feel like I've completely "read" a play until I've watched it.
So for me, the real standard of excellence is if reading a script made me want to watch the play.
We who love to read are greatly favoured.
Especially, with such kind of literature that grasps us emotionally and glues us to the spot.
You will quickly fall in love with this one.
A continuation of the 'Milenium Approaches'.
It was too beautiful for me to handle.
Imagination is dangerous and this book proves it.
It is well written and deeply engrossing.
The cover says everything.
I loved the story which quickly brings out a wonderful feeling of 'sadness' from its readers.
One forgets that he is living here on earth.
The politics is very interesting.
I look forward to re-reading this.
"This disease will be the end of many of us, but not nearly all, and the dead will be commemorated and will struggle on with the living, and we are not going away. We won't die secret deaths anymore."This one didn't succeed quite as well as the first part, for me. However, it was still absurd and wonderful, and I recognise that it tackles important themes, and is therefore definitely worth a read.3.5
And yet somehow, I entirely missed this second half of Angels in America, the fantastic follow-through on all of the doors opened in #1, even providing some sense of solace and compassion and, in a manner, closure - or at least paths forward through the nightmares. The afterward, in which Kushner explains how he managed to get through the writing of the second session, is quite compelling literary guidance.
