https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/68494.Perdido_Street_Station
All roads lead away from Ankh-Morpork New Crobuzon, but sometimes people walk along them the wrong way."(A stunning image of New Crobuzon from http://www.curufea.com)A word of warning: if you read only for the story and plot, this book is not for you.
What the book is really about is the city of New Crobuzon itself, and Mieville's amazing boundless imagination knows no limits when it comes to creating a living breathing creature of this surreal, phantasmagorical place.
Yagharek's story is the heart of this otherwise brutal book."I am not the earthbound garuda any more.
And Perdido Street Station is dripping with ichor grotesquely ornate nouveau-Victorian prose because that's the kind of book this is; dude clearly read a lot of H.P. Lovecraft (speaking of which, if you think this is hard to read, just try a few paragraphs of that).
As Roger Ebert likes to say, this one goes so far over the top, it circumnavigates the top and doubles back on itself.Shit (I don't mean to swear, but if you are going to read this one, you better be ready for some shit, and some shitting, and things that have recently shat [I swear, the only book with more shat than this book is [book:this book|6426609]]), how else would you have him describe New Crobuzon?
Very funny, and a really enjoyable romp.Themes like this all add to the fun, but I think I prefer a subtle homogeneous canvas which comes across as an organic whole, rather than a jarring, comic book collage where the elements make up a mismatching pastiche, and sometimes this book feels a bit like the latter.It's almost as if Mieville was trying to scrunch too many loose ideas into one world, as if he didn't use enough self-restraint.Now to move on to some of the more political aspects of the work.There is so much conflict here..
Like Peake, Mieville's characters and setting are always strange enough to seem unusually real.Some have suggested that this frivolity undermines the very serious questions and ideas he presents elsewhere, but I, for one, am glad to find him capable of reveling in joy, for Nietzsche once observed that "excess is not the result of joy, but joylessness".I compared Mieville favorably to Snowcrash, but Stephenson's other books simply cannot measure up to his first success, and it is because they are joyless.
I can only hope fantasy authors of the future will be inspired by him, and save this genre from itself and its ponderous, long-winded Old Guard.My Fantasy Book Suggestions
I feel like I've been reading this book forever.
There are also passages like this:"The glass was painted opaque.
They looked like glutinous clots dribbling down the entrails of the disemboweled airships."I mean, yes, hilarious, but imagine having to say these things out loud.Ultimately, the author (who's smug mug defaces the back cover in possibly the worst author photo I've suffered to date) seems far too obsessed with the little hodgepodge world he's thrown together, too eager to throw in every little "wouldn't it be cool if" moment he ever imagined instead of focusing on the story.
Maybe I just didn't like his writing.
there was no there there!but you know, once i felt the same way about samuel delany, about ronald firbank - and lo & behold: i now admire them both, i respond rather quickly to their bold instigations, their often sharp tongues, their secretly dreamy temperaments.
i simply haven't the energy or patience to get to know you.
and i am certain, in the end, my affection must mean little to you, Perdido...
the housekeeper will take care of the sheets and mess; please do me a kind favor and take your leave through the servants' entrance.'til the time of our sweet reunion,yours,mark monday
WARNING: This review probably contains some (but not many) spoilers, so you may not want to read this if you haven’t read Perdido Street Station yet.
Somewhere upstairs my Dad heard my bedroom door closing and yelled down, "Turn off the light." Even back then he was a stickler for energy conservation (but that had everything to do with being a cheap bastard and nothing to do with the environment).
I opened my door, closed it, flipped on the light switch and was fucking bombarded by HUNDREDS of moths.I fucking lost it.
Dick is alright in my book and promises a great story to come.
Perdido Street Station by China Mieville is to steampunk weird fiction as Neuromancer was to cyberpunk – it is the definitive benchmark.
An urbane, nightmarish fantasy, Perdido Street Station is similar to Mieville’s The City and the City; but where the later novel was Monte Python absurd, PSS is Charles Dickens’ steam punk chic, blending elements of brilliant characterization with fantastic settings and all under the umbrella of Mieville’s outrageously creative imagination.
Mieville has summoned up a fantasy world that teems with life and amazing detail.
I'm pretty sure I wouldn't have made it past the prologue, had I read the printed version.
So. Long story short: I got to chapter 8 and started feeling a teensy little bit like…My murderous troops obviously started getting very concerned about my mental health, so I decided to hit the pause button one gloriously final time, and proceeded to DNF the fish out of this most wondrous piece of literature.
➽ Full Phew Bloody Stinking Fish That Was Close This One Nearly Did Me In and Stuff Crappy Non Review (PBSFTWCTONDMIaSCNR™) to come.
After having read The City & the City I new I was in for something special, but I had no idea is was going to be anything like this.
If you want to read this, don't be faint of heart.
virago, you spit-fire..."There is no doubt, I like the main character.
That's part of what I like so much about Mieville's books.
No need to deal with them if you don't want to, but if you do, you are challenged.There was something I didn't like.
It occurs at the precise moment when the main character after struggling suddenly finds clarity and finally has a plan.
While I’m not widely read in the field of erotica and pornography, CM’s vision of this relationship really turned me on.It would take a great writer to write scenes of affection and delight that appealed to me as much as those featuring Lin and Isaac.Mothrotica Having said that, CM replicates the erotic charge in his description of the principal antagonists in the novel.The threat to New Crobuzon comes from giant slake-moths that feed on dreams.We see them transform through their life cycle from larva to pupa to adulthood, from caterpillar to cocoon to moth.During pupation, the larval structures of the moth are broken down, while the adult structures are formed.
He usually rides along his river on a half-sunk log, making loud splashes." (Wikipedia)And the khepri, a god of ancient Egyptian religions with the body of man and head of a scarabBut I guess I got lazy...I was going to compose a list of the new words I learned, but it got too long...I was going to talk about how the setting for the book was influenced by The Malacia Tapestry & Anubis Gates.
I figured I could tell you a bit about each and in what ways New Crobuzon relates, but frankly I just don't care anymore...The book went on for too long.
The point where one thing becomes another.” Mr Motley is ostensibly talking about art, daring Lin to cross her own boundaries to experience something new, even if it ends up so individualized that she can't convey it to an audience, but it applies to everything in this story.When Isaac tries to find a way to power Yag’s flight, he considers watercraft, unified field theory, Torque energy and crisis energy, all of which are about things on the cusp of transition.Many of the characters have transitions in their own bodies: some are Remade, some metamorphose, others have physiognomies with unusual boundaries.
BUT this isn’t an “and they all lived Happily Ever After” kind of book and so at the end I was left with this sad empty feeling that I didn’t like.
There are so many different kinds of creatures, peoples and interesting characters.
It is a world where things like this can happen from the magical waste in the rivers.
Some of the consequences are horrible and I was really sad that a few of them had to be paid like that along the way.☠ The Bad of It ☠It isn’t even necessarily bad.
It's practically the only trope not explored, and that's saying a damn lot.Off and on through the entire reading, I wanted to declare that this is one of the most brilliant novels ever written.
I even like Yagharek despite the shit he pulled, even if I agree with his judgement.It's a depressing end to the novel, too, so perhaps my ongoing excitement for the tale took a downturn along with the tone.Nothing it going to stop me, this time, from reading the Bas-Lag sequels.
It ends as a vastly different story than it started.
The story is so off the wall you'll never know what's coming next.
Things are discussed and never spoken of again.
It gets to the point that the interesting imagery looses its charm, and that's a shame.I do know this though, I did not care for the ending.
Like the author just couldn't come up with a fitting end.
It's like the author wanted to make you like the character, and then pull the proverbial rug out from under you for kicks.
If you really like steampunk/neoindustrial stuff you may want to read this for the imagery alone.
It’s a little hard to explain but I’ll give it a shot.The story is set in a totally made up universe in the city state of New Crobuzon.
Medical/biological technology is such that people can be “Remade” (usually as punishment) with extra limbs, or fused with machines, or let your imagination go wild.The book begins slowly, gradually introducing us to more and more weird stuff as we go.
Like the Khepri, a race of humanoid bug-like creatures – a humanoid body and a bug, as in a whole bug, for a head – that’s just the females who are sentient.
[5 Stars] What did I just read? I'm too emotionally distraught right now to write a proper review. Don't worry because I will write one in the next few days. Regardless, I loved this. It devastated me. It made me think. it is now a favorite of mine.
Mieville's using the language to draw you in to a world that is like ours, but slightly different— a dark, morbid, fantastical dystopia that's something like the dirty lovechild of Edward Gorey, Jules Verne and Charles Dickens.
It's a dirty, lowdown, steam-age-with-magic setting that is immediately recognizable and intricately defamiliarizing.In short, it's exactly what so-called "speculative" fiction should be.I don't want to spoil anything, and I'm finding it difficult to summarize this book without launching into a dissertation, so instead I'll just give you some advice:Read this book.
View the language not as an obstacle, but as part of his world's fiber (not unlike Joss Whedon's use of Chinese in Firefly).
After I came across a blog post where Mieville stated that of course Tolkien was the most important fantasy writer of all time, but that he just wanted to see some variety in the genre, I warmed to him.
The whole book is seething with a sense of an author trying to put himself above the ‘simple’ fantasy of the past, and to show off his knowledge and intelligence at every possible occasion.
Perdido Street Station gives the impression that story, setting, characters and everything else is developed for the sole purpose of letting China Mieville announce his extraordinary intelligence and creativity to the world.This of course might be as far from the actual reason as humanly possible.
There is also a Mafia don with a body composed of many conjoined ones and a spider god of sorts who travel across different dimensions on the world-web...New Crobuzon is a republic of a sort, but ruled by corrupt politicians: the city gives one the impression of a cross between Victorian London and an America ruled by extreme right-wing Republicans (Mieville, a communist, seems to be making a statement here that any society dedicated to the service of Mammon will ultimately come to this).
His protagonists are not very likeable (especially Isaac); the story moves in rather predictable fashion; and towards the end, the novel drags a bit.
(view spoiler)[The slake-moths were a wonder when they first crested on the pages, and I had to sit back and contemplate their existence in order to put my visualization parameters in order.
You have to love a creature whose sole intent is creating and maintaining a piece of art that consists of every fiber of existence, and does so via unnervingly eccentric and/or occasionally terrifying methods.
But at any rate, I also loved the fact that Miéville was much more concerned with the world and the story than any sorts of literature conventions.
The lead male character is the scientist, the lead female the artist.
The lead male is 'normal', the lead female, exotic.
The lead male emerges unscathed, the lead female suffers derangement.
The lead male is redeemed, the lead female is left....helpless.

But despite all that, I have to say that this is the most "punk" of the supposed "steampunk" novels, stories, video-games, and movies, that I've encountered.The street-level political, nay, anarchical sentiment and actions that set the city of New Crobuzon into chaotic motion, are clearly "punk" in their nature.
In total, this novel is the first that I've encountered that gives due respect to these truly "punk" notions and attitudes.And though there are several ways to try to encapsulate what Perdido Street Station *is*, I'd argue that one of the more compelling interpretations of the book is that it is, more than anything else, a Baedeker of the city of New Crobuzon, or, possibly, a Baedeker of China Mieville's brain.

Reading this book feels a bit like watching this video; like living in a place where nothing behaves as you are accustomed to, but somehow it’s all still graspable.
I mean, everything that I’ve read from him feels completely original and new…and this book in particular just has one new and original idea stacked on top of another ad infinitum.
Just as in the other two Mieville novels that I’ve read, the environment is a major character in this book.
For the most part it feels appropriate, like he’s using just the right word at the right time.
My first Goodreads review. Story: 3/5 1: Being Vague, rambling plot with no little believable storyline5: Ripping yarn. Clever, thought provoking The story is based in a sordid police state world. Where medical advancements have bizarrely evolved yet weaponry remains in the 1700's. It is a dark and dirty setting that reminded me of Neverwhere. Unfortunately Mieville needs you to completely picture this world in your head, to a degree that is utterly frustrating at first. A description of an even
But ya gotta do the hard work, you have to read the first 100 pages and build the scene.
It did leave me with lots of questions, which if your writing a series, then that's a good finish.Characters: 3/5
This was disappointing, because i really wanted to like her.Yagherek as the other main character, is alien, dark, and not a happy chappy.
I really liked the way the story ended with Yaghereks character, and it did shed light.
Some of the other characters were well done, Motley, Lemuel and the bizarre Weaver were all interesting and believable.
Why, the entire book was pretty weak and unfulfilling, so why did I hope for otherwise?
While Miéville does have some nice flowing prose (when it’s not overcoated with adverbs and adjectives), his style meanders from the story too much.
Maybe because Miéville was writing for kids, he didn’t feel the need to impress his audience.
1-star as I was forced to read all of the detail.Cheese – 1 star.
That was so wrong.Audio reading – 5-stars.
John Lee does a very lively reading.Overall rating – 1.5 stars.I could probably go to a full 2-stars, but I figure the book’s too overrated as it is.
Quedaba oculto tras un opaco telón de seda frágil, una cáscara que ocultaba la transformación con una modestia brutal, instintiva.Obra vasta, enciclopédica, dotada de una mitología abrumadora.
Si a esto le añadimos el elenco espectacular de personajes y razas que deambulan a lo largo y ancho de esta arquitectura barroca y el estilo gótico y desgarrado, arriesgado y vital, de la escritura, nos encontramos con una obra simplemente extraordinaria (en el sentido más literal del término).
Páginas y páginas plagadas de excesos y deformidades, delirios e imaginerías contundentes, compendio de mundos orgánicos e inorgánicos en el más puro estilo gráfico de H.R. Giger, escenografías apabullantes descritas con una destreza hipnótica y tortuosa.
