https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/286454.A_Prisoner_and_Yet
All I knew was that I'd been in a funk for several weeks, probably months, and was feeling pretty stuck there, and if the good Lord was going to put it on Jim Wilson's heart to offer me some of the dwindling precious resource of his time, I sure wasn't about to say no.
Today marks eight (oops), and A Prisoner and Yet was the final book.I've known and loved Corrie's story for nearly forty years, and read a pile of her books when I was in my 20s.
I cried when I read of the part when Corrie had been released and arrived back in Holland where she was treated with kindness and lovingly cared for.
To eat a good meal, take a warm bath, wear soft and clean clothes, sleep in a warm and cozy bed, enjoy colors of beauty around her, and to be around kind people again!
The statement that stood out to me after her release was, "Much work, I hoped, lay ahead of me; perhaps loneliness, too.
I would love others, and then one does not remain lonely." How true that statement is!
The only reason I did not give this book five stars is b/c it was not easy to read.
Human suffering is never easy to read about, but when it is a woman sharing about torture, death, and oppression in a concentration camp- well, it was an emotional journey.
Her courage in the face of so much sorrow and death was so uplifting- almost unrealistic- and I felt convicted by my own lack of faith.
Would I have despaired- or held onto the faith which has sustained me throughout almost my entire life?
I really liked this. It reminded me more of reading her journal--the emotions seem more immediate with each little story. Someone co-wrote "the Hiding Place" and it seems more like a novel with more context. I would recommend reading "The Hiding Place" before this one, so the reader has the context.
I read this book understanding that it told of events over the same time as The Hiding Place.
I appreciated the additional information, and it helped me understand the timeline more clearly.
It tells the story of the family and background of faith, some of which is completely absent from this book.
It also tells Betsie's story a bit more clearly.
However, reading this book helped me understand better the way Ravensbruck was portrayed in the Hiding Place movie.
I would probably read this first and then The Hiding Place.
It's like reading about the Titanic and hoping the boat doesn't sink at the end this time.
FabulousI read The Hiding Place many years ago and was captured by it. This book which I discovered by accident had the same effect. Each page reveals another challenge to us the reader and also encourages our faith. Such a special lady so devoted to her faith in the worst and best of times.
TANTE CORRIE IS ALWAYS INSPIRINGI never fail to receive a blessing reading Corrie ten Boom. Compare your struggles with what Corrie and her family endured and your struggles will seem small
I love how human Corrie Ten Boom comes across in this book as she writes about the hardships of living in a concentration camp.Yet, she overcame in so many ways and loved those around her. I wish more people would read this book.
Worthy read for all agesCorrie paints a vivid picture of her experience in concentration camps. Through it all she never gave up hope and used her time at the camps to minister to others.
I love her stories. Full of love, grace and gives an insight into forgiveness
It is amazing to me the way that can work in the lives of people, even in the worst possible situations.
Corrie recounts her time in prison and in a concentration camp, but instead of focusing on all of the pain and torment, she focuses on the things God is teaching her and the way God used her to bring joy and salvation to many.
This book is a true testament to the promise, "God works all things for his good and for the good of those who love him." Even being in a concentration camp in Nazi Germany.
God is good!
'Who shall separate us from the love of Christ?
But in all these things we overwhelmingly conquer through Him who loved us.'This is a Romans 8 book.
I love Corrie and Betsie, and was so moved during this book to hear again of God's faithfulness to them as He led them through the valley of the shadow of death.
What cruelty they witnessed, but they also shared the love of Christ in that frightening place.
And as Betsie said, 'There is no pit so deep that the love of Christ is not deeper still.' At first, I found myself in awe of Corrie...
(Also, everyone should read this book.

This must be the most cheerful concentration camp book ever written.
The author is dedicated to optimism and her Christian religion.
Some readers may find it off putting but I didn't mind the religious parts because she obviously was strengthened by her religion because through it she found meaning in her difficult experience.
Also, because she hid many Jews and got ration cards, etc -- all knowing it could mean death or the camps.
(That said, I've read that the Dutch were treated better in the camps than the Jews and the Polish.)
There's a lot of overlap with "The Hiding Place," but with more detail. It's amazing how much peace God gave Corrie and Betsie, and how much they encouraged and witnessed to others during their imprisonment, rather than dwelling so much on their own pain and discomfort. I wouldn't be so quick as Corrie to call Catholics part of the body of Christ (trusting Jesus plus anything else is not truly trusting Jesus), though I'm sure there are those who are true Christians among them. A thought-provoking, inspiring book.
Corrie ten Boom just rarely fails, when what you're after is the truth of what it's like to live as a very fallible human being under great evil, and still emerge with a bigger faith, a broader love, and a deeper trust in Jesus than ever before. This book goes through much of the same time period as "The Hiding Place", but it gives different details. Definitely check this little book out. Definitely worth it.
This was repetitive from hiding places. It was very good. Makes you very grateful for the life you have. I look up to Corrie ten Boom and her sister. They were very courageous. Corrie is someone we could live to be like. Her belief in God is amazing. No matter what she went through her belief was there. To have faith as strong as hers. I am sure she doubted at times but she persevered. They experienced some rough times and Corrie came out a changed person. I am amazed at her story.
oh! what a victorious book! nothing can ever separate us from Christ's love...a Dutch woman, taken prisoner by one of the most evil, cruel and despotic regime. Yet she maintains her faith in God and her eyes fixed on her Savior and the glory to come. She loses all of her family yet never loses hope.
When I read this book, I kind of shocked.Because at this faraway-land-faraway-time where I live, the facts about concentration camp rather blurred. Even the histories sometime marred by a bunch of crazy-conspiracy-theorists.I really admire Corrie's bravery, she's far more brave than any heroines from YA-dystopsian novels I ever read.....and she's around 50 y.o.(!) and lived in real world.
I've read several of Corrie ten Boom's books but it's been many years. This book is made up entirely of little anecdotes of her time in the concentration camp and how she found hope and steadfastness through her faith and observation of the positive actions of others. She never denies the horrors, but steadfastly looks for hope throughout. I'd recommend reading "The Hiding Place" first.
Some overlap with The Hiding Place but also has many powerful stories and lessons on its own. "O Lord, give me then Thy Holy Spirit, that I may bring this great sorrow to Thee and leave it with Thee."
Ten Boom recounts multiple experiences from her time in Ravensbruck concentration camp. Most are horrifying, but there is also kindness and decency. Most of all, the faith that sustained Corrie is demonstrated also in her beloved father and sister, who died while imprisoned.
A Prisoner and yetThis was a wonderfully written journey. I have read her life story after the camp. The way she describes the prison gives a look at the horrors but dwells on Christ's nearness through it all. Fantastic.
A book given to me by my granny. It is very religious, set during the holocaust. It was extremely interesting, and very moving. The fact that this woman, after everything she was put through still stuck to her faith an still believed God was watching over here was extraordinary.
Not very well written, probably due to translation. I enjoyed The Hiding Place, & this book elaborates on the segment from THP that she spent in prison/concentration camp. If you have the choice, read THP; and if you've read THP, skip this one.
I read this book in a first copy 1947 edition. It smells like mildew! But cool to read ten Boom's first account of her time in prison in 1945 in WWII. She had only been out for 2 years so it is fresh. She was into helping others. Good can be found anywhere.
"There is no pit deep enough that God's love is not deeper still" This is one of the best books I have ever read.
A friend told me this was a more faithful account of Corrie ten Boom's experience than The Hiding Place which had co-authors. It was certainly less polished, but somehow shone the brighter for it.
One of the most inspiring books I have ever read.
I love her testimony!
