https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16792.The_Tragical_Comedy_or_Comical_Tragedy_of_Mr_Punch
Disturbing.
The main plot, involving the human boy, seemed to have a dream-like quality with the whimsical treatment of time and scene.
However, this is not one of the happy-little-dreams.
The secondary plot involves the puppet show.
In the show, Mr. Punch is violent in the extreme - he beats his wife and baby to death, kills the copper and so on.Normally, I'd call for a different artist...yet, in this case, the art matched the plot.
It was ugly, creepy and disturbing.
Note: Despite what Mr. Punch says in the image above, the baby was not "asleep" - you can guess what Mr. Punch did to the poor thing.Not a fan of this.Blog | Instagram | Twitter
This is a tale from earlier years of Neil Gaiman's varied and illustrious career (long may it continue).This edition is from 2006 and although I am no officando of the works and wonders of Neil Gaiman but I can say that for as long as I have known of his works he has always produced something new and unique and reading this I can tell you that its new and unique to me.Now this book tells its story in a combination of hand drawn artwork, composite photographs and combinations of both.
Having met the man in person I can say that every book of his is different and yet you can see the hand of Mr Gaiman on every page and in every word
Fuck you, Gaiman.
Review to come... Once I can figure out my thoughts...
Slipping under the radar at the time, Neil Gaiman & Dave McKean collaborated on this book together.
Not quite a comic and not quite a book (it was published with odd, oversized trade binding that didn't match comics or novels, but evoked the feel of old newspapers), Mr. Punch was published to little or no fanfare, lost in a see of Vertigo Titles that have become classics among DC Fans in the years that have passed.
The really impressive part of Mr. Punch is Dave McKean's brilliant art, which began to flourish in Sandman and reaches a dizzying scale of beauty here.
Not sure what to think of this. Disturbing for sure. Loved the contrasting artwork though. Time to go rewatch DOLLS. And I may reread this eventually.
The story is told from a mature point of view, but because the narrator is recounting events that happened to him as a child, I felt that he captures a child's perspective very well.
Also, there is so much ambiguity surrounding the plot (in order to create a horror effect, I assume) that I had a hard time making out what was actually happening.
One thing I did find interesting was the way the Punch and Judy story is told in "installments"--every time the narrator talks about another time he watched the show, he reveals some more of the plot.
Examining memories of youth in adulthood often makes us remember fear and violence that we would otherwise have forgotten entirely.Our narrator recalls childhood memories of visits with his grandparents, some of which take place at the beach.
How violence and dishonestly ran through every aspect of said life, and that as a child he simply didn't quite understand.I think part of my hesitance to embrace this story is the idea of Mr. Punch himself.
I know this is a staple in British culture, but how does anyone justify the story of Mr. Punch as proper childhood entertainment?
Did I enjoy this book?
I was a little confused with the storyline, I was never sure where it was going or what was happening half the time.
I didn't feel satisfied with the ending, because I wasn't sure what happened or how it got there.
More creepiness, more violence, and perhaps more closure at the end.
It all seemed like a hazy dream/nightmare that you wake up from halfway through, not knowing what happened or why it happened, and when you try to go back to sleep to finish it off, it eludes you until it is completely gone and you're just left with the remnants of that vague dream you awoke from.That's basically how I felt about this book.

disturbing picture books with mixed media art is exactly what i want out of this life
I'm a big Neil Gaiman fan, so when I received this creepy-looking graphic novel from Bloomsbury--thanks so much!--I was curious about the story.While fishing with his grandfather, a young boy stumbles upon a creepy Punch and Judy puppet show by the seashore.
Mr Punch is a horrible character intent on beating and killing everyone he encounters during the performance, but he's still intrigued.This boy is constantly sent from one lot of grandparents to the other, and while staying because of the upcoming birth of a new sister/brother, he spends some time at his grandfather's failing arcade.
It is a really creepy symbolic story I need to think over and reread in the future.
There are lots of things to enjoy - particularly the arrangement and composition of the accompanying graphics by Dave McKean and the haunting quality of Gaiman's narrative which focuses on childhood, memories and the sinister world of adulthood.
I've given it four stars because even though I really enjoyed it, it didn't pack the same punch (if you'll pardon the pun) as some of his other graphic novels (most notably Sandman) and the only character I liked was the narrator.
Most children though like to explore and ask questions, and it is definitely these curious individuals who become adults whilst still children; whether that's a blessing or not, is anyone's guess.
It's definitely unlike anything I've seen in a graphic novel before.Full disclosure, this is the first Neil Gaiman anything that I've read.
I've actually come into contact with several works by his wife but I've never read anything he's done.
This was maybe not the best place to start as I think this may not have been the book for me.This is similar to Kingdom Come in that I understand the love for it.
At least, that's what I think the lesson is?
The writing is very memorable and unlike anything I've read before.
Neil Gaiman is now a certainty and once again i'm not disappointed.The atmosphere is one of the darkest that I've ever encountered in his work and the author draws us, through the memories of a man, in the darkest depths of his family.
At each step, secrets come to the surface, related to the components of the family, facts that the main character didn't recognize as child, but he consider now as adult.An unmissable album that I recommend to all fans of the genre and fans of Neil Gaiman in particular.
All that happened was that the boy and girl main characters were changed into Punch and Judy and had to perform for the Duchess and Duke.
Even with Gaiman explaining the Punch and Judy puppets and background/plot through a character explaining it to the main character (a boy, the narrator), I still find this book confusing.
It's nicely told from a child's perspective for the most part, and the parts where he's reflecting back as an adult is also believable, but I found it a little hard to relate Punch with his narrative as something deeper than a performance he saw in his childhood and something he sometimes ran into as an adult.
Una fiaba dark suggestiva, angosciosa ed inquietante; impreziosita dalle complesse e macabre illustrazioni di Dean McKean. Ed è proprio questa complessità, data dallo stile delle tavole e del testo, a rendere la lettura non proprio immediata. I testi sono stati curati da Neil Gaiman che ha preferito puntare su un intreccio narrativo visionario e fumoso attribuito all'incertezza del ricordo di un bambino.Dal libro:  L'infanzia è un incubo che vestiamo di fiabe.
If that recollection has an emotion attached, then we are pulled down deeper towards other memories.
The story starts with shallow memories, brief bits about his grandparents.
The traditional puppet show of Punch & Judy is retold in various forms and fragments--working like memory does in bits and pieces.
The wonderful illustrations are dark like half remembered images and many contain bits of this and that tossed together like disorganized thoughts.
PUNCH does not seem like much at first and it knows this.
This is a wonderful creation starting like a light mist until by the end it has become an emotional downpour.
(though I admit I haven't read many graphic novels and my opinion might be biased)The novel is a work of genius.You see the narrator both as a young boy and the adult he became, telling you some events of his early life and his family's history while showing you parts of Mr. Punch's puppet show.
Not quite sure what to make of this one. I almost feel like the story would have been fine has a traditional novella and the art would have been fabulous with less text to distract from it. The art is gorgeous and appropriately frightening in all the right places but you're constantly distracted from the art by great chunks of Gaiman's prose. I suppose that's not really much of a criticism in the end. It's an appropriately dark and fantastical story even considering that Punch and Judy shows are pretty dark on their own.
Disturbing. Memory is both the most painful thing and the saddest. Gaiman's words and McKean's images are perfection.
Disegni egonschileiani... (a parte i nasi da coniglio).Ogni immagine porta con séun senso di perdita, anche sela perdita è venata, non importaquanto lievemente, di sollievo.(da qualche parte nel libro)(Rilke?)Ma non devo rimuginare. Il sentiero dellamemoria non è né diritto né sicuro, e noilo percorriamo a nostro rischio. E' più facilefare brevi viaggi nel passato, ricordandoin miniatura, costruendo recite di minuscolipupazzi nella nostra testa.E' così che si fa.(da qualche parte nel libro)Ossia: dalla mano che ci guida (burattini) alla nostra mano nella quale, forse, leggiamo qualcosa.
Rounding up: Gaiman's moody, searchingly atmospheric story - easily four stars, and perhaps, on rereading, five - and a Hall-of-Fame artwork and lettering package from Dave McKean makes 4.5 rounded to five stars. At times disturbing - "Where's JUDY!" - and other times nerve-wracking, a wonderful retelling of the Punch and Judy story, with traces of its deep history. Both fellows are geniuses and the book a comics masterpiece.
The illustrations are incredible (beautiful and disturbing at the same time) and the writing, as usual, is Gaiman at his best. It's dark and unsettling, exactly what I was expecting from it. Gaiman's tale is interesting, but McKean really steals the show here, as his moody artwork dominates the book.
https://youtu.be/rh5gNlV2tBg
oh my god
Right from the get-go, the little marionette Mr. Punch doll freaked me out.Of course, for the sake of literature, I put that all aside and read the darn thing.
I liked it.Being currently in the midst of reading Gaiman’s Sandman series, I had come to know what to expect when it came to his works: darkness, mystery, suspense, intrigue, fantasy, and a great story.Mr. Punch tells the story of a young boy who was sent to stay with his grandparents at their seaside home while his mother is in the hospital giving birth to his new sibling.
The reasons behind the arcade's closure are tied up in dark family secrets, all of which are overwhelming for a young boy and still puzzling for the man as he reminisces.What makes the graphic novel stand out as something more than just a dark nostalgia piece is Dave McKean's illustrations.
McKean's work mirrors the violence of the Punch and Judy and reveals the horror inside something taken as children's entertainment.In the time since the graphic novel was first published, it has been adapted for the stage.
I nomi Gaiman e McKean, associati, dovrebbero stimolare l'acquolina a qualunque fan a prescindere.Ma quando si prende in mano un volume (libro?
