https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/92500.The_Lottery_Rose
One of my most vivid reading memories is being completely crushed by this book when I was in junior high.
I remember sitting on the floor of my bedroom and sobbing uncontrollably, grateful that I was reading it at home rather than at school.I've recommended it to many students over the years, but the book has become harder and harder to find.
When the book arrived from Amazon last night, I set about reading it almost immediately; by the end of the first page, my heart was aching again for little Georgie Burgess, and the tears were rolling by the end of the second chapter.
This book was great not just because it had many details in it, but because of the story that is being told.
A little kid being abused by his own parents and not having anyone else but her drunk mother that beat him up everyday was horrible.
Til one day his life changed drastically when he won a bush of roses in a lottery.
His life changed for good til that day.
He didn't have to stand his mother beating him anymore now he had people that loved and care for him now.
I loved this book a lot.
I read this book in the 6th grade and it has stuck with me since. It is a very sad and depressing story with many happy moments spread throughout. This was the first novel that made tears literally pour from my eyes. I even remember the day walking into class after reading the last chapter. If only people of the world would read this and realize what is actually happening it this world.
Reread this to a class of seventh graders because they wanted to read something sad. When we finished, they looked at me like "That's it?" Bunch of heartless kids.
Not her best book. It is an uncomplicated, "sweet" but unlikely story with unlikely characters and unlikely resolutions. It is a message of hope, but it drags a little. I like Irene Hunt's books but this one disappointed.
A sapy, heartbreaking, and boring book.
He is safe there and learn new experiences in his life: recieving and offering love.This book is very valuable for all the people in the society because it presents child education, reflects simple loves between people.
Consequently, parents must take care of their children carefully.The Lottery Rose is also meaningful to all the people who have a remembering childhood.
Dreams are important to all the children because they make them live in a good world.The lottery rose is all the things meaningful to Georgie since noone cares of him.
Georgie knows thinks that growing the rodes at the grave makes the boy and his mother happy.
Georgie wins a rose bush at a grocery store lottery, and becomes very close to it, but when he takes it home, Steve beats him with a chair leg and he passes out.
He gets sent to a school house in the country, and he tries to plant the rose bush in the neighbor's garden, but she catches him.
Later in the book when he wins a rose bush, he becomes really close to it, and he tries to protect it.
I would recommend to people who generally read realistic fiction.This book begins with Georgie Burgess, a young troublesome child who has an interest in gardening and flowers.
Georgie one day finds himself with a rosebush that he won at a local grocery store just like the ones in his favorite books that he loves with all his heart.
One day his parents take his beatings too far, and Georgie is placed in a hospital.
There Georgie plants his rose, and learns to love again while still making enemies, like the woman next door who wouldn't let him plant his rosebush in her garden until later in the book.
I bought it with the intention of giving it away to a specific young person, but decided to give it a quick read in case it was below her reading level or a little to "on the nose" in subject matter.
(It's about a boy who is horribly abused, almost beaten to death by his mother's boyfriend, and ultimately saved by a nun and a rosebush.) I have decided after the re-read to keep it for myself, mainly because it is just unbearably sad, but also because it tosses around the word "retarded" in a way that I'm sure was not uncommon in 1976 when the book was published, but that I wouldn't want a young person reading it today to think was acceptable.
My fourth book is called The Lottery Rose by Irene Hunt.
This book is Young adult fiction.
The story takes place in Florida, and it's about a boy named Georgie who is abused by his mother and her boyfriend.
He pushes through, and avoids his mother and her boyfriend as much as possible.
Georgie later wins a rosebush at his grocery store and takes care of it, because this is something that he's never had.
I really liked how this story wanted me to keep reading.
The book was interesting, so I finished it all tonight.
How do I review as incredibly powerful a novel as this, one I firmly believe should have won the 1977 Newbery Medal even with Mildred D.
The Lottery Rose deserves the complete review treatment from me, forging paragraph after emotionally charged paragraph on the anvil of my love for it, but such an artistically expensive review will have to wait for another time.
For now, let me say that this book is in a class by itself, and I consider it possibly the most deserving book ever to have not won the Newbery Medal.
I love The Lottery Rose.
I picked up this book because I remembered a few people recomending it to me a while ago.
I was a little bit skeptical, because it seemed old.
Not like Pride and prejudice old, just old.
I know I shouldn't judge a book by it's cover but I cant help it.
I usually go for the books with bright happy covers, and whiter pages, with bigger print.
This one seemed dull and yellowy...
But I am so glad I ended up reading it.
This book was amazing.
I cried several times while reading it...which definitely makes it a good book
If you liked "A Child Called It", then this book is for you. As for me, I hate reading books about child abuse like this one. It actually makes me physically ill. It has a good ending, and towards the middle, it gets heartfelt, and wonderful. Not many books can make me cry at the end, but this one did. Actually a really good book when you get towards the middle. I loved it!
This was amazing book, this book put me into tears. Had incredible story to tell and had sad events but amazing thematic statement to tell at the end.
Overall, it was an interesting way to approach the subject of teacher-student bullying and child abuse, but the story could have attempted to dig deeper.
As an adoptive mother of children who have been abused and neglected this little fellow touched my heart as did his hesitancy to allow himself to be loved. A very quick read. Worth the time.
A little seven and a half year old boy named Georgie Burgess is obsessed with flowers.
One day, Georgie went to the supermarket and won a rosebush.
Later on, Georgie is placed in a Catholic boys boarding school.
All little Georgie had was his rosebush.
Across the road from the boarding school, there was a house with a beautiful garden, and from that point on, Georgie wanted to plant his rosebush there.
Eventually, the principal of the school tries to tell Georgie that he needs to plant it somewhere else.
But, Georgie wasn’t going to be satisfied if he planted his rosebush somewhere else.
I loved this book! it's a sweet, sad story. And a quick read...
I never really felt that love for her and I wanted to feel closer to her as a reader.As for the predictability of the plot… well, I can't really hold that against IR.
Are we supposed to believe that her comment that no matter where she is, Georgie will be hers will be enough to sustain that little guy?
Personally, I think that even though children are incredibly resilient, it's asking a lot to have him completely recovered to the point that he is able to survive the death of a beloved friend and the disappearance of a second mother figure only months after leaving a hellish home life.I also didn't find the other child characters credible.The first half of this novel was excellent and if I'd stopped there I would have given the book 4 to 5 stars.
It started when a 10 year old called Georgie had found a lottery ticket.
He had won first prize and got a beautiful rose.
He loved roses and flowers.
He had a family but that didn’t make him happy.
Georgie had a hard life, even though his mother wasn’t there for him, he had decided to run away from that place.
Then he had to go to a foster home.
He didn’t like it, but it was the only place to live.
When Georgie had bad memories of his bad childhood, he would get out a rose book that was given to
Georgie had a hard life, even though his mother wasn’t there for him, he had decided to run away from that place.
When Georgie had bad memories of his bad childhood, he would get out a rose book that was given to from the Librarian.
Even though he had lived in the foster home away from his mother, he loved where he was at because there was a beautiful garden full of flowers.
I cried in this book because it shows that some people live in a sad life because of their parents.
To me, I recommend this book to people that love sad and sweet stories.
The Lottery Rose by Irene hunt is a story about a young boy named Georgie burgess and how he handles the struggles through his life.
Georgie believes his ticket is lucky and he was right because he won a rose bush from the lottery.
Georgie planted his rose bush in their newborns garden and he talks to it everyday about how he is feeling.
Then one day something tragic happens and one of the boys that goes to Georgie's school falls into the pond by geese chasing him and then he dies.
Then Georgie takes the rose bush out from the garden and plants if right next to the boy's grave.
He is then sent to a boarding school, along with a rose bush that he won in a lottery.
Georgie starts to hate this woman, but in the end, Georgie and the lady get along and Georgue gets to plant his rose bush.-Book Review-The Lottery Rose, is one of the most touching books that I have read in a long time.
Before Georgie was sent to the boarding school he had won a beautiful rose bush in a small store in the lottery.
After he had been sent to the school, he wanted to find the perfect garden to plant it in.
Soon after, Georgie enters a competition to win a rosebush from his local market and succeeds, collecting his winnings—a rosebush—which he plants in Mrs. Harper’s garden, causing her to be furious and take it back to the catholic boy’s boarding school, where he meets Timothy, Mr. Hugh Collier (teaches him to read), and Robin.
Soon, he falls ill and finds a new passion for singing, acting, and his voice—perfectly pitched, he and Mrs. Harper become friends at last.This book is a great choice, however it Isn't one of my favorites.
The Lottery Rose by Irene Hunt is about a young boy named Georgie who was living in a home where his mother and her boyfriend beat him.
Georgie won a rose bush in a drawing at the nearby grocery store.
There was a garden across the street in which he wanted to plant his bush in but the owner did not like children.
He eventually gets to plant his bush in the garden and starts to like the women who owns it.
Sooner, though, Georgie has to leave to go live in an all boy school where he finds the perfect place for his rosebush: Mrs. Harper's garden.
Even though Georgie is told no by a few people, he plants the rosebush on his own anyways, and the rosebush is what brings Georgie and Mrs. Harper together.
After overcoming his dislike for Mrs. Harper for threatening to kill his plant, Georgie finds himself with a new mother.I liked the message that Georgie's relationship with Mrs. Harper tells: a parent doesn't have to be biologically related to a child, and neither is a parent always nice to their kid.
The Lottery Rose by Irene Hunt is a story about a young boy named Georgie Burgess who is shy but also a little disrespectful when it comes to listening.
The first time Georgie got to the school he didn't want to talk to anyone, until he saw a garden across the street and wanted to plant his rose bush that he won at a grocery store over in it, Georgie always had a strong passion for flowers.
Will Georgie was over he met a little boy named Robin.
The resolution was Georgie planted his rose bush next to Robins grave.
The Lottery Rose, by Irene Hunt is a story about Goegie, a 7 year old , a nice and kind boy.
The story begins when Goergie gets abused by his parents and then he goes to a special place for boys so he wouldn’t have to be abused again.
After a while at being at the chapel he gets a rose bush from the lottery and he wants to plant it on Mrs. Harper's lawn but she didn’t let him until she saw all the raw cuts, bruises, and scars but he was mad afterwards when she saw.
It went from ups and downs real quick in a turn of events.
I wish the book would have been a little longer!
I wanted to hear more about the characters and the aftermath after the turn of events.
It was creative seeing the way that the main character develops through all the twists and turns the story threw at him.
It was a unique point of view that you see the main character go through abuse.
This book is filled with many ups and downs, except the sad parts lasted longer than the happier ones.
However, one night, while at home, his mother's boyfriend, who beats him, shows up and looks directly at the young boy.
The boy screams and the man begins to beat him.
The cops are eventually involved and the young boy wakes up on the couch, a nurse looking over him.
The boy asks for his rose plant, but the janitor says he threw it out to the garbage and refuses to go get it.
The nurse looks at the janitor and says something like "I suggest you go and get his plant now" I found it humorous.
