https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/104086.The_Summer_Tree
the mythos itself remained entrenched in the familiar, but that becomes a virtue - at times it felt as if i was reading an original telling of these tales and a recounting of these myths, as if this were actually the original template, as if the tried-and-true depiction of celtic-flavored mysticism, the elves & dwarfs & trolls, the ancient powers and unending evils were being presented in their purest and most direct format.
i certainly was not expecting to read about one character's embarrassing hard-on; nor did i expect the tragic driving death of a loved one and the suicidal yearnings of that crash's survivor to become a touchstone drawn movingly upon during somber self-sacrifice.
And because on the Loom of the Weaver, the tapestry is woven into a multiple somewhat connected worlds of which each and every one reflects Fionavar in some way (the design mirrors Zelazny’s Amber in this regard), it is possible to look for help outside the constraints of immediate reality.
What a glorious feeling!), is that Kay proves that each and every one of ordinary us carries an epic hero within, ready to emerge from the mundane if given a chance, a spark of possibility and a courage to step up to the task.What I didn't like that much is the narrative jumping from one POV to another within each chapter.
So many elements overlap that I initially felt annoyed at the sameness, but, as I got further into the book, I was surprised by how unique this entire story was.First off, this was an EPIC STORY.
I constantly got confused between Kevin and Paul, and felt that the rest were more cardboard-y than alive, especially when they arrived in Fionavar.
I felt completely enraptured by the world of Fionavar, and very, very few books have transported me mind and spirit into its world.The one major thing that I do take issue with is his treatment of women in the book, particularly Jennifer's story.
But its tentacles are already working on the outside world and omens show that the time of its freedom and the war of Good vs Evil will follow.
This is not the best book I have read by Kay, but it is a very good beginning to a trilogy and I can't wait to find out how it all works out:):):) Thank you to all the awesome friends from the Kay Squad!!!
Now I wish you all Happy Reading and many more wonderful books to come!!!
They are lead through incredible adventure after adventure throughout the three books, finding their places in this new world as they participate in or witness incredible feats of bravery, sacrifice and heroism that pile one on top of the other in glorious succession for three books right down until nearly the very last page of conclusion.And all that action packed, exhilarating action is essentially why I can never really adore these books the way that I adore the rest of Kay’s work: the Daes Irae (or the Hallejuah Chorus, if it happens to be a brief happy moment), being played at full volume, without pause or interlude.Kay is just far too demanding of his readers in this book.
Five Canadian college students are transported to a magical kingdom, and all of them are pretty blasé about it.
Their lack of reaction cued me in pretty early on that I wasn’t going to like this book.
None of these characters felt like real people to me; the students are pretty interchangeable (one’s a bit crankier!
Nothing about this other, magical realm felt wondrous, so when it was threatened, I couldn’t bring myself to care.
Which is a pity, because I felt there were some interesting ideas buried in here: Paul’s story of redemption and self-sacrifice is the type of thing that’s usually right up my alley.
Then could he, in darkest secrecy, exert his strength to summon aid, and there would come a day when Rakoth Maugrim would be free in Fionavar.And a thousand years passed under the sun and stars of the first of all the worlds…”In the midst of a strange night at the University of Toronto, five students are summoned to Fionavar, the first of all worlds.
From there on starts an epic story of war and intrigue as Guy Gavriel Kay writes his only tale of high fantasy to date.The first book in the Fionavar Tapestry consists of a rather raw beauty.
I think I'd rather give this one a 3.5 on sheer enjoyability, having the reaction that I'd read this all before, and it's pacing was slow, slow, slow, but after having read it and having some thoughts as to what Kay was trying to accomplish, I'm revising it up to a solid 4.There is a lot to love in this novel, but unfortunately, it takes a long time for it to develop and ripen.
It was slow and the general pacing could have been much improved, whether by actual plot or just the illusion of things happening, but once I got over that, I discovered that the whole book was nothing more than a novel about character discovery.
This tale is no exception and even though there are some very recognizable fantasy tropes at work, they are delivered with such exquisite prose - haunting, beautiful, soulful - that you can’t help but take it all in, like a favorite scent or a beloved memory.We salvage what we can, what truly matters to us, even at the gates of despair.This is the first part of a trilogy and it does a brilliant job of slowly meting out the history of Fionavar as our five travellers discover this new world.
I also don’t think I need Lewis to be 100% correct all the time, and that probably made a difference in me liking the way Kay made the (view spoiler)[Christ (hide spoiler)] story his own.
(this book is Canadian, fyi, but you probably know that if you clicked the spoiler button.) Here’s the thing that bothers me about it: you’ve got this guy who feels a lot of guilt, (like, torturous guilt) so he volunteers to commit suicide to save the universe, and it’s a really good idea.
For they are a long-awaited part of the pattern known as the Fionavar Tapestry, and only if they accepted their destiny would the armies of the Light stand any chance of surviving the wrath the Unraveller and his minions of darkness intend to unleash upon the world…This incredible journey in a unique world is told in Kay's usual elegant prose and his typical writing style, full of poetry, rhythm and realism.
There is often something wonderfully immediate in Kay's prose, whether describing a city under drought, a battle against dark creatures, a humorous tavern brawl, or most horribly yet most vividly, torture and it's survival.What struck me the most with this particular book was the feeling I got while the story started to unfold from its pages.
This review is from my reread of this series in 2015/16.The Fionavar Tapestry was a formative work for me in many ways, with my first read from soon after they came out in the 80s and with multiple rereads since.
It's at this time that the evil god Rakoth Maugrim breaks free from his prison and declares war on the whole world.Volumes have been written on this series, regarding the use of mythology in fantasy works and the price of power and sacrifice.
The Review I generally don't write a review for a book unless I finish it.
I don't think it's fair to the author or to others interested in the book.
I didn't finish this book.
However, I did spend a significant amount of time on this book, so I think I do have the right to say something.Wow. This book beat me.
I don't know if was the method in which I read the book or if I just didn't have the mindset to do so, but I just didn't like it.
Reading became a chore and something that I didn't look
I generally don't write a review for a book unless I finish it.
I don't know if was the method in which I read the book or if I just didn't have the mindset to do so, but I just didn't like it.
Reading became a chore and something that I didn't look forward to.
Then I thought, reading a book of this type shouldn't be a chore.
I'm sure it possesses a certain charm and that maybe the series turns into a compelling read in the later books.
I was acting in a play with my great friend Jefferson when he suggested I read A Song For Arbonne.
I loved Brandon and was in love with Kay. He told me to read The Lions of Al-Rassan, which I've read numerous times since, and I had found my favourite Kay. He told me to avoid the trilogy, though, because he knew I would hate it.
How sneakily Christian of you Guy. Dave goes native.
How sneakily Anglo-Native American of you Guy. Kimberly becomes a seer.
I'd already read Kay's good stuff -- maybe even his great stuff -- and going back to his freshman work was depressing.
Είναι για 4,5/5 γιατί στην αρχή είναι λίγο περίεργο πως πείθονται 5 άτομα ξαφνικά τόσο εύκολα να κάνουν την μεταφορά σε έναν άλλο κόσμο. Αν παραβλέψουμε αυτό, είναι ένα πολύ καλό βιβλίο φαντασίας που σε κάνει να θες να διαβάσεις το επόμενο αμέσως. Η γραφή του είναι ωραία, όπου πρέπει περιγραφική και όπου πρέπει σύντομη. Σου εξηγεί σταδιακά την ιστορία και έτσι σου κρατάει το ενδιαφέρον συνέχεια. Για περισσότερα διαβάστε εδώ:http://bit.ly/2iRLJoe
5.0 stars. I just finished re-reading this book and was blown away by it. This is intelligent High Fantasy at its best. Gay Gavriel Kay is an incredible writer and his world building as fantastic. It is hard to be original in this well-worn genre, but Kay pulls it off and makes his characters and the world-setting unique and fresh. Highly recommended!!!
I'm going to start my review of this book with some, at least slightly negative comments, so...before I do so let me say that I liked the book pretty well and am giving it 4 stars (I'd probably go 3.5+ if I had that option, but I don't).I tried to read this book (these books as it's a trilogy) some years ago and was, shall we say, far from enamored with them.
He has a lot in common with Tolkien, really: the synthesis of a new mythology (though not done as history, and therefore lacking all the little authenticating details that Tolkien put in) using elements of an old one (though Kay used Celtic and Norse mythology, and goodness knows what else).
The comparisons can't help but be made, though Kay sees his world as a tapestry and Tolkien as a song being sung.I don't think he makes his world as well as Tolkien does.
I think, perhaps more like C.S. Lewis, he tries to handle more than he can really weave together.But, that's not to say it's totally unsuccessful.
I love Guy Gavriel Kay. I love Portal Fantasy.
Then why didn't I love this book you ask?
First, you can tell that Kay is cutting his teeth as a writer in this first book of his first series.
The plot is all too reminiscent of most of the standard fantasies that came before this one.
I just felt that a writer of Kay's obvious talents was trying to find his way here and missed the mark a bit in his freshman effort.
And I hate saying that because as I stated earlier, I love Guy Gavriel Kay.
He writes epic fantasy of the highest order but getting into how affecting his writing is, how its often brought me to tears, that's harder to get down somehow.The Fionavar Tapestry is Kay's magnum opus, his The Dark Tower or The Lord of the Rings.
Kay is a poet and is able to have his characters, modern day 20 somethings, proclaim their love for each other in the style of epic poets or make huge declarations of war and it never feels cheesy or remotely out of place and I've never, ever encountered another author who could pull that off.
The whole magically transported into a fantasy world thing?
Then, if I still managed to somehow make it to the other world, I'd kick the crazy man's ass thinking that they somehow managed to drug me.So like I said..
The POV bounces around a lot, and with so many characters, you don't have much time to connect to any of them.
Suddenly the characters who I had spend the first 30% feeling disconnected from came alive to me.
I can't wait to read the rest of the trilogy, this is how good traditional fantasy is done.
These predilections predispose me to love this novel and this series.
It makes complete sense to me that Kay, who worked with Christopher Tolkien to get The Silmarillion edited to publish, would be heavily influenced by Tolkien’s world.
Fionavar is the master copy and our world is one of many versions of it.Also a plus for me was prominent female characters with substantial roles to play in the action, although (view spoiler)[I was disappointed that all he could think of to torment Jennifer was overwhelming sexual assault.
A complete joy to read.Possibly, because I know it is not on par with Kay’s more recent works, I should give it a 4 star rating, but I enjoyed it so much that it’s getting 5 stars.
Si deve pagare.Fine della lezione.Non sono venuto qui per salvarvi tutti.Non sono venuto qui per mostrarvi la via.Sono qui per morire."Emozionante discesa nei miti e nella magia di un regno incantato, Fionavar, minacciato dall'obsoleto cattivone di tolkeniana memoria - qua si chiama Rakoth Maugrim, ma la risata malvagia è la stessa - con il potere più grande di tutti: inimicarsi quasi ogni razza presente in quel mondo.Il viaggio interdimensionale diventa una magnifica cornice per delineare indimenticabili personaggi alle prese con i propri drammi; delle vere e proprie discese interiori così destabilizzanti, sofferte e vere da far anelare disperatamente equilibrio nella redenzione, pace dalle proprie colpe.
This is the kind of high fantasy that I can easily see re-reading, and rather wish I had come to earlier in life.
(It's definitely not a kid's book, but I'd almost rather my fictional progeny read this than Narnia.) Kay takes touchstones from mythology and weaves them together in a haunting opener to this trilogy about the first world and the impact five people from our own world have on it, in the midst of an epic struggle between good and evil.
I can't wait to read the next ones.
I really enjoyed this story. I did have a few quibbles, mainly that the way that the story had people from our world transported into this fantasy world was quite jarring. I can see where this is his first novel but it's a novel of an author finding his sea legs and I'm looking forward to how the rest of the series develops.
Listen to something that moves you while you read it, something that has its roots in loss and sacrifice but also in love, and I suspect it'll be seared into your memory more than a decade from now as well.The mythological background of the Fionavar Tapestry is immense -- I think the books can come across quite Tolkienian at times, and I have no doubt that Kay's work on The Silmarillion must've influenced that feel, but I think that the trilogy also comes across as a genuine epic in the same vein as The Lord of the Rings because it draws on so many of the same primary sources that inspired Tolkien.
Or at least I would have been more forgiving back then, but at this point in my life, with many years of reading fantasy epics behind me, I just had a hard time mustering up much enthusiasm for this story.Besides the parallels to Tolkien and Lewis which you will have already noticed, we’ve got dwarves who live under mountains, elf-like creatures who live in the forests, names which require hyphens, apostrophes, or other funny symbols (Na-Brendel , Mörnir, Ra-Termaine, T’Varen), names of evil things which sound Russian (Rakoth, Starkadh, svart alfar, Rangat, Blöd, Khath Meigol, urgach), nasty creatures who are minions of the bad guy, a girl who finds out she’s the next seer, a hero who must sacrifice himself to save the blighted land….
Every fantasy fan should read Guy Gavriel Kay.Kay’s use of the five modern-day characters is a bit perplexing.
Ο Guy Gavriel Kay είναι μεταξύ αυτών που τα κατάφεραν και με το παραπάνω!Το Δέντρο του Καλοκαιριού δεν αργεί να σε βάλει μέσα στον κόσμο της Φιόναβαρ.
Όσο περνάνε οι σελίδες και μεταφέρεσαι κι εσύ μαζί με τους πέντε πρωταγωνιστές στη Φιόναβαρ, ανακαλύπτεις την απίστευτη φαντασία του συγγραφέα και το πόσο καλά έχει καταφέρει να πλάσει τον κόσμο του.Ήρωες, θεοί, προδότες, μάγοι, βασιλιάδες, λίος άλφαρ, λύκοι, πολεμιστές, ιέρειες, πριγκίπισσες και πολλοί ακόμα χαρακτήρες συνδυάζονται άψογα και ο καθένας αποτελεί ένα μικρό (ή και μεγάλο) κομμάτι της ιστορίας που ξετυλίγεται.
I will review the three books as one, because that is how I am reading them. But there is a hint in the five stars
Nostalgia read, sparked by a bookclub desire to read the series.
What can I say?I first read this not long after the series came out (1984 for the first one).
You know how desperate my thirteen year-old self was?
It remained shiny in my memory, musical and strong enough to pull at the heart.Like many nostalgia reads, I was somewhat afraid to approach it again, afraid it wouldn’t hold up to twenty-five years of memories.
However, I found it remained satisfying, almost as delicious, just as emotional and evocative, and somehow, even more balanced than I remembered.Continued at:http://clsiewert.wordpress.com/2014/0...
