https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/92250.Millennium_Approaches
It tells the story of four men: openly gay decorator Prior Walter, who is afraid of the process of dying of AIDs, and the loneliness and enlightenment it brings; Louis Ironson, Prior’s lover, who is afraid of the sordidness of death itself and the experience of watching someone die; the recently diagnosed, closeted Roy Cohn, the influential right-wing lawyer, who fears the loss of political influence stemming from the label “homosexual”; and Roy’s protegee Joe Pitt, the unhappy married Mormon lawyer, who is afraid of just about everything: his melancholy wife, his cynical career, his sexual identity, his very self.From the beginning, the play bursts forth with vivid language and memorable characters, and soon, although it never loses its edge, it breaks the bounds of realism and glories in hallucinator revelation.

There was a scene in the movie Still Alice when the maddeningly sexy Kristen Stewart reads Harper's last monologue from this play to her mother, and it tore my heart out HARD.
GOD I LOVE JEWISH WRITERS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
And GAY JEWISH WRITERS.
Because that's what Angels in America really is twenty years later: a transcript of a time when men ten years younger than I am today were dying, dropping like flies, while the Reagan administration looked the other way.Only through art, literature and in the hearts of those who still love them can those young men be remembered.
Harper: I'm not addicted. I don't believe in addiction and I... I never drink and I never take drugs. Prior: Well, smell you, Nancy Drew.Harper: Except for Valium. Prior: Except Valium in wee fistfuls. Harper: It's terrible. Mormons are not supposed to be addicted to anything. I'm a Mormon.Prior: I'm a homosexual. Harper: In my church, we don't believe in homosexuals.Prior: In my church, we don't believe in Mormons.Fantastic!
The way the characters speak and interact feels so real, and this isn't something I'd normally comment on but Kushner's use of punctuation is very effective, it gives a really good indication of the cadence of the lines without actually having to put any parenthetical direction into it.
Glory to!The whole play cultivates this incredible feeling of something coming, of being right on the very cusp of something profound and terrifying and blindingly beautiful, something unknown but all the more powerful for the not knowing.
ROY: Your problem, Henry, is that you are hung up on words, on labels, that you believe they mean what they seem to mean.
AIDS.
Homosexual.
Gay. Lesbian.
You think these are names that tell you who someone sleeps with, but they don't tell you that.HENRY: No?ROY: No. Like all labels they tell you one thing and one thing only: where does an individual fit into the food chain, the pecking order?
Not ideology, or sexual taste, but something much simpler: clout.
Not who I fuck or who fucks me, but who will pick up the phone when I call, who owes me favors.
This is what a label refers to.
“Religion’s a complicated thing for me,” he says over the phone from the apartment he shares with his husband on Manhattan’s upper west side right behind the Lincoln Centre.The 52-year-old, best known as the author of Angels in America, the critically lauded two-part play set in the eye of the AIDS storm in the 1980s and a lasting theatrical indictment of the social values of the Reagan era, is an agnostic.
Gosh, I almost forgot how much I love this play!
Tony Kushner is a fucking genius, no doubt about it.Yep, I'm also going to reread "Angels in America, Part Two: Perestroika" and to rewatch the amazing HBO miniseries.
Lucky me!Harper: I'm not addicted.
I don't believe in addiction and I...
Prior: Well, smell you, Nancy Drew.Harper: Except for Valium.
Prior: Except Valium in wee fistfuls.
Harper: It's terrible.
Mormons are not supposed to be addicted to anything.
I'm a Mormon.Prior: I'm a homosexual.
Harper: In my church, we don't believe in homosexuals.Prior: In my church, we don't believe in Mormons.
If you're gay and haven't read this play, you really need to get on that. If you're in theatre and you haven't read this play, you really need to get on that. If you're a human and you haven't read this play, honestly what are you even doing with your life?
Jews believe in Guilt""Do homos take, like, lots of long walks?""For God's sake, there's nothing left, I'm a shell.
Homosexuals are men who in fifteen years of trying cannot get a pissant antidiscrimination bill through City Council.
Homosexuals are men who know nobody and who nobody knows""Mathilde stitched while William the Conqueror was off to war.
Maybe we are free.
Angels in America is one of the most ambitious pieces of mainstream American theatre ever staged, and one of the most rewarding. Criss-crossing biblical metaphor with the AIDS crisis of the 80s, it is massively successful in creating a story and characters that are both empathetic and strewn with fantastical majesty. An extraordinary piece of drama. Also, surprisingly humorous.
I'm teaching this right now and just finished reading Part 1 for the umpteenth time. On this reading, I'm focusing on my course themes of movement and migration, and how these relate to American identity and citizenhood.
Kushner understands theatre and writes to it exceedingly well.The characters are well defined and the 'forwards,' the moments in the play which keep the reader/audience wanting to know what happens next, are strong.What I still don't care for (and what would have made this very wrong for the theatre for which I read this originally)is the graphic language and imagery.
But still, I think it's more than that.First, I don't think I cared to hear about (more than once), and see, a character, dying of AIDS, "shitting blood." If it was there to touch a nerve,it worked -- the first time.
It deals with so many themes of what it means to be gay in America in a fantastical, yet richly honest and real way which I imagine is very hard for a writer to achieve.
It deals with controversial themes such as politics, disease, religion and family without seeming preachy, which the play never does.
After reading it, I am so impressed by Kushner’s writing.
It is very long, but it never feels boring thanks to Kushner’s witty dialogue and inventive scenes.
I would love to play the Valium addicted Mormon housewife with a gay husband, Harper Pitt, one day.
I'm a Mormon.Prior: I'm a homosexual.Harper: Oh!
In my church we don't believe in homosexuals.Prior: In my church we don't believe in Mormons.
~ Act 1, Scene 7I re-read this play, as well as Part II, about once a year or so, just .
It remains one of the most powerful pieces of dramatic literature I've ever read, and I feel lucky that I've been able to see it live on stage.
The play is multi-layered, exploring the lives of two very different AIDS patients during the 1980s.
It's a play that everyone should read (or ideally, see) at least once.
I think that this had to be the first play that I appreciated on a level beyond literature. I've gone through a ton of different playrights, and I feel that there's something so human about this piece that transcends the subject matter. Gay or straight, it's something I recommend to everyone. I also highly recommend the TV series by HBO.
WOW. Saw this on Broadway and will never forget it.
Absolutely breathtaking and beautiful.Tony Kushner manages to write a beautifully tragic and realistic slice of life during the AIDS crisis/Reagan administration. This play offers a fantastic insight into lots of lives and how people were affected by the crisis. It's respectful, fantastical, and hypnotising. My one regret is missing out on a ticket to see this in London last May. I think that this is the kind of epic, fantastical-reality kind of theatre that causes catharsis and causes hearts to swell with emotion. Absolutely fantastic, I really can't find words to explain.
Okay this was fantastic! I don't really know what I was expecting to happen in the first part of this play, but I loved what I found! I can't wait to read part two for class! I don't even know what words I want to use right now to convey how much I really, really enjoyed this!!
beautiful and relatable and touching and painful - so timely.
One of my favourite reads from class this term!
Wow. This play certainly has a grandiose delivery.
This book focuses on the AIDS crisis in New York City (Yes, it gets compared to RENT occasionally because they were both written for the stage around the same time and deal with similar subject matter and occasionally delve into the surreal.
This play focuses on the stark reality of AIDS and it impact on people's lives as well as what it meant to be gay in the 1980s.
I will say that sometimes the surrealism goes flying over my head, but generally this a very powerful and moving play.
I saw a brilliantly acted, produced, directed and designed performance of this play, but the script just wasn't able to hold up. There are some wonderfully subtle moments that are developed but they are almost instantly destroyed under brutally obvious exposition. The angel bursting through the wall at the end is the final "fuck you" to any audience member who prefers character development to nonsensical spectacle. Ideas do not have to be shoved down our throats for us to understand... or maybe they do.
I didn't know what to expect when I first read this but I ended up liking it. It was quirky and had perfectly flawed characters. It was a good mix of the totally absurd which made the heartbreaking moments more so. I would love to see this in production. I watched bits and pieces of the movie since I was interested in seeing if they were going to double up on the roles like originally intended- and they did for some but not all.
I had to read this book for a class, and when I began reading it I was convinced I wouldn't like it. But as I read on I couldn't stop reading. I had such strong feelings for so many of the characters. I really liked Joe and could not stand Harper. I am actually really looking forward to reading part 2 on my own.
It turns out hilarity and sadness can exist together, that bombastic staging doesn't have to overwhelm social commentary, and that a mixture of religion, history, porn, humor, and death will always be award-winning.
This book is so sad. Almost unbearably sad. But it is human. This is a fantastic work that shows people and how they differ; people and how they affect one another. It's nearly perfect... in a heart wrenching kind of way.
Angels in America is my absolute favourite play of all time. Really, really well put together. The dialogue literally makes me swoon at its wittiness. I love every single character. The concept it portrays is spectacular. Anyone interested in drama should read this play.
Stunning and beautiful. Kushner writes in gold dust and stars. I loved the play and really feel like I took more from having read it afterwards. His characters, symbolism, and raw talent shine through.
Kushner uses humorously crude language to convey the seriousness of the AIDS epidemic, closeted homosexuality, religious repression, and Reagan politics. The play's fantastical air is so over the top; I'd love to see how it's executed on stage. (Part Two seems even more dramatic...)
