https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/821355.The_Pine_Barrens
I lived in New Jersey for over a year without anyone mentioning this book.
Although I had a long history with Encounters with the Archdruid I was somehow unaware that McPhee had written The Pine Barrens.
This book about the Pine Barrens of New Jersey (written in 1967) examines the people and well as the forest.
He mingles natural history with industrial history.
He incorporates folk history with political history.
The Pine Barrens shows that to write the story of a place is to write a story of the past as much as the present and the people as much as the ecology.
Rich in life, history, and folklore, there is nothing barren about this gem of a place.I've been exploring the Pines more fully for the past dozen years now.
McPhee's book has been recommended any number of times.
Two significant things I picked up from the book was really how short the prosperous times were in the Pines.
By 1850, things changed into paper milling and then to cranberries and blueberries.The second significant part of the book was that this was written prior to the Pinelands preservation.
That was news to this reader.McPhee did well to present the Pines fairly and accurately.
Upstate New York could be the setting for a remake of DELIVERANCE.
But, as usual, New Jersey beats them all.
THE PINE BARRENS by John McPhee notes the anomaly of a vast wilderness stuck between the megacities of the Eastern Seaboard, inhabited by the mysterious backwoods Pineys and thick with legions.
But this in New Jersey, a state where anything is possible.
I learned about the Pine Barrens when I dated a girl from Atlantic City and the cheap casino bus that ferried me to her would cut through the endless woods.
In John McPhee’s telling it is a place of social isolation, ghost towns swallowed in undergrowth, dead industries, real-estate bubbles, anomalies of flora and geology, mafia murders, moonshiners, cranberry bogs, and mythological creatures like the Jersey Devil.When McPhee published his book in 1967, a new round of development was planned in the Pine Barrens, including an international air hub and a modern city of a quarter million people.
Like the grandiose ambitions of planning committees in earlier generations, none of these has materialized, which I find gratifying.Himself a native of New Jersey, John McPhee found perfect subject matter in the Pine Barrens: a bit of wilderness, with a history and culture all its own, in the middle of the country’s most densely populated state.
What a great book.
This book is really not at all about McPhee or his experience...he dedicates himself to listening, and I think that technique works much better for the genre than Thoreau-esque self-centered ravings.The context of the book (published in 1968 or 69), before the Pine Barrens National Reserve in the late 1970s, is a little bit outdated, but it's interesting to see the kinds of ecological concerns for those who lived in the Pine Barrens at that time.
In the future, I am sure this book will be entirely important to my work as a writer.
Along with Oranges (next on my list), his study of the people and the flora and fauna of the Pine Barrens region in New Jersey is one of his earliest books (first published in 1968).
I grew up near the Pine Barrens & hardly knew anything about its social or natural history before reading this book.
Highly recommended for anyone interested in the natural and social history of the United States, particularly the mid-Atlantic region, and for all readers who enjoy nonfiction that is as absorbing as a novel.
In a state bent on replacing all its mystery with badly-named towns, insolvent megaplexes, and middling upscale restaurants, there's still this huge mysterious swath of woods.
Was written in the 1960s and therefore functions both 1) as a hyper-articulate primer on the value of these woods, and 2) as a time capsule environmental warning about the perils of over-development.What's apparent more than 40 years later is that the pines are still mysterious and vast, but development has made it such that one can't be sure reading this whether the places it mentions are still wild, or whether they've become parking lots, exurbs, mini-malls.
This is about a huge stretch of wilderness in New Jersey, basically between Philadelphia and NYC, that has somehow remained undeveloped.
It is a profile of the place and the people ("pineys") that live there.
The Pine Barrens originally escaped being cleared for farming due to its sandy, nutrient-poor soil, but it has remained wild due to a combination of government protection, wildfires and luck.
The people that live there, mostly in unpainted shacks, subsist by harvesting and selling blueberries, cranberries and sphagnum in a yearly cycle.
The biggest thing I got out of this book was his compassion/sensitivity/open-mindedness that gave this piece of journalism the feel of art.
Read this book years ago.
We went to three places: Valley Green along the Wissahickon Creek, the Barnes Foundation Arboretum in Merion Station and the Pine Barrens in New Jersey.
He required that we read this book.
It does an excellent job of explaining not only the people who live in this wilderness but about the flora and fauna as well.
It is hard to believe you are in New Jersey, that industrial wasteland between Philadelphia and New York!
What many people think of is not the Pine Barrens.
Read the book, and visit.
An interesting book about that great green patch of nothingness in southern New Jersey called the Pine Barrens! Actually, it's a lot of things, as prolific nature writer John McFee taught me. Although it's dated, having been written 50 years ago, the first eight chapters recount the natural and historic background of the Pine Barrens. I did not know that there were plans to develop the area, and we were pretty close to having a Supersonic Jetport in our state. At least New Jersey got something right by forming state parks so that the land can be preserved in perpetuity.
I want McPhee's essays about the pine barrens to be true today. Growing up there, but not necessarily being a piney, I suppose I represent a type of person McPhee could not have been writing about in the 60s. But for a nostos I don't entirely have access to, this book does it for me in every way. & since a you can still get lost, temporarily, in the pine barrens or (like I did) become accidentally submerged in a cranberry bog, his writing is relevant enough.
I found this entire book fascinating. Not often am I lured in on this history of my quirky state. So much is to be learned about the Pine Barrens and the people who inhabit it. I am glad I took the time to read this! I have learned so many amazing things!
McPhee at his best, and covering the best state.
1960s perspective of the pine barrens and lore. Very interesting.
Thanks, Dan - my stop at your new place yielded the best books I've found at a garage sale in quite awhile!
I'll never think of NJ the same after reading this book.
Though the writing is at times stilted and the paragraphs tend to be over-long and meandering, McPhee provides an excellent, thorough history and paints a vivid picture of this fascinating region as it appeared to him in the 1960s.
Five decades later and it appears he was wrong, as numerous reserves, state forests, state parks, and other protected areas thrive.
After reading this book, for the first time ever, I actually want to take a trip to Jersey.
AN enjoyable read showing the life of those who live in the pine barrens of New Jersey.
Some areas of the pine barrens may have changed since this book was written but not all of it has.
here were good honest folk in them there woods and there probably still are today.
It is a unique natural area in our country and this is the only way many can visit it without ruining it.
The pine barrens are fragile and fire prone.
Try reading about it and a way of life that is largely forgotten today.
I've been slowly working my through John McPhee's books ever since reading his wonderful book "Oranges" many, many years ago.
I still tell people stuff I learned about citrus fruit since reading that book more than a decade ago, now I can further annoy people with facts about a New Jersey region I'd never heard of before.In "The Pine Barrens," McPhee travels around the woodsy area of New Jersey, which apparently has a sort of backwoods reputation, and tells the stories of the interesting characters he runs into, as well as the region's history.
McPhee packs a ton into a slim book--both the history and future of the pine barrens, and the people who live in this forested community.
It reads like a long New Yorker piece, full of fun details about a vast stretch of New Jersey woods that McPhee notes has somehow sustained itself as the eastern seaboard grew into a region of cities and suburbs.McPhee details the language and mannerisms of the "piney" people, and I would've liked a wee bit more of that.
Bonus point if you loved the episode of The Sopranos set in the Pine Barrens.
Read it in a day.
Pretty great but in some ways dated natural history/folklore/sociological treatment of the vast wilderness forest near where I grew up.
Prompted one of my exceedingly rare bits of nostalgia for the state of New Jersey since leaving 9 years ago.
I'd love to try living in the Pines if it were feasible to do so.
If a new introduction were added to this book updating the stats on the dimensions and health of the forest, etc., it would be a pitch perfect read.
Following with "Phantom of the Pines," about the Jersey Devil who lives there.
Driving through the Pine Barrens to the beach for most of my adult life made this title a no brainer. The deft writing, narrative flow, and never-ending supply of scientific, social, and historical fact make this brief text long on edu-tainment value. There are some real characters spread out on those back roads of sand! Published in the late 60's, it's prompted me to read up on current Pine Barrens news and infrastructure.
Originally written in 1968 - this slim volume celebrates the vast pine forests of New Jersey. I first encountered these in The Sopranos - when Paulie and Chris drive out there to dispose of a body! McPhee takes us past the stereotypes of the area to meet the people, understand the politics and gain deeper appreciation of fragility of this ecosystem and the wider political landscape. It's a beautiful drawing of the area and has cemented by resolve to return soon.
Fabulous! John McPhee illuminates a fascinating and little-known part of the most densely populated state in the way only he can: with insight and curiosity and simple (but flowing and fast-paced prose. Originally published in the 60s, the wealth of information makes me want to explore the Pine Barrens now and see how it has changed.
“At the rate of a few hundred yards or even a mile or so each year, the perimeter of the pines contracts.” A historical, sociological, and botanical journey into New Jersey’s most overlooked and misunderstood asset...from a 1967 perspective.
Great info on the NJ Pine Barrens and it's ecology, and entertaining stories about the people of this historically unknown region. Though the book is outdated, I still recommend reading it if you're interest is in conservation and/or fascinating cultural geography of the past.
interesting examination of a strange, somewhat hidden land; the fact that this was written in the '60s adds to its intrigue. I did get bored a few times--some sections were rather dry--but there were enough interesting characters and customs to make it worth finishing.
Why did I wait so long to read this book? I have hiked and paddled in the Pine Barrens over the years and never really knew the history. A gem of a book. I would have given it five stars if maps were included.
This is a sweet, fascinating book about the Pine Barrens. I was uninitiated before this book, and while its coverage left a lot to be desired, the writing is factual with hints of lyricism that keep you pining for more (pun intended).The illustrations were lovely too. 3.5 stars, rounding up.
McPhee has a very specific, wonderful way of writing. If you've read the Talk of the Town in the New Yorker than you'll recognize the style, patter, tone and delivery. This is great depiction of the Pine Barrens area, it's history and some of it's current residents.
Incredible research and writing on this beautiful, unique New Jersey place.
