https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/73298.A_Proud_Taste_for_Scarlet_and_Miniver
I read this book, like so many of Konigsburg's, over and over as a kid. I was probably the only fifth grader at my school who not only knew who Eleanor of Aquitaine was, but could rattle off details of her life as easily as talking about an old friend. The wonderful, personal way that this book is written makes it easy to read and remember the details of Eleanor's life, and I am pretty much still waiting for Konigsburg or another author to do the same thing for other historical figures.
Frankweiler and  Jennifer, Hecate, McBeth, William McKinley and Me, Elizabeth.2 - The book tells the story of Eleanor of Aquitaine, from whom, I am decended.I really liked the execution of the unfolding of the story.
Eleanor is in heaven with people she knew during her mortal life, they are awaiting the decision of whether or not her husband King Henry II has paid enough penance time in hell and will finally be admitted into heaven.They begin remanicing and three different people take turns telling the others Eleanor's life story from their perspective.
This is a quick and funny read about the life of Eleanor of Aquitaine as a wife, a mother, and a queen.
Henry is already 800 years dead, but he's still in hell serving penance and in the dark about the comings and goings on of the world (in the story, a soul in hell is knowledge-deprived of all earthly affairs).
I find this book entertaining and such a breather after getting overtaxed from the more serious and lengthy Plantagenet narratives I’ve read before this.
This book is Eleanor/Plantagenet history in a nutshell.
Before there was an Elizabeth, a Daenerys or a Cersei, there was Eleanor of Aquitaine. Part vixen, part kick-ass heroine, she was more queen than any of her contemporaries—or (arguably) any queen in history, for that matter. This book (more YA than full-blown historical fiction) somehow managed to capture the Duchess of Aquitaine's razzle and dazzle in 200 pages. Interesting concept, witty writing.
I chose to read this book because I have enjoyed all the books I have currently read by EL Konigsburg.
The book is written from the point of view of Eleanor, her mother in law, and a former Marshal who have all died and are telling their stories from heaven.I would recommend this book especially to someone who loves to read about OLD royalty.
It is written as a book for youth, but I would think a youth reader would need a bit of a history lesson BEFORE reading this book (actually, adults, too), and would definitely need to keep a list of the characters while reading.
4 1/2 ⭐⭐⭐⭐ Wir warten auf Heinrich IIEleonore von Aquitanien (1122 - 1204) war mit zwei Königen (Frankreich, England) verheiratet und die Mutter von Richard Löwenherz und König John. (Robin Hood, Sherwood Forrest...)Die Geschichte Englands und Frankreichs im 12ten Jahrhundert, im Mittelpunkt eine willensstarke und lebenslustige Heldin. Während Eleonore im Himmel auf ihren zweiten Ehemann wartet, wird ihr Leben von Menschen erzählt, die sie auf Erden am besten kannten.E. L. Konigsburg schreibt Ju
4 1/2 ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ Wir warten auf Heinrich IIEleonore von Aquitanien (1122 - 1204) war mit zwei Königen (Frankreich, England) verheiratet und die Mutter von Richard Löwenherz und König John.
(Robin Hood, Sherwood Forrest...)Die Geschichte Englands und Frankreichs im 12ten Jahrhundert, im Mittelpunkt eine willensstarke und lebenslustige Heldin.
Sehr gute Unterhaltung über 200 Seiten, flott und witzig geschrieben und ganz nebenbei lernt man einiges an Geschichte....
„you mean that a common man now sits on the throne of England?“ - „No, Henry.
A rather plain house-wife does.“„And this one,“ Henry said, pointing to the tall man with the beard, „says, that he is an American lawyer and president.
I especially liked how the tale was narrated from heaven by contemporaries of Eleanor, and how she has been in heaven for 500 more years than her husband Henry, who is about to find out if he can come up to heaven.
The second narrator is Empress Matilda/Maud, daughter of Henry I and mother of Henry II, who discusses Eleanor's eventual marriage and life with her son Henry.
The third narrator is William the Marshall, a knight who served Eleanor's family and tells of the time between Matilda's and Henry's death.
The final narrator is Eleanor herself and discusses her son's Richard and John's rule until her death in 1204.
The historical fiction part of this book was good and very well written, but the rest of it (the part that takes place in Heaven) was wierd and not really how I see things, so that put my rating down a bit.
This book makes out Heaven to be some boring place that is not to look forward to and is not at all fun, and that is not how Heaven is.
It says that when you die you don't go to Heaven unless you are good enough, and even if you are good enough, you don't go to Heaven until you have made up for all of the bad things that you have done.
Not my favorite Konigsburg by any means, maybe only 2.5 stars.
But I do wish I had read this historical fiction (I guess?) account of Eleanor of Aquitaine back in high school when I did a report on her than the horrible books I did read.
The premise of how the story is told is interesting- reminiscing of their mortal lives during the dark ages while in heaven in modern day.
The glimpses of heaven and some allusions to modern day were some of my favorite parts.
Stories of Eleanor are interesting (she is a fascinating woman) but I'm not really sure I care a whole lot about her or her Henry to care about their ending.
I don't often call it quits with a book that I begin reading. Especially before I give it a fair chance. But I just couldn't get past the fact that the characters were sitting around in the afterlife, discussing their former lives and wondering who would be allowed out of purgatory next. Especially after just reading Eleanor of Aquitaine: A Life, I just couldn't stomach it.
Reading Konigsburg is always a delight and this has been my favorite of her books to date. A fun look at the life of Eleanor of Aquitaine told from the perspective of Abbot Suger, Queen Matilda, William Marshall, and caped off by Eleanor. It’s a fun narrative that takes place while these four sit about in heaven awaiting the arrival of Henry II. Konigsburg is hilarious, introspective, and bold in her treatment of EoA. I loved it, my little Medievalist heart was enraptured, and I cannot recommend it highly enough.
What an odd book.
I’m not sure I would have even finished it if I hadn’t also been reading Eleanor of Aquitaine: A Life I wasn’t exactly sure who the audience for this book even was.
It’s in the children’s section, by a writer for children, but the subject matter was quite adult.
Would an eleven year old want to read about Eleanor of Aquitaine?
In 1973, maybe?
In 2017, farther from maybe, leaning towards no.
I don’t remember this book at all as a child.
I adore Jennifer, Hecate, Macbeth, William McKinley and Me, Elizabeth and From the Mixed-Up Files of Mrs. Basil E.
We have brief scenes in Heaven as each of the characters tells Eleanor’s life story from his or her own viewpoint.
In the first Heaven scene, Eleanor is pacing impatiently, waiting for Henry.
“Even after more than five hundred years in Heaven, Eleanor of Aquitaine still missed quarreling and dressing up.
Eleanor missed Henry.
She missed life.”Abbot Suger tells of Eleanor’s first marriage, to Louis VII of France.
Next, Matilda-Empress, Henry II’s mother tells of the early days of Eleanor and Henry’s marriage.
William Marshal tells the story of the last years of Henry’s reign and the many fights between Eleanor and her sons and Henry.
The premise is interesting, and for a historic fiction book, it seems to deal with Eleanor of Aquitaine pretty well.
There were times when it was obvious that the person telling their "story" of Eleanor was saying things for OUR benefit - not because it was interesting or worth recounting.
This made the story feel stiff and contrived rather than interestingly free-flowing.All in all, not the best historical fiction book I've read, but one worth reading if you care about that period of history or are intrigued by the premise.Violence - They talk about wars a lot.
While waiting for her husband, Henry II, to join her in Heaven, Eleanor of Aquitane reminisces about some of the events of her remarkable life.
I find stories about the life and times of Eleanor of Aquitane fascinating...
but not the worst book Ive ever read either.If you are interested in a fabulous historical fiction novel about this subject matter I recommend, " While Christ and His Saints Slept" by Sharon Kay Penman.
That is the book that sparked my Eleanor fandom.
It is a thick, fascinating and memorable read, one of my favorite books ever.
While maybe not the best person, certainly not the worst, and definitely an amazing woman in history.
It is told from the perspective some who knew her, with comments from her, as they wait in heaven for her second husband to join them.
I had read an "adult" history of her a long time ago and remembered bits and pieces.
She was truly a unique woman.
Able to stand up for herself and make things happen in a world where women were nothing more than pawns and property for their fathers and husbands.
She married two kings and at times ran 3 different countries.
A lot of 'telling' in this one, but it works—takes some cues from Chaucer, perhaps?
Interesting choice of who gets to tell the tale: in addition to Eleanor (who gets the last words, as befits a queen), Abbot Suger (who is very proud of his own humility) tells a part, and Empress Matilda, and William the Marshall—unusual choices, in some ways.Lots of history with a healthy dose of snark, basically.
My only real complaint is that Eleanor's section—about her last fifteen years of life, after Henry II died—is rather rushed through; I'd have been interested to read more about that.
Reading this book prompts me to sport a rhinestone tiara and play Queen for the Day. It's about Elinor of Aquitaine, the ruthless woman who was first Queen of France, then Queen of England.
A PROUD TASTE FOR SCARLET AND MINIVER depicts Elinor waiting for her second husband, King Henry II, to be judged for admission to Heaven.
If you're the type of woman who hates waiting in line, taking orders, or being called "hon," this book is for you.
Yyyyyeah!!!Fans of this book may also enjoy THE LION IN WINTER, starring the fabulous Katharine Hepburn as Elinor in exile.
A very readable biography of a fascinating historical figure, a woman I've been intrigued by since I first learned about her back in grade school. And the more I know about her, the more impressed I am. The tale of Eleanor's life is told here by three who lived her story too, and are now reminiscing in heaven some eight centuries later. Lots of interesting facts and educated guesses anchor Konigsburg's creative tale, and I learned a lot of things I didn't know. Amazing to think that just one person can have such a huge impact! Teen/YA
I think I would give this a five, but something just didn't pull me in. The story was interesting, the characters were good, but maybe I wanted something more.... Well, maybe it was meant for a younger audience than me. I felt like it was too...simple, I think. Quick read, good book, highly recommended if you want to know more about the famous Queen Eleanor. Keep in mind my review is about why I didn't give it 5 stars.
i wish i liked konigsburg more. i recognize that she is very good, but her books are always really dense and slow. i enjoyed reading about eleanor of aquitaine - and i certainly know more about her than i did before - but i am now reading with my kids in mind and i don't think any of them will enjoy it. i felt similarly about "a view from saturday." too slow for our adhd culture. is it the book? is it us?
A Proud taste for scarlet and miniver was about a girl named Eleanor and three of her life long friends telling their stories about Eleanor's life. I thought this book was a good and fun book to read. I thought this book was a little confusing at times because the book wen from the present to the past over and over again. But overall this was a good book to read.
Definitely more entertaining and informative than the last book I read on Eleanor. I think I'll have to rank this one of my favourites in historical fiction. Looking forward to reading The Second Mrs Gioconda next.
I LOVED teaching this book to my middle schoolers.
Konigsburg certainly makes an amazing story of her life.
I recognize a lot of the names and historical mileposts, and I’ve done a fair amount of studying about the Crusades in particular, but this book makes it clear that I still have a lot to learn.
I also like the way Konigsburg draws out the personality of her characters.
On the other hand, I’m definitely not comfortable labelling this as a biography, as the back cover blurb from the Center for Children’s Books does.
Maybe it’s time for me to find the best real biography of Eleanor that’s out there.
Konigsburg certainly makes an amazing story of her life.
I recognize a lot of the names and historical mileposts, and I’ve done a fair amount of studying about the Crusades in particular, but this book makes it clear that I still have a lot to learn.
I also like the way Konigsburg draws out the personality of her characters.
On the other hand, I’m definitely not comfortable labeling this as a biography, as the back cover blurb from the Center for Children’s Books does.
Maybe it’s time for me to find the best real biography of Eleanor that’s out there.
As she waits with her former Abbot, her mother-in-law, and a few others, they each take turns telling the story of Eleanor's life of a period of time of which they were close to her.
And as wife of both the king of France and the King of England, and mother of more than one king, including Richard the Lion Heart, and mother of the queen of Spain, she had quite the amazing history - including being imprisoned by her husband for 16 years.
She was so amazing though - the things she did and put into place in England changed the world for the better.
Eleanor of Aquitane was an ambitious, independent woman in a time when women were seen as vassals and chattel. Born into nobility, wed to royalty, she grew up spoiled and headstrong. She also got her way within the medieval structure of the day, including joining her husband and French king on Crusade, and divorcing the king to marry a much younger rival English king. She bore many children including the now-famous Richard the Lion-Hearted and King John (of Robin Hood fame). This was an interesting look into a remarkable (but not very likable) historical woman.
I realize this is historical FICTION, and at the same time there is enough in here to make it a worthwhile supplement while being enjoyable to read. I have always liked Konigsburg’s writing and this one doesn’t disappoint. Eleanor of Aquitaine was actually a very important historical figure, so this book is an excellent resource for jumping off points to research what was true about her life.
This was actually a fun read that contained a great deal of what I assume is accurate history about Henry and Eleanor, rulers of England and Acquitaine in France. I was inspired to begin a more detail biography of Eleanor. I also enjoyed the framing of the story with Eleanor in Heaven awaiting the arrival of her husband.
