https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/131181.The_Sundial
The novel opens with a family returning to its estate after the funeral of Lionel Halloran, the heir to the fortune, who was pushed down the stairs by his own mother.
Soon one of the family gets a vision of the world ending, and the rest of the novel is spent busily preparing for this monumental happening, all lorded over by Mrs. Halloran, who grows into the role of leader of this small band of expected survivors.
So while all the elements didn't come together quite as seamlessly as in We Have Always Lived in the Castle or The Haunting of Hill House, this is still a magnificent work, and one that I will no doubt re-read with pleasure.
There is an impressive group of characters--eh, automatons--and enough lines of dialogue to tickle anyone's fancy.
The seance & its ministrations are at the forefront (along with story faves such as family curses, a limboesque arena for the wind-up toys to snap at each other in, creepy children and naive adults); you see, Shirley Jackson writes about this solely because she herself is its inverse.
She's the real deal.This is like Edward Gorey f***ing the Addams family!
The magic is derived from the fact that characters are added & subtracted with so much freakish frequency that it all seems as in a feverish dream.
i think i only like the book more for the fact that the pieces don't quite fit together, and the scene that scares me the most isn't the one i'd expect; though there are several claustrophobic and uncomfortable moments in the sundial, and i always smile at the dialogue in this novel, for me, some of shirley's wittiest writing.
several found fault with the ending which makes me perfectly content -- the ending they want i think would have to be a whole other book.
Apart from the murderess Orianna, there is Maryjane, the weak wife of Lionel: Orianna's husband Richard who's paralysed from waist down and slowly sliding down the slippery slope of dementia: Fancy, who we shall see is as psychopathic as her grandmother: the governess Miss Ogilvie: Essex, a young gigolo who has attached himself to Orianna - and last but not least, Richard's sister Fanny ("Aunt Fanny"), who is skirting the thin line between eccentricity and insanity.In fact, vintage Shirley.The Halloran house, constructed by Fanny's father, is situated near a village which is a tourist attraction in its own right, due to a notorious murder where a young girl wiped off her whole family with a hammer.
“The sight of one's own heart is degrading; people are not meant to look inward—that's why they've been given bodies, to hide their souls.” 3.5 stars. While the charmingly odd dialogue and eerie atmosphere were quite a bit more intriguing than the actual plot, you can never go too far wrong with Shirley Jackson!
The novel chronicles their interactions as they wait for a premonition to come true and plan for the paradisiacal new world that supposedly awaits them.Also, it's funny.The neat irony at the center of Jackson's style here is how all the characters comport themselves with extreme decorum and refinement, yet at the same time are openly hostile toward each other.
It makes for a lot of dryly hilarious dialogue and devious plotting.Another impressive thing Jackson does is to render irrelevant the question of whether the end of the world is "real" and whether the characters are crazy for believing in it.
Es Shirley...poco más que añadir. La ambientación de cine, la casa para vivirla y los personajes caracterizados al más puro estilo Agatha C. Y del final mejor ni hablamos ^_^
Foreword, by Victor LaValle--The Sundial
3.5. The extra half is for Jackson. Will the Hallorans witness an apocalypse? Will the apocalypse spare the Hallorans like papa Halloran predicted? Read this and find out all the answers. When you have them, let me know.
The pleasure of reading The Sundial is in the quality of Jackson's prose, the cleverness of the way she does character and plot through dialogue or limited narration, the way she can take almost any scene and infuse it with that little frission of dread and foreboding.
What it is really is a story about people and the way they act and react, and how difficult it would be to find people who are really worthy of inheriting a new world.
There's a lot of description of it, which is all revealing of character and the history of the family, but if you don't have the patience for it, that might seem quite slow.
For Aunt Fanny's long-dead father has given her the precise date of the final cataclysm!"It took some time for me to get into this book, but after the story took some awesome twists and turns, I ended up highly enjoying it!
I think that if you liked one of Shirley Jackson's other works, you'll definitely enjoy this!
There are a lot of themes that reoccur in Jackson's writing (e.g. the setting in a big isolated mansion, a large number of characters that aren't particularly likeable, and so on...) It's twisted, absurd at times, super creepy, ((view spoiler)[that scene with the taxi driver gave me some serious chills!
Aunt Shirley's "The Sundial" is not in the same class as later masterworks such as "The Haunting of Hill House" and especially the perfect "We Have Always Lived in the Castle," but it still takes the prize for the bitchiest apocalyptic novel. There's a good dose of Oscar Wilde and Evelyn Waugh in the scathingly funny dialogue, with some supernatural "Wicker Man" antics thrown in for good measure. The ending is nothing short of sublime and lifts the entire novel, forcing you to re-evaluate your view of the story, its trajectory, and highly ambiguous message.
I don’t know why I didn’t know this author before now. That’s my second book and I gave it 4 starts just because “We have always lived in a castle” is amazing, and it’s different.But even “The sundial” just left me without words. This book is an hilarious scene of how a family can collaborate and work together with a strange sense of humour and love and kind of hate, all together.I am ready for the next one. 😊
This enduring and timeless horror classic is absolutely amazing, filled with imagination and a foreboding sense of dread.
It should have been intriguing: Aunt Fanny's brother dies, but his ghost appears to her with warnings of an upcoming apocalypse, in which only the people inside the family mansion will survive.OK, this was written decades ago, but the family believes the warning so quickly that it doesn't feel right.
If you wholeheartedly believe that apocalypse will come on a certain date, and you plan and live and everything, and it doesn't happen...what will you do in the aftermath of the non-event?
Jackson's writing is really good, perhaps not as much structurally but certainly lyrically and in service to her characters.
It took me a while to figure out that most of the dialogue and character interactions were supposed to be funny, I guess because I was expecting something darker and more sinister.
I had never realized it before."And I mentioned theater -- it really did read like a play most of the time.
Totally unexpected and equally delightful.So pick it up because she's a well-respected classic scifi/horror author, but stick around because she was a better, edgier, less conventional writer than most of her male counterparts of the era.
Este es el segundo libro que leo de ella y pues hoy quiero hablarles un poco de la experiencia que tuve al adentrarme a esta historia.Cuando inicias el libro ya de entrada estas sumergido en un ambiente nebuloso, tiene una forma de narrar tan diferente y que logra generar un interés muy particular.
Tiene un aire de misterio que solo ella logra crear de una forma increíble.
Sin duda que esta autora tiene ese poder de hacer que todo sea increíble.Lee más aquí -> http://adictos-a-los-libros.blogspot....
WHAT IS THIS WORLD. Acerbic, mean, modern, and surprisingly funny. Shirley Jackson was a goddamn genius and I want everyone to read this book and then talk to me about it. One of my favorites this year.
Ambientes siniestros, personajes perversos y situaciones casi sobrenaturales son los condimentos más interesantes de este texto, cuya autora es, para mí anteriormente desconocida, sin lugar a dudas uno de los mejores descubrimientos del año.
En esta historia la mansión de los Halloran cumple una función, podríamos decir, doble; por un lado, es un símbolo de protección a los embistes del fin del mundo que se está acercando, pero por otro lado, es también el lugar en donde se desarrollan los momentos, y también los personajes, más opresivos de la trama.
Many years ago as a junior high school student, I remember reading Shirley Jackson’s short story “The Lottery” in class and being taken aback with just how....wicked it was.
It’s full of dark humor, satire, and think veiled social criticism of those who build walls around themselves.
Jackson’s characters here often think about venturing outside the walls but rarely do so because they believe they have everything they need already and it’s “safer” on the inside.
Forgetting the social issues she may or may not have been writing about, “The Sundial” just as a damn good and deliciously dark story is well worth the read.
A group of inherently unlikable, spoiled, petty characters become convinced that they are receiving messages from beyond the grave warning of the planet's destruction, and wall themselves up together in the big old ancestral home to wait for the end.
The body of the novel is an exploration of what would happen in that waiting time, while the world goes on beyond the walls.
The book manages to be a brilliant satire about the dissonance between the modern world and the concept of landed gentry, while maintaining a genuinely spooky sense of doom and gloom.
I wrote in my previous review (when i didn't finish it) that this book epitomizes Shirley Jackson's Gothic Psychedelia. Aunt Fanny, having a surreal psychotic episode (probably a seizure) sees her father's ghost, who tells her the world will end and all will die but the inhabitants of their family mansion. And everyone there believes her and acts accordingly. This novel is funny and weird and adorably dark and surreal. I find it a heavy book, strange, deep and abstract. I loved the part when Julia gets lost in the fog at night. Also the dollhouse and the shrubbery maze.
What a wonderfully weird, creepy, funny book, with such an oddball cast of characters. The plot is pretty simple: an aristocratic family believes the world is going to end on August 30th, and only people within the Halloran family homestead will survive the apocalypse and be reborn to paradise. Mrs. Halloran, the controlling, overbearing matriarch is the star of the novel. Her wit, cruelty, and vulnerability shines on every page. Can't say I've ever read a book quite like The Sundial.
2.5 stars. I love Shirley Jackson but this was just ok for me. There were some memorable moments but for the most part this story was a bit too predictable and a bit too exaggerated to be genuinely creepy or funny.
El que menos me ha gustado, hasta ahora, de los libros de esta autora.
Why haven't I embraced Shirley Jackson before now?
This was my third book I've read by her and am totally blown away by her style, her insights, her mind.
She is quickly becoming one of my favorite authors!
While this novel is not filled with ghosts or creepiness (unless you consider the family interactions creepy...
which they are), it does have a very slight other worldliness to it...
If you haven't read anything by Jackson (or if you have only read The Lottery or Haunting of Hill House) I strongly recommend picking up her other books and discover why she was such an amazing talent.
Omg, Shirley out-Jackson'd herself with this one. Hilarious mix of comedy of manners and apocalyptic tale. Love the characters, and how well-developed they are!
(Seems like I'm saying that about every novel I read, but, well, so many authors have feared and warned us about the very issues talking heads on TV are discussing with outrage and glee these days...)Like the later We Have Always Lived in the Castle, The Sundial begins with a murder accusation and we feel, at first, obliged to morally condemn the act--even if the accusation is never either proven or disproven.
There is a part in the book which is my most favourite – that said by the young child, Fancy, about the new world.
That would be perfectly fine for me, except right here I live in a lovely world, all green and still and perfect, even though no one around here seems to be very peaceful or happy.”For me the above quote somehow sums up the entire book and yet as a reader, I had to keep turning the pages to know how it ends.
Shirley Jackson for now is my favourite writer of this genre and like I said, I will only read more.
Jackson's short novel about a non-biblically based impending Apocalypse, as foretold by Aunt Fanny through the spirit of her dead father.The Sundial isn't for the novice Jackson reader; I had read in Private Demons that this book was disjointed, confusing, and with unlikeable characters, and I agree somewhat that Jackson's craft seems a little off in this work.
Towards the end of the book is a particularly poignant passage between Fancy and Gloria that I love, which showcases Jackson's lifelong desire to return to an innocent time of childlike simplicity.Jackson's carefully crafted characters, however, exist here; even if you hate them, they are still very well developed.
