https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11077.The_Sex_Lives_of_Cannibals
He wants to return to the life of a house-husband on a tropical island, supported by his wife while he floats in the blue waters of the lagoon and procrastinates about writing a book.Surprisingly, the filling of this sandwich is very tasty.
He presumes that the islanders are much degraded now in the poverty of their subsistence existence compared to the life they must have lived in this imagined 'golden age', often described elsewhere as 'the noble savage'.
”There is no place on Earth where color has been rendered with such intense depth, from the first light of dawn illuminating a green coconut frond to the last ray of sunset, when the sky is reddened to biblical proportions. And the blue...have you seen just how blue blue can get in the equatorial Pacific? In comparison, Picasso’s blue period seems decidedly ash-gray.” That look on Angel Fernandez de Soto for some reason reminds me of MaartenWhen Maarten Troost’s girlfriend Sylvia comes home and
That look on Angel Fernandez de Soto for some reason reminds me of MaartenWhen Maarten Troost’s girlfriend Sylvia comes home and asks him if he wants to move to a remote Pacific island it took him about three seconds to take stock of his life, and realize this was the best offer he’d ever had.
On the ocean side of the atoll there is a gray and barren reef shelf stained with what from a distance look like large, whitish-brownish polyps that on closer inspection turn out to be used diapers, resting there under the high sun while awaiting an outgoing tide.”Eeuuwh!Once Maarten and Sylvia settle into Tarawa there are some fundamental problems that generally people living in civilization don’t have to deal with on a daily basis.
Mostly I cracked up laughing the whole time, as if it was a book of inside jokes between the author and me, as he described the exact things that I experienced there: everything from the toilet with a unique ocean view on the Martha to Kiribati bureacracy.
The part of me that loves Kiribati and the people there as a second home and family were a little bit embarrassed, in the "I can make fun of my family, but no one else better" kind of way, but overall I think the author (whom I think I met one time at dinner at the Otintai Hotel one night) showed appropriate respect.
Those few things aside, I loved it.
Let me explain...Go to Youtube, find a video with a hyperbolic title - one that promises the BEST, MOST EXCITING, FUNNIEST of whatever the content is - watch it and if it doesn't live up to the billing see what the viewers say about it in the comment section and check out the ratio of "likes" and "dislikes".
A few samplings of that will clearly and quickly display why a misleading title is a bad idea.Sure, a title like The Sex Lives of Cannibals: Adrift in the Equatorial Pacific has the eye-catch-ability to sell more copies, but it will disappoint when the reader discovers there's no sex and no cannibals!
There were no sexytimes or people eating.If you ask people what they enjoy doing, what they love, what's necessary, many will list "travel." But what does that mean?
What does it mean?!?!?!"In the movie Miss Congeniality, there's a very funny sequence about how to answer the judges when they ask you what you want most, or would give anything for.
But when he spoke of travel, as important as it was to him, he couldn't explain very well what he meant.
To bring it back to the book, I doubt anyone can disagree that what this dude did was Travel.
Burdened with student loans and crushing credit card debt, the author decides to run away from responsibility escape with his ladylove to Tarawa, a tiny South Pacific island in the Republic of Kiribati.
"Do you want a cup of tea?""No, thanks.""How about a cigarette?""No, really.""Beer?""No, we can't"When I inquired if they had had any luck finding wives, they decided to move on and try their chances elsewhere.Troost - if you come up with a clever way to get rid of the Jehovah's Witnesses who haunt my doorway, I'll bump your score up to five.
You wrote about my culture, my people and my island I dearly love so you can be famous and rich!!!
The title is a scheme and a trick to get people's attention so they can buy your book.
I agree that you are not good with names(two years wait before you wrote this book is a long time for your brain) but disagreed that you tried to protect the people's identity.
For those who are contributing to troost'S pocket, beware your beloved home land could be next or maybe its too late since he's already written several more books.
I would have been far more interested in hearing about his girlfriend's experience in the Republic of Kiribati, since she was actually working with people and doing things, unlike J.
It isn't a funny book, although I keep seeing reviews that say it is.
The situation the author and his girlfriend find themselves in is incredibly uncomfortable and rather unhygienic - they are lucky to have survived it, quite honestly.
The author is a drifter and ultimately doesn't contribute much to the book.
(And he wrote it!)Even though I have it on my to-read shelf, I'm not sure I'll be bothering with Getting Stoned with Savages: A Trip Through the Islands of Fiji and Vanuatu.
Su didele humoro doze autorius apraso savo gyvenima vienoje is atkampiausiu salu, Tarawa (Kiribatyje), Okeanijoje. Su zmona kelerius metus praleide "rojuje zemeje", be iprastu patogumu, neturint pakankamai vandens, kenciant nuo skurdaus maisto raciono it t. t. ir pan. visgi uzsikrecia salietisku gyvenimo budu ir nebepritampa prie vakarietisko gyvenimo...Yra cia ir regiono tradiciju aprasymo, istorijos...Zodziu, visai sauni knyga, rekomenduoju.Btw, knygoje neuzsimenama apie seksa ir zmogedras...Va toks tas autoriaus humoro jausmas.
Alternatively, this work stands in nicely.J. Marten Troost goes out to the middle of "No Where", and there he finds something so trope that he absolutely must write a novel about it.
But first, he'll describe his failings to write a novel.
At least I can hope he lies poorly?There is something pitifully post-modern about his realization.
This is the expected realization, the predicted discovery.
There is almost no sex.
There is defiantly little about their sex lives.
There is one American man's discovery that he likes sandals and real shit.Where is my novel where a Cannibal discovers he likes Gucci and Shiatsu?
2.5 starsMartin Troost’s life wasn’t going much of anywhere, so he lucked out when his girlfriend got a job in the remote Pacific island nation of Kiribati, where he spent his time learning to surf, drinking with other expats, and trying to write a novel.
Troost lazed away his time on Tarawa, learned little and provides no insight into the place (though his observations about poor foreign aid decisions are biting).Also, there’s no sex and no cannibalism – unless you count the dogs.I hesitate to even count this as my challenge book for Kiribati; the problem is that the island nation has only around 100,000 inhabitants, none of whom have ever produced a novel, memoir, or short story collection.
Funny, interesting, and relaxing.
Edit: forgot to mention, the chapter on the island's dogs is not funny, interesting, or relaxing; if, like me, you hate descriptions of mistreated animals, skip it.
Also, the book's goodreads' synopsis is somewhat misleading; the book's author struggles without the niceties of western civilization, but he also comes to appreciate both the culture of the island and the double-edged sword of industrial society.
Eventually, though, the book's style, while still amusing, becomes that of a more traditional travel book.
I enjoyed reading about the author's 2 years on Tarawa, one of the Kiribati islands. It was a fast and funny read, which mixed the author's experiences with some history about the islands. What I particularly liked was that my feelings about the place changed with those of the author: at first it seemed like a hellish place, but in the end I found I really cared for the island and its people, and would have loved to read some more. I plan to read more travelogues by Maarten J. Troost.

So, with Troost we shall persevere.The book opens with a self-deprecating look into why he moved to Tarawa, Kiribati for two years, comparing himself to unnamed memoirs of go-getters who "feel alive when [they are] nearly dead." Troost had no real answer for his journey across the world; he was a person who had Aged into Adulting without the requisite understanding of What Comes Next.
See: shitting in the ocean downstream from where he is swimming.Troost mostly focused on things that affected day-to-day living in the atoll, like dog cannibalism and the bubuti, which was the cultural system of trading favor for favor whenever asked.
I began reading this book around the same time I moved to St. Thomas in the US Virgin Islands, and the hilarious pickles in which the author manages to tangle himself made my transition to island life seem like a breeze.
I cannot wait to see how this novel ends or to read other books by this author.I just finished this today (Nov. 28, 2008) and I totally recommend this to anyone, especially those who love to travel or have ever relocated to an island.
It made my transition to the Virgin Islands seem far less problematic after reading his adventures in Kiribati.
But there is a cynical, somewhat smug superiority in the way that island living is portrayed.
I want something an eensy bit more hopeful.Best quote:"The foreigners one meets tend to live life in a vivid and eccentric sort of way, and when you listen to their tales of high adventure in the South Seas, you find that you are subsequently ruined from a conversational point of view, that you can no longer even pretend to be remotely interested in someone's trip to the mall, or their thoughts about the stock market, or their opinions about the relative merit of a football player, and soon you will be branded as aloof, simply because once, on a faraway island, you heard some pretty good stories."
The author of this book was kind of a douche.
One thing I liked about this book, is the authors total honesty.
Another thing I liked, is that this book took place in the mid-90's so cell phones and computers aren't everywhere yet, so it seems compared to other books I have read on this topic, while it's a world of difference in the middle of nowhere, it's not as extreme as it probably is today, with technology and all.
Sounds like my kind of place!
After this book I never have dreams of going to a deserted island like these.
this book is an easy read.
I couldn't put it down.
His writing is very well done, and the misadventures so vicarious in nature, I feel like I've already been there, done that, and what's better about the whole situation,...
and that I can laugh at their situations...
and laugh...
and laugh...
just a damn funny book that I couldn't stop reading and one of the MOST enjoyable books I've ever read.Highly recommended.
May the drifting tide not bring you poop and may you always find yourself in the company of those who think so highly of you, that you are served canned corned beef.
(yes, they are references to this fabulous read...)
There were many times while reading this book that I laughed out loud and thought the author a very funny guy with a very funny sense of humor.
There were other times that I felt uncomfortable reading his descriptions of the islands and their people.
In the end though, before leaving the island, I feel Iike he gained a respect and love for the island and the people.
I feel like I learned about these islands/atolls and I now have a curiosity about them, which is always a great ending from a book.
A fantastic and fun read, one that cured me of ever wanting to live on a remote island in the tropics.
reiterates throughout the book that it is very hot.
VERY VERY hot.
He describes the lack of variety of food.
He tells me of the lack of all the creature comforts I take for granted.
He speaks of the horrors of lack of fresh reading material.
Forget that question, "If you went to a deserted island, what book would you take?" You'd want a whole lot more than just one!I would most certainly pack other books by Troost, easy and entertaining.
A very amusing literary journey to the island nation of Kiribati (pronounced "Kee-i-bash"), which most people have never heard of, which isn't even a member of the UN.
I read Troost's book about Fiji and Vanuatu first and I'm pleased to say I liked this book almost as much.
Troost himself wasn't working, just trying to write a novel and generally idling.
He only wrote a few details about Sylvia's work but it sounded really interesting and I wish I knew more.I look forward to reading his book about China.
And now I know I will never go to Kiribati.
I'm not sure whether he was trying to be sarcastic or ironic or both, but a great bit of this book stopped short of either and just came across as bitchy. (Long enough sentence?) Anyway, the ending was nice but he bitched about the island so much that I'm not sure I even want to visit Hawaii. Wait, that's nuts, Hawaii is better than Tarawa. Right? Guess I'll have to grab my swimsuit and find out. Oh, the sacrifices I make. *sigh*
Its a super fun account of Maarten spending two years (yes, really!) on a tiny tiny island nation that is cut off from the rest of the world like no other.
Its not one of those run-of-the-mill travel account books that run in chronological order describing places, people and food in excruciating detail without helping the reader experience anything real.
Maarten picks up each topic like high seas, animals, government, food, people in a logical way that makes you feel you were there with him, experiencing it all.Maarten, you're a fun I-Matang :)
Maarten Troost after less than 15 minutes.
And pretty much until the very last page.
Because "The Sex Lives of Cannibals" isn't really a book about Kiribati - it's about J.
Maarten Troost's life in Kiribati.
On less than 300 pages he tells us all about himself and how he is such a special snowflake.
Maarten Troost mostly just talks about J.
Maarten Troost.
Maarten Troost.
And even when he's mocking himself, he still makes sure to remind the readers that he's so much better than everyone else.
Maarten Troost exist to do the travelling and write about it for me.Having already lived something of a nomadic and adventurous life, taking in war zones and disasters amongst other not so lovely things, when Troost’s girlfriend is offered a job helping to develop and educate the citizens of Tarawa, a remote island in the South Pacific, he jumps at the chance to move with her and start the idyllic life of his desert island fantasies.
It's billed as a humorous book about a dude who lived on a tiny island near the equator for a few years.
Observations like: considering eating one of his dogs (Brown Dog) for dinner after an islander suggested Brown Dog would be very tasty or finding a stray pup and trying to muster the courage to snap its neck then toss it in the ocean or this line about Princess Diana - "The government of Kiribati was well informed about all things Diana.
J. Maarten's view of the islanders themselves was just as nauseating.
Not about cannibals at all, and featuring very little about anyone's sex life, The Sex Lives of Cannibals is not a book to judge by its cover.
But I guess nobody would buy a book called Living on Kiribati or something.
Anyway, the dude writes something like a younger Bill Bryson who's been reading David Foster Wallace and who is stuck on an overpopulated sinking atoll a billion miles from anywhere.Kiribati is a strange and fascinating place.
So I learned a little about Kiribati.
The subject matter is pretty incredible.
I must also admit that I was too shalllow to comprehend the deeper meanings in this travel book until I read the reviews here on Goodreads after finishing the book.Having said that this book does a great job of relating what life on a tiny atoll in the Pacific would be like for all of those from Western cultures who will never live there.
Yes Troost is a bit jaded in some of his stories and does tend to make himself out to be a bit too "something" to toil at a typical job like the rest of us.
But, he is the one who ended up living on a tiny atoll in the Pacific.
I read this because my friends back in PA decided they wanted to give a book club a shot and I knew I'd be visiting the weekend that they wanted to hold their discussion.
The job hunt lands Sylvia an offer to work on the tiny Pacific island nation of Kiribati, and off the pair goes, completely unprepared for the poverty, heat, and isolation of life on the Equator.
It's an interesting book and I learned quite a bit about the I-Kiribati people.
