https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/251838.The_Book_of_Images
The book of images.
Das Buch der Bilder.The last of his lineI have no paternal house,nor have I lost one;my mother birthed me outinto the world.Here I stand now in the world and goeven deeper into the worldand have my happiness and have my woeand have each one alone....This poetry collection was first published in 1902, when Rilke was twenty-six years old.
A journey in which the light of day emphasizes the color of a rose, and the silence of a room shape the nights that never end.
The nights that beg for poetry.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Re-Imagining Rilke's Metaphor in Portuguese: "O Livro das Imagens" by Rilke, Maria João Costa Pereira.
One of main reasons for having enrolled in German classes was just to be able to read Rilke in the original.
Since then I’ve read lots of translations and also the original many times over.
The bilingual translation to which I keep coming back is the one I just re-read, Maria João Costa Pereira’s.
This has got to be the most frustrating book of Poetry I have ever read; and I mean that in the nicest way possible.Rilke is the quintessential Poet; he breathes Poetry.
He is the first non-Persian poet whose poems spoke to my heart.
It took me more than two months to finish such a short book, but I came out, not only delighted, but enlightened as well.
I can't wait to read more of his work.
"DE UMA NOITE DE TEMPESTADEA noite, agitada por crescentes tempestades,como se torna subitamente imensa -,como se habitualmente estivesse recolhida nas ínfimas dobras do tempo.Não acaba onde as estrelas tentam detê-lanem começa no meio da floresta,nem no meu semblantenem na tua forma.Os candeeiros balbuciam e não sabem:mentimos luz?É a noite a única realidadedesde há milhares de anos..."
There is very little question that Rilke was the greatest German poet of the 20th century.
The only question that remains is whether he was the greatest poet in any language.
Edward Snow has captured the grace and subtle imagery of Rilke in this altogether outstanding collection of poems, in large part because he is a great poet in his own right.
This hand is falling.
And yet there is One who holds this falling With infinite softness in his hands." (85).
"E as horas de muitos dias eram assim.Como se alguém moldasse a minha imagem algurespara maltrata-la lentamente com agulhas.Senti cada aguilhão do seu jogoe era como se sobre mim caísse uma chuvana qual todas as coisas se transformassem"
If someone will die for me in the ocean, I will be brought back from stone into life, into life redeemed.
How I long for blood’s rushing; stone is so still.
Only when they spread their wings are they wakers of a wind: as if God with his broad sculptor- hands leafed through the pages in the dark book of the beginning.----Out of infinite desires rise finite deeds like weak fountains that fall back in early trembling arcs.
Then I know the storms already and grow embroiled like the sea.
Most people reach for The Letters or the Duino Elegies. Now the Elegies are without a doubt Rilke's best work but the Book of Images was really the book that brought me into Rilke's world and showed me how great of a poet he is. The Duino Elegies one comes back to over a lifetime - they are epic. But the poems here are smaller in scale but they are no less effective in their lyricism, their beauty and their melancholy. "I am like a flag surrounded by distances." Lines like these are etched in immortaility.
This is my very favourite book of poetry. It so beautiful it hurts my heart. I've bought extra copies of it and given it away.
I really wanted to read this book, but I guess it was not the right time for me. I couldn't concentrate on the poetry itself and be able to appreciate the language. Maybe I'll come back to it later?
Especially wonderful if you are afraid of or intimidated by poetry. I enjoyed having the english translation next to the original german because I understand some german. I've been told that this specific translation and translator keeps us as closer to the original words of Rilke than translations by others. Wish I understood and could read these more fully in german. I always wonder if we miss subtleties and deeper understanding when not reading any author's works not in his or her native tongue. That said, these poems always transport me...
"Vejo que as tempestades vêm aípelas árvores que, à medida que os dias se tomam mornos,batem nas minhas janelas assustadase ouço as distâncias dizerem coisas"...É a chuva que,às vezes,mede as distancias*
Léanlo.
3.5
Nights like these, there is suddenlyfire in an opera house. Like some huge monsterthe cavernous space with its circles of thousands, who crowd inside it,starts to chew.Women and menjam the passageways,and as they all cling together,the masonry bursts, and takes them with it.And the one farthest down hasn't a chance:while someone's already stamped out his heart,his ears are still full of music,which plays as he fades . . .(Kind of large volume here. And while it drags a bit in places, es ist sehr dunkel und großartig.)
"I feel myself more trusting in the nameless:with my senses, as with birds, I reachinto the windy heavens from the oak,and into the small pond's broken-off daymy feeling sinks, as if it stood on fishes." ("Progress")
from Todd Bastin:Rilke was a Bohemian-German poet (from what is now the Czech Republic) whose career flourished from the 1890s well into the 1920s, and whose quality of work kept steadily improving in the course of his career.
North Point Press has released nearly all Rilke's work in excellent translation by poet, teacher and scholar Edward Snow.
The ulterior theme unifying these poems feels like a poet on a quest to understand the real meaning of life.
Snow's English rendering is about capturing meaning, nuance and intent rather than replicating the compositional technique, and gives Rilke's poems a feeling of expansiveness in our language.
Most of what I get, I get from translation, but my German is good enough to see that the translations are far from perfect.
I don't fault the translator for the imperfection since I don't believe it's anymore possible to capture the precision and multi-facetedness of his German in another language as it would be to translate Shakespeare.
I was told the other day that Felix Mendelssohn said he wrote music to express feelings that were too definite for words, which he though were weak and ambiguous.
I think in this book, Rilke shows he was capable of clearly and definitely expressing whatever he set his mind to.
Basically whenever I'm in need of some good poetry I pick it up.I'm torn when I read works in translation because do I love the poet or the translator?
I've read other works by Rilke (ie other translations) and have really enjoyed them, so definitely giving my props to Rilke.
Thanks to him for translating it, otherwise I wouldn't be able to read it.The poems are poignant vignettes that create a person or a time or a place so succinctly that you see and believe them.
It really is a book of images.
An amazing feat for a book full of words.
This isn't my first time reading Rilke's work, but it took me a little bit to get the feel for The Book of Images.
It's beautifully written but that seems to be the only real connecting thread.
The second part of the second book is really the strongest, in my opinion, with some of my favorite poems -- The Blind Woman, The Voices poem cycle, and Requiem -- coming together.
I definitely would revisit this book; it deserves to be read over again and again, out loud and quietly to oneself.
He has a most definite style with he uses for his advantage and of course to an almost rhythmically perfect and visually spectacular effect. The poetry here stands out as shining example of the poets ability to weave the German word effortlessly. They roll off the tongue as smooth as the red Sun setting behind a dusky horizon on some Autumn evening.Pleasing but hitting hard. Or is it hard hitting?
obviously not as mesmerizing as letters to a young poet. still very nice. "and again my inmost life rushes louder, as if it moved now between steeper banks. objects become ever more related to me, and all pictures ever more pursued. i feel myself more trusting in the nameless: with my senses, as with birds, I reach into the windy heavens from the oak, and into the small ponds' broken-off day my feeling sinks, as if it stood on fishes." from progress.
This is probably my favorite Rilke series, and I feel the least troubled by translation issues with Snow at the helm. He uses language that's contemporary, but not devoid of poetic feeling. Extra points because he didn't massacre the poem, Evening "Abend", which permanently resides in my brain from Norton's somewhat archaic, but still lovely translation. He even opened it up a little for me with his contemporary flair.
The first Rilke collection I ever read. Some of the poems will be with me for life. Some have faded. These poems are like masterful postcards of stained glass, whose color you learn to appreciate with time, as it becomes nuanced and fainter in places. When the light comes through these panels, though, it shines with an unmatched vibrancy on an unexpected host. Those moments make it worth reading this collection again and again.
I really enjoyed having the original German side-by-side with the English translation (even though my grasp of German is, let's just say, less than elementary). Aside from that, I think Rilke is an underrated poet well worth reading. This book is a good start.
[…] there are poets who learn from youto say, what you, in your aloneness, are;and they learn through you to live distantness,as the evenings through the great starsbecome accustomed to eternity.
depressing and awesome.
if only religion didn't ruin perfectly sexy poetry with chastity and piousness.
BIG TIME POETRY!!! It wasn't his, it wasn't my fault,we both had nothing except patience,but Death has none.
My first Rainer Maria Rilke and I liked it. Not as magical as I thought it would be, but I don't know what I expected.
