https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/511532.Vicky_Angel
Read as part of The Infinite Variety Reading Challenge, based on the BBC's Big Read Poll of 2003.Children's books deal with death all the time, so this is no different.
enlightening (though what does one expect from a teenager, really) but it does offer up a different approach that I think, at the time the book was published, was not readily available.Less so now, but children aren't much involved in deaths.
There are many stories of children growing up on the 60s through to the 80s and even the 90s where they aren't even told someone is dead-particularly a parent-and aren't taken to the funeral.
Vicky Angel is about a girl named Jade who loses her best friend Vicky in a car crash.
It deals with the theme of bereavement, grief and guilt.Jade's friend Vicky is an outgoing, spontaneous and fun-loving girl whilst Jade is very much the opposite and more like Vicky's sidekick.
From then Vicky's ghost frequently visits Jade at school where she will not allow Jade to move on and make new friends.
Vicky then grows angel wings and disappears into the sky, allowing to Jade to continue with her life.Jacqueline Wilson was one of my favourite author's when I was at school.
Under normal circumstances, I don't know that I would ever have read Jacqueline Wilson.
Normal circumstances, however, do not take into consideration my extreme stubbornness and the existence of the BBC's Big Read List.
Due to the two in conjunction, I think this is my third Wilson book.
I have to say, while they probably aren't something I would have sought out even as a child, they're not bad.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
Additionally, Jade's situation can easily be understood as she is feeling upset to have lost Vicky but then is happy when she is around, which is a difficult position to be in.I think this book can be best used as an independent reading book within the classroom, as an effective and favorited author for teenagers Jacqueline Wilson's books are enjoyable and can help teenagers to develop themselves and helps them to be able to understand certain situations which take place in their life.
Growing up I read my fair share of Jacqueline Wilson books but I can honestly say that this one was my favourite, the one that stuck with me many years after reading it.
Filled with raw emotions, it is not a read for someone prone to emotional moments unless they have a handy box of tissues at the ready in case tears start to spill over.
It is most certainly a book to remind us of what we have and the effect that death can have on a person – taking a realistic approach to grief despite the fictional aspect of Vicky being present in the book as a ghost.
I've read it about five times and still can never get tired of how fierce, daring, and cold-hearted Vicky Waters is, and how weak, puny, and troubled Jade Marshall is.
Jade's life is falling apart; Fatboy Sam who is misunderstood to be keen on Vicky when he's just trying to get and close and help Jade, her father and mother hanging onto their relationship with all their might just for their daughter, and Vicky being the most selfish, vain, controlling devil to her own best friend.
How can Jade bear Vicky's snide comments on her choice of "pudding" friends and her cadaverous figure?
بین سه و چهار دودل بودم خیلی
All of her books focus on some challenging issue, but this is one which particularly stuck in my mind for some time after reading it.Vicky is bright, popular and everything her best friend Jade wishes she could be.
Whilst perhaps not entirely realistic, this book shines a light on how a pre teen handles the death of another young person and the associating issues of the people who are left behind.
I enjoyed reading about the mischief Vicky, now an angel, and her friend Jade get up to - such as their adventure exploring London.
This book was really sweet and I remember really noticing the changes in the main character and her becoming brave enough to voice her opinions. I think they learnt a lot off of each other, I remember being really saddened though that it was too late for Vicky to practice what she had learnt.
I didn't like this book as much as all the other Jacqueline Wilson books, I found this one quite weird
Jacqueline Wilson was my favourite childhood author, and this book is a book that allows a young reader to see a new perspective on life.
The book, Vicky Angel, is about two friends.
However, now Jade has to tackle life with her own mind and her own power, or does she?Jacqueline Wilson has successfully highlighted how grief is and how it effects people.
Jacqueline has made the book an interesting read as well as allowing the reader to have many different alternative perspectives of the plot.
Although, yes - it's harsh and young, it's the most real book I have read from Jacqueline Wilson.
Wilson points out in the author interview which is included in my edition that children's books tend not to mention death these days, though it was a common topic for children's literature on the 19th century (though it would have to be, wouldn't it, because children were so much more exposed to death then, given mortality rates for young children - their siblings and women in childbirth - their mothers).
She says she's deliberately written this book as a response to that, and it does sometimes feel a bit as if it was written to address a topic - she even makes references to that model of the stages of loss.
But she creates some great characters here, which makes up for the worthiness.
Which is shocking considering this is a kids book.This is a very sad book and I remember when I did, read this I was quite emotional whilst reading this.
I think I read this all in one day when I first got it, which was very good for me.It definatly has some very sad parts to this book but also, some funny parts I loved this book.For me to say I loved this and remember it so, accurately it definatly made a impact on me back then.It is one of those books that will always stay with me :)
Amazing story, a classic from an all time loved author, Jacqueline Wilson☺☺☺☺ what more is there to say?
4.5! The only problem I have with this book is how the ending kibd of hits a wall...
به کتابهای سال گذشتهم که نگاه میکنم، میبینم بیشتر یا کتاب نوجوانن، یا شعر.
اول به خاطر این میخوندم که سبک باشن و ذهنم رو درگیر نکنن، که بتونم دست بگیرم و تا انتها بخونمشون، که وصلم کنن به این زندگی.
ولی کمی که گذشت بیشتر و بیشتر جذبشون شدم.
کتابهای خوبی که یاد میدادن چطور باید با از دست دادنها کنار بیای.
چطور باید بعد از مرگ عزیزی به زندگی ادامه بدی.
چطور خودت رو مقصر ندونی، و خودت رو ببخشی، همین طور کسی که از دست دادی رو، به خاطر رفتنش.
هر کدوم از این کتابها رو که خوندم اشکهام جاری شده.
کتاب‌های خوبی که یاد می‌دادن چطور باید با از دست دادن‌ها کنار بیای.
چطور باید بعد از مرگ عزیزی به زندگی ادامه بدی.
چطور خودت رو مقصر ندونی، و خودت رو ببخشی، همین طور کسی که از دست دادی رو، به خاطر رفتنش.
و به تو یاد میده چطور تبدیلش کنی به نقطه قوت.این یادداشت رو برای کتاب میک هارته اینجا بود نوشتم.
برای این کتاب هم صدق می‌کنه.
و همین طور از طرف آبری با عشق و چند تا کتاب دیگه.
کتاب‌های خوبی که خوشحالم این روزا در اختیار نوجوان هاست.
I guess it was good to highlight this sort of friendship in a middle grade book so young readers are aware of how not to behave and what not to accept from someone.- Even though the important topic of grief is highlighted in the book, I do ultimately feel like this book is quite forgettable for me and didn't really leave a mark on me.Final thoughtsVicky Angel is another great book by Jacqueline Wilson and I enjoyed reading it.It looks at death and grief in a positive and hopeful way which I think readers will appreciate.
So I'm not really the target group here and not keen on reading childrens' books in the first place, however, this was extremely disappointing.
Flat and annyoing cardboard characters, terrible parental behaviour and an abrupt ending - it's not really a book I'd give my kids to read (not that I have any, but well).
So, nay.Why I read this in the first place?
Goodreads recommended it to me, saying it was similar to The Godfather.
And am none the wiser - what exactly the parallels are between Vicky and Vito (or whomever) remains the secrets of goodreads' logarithm.
It was the first out of two Wilson books I've ever read (second being the lovely "Lola Rose") and it's actually quite a powerful book, put into an "easy-read" format for kids, so to speak.The lone standing that it's a child learning to cope with her best friends death alone was interesting and sad, and the fact she starts off feeling that people blame her and wish it was her, her relationship with social society was touching.
Loved it, worth a read definitely.
Although written in a perspective for older children this book was an excellent exploration of a teenage girl's response to the sudden death of her best friend. The friend ran in front of a car and was killed. She had been very popular but was also very manipulative. The book deals with Jade's sadness at the loss of her friend, also with feelings of guilt because they had been arguing when the accident happened and also with the effects of Vicky's dominance of Jade - both while she was still alive and also in Jade's thoughts after her death.
I originally read this as a child, I loved it. I even still remember the plot, when I can't remember the plot to a book I finished like, 2 weeks ago.I am not going to give this story five stars, because I highly doubt I would enjoy this book now as I did back then. However, I also feel I have to reread it.
This Book has got to be one of the best books Jacqueline Wilson has written. Enjoyed this book very much, made me cry aswell. And that is a very good accomplishment.
BEAUTIFUL BOOK
i rate this 9/10i was so teary
(On the other hand, I think romps into light, airy, and imaginary worlds is also good food for the developing mind.)These are the books I read (some of them in an afternoon), in this order: Dustbin Baby, 2001 The Illustrated Mum, 1999 Double Act, 1995 The Story of Tracy Beaker, 1991 The Suitcase Kid, 1992 Vicky Angel, 2001 Girls in Tears, 2002In the end, these books are not really my cup o’ tea, although there was some fun in breezing through them and analyzing them together.
Just okay.I've been on a Jacqueline Wilson kick lately, reading all of her books that I loved when I was younger, but they all seem to blend into one.
That being said, I did quite like the story line of this one, it definitely isn't her best work, but it was okay.
So I killed my characters off, or abandoned the entire plot and gave them all a happy ending, or do something just as stupid and abrupt, just like what happened here.
I feel like there should of been one more chapter, just so we got some closure.Love Lucy x
An incredible read.Vick Angel is an absolutely amazing story about an normal teenage girl; Jade, who's life changes dramatically when her best friend is killed in an accident. Vicky, now a ghost, stays around Jade but is that what Jade really wants? Vicky isolates Jade from everyone with her rude remarks that she makes Jade say. This book gives an extremely powerful message about the relationship between the best of friends. I thoroughly enjoyed this book and I recommend it to ages around 11-15 and maybe female readers. An excellent example of Jacqueline Wilson's skill and passion.
Decided to read this as it's part of BBC's Big Reading List from 2003.
Vicky Angel served as a piece of light reading for me, but still managed to keep me gripped with its interesting themes of death, bereavement and guilt.
Dame Jacqueline Wilson is an author whose works I'd heard of as a child, but I'd never actually read a book of hers in its entirety, until now.
It's quite clear to see that the demographic of this book is directed towards a younger audience, but it's still able to maintain the reader's interest if one goes into it with an open mind.
"It doesn't hurt the way I thought it would.
I want it to hurt more.
I thought back to my early reading days and remembered that I loved Jacqueline Wilson and I distinctly remember reading Vicky Angel, so I bought it off Amazon to read it again.
This was a lot better when I was younger.This story is about a young girl called Jade who goes through a traumatic experience as her best friend Vicky is run over by a car outside of school.
Five stars because I can read this book over and over, I've read it more times than I can remember. The weird thing is I don't quite know why as the situation in the book is not one I have encountered. Meaning I haven't been the best friend. I have been however the crying classmate who is shocked and still grieves, but not the best friend. Still, I think it is just Wilsons incredible talent in writing that keeps me quite, quite absorbed.
