https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/764633.The_Werewolf_in_Lore_and_Legend
While it is more dry than the Sahara, it lists about every werewolf story and thensome--much to my nerdly delight.
If you have an interest in this subject and want an incredibly exhaustive list, it's worth finding (if you can handle it).
At a time when most current books on the subject love to fill in the gaps with fictitious information (as seems to be the case with stories of the Wolf Men of Tipperary), this one--if you can skim through the academic fluff--offers something a bit more reliable in terms of storytelling (or, rather, listing stories).
Summers seems to be a historian, and therefore assumes that if you are reading his book you must be too, and by extension you obviously know how to read German, French, and Latin.
I actually do know a bit of Latin, fortunately, but the other passages he quoted might as well have been jibberish.
Sometimes Summers is a bit narrow-minded, but on the whole his writing is very informative and uncommonly insightful, especially considering how old the book is.
Insightful occult analysis is a fairly modern phenomenon.Simply put, as long as you don't mind tackling books with a very academic bent, you should find this an interesting read.
"lykanthropy I comprehend, for without transformationMen become wolves on any slight occasion" _Byron_Don JuanThis book is a monumental work of anthropology. Thus it is rife with references and science speech and footnotes and other languages. Which aren't translated in text. It was also written in the 1930's, so the English you can understand is slightly archaic.I skipped the first part and went on to the werewolf legends separated by region in which I found much information and inspiration.
Montague Summers' book on werewolves is exhaustively researched and draws from a wealth of medieval, Greek, Latin, and early Modern manuscripts. The results are very informative and beautifully written. For some reason, he seems to believe in werewolves, which doesn't make much sense. As well, readers without a thorough Latin or Greek background may find his untranslated passages challenging to decipher. Still, for scholastic documentation and history, Summers' work is one of the best.
This book contains everything you would ever want (or not want) to know about werewolves and related shape-shifters in Europe from antiquity to the early twentieth century; the literary tradition of werewolves which is the subject of the final chapter is of course outdated since vampires and werewolves have taken over Young Adult and other novels and films in recent years (the Lehi Library has 260 books on werewolves and almost 1200 on vampires.)I occasionally look up a word in a foreign language, but it has been a long time since an English word has sent me to the dictionary -- probably since the last time I read Montague Summers.
Yeah, I'm done. Made it 93 pages and basically asked myself why I am still reading it. I've never had problems with following a books progress, but I honestly have no idea what I just read. Honestly, I'm not joking. I would highly recommend this book if you need some scrap paper to start a campfire. I really hope there is a better book for werewolf lore out there. I was really stoked on this book because I've always loved werewolves. Massively disappointed.
-very long-winded and pseudo-academic. However, I enjoyed reading it for the aspect of learning new folklore. The actual writing and information passed on was questionable. I mean, this guy actually believes in real werewolves -that describes the color of the book right there. Also, he quotes other sources in the original language and drops Latin phrases whenever he gets the opportunity. Half of the book was entertaining and informative, at least, in the way that it exposed a certain mindset. ...many witch-hunt type stories- sad and fascinating.
I thought this was going to be a cool anthropological study of werewolves throughout history. However, this was written by a clergyman in the 1930s and it treats werewolves as being an Actual Thing. And also he states that mental patients are possessed be demons. So yeah.However, I will say that this book was very exhaustive in looking at stories of werewolves around Europe. I just wish it was more academic and less occult. Also there were large sections of untranslated Latin, French, Italian, etc. that were a pain and I just straight up skipped over them.
A serious and well-informed book on werewolfism, and I actually appreciated the fact that the author is a firm believer in werewolves and other occult phenomena. But for this reader, his pious Christian standpoint limits the value of his research, and almost all of the numerous sources are quoted in their original language, mostly Latin and French, which I don't read well enough to find informative.
This book is nearly unreadable. The author often quotes Greek, Latin, and French, but does not translate the quotes. It contains flowery language for the sake of being flowery. I am sure the information is amazing, but it is not worth the time needed to decode it.
Great book on the original and understanding of Werewolves. Mr. Summers was one strange man.
A strange and fascinating book written by an eccentric clergyman. He believes in werewolves... or does he? He is certainly well read and often quotes from material that has not been translated. I loved his unashamed politically incorrect commentary.
what can i say about M.SUMMERS? an author who has done a great surch before every single book has ever written. just great! you don't have to read an other book since his, include all the information one can have on a topic.
There is too much quoting of other texts in different languages. I have to skip through sentences and paragraphs at a time.
I was disappointed by this book. It covered a lot of the history of the werewolf legend but wasn't very interesting. The writing was dry.
idk I haven't read it yet
A history of werewolves from a guy who genuinely believed in the supernatural and went around London dressed as a priest, despite lacking the credentials.
More of a reference book than anything. It is certainly thorough, if nothing else.
Wasn't what I was expecting. Frankly, it was quite dry.
