https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/78411.The_Bad_Beginning
It would seem that one of two things is true: Either I'm seriously overreacting to a tiny aspect of Snicket's (AKA Daniel Handler's) writing style or the rest of the world is full of blind ignoramuses who wouldn't know decent writing if they woke up in bed with it after a bender in Vegas.As a reviewer, I, of course, choose to believe the latter.Snicket has taken what should be an entertaining story, filled with untimely death, physical violence, extortion, deception, and pedophilic overtones, and corrupted it by treating its audience like a bunch of drooling idiots.I am, of course, referring to his habit of defining "difficult" words within the text, with no regard for the flow of the story or the necessity of the definition.
*I'm not going to rate this, because I've already read this book & stand by my first rating of it. I adore this story so much & I'm so happy that I took the time to re-read it. It made me feel SO nostalgic reading it. I can't wait for the netflix series!!
For some reason I had the sudden urge to re-read these books... so I decided to start listening to them on audiobook! I have the 11th book in a physical copy, but I will eventually be picking the rest of them up as well.
Poor Baudelaire siblings, life really hasn’t been easy on them these last few days.
How could we as readers not, after beholding such tragedy?Because the orphans are so likeable, which led me to care for them and their future, I never wanted to stop reading.
Being assured that Violet, Klaus and Sunny would find their happily ever after was my first preoccupation.Many events conducted the lives of the Baudelaires and, although they were unmistakably unhappy and antagonistic ones, I found charming how much we learned about the characters from them.
They called to me, those dear Baudelaires.
I can’t put it better than Lemony Snicket himself, so I’ll just shoehorn in his words: Within these pages, “the three youngsters encounter a greedy and repulsive villain, itchy clothing, a disastrous fire, a plot to steal their fortune, and cold porridge for breakfast.” So the things about these books...the setting is amazing.
But I have vivid memories of being a fairly small child and intensely poring over the pages of these books, looking for clues and ways to help the Baudelaires and, as this book says, “the people who liked them.” And I felt like I was doing something, even if it was fictional.I have Lemony Snicket to thank for a lot of things.Anyway.
This series was my ENTIRE LIFE when I was a small human child.
#IUnderstoodThatReference)Obviously the series is timeless.
The true sign of a good book is that any age can adore it.Although I found the story 1000% more creepy than I did as a kid....because Olaf's ploy to marry Violet because just that bit more creepy when you think about it.And of course it made my little soul totally muchly pained to see the torment the Baudelaire's go through.
But I love the clever quips and the witty jokes and I adore how it doesn't dumb down the children.
I love this series omg.
THIS IS AN UNFORTUNATE SERIES AND I LOVE IT.
On book 5 I'm thinking we'll probably read them all.EDIT: I have now posted reviews of all 13 books in the series - check them out!
You should join my 3-emails-a-year mailing list for updates about my books.
We have in Egypt this saying; "Who sees the Unfortunate Events of others feel solace about his own Unfortunates""اللي يشوف ميسفورشنت ايفينتس الناس تهون عليه ميسفورشنته" So, 2016 wasn't my year -EST, 2011- and now I'm hitting "rock bottom",having "A Series of Unfortunate Events"So I said, why not give this title a try"accompanied by this mysterious black cat that sat with me the whole 2 hours read"It's really dark-fun Misfortune kids Orphans' story..And a Gothic villain.And the author himself, Mr
So, 2016 wasn't my year -EST, 2011- and now I'm hitting "rock bottom",having "A Series of Unfortunate Events"So I said, why not give this title a try"accompanied by this mysterious black cat that sat with me the whole 2 hours read"It's really dark-fun Misfortune kids Orphans' story..And a Gothic villain.And the author himself, Mr. Lemony Snicket;who advises you repeatedly that this book is sad and misfortune and not with a happy endings..and please close it or return it if you can't handle all this misfortune..Even the TV show latest adaptation tells u to justLOOK AWAY, well...
If you are interested in stories with happy endings, you would be better off reading some other book.
Violet, Klaus, and Sunny Baudelaire were intelligent children, and they were charming, and resourceful, and had pleasant facial features, but they were extremely unlucky, and most everything that happened to them was rife with misfortune, misery, and despair.
And Mr. Poe who is oblivious and lives in his own little world sends them to life with a distant relative - the evil Count Olaf!
All he count wants is the children's money that Violet is to get when she comes of age.
Up until now, the three Baudelaire children have lived a fairly lavish life. Until a raging fire burns through their home with their parents inside. Their deaths are suspicious and nobody really knows how the fire started in the first place. Now they have nothing left and Mr. Poe must find a relative that’s willing to take on the responsibility of caring for them. “Mr. Poe opened his mouth to say something, but erupted into a brief fit of coughing. “I have made arrangements,” he said finally, “f
Up until now, the three Baudelaire children have lived a fairly lavish life.
When the children are delivered to their new caretaker (Count Olaf), their hope is that their life will take a turn for the better.
However, it seems that Count Olaf’s only interest is gaining their family fortune and the Baudelaire children must find a way to protect themselves from his nasty schemes.
The ending is left wide-open for the second book, The Reptile Room.
I’m really looking forward to starting the next book and reading this whole series.
It takes a very skilled writer to eschew convention and still write something interesting, and his reasons for avoiding standard practices should not be merely to differentiate himself, but to achieve some alternative goal for his story.There are authors who have achieved this, even in children's fiction--Lewis Carroll and Roald Dahl being the preeminent examples.
When Snicket laid out the premise of his books, I began to look for something along the lines of those two authors, who, despite creating stories of children suffering constantly and unfairly, managed to write entertaining, enjoyable stories.But then those stories were wild and vivid, even when they were dark.
So it is through this lens of animosity towards grown ups (hey, just become I am one doesn't mean I have to think like one) that I read the first installment of Lemony Snicket's 13-part serial A Series of Unfortunate Events.Snicket, or his alter ego, seems mighty influenced by Dahl and Edward Gorey.
Those who aren't are either dead or somehow taken away from the Baudelaire children.
Like the later, bad things keep on happening to our protagonists.The three Baudelaire children-- Violet, Klaus and Sunny-- live a rather charmed life with parents who love and respect them.
Must read!
Must read!
Dve godine sam jurila informaciju ko drži prava, šetali me od jednog do drugog da bih na kraju sjurila samog Lemoni Sniketa na jednom javnom čitanju/druženju s čitaocima u knjižari Barnes & Noble u Njujorku davne 2002.
godine i doživela nesvakidašnje iskustvo...
Oko dvestotinjak dece (i njihovih roditelja) sedelo je na podu/stajalo i naizmenično se smejalo ili vrištalo i plakalo na Sniketove imitacije/interpretacije...
I na kraju sam sjurila prava za Narodnu knjigu...
Nažalost, NK nije učinila dovoljno za ovaj serijal i ovog autora...
I nadam se da ću jednoga dana uspeti ponovo da nagovorim nekog izdavača da objavi ovaj divan serijal...
MINI REVIEW IS POSTED  If you have ever lost some-one very important to you, then you already knowhow it feels, and if youhaven't, you cannot possibly imagine it.   I was pretty excited when I read this book because that was the first time I read this book and I also had no idea what the book was about and I quite enjoyed reading it. The book never bored me but the book wasn't really amazing either. it was just fine for me. Neither good nor bad. The characters in the book were pretty interesting
I was pretty excited when I read this book because that was the first time I read this book and I also had no idea what the book was about and I quite enjoyed reading it.
The characters in the book were pretty interesting ( except the villain, he creeped me out.
and I also felt this urge to hug Violet, Klaus and Sunny while I was reading the book.I don't think I will continue reading this series.
I don't know why, but I just don't feel like I want to continue reading the series.
This book was pretty good, nonetheless and I love the illustrations in this book!
••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• This is my first time reading this book!
The Bad Beginning, Lemony SnicketThe Bad Beginning is the first novel of the children's novel series A Series of Unfortunate Events by Lemony Snicket.
شربیانی

Easily one of the best children's stories I've read, The Bad Beginning is a high stakes, whimsical twist of a fairytale.Count Olaf, the antagonist, ruins everything, but in a way that's super fun to read. As the stakes pile on, and bad luck for the main characters becomes the worst luck, and the tension reaches an all time high, the writing still maintains this playful even keel to keep everything fun and enjoyable.It had me tearing through pages to see just how bad the beginnings got. And I loved every sentence.
I am of a somewhat morbid streak, and the Series of Unfortunate Events books, I must say, tickles that grotesque bone in a way most pleasing.The story of the Baudelaire Children is one filled with tragedy and dire peril.
This is not a story for happy endings as the author will remind you, time and time again.The real thing about the book that I love is the writing style and tone of the narrative.
The downfall of the series is that the villain never changes and the stories are all essentially the same at their core: the children go to live someplace horrible, and Uncle Olaf comes back to try and take their money.
Even better the second time around!
Ayyyy, me ha gustado mucho.El primer libro de la saga Una serie de catastróficas desdichas (en inglés A Series of Unfortunate Events) me ha conquistado lo suficiente como para hacer la loca inversión de seguir leyendo la saga -y digo loca porque son 13 libros cortos con precios variables entre unos y otros.Lemony Snicket me ha enamorado con su estilo...
Cuando la dejaba, quería volver a meterme en sus páginas para saber más de Klaus, Violet y Sunny, unos personajes que me han encantado en todos los aspectos.Y os preguntaréis por qué le pongo tres estrellas a una novela que me ha encantado tanto.

So begins the children’s Series of Unfortunate Events… I know this is a kid’s book but I surprisingly really enjoyed it - it not only held my attention but entertained me quite a bit too!
Everything about The Bad Beginning embraces/lovingly parodies macabre/Gothic fiction, one of my favourite literary subgenres, albeit in a child-friendly, cartoonishly over-the-top style, so I found the book very appealing on an aesthetic level.The atmosphere of the world is bizarrely, but not off-puttingly, anachronistic.
Instead it’s attributed to yet another fictional character, “Lemony Snicket”, portrayed as a stereotypically gloomy writer a la Edgar Allan Poe (there’s even a character here called Poe) who dedicates the book to his dead love, Beatrice, while occasionally inserting himself into the text.
E eu gostei bastante.Me surpreendi como, apesar de ser um livro infanto juvenil, ele é sombrio e sarcástico.
Quase como se fosse uma crítica aos livros do gênero.
Amei os personagens (Sunny dona da minha vida), e o ritmo da história é muito gostoso.
Gostei como ele é moderadamente violento e obscuro, e traz um toque único para o livro.Não tenho costume de ler muitos livros do gênero, porque nem sempre consigo aproveitar tanto.
Tenho dificuldades em colocar a minha "capinha de infanto juvenil" e apreciar como as outras pessoas, mas esse me deixou em casa.
Estou ansioso para ler os próximos e assistir a série quando sair.
I feel like I’m finally capturing something that was missing from my childhood.
Like there was some gap in my imagination that I didn’t know was there until I started reading this series.I’ve seen the Netflix series, which only further reminded me that I had never read this series before and had been missing out.
The Baudelaires just escaped Count Olaf and his plot to steal their fortune and I find even though I know the basic premise of each story I’ve seen on the show, it hasn’t robbed the books of any of their magic.
I’m really excited to start the Reptile Room today.
so depressing omg
UPDATE 20/April/2018Sooooo I kind of want to reread the entire series because I am loving s2 of the show.
Also, I just feel that I would like it more when I reread it.UPDATE 19/Jan/20174 Stars!!!!I am updating my reviews for all the books in the series because I realized that they are much better than I initially thought.
UPDATE 10/Dec/20163.5 starsThe more I think about it I've realised this book is actually much better than I originally thought!!
ORIGINAL2.5 starsI think this book is a great children’s book.
I think this series would have been something I would have loved as a child.
Glad to say these lived up the the expectations of my 10-year old self. Off to check out the show!
To Beatrice-darling, dearest, dead.  If you are interested in stories with happy endings, you would be better off reading some other book. In this book, not only is there no happy ending, there is no happy beginning and very few happy things in the middle.  I think it is important how a book starts, because that sets the tone for the rest of the book. I myself have been guilty of prematurely-"prematurely" here means "before the time is appropriate"- judging the quality of a book based on its be
If you are interested in stories with happy endings, you would be better off reading some other book.
However, seeing as how this is a children's book, and banking on man's innate nature to seek closure, I would like to go out on a limb and say that eponymous series of unfortunate events, however, do end well for the Baudelaire orphans.
They didn't understand it, but like so many unfortunate events in life, just because you don't understand it doesn't mean it isn't so.
Klaus sighed, and relinquished—a word which here means "gave to Count Olaf even though he didn't want to"—the book on nuptial law.
They did all they could to prevent it from happening, but seeing as how I am a grownup and have the absolutely glorious authority to make rules in my house, we read this book together as a family.
And boy oh boy oh boy did these kids love this book.
By the end, I was reading to them from my phone while they had two books out following along.
Our nights are now going to be filled with Dad reading them all of the best books from my childhood and beyond.
Reading and Netflix with the kids!
Made for kids, but adults like it too! The Bad Beginning is one of those kids' books that doesn't try to "talk down" to their level. Yes, it breaks the 4th wall and assists the reader with more advanced words, often for comedic purposes, but it never feels like the drudgery of a school lesson. This first book in the series concisely sets up the sympathetic main characters and their dilemna, pits them against their colorful arch enemy and sweeps you up in the saga straight away. A most excellent beginning indeed!
