https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3419954-the-secret-battle
And no one who goes into war ever comes out unscathed.This book was first published in 1919, soon after the war it depicts, World War One. While it is a fictional story, the tale of a young British officer named Harry Penrose, it is based on the experiences of the author and other men who served in the British army during that war.
A soldier who balks, or disobeys orders he knows are dangerous to himself and his men are considered cowards by people who have no idea what he is going through, and the consequences can be tragic.Even if a man should come through the war with all his limbs and a few friends left, he will never be rid of it.
I found this as powerful on its second reading, years after the first time I opened it, as it was then. It's a timeless masterpiece about the effects of war on a sensitive, educated young officer. The narrative is unadorned and simple, as a friend tells of the battle within the victim-hero overwhelmed by the nightmare of the First World War. He struggles with his suffering until his actions to save himself and his men are tragically misunderstood. Gripping, insightful and a must-read classic.
This was very good. It really seemed more like a memoir than a novel--I wonder to what degree it was autobiographical? It really gave me a sense of what Gallipoli must have been like, as well as how men must have dealt with fear. A heart-breaking, but not unexpected, ending
The descriptions, particularly those of the Gallipoli campaign, are so evocative they will instantly provoke sympathy with what the men suffered in terms of uncertainty, heat, cold, flies and vermin, exposure, sickness and the inevitable strain on nerves that this hardship produced.The narrator first meets Penrose on the ship to Gallipoli, and then they are consistently in the same company with him for the rest of the war.
This in many ways strengthens the argument of the book, because it also goes to the immense social pressure to “do their bit” brought to bear on young men who had been pushed beyond their endurance.This story is worth reading.
The Secret Battle, published in 1919, might be the first of the British novels/memoirs of the First World War. It tells the story of a high strung young soldier called Harry Penrose who enlists in 1914 and is executed for cowardice in 1917.
Indeed, there was a man, Sub-Lieutenant Edwin Dyett, in Herbert's regiment who was shot for cowardice in 1917 and the circumstances of the case certainly raise the eyebrows of a civilian reader a century later.
And, as John Terraine explains in his excellent introduction, capital punishment was very rare in the British Army in World War One. The Secret Battle is far better than some better known books.
The descriptions, particularly those of the Gallipoli campaign, are so evocative they will instantly provoke sympathy with what the men suffered in terms of uncertainty, heat, cold, flies and vermin, exposure, sickness and the inevitable strain on nerves that this hardship produced.The narrator first meets Penrose on the ship to Gallipoli, and then they are consistently in the same company with him for the rest of the war.
This in many ways strengthens the argument of the book, because it also goes to the immense social pressure to “do their bit” brought to bear on young men who had been pushed beyond their endurance.This story is worth reading.
The book was said to have influenced Churchill and other profoundly.
It deals with how a brave, dutiful officer can nonetheless end up being shot for cowardice.
(It would be nice to think that Tony Bliar, Gordon Brown and other British politicians of the current generation had read this before sending men into what they called "wars of choice.")Apart from the subject matter, the writing is good—clear, unambiguous, and firing the imagination.One might compare Herbet's _The Secret Battle_ to Ford's _Parade's End_.
The last phrase in this book is one that will stay in my mind, I believe, for as long as I live.

Herbert would become better known later in his career as a humourist, but this early novel received wide acclaim upon its release even if it did not find a similarly robust market. Offers an account of Gallipoli, among other things.
Proof of the fact that as early as that people grasped the meaning of shell-shock/PTSD and how much the army doctrines were resented.
