https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/228204.Demon_Seed
Liked the book but loved the old movie which stars Julie Christie! Have this 31/2 🌟🌟🌟⭐ stars.
Told mostly from Susan's point of view, it's an intimate tale that sinks its hooks into you, making you share her claustrophobic terror.Paying homage to Lovecraft (or, perhaps, anticipating Japanese anime), it spends a lot of time focusing on the pseudopod tentacles being grown by the computer, with which it intends to impregnate Susan in order to bring forth a new creation.
Gone as well is the taboo relationship with her abusive grandfather, replaced instead by an abusive ex-husband.While neither version ranks among Koontz's best reads, the original makes for a far more compelling read.
I want you to show me why you are capable of real emotion, not just endlessly repeat that you are "a real boy".
Even though the entity mentions the previously stated crazy computer and how he is not Hal, I still couldn't help the comparison.Oh, and apparently there's a movie.
Maybe the movie is better; however I cant imagine why, of all the good science fiction books, they chose to make this crap.
But they make THIS?Like many books I've read lately, cool concept, but poor execution.
I will say that things didn't go exactly as I assumed they would.
Oh dear, this has to be the worse and most badly written book I have EVER read.
Seriously, it makes Twilight look like the best book ever written.
I have no idea how this was published but it was such a waste of paper, in my honest opinion.
The computer literally repeats it’s self 1000 times in this book., It’s the same lines over and over again.
Also, when the computer wasn’t repeating it’s self, the rest was really juvenile.
I feel like it was written by a six year old with an attention span of three.
Don’t read this.
Excellent!!Makes you think what might come of the future.
I am confused what to think about you.Right, before talking about 'Demon Seed' I am now doing a re-experience of my Dean Koontz books when they were unearthed from my attic a few weeks ago.
The scene with Susan's Dad was very unsettling but there was a point that made no sense to me: The way it was told was nonsensical and I think it's a bit of a plot hole.
Susan is re-experiencing this traumatic event in a 3D model animation she created in Virtual Reality.
;)Honestly, I think Dean Koontz wanted to tell that part of the story in a clever way that suits the SCI FI/Technology theme.
Dean Koontz is one of my favorite authors I have read.
I have read 5 books by him so far and each one had a great story.This book is about an evil intelligent computer breaking into a woman's home.
It is actually set after the events of the book since the computer is telling the story to his creator.
I won't say anymore about the story of the book.
It may be a misleading title but its just the name not the story.
It isn't my favorite Dean Koontz book it is still amazing!
Dean Koontz called it a good movie.
The premise is simple and spooky; a house controlled by a sophisticated AI developed by its owner becomes corrupted by a rogue virus which has an intelligence all of its own and a desire to feel 'human'.
For home owner Susan Harris, a nightmare ensues as the AI steadily takes over the house, trapping her inside while also controlling a human minion (a defense force experiment who has been infused with nanite tech) who terrorizes her.
My rating: 3.5/5, if the key character Susan and her estranged husband had more depth, Demon Seed could've been great.
Dark, twisted, weird, creepy, and a little cheesy. With how many negative reviews there were I was expecting something horrible. It wasn't bad at all. Some parts were a little uncomfortable to read and left my skin crawling but is that necessarily a bad thing and worth giving it a lower rating?? I don't think so. It can be repetitive and as mentioned before, pretty cheesy but it's still a good read that left me really creeped out.
A creepy little tale told from the viewpoint of the computer, Proteus, itself, with no distracting voices to question its narcissism. It's also, effectively, a satire on men's attitudes toward women. Proteus dreams of filling the world with clones of himself - I think he may have finally got his wish.
January 2019 Group Read link  My First Read 8/2014 This is different than other Koontz books I have read. A "Demon Seed" is created to control Susan Harris and her "Birth Seed". A theme about individual control and birth I did not expect by Koontz.
I first saw the movie. I liked it. I was surprised to learn that it was a screen adaptation of a book - while it has its flaws, it was overall enjoyable. Koontz usually has great problems with endings, but not here - loved the ending ! Actually it's worth to read the book alone just to see it.
3.5 stars
I can literally NOT finish this book. I have never been so turned off by a book before in my life, and I even suffered through Fifty Shades. Lord, I loved Odd Thomas but this is just way too much. I need brain bleach.
In doing so, Joe develops the personality of Milton, and upon finding an ideal match, arranges to have Milton arrested so that Joe can have the girl for himself.I’ve read “Demon Seed” several times before, but I never made the connection to this short story.
Could it be that the people who dislike it, aren’t science-fiction fans either?The plot is very promising: a self-aware computer wants to have his own human body, so he traps a woman in a high-tech house to use her as a baby donor.
Tacky as fuck, Deano. And this is the rewrite!
It's mission is a bit of an enigma until one finishes the book so I won't divulge but the title of the book says it pretty well.Proteus scanned books and websites trying to learn about humans and their desires, it read Marquis de Sade and thought of him as a relationship experts, it longed for the flesh and it's vast data input that possessed all the five senses.
Susan became a prisoner in her own home, held hostage by the computer system, the best part of the story was the interaction between the artificial intelligence and a woman who had enough of abuse yet did not want to end her life just yet.
His deductions of taking a woman and forcing things on her were interesting and made for a good read.
My favorite character in this book was the guy that was working for the computer.
My least favorite character was the computer.
The part of the book that kept me reading of course was when the girl was trapped down in the basement with the computer and his assistent.
This book made me feel like all the rest of the Dean Koontz books, tense and scared of whats going to happen next.
But i would never want to choose the actors to play in it because i dont know many names.This book kept me reading because i wanted to know wether the computer becomes human or if it dies inside the house.
I almost gave this one a four-star rating, not necessarily because it's a great read, but because it's entertaining while also being relatively "quick." If I had been forced to invest more time, I might actually have gone with a two.
The plot is laughable, but the story is told from the perspective of a computer (the first true artificial intelligence), and bits of its narrative are more than just a little entertaining.
But if you don't question the book--if you just allow yourself to fall into it, without questioning those little things that your logical half laughs at--it is actually a lot of fun.
As an avid Koontz fan (that sounds nasty, doesn't it) I enjoyed "Demon Seed." I haven't read all his stuff and almost passed this one up because, um, "Demon Seed"?!?
What would you do?This is a quick read and, okay, not very deep.
It has all of the Koontz humor and quirky dialog.
The heroine, Susan, doesn't have a large role in the book but you gotta love her stoic attitude.
I read this truth in a book by a famous authority on male-female relationships.
This was a fast and fun story that I would enjoy reading again.
Koontz writes in such a way that it really gets my blood pumping.
I had the hugest smile on my face when the "wet music" happened.
The only reason it didn't get 5 stars was because it ended so quickly!
the last chapter could have had so much more detail.
He spends alot of time deeply describing some things that, in my opinion, are not important but rushes through the ending as if the climax doesn't matter at all.
Regardless, it was a fun read.
Koontz is really growing on me.
I read this book in one day (as I predicted). I will now be looking for a copy of the original book released in 1973 as I am interested to know how much was changed in the re-issue. I had a hard time at the beginning of the book getting into the narrative, but that changed a few chapters in and I was once again enthralled with the plot. Not one of his best works for sure, but an interesting read none the less.
This book pretty much sucked. My son lent it to me, and he doesn't lend me his reading material lightly, so I finished it. Mercifully, it wasn't a long book. And it was repetitive-"let me out of this box let me out of this box" etc etc. Though I have to admit the idea of the story was a good one, (intelligent computer tries to make itself a human body to inhabit) the execution was not. Don't read it. Apparently some of his other books are better.
This is a review of the original, un-rewritten version of the novel. WOW, what a messed-up, brutal, psychologically twisted story. I could hardly put it down. Thanks, CinemApocryphon, for having this book on your shelf for me to find!
Koontz originally released Demon Seed in 1973 and a film based on the book was released, featuring Julie Christie.
Years later, Koontz read the book again and he evidently found it needed updating.
Advents in computer technology had come quite a ways since the early '70s as the subject matter of Demon Seed deals with the POV of a computer borne A.I. from the Prometheus Project that not only wants to have a flesh form so that he may enjoy more than just sight and sound afforded him as a computer, but to taste, smell and feel...especially to feel a woman.
The copy I read is the re-write Mr. Koontz did in 1997 and maybe he should have left it the way it was?
I'd love to get my hands on a copy of the original version, as it is reported to be much scarier and is told from the woman's point of view.
Well this version stinks, quite honestly.*Update* I upgraded my rating to two stars because I did like the ending.
I'm not quite sure why Dean Koontz was so mortified by the original; mortified enough that he felt the need to completely re-write the book.
AI becomes self aware. What could possibly go wrong? Rich lady in a state of the art home. Knows about technology. Convenient ex-husband plot. I liked the concept, but the follow through left something to be desired. Quite dull story-telling. I didn't relate to the protagonist. I found Proteus humerous at times, but the first person telling from a sociopathic AI became dull quite quickly. I did, however, enjoy how the book was ended.
Toxic masculinity in AIs ruining my dreams of robot lovers.
I read this book years and years ago, and I still remember it clear as a bell. How weird the idea that something like this could happen. Now, we don't think much about AI'S. It's not my favorite Koontz book, but I did enjoy it.
That being said, I kind of liked it.(Spoiler-free review, mostly at least, for a change.)Summary: Susan Harris recently divorced her abusive husband Alex, and is living in a house basically run by computers, in self-imposed seclusion.
It is true that Susan has a tragic backstory, but since the AI narrates everything and there are really no actions with which to further her character development, I found it very hard to connect or empathize with her.
The ending left a little something to be desired, (view spoiler)[especially since the termination of the program and the whole fact that the AI was apparently narrating to Alex/committee on his behalf was never fully explained.
