https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/363752.Bridget_Jones
Like Bridget Jones’s Diary, sequel is based on Jane Austen novel, this time Persuasion.
Naturally, Persuasion suffers from clear lack of Darcy, however Wentworth equally swoon-worthy, also Anne Elliot is obvious patron saint of Singletons everywhere, having been declared old spinster at virginal age of 27.Our little Bridget is still struggling with job, money, romance, family (overbearing mother, drunken father), blah dee blah LIFE in usual ridiculous and fun manner.
Suppose am typical girl that way, heart going all aflutter at any mention of Jones-Darcy reconciliation, evidence of Darcy-still-in-love, etc.Recommend this book for all who enjoyed Bridget Jones’s Diary, or like well-done chick lit (still hate that hateful phrase, should stop using immediately) in general.
The Colin Firth interview is hilarious! You just want to scream at Bridget to shut up and stop putting her foot in every time she opens her mouth! Just as wonderful as the first book!
Funnier and more accomplished than the original diary, and in fact takes recognition humor into a new dimension. Bridget Jones The Edge of Reason is a glorious read, and there is a laugh on every page.
This book should be retitled as Bridget Jones: The Unnecessary Sequel.
Since it's so successful, of course the author cannot resist conjuring contrived plot lines for Bridget's second adventure.
Bridget came across as charming and endearing in the first book but here she becomes annoying and irritating.
I (or the readers) love her int he first book because Bridget is not flawless.
However, the contrived plot lines of this book has managed to create a gratingly stupid Bridget which I cannot empathise with anymore.This is what happens when authors go on beyond the 'happily ever after' last line.
but oh well, I dove right into this one anyways.Okay, so in Bridget Jones: Edge of Reason Bridget starts to suspect that her boyfriend Mark is starting to develop feelings for one of his coworkers, Rebecca.
However, it is Bridget and it wouldn’t be a book if she found out that she was wrong right away.
In the end, she felt foolish for even thinking that and all is right in the world because Rebecca started dating someone else.
so I definitely didn't like this book either.
I just don't like Bridget at all.
A lot of wine.Overall, I hated this book.
I hate say this but I hate this book , can be much better if Helen fielding just wrote bridge Jones's diary and stop
My Bed. Writing critic on Goodreads Hurrah!
Will be invited to review more books and will write for famous newspaper (Guardian or Times).
Yes, will write not only funny review but insightful.Should have a little wine for to start creativity flowing.
6.01 Will go to shop and buy Silk Cut. In manner of every famous writer, must smoke and drink while writing.6.20 pm Should possible organize room first.
organized and clean.6.25 pm Found lost pair of jeans under bed!7.00 pm Right, will start review now.7.02 pm Surely the internet will help.8.00 pm V.
Surely pre-drinks and friends will help self.
I desperately love Bridget, I really do, but the story just wasn't as funny the second time around. I never thought I would tire of British humour, but - while The Edge of Reason is still VERY FUNNY - the plot line relies a lot on miscommunication stemming from the characters bumbling about and being unable to speak candidly about a situation or say what they really mean. Gets a bit old.I don't think I'll carry on with the series. The original Bridget Jones Diary is absolute comedic and chick-lit gold and I'd recommend just sticking with that one.
What a fucking terrible book. My god.
Not quite as good as the original, nonetheless, spending more time with Bridget and her friends as they count alcohol units and worry about what underpants to wear on a date is a pleasant diversion.
For while with the first book, with Bridget Jones's Diary, although Bridget often was indeed outrageous and even at times (and perhaps even rather regularly) inappropriate, she was still and usually engaged in antics that could easily and even normally happen (events, personal behaviours to which I could at least mildly and personally relate), whereas, at least for me, the majority of the scenarios presented, featured in The Edge of Reason, but especially the entire Thailand episode, simply feel a bit too strange, too over-the-top, interesting enough perhaps, but also somewhat alienating.
After finishing Bridget Jones's Diary for the second time, I turned my attention to Bridge Jones: The Edge of Reason, by Helen Fielding, which I'd never read before.
Turning to Persuasion for inspiration was felicitous.In Persuasion, Anne Elliott and Captain Wentworth loved each other in their youth (fully ten years ago), but were driven apart by the machinations and bad advice of Anne's family.
Well done, Ms. Fielding -- I think that's a wonderful way to begin a sequal and also an inspired retelling of a classic.This book was great fun and brought me great joy reading it.
La Fielding se saca de la manga una trama liosa y con muchos altibajos, perdiendo mucha de la gracia y frescura del pirmer libro. Mark Darcy y la madre de Bridget son lo mejor (por favor, la madre es ahostiablemente graciosa). A Bridget a veces la matabas, a veces le dabas un achuchón. Al menos te entretiene y, si lo comparas con la peli, es una maravilla (la peli es es-pan-to-sa -> salvo Colin Firth #AyOmá)
This shall be short and sweet since it just continues on from the first. One of the issues I mentioned previously (love triangle) evaporated. The other issue (far-fetched plot) is still present so I knocked a star off for it. I have the next one in the series waiting on my nightstand so I am hoping this last little issue disappears.STILL LOVE ME SOME MARK DARCY!
This story turned into love novel, but it's still great chick lit, great comedy and great story. Bridget is struggling with her relationship with Mark, had serious problems and struggling with her job. The end was satisfying and I was laughing out load during the feast.
Bridget Jones: The Edge of Reason (Bridget Jones #2), Helen Fielding
This was not as good as the first one...
For those of you who have only seen the movie and not read the book, warning: the movie script cuts quite a bit out, and changes quite a bit.
They really, really did leave out A LOT, and this is definitely one of many occasions where the book so surpasses the attempt at the movie.
I would have loved to have had a third book detailing Mark and Bridget getting engaged and married and some crazy stuff happening amidst all of that (the book ends with no engagement).

(Creo que es la primera vez que diré esto pero… Me gustó más la película).Si bien es un libro que me ha recordado muchísimo a la primera parte, en esta segunda entrega el personaje de Bridget resulta quizás más ridículo que en el primer libro.
En cierto modo es bueno porque hace que te des cuenta de que realmente has empatizado con el personaje, pero creo que a veces la autora peca de ser muy malvada con su creación.
Digamos que tropieza varias veces en la misma piedra.En lo que respecta al estilo de la autora, se mantiene la estructura del primer libro, esto es, está escrita en formato diario.
Fun read.
What a wonderful book. Found myself again laughing from Bridget so hard I couldn't breathe. This book really lightened up my days when I needed. So sad I finished it so fast.
Not as good as the first but still worthy of attention.
Rolig och underhållande och väldigt härligt att få återse Bridget Jones! Länk till recensionen: https://ewelinasbokblogg.blogspot.se/...
Jeigu vertinčiau dalį kaip atskirą knygą, nepriklausomą nuo kitų istorijų, tai tikriausiai vertinimas nelabai skirtųsi nuo pirmosios dalies žvaigždučių skaičiaus (tyliai nuėjau į savo įvertinimų istoriją ir pažiūrėjau, kad tų žvaigždučių buvo viso labo dvi...).
Tikriausiai iš to nepasitikėjimo ir kyla daugiausiai problemų, istorijos vingių vingelių, o iš šių - ir visi linksmi nuotykiai.Nepameluosiu pasakydama, kad kai kada (per daug dažnai) Bridžita buvo panaši į visiškai kvailą, erzinančią personą.
Bridžita Džouns - moteris, kuri lyg ir turi savyje optimizmo gyslelę, bet visada tyliai kamputyje sau pripažįsta, kad lyg ir yra per sena, lyg ir per stora, gal ir su draugais per daug išgeria, o gal ir rūkyt nebereiktų.
I got the book from my local library which is why I probably don't mind some of its flaws and will continue to read the series.
I love the fact that Colin Firth stars in the movies while Bridget swoons over him in the books.
The character of Bridget seems to be the strength as well as the weakness of the novel.
While I like her attitude sometimes and she is an easy-to-relate-to character (hello procrastination), other times she's plain annoying.
I like to believe that the series wouldn't be that popular if it had been published recently.
Bridžita, Bridžita... Nuotaikingas, kartais veikiantis depresuojančiai o kartais neįtikėtinas jos gyvenimas. Pripažinkime, juk kiekviena savyje turime savo Bridžę, kuri prisižada visko, prisigalvoja, netaip interpretuoja, laikosi dietų bei jaudinasi dėl svorio, būnam feministės, bet norime ir tobulų vyrų. Koncentruotas gyvenimo marazmas ir laiminga pabaiga :D
In her first Bridget Jones book, she taught us that no woman is complete unless she has the love of a foppish, sub-Hugh Grant, barely heterosexual posh man to complete her.
To add to the confusion, Bridget is in love with the actor Colin Firth, who they end up casting in the film as her actual love interest, Mark Darcy.
If that wasn't confusing enough, they throw in Hugh actual Grant as the Bad Boy Whom All Women Are Attracted To In Spite Of Themselves.
It's not the first book either, it's the sequel to the first book.
I was disappointed to learn that Fielding had decided to throw Bridget to the wolves of sequels, and deliver to her readers a multitude of setbacks that became less believable as the diary went on.Jones in her underwear outside and being happened upon by her ex.
Fielding opted for longer diary entries, giving the story more of the feel of a novel, where previously the shorter glimpses into Bridget's life gave the air of writing on the go, again in the most unfeasible places.
I'm pleased to report I'm no longer Bridget Jones, as (and I struggled to believe this previously) she truly is a fictional being whom I cannot relate to.
As I've mentioned, I'm relistening to the Bridget Jones books because the new one is out and I'll be reading/listening to it soon; I feel I need to brush up on what happened ten billion years ago.So.Bridget.I never liked this story as well as the first one, though time has mellowed my viewpoint a bit.
I might be a little wiser but I think that comes more from winding down toward a sedentary lifestyle and less from learning things, meaning I'm too lazy to fight or care anymore and don't do as many crazy things as a result.
