https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/59924.The_Lathe_of_Heaven
Le Guin is also interested in the arbitrary nature of reality, but she is above all a moral writer, and it's easiest to explain why I think The Lathe of Heaven is a great novel if I compare it with some of her other books.
As in A Wizard of Earthsea, a lot of the time he also has to fight himself.The Lathe of Heaven, published three years before The Dispossessed, is a kind of rehearsal for the later novel, but with a myth-like treatment more reminiscent of A Wizard of Earthsea.
“To sleep, perchance to Dream; Aye, there's the rub,For in that sleep of death, what dreams may come, When we have shuffled off this mortal coil, Must give us pause.”Ursula K. LeGuin delivers a riveting but simple tale of a man whose dreams can affect and alter reality. Told with an Arthur C. Clarke like elegance and minimalism, but with her signature mastery of the language, LeGuin goes beyond an interesting concept and explores the ins, and outs, and what-have-yous of someone with God-like, bu
But unlike Shevic, who had a purposeful dynamic, LeGuin has cast Orr as a peaceful, humble dreamer.I don’t always cast the characters in a book like a film, but this time I did, I imagined Dr. Haber as a bearded, fast talking George Clooney even though LeGuin’s description of him was more larger than life and like a huge bear.This was a great pleasure to read.** 2018 - Ms Le Guin passed from us yesterday, she will be missed and never forgotten.
The Lathe of Heaven asks the reader - is it ever okay to play God?
( Of course, when it comes to Morgan Freeman there is NO question.) You have to help another person.
But it's not right to play God with masses of people.
To be God you have to know what you're doing.
And to do any good at all, just believing you're right and your motives are good isn't enough.
Who would you normally root for?
A guy with the power to change the ugly dystopian world² but is unwilling to do so?
Or a guy who activ
The Lathe of Heaven asks the reader - is it ever okay to play God?¹ (¹ Of course, when it comes to Morgan Freeman there is NO question.) You have to help another person.
Or a guy who actively tries to harvest this power to change the world for better?
Are we responsible for changing the world if we have the means?
Dr. Haber is an extroverted proactive sweet-talking dream specialist who wants to harvest Orr's power to make the world a better place (and get himself a bit of power in the meantime).
What means are used to change the world?
"The dream is the aquarium of night" —Victor HugoOneirophobia: noun. A fear of dreams.Nonentity pencil pusher, George Orr, increasingly worried that his dreams can alter past and present reality, has therefore become afraid to dream. Caught using another person’s pharm card to obtain drugs to keep him awake, he’s referred to narcissistic psychiatrist, Dr William Haber, for an innovative course of dream therapy.The book started brightly and the first chapter promised much, a nice run of assonanc
Caught using another person’s pharm card to obtain drugs to keep him awake, he’s referred to narcissistic psychiatrist, Dr William Haber, for an innovative course of dream therapy.The book started brightly and the first chapter promised much, a nice run of assonance feeding proceedings: jellyfish, abyss.Then, to further reinforce Le Guin’s writing credentials, some beautiful imagery: …the moondriven sea.A-ha!
I purred over much of Le Guin's prose and marvelled at the ingenuity of her fascinating story.I loved the graceful, esoteric ending but, because Le Guin kept ploughing the same doctor/patient furrow throughout, and because of the tedious science bits, I’ve deducted one star.But, overall, this was a marvellously entertaining read that lovers of old-skool sci-fi will revere!
He reluctantly explains his situation to Dr. Haber, who doesn't believe him at first.The story quickly takes a dark turn when Dr. Haber witnesses George change the world with his dreams, and the doctor decides to try and take control and fix reality to his liking.
Not only did it show that there are no easy solutions to world problems like war and racism and overpopulation, but it demonstrated that even people with good intentions could never imagine all of the consequences to a radical change in society.The book was also smart about the details of the different worlds — each dream could cause significant alterations, and George was forced to remembered them all.
Dick, and according to Wikipedia it is actually her tribute to the late great author.The Lathe of Heaven is the story of George Orr an insignificant little man who dreams big!.
Orr gives a great example of this during a session with his dastardly psychiatrist William Haber: if he dreams “effectively” of a pink dog when he wakes up there will be a pink dog, but it would not surprise anybody as there will have always been pink dogs in the world, and one has wandered into the room.
I'm sure Le Guin could have thought up some more marginally-plausible mechanism by which one individual could unintentionally and uncontrollably alter reality for the entire universe, but then the readers would have spent half the book thinking about how this worked and whether it was internally consistent, and she didn't want that.
Is it possibly for a human being to really understand what the greater good is?
Again, I understand why and that Le Guin was raising issues of free will, gender norms, etc, but I think it was heavy-handed.
Really a lot of the didactic purpose of the story seemed heavy-handed, and I wish the hard work involved had been me thinking instead of the struggle to persevere in reading it.
Some of his dreams become true–not in the prescient sense, but in the reality-is-reordered sense, and George is haunted by the changes.
As the political world, environment and history change around them, George and the psychologist struggle with reality, responsibility and consequences.A number of thoughts after finishing this very powerful story.
Nowadays the eternal snows were gone from all the world’s mountains, even Everest, even Erebus, fiery-throated on the waste Antarctic shore.“ Humanity, I’m disappointed in you: you mean that we’ve known about climate change for fifty years and it’s accelerating?
That the snow is indeed receding from the world’s mountains?
George Orr, who possesses a unique ability to change the world by dreaming about, seemingly, the most mundane things, wants this power to be gone, he is sure the events should take their natural course, no matter how dire the consequences are to the humanity.
My imagination went in overdrive picturing our planet changing - billions of people disappearing, landscapes transforming, climate adjusting - all retroactive results of Orr's unconscious dreaming.
4 stars because it took so long to come up with the idea how to fix Orr's dream problem.
It’s what I consider one of her smaller books, but still one of her best.What makes The Lathe of Heaven great is that it can tackle some of the biggest issues of the time — overpopulation, environmental destruction, war, racism, the lost soul of the modern world, exploration of the dreaming mind, alternate realities, and the urge to shape society for the better — all in under 200 pages.
“The end justifies the means.
All we have is means.” ― Ursula K.
Those who cannot do it will be destroyed on the lathe of heaven." —Chuang Tse: XXIII “We're in the world, not against it.
It doesn't work to try to stand outside things and run them, that way.
You have to let it be.” - Ursula K.
I think the last bit kinda rolled away from her, but like any good PKD or Vonnegut novel, the imperfections of this novel are small enough to let it float and be read far into the future.
I won't bore with details, but the momentum of these emerging, overlapping patterns seemed to coalesce and bleed over into "real" life yesterday after just finishing The Lathe of Heaven.
My preference upon finishing a book is not to premeditate what I should read next, but instead let the "choice" come to me.
So yesterday, upon reading the last page, my family and I decided to catch a bus to Cathedral Park under the St. Johns Bridge--featured in the The Lathe of Heaven--and take in some free music.
This book is lovely in a way I can understand.I grew up in a sometimes-fundamentalist home, so for those who didn’t, this comparison might sound like an insult.
The whole day was off, with the people I cared about in my dreaming and waking life crossing over.I don’t have a moral or a lesson to that story, but it was an experience I had that made me wonder whether my dreams were creeping in to my reality, like they do with poor George Orr. And I do think many dreams can shape the world in a way I don’t understand, in a way that makes me small and brittle.
This is a fantastic science-fiction story about playing God. On the one hand, and like all good science-fiction, it presents a world of exciting and terrifying possibility: what if you could dream a new world into existence?
If all your dreams came true, and you could control those dreams, imagine the power you would have.The limitless possibility in the novel makes for an exciting and compelling read.
Le Guin is clearly an excellent writer, but it is her creative imagination that really opens up a world of wonder.
I could see it all so vividly.What would it mean to make a perfect world?
Dick which is also a novel about a person 'gifted' with the power to change the past retroactively, so my opinion of The Lathe of Heaven was probably (unfairly) affected by this glut—do two books qualify as a glut?—of past-altering fiction in my reading schedule.
This milquetoast guy named George Orr discovers that his dreams have the power to change reality (so that nobody else in the world notices the difference), so he starts abusing drugs to stave off sleep.
A psychiatrist named Dr. Haber is at first skeptical about George's talents but later discovers he can manipulate them and turn himself into a makeshift god.
Elde edilen güç ne kadar büyük olursa, daha fazla güce sahip olma iştahı da o denli artar.Daha önce birkaç politik makalesini okuduğum değerli yazar Ursula K.
Dikkatli okuma yapmak gerekiyor, çünkü gerçeklik dünyası hangisi, rüya dünyası hangisidir diye kafa karışıklığı durumu olabilir.Hikayede fantastik bir öykü ile birlikte felsefik konuların işlendiğini görmek mümkün.
Ayrıca hikayenin ilerleyişi ile birlikte, şuan ki insanlığın savaş, doğadaki ekolojik sistemin kötüye doğru sürüklenmesi ve demokrasinin günbegün kan kaybetmesi gibi konularda duyarsız oluşunun, yine insanlık için ne gibi sonuçlar doğuracağını distopya tarzında bize iletmiş bulunuyor.Son bölümde nihilizmi işlemesi de ayrıca beğendiğim bir diğer konu oldu.
This was the first book I read by her back in high school and I was blown away by it. Le Guin is one of the best science fiction authors of all time. Gripping plot, engaging characters, this is a must read!My Rating: 5+ stars
This book is a mind-stretching, profound, gorgeously written masterpiece.At age 16, George Orr realizes with horror that his dreams have the power to change the reality that he lives in.
All we have is means.”The writing is vividly descriptive and I often felt enfolded by the images of the changing world and George’s haunting dreams.
I mean the faith to let yourself move along as a very small part of a whole; to be at peace within because this world will never be at peace; to trust that you can let the person that you love the most slip through your fingers, and then find her again in one form or another.
Picking one favourite is always a bit arbitrary but both of these are childhood favourites that have survived repeat viewings/readings and have developed accretions of personal associations that add to their significance to me.
I think I can now go a step further and say that LeGuin is becoming my favourite author because she just has so many completely top-notch books: books that are about something, are thought-provoking, are elegantly written, tell excellently crafted stories about real people (though often in unreal situations) and reward repeat reading.
Through the metaphor of George Orr, a man whose dreams become reality, it examines the consequences of interference and the hubris of believing that we can "improve" the world.I read this book during a flight to Central America, where I was going to spend the summer before my second year of medical school doing HIV/AIDS education.
The Lathe of Heaven made me look long and hard at my motives and, while it did not persuade me that I was wrong in my desire to help, it planted a seed of doubt to counter the inevitable self-righteousness of the volunteer.
Orr wants to leave things as they are, except in the most dire of circumstances, while Haber wants to fix the obvious ills (racial prejudice, overpopulation, etc.) of the world.
He wasn't always wrong & I shared his frustration with Orr.I know the overall story is pretty well spoiled, but the following discusses specifics.(view spoiler)[I loved how Haber discovered the reality of Orr's power.
The way Haber could remember certain things, but could also forget - wishful thinking perfectly portrayed.
The therapist/patient relationship is pushed to its boundaries as trustful George hands himself over to Dr Haber, and so the rollercoaster ride begins.I loved the concept as it caused me think about the choices we each make as people and as a society.
The Lathe of Heaven  is the first book I've read by Ursula Le Guin, who recently passed away.
I dare say it won’t be my last.Thanks to Apatt Seriniyom for tuning me into this book, and to Kevin Ansbro for being my buddy reader on this one!
Seriously, this is the kind of bold and insane premise that I wish much more sci-fi would dare to tackle.
Though at the time I was so caught up that I barely noticed, and behind the obvious bits, there are subtler shadings of idea flitting about, deepening the picture effectively.I read this right after The Other Side, another very different, though also strangely compelling, vision of reality-warping dreamstate.
In some ways, by broadcasting its questions more clearly, this is the far less dreamlike and ambiguous of the two, though it probably makes the stronger case for itself, ultimately.As M says "I'd always been more into the idea of Ursula K.
Well, that was fun.
A trippy little book exploring the ability to change our reality.
George Orr has dreams that are "effective", meaning they change reality.
He wants them to stop but Dr. Haber wants to learn to control them, to make the world a better place.
This little book explores many current issues: global warming, racial tensions, overpopulation and more.
Dr. Haber tries to use George's dreams to stop all of these things.
Sounds good, right?
......well, dreams are not that easily controlled.
Trippy, philosophical, fun.
It reminded me of Rod Serling's Twilight Zone TV series.
This book would have made a good episode.
Por vezes pode até ser como alguns trailers de filmes, que incluem todas as partes divertidas e depois quando os vemos acaba por ser uma desilusão...Mas neste caso não resisti...
No entanto, fiquei com a sensação que ficaram algumas pontas soltas, mas talvez tenha sido de propósito, com a autora a deixar os leitores a tentar adivinhar o que se terá passado.No meio disto tudo não sei bem o que falhou, talvez a escrita de Le Guin, que tanto me agradou no domínio da fantasia (saga Terramar e Lavínia) não se revele da mesma forma neste género...Recomendado a quem goste de FC e de distopias e de histórias que nos fazem pensar "E se..."Entrevista com a autora sobre este livro, onde se fala também sobre a feitura do respectivo filme e sobre o seu processo criativo de escrita: https://youtu.be/O1bZe7bdXMw (vale mesmo a pena ver - e ouvir)." To be God you have to know what you're doing.
This book wonders what would happen if a liberal white USian man was empowered with a subtle means of effecting magical changes (of making dreams true), and suggests that all this I-Know-Besting might actually be how we got to where we are.
(If you ever find yourself complaining about overpopulation, read this book before you go on.)But now, never to have known a woman with brown skin and wiry black hair cut very short so that the elegant line of the skull showed like the curve of a bronze vase - no, that was wrong.
Le Guin's works - I never feel as if I'm adequate to the task.
"When things don’t change any longer, that’s the end result of entropy, the heat-death of the universe.
The more things go on moving, interrelating, conflicting, changing, the less balance there is – and the more life.
Made me think of balances, extremes and good intentions.
That hair fine balance between "not wanting to do/be wrong" and "wanting to do what's only right" and the many infinite considerations that drives these two striations.
"The world is, no matter how we think it ought to be.
Le Guin.
This book is one of my all time favorites.
First of all, UKL is an amazing writer.
The book plays with the nature of reality and idea of creative dreaming.
I believe UKL studied Australian aboriginal cultures' understanding of the dreamtime and how it interacts with the worldtime, and that study informs this book, as well as her book "The Word for World is Forest".
The book is wildly creative and touches on elements of the human psyche that are far beneath the surface.
UKL is the master of saying things without saying them.
Listen carefully to her words.
However in Lathe there are items that could have been addressed had the author been able to see them as problematic.The novel sets out to subvert gender by presenting an alternative exploration of masculinity, but undermines itself by keeping to other problematic patterns and portrayals.Since Lathe is otherwise a quality work and an exceptional case of bias, it is still worth reading.
But if the modern reader can't or won't identify those problems, or reads only for the surface story passively, then the novel will only reinforce the biases Le Guin spent her career confronting.
Well, darn, forgot to review this one within the month I read it so I will put some trickery below to allow me to list it with April for my blog. I read this quickly because it was something by Le Guin I hadn't read. Not my favorite, agree with it feeling like Philip K. Dick, but loved the setting of a future Portland area, with a landscape continually altered by dreams. Kind of post-apocalyptic but not for long.I discuss it more at length on Episode 083 of the Reading Envy Podcast.
