https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/73080.Nobody_s_Baby_But_Mine
5 STARSABSOLUTELY AMAZING!!! Why didn’t somebody tell me sooner how freaking  awesome  this book was??You  HAVE TO  read this book if you like:* hot football players,* cold, brooding a**holes who redeem themselves by the end of the book (my personal favorite)* strong and above average smart heroines,* love-hate or enemies-to-lovers relationships,* quirky families in small town settings,* non-cliché storylines,*complex, multi-layered characters,* exceptional writing, witty banter and super hilari

1 star Warning...RANTING AHEAD! Spoilers, too! First, apologies to all SEP fans and people who liked this book. Usually I don't do reviews of books I don't like but this one annoyed me so much I had to say SOMETHING. And that something probably won't be that coherent, but oh, well.I read some other books by her and liked them, although I noticed a slightly disturbing pattern-Hero's emotionally immature-heroine falls in love with a hero-hero can't admit he loves her-heroine runs off-hero has an e
First, apologies to all SEP fans and people who liked this book.
And that something probably won't be that coherent, but oh, well.I read some other books by her and liked them, although I noticed a slightly disturbing pattern-Hero's emotionally immature-heroine falls in love with a hero-hero can't admit he loves her-heroine runs off-hero has an epiphany-hero grovels-heroine takes him back.
Than she finds out he has a degree and feels betrayed because he's not stupid, but they still fall in love and in the end she ends up being the victim and his own family ends up protecting her from him and ARGH!!!
No hard feelings, right, I mean uh, you know uh, don't throw those books, please AHHHHH *DUCKING*
I want to add 2 more ★'s to my rating!Doing a re-read is fantastic. You don't have to read every single page to get the oh so wonderful feeling. And boy did I get that  "oh so wonderful feeling"  while re-reading this one. I adore SEP. She is truly an icon among her fellow authors of romance. I simply love her writing style, her characters, her plots. She will forever be on my favorite authors pedestal. :)*****************I am having such a great time reading this series. My first SEP book was F
My first SEP book was Fancy Pants which I really enjoyed but the Chicago Stars Series is quickly becoming my favorite of her books thus far.
Along with the humor you get a great story line, a sexy and brooding hero and a sweet and beautiful heroine with a backbone.
All of the books in this series can be read as a standalone which is also fantastic but I have decided to read them in order.
Of course my favorite moments are with Janie and Cal though.
This was such a fantastic book and I am thankful that my friend Karen continued to nudge me to start this series.
Condom sabotage. Come on girl, you're better than that. I'd understand if it was Henry Cavill, but... ugh...no....just no....no girl.  I'm shocked. Shocked I tell you. That being said, I still enjoyed this book, despite the craziness.
Phillips unites a beautiful, brainy scientist desperate to be a mom with a brawny, smoking hot jock who, though handsome enough to father her child, is nowhere near as stupid as she wants her baby’s daddy to be.  The lovely Karen is reading this series and her updates and reviews have whetted my appetite to do a re-read. Was it as good second time around? Definitely. I loved it.I loved Janie. I loved Cal. I loved Annie, the adorable Granny. “Don't mess with me, Calvin. You'll only get hurt.”
The lovely Karen is reading this series and her updates and reviews have whetted my appetite to do a re-read.
I loved it.I loved Janie.
I loved Cal. I loved Annie, the adorable Granny.
I loved you too.
One partner?-can be welled trained."He had a point.
"I was referring to the instructional videotapes my agency has all its new employees watch.""They train you by watching videos?" His eyes narrowed reminding her of a hunter looking down a gun sight,"Now, ain't that interesting."She felt a little surge of pleasure as her child lost another few points on the Iowa Test of Basic Skills.
I was smiling or laughing most of the time, and that's because it was outrageous.No, it wasn't that believable, and what the heroine did - tricked a man into impregnating her - well, that's something I could normally never forgive.
I love Kiss an Angel so much, it's actually what got me started on SEP's novels.
She had a hard, lonely childhood being so smart and she didn't want that for her child.
I didn't think I would be able to forgive her, but the thing is, Jane and Cal were hilarious together!
Somehow she creates these arrogant and bull-headed alphas who are so sweet at heart that they easily win you over.
Nobody’s Baby But Mine is the third book in the Chicago Stars series, and it’s every bit as enjoyable as the previous books.I fell in love with Jane Darlington.
He’s downright mean at times, but I had a huge soft spot in my heart for him.The mountains of North Carolina make a beautiful setting for the unfolding story.SEP has created a bevy of interesting characters, and she takes her time in developing all the relationships.
5 STARS[image error] I am going to start sounding like a broken record when it comes to Susan Elizabeth Phillips. And here I go again…. I fucking LOVED this book!!!!!!! What a shocker right? Seriously, I canNOT get enough of these fantastic books. Nobody's Baby But Mine is the third book in  The Chicago Stars  series. Although the books are written so that they can be read as stand alone, I personally recommend reading them in order. You are not going to want to miss one single moment of any of
I am going to start sounding like a broken record when it comes to Susan Elizabeth Phillips.
I fucking LOVED this book!!!!!!!
You are not going to want to miss one single moment of any of these books.
Just read them, and love them all.[image error]
Now Jane is thirty-four, she is unmarried, and her biological clock is a ticking time-bomb.
There are so many things about this book that I loved.
These two characters go head to head like the War of the Roses leaving you completely exhausted, and you will love every minute of it.
I absolutely LOVED this book!!!
I love her books.
Written March 31, 20154.7 Stars - Another great favorite in the best kind of fun and cozy romance novel by an always delivering "champion writer" in this genreAnother great and entertaining Susan Elizabeth Phillips book.
As my, right now kind of SEP bewitched friend, Karen said: “...cannot write a bad book… either that or she has most definitely found the key to my heart.”*********************************************************** Nobody's Baby But Mine is a hilarious fun story from the Chicago Stars fotball 'world'.
I listened to audiobooks, faultlessly narrated by Anna Fields: #7 - Natural Born Charmer (4.1 stars)#5 - This Heart of Mine (4 stars)~ All four hilarious fun and touching romantic contemporary romances.
In a way it was like reading her for the first time I was again amazed at what a wonderful storyteller she is.
This is my third book in the Chicago stars series and it's the story of cal and Jane."Nobody's baby but mine" was so entertaining right from the first chapter, the way Jane is obsessed about having a baby minus a husband.
But he decides to make everything right whisking Jane to the wonderful town of "salvation."Cal and Jane were an explosive couple to say the least but oh but so hilarious.
All in all it was a good read but I had too many issues to give it a full 4 stars -- but I did like it more than 3.5, so that's my reasoning for the weird 3.75 Stars.Brief Summary of the Storyline:  This is Jane and Cal's story.
They get themselves deeper and deeper in their lies to other people while developing feelings for one another and having some sexy times and some family drama...and they get a HEA ending.POV: This alternated between focusing mainly on Jane and Cal in 3rd person narrative (with a few parts focused on side characters).Overall Pace of Story: Good for the most part.
(This isn't the way genetics work, and a genius scientist like Jane ought to know that.) She doesn't want to use a sperm bank because she thinks all sperm donors are medical students, so they'd be too smart.
Anyway, it takes two tries (where Jane's lies are increasingly desperate and the sex is bad in a way that SEP intends to be comic but isn't) for her to succeed in getting pregnant.
Nevertheless, Cal's moral code requires him to be faithful even in the bonds of a fake marriage, and Jane is a weak woman, so they have plenty of sex even as they snarl and humiliate each other.
This is probably my favorite book of Susan's and I've definitely read it multiple times. The premise is actually ridiculous (smart woman wants dumb baby because she was ostracized as a kid for being brilliant so she chooses a "dumb" football player to have sex with/get pregnant). This book is hilariously funny and witty and you just fall in love with the characters. A definite go-to book whenever you want to read one of the best romances of all time.
Well, first let me start by saying that I despised the underlying plot of a pretentious physicist using a football player without his knowledge to get pregnant.
I honestly despised Jane (the pretentious physicist).
I didn't blame Calvin (the football player) one bit for getting so upset and wanting to seek revenge when he found out Jane was pregnant (and lied!).In addition to my repulse for Jane, the first few sexual encounters between the two of them felt as if I was witnessing a rape, but one that Jane sadistically forces Calvin to complete.
What a delight! This book was laugh out loud funny. Both the hero and heroine had flaws, embraced them, learned from them, and came out better in the end. Plus the side characters had me in stitches too. I am just loving the way this author writes and am binging another book by this author pronto.
If it weren't for the fact that the heroine is NOT acting like a doormat to the sexist hero, then I would have abandoned this book pronto. But thank goodness the heroine does not allow bullshit in her life and it was nice to know that sexist men can learn how to appreciate women and have a HEA. ♥

Maybe this time, I would write a suitable review.Clearly, I love this book.
Anyway, Jane neglects to pick up on his intelligence or his sense of honor, while Cal doesn't learn of her advanced age (34) until the middle of the book.
By then, the child is already conceived and the angry, but very honorable Cal forces Jane into a marriage to keep the child legitimate.
I loved Jane and Cal's interplay.
Anyway, the premise of the story is a forced pregnancy that forces a marriage that eventually forces growing up and falling in love.
♥ ♥♥ Heart warming..and heart-breaking love story. ♥ ♥ ♥LOT of great one liners and hell loads of absolute fun..and of course since its is Miss Susan's after all, uve defiantly got a bit of angst snugged in there...Especially that cookie story,..HOLY SHIT cal's parent's initial relationship defiantly broke my heart :( *snif*
SEP was on my DNR list (Do Not Read).
I read Fancy Pants in 2016 and developed a real dislike of SEP.
However, I figured it’s been two years...let’s give her another try.Dr. Jane Darlington wants a baby and needs a donor.
Jane seeks out Cal, the famous QB, and proceeds to trick him into impregnating her.
She was deceitful and she tricked a man into giving her a baby and she planned on keeping it a secret from him.
I liked Jane’s quirks and how Cal thought they were endearing, but IDK...the book just didn’t do it for me.
This book was sooo gooood in soooo many ways that it's going to take some time before I can gather my thoughts and write anything to do justice to this AWESOME MOTHER OF A BOOK!!Loved the characters.Loved the writing.Loved the banter.Loved the heartbreak.Loved the romance.I laughed my arse off.I wept for Jim and Lynne...
(and I NEVER weep reading books!!)I danced with the women...I seriously contemplated starting a vegetable garden near the Blue Mountains, hoping I'd eventually turn into a sun-kissed Amazonian goddess.And I totally, completely, unquestionably, developed a slight girl-author-crush on Sarah Elizabeth Phillips.
Her style and attention to character is my new drug.
I absolutely loved this book - In theory I should have hated it and if this was real life I would as Cal was an ar*ehole a lot of the time, but this is fiction/romance and I loved Jane, her character, her backbone and the witty/funny dialogue between them......I love Susan Elizabeth Phillips! ☺
4.5*If it weren't for my reading guru Anna, who recommended this book to me many times over the year, I probably wouldn't have read it.
The crazy plot only spiraled from here.
The hero finds out and the true enemies-lovers story starts.
The "hate" between the MCs was so entertaining, backed up with the witty banter and great characterization.
I'm always game for an awesome enemies-lovers story and this one was really well written.There was also a part in this book that made me shed a tear or two.
Pure entertainment!I loved both MCs. I never hated Jane for what she did or Cal for how badly he sometimes treated her.

4.5 STARSLOVED IT...
I had very mixed feelings about this book.Cal, is a football quarterback who loves his women young fresh and dewy.
He refuses to accept the fact that his quarterback days are dwindling and < gasp > he is aging out of his job.
An encounter with a less that scrupulous person leads her into the bed of Cal, the dim witted footballer.
After tricking him into bed, she altered the condom so she could steal his sperm.
I found the pregnancy thief so disgusting I couldn't get over that to accept the rest of the story.
A book that stops the world and time around me and keeps me glued to the story.
I honestly don't remember how many times I've read each book in this series.
I realise that I'm very biased when it comes to SEP's books, but the only thing that matters to me is that her stories always pull me in, they make me laugh and cry, sometimes forget my problems, others - remind me sharply of myself.
Trying one of SEP's books on audio has been a wonderful experience.
A must have companion for a time when one needs cheering up or just because.
This is one of my very very favorite books...one of the ones that is dogeared and spine-cracked for all the readings and rereadings I've done of it. SEP is the best there is. Which makes Nobody's Baby But Mine quite possibly the best of the best.
3/4 Stars
😩 ah, shite...Aye...I fuckin hate when this happens, I jump in eagerly with expectations and then...pufIt all goes up in smoke, unfortunately...As much as I tried to like the storyline, the portrayal of the 'main idea' rubbed me the wrong way...then the 'reasoning' with which the actions of the main characters were justified, were in fact, a total crap...*cough*I guess another saying stands true here regarding this book :  Even the smartest people do the dumbest things  Go, figure...But, inspite
😩 ah, shite...Aye...I fuckin hate when this happens, I jump in eagerly with expectations and then...pufIt all goes up in smoke, unfortunately...As much as I tried to like the storyline, the portrayal of the 'main idea' rubbed me the wrong way...then the 'reasoning' with which the actions of the main characters were justified, were in fact, a total crap...*cough*I guess another saying stands true here regarding this book :
  
    Even the smartest people do the dumbest things
  
Go, figure...But, inspite of this story being a bust, I m still gonna give another book by this author a chance
