https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/215238.Play_Dead
Loved his letter at the front of his book stating please don't start with this particular book if you haven't read any of his work before, he'll happily wait for you to come back, as he was only a young lad working in advertising and he's a tad fresh.This is his debut, and it was so cool!
This guy is good, no sorry..
I've got my own like fan club right here, but in absolute seriousness, Harlan Coben is damn good.
Go get yourself a piece of this goodness!
Oh my gosh please pardon my language but reading this book and getting to the end was like a really good orgasm :) This was Coben's first novel and it reads like his most recent.
I've never been so entranced in a novel as I was with this one.
The story was freaking fantastic.
Laura and David on their honeymoon and then David dies?!
Laura finds things out that were supposed to be hidden forever but two can't keep a secret if one is still alive threatening to reveal that secret.
Amazing freaking story.
Go freaking read this book.
Wow! This book was great - much better than I expected. Lots of twists, turns, mysteries, betrayals, and shocks. Almost everyone in this book seems suspicious at at least some point in time. Several times I thought I had it figured out, and then it blew my mind with a new revelation. I will definitely be reading more Coben in the future.
At the beginning of this book Harlan Coben apologises for it saying he wrote it when he was very young.
Well maybe he did and maybe it is not perfect but it is very, very good!
I read the whole thing over two days and it was actually unputdownable.
The main characters are very likeable, especially Laura who carries the whole book and is always smart and able to care for herself.
There is also some very entertaining stuff set in Australia.
Or if he has he saw a different Australia to the one I live in.
But that is a small thing and the book was still very good.
As a Coben fan (a person who tries to collect all of his novels), I will honestly tell you to please don’t buy this one.
Save yourself the money and just buy Tell No One or Gone For Good or any other novel of his, EXCEPT this one.
I’m really tired of hearing how beautiful the characters are in this story and I’m tired of reading novels with this kind of plot: a plot you can easily guess halfway through the book.If it’s so mediocre or close to awful, you might ask why the hell did I even finish it?
When the author himself writes a prologue asking you to please not read the book and apologizing in advance for it being completely idiotic, you know something's wrong.
Well, pretty bad and ludicrous in fact, but also fun and with a good energy to it.
I have to give props to the author for having the creativity to come up with the ludicrous plot and the guts to actuall publsh it under his own name.
The plot moves long pretty fast which made it more enjoyable and the author shows promise.
I love reading his books.
This particular book is his first ever novel and I can honestly say, that I have never read a book before that had a disclaimer in front written by the author himself.
I was glad that this disclaimer was in there because it saved me from excessive eye rolling and I felt less critical.
So that alone is the reason this was 4 stars and not 3.The importance of the characters in this story was in direct proportion to their physical beauty.
Characters with little roles, were short and stubby.
Characters with main roles were practically deity.
Mostly my fault because (A) I didn't read the author's disclaimer at the front of the book, (B) I didn't look at the original copyright date until I was more than half way through, and (C) by the time I realized my mistake, I wanted to finish it for no good reason.
I then came to Goodreads, read some of the customer reviews, and discovered the copyright date, the disclaimer, and the revelation that this was Coben's first book, written when he was in his twenties.Oh, the writing!
His newer books are more succinct, with humour and greatly improved writing style.
When I read the introduction (AFTER I had bought the book) I could have know it would be bad.
And yes, it might be interesting if you are deep, deep into the person of Coben and his development.
And yes, Mr Coben tells us all this in his preface, but who reads those things BEFORE buying?So unless you have a deep interest in Coben before he matured, don't buy this book.
And of course the publisher (and Mr Coben) wanting to make a buck out of pre-mature work better left unpublished.
Totally twisted in the best way possible.
Una historia demasiado peliculera para mi gusto. Todo demasiado exagerado para una situación que se podía solucionar con una simple prueba de ADN. Parece una película de esas domingueras 🙄
Our reading group selected this book a few months ago despite its opening disclaimer from Coben.
It does feel quite an immature work, with implausible characters and plot and yet it is possible to see that despite this that it did show promise.It is my first encounter with Harlan Coben's writing and I'm not put off by it.
I look forward to reading his later, more polished works and I am glad that he did include that disclaimer about its roughness.
If nothing else, it kept me entertained for a couple of days and despite cheesy bits was hard to put down.
Recommended & given to me by my dentist, who said this was Coben's first book & not bad.
The foreshadowing was so bad that I had everything pretty much figured out in the first 50 or so pages.
I made it up to about 100 & then started reading a paragraph every 50 pages or so to see if I was missing anything.
The writing wasn't bad, either.
I guess it really wasn't my type of book & with it being so obvious, I just couldn't work up the energy to really read it.
An excellent novel from one of my favourite writers.He writes such good original stories that have strong characters and believable plots.
You know, I didn't have very high hopes when jumping into Play Dead because first of all I read a lot of mixed reviews, and secondly it's Harlan Coben's first published book and I guess it was reissued in the late 2000's, and also for those of you who have read the book or have seen it you'll notice a note to readers that Coben wrote, that if you're just getting introduced to him or his writing style, to not start with Play Dead, which I never understood because I personally liked the book!
I'm a big fan of Coben but this is the first novel that didn't work for me. Interesting enough this was his first published novel back in the day and wasn't changed much.I got in about 40 pages and realized I was wasting my time. Too much exposition (like pages and pages at times about characters I had yet to connect with) so I stopped and that's one of the best services you can do for yourself when you have too many books and not enough time.Just stop. Nobody is going to punish you.Or will they

I am a huge fan of Harlan Coben books...
This book is not horrible but there were a lot of flaws.
It seemed like everyone was a perfect human speciman.
And we all know the real world is nothing like that.
I feel like this is a story that was told before a lot of times.
I did like the book, overall.
I will continue to be a fan of this authors work.
And I gather that this was his first book after reading a few of the reviews on here.
I keep alternating between two and three stars for this book.
The real problem that I have with this book is that the story is just so incredibly implausible.
A star basketball marries a woman he loves (who happens to be a top supermodel and incredible business woman), and then on their honeymoon find out that she's actually his sister.
Fakes his own death in Australia with the help of his police officer friend from Boston, has full plastic surgery to have his face, hair and voice changed and then ends up playing for the NBA again with the same team?!?
Then in the end it turns out that they aren't brother and sister and live happily ever after.
Novela floja, previsible... Me ha decepcionado bstante, ya que me esperaba más del autor.
Boston Celtics superstar David Baskin and ex supermodel LauraAyars have decided to get married and are on their honeymoon in Australia.
For some unknown reason David fakes his deathin a drowning accident.Laura turns to Terry Conroy or TCa Boston detective and David's best friend for help.
Months later the Celtics start their newseason with a new player who plays like David but looks nothinglike him.
From here the story goes back 30 years to somethingthat happened in Laura's family.
I think that this is oneof his best ever and I would recommend that anyone who likeshis books don't miss this one.
It came as a surprise for me because this is the first book by Harlan Coben I've read and I can safely say it is not going to be the last.
True, it may be abit confusing at first as the story kept alternating between the past and present but you will get used to it eventually.
Unfortunately, I did not managed to predict who the real murderer was (shows how clever Harlan Coben is in twisting the plot).I must say, this thriller author is officially on my to-read list of authors now.
The summary for Play Dead is reminiscent of the fantastic Gone Girl and I've never read any of Coben's work, so I thought I would give his first book a shot. Unfortunately, after 40 pages I gave up - I was just so bored I had to put it down. Sorry Mr. Coben, I tried, but you're just not for me.
I got this book from the store book exchange at the store I have coffee at. I enjoyed reading it. It had a good story to it. I liked the variety of characters in it. I hope to read more books by this author.
It took me a very long time to finish it but the story was so pretentious. ain't like it that much :S
I've been saving this, having read all the other Cobens we have.
Two more Xmases have passed and I now had 3 unread Coben books.
Harlan Coben is a great writer, who I've greatly enjoyed reading.
This is a fascinating book in that it is so bad.
This coveted spot was claimed by another car before Stan had managed to unlock the door and get in.
This could have been a great 200 page book.
While the prose here is terrible, the plot is really good (turns out Coben always had that skill) and the gradual reveal keeps you hanging in there page after page, after page, after page.
It's cheesy, corny and written almost entirely in hyperboles.
See what I mean about hyperboles.
But it is entertaining enough and good for a laugh (as is the case with young Clooney's mullet) and for a fan of Coben's books such as myself it was just interesting to have the opportunity to observe the evolution of the author.
Make sure this isn't the first Coben you read and not the book you'll base your opinion of the author on.
When it comes to his earlier works though, like his debut novel "Play dead", which was first published 26 years ago (1990), it hasn't always been easy to lay hands on them.
True, one does notice this is a young Coben who wrote the book, but the quality is still remarkably high.For those interested: the story's about a young successful couple David (famous basketball player) and Laura (model + owner of her own fashion label) elopes to Australia to get married and spend their honeymoon.
Laura, stubborn as she is, is determined to find out the truth behind David's accident and the outcome is;… breathtaking.Still very much in love with Coben's books!
Harlan Coben is fast becoming one of my most favorite authors.
He is so in touch with people's emotions and is able to put them down on paper so you can really feel them.Laura and David Baskin are very much in love and enjoying their honeymoon on the coast of Australia, when David goes for a swim and drowns.Laura is devastated.
She has no idea that David's death is linked to a series of events that took place more than thirty years previously, but when she discovers one of David's bank accounts has been compromised she becomes curious.Her curiosity leads her down a dizzy, dangerous and completely unanticipated path.
If you didn't know this was Harlan's first book from the note from the author in the reprint then you'd know from reading it. It's not bad but you can definitely tell he's grown and learned a lot.Same page turning plot Harlan is famous for, though a little far fetched. It's the characters that are lacking. The dream couple are the most perfect people who have ever walked the earth since Jesus Christ. The villain is unexpected but overly simple. But even with its flaws PLAY DEAD is still better than most thriller novels.
Coben has come a long way from this book (published in 1990). His current books are tight, less wordy, and develop the story line with alacrity. Play Dead read more like a soap opera with way-too-attractive and flat stereotypical main characters. I don't fault Coben for this book, but I do think his editors needed to help him tighten up this text. I didn't finish this book, but I will continue to read others of his. He is a true entertainer.(Sorry Harlan Coben!!!!)
