https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/243381.Berlin_Alexanderplatz
And what could you possibly expect of Biberkopf then, not being a better man?
Or passable?And Martin Amis: I all of a sudden realise that you did not only steal the plot from lovely Muriel Spark's The Driver's Seat, you stole the main character from Berlin Alexanderplatz, and just dressed it up and made it bigger, and changed some Kneipes into English pubs!
And Sparks' Lise would not have hesitated one single moment to grab hold of London or Berlin if she had needed either one of those cities to find her criminal!I wish I had thought of Biberkopf when I read London Fields.
2016 Book I was Most Afraid To Hate I just don't have it in me ! I dipped into this book for two months and only got to 13 %.I cannot do it. I immensely dislike this book despite it being a modern classic. I am going to cut my losses and consider it my Infinite Jest of 2016.
The irony of that feeling when you seem to be inside a prison when in fact you are living free in an outside world is very evident.I think this book deserves a 5-star rating.
The characters are mouthing their innermost thoughts and since it was Berlin at the time of Hitler's rise, some of what they were saying could cause their lives or reveal what they really think about their religion as told in the Bible.
Also, if you want to know how was it to live in Alexanderplatz (downtown Berlin) in the 1920s, this book is for you.
1997 was a rushing tide of hefty novels sweeping under to revel in their wake: most of Pynchon and the Grass Danzig troika are dated here.
Doblin's feat is an episodic steamroller, the estranged reader is as tethered as anyone by the mechanized operations of the strange, new Berlin.
(Brave New Bono, Beware)I returned to the novel a few years ago after viewing the Fassbinder film.
Doblin's novel remains a formidable feat.
A few of my friends have recently made mediocre efforts.
Looking aghast, I shook my head with the resignation of Arsene Wenger: even while Nietzsche was taking swings at folks at the asylum, he still valued a mazurka.
Εκ πρώτης όψεως δεν φαίνεται πουθενά αυτό το μεγαλείο, παρά μόνο με υπομονή και διαφορετική αντίληψη της έννοιας του μυθιστορήματος.
Η εμπειρία του κοινοβουλευτισμού είναι πολύ φρέσκια και όσο η χώρα οδεύει προς την παγκόσμια οικονομική κρίση του 1929 και φυσικά δυσκολεύεται να αποπληρώσει τις αποζημιώσεις του Α’ Παγκοσμίου Πολέμου, η κατάσταση είναι αρκετά άσχημη, έτοιμη να παρεκτραπεί.Ο ήρωας του βιβλίου, ένας άνθρωπος που μόλις αποφυλακίζεται προσπαθεί να σταθεί στα πόδια του.
Τα καταφέρνει για λίγο διάστημα, χάνει όμως τον έλεγχο και όλα αλλάζουν.
Το δίδαγμα είναι το εξής: όταν ο άνθρωπος δέχεται τα χτυπήματα της ζωής, όσο δυνατός κι αν είναι, κάποια στιγμή καταρρέει .
Κάτι που κράτησα εγώ: «Ο εθνικισμός είναι η θρησκεία του σύγχρονου κράτους».
you get the impression that döblin > joyce for schmidt.
döblin weren't no one=hit wonder but by the way he seems to have been treated, you'd never know.
ba gets itself 5077 gr=readers and the next famous one, die ermorderung usw, 125.
and what i thought was his famous one (even gifted it, unknowing, to my mother once), a people betrayed, gets 40 gr=readers (i'm among the guilty).
but if you must know, a highlight of my reading year.
it's like it was with the aeneid when i read it a few years ago.
so read your homer and virgil and your joyce and your döblin.
More like Dostoevsky, maybe, but with lots of modernist techniques -- shifting POVs (often from sentence to sentence), shifting tenses; inclusion of statistics, weather reports, police blotters; no hard returns in long stretches of dialogue so all the quotations/voices run together in really dense oft-confusing paragraphs; no-transition interspersal of biblical stories (Abraham's sacrifice of Isaac; Job's trials) into otherwise realist scenes; excellent dialogues between angels responsible for Franz; appearance of the seven-headed Whore of Babylon and Death; a great section very much like in Atomik Aztex (which also lacked hard returns in stretches of dialogue) relating a lamb's last moments in a slaughterhouse -- all of which nicely complicates what's otherwise a straight-up realist tale about a sad sack trying to do right and live a decent life.
[I read the Michael Hofmann translation from NYRB, but in an afterword Hofmann is very respectful of Jolas’s translation, so you’re probably fine either way.]In a Berlin tavern:But Franz is reluctant, he says he doesn’t like these political discussions.
I will focus on the victimhood and political aspects, although I would also emphasize the powerful sense of life in Berlin that Döblin builds from snippets of playbills, newspaper stories, transportation scenes, etc etc.
Döblin seems to think that a smarter Franz would only have ended up a successful criminal, not an honest man.
The version I read was the only one my library has and was copyrighted in 1931 and noted as “Translated into the American by Eugene Jolas.” There is a 2005 edition, but I'm unable to determine if it's a new translation.
It must be a terribly difficult book to translate, and in the 1931 edition some of the seams showed, as the translator used American slang which is no longer current.Still it was a riveting read.
It’s the year 1928 and the place is Berlin.Biberkopf wants to lead a decent life from now on.
Not surprisingly there were some harsh criticism from first-time readers of the Frankfurter Zeitung (the newspaper in which the novel was serialized first between September and October 1929).
It’s actually a case that could be called tragic.Early on in the novel there’s a description of the Berlin slaughterhouses, one of the strongest scenes in the whole book.
And it’s not often clear who is talking to us; the narrator, or Biberkopf, or someone else.
Ocarana, u svakom smislu.
This book is so good. It's like if Dos Passos decided to do USA with one character, and set it in Berlin, and to write sort of in the style of Joyce but also realize that he needed some German so threw in a bunch of devices from Brecht, and then from the future Chris Adrian decided to pay a visit and tweak parts of the story from out of nowhere. A great reminder that Modernism can be so much fun.
"ratlaplão-plão-plão."Diacho d'livro! grrr...Cheguei a meio e nem sou capaz de desistir dele, nem de continuar a lê-lo. zzzzzzzz...Então então o melhor é encostá-lo...tentar ver a série de Fassbinder e depois recomeçar. Aguenta aí, Franzinho Biberkopfzinho, que vou até outra guerra e já volto..."ratlaplão-plão-plão."
Somehow, Doblin gets us to root for this failure who we don't even like that much, and somehow even though he fails us time and time again, we still hold out hope for him.Weaving in and out of the narrative is the city itself, the place that Berlin Alexanderplatz (the book) is named for, the hustle and bustle and the sense of the place overwhelming the individual in all its multiplicities of voice, commerce, myth, and noise.
تاريخ القراءة الأصلي : ٢٠١٣إحدى العلامات المهمة في الرواية الحداثية الألمانية، ولكنك تشعر بأن روح دوستويفسكي تحلق فوق هذه الرواية. وبعيدا عن الصور المعتادة عن الشخصية الألمانية، نرى هنا جانب أكثر انسانية..ربما لأن زمن الرواية يقع بين الحربين العالمتين..عندما كانت الروح الألمانية متعبة ومنهكة وحائرة
The white zone is for loading and unloading only.If ya gotta load or unload, go to the white zone.You'll love it.It's a way of life.
Döblin himself:If a novel can’t be cut up into ten pieces like an earthworm, every part still moving, then it’s good for nothing.Of course he’s the sort of person that utters sentences like this after writing a book like Berlin Alexanderplatz, which actually conforms to his statement insofar as it can be opened on any page without losing the thread of the story.
And yet the novel is worth reading alone for its encyclopaedic knowledge of everything unimportant and vulgar (and of course also for its minute depiction of a long-forgotten Berlin), 1920s reality TV at its best, really.
Per comprendere la vita e la psicologia di Franz è necessario cogliere con pazienza indizi e spunti dispersi nel romanzo e poi mettere insieme alla fine le varie tessere, come in un puzzle.Döblin ci scaraventa dentro ai bassifondi della Berlino del primo dopoguerra, dei diseredati e dei delinquenti, dove rubare, ubriacarsi e prostituirsi sembra essere la cosa più naturale del mondo.Ci sono alcuni aspetti del romanzo che si possono dire innovativi o comunque diversi rispetto ai romanzi (chiamiamoli ottocenteschi) che erano stati scritti prima:1) la città e il rapporto con i suoi abitanti.
Couple that with the fact that our hero Franz Biberkopf really seemed more like the above quoted sow than a thoughtful human being.
We see both the good and the bad of the constant pounding of modern technology on the city streets.Dealing primarily with the dance between fate and personal responsibility, there's clearly a lot being said about what was going on in Döblin's Weimar Germany.
This book came out in 1929 and Döblin clearly saw where his country was headed.
I found out about this book, like many English speaking Americans, from its mention in 2666.
Doblin is mentioned a lot, both as a favorite author of Archimboldi and as having a big influence on Bolano himself.
Of all the books I've read based on Bolano's recommendation, I can't name another one with the kind of influence that Alexanderplatz has.
one doesn't just ape narrative cadence from a book like this.
There were times when reading this book felt like a kind of Devil worship.Where is Doblin coming from with this book?
It simply doesn't get better than this.
Ο Γερμανός Οδυσσέας Μπλουμ, Φραντς Μπίμπερκοπφ, σε ένα ψηφιδωτό καθημερινότητας με παραστάσεις από τις ψηλότερες κορυφές ως τα σουρσιματα του, σε μία επωδό του μεγάλου Τσινγκ νταραντα της ζωής. Βιβλικό, με ρομφαιες, άμαξες και Δρεπανοφόρους τυμπανιστές/θυσιαστες.... Ποιος μπορεί να πει καλύτερα την ιστορία της Ζωής και του Πάθους, από έναν πρώην δολοφόνο, διαρρήκτη και προαγωγό??
Until a few months ago I'd never heard of this novel or of Doblin.
When I learned Berlin Alexanderplatz is a technical first cousin to Joyce's Ulysses I became very interested.
In presenting a picture of Weimar-era Berlin through the character of one man, Franz Biberkopf, using elements of stream of consciousness, mythology and Biblical and metaphysical references, he wrote a very impressive novel.
As I say, until a few months ago I'd never heard of this novel.
Reading the novel has enhanced my understanding of the film, as incomplete as my appreciation may be.
The French and the English translations dropped some convoluted passages as well, as long as they did not concern the plot in any way (and, as I said, Döblin did insert a great lot of scenes and short novellas not related to bieberkopf at all)ADAPTATIONSDöblin was convinced that literature, in general, was moribund and believed his book was better fit for cinema and radio.
Y, tal vez, me equivoqué: no tenía algo...tenía, tal vez, demasiado.Alfred Döblin, escritor del que nada sabía hasta leer esta novela, fue un médico polaco que supo dedicarle una buena parte de sus páginas a la ciudad en la que vivió por varios años: Berlín.
Considerada como la novela que mejor ha retratado el paisaje de dicha ciudad, Döblin desarrolla la vida de Franz Biberkopf, un miserable que ha ido a prisión por haber matado a Ida, su ex-esposa.
En este sentido, me atrevería a decir que esta novela es una parábola de la soledad del hombre en las grandes ciudades.
Döblin's vision is fatalistic & coming from the Germany of late 1920s, who could really blame him as there's really nothing to cheer about: it's a Berlin of profiteers, thieves & prostitutes, with the middle & lower-middle class barely scraping through.Taking a Greek view of tragedy i.e. Destiny is character, the book follows a predictable script & the protagonist goes from one mishap to another like a lamb to the slaughter.
Indeed I was intrigued by the title, by the fact that I know quite well the place itself - I mean, the square - having spent a month close to it in formerly East Berlin.But as soon as I've understood I've found a German version of James Joyce instead of the book I've been expecting for I've had a lot of difficulties in going on.Page after page it has became a torture.
Nevertheless, I ask for something easier to read, even with a less wellcrafted title.
The idea is about a guy who serially passes off his girlfriends to a buddy after he tires of them.
I first came across it in the astounding 'Berlin Alexanderplatz' (one of the most original books I've ever come across), and then again in 'The Three Stigmata of Palmer Eldritch'.
In 'Stigmata', it's nothing more than Dick's typical contempt for women.The hero-adventure model is turned on its head in Berlin Alexanderplatz, where a bad man who is attempting to live a normal, if bad, life, is continually challenged by things getting worse and worse and worse despite all his feeble efforts.
Finally finally finally this book is back in print in English.
It's been like forty years.
This is a serious big deal.
Hofmann's englished Doblin Alfredxanderplatz by Alex Berlin, close enough, a 1929 spazmasterpiece of german prose fiction, is, to my ear, to them both, bell-ringingly reminiscent not of Yames Yoyce, nope no, but rather the'nglish of Tommy P in the more hyper-hysterical passages of G's Rain B.
It's like being slapped silly not once not twice but for an afternoon, just bap bap bap bap bap bap and so on.
Vivre la Franz
