https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/802905.Workers_Councils
An amazingly uplifting and intensive look at workers' control of the means of production from a left-socialist/anarcho-syndicalist perspective. (ie. no bosses, no masters; worker control, direct democracy, consensus.) I highly recommend this book if you hate your job and/or are wondering why you labor, for whom, and for what.
He especially focuses on bookkeeping and how thorough (and public) it must be in order for workers to be able to make decisions based on real facts facing their production.Underlying this book is Pannekoek warning against all forms of authority that might hinder worker control of factories (including socialism which still just puts the means of production in the hands of another ruling class).
Perhaps it's the Marxist in Pannekoek that prevents him from writing a completely unbiased book (especially when it comes to the Bolsheviks), which is a bit frustrating when reading the second half of Worker's Councils.
We can see in the historic example of Russia that even after the Communist Revolution, the workers in Russia remained "a subject and exploited class, living mostly in miserable working conditions, under a strong and oppressive dictatorial rule, without freedom of speech, of press, of association, more strongly enslaved than their brethren under Western Capitalism" (81-82)."By the power of the unions capitalism is normalized" (59).
Not the workers forming organizations to negotiate with capitalists nor handing over control to another ruling class, different only in name, but the workers themselves managing production.
Workers councils are seen more than just an administrative part of production but constitute the essence of societal organization and interaction on bot a political and economic level.
Much of the book, half, is spent on this state by state look at the forms of capital and of various doctrines and their evolution such as fascism and liberalism.
However, there is a lack of detail and depth sometimes when actually talking about forms of organization or how would the workers go about doing this or a more in depth look at previous cases of this such as Anarchist Catalonia.
Amazing book! It gives historical, theoretical, and fictional insight. As Howard Zinn puts it "it should be read by all people who want to think beyond capitalism, bureaucratic socialism, and opportunistic trade unionism, to the idea of direct democracy in the production and distribution of our societies enormous wealth".
In the first chapter Panekoek presents a critique of capitalism and explains his proposed alternative: workers' self-management. Nothing new for us, but in 1946 this was an exciting new perspective on radical politics. The remaining of the book is pretty much useless. His reflections on WW2 and post-war politics are specially irrelevant today, well, except if you are an historian or something like that.
Finally picked up a copy of this while perusing Red Emma's.
