https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/37200.Anybody_Can_Do_Anything
(Thank you paperbackswap!)This covers the period in Betty MacDonald’s life that falls between The Egg and I and The Plague and I, and takes place during the 1930s.
It’s funny like all of MacDonald’s books, and also very cozy.
This was warm, funny and charming.
When I emigrated, we put books in boxes for friends to post to us, serious literature, Czech or translations from other languages than English- we knew the English language books will be available in England or USA where we were going to emigrate.But picking one book to take with me for that stressful uncertain journey to emigration, I took a collewction of 3 of her books.
This one and the other twoThe Plague and I Onions in the StewIt was the right choice.
MacDonald has a wonderfully clear and vivid writing style, and her material - the experience of being a single mother in the 1930s - was full of interest for this reader.
After her divorce from the chicken farmer, MacDonald moved back into her family home in Seattle.
Throughout the book, MacDonald portrays herself as the shyer, less competent sidekick to her older, more vibrant sister Mary.
To hear MacDonald tell it, Mary singlehandedly propels their entire family through the Depression years through a combination of self-confidence, moxie and sheer nerve.
Some of her stories remind me of the stories that my grandmother used to tell of her own Depression-era childhood in Ft. Worth.
Of all Betty MacDonald's comic memoirs, Anybody Can Do Anything is perhaps the most unfocused.
The book takes on the years after those chronicled in The Egg and I, as MacDonald fled that unhappy marriage to make a life for herself in the bosom of her family with two young daughters in tow.
It's tough not to be a touch cynical about the book's concluding chapters, which read very much like promotional material for her older sister's first memoir that came out roughly at the same time, and from the same publisher.Still, though the material's somewhat scattershot, Anybody Can Do Anything is an engaging delight.
When you're looking for work (and as a freelance writer, that's nearly 90% of the time), you need to stay positive.
It's her account of scrounging for work during the Depression, when she was newly divorced with 2 kids (in 1929, no less!) and went back home to Seattle to live with her wonderfully large, zany family.All of Betty's books -- including The Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle series -- hold a special place in my heart.
She was a woman ahead of her time...sort of a combination between Erma Bombeck and Roseanne.
Don't read her books in public if you're embarrassed by laughing aloud.
Betty mac Donald nous emmène découvrir l'atmosphère des années 30 quand la fameuse crise économique dominante les vie quotidienne des américains .
Cette époque caractérisait par la rareté des offres d'emploi, betty décrocha un emploi grâce sa soeur marry qui prenait en mains toute la famille.
Betty vivait sous l'ombre de Marry qui est convaincue que n'importe qui peut faire n'importe quoi .betty se déplaça d'un poste à un autre sans difficulté grâce à sa soeur marry qui se remit à la recherche d'elle et finit par obtenir une entrevue pour elle .
Grâce à Marry, elle avait touché jusqu'ici des salaires microscopiques dans plusieurs postes différents et diversifié ses expériences
I'm surprised this isn't already in my list, as I've read this several times.
I don't know whether, had I known her, we would have been friends--I'm not certain I would have trusted her, and she probably would have found me dull.
Nonetheless, I admire her writing, I am fascinated by her descriptions of people and places, and in this book I get the bonus of reading her experiences in Depression Era Seattle.My favorite of her books is Onions in the Stew, I think; The Plague and I, her book about having TB, is also a fascinating look at life in a sanitorium.
Even though this was a hard time, Betty MacDonald shares this part of her life with the perfect slice of humor that had me laughing out loud.
She was just fun to learn about.Anybody Can Do Anything is narrated by Heather Henderson.
Betty MacDonald wrote with such humor that I found myself laughing out loud many times.
Not only is Ms. MacDonald a funny and witty writer she is also just plain entertaining and with Heather Henderson’s narration added makes this amazing read/listen.Story – 4 starsPerformance – 5 starsOverall – 4.5 starsI received this audiobook as part of my participation in a blog tour with Audiobookworm Promotions.
I loved the Mrs. Piggle Wiggle books growing up, and my kids have loved them, too.
Her older sister Mary was always getting strange jobs for family members and reminding them that "anybody can do anything."I think what I liked most about this book was the funny descriptions of people.
Here's an example: "Clara, a little blonde dressed in yellow, was so sallow, so narrow and so flat she looked like a wax bean but she was sweet and very anxious for us all to have a good time.
It gave his conversation a static sound like the Morse code.
Audio Book Review (listened at 1.25x) Anybody Can Do Anything is the third of Betty MacDonald's memoirs (and the second I've listened to), and it doesn't disappoint.
"Life was as neatly folded and full of promise as the morning newspaper."The aptly titled Anybody Can Do Anything is all about MacDonald's (and certainly her sister's) perseverance through one hurdle after another and especially applying for jobs even when completely unqualified for them.
Betty's older sister Mary is as main a character in the book as Betty.
She got Betty into some scary situations but Betty is always able to put a spin on it and makes most things funny, anywhere from a chuckle to laugh out loud funny.The narrator, Heather Henderson, has a pleasant voice and I enjoyed listening to her.
She has narrated all of the books by Betty MacDonald that I've listened to and it was nice to associate her voice with Betty's stories.I definitely recommend Anybody Can Do Anything if you enjoy a good story and I am looking forward to listening to Onions in the Stew by Betty MacDonald in the near future.
As with all of Betty's autobiographies, this book is full of haphazard stories and a witty perspective that portray an otherwise gloomy existence into a beaming and hilarious lesson on attitude.Some side thoughts: This may be of particular interest for anyone looking to find cultural or historical insight into the past.
In other words, you can see what Betty and her sister thought about skirt chasers at work before anyone termed the phrase sexual harassment.Also, this book, last I checked, was still out of print.
Most of Betty's autobiographies are and therefore expensive.
Betty MacDonald part 3For some reason I thought this was going to be about her battle with depression (especially after spending a year in the tuberculosis hospital) - today I realized it was about her adventures getting and keeping a job during the Depression - I'm half way through the book and was wondering when she was going to start writing about being depressed, she seems so happy!!
:) I try not to read the summaries because they can ruin the book, I guess they come in handy sometimes!Not as interesting as her book about tb, but still entertaining to read about all of the wacky people she worked for during the Depression.
Found a copy of this at the British heart foundation store in Clapham junction and was going to get it based on the cute retro cover alone but then realised it was written by the same lady who wrote mrs piggle wiggle, which I LOVED as a child.
This was a perfect #funemployment read and I laughed out loud AT LEAST SEVERAL times!
Also kept wondering why she hasn't been rediscovered by funny lady writers of today - her observations of little things and descriptions just killed me and i have a feeling others would feel similarly had they the chance to read this, too!
Betty MacDonald is the author of "The Egg and I" and this book continues where that one leaves off.
Still in the Pacific Northwest, Betty leaves her unhappy marriage and chicken farm to move in with her Mother and siblings still at home in Seattle.
These are her hilarious adventures of finding work during the depression.
They're hilarious because her sister is constantly signing her up for jobs or throwing her into projects that Betty has no previous experience for and the results are amusing.
A pretty fast read and very entertaining.
I'm looking forward to "The Plague and I" and "Onions in the Stew."
Familiar to readers from The Egg and I and the Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle books, Betty MacDonald chronicles her years in Depression Era Seattle, living with her two children in her mother's home with siblings, including a sister who continually found her jobs for which she wasn't exactly qualified. The memoir is full of amusing anecdotes, written in her breezy style; characters are quirky; the tone is humorous (sometimes outrageously so) and heartwarming. Heather Henderson reads at a brisk pace and captures characters, humor, and the upbeat tone.
I am a big fan of Betty MacDonald and was glad to be able to find a copy of Anybody Can Do Anything which was one of her adult books that I haven't read. Betty relates her experiences trying to get and keep a job during the depression after she left her husband. Her and her two daughters moved into her mother's house already filled with unemployed siblings and her sister Mary did everything she could to help Betty with her unemployment status. Betty's humor shines through these stories even though life was very hard for her and her family.
The right book at the right time. The woman behind Ma & Pa Kettle is more than just a failed farmer; she's a failed receptionist, a failed secretary, a failed photography tinter, etc., mostly buoyed by her sister's unending (and often unwanted) help. It's a nice description of Depression-era Seattle (though I could've done without the gratuitous drunken Indian anecdote and the half dozen references to white slavery), and good motivation for those still struggling to find their calling in tough times. The final sentence is a killer.
I'm not sure if I would love having a sister like Mary, or if I would want to strangle her. Whatever camp you fall into, you're sure to love the adventures of the Bard sisters in this family story. It's the Depression and the unemployment rate is 25%. Can Mary keep herself and all of her sisters employed? Read to find out.
"I wanted some sort of very steady job with a salary, and duties mediocre enough to be congruent with my mediocre ability. I had in mind a combination of janitress, slow typist and file clerk. Not for a moment did Mary entertain any such humble ideas. She had in mind for me any job up to and including the President of the United States."
This is a bizarre story. I have zero memory of adding this book to my Kindle or why I would think I would find this interesting. But I can NOT stop reading it. There are other volumes in this woman's memoirs? I don't know that I would find those as interesting if they don't include her older sister who I find hilarious.
This was an enjoyable read, a first-hand account of life in Seattle during the Depression. I was quite interested in the descriptions of a grimmer city during the '30s and also how Betty's family not only survived but thrived.
Apparently not her most popular book, but I enjoyed it quite a bit. The focus on the relationship with her sister whose motto gives the book its title is wonderfully entertaining.
The best of this author and a tale for our times.
This book is set after her tales of the chicken farm (captured in The Egg and I) and covers her various job fiascoes before and after her stint in a tuberculosis sanatorium (as told in The Plague and I).Betty is the second oldest child in a family of 4 daughters and 1 son.
For me, these were cute, quaint stories but didn’t interest me nearly as much as her other two books.The book then skips ahead several years to directly after Betty’s failed marriage and her coming home from the chicken farm to live with her mom and siblings, bringing her two toddling daughters.
Such a funny author!
Anyone who has read my blog recently will know I am a convert and huge fan of Betty books.
I listened to this on audiobook so probably confused a few members of the public when I suddenly began laughing for no apparent reason!This time Betty has returned to the family home following her divorce *scandal* accompanied by her kids.
Her sister Mary decides she will assist matters and coach Betty in all areas of work and find her a suitable job.
Mary happens to know a lot of people which is fortunate considering how haphazard Betty can be ..
Furthermore, the narration is well paced with good intonation and the production is of high quality meaning that it is easy to listen to and great for the daily commute.The book begins with Betty leaving behind her married life on a farm to return to her family's home where she is encouraged by her sister to seek employment in the clerical field, which she is in no way qualified for, and follows her journey from job to job whilst finding herself in all manner of unfortunate circumstances.This is the second book of Betty MacDonald, narrated by Heather Henderson, that I have listened to and I have found both to be fantastic - I will definitely be buying the remaining books in the series!I received this audiobook as part of my participation in a blog tour with Audiobookworm Promotions.
The tour is being sponsored by Post Hypnotic Press, Inc. The gifting of this audiobook did not affect my opinion of it.
Betty Macdonald (author of the Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle books) humorously remembers the days when she was a divorced mother of two, living with her mother and sisters in Seattle, during the Depression.
The title comes from the positive attitude of Betty's sister, Mary, who believed that Anybody (especially Betty) Can Do Anything.
Mary spends her time finding jobs and vocations for her sisters (especially Betty), and Betty often winds up in uncomfortable, and sometimes dangerous, work situations.
My only discomfort with the book comes from Macdonald's descriptions of the physical features of people, which are usually not very flattering.
Magnificent read - this book will have you exhilarated with laughter before you're done.
Betty MacDonald writes about life in 1929-1930's in San Francisco - how there was always coffee on, but not much else.
Families going to neighborhood recitals for an evening's entertainment - and having to creep out the back way because they were howling with laughter at the finished production.
Betty makes every one of us feel like her best friend and like we could do anything too - given enough nerve and our own sister "Mary", like she had.
