https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24485589-hunted
“She wept because she did not know what she wanted, and because she wanted everything.” 4 1/2 stars. Wow, this was... unexpected. I got an arc of Hunted from edelweiss months ago. After putting it off again and again for other books, I decided to let it expire. Seriously, who even needs another Beauty & the Beast retelling? Then this book was given to me as a gift and *resigned sigh* I decided to just give it a shot. And I'm so glad I did.Cruel Beauty is still my favourite Beauty & the
Seriously, who even needs another Beauty & the Beast retelling?
Full of icy coldness, the language of fairy tales, and underneath, a running theme of that inexplicable longing for something you can't quite put your finger on.
A beast that is following him.
Not just a beast, but a whole world of fantastical creatures that seem to play by a different set of rules.
But Yeva knows these rules; they're the rules of the fairy tales her father always read to her.
The rule of breaking them.Yeva is determined to kill the beast and return to her family.
Inches from her face was a nightmarish visage, snarling fangs and red-gold eyes. She screamed, every muscle going rigid as she tried to struggle free, but claws dug into her skin on all sides, giving her no room to move. She stretched out with one arm anyway, ignoring the tearing pain of it, fingers brushing the hilt of her fletching knife.“YOU GAVE US YOUR WORD.” The voice was almost unrecognizable, the roar tangible against her face as the teeth flashed in the firelight. The claws tightened,
Some of the (welcome) difference in the book is that Gaston (Solmir) is actually a really nice guy (I was rooting for him!) and Belle (Yeva)'s sisters are really nice (again, a welcome change)Yeva, her sisters, and father live together with their widowed father, leading a comfortable life.
With her father gone, Yeva wanders back into the forest to hunt, reveling in the freedom, until she is captured and chained by the Beast.
She hadn’t tracked her father and discovered him dead, only to die herself the captive of a Beast.She knew now why she was here.
4.5*I really really enjoyed this! I normally like my fantasy books to have a lot of action and this one definitely lacked that but it worked really well because it read exactly like a fairy tale, which is perfect as this is a Beauty and the Beast retelling. This one stuck a bit closer to the Disney version/original fairy tale than others I have read while also taking a unique spin on it which I thought was very neat. Overall an awesome retelling! *ARC provided for review by Indigo Books & Music Inc. as I am an Indigo employee*
Tale as old as time... Except.Yeah, this is not that Beauty and the Beast.This Beauty is a bit less sing-y and a bit more...stabby. Which is a pretty nice change of pace, to be honest! Plus, this time around, it isn't the villagers who are out to kill the Beast, it's Beauty, herself. She's a hunter. A badass hunter. And because  {insert spoilery reasons here}  she's on a mission to take a chunk out of his supernatural hide. Of course, killing him means she's gotta stay on as his Guest prisoner
Plus, this time around, it isn't the villagers who are out to kill the Beast, it's Beauty, herself.
Yeah.But Beauty sure does take her sweet ass time getting back to the castle to try to break the spell.
In fact, she takes so much time that {spoilery shit happens}!Oh my god!
Do they ever get to do that fancy twirly dance in the ballroom?!Ok, this was a lovely romance, but the goal of this tale isn't that your life will be complete when you find your prince (or princess).
Life just...is.
{insert that thing you think will make you happy here}
Beauty aka Dummy: I am so wild, I don’t want to be a gentle lady, give me bow and arrows and I’ll run about happily shooting the poor creatures in the forest.
I am your friend, please show me your pretty pretty face.Voice behind the door: Norrrr!*takes off the blindfold anyway*Beauty aka Dummy: *gasp* it’s you the Beast who kidnapped and dragged me and chained me in this stinky dungeon!!Beast aka Gothic lunatic: Finally you Dummy added two and two!
You’ll be a master BDSM when I am done with you.Beauty aka Dummy: What?Beast aka Gothic lunatic: Get up or I’ll kill you.
Umm pretty sure Beauty & the Beast + Russian folk tales (mostly "Tsarevitch Ivan, the Firebird and the Gray Wolf") is the most genius mix I never knew I needed.
It was nice that the author addressed those topics instead of trying to dance around everything and pretend it's a totally normal situation at the very least.And I was so, so grateful that Beauty's two sisters weren't the petty, cruel characters from the original story.
I'm getting sick of reading about constant girl hate, so that was just a nice change.And I'm not sure why the title says "Hunted #1" like this is part of a series because this story totally ended.
I grew up with Beauty and the Beast and I just hold it in such a high regard so it's hard for me to love retellings unless they are as emotionally connected as the first.The story starts off SOOOO slow.
One thing I did love right off the bat was Beauty's connection to her family.
But she's all like "Oh hey I'll leave tomorrow it's fine." That literally happened about 10 times and next thing you know, it's months later.
BUT the one thing I did love was how the story with her sisters wrapped up.
REVIEW TO COME TODAY. Me : *sighs* Person : are you okay?Me : yeah, I'm just disappointed. Me : *facepalm*  And as Yeva scanned the walls, each one lined with shelves and each one full of leather-bound books, at least a hundred books, more than sheknew existed in one place, she felt her heart might simply burst.   I truly don't know why I didn't really like this book. Maybe it's because I was in reading slump while reading it ? or maybe it was just the book that wasn't really interesting ? the
this drama is so fucking unnecessary and I hate it so much when a romance involves with a guy and two girls but the two girls are sisters.I don't know whether Solmir loves Yeva or not at the beginning of the story but I am sure that he has feelings for her at the beginning of the story, for he proposes her and then when Yeva goes into the woods and she doesn't come back for almost a year because she is held captive by the beast and when she comes back, Yeva realizes something is wrong with Solmir and that is because he has fallen in love with Asenka and he even asked Asenka to marry him, months ago, when they believed Yeva was died but Asenka refused the proposal because she knew Yeva was alive and she would come back and Asenka wouldn't betray her sister and after that Solmir and Yeva broke their promises and then Asenka and Solmir end up together in the end because they love each other.
A wolf and a man. A woman and a dragon. Hunter and hunted. Nothing in this world has only one nature. This is a slightly obscure, yet wonderfully so, retelling of ‘‘Beauty and the Beast,’’ my preferred fairytale of all existing ones.Yeva is a huntress. She loves it. She loves the feel of finding prey and hunting it. She is her father’s daughter. But her sisters do not understand her love of hunting, and when it’s time to choose a husband, who will accept her as she is? Who will share her unconv
Leaving the man who loves her with the entirety of his heart, or so he claims, to care for her two sisters, she goes after her father.And encounters the Beast.The story progresses with slowness, but its elegant writing will make it that you will enjoy every second of it.
Regardless, she stands her own and tries to do what she thinks is right with determinacy.When I speak of ‘‘new elements,’’ I am mainly referring to the Russian fairytale ‘‘Ivan, the Firebird and the Gray Wolf,’’ which is weaved into the story.
It manages to stick to the original story while having an extremely unique and beautiful twist to it by adding in Russian fairy tale and folklore into the main plot.Just giving you a prior head up here this doesn’t stick to Disney Movie kind of beauty and beastSO TRUST ME,,there are no talking teacups/ any household item here:
Meagan Spooner manages to weave together these folklore into the tale and it was so beautiful OMG i'm in love.f) Beast & YevaTHEY WERE SO ADORABLE.
This was amazing and everyone needs to read this!!Pre-reading:NEEDLESS TO SAY, i have a lot of love in my heart for this story
Spooner takes inspiration from that and weaves darkness and light together into a tapestry of memorable moments that stand apart from the original in a lot of ways, but are respectful to it all the same.
Of course, when she inevitably does become involved in the romantic aspects of the story that we all know and love, it's on her own terms and is entirely her own motivation.
His journey is just as important as the one that Yeva takes, and I particularly enjoyed some of the most pivotal moments involving his character, especially in the final act of the book.
This was a BR with:the potato DJ Khaled Solohoe (I'm exposing you traitor)OH WHY YES, A BUDDY READ THAT ACTUALLY WORKED OUT WITH A BOOK I ACTUALLY REALLY ENJOYED AND WILL PROBABLY BE REREADING THIS SUMMER BECAUSE THAT ENDING IS SO BEAUTIFUL, I NEED MORE OF IT.
This book takes its time in explaining the world building and the ABSOLUTELY HEART WRENCHING RELATIONSHIP between Beauty and the Beast.
The love the sisters had for each other and the will to sacrifice their happiness for each other to an extreme extent was so real and beautiful.⚔Also the amount of attention the dogs get in this book is so amazing as well.
On one hand, it took forever for the story to pick up but once it did, I suddenly found myself reading the last chapter wanting more...
re-telling of Beauty and the Beast and I think Meagan Spooner did wonderfully by not only including elements from the original keeping it fairytale-esque, but also factors that made it her own.
Yeva grew up loving to hunt so she didn't think it would be too bad getting out of town as she would no longer feel pressured by the society to get married.
Consequently, Yeva goes out to hunt the Beast that took her father.
This story had a strong fairy tale vibe with its fantasy world, fantastical creatures, and curses but it did not stick too close to the original Beauty and the Beast tale.
Though, I have to say that the way this story built Beauty and Beast's motivations did not feel as Stockholm syndrome as the classic tale.Although this worked great as a retelling in my opinion, it was pretty weak in terms of direction.
(No love triangle.) And Beauty has a dog companion that follows her through most of the book that a lot of readers might love!Overall, though I wanted a bit more from the curse storyline, this was an enjoyable retelling and the kind of reading experience I crave.
Hunted is now my second-favourite retelling of this faery tale, closely following Cruel Beauty, of course.
Like Hodge’s Cruel Beauty, which integrated other tales into the story, such as Perrault’s Bluebeard and Greek mythology, Hunted integrates Russian folklore, as well.
“To the girl who reads by flashlight who sees dragons in the clouds who feels most alive in worlds that never were who knows magic is real who dreams  This is for you”From the moment that I read the dedication above, I was utterly entranced with this novel…This reinterpretation of the classic tale presents a slow cat-and-mouse game of Beauty, the huntress, and Beast, the hunted.
The setting is Russia and I definitely felt like it was a nice blend of the classic Beauty and the Beast with Peter and the Wolf.
The pace helped to set up the atmosphere - it contributed to the feeling and I felt it was flawless.I would highly recommend this book to anyone who loves retellings - particularly if you are into dark, gothic or stabby things.
More stabby than lovie...than this book is for you!Original Review: A classic tale of love via Stockholm Syndrome...Seriously though - this book - my favorite retelling of all time.
Some of the story threads are definitely true to the original fairy tale (kidnapping, a curse, a ruined castle, a beast), but where Spooner deviates from that tale is where the meat of this story really comes from.In this retelling, Beauty is something of a badass.
There, he re-enters the surrounding forest, stalking deeper and deeper into the wilderness in search of something that will re-instate his fortune and return the family to the good life they had in town.This does not go so well for him.
I really enjoyed the way  Meagan Spooner blended Russian folklore elements into this retelling of Beauty & the Beast.
However, if you enjoy retellings of fairytales, you might find this one interesting.There may have been more, but the Russian fairytales Tsarevitch Ivan, the Firebird and the Gray Wolf, The Firebird and Princess Vasilisa, and Vasilisa the Beautiful are all mentioned or incorporated into the story in one way or another.
He goes missing while out hunting, so our Beauty character Yeva goes out to find him only to be captured by the beast.
The beast is hoping she can break a curse placed upon him.
the entire concept of beauty and the beast is so wild to me like. homegirl straightup loved an animal romantically. an animal. that’s so wild like have you ever had a pet? in other words, i enjoyed the hell out of this much more than i expected. definitely gave me everything A Court of Trash and Roses couldn't.
Spontaneous buddy read  with my fav, Maraaammmm“To the girlwho reads by flashlightwho sees dragons in the cloudswho feels most alive in worlds that never werewho knows magic is realwho dreamsThis is for you”Hunted is a beautiful retelling of the famous Beauty and the Beast but offers different twists to the original story. One of those twists were that we got a point of view from the Beast himself. So like, this book was GREAT but it always was MEH and that’s why I’m so  CONFLICTED  because ye
with my fav, Maraaammmm“To the girlwho reads by flashlightwho sees dragons in the cloudswho feels most alive in worlds that never werewho knows magic is realwho dreamsThis is for you”Hunted is a beautiful retelling of the famous Beauty and the Beast but offers different twists to the original story.
So like, this book was GREAT but it always was MEH and that’s why I’m so  CONFLICTED  because yes it was magical and gripping but it was also DRAWN OUT.
The plot was mysterious and attention grabbing, the problem is that 70% through the book and it feels like the plot is STILL building.
In fact, her two sisters were like that and they were all close!Another thing I liked was that when they introduced a guy that wanted to marry her, he was actually someone kind, loving and actually liked that she enjoyed hunting.
I liked how the romantic plot in this ended.Then there is the relationship between Beauty and the Beast.
I loved reading it, especially since Beauty really hated Beast for a long time bc of something.
I loved reading about Beast and his struggles with his humanity.
Like I enjoyed it, but I wanted more.
Rich and enchanting, Hunted was the tale I never knew I needed - it's a Beauty and the Beast retelling interspersed with Russian elements and I don't know how to express my feelings for this book but I LOVE IT SO MUCH. rtc!!
3.5 stars "She knew now why she was here. She would see the monster dead." Hunted is a hard one to review. I love, love, love the concept of a vengeful huntress Beauty and a cat-and-mouse game with the Beast, and the book itself delivers. Yet we didn't click the way I did with other Beauty & the Beast retellings like A Court of Thorns and Roses and Uprooted.The romance is a soothing slow burn. Those who enjoy it in small doses should read this immediately. It takes ages for Yeva (Beauty) to
It takes ages for Yeva (Beauty) to fall in love with her captor, and their relationship is cemented in friendship and trust.
She remembers her imprisonment, she remembers the Beast's promise to murder her sisters should she try to escape.Whereas A Court of Thorns and Roses stuck close to the Disney version—and this is not a criticism—Hunted only utilizes the basic frame of the original fairy tale.
Yeva's sisters love her and are the complete opposite of the traditional selfish, preening peacocks.
One thing I feel the book did keep from the Disney adaption is Belle's wanting.Yeva yearns for more, a bigger world, a bigger life, just more from her existence.
The snow is a canvas, her father would say, upon which the beast paints his past, his home, his intentions, his future. Learn to see the picture and you will know him as you know yourself.  This is the Beauty & the Beast retelling everyone has been waiting for. I tried dozens of Beauty & the Beast retellings. Okay, maybe not dozens, but enough to know it's one of those fairytales (like Alice in Wonderland which, by the way, I still haven't found a good enough retelling of) that is hard
Okay, maybe not dozens, but enough to know it's one of those fairytales (like Alice in Wonderland which, by the way, I still haven't found a good enough retelling of) that is hard to get just right.I have never had the pleasure to read anything by Meagan Spooner, but that is definitely going to change if Hunted is anything to go by.
When her father loses their fortune, and the family has to pack up and move to his old hunting cabin in the woods, Yeva isn't worried.
It isn't until her father's hunting trips become longer and longer, less staggered, and he brings home less game, that Yeva begins to worry.
I'm still not over the live action film of Beauty and the Beast, so this book was a pleasure to read.Essentially, Hunted is a super Feminist retelling of BatB.
Most of the plot stays loyal to Disney's BatB, but Meagan Spooner also made some changes in order to make her story one of the best fairy tale retellings YA has to offer.For me, the best feature of this book was its lack of instalove.
I admit that this made the plot relatively slow-paced, but it was for the best because Yeva and the Beast's relationship felt more authentic.To my surprise, Meagan Spooner also explored Stokholm Syndrome in her novel.
This was an awesome book! I really wasn't sure what to expect with this one, because some beauty and the beast retellings can be really uninteresting and poorly written but this was a surprisingly fantastic read! There were a few parts that could've been left out and I wouldn't have minded but overall it was pretty awesome. I love when the female MC is fearless and kickass with a great sense of humor. The relationship beauty had with her sisters was one of my favorite parts, for real.
Deaf to her sisters’ protests, Yeva hunts this strange Beast back into his own territory—a cursed valley, a ruined castle, and a world of creatures that Yeva’s only heard about in fairy tales.
I'm so happy to say that I really enjoyed this new book of hers!Yeva and her family have fallen on hard times, and they move far from town to their old cabin, where Yeva's father will hunt in the forest in order to provide for his three daughters, and make some money back to pay debts.
Yeva's father used to tell her tales of magical beasts he used to see while hunting in the forest.
I don't really understand what even happened and I'm confused as to how I feel about this book so let me just give you some quick thoughts- I didn't like the Beast.
I felt like this Beast had no likeable qualities and was just a big ball of a shit.
I thought she was a great main character but she did get a bit weird at the ending and once again it would've been better if she didn't go with the Beast.
I was really looking forward to this book and it ended up being a big ball of weird nothingness.
this is nothing new or original and I'm just over it
(I received an advance copy of this book for free. Thanks to HarperCollins and Edelweiss.)  "This is a dream," she whispered. "Magic. A fairy tale."  This was a YA retelling of Beauty and the Beast.I liked Yeva, and I liked how strong she was in difficult situations. She went after her father when he was in trouble, and she didn't give up on the Beast either, even when everybody else had. She was quite stubborn though, she didn't always take the easy option, and was opinionated as to what she wa
We also got another interesting tale about a firebird woven into the story, and I really liked Yeva's love interest before the Beast - Solmir, who seemed sweet and willing to bend to her desires.
I personally didn't find there to be as much romance as I expected though, and it seemed like more of a case of Yeva wanting to rescue him than falling in love with him.
The story was enjoyable though, even if the pace was maybe a little slow.The ending to this was a happily ever after, and i liked how things turned out, especially because it wasn't just Beauty and the Beast who got a happy ending.6.5 out of 10
