https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/309640.Selected_Essays
I love Eliot's poetry, especially Four Quartets, but I find that his criticism is just as present day to day for me. These essays offer an education. Without his finely appreciative advocacy it might have been years before I picked up Webster, Tourneur and Jonson. These essays are also great specimens of the English review-essay; as with James, Eliot's conquest of literary London was partly due to his mastery of the lofty, authoritative "we" of canonic critcism.
Every essay in here reads like the work of somebody with a desk full of papers who throws them all on the floor in one motion and starts from scratch.
Reading his critical work is like watching fog dissipate.A big chunk of this falls into hyper-specialized poetry and theater criticism that I have little use for, and religious writing that is specialized and speaks to a social climate about which I know very little, but the whole thing deserves to be scanned for structural insight.
His observations about the role of critics and the problems of being a journalist would hold up anyplace.
As a poet and critic who was also a dramatist, Eliot occupied an unusual position among 20th-century English-language writers. His thoughts on earlier dramatists—who, we should recall, commonly wrote in verse—are useful for anyone encountering their work on stage or in print, and that's why I got hold of this collection, though it's important for other reasons as well. I'm dipping into it from time to time, as the occasion arises; for instance, I relied on it in assessing a production of Marlowe's Tamburlaine in 2014.
I would be lying if I said I was familiar with all the references made in this book. The fact is that Eliot is better read and knows more languages than I ever hope to achieve in this lifetime. Still, this book was really edifying.
The book begins with Eliot’s view of literary talent and the role of criticism.
In these two essays, he seems to presage postmodernism in his view that the writer can’t be extracted from his/her culture and literary traditions; nor can the writer thrive without the influence of subsequent criticism.
Here, Eliot’s tendency to prefer the traditions of the past, instead of the emerging ones, draw him as a complex figure – willingly trapped in the literary past but writing some of the most modern poetry of the twentieth century.
Read the Hamlet and Shakespeare essays. Eliot can distill so much into a single sentence. Good lead-in to reading Montaigne, who he and others believe had a strong influence on Shakespeare.
I feel bad about giving T.S. Eliot's Selected Essays only two stars, since there are some terrific essays in here: for instance, "Shakespeare and the Stoicism of Seneca," "Hamlet and His Problems," "Dante," and the essays near the end on humanism.
But try sitting through an essay on Cyril Tourneur or Philip Massinger and see if you're patience isn't tried.
What Eliot is trying to do with this book is lay out his idea of a poetic canon.
To sum up Eliot, poetry has given birth to two great geniuses: Shakespeare and Dante.
Everyone else, though, is not too fun to read about.
for a good stretch this was an easy five star book, then in the back end eliot sinks into writing about writers about whom there is no concern anymore (how could such an immortal writer dedicate so much time to someone like swinburne?) in a way that says nothing to those unfamiliar with those writers, and religious and social criticism which is both wildly outdated and at best distasteful (at worst decisively reprehensible)
And, as with all truly great critics, his individual studies of writers compel you with passion and enthusiasm to read their works to which he refers.For those interested in the specific content itself, the following goes into greater detail: This anthology is divided into seven sections: The first has two polemics, one on 'Tradition and the Individual Talent', the other - 'The Function of Criticism' (published in 1923) - was and remained for many decades a milestone in literary criticism, being regarded as of the first really modernist perspectives/approaches to it (though I feel the 19th century poet and critic Matthew Arnold's criticism deserves much more recognition for being a strong advocate of modernist literature).
'You are a delusion, said roundly John Eglinton to Stephen. You have bought us all this way to show us a French triangle. Do you believe your own theory? No, Stephen said promptly.' ('Ulysses', p.274.)This book of essays is of historical value:, it offers an insight into what passed as non-academic literary criticism in the first part of the 20th century. It has biographical value for anyone interested in the development of Thomas Eliot’ s career; where it is worth remembering that he was public
No, Stephen said promptly.'	('Ulysses', p.274.)This book of essays is of historical value:, it offers an insight into what passed as non-academic literary criticism in the first part of the 20th century.
For example, it’s difficult to imagine anyone studying 'Hamlet' today bothering with Eliot’s famous essay, unless to take it as a model of how not to construct a convincing argument .
It’s not just the 'Hamlet' essay, but the whole book that is haunted by a fictional performance in a Dublin Library.
As lasting commentary on writers or writing, Eliot’s essays have the limited value of historically contingent opinions masquerading as objective facts.
What happens is a continual surrender of himself as he is at the moment to something which is more valuable. The progress of an artist is a continual self-sacrifice, a continual extinction of personality.Poetry is not a turning loose of emotion, but an escape from emotion; it is not the expression of personality, but an escape from personality. But, of course, only those who have personality and emotion know what it means to want to escape from these things.
Its nice to finds opinionation with which one agrees so nicely written down.
Eliot's brilliance is clearly on display, but this book is so esoteric that only the highest levels of literary scholars could possibly draw from it.
