https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/117840.Imperial_Earth
Imperial Earth, Arthur C.
ClarkeImperial Earth is a science fiction novel by British writer Arthur C.
کلارک؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: ماه می سال 2008 میلادیعنوان: امپراتوری زمین ؛ نویسنده: آرتور سی.
کلارک؛ مترجم: محمد قصاع؛ تهران، آبنوس، 1374؛ در 320 ص؛ چاپ دیگر: تهران، گل مریم، 1377؛ شابک: ایکس - 964919553؛ موضوع: داستانهای علمی تخیلی از نویسندگان انگلیسی - سده 20 معنوان: بازی بزرگ؛ نویسنده: آرتور سی.
کلارک؛ مترجم: کامبیز میرفلاح؛ تهران، پاسارگاد، 1373؛ در 504 ص؛ چاپ دیگر: 1390؛ در 514 ص؛ شابک: 9789646933996؛ نسخه اصلی در سال 1976 میلادی برای نخستین بار چاپ شده است.
Add to that the fact that book was written in the seventies and yet it had predicted such things as palmtop organizer and the internet, and the kind of propulsion engine powered by mini black holes, the kind only mentioned in the Star Trek series so far.
Still it didn't seem to promise much beyond mere advertisement on life on Titan, and I admitted to a slight feeling of disappointment.But then on the 500th anniversary of the USA, Duncan Makenzie was invited to give a speech before the assembled representatives of Earth and its colonies.
Unexpectedly romantic are the words that describe Imperial Earth. For many years I have known this novel only by its title. Based on that title, I had assumed the novel would feel bold and grandiose in every respect. So I was not prepared for how unexpectedly intimate and introspective it is. If novels like   2001  and  Rendezvous with Rama  are operas, Imperial Earth is more of a play. And I love a good play. Get me musing about deep aspects of humanity and science, and I will pardon the absenc
Unexpectedly romantic are the words that describe Imperial Earth.
are operas, Imperial Earth is more of a play.
The first third of the novel, depicting life on Titan and a voyage to Earth in 2276 (think Quincentennial) is enthralling.
The ideas and themes of Imperial Earth are similar to 2001 and Rendezvous with Rama.
And though he lacks the vernacular of “smart phones”, Clarke tellingly depicts an Earth culture that has developed a fetish-level dependence on communications technology.
Imperial Earth is high-quality science fiction.
It might not wind up your favorite, but Imperial Earth is Arthur C.
Nutshell: copy of a copy of the colonial administrator on Titan travels to Earth to make yet another copy of himself, gets re-involved in love triangle, gives congressional speech at US quincentennial, &c.Doesn't ever really get off the ground for me.
It's like the opposite of Rendezvous with Rama, where now the aliens explore us, which is about as exciting.Tries to do something slick with a section (174-82) involving a tour of the salvaged HMS Titanic.
In this one, we're pre-interstellar travel, but the magic still arises in some engaging discussion of the asymptotic drive, which involves hooking a vessel up to a singularity (87-91).
Overall, I really, really liked this book --- I withheld one star for some minor complaints that made it fall short of perfect for me, which I will get to later.It's very well plotted --- things are introduced early on in the story, in the vignettes capturing the protagonist's childhood on Titan, that all get woven into the plot much later, when he comes to Earth to give a speech at the United States's quincentennial celebration.It also has great character development; the protagonist, Duncan Makenzie, is a clone, and Clarke does a wonderful job of drawing subtle distinctions between Duncan and his two elder clones (whom Duncan thinks of as both his father and grandfather, and also as much-older brothers ...
It's been a while since I picked up Clarke, and somehow I missed this when I was younger.
In a lot of ways, I'm glad I waited, because there are some parts of this that would not have effected me the same way when I was younger.It's probably the best character work Clarke ever did.
The main character tours Earth - well, the US, mostly, in 2276, coming from his home on Titan.
It's fun to see how close Clarke comes to things just 30 years later (the Internet, personal mobile devices) and where he doesn't quite make it (the "smartphones" aren't phones, nor are they exactly connected to the "internet", but are boxy, and everyone still used command line interface!!!).
Anno nuovo, nuova sfida..leggere almeno un libro al mese con la parola che verrà sorteggiata.Questo mese era Terra.Così ho trovato " l'occasione " per leggere finalmente questo libro.E' un libro molto tecnico che a tratti può risultare noioso, ma a me è piaciuto.
Mi ha catapultato nel 2276 su Titano, e poi sulla Terra.Belle le descrizioni dei luoghi, delle usanze..di tutto.
il viaggio è stato emozionante..mi sembrava di essere nello spazio.Clarke a me piace.
qui sembra che sia dedicato solo alle descrizioni di un mondo futuro che non porta a nulla, e ad un certo punto la storia si infittisce.Per gli appassionati del genere.
Written to commemorate the US bicentennial in 1976, it’s basically propaganda for space travel and technological innovation, aimed at young Americans.
He foresees (at least implicitly) the personal computer, the mobile personal assistant, the mobile communicator and the internet, but he doesn’t put them together and completely fails (as, to be fair, everybody did) to realize the massive consequences that would result from their amalgamation.Consequently, his vision of how information is distributed in his imagined future is very centralized, bureaucratic and in some ways almost authoritarian.
Having failed to imagine the disruption, Clarke ends up profiling a future that looks more old-fashioned than the reality of our present day.
Well this was pretty cool.Descriptions of Titan, of space travel, and of a depopulated and reforested earth are all great.
For example (spoilers) the main character is black, but this is only revealed halfway through the book as an inconsequential detail.
Spaceships powered by black holes, zero gee sexytime, atmosphere mining of Titan, enormous radio telescopes, COOL ASS ALIENS, smartphones, the internet, "experience machines", etc.
Also I love reading about how these people are supposed to be still using tape for data storage and using command prompts on their smartphones.
Lol.In terms of plot, it was basically standard Clarke.
Even so, plot is not the main show IMO.
Communication and transportation have been worked out (with the wry observation that the handheld devices seem an awful lot like those we have now, more than 250 years before this is set).From the moment that Duncan meets with his 'grandmother', the story develops nicely, with Duncan a character to enjoy in the novel situation of a human adult's coming to Earth for the first time.
The cleverness of the story and the development of Duncan, as well as how a childhood friend and a woman in Duncan's past come to affect his trip to Earth draw one in nicely.
I think SF author Ben Bova must have read this and had his socks knocked off; the flavour of "Imperial Earth" is all over his lovely Grand Tour novels, and you can see in Arthur Clarke's book the inspiration for Bova's more recent epic series (and it's all win-win, as far as this SF fan is concerned).
Mind you, some of the dreamy tropical reef exploration feels a bit out of synch with the rest of the book, but it's a mild tangent that doesn't detract from the rest of this sumptuous novel.

وقتی میبینی کتابی رو کلارک نوشته،انتظار یه کتاب عالی رو داری و این کتاب هم به هیچ وجه ناامیدت نمیکنه. بخشی از کتاب شرح ماجراهاییه که روی تایتان، یکی از اقمار زحل رخ میده و داستان ایجاد تمدن منحصر به فرد خودش. این که انسان چهطور با شرایط سازگار میشه و زندگی در آینده چه مفهومی داره. بخش دیگهٔ کتاب هم اون بخش داستانیه که به نظرم خیلی خوب و شیرین روایت شده و فلسفهبازیهای زیبای کلارکی رو تو خودش داره.
‫وقتی می‌بینی کتابی رو کلارک نوشته،‌انتظار یه کتاب عالی رو داری و این کتاب هم به هیچ وجه ناامیدت نمی‌کنه. بخشی از کتاب شرح ماجراهاییه که روی تایتان، یکی از اقمار زحل رخ می‌ده و داستان ایجاد تمدن منحصر به فرد خودش. این که انسان چه‌طور با شرایط سازگار می‌شه و زندگی در آینده چه مفهومی داره. بخش دیگهٔ کتاب هم اون بخش داستانیه که به نظرم خیلی خوب و شیرین روایت شده و فلسفه‌بازی‌های زیبای کلارکی رو تو خودش داره.
As wonderful as is to be expected from Clarke. Love love love his vision of Earth in the not so distand future.
Right so at first this book honestly felt kinda like Duncan was just logging his journey to Earth.
It felt weird with no clear plot direction to me, other than to get a clone etc.
However that quickly changed and things picked up.
Like a snowball rolling down a hill.
Clarke builds and builds the tension within this novel until it finally spills over the edge.
The resolution fits quite well and left me feeling content.
All in All I was extremely pleased with this book and will definitely be picking up another Clarke novel in the near future.
I bought a hard back version of this book many years ago.
This year I got the Kindle edition and also the audible edition, brilliantly narrated by Mike Grady.
I used the 'immersion' option whereby I could both listen and read the text at the same time.
I have read the printed edition perhaps three times over the years, but I have to day that I got so much more out of it hearing it being read so well.Clarke consistently made predictions concerning the development of technology.
As we follow his journey, we encounter politics, singularity-driven spaceships, zero-gravity sex, the wonder of seeing Earth with fresh eyes and more.Starting on Titan, we get Clarke's famously precise and yet poetic descriptions of the landscape and the technology needed to maintain life on that harsh, forbidding world.
On Earth itself, as Duncan slowly adjusts to life at the bottom of a harsh gravity well he has the once in a lifetime opportunity to see the mother world with his own eyes, dabble in local politics and get try and figure out what his old friend/enemy Karl is up to.Despite being written in the 1970s, at times this book has a real Golden Age optimistic feel to it.
This novel was written in 1975 and I think it's one of his better novels and the theme of autonomous regions wanting self rule and drugs is quite apt to that period historically and still is today.
The plot is there is a teenage lad whose grandad is a prominent scientist and ruler of Titan which is also governed from Earth and is like an autonomous region with in a country.
As a result he is like a celebrity but perhaps inexplicably there is a power struggle by the engineers to get one of their people to rule Titan.
Some of the predictions that Clarke made in this book have already come true today, like the internet.Regarding the plot, I enjoyed everything that happened on Titan, the parts on Earth however dragged a little, since it was a person from Titan seeing lots of things on Earth for the first time.
In the second half, the book became a sci-fi mystery novel, which I thought unique and interesting.One thing that bothers me was the assumption that Clarke makes about Earth and its different cultures.
I thought this book was entertaining.
It didn't have any stark life realizations, or a connection to something deeper, and was often quite confusing, but overall it was enjoyable.
I think it was probably Clarke's ideas about what the future could hold, and the immense beauty of that, in a novel.
But not to discredit Clarke.
I know this is a classic and the descriptions, ideas and themes implicit in the simple projections for the future were beautiful, and I truly enjoyed reading those.
Overall, an entertaining read, though probably not one I'll revisit soon.
I admit that I haven't read every single book Arthur C.
Clarke has ever read, but of his books that I have read this is without a doubt the very worst.
One of the major themes was the impact of cloning on the lifecycle of a family, but if that theme really interests you I'd instead recommend 
by David Brin - a much more interesting and longer view of the impact.I was rather disappointed, because I'd always considered Clarke to be a safe bet when it came to reading material - but I guess it just goes to show you that everybody writes a dog now and then.
Duncan Makenzie of the most important family of (Saturn's moon) Titan is traveling to Earth for the first time to partake in the 500th anniversary of the US declaration of independence, and also to clone himself to continue the family line (he is himself a clone).The plot is of minimal interest, it is just a vehicle for Clarke to expand on various ideas- cloning, living on Titan, space travel, the search for extra terrestrial life, mathematical puzzles and what Earth's culture and society might look like 300 years from now.
These are all interesting in their way, but the novel as a whole suffers from a rather pedestrian plot.
آنها خیلی به پایان دنیا نزدیک شده بودندچند دقیقه بعد به انچا رسیدند و ماشین در فاصله مناسبی توقف کرد.
راننده گفت نمیتوانم بیش از این نزدیک شوم .
کی میخواهد بیرون برود ؟ یکی از افراد پرسید : درجه حرارت چقدر است ؟ " گرم است , پنجاه درجه زیرصفر, لباسهای یک لایه کافیست .
در سال 2176 بخشی از نژاد بشر دیگر متولد زمین نبودندو برای اولین بار مطمئن بودیم هر اتفاقی برای سیاره مادر بیفتد میراث فرهنگی بشر تز بین نخواهد رفت.
ما تا مرگ خورشید و حتی بعد از آن جاودانه شده بودیم.
( از متن کتاب
Couched in a travelogue story about a man from Titan visiting the earth to help celebrate the U.S.’s quadricentennial, this novel is a look at where we can be in another two hundred years. It predicts a future where being bisexual is the norm and technology has advanced us to a non-aggressive, relatively peaceful world. It is great reading, though in place of much action, Clarke’s writing fills you with a sense of scientific wonder. Come visit my blog for the full review…http://itstartedwiththehugos.blogspot...
Arthur C Clarke at his very, very best. He got it one hundred percent right; his blend between science fiction and science future fact. In my opinion, it could be exactly the way things may be, and likely will be, in a couple of hundred years from now. Interestingly, the probes put out around Saturn and Jupiter are discovering the very things that Clarke postulated in this work. After multiple reads I still can't put it down. Well worth the read.
Clarke might as well have written an essay called, "What I Think Earth Will Be Like In the Year 2276". There's hardly any plot; the characters are wooden. Even when somebody dies, there's no drama. I picked this up for a quick escapist read, but I could barely finish it. Every once in a while, I thought to myself, "I'm not nerd enough for this book."
One quarter exposition, one quarter puerile nonsense projections of 1970s technology, one quarter utter boredom as the mundane is lovingly described to eyes unused to it, one quarter total lack of dramatic tension, one quarter faddish pop psychology, one quarter colonialism, sexism, and a misguided engagement with race. Who authorized this? Utter tripe.
It is only interesting topic of group theory.boring ,boring,boring..................
Yug. School-boy buggery described, a lack of awareness of the consequences of surrogate motherhood. I feel that Clarke fell down on the job writing this one.
It is structurally similar to  Against the Fall of Night, but while all of the interesting ideas in that book are natural extensions of the main plot, Imperial Earth completely rerouts the story in the last third for no good reason.Clarke's prose here is typical: serviceable, with occasionally lyricism, but overall prosaic.The ideas explored include space colonization and how those colonies would develop economically and culturally, human cloning, whether history should be viewed with reverence or as entertainment, personal technology (e.g. computers), space flight (including black-hole-powered flight) and, ultimately, technological research and innovation.The premise is that Duncan Makenzie, in the third (cloned) generation of autocrats from the Saturnian moon Titan, returns to Earth both to celebrate the USA's quincentennial anniversary and to clone himself.
