https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14758.In_Her_Shoes
She also takes some chances: further complicating their relationship is their mother, whose mental illness leads to her death while the girls are still young; the beautiful Maggie suffers from a debilitating learning disability that effectively limits her chances at success in the entertainment industry (she can't read the teleprompter during an MTV audition that she would have otherwise had in the bag); Maggie betrays Rose's trust to such a magnitude that their relationship may be beyond repair (no one can hurt you like a sister and Weiner takes advantage of the opportunity to challenge the sisters' relationship).
E. Cummings, and several classic literary texts, it's that it reminded me that there are certainly better books out there and, even though Weiner's work was somewhat humorous and mildly entertaining, maybe my time would be better served reading some of those.
This book was surprisingly enjoyable - a lot better than some of the other chick lit shit I've read. I would have given it another star, but the movie (which I've seen many more times than I should probably admit) did a much better job of building a story arc and tying up the various plot lines. To the point where it's like, that's so perfect and obvious, how did Jennifer Weiner not think of doing that herself? But still, thumbs up for the book.
Pretty sure I didn't even like the movie so I'm kind of wondering why I wanted to read the book?
It's like all on big giant crazy family friendship kind of thing.Now I'm not saying it isn't realistic to someone else because everyone grows up in different ways and deals with different situations.
I'm also not saying you were loved less or more than me - because I honestly have no idea.I just didn't like this book because I couldn't relate to either character.
Rose is heartbroken when she walks in on her boyfriend having sex with Maggie...and Maggie wearing her shoes.
Tired of living in Rose's shadow, she is determined to find her niche - and subsequently forgive herself for what she did to her sister.Rose has a journey of her own - as her now-ex was one of her coworkers, she finds herself taking a leave from her job to follow her heart and decide what she really wants to do.Weiner has intertwined the stories of two very different women into a novel that is both humorous and dramatic.
Jennifer Weiner can write funny passages.
There's the 80-something woman who uses her new computer to print fake parking permits.
The fussy pug that prefers more elegant surroundings.
It's formulaic, even for chick lit.
Two sisters don't get along - one's chubby and bookish, the other a wild party girl.
They live together for awhile, then have a big falling out, then go through a period of personal growth, then once they've learned important life lessons, they live happily ever after.
So it's exactly what you'd expect.
500+ pages seems like a long march towards the inevitable.
This is another fun novel from Jennifer Weiner. I was curious to read it because I had seen the movie version (starring Cameron Diaz and Toni Collette) and I liked the story about two sisters who were total opposites, and yet still found ways to love and help each other. It was a pleasant, enjoyable read.
It seems Weiner must have had a terrible jerk for a father and stuck up leech for a sister, because all her books seem to dance around this.I read Weiner hoping to find a new stronger "Good In Bed" but never do. This book was entertaining but not good. I refused to watch the movie because the main character should be at lest a tad fat. Instead, in typical Hollywood fashiong, they just made a thin girl homely.
The story is ultimately about two sisters: the free spirit, partying, beautiful sister, and the uptight, chunky, plain sister.
Maggie and Rose are characters that anyone with a sister can relate to.
After Maggie does something horrible to her sister, they each try to go their separate ways, and walking in the other sister's shoes (hence the title).
In the end, the sisters end up happily back together, in the most adorable ways possible, and each come out better for it.
The poem that Maggie read at the end was heartbreaking, and really shows how tight the bonds of sisterhood can be.
Don't get me wrong, this book is not awful. However I felt that it was too long for just a story of 2 sisters and their grandmother and even when I got half way through, it felt as though the story was going no where interesting. I have not been able to finish it, though I am still interested in the story and may finish it at some point. I just feel that my efforts can be put into more captivating books.
Bad. Just bad. Resisting the urge to burn it, but only to avoid accruing overdue library book fees.
This was my first time reading a Jennifer Weiner novel, and I think I will read more in the future. I chose this book because it met the requirements for a reading challenge- book with unlikable character. This book delivered on that! I liked the dynamic relationship of the sisters, and I really enjoyed that the story was told through different points of view. I am interested in watching the movie to see how it will portray the characters.
The story and writing are alright, about appreciating your sisters, but the inconsistencies of character, plot holes, and shock value ruined it for me.
It did have good perspectives into the mind of the smart "fat" girl and the attractive "stupid" girl and how they clash.
Plus, Weiner's formula for plot seem to follow to same consistent lines: fat girl who is funny and smart, incredulous twist of fate, way too nice guy who loves the fat girl, and happy love ending.
I didn't dislike the story, it just wasn't my favorite.
This book was about 400 pages too long. They could have made it cute and fun. It never went anywhere ... it was totally predictable and I kept waiting for some twist. BORING.I love girl books but this one took way to long and the book ended about half way through.
It's been a while since I've read this, think it was 2005.But anyway, a nice light read, but with some interesting not always fun truth about family. It has this perfect balance between fun and seriousness. The sisters love each other, but there is this older younger sibling dynamic going on that has stuck since childhood. Both have things to learn and do in order to break away from that and that was well written and I was happy with the ending. It was good without becoming corny.
I think I’m coming to the realization that fluffy chick lit is just not for me.
You'll laugh, you'll cry, you'll call up your sister and apologize for pulling her hair twenty-something years ago, you'll go out and buy a new pair of ridiculously expensive yet oh-so-worth-it shoes, and more than likely, run out and buy every other word that Jennifer Weiner has ever thought, much less written.
I mean, maybe I'm just that kind of person, one who would love the opportunity to just sit around and read books all day and night, but that was just, like, the neatest thing that I've ever heard of in my life.
I didn't burn it, even though the rage was definitely there!
among other things ~ yes there were a few spoilers out there, but they helped me to come back to the book, so I was grateful.After starting the book up again, after the rage, it immediately started to get better.
I rated the book like I did because the book did end well.
I don't think I will read any of her other books, as through others reviews, it sounds like her books have a cookie cutter shape.
This story is about two sisters , Maggie and Rose, who lost their mother when they were young and grew up with a cantankerous wicked stepmother .
It was supposed to be a tearjerker which is why I thought to read it , but it didn't affect me that way .I liked following Maggie , the younger of the two who was more of a rebel and problematic for everyone.
It was easy enough to read and for the most part it grabbed my attention.
Rose was the older one who had a good head on her shoulder and more educated .
I was prepared to hate this book.
I hadn't heard anything about it, but I had seen the movie trailers, and it looked like some kind of silly romance story.
Someone told me they loved it, and while I don't remember who it was, it is someone who's opinion I respect, so I figured I would give it a try, just to say I tried.
The first few pages made me believe that I was probably going to be right, but I plodded on, figuring I would just "get through it".
It's not deep, thought-provoking literature, but it was a very enjoyable book.
Mas que la vida de Maggie y Rose Feller, tenemos a un montón de personajes que están pasando por cosas, o que han pasado por cosas, y cómo un "robo" puede hacer que todo colisione, que se desbarate o que todo agarre su camino. Me encantó la narrativa, solo con cosas importantes, y unos personajes entrañables. Ella, Lewis, la señora Lefkowitz, y el resto de los viejitos de Golden Acres, Michael, Simon, Amy, y otros no tan entrañables, Sydelle, Jim, etc, etc, que hicieron de esta historia, algo muy bueno.
Clearance book sales are my enemy. I am the proud owner of 9 more paperbacks that I have zero room for (but at a total bargain!) I loved the movie version of this. Toni Collette is amazing in everything ever and I think I love her a little bit? Like she may have been 90% of the reason I bought this.Long story short I have it so I suppose I'll read it at some point.
I kept thinking the book was to familiar (sometime is read things again without realizing - that is why I use Goodreads now) but then I realized I think I saw part of the movie on TV at some point. Guess that is why I kept picturing Shirley McClain as Ella!
My first stab at "chick lit". Entertaining, but also long-winded and editing mistakes drove me crazy. Also, subplots and characters disappear without explanation, or seem completely unnecessary. The main characters are unrealistic and unlikeable.
Re-read! Прочетох я за втори път и си я отбелязвам като все пак бройка за тази година. Нищо особено, но развличащо и отвличащо най-вече вниманието ми по време на принудителен престой в болницата :)
Rose and Maggie.
Siblings who share a true love-hate relationship.
Rose is the sorted one.
Maggie is the wayward child.
Rose does take care of her as much as she can, but how do you help someone who doesn't want to be helped?
Maggie doesn't make it any easier.
Rose is battling a few demons of her own, as well.
Suffice to say that they are well written, nuanced characters.
There is no relationship that can be more beautiful than what you share with your siblings.
Beautifully written and worth a read.
"The art of losing isn't hard to master." - Elizabeth Bishop 'One Art' poemI read this book before the movie came out and I was so excited to see the movie after reading it.
The movie is very close to the book, but of course the book is better!
There is so much more you get from the book, though you can easily watch the movie without reading the book.
(I found myself calling my own sister after finishing, just to tell her I loved her!) I'd read Elizabeth Bishop's poem previously, but loved it's context within this novel.
I understand the author's need to establish the setting and the characters, but when you've read any summary or review of the story before picking up the novel, you know what's coming up (Rose and Maggie's fight, Rose and Jim's breakup), and you can't wait till it happens.
For a while I really wasn't sure I was going to like the book, because of how impossible it was to get into the story.
But what happens to Maggie and Rose right after the Big Fight, I couldn't have foretold.
Maio: Book to ScreenCategoria: Livro Adaptado ao CinemaN - Na Sua Pele
I was wanting a frivolous light read and this fit the bill perfectly. To the review that said they like the movie better... No. I immediately watched the movie the day I finished the book. No comparison. Enormous character developing portions of the book are missing. But thumbs up on the book.
I pretty much hated this book. Neither of these women were likable or had any redeeming qualities, and I had no desire to root for either one of them. Maybe this made them more "real" but I come across enough jerks in real life that I don't need to experience book jerks.
