https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/56472.The_Gift
Amazing, amazing book. My map:
The first half is an extended discussion of the concept of gifts (vs paying for things) in ancient vs modern societies.
Once you get the basic point, that (especially older) societies exchanged goods and services as gifts, not for money, and that Hyde thinks that's a better way to do it, then you've got the idea.
The second half of the book then talks about Whitman and Pound, two worthy poets, but hardly connected in any real or useful sense to the foregoing gift discussion.
Second (and my other main complaint about the book) is that Hyde beats the gift horse to death.
Some of the reviewers' gripes probably owe to the fact this is a dense, dense book.
Having just reread the book again, I can say it not only has aged well, but the Great Recession and the rise of the sharing economy lend an even greater resonance (in fact, the anniversary material in the newer edition is less striking than the original).
Truly, artists should buy the book just for the cautionary tale on Pound.
Here and there, the book's prose rises to a level of poetry that astonishes me more than on the first reading, where I was just wrestling with the ideas and their implications.
This book saves me from choosing will over gift.
The Gift is a large and pretty messy book, to its credit, but the main thrusts are: 1) To use detailed analyses of folk-tales, anthropology, and economic theory to come up with a model for human interaction that parallels commodity exchange but is based around gift-giving, and 2) To give detailed readings of Whitman and Pound, two poets whose careers and lives Hyde sees standing at an intersection of gift giving and commerce in art and life.
Pound succeeds in one type of fable but fails in another.
I left for my appointment, thinking I'd have to find a used copy of this book sometime and read it.
We're supposed to read the author's analysis of gift-giving as a metaphor for the artistic experience and make the connections ourselves, I suspect.
Also, I left with a fear that my sense of moral outrage about the treatment of artists in this culture could lead me to a life like Ezra Pound's and a fascination with fascism.
There have been times and places in which a person came into his or her social being through the dispersal of his gifts, the "big man" or "big woman" being that one through whom the most gifts flowed.

Keen observations are sprinkled throughout on how an artist needs to protect from market forces that space where the artwork is conceived (essentially a gift), and only when it's finished and it's a true expression of his/her gift, then make the transition to how that gift makes its way into the world (a market economy, an agent, or sometimes not at all).
I'm not explaining it very well, but if you are an artist or an artisan or care about art in this modern world, read this book.
Combined with the misleading jacket description I don't think I've ever had a more disappointing or frustrating experience from a book that I thought was going to be pretty straightforward.It would have been more accurately subtitled not "Creativity and the Artist in the Modern World," but "An Ethnographic Study Through the Works of Whitman and Pound." If that subtitle still appeals to you, by all means read the book, but at least now you have a more accurate perception of what you're in for.
While Hyde has given his readers the gift of a lens through which to view artistic endeavors, this could have been done in about 50 pages - not 385.
This could have been a tight essay, a literary work (like a novel or short story) or a scholarly work on the anthropological history of gift giving, or even a series of biographies of writers.
Since Hyde attempts all of these things, he achieves none well.
But, if it took him 385 pages to discover that HIS true gift is as an artistic coop organizer, God Bless Him. The world has plenty of writers, but very few people with the talent to help them write.
You will also be introduced universally shared human traits - in this case, gift-giving.
You will view art differently and see how its creation, distribution or subjugation binds us or sets us apart.You will find mythology, poetry, anthropology, and history used to create a rich and complex analysis of art, gift-giving, economics, politics and group dynamics.
The book is, indeed, academic in nature and some parts were hard to get through (a familiarity with basic anthropological principles might help, but is not necessary).
These parts, along with the whole book, shine a light on our shared universal experience that threads us all together, through time, into a cohesive (yet often messy) human experience.
I sort of want to start reading it all over again from the beginning, since what I read two years ago is a little fuzzy now, but the main premise remains: it is so smart, and so important for any artist to read.
And I haven't read the Cantos, mostly, and I've already felt bad about that hole in my poetic education, so I thought I would read them before reading Hyde's amazing chapter on Pound, and then I'd understand it better.
I will try to read more things Lewis Hyde has written in the new year, and to take less time to read them.
it turns out that every culture has a great creepy folktale about how, if you give up on your art or become ungenerous, you shrivel up and turn into a rotten fascist prune.this is one of the best books I've ever read and has changed my life, and is smart as hell, even though the cover has an embarrassing little pink heart on it. IGNORE THE EMBARRASSING PINK HEART AND FORGE AHEAD. or risk becoming a rotten fascist prune, you know, it's your choice
Sorry, but this good-hearted little book, much-loved by the market-alienated artists it praises for preserving the primitive magic of creativity in our cold age -- well, it's kind of a crock.
We sure could use some powerful defenses of the aesthetic, in the face of the economic determinism that's monopolized public discourse.
But manifestos that willfully blind themselves to how artists and audiences have creatively engaged and negotiated the market underestimate just how resilient the need to create actually can be.
Quando vi o nome dele na capa de um livro que no Brasil foi traduzido como A dádiva (edição de 2010 da Civilização Brasileira, estou com preguiça de cadastrar aqui no Goodreads) não hesitei em comprar.The gift foi escrito em 1979; é, portanto, bem anterior a Trickster makes the world (1998).
Seja como for, continua sendo uma leitura interessante - a veia do ensaio aos moldes campbellianos já era forte no autor - mas, bem, o livro tem problemas.
No fundo é um livro que fala de problemas estruturais do mercado de arte, das renúncias e sacrifícios e dos boletos que não param de chegar, mesmo se você escreve umas palavras bonitas por aí.
I liked the book but I think I'd love the TED talk version.Essentially, Hyde describes how gift-giving establishes the relational boundaries between people.
I felt like he never quite drove this point home in the way I wanted him to, and yet his thesis sparked my imagination in a thousand ways.
It encourages me to keep writing, even if it is only a gift for a few people.
This thesis fits so nicely into my mental landscape that even though this book feels incomplete, I love it anyways for giving me a foundation to build on.
Been reading this for a few months now.
I'm a little out of practice reading this type of book, so it definitely took some effort.
Part of the difficulty may also have been that I was trying to read it over lunch breaks and was not very consistent with it either.I don't remember anymore where I first heard about this or when it was first recommended to me, but it must have been when I was in grad school.
It seems like that kind of book.There were lots of interesting ideas, insights, and connections, and I've dog-eared a lot of pages that I deemed worth revisiting, but my initial reaction is one of relief at having finished this one!
A fascinating examination of the gift, through historical practice and through cultural symbolism.
I especially liked the essential argument here, that works of art are gifts and not commodities.
Having slugged it out with a few editors in the past who wanted to focus on the commodified cultural product, instead of the artistic expression, this book really hit home.
It's not an easy read, but it doesn't have to be.
Reading it in bits and pieces and mulling it all over is the best approach.
The ideas of Hyde provide a powerful antidote to the increasing commodification of our lives, our work and our selves.
Useful, but overlong and dated with so.e questionable cultural references ("the Jew of the Old Testament"?). But the question of how art and commerce can coexist , the examples of Whitman and Pound, are worthwhile. I would seriously skim the section on usury, though.
Hyde refuses to acknowledge these less pleasant aspects of gift economies, focusing instead on everything that he can use to support his thesis, namely, a naive "HEY GUYS CREATIVE WRITING IS AWESOME".His conflation of the various meanings of the word 'gift' is also problematic.
The fact that the two of these are NOT the same, and that he ignores this so that he can act like your writing is a 'gift' to the outside community in all cases, is also problematic.
What I discovered was a long and thoughtful essay rather than a self-help guide.
I think this would be a very disappointing self-help book.
Instead, The Gift is a beautifully written, thoughtfully cultivated essay on how human society has changed since tribalism to capitalism, and how this has affected the work of an artist.
Hyde does not try to simplify this story with sweeping generalizations so common with non-fiction today.
And the message that he had for us in 1983 is as resonant today as it has ever been: How do we reclaim the erotic nature of art in a logical market economy?
I found my own reading of the Old Testament profoundly informed by the opportunity to view Israel as a gift economy, similar to the economies I've seen in impoverished neighborhoods and traditional communities in the US.
The insight I gained was so great that at this point I would argue it is not possible to understand the Old Testament without understanding this concept.
Conservative Protestants may object to Hyde's assessment of how Reformation theology ended the potential for grace (gift) as a basis for our lived community experience -- this is precisely the inverse of what we tell ourselves.
In the first half, Hyde explores gift economies throughout history and folklore, and argues that a gift doesn't achieve its full potential until it is either shared or somehow passed on (literally, the gift that keeps on giving).
In part two, Hyde closely examines the careers of Ezra Pound and Walt Whitman, to see how they managed to survive as artists (I learned a lot of things about Whitman I didn't know, which was awesome, and I learned that Pound was mostly a dick, which I already knew).I read the 25th anniversary edition, so there was also an afterword on how some organizations have been trying to bring Hyde's principles out of the theoretical and into the practical.
Because making it possible for a gifted person to gift others is, truly, the gift that keeps on giving.
Hyde originally wrote this book with poets in mind, but it is recommended for anyone working in any of the arts, or who wants to devote themselves to a career or calling that does not do well in a market economy.
In the first half of the book he draws on cultural anthropology and folktales to lay out his theory of a gift economy, and the characteristics and requirements of a gift.
In short, this book helped clarify my own conflicts with the market economy that currently dominates American life, and gave me hope that art will survive despite appearing inviable.
and wiki contributors - anyone who has a "gift" and senses the obligation to "keep the gift in motion."Hyde lays out his thoughts on "gift economies," based on folklore and cultural studies.
And he explores the issues that artists face when they are obliged to market their own work - the risk of corrupting their deep art with market-driven hack work.
Hyde regrets the "market triumphalism" that wants to turn every great idea into a trademarked/copyrighted/patented payoff.
But he's optimistic about the web enterprises that are returning creative gifts to the commons.This book will definitely go on the "great ideas" bookshelf next to my bed.
Requires patience, but is ultimately rewarding.
In a curious, gently critical tone, Hyde disrupts modern assumptions about value/worth.
Core idea: the most precious things in life are exchanged freely - art, friendship, charity - and in exchanging them, we create community.
Despite modern market pressures, we can and should carve out spheres for circulating gifts.First half imparts these ideas through forays into myth, anthropology, intellectual history, economics - which are at times stimulating, at times meandering and abstract.
Second half explores the works and lives of Whitman and Pound.
Fascinating literary and historical tidbits here.
Overall, unique and insightful.
This is a book about the cycle set in motion by gift-giving as it relates to the economy, art, relationships, and life.
Using proverbs, folk tales and examples in nature the author illustrates the role of gift-giving as used in tribal societies.
In contrast, by thriving on scarcity and accumulation, modern capitalism breaks this cycle, causing spiritual and material entropy.
A lovely book on how a simple act can serve as a powerful symbol for life.'We stand before a bonfire or even a burning house and feel the odd release it brings, as if the trees could give the sun return for what enters them through the leaf.'
It's become common sense to talk about artistic creation as part of our market economy, complicating the pressures of artistic creation with expectations for artists to then function as business people to sell, promote, and distribute their creations as well as make them.
Hyde, after an analysis of the notion of the gift in various cultures, and comparison of "gift culture" with "market culture," makes an excellent case that what artists do is better understood as a gift than as a product for sale.
One of the best things I've read in a long time.
Tried desperately to like it, but absolutely cannot. I don't care what reviews come in, this is a terrible treatise of any kind. I get the impression that you're supposed to love this book because the writing community tells you that you should. Reads like a ninth grader thinking that this would cut it as a Yale Ph.D. dissertation. Sorry, it's not.
This book was not at all what I expected, yet it proved so thought-provoking on the subject matter that I will be pondering it for some time. Hyde talks a great deal about the nature of gift economies versus trade economies, value versus worth, and identity versus deep self. His discussion of the poets Walt Whitman and Ezra Pound were particularly intriguing for me.
Really interesting meditation on the conflicts between art and commerce...viewed through the perspective of all art as a "gift" that is not diminished through sharing. I'm just finishing and alreading feeling like I've got to read it again to get the full gist.
