https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/421.The_White_Album
CI RACCONTIAMO STORIE PER VIVEREC’è chi trova lo stile di Joan Didion irritante e artificioso, e la accusa di prendersi troppo sul serio, di mettersi sempre al centro della narrazione.Io no.A me piace la sua enfasi, mi piacciono le sue ripetizioni, il suo cominciare e finire periodi consecutivi con frasi identiche, l’uso che fa della congiunzione e (come direbbe Martin Amis, batte perfino una canzone di Leonard Cohen), il suo ritmo magnetico, la sua melodia, la sua ricerca di un’eco, il suo incedere a colpi di ‘mi ricordo’.
We live entirely, especially if we are writers, by the imposition of a narrative line upon disparate images, by the "ideas" with which we have learned to freeze the shifting phantasmagoria which is our actual experience.”- Joan Didion, The White Album I wish I could dance like Fred Astaire and write like Joan Didion.
After reading her essays in 'The White Album', I think it would have been dangerous to breed Joan Didion with John McPhee.
But where John McPhee is rolling hills and farmer's markets, Joan Didion is a raging river, breaking waves, and rock and roll.
This collection is a revealing narrative of events that occurred in the 1960's and 1970's.
It examines the lives of famous and infamous people and places (Charles Manson, Ramón Novarro, the Hoover Dam, Huey Newton, the California freeway, Bogotá, Doris Lessing, and others).
Didion gives candid and thoughtful snapshots of a time past, some things unique to California, others universal.
Just as the author was living and reflecting on a time that was full of growth and change, these essays serve to illustrate that our time also has its similar and unique difficulties and joys.I look forward to reading her more recent collection of essays on America since 9/11.
It's not because I need water to survive, or because at times my life is maybe affected by decisions of urban planners into the way to divert traffic for one reason or another (which may not be to actually get traffic to move faster), my life is not pragmatically changed one bit by knowing anything I learned in these essays.
Wouldn't I do better to read a turgidly written article on how to invest money wisely or a book on how to make and cultivate contacts or how to prioritize and maximize, and how to be a more productive person.
(“Many Mansions”)She was a child on the Wisconsin prairie who played with china dolls and painted watercolors with cloudy skies because sunlight was too hard to paint and, with her brothers and sisters, listened every night to her mother read stories of the Wild West, of Texas, of Kit Carson and Billy the Kid. She told adults that she wanted to be an artist and was embarrassed when they asked what kind of artist she wanted to be: she had no idea “what kind.” She had no idea what artists did.
Reading Didion’s essays is not unlike unearthing a time capsule you didn’t know existed from a parallel universe that appears earthlike.
Whether we’re standing with her on Oak Street below the Black Panthers’ HQ receiving a visual pat-down, retracing author James Jones’ steps along the army barracks in Honolulu or mesmerized by the flashing lights of a California water station – we are viewing the world in a clarity that only she can properly express.
To brook an opposing view is an impossibility; it would shatter the magic and render the vibrant hue of the Didion world into workaday memories, pale, gray and dimensional as news viewed on library microfiche.
But another aspect of this collection irked me even more: Didion's all-encompassing weariness, her mild derision for seemingly everything and everyone with whom she crosses paths.
Even in her younger years, did Joan Didion ever get excited about anything, ever, even things she loved?
But in this book we also learn some personal things about Joan Didion: Over the years these essays encompass, she is admitted to a psychiatric hospital for what looks to be a combination of depression and anxiety.
So for me, the net effect of reading Didion's essays is a burning curiosity about Didion herself.
I didn’t love these essays until about the midpoint, “The Women’s Movement”, a devastatingly good piece about the watering-down of feminism in mid-century America, about the heartbreaking shift of a vitally important revolutionary movement as it lost touch with its ideological base and became ever more a vehicle appropriated by a leisure class, its goals moving away from seeking the possibility for an individual to create their own unique destiny unfettered by traditional obstacles and bias, and moving toward something like a seeking of the possibility for the mere prolongation of adolescence, a fear of growing up- more a form of escapism than a new form of liberation.

“We tell ourselves stories in order to live.”I love the ease with which Joan Didion writes, or at least it appears as such. It’s borderline conversational yet flawless. Here, she presents us mostly with snippets of 60s and 70s America. Such a fascinating time period. My favorite essay was the Georgia O’Keefe. I’m a fan. This was only my second Didion and I can’t wait to read more.
This is my first Joan Didion book, and for me, it's a hit and miss.
An enjoyable read and obviously a good writer, but I don't feel any sense of passion or deep interest.
I was curious to read "The White Album" because I live in Los Angeles.
I remember the Charles Manson times as being very scary in Los Angeles, and Didion captures those horrifying moments as it happened.
Didion captures the essence quite well, but it doesn't explain why one would feel dread.
It's hinted at but not fully explained.
And perhaps something like that can't be fully explained.
What I love: slå mig ner på ett kafé och sträckläsa en bok.Inleds med de bevingade orden "We tell ourselves stories in order to live".Lästips från detta radioprogram http://sverigesradio.se/sida/avsnitt/...
This undersung little book rates so highly with me that it very nearly earns my vote for the best writing by any modern-day American woman author. Period. [I would make it my #1 choice, but that honor goes to horror-authoress Shirley Jackson.] If we focus only on 20c. American  nonfiction ; then it is certainly my #1 favorite title--beating out all works by all other females, and also all males (David McCullough, Norman Mailer, Hunter Thompson, Tom Wolfe, Gore Vidal, etc) as well. Did you hear w
This undersung little book rates so highly with me that it very nearly earns my vote for the best writing by any modern-day American woman author.
I have put my admiration in as strongly worded terms as I possibly can.Here's the thing about Didion and why she's important: you can spend 10 or 15 yrs reading novel after novel..all these artisans crafting these elaborate and ornamental works of prose: but no one ever calls it all to a halt and starts simply speaking to you, the reader.
She writes concise collections of very personal essays, and aims them at you as if she was sitting right beside you.
I assume that Joan Didion's popularity stems from the fact that East Coast high society wanted New Yorker-style correspondent in the midst of California's sex, drugs, and rock & roll.
For Didion, however, creating carpool lanes wasn't forward thinking by Caltrans, it was symbolic of out-of-touch bureaucrats spending millions of dollars on projects that the citizenry did not want.
Lamenting the restrictions that Caltrans was placing on Southern Californian 'individual mobility' she practically cheers on the urban guerillas who pour paint and nails along the carpool lanes.I will try reading at least one other Didion book, perhaps a novel, but I won't be able to approach it with anything other than skepticism.
Un martedì mattina a casa sua | La graziosa Nancy Reagan, allora moglie del governatore della California, era in piedi nella sala da pranzo della sua casa in affitto sulla Quarantacinquesima Strada di Sacramento, e ascoltava un giornalista televisivo che le spiegava cosa voleva fare.
Dato che anch'io ero lì per vederla fare esattamente quello che avrebbe fatto di solito un martedì mattina a casa sua, sembravamo tutti sul punto di esplorare nuove frontiere dei media: il giornalista televisivo e i due cameramen potevano osservare Nancy Reagan osservata da me, o io potevo guardare Nancy Reagan che veniva osservata da loro tre, oppure uno dei cameramen poteva indietreggiare e fare uno studio di cinéma vérité sul resto di noi che osservavamo e venivamo osservati gli uni dagli altri.
We tell ourselves stories in order to live. I really loved the titular essay and thoroughly enjoyed the others. Some of this is kind of dated now, but don't let that put you off - I'd still highly recommend checking it out because of how fantastic Joan Didion's non-fiction writing is.
This was a struggle to get through. Some very boring to read essays (about how much she loves water?) interspersed with some gems.A disappointing read after Slouching Towards Bethlehem, which in my opinion is a much stronger (and dreamier) book of essays.
Even the essays she wrote in the late sixties and early seventies have some criticism in them, as if she didn’t get carried away by the way things were.Something I was not expecting was the very specific subjects she writes from time to time (from California’s water delivery system and the way the Hoover Dam works to an extension course in shopping-center theory offered by the University of California she took by correspondence when living in New York) and how fun it is to read her thoughts on all of these matters, and how excited she seems, and how well everything is written, and how it all seems very much calculated and she always seems to know where she’s headed.On the one hand I want to keep reading her stuff, but on the other I got to make my way through Greta Gerwig’s other nine desert island books, so I guess it’ll be a while until that happens.
“We tell ourselves stories in order to live .
We live entirely, especially if we are writers, by the imposition of a narrative line upon disparate images, by the ‘ideas’ with which we have learned to freeze the shifting phantasmagoria which is our actual experience .
But the strange thing is, I don’t love her journalistic essay books.
I didn’t like Slouching Towards Bethlehem, and I didn’t love this.
The less personal ones, the more journalistically framed Didion anthologies, just don’t grab me or connect with me on the same level.~~~~~BOOK RIOT'S READ HARDER CHALLENGE~~~~~#22: An essay anthology.
4.5 Everybody likes Didion.
All intelligent females I know like her.
All intelligent males I know would most likely like her, if they could be bothered to read more female authors.
What I did not expect - and what endeared her to me as soon as I realised what was going on - is that Didion is an obsessive nerd.
Not in the most traditional sense (there is no talk of Star Trek), but she’s capable of relentlessly focusing on everything from California water systems and traffic control to biker movies and the design of shopping malls.
Det fanns ett antal essäer i den här boken som var riktigt, riktigt bra, särskilt texterna i kapitlen The White Album, Women och On the Morning After the Sixties. Jag delar dock inte Didions fascination för vare sig akvedukter eller köpcentrum - läsningen av dessa var alltså inte lika läsvärda som de ovannämnda, tycker jag... Men över lag är The White Album en väldigt bra bok.
Dear Shevaun, You left a self-addressed envelope, the size of a note card, in the Duluth Public Library’s copy of “The White Album,” a collection of essays by Joan Didion.
I’m buying!” I don’t remember where you parked your envelope, but if this is the case I bet it is where Didion says: “I am a thirty-four-year-old woman with long straight hair and an old bikini bathing suit and bad nerves sitting on an island in the middle of the Pacific waiting for a tidal wave that will not come.” That’s the sentence I read over and over again while sitting at a tall top table at Subway, unsure of why it snagged my attention.
The title essay is wonderful..., a must read for Didion fans.
Essays from the late 1960's to the late 1970's. I skipped some of them.
We tell ourselves stories in order to live......We look for the sermon in the suicide, for the social or moral lesson in the murder of five. We interpret what we see, select the most workable of the multiple choices. We live entirely, especially if we are writers, by the imposition of a narrative line upon disparate images by the "ideas" with which we have learned to freeze the shifting phantasmagoria which is our actual experience. -"The White Album"Joan Didion can string a compound sentence f
Depending on your mood, you might want Joan to just write about the thing (friendship with Linda Kasabian, eating breakfast at Eldridge Cleaver's house, being in the studio with The Doors, working in the movie business), but Didion can't not write a serious think piece.
If she's affectionate towards anything, it's most often technology (the California highway grid, the Hoover Dam.) This segment from her essay "In the Islands" is pretty much the Didion Mission Statement:
Maybe, he says.
And this is as close as Joan Didion gets to optimism.
They're undeniably great, but did I want a cigar to just be a cigar sometimes?
By putting her reflections on political and social events in the context of her interests and activities at the time, the social impacts of the events are made more particular in an intimate way.
I couldn't help wondering that with each essay Didion dished up in this collection targeting the 60's.
She is gifted in stirring up a sense of significance between unrelated spheres of activity, in the same way we connect life events in memory with the coincidence of hearing a song from the Beatles or Dylan at the time.
Slouching revealed her terrific intelligence and acerbic tone, but the White Album is the next step after that.
Here, she also reveals bits of her personality, and not just the skeptic that bleeds through everything she does: you get a sense of her odd obsessions that no one else has, told with self-deprecating wit; her dry sense of humor; and a little vulnerability, as in her famous essay on migraines.
I'll expand this out more in the future, because I'm not sure how to review a collection of essays; suffice it to say that it's great for now.
I listened to this book in the audible format.
It seemed much about life in California and in other parts of the world.
I have never spent much time in those places so it sometimes seems interesting but it seemed to me that Joan spent much of her time in places and with people whom I would not much enjoy.
As a result I did not much enjoy this book.
Usually I like books about the 1960s and 1970s because those were times that were important in my life.
This book was an exception.
The White Album (1979) proved to me why writers still regard Joan Didion as the among the best crafter of observational essays in the U.S. While reading my library edition, a discounted e-audiobook version ($2) became available.
I have trouble maintaining the basic notion that keeping promises matters in a world where everything I was taught seems beside the point.
I vow to set aside time to sit down and write, revise, incorporate quotations, and write a legitimate review essay of The White Album.
How did we get from students who understood that the media was a business, run by corporations that were out for themselves to today where a vast segment of the American population believes that somehow the left controls the media.Someone once brought Janis Joplin to a party at the house on Franklin Avenue: she had just done a concert and she wanted brandy-and-Benedictine in a water tumbler.
It seems to me that the three of us—Eldridge Cleaver, his parole officer and I—mainly discussed the commercial prospects of Soul on Ice, which, it happened, was being published that day.
