https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28134.The_Eden_Express
The heart pounding, the hypersensitivity, delusions, world ending panic, extreme paranoia, the suicide attempts, talking to the demon, his girlfriend is dead, his father is dead, everyone-is-dead-including-Mark, the conspiracies, naked runs of catch-me-if-you-can, lost sense of time, the transcendence and going beyond, breaking windows, blackouts, good versus evil, life or death for himself, life or death for the entire species -- all of it up to him, all of it in his head -- all of it articulated in an enlightening manner.While Mark described his experience and what was going on in his head remarkably well, the most impressive and important trait of this memoir is its honesty.
It seemed the more patient I was, the more I had to be patient with.” — Mark Vonnegut, The Eden ExpressI find that it’s hard to review books when you love them completely and want to buy copies for everyone you know.
I end up just wanting to say read it read it read it — which probably isn’t very useful in a review.Mark Vonnegut is Kurt Vonnegut’s son, but as that is irrelevant to his book, I will only mention it to say: Mark’s style is nothing like his father’s.
1) It's the true account of the author's descent into madness (a complete schizophrenic breakdown and relapse) and, 2) Stories involving Kurt Vonnegut are abundant.
In one example, Mark mentions that even as a child, there was something about his father which made him be sure Kurt would commit suicide.
I can't imagine a child having that outlook about their father, and it forces you to look at some of Kurt's more somber and cynical books in a slightly different light.
Both as an extension of learning about Kurt Vonnegut and for the account of Mark losing his mind, I really enjoyed this.

I highly recommend reading Mark Vonnegut's two books in the order they were written, which I did not do--although I'll probably read the second one (Just Like Someone Without Mental Illness Only More So) a second time now.
Later he was upset with her for talking to him as if he was making sense when he was not--at this point he thought he was the messiah and the world was ending soon.
I also thought that he is more candid about Kurt Vonnegut's character in his second book which was written after his dad's death.
I was drawn to this one because I'm a big Kurt Vonnegut fan; in his memoirs KV mentions his son Mark's struggle with, and subsequent recovery from, schizophrenia in the early '70's.
Thankfully there's a happy ending.Kurt Vonnegut fans will appreciate hearing the "other side" of personal and family events that have been told in some of KV's most prominent works.
As fascinating as this one is, I think most people will need to read it in small doses, as the inside view of insanity (which comprises about 2/3 of the book) is mentally exhausting.
This book brought me on an existential trip. I actually had to stop reading it for a couple of days because I was living in the book instead of real life. Perfect for someone making a big life change, especially if that includes travelling or moving somewhere else. Intriguing look at schizophrenia and mental illness and what role that played in the age of rampant psychadellic drug usage
“Knowing that you’re crazy doesn’t make the crazy things stop happening.”This memoir chronicles Mark Vonnegut’s life living on a hippie commune farm in Canada; his battle and recovery from schizophrenic breaks. Much like his father, Mark is a talented and engaging writer. This story is open, uninhibited, and kind of bonkers.
3 1/2 stars. This memoir of one man's descent into schizophrenia, as it was diagnosed then, was first published in 1975, and republished in 2002. I had never read it, and am getting a copy of Just Like Someone Without Mental Illness Only More So: A Memoir   by the same author, so wanted to read the original before I read the followup.Mark was an idealistic, just-out-of-college hippie who thought starting a commune in British Columbia was a great idea. He was just trying to do the best he knew ho
I had never read it, and am getting a copy of Just Like Someone Without Mental Illness Only More So: A Memoir 
by the same author, so wanted to read the original before I read the followup.Mark was an idealistic, just-out-of-college hippie who thought starting a commune in British Columbia was a great idea.
A. in religion, genetic biochemical disposition to schizophrenia, setting up a commune in the wilds of British Columbia, things tended to run together.His journey, his wild ride was sometimes hard to distinguish from the behavior of other hippies of the time.
Reading this memoir is to accompany Mark Vonnegut in reliving a ‘psychotic episode’ which began after he left college and attempted to set up a self-sufficient farm in British Colombia.
Instead, it's as though it's to experience a milder version of his psychosis alongside him: unsure how quickly or slowly time is lapsing, unsure at times which events are real or imagined, and feeling his frustration.For me, this book was perspective-changing & deepening.
Heavy mostly due to the emotional roller coaster that comes in, the Eden Express might be able to make you relate to or at least truly empathize with what people who have schizophrenia go through....
A pleasant side effect was also me learning how to cope with a mood disorder.
Me having depression and anxiety, which, along with schizophrenia, are considered mood disorders, I gained insight as to how to cope and manage them.Overall a wonderful, honest treasure and an insightful read.
One of my favorite biographies; an era, a family, a unique life!The book charted Mark's descent into schizophrenia.
While it is not the total point of the book, Mark does see some benefit in his internment in returning him to sanity.
Just prior to each breakdown in the book, Mark was trying to reach out to people.
His girlfriend was gone, his father to successful to be reached...This really puts a different spin on Kurt Vonnegut, Jr. and makes him one of the many artists where I separate my love for the art from any appreciation for the man!
i would add this to the list of books i should have read years ago.
While i have not lived the experiences of the writer, much of the material-- theory, visions and perspectives-- parallels much of what has been resident in my head since leaving college.
I would recommend this tale to anyone who has ever felt driven to insanity by the world we face daily, or to those who have wanted to change or save the world, or to people who do not want or cannot blend with the herd or who have seen the apocalypse and can't just grin and bear it.
Holy moley. Could this man write like his father - but in an entirely opposite style. If you are from BC, you will especially like this, as it takes place on a commune near Powell River, and in Vancouver. I wrote "could" because his recent memoir is an utter disappointment. This is a speeding mind at its most intense. If you've ever felt overwhelmed, read this and know that you are far from overwhelmed.
Read this back in the '70s because the author is the son of one of my favorite authors, only to discover what a brilliant writer he is in his own right. While reading about his journey with schizophrenia, it felt like I haw crawled into his mind and was experiencing everything he was experiencing. This a book that stays with you years after you had read it.
At various points it felt as though it was me who was losing it.
Never before has a book so successfully made me feel like I was loosing my grip on reality. In doing such however, the author has made several sections of the book somewhat incomprehensible.
fascinating look beyond the walls of sanity, a self-portrait from a gifted writer
The Eden Express: A Memoir of Insanity is the story of a man named Mark Vonnegut.
This memoir tells the tail of Mark's journey through insanity.
Read this wonderful memoir to experience the journey of a man through insanity and back to be moved about how much things can change in very little time.I chose this book because not only had I just finished reading Slaughterhouse-Five, but I also have a big fascination with schizophrenia.
I enjoyed this book, but Mark Vonnegut just doesn't seem to say things about the world quite as well as his father does.
Vonnegut's acceptance of (the very WORST) medications--like sodium pentothal and thorazine--as a necessary part of his recovery seems motivated more by helplessness than wisdom, the poor guy, but that's only a guess.
I'm still trying to find out."  "From time to time I figured something like that might be going on.
I thought I was something making it to '54." "I guess I was just trying to be polite." "I'm pretty sure there really wasn't much of anybody left when you split.
just a bunch of bodies people left around that sat around reflecting you in funny ways .
Very petty, considering how she visited him at the psychiatric hospital and worked hard helping him adjust to life on the outside).How bad is the writing?
Clean me, clean clothes." This hardly lives up to the standards one might expect from a Vonnegut.Of personal interest to me was the author's extensive commentary on his experience as a religion major at Swarthmore in the 1960s.
For other readers who don't have any particular interest in this school, the Swarthmore focus might grate on the nerves.I understand that later in life, the author, by now a physician and a graduate of Harvard Medical School, wrote a much better book on the same subject.
Vonnegut, in the updated version of the book, acknowledges that what he actually had was more akin to bipolar disorder/manic depression than full blown schizophrenia.
I also wanted to read something by an author who had true insight about what going through the stages of illness and then treatment.
I'd recommend that anyone with mental illness read the letter, as it contains a myriad of bits of advice for those going in for treatment.
It could also give a little bit of insight for the family members and friends affected by the patient's disorder, whether it is schizophrenia or manic depression.
It seems sometimes that there is a direct relationship between how hard I try to be a good person and how sad I get about the world.
Mark Vonnegut became insane chasing a lot of the feelings I sometimes get caught up in.
During the 1960s he is very involved in being a "good hippie" (his words, not mine).
This is an amazing memoir, and I'm very glad I read it.
I related so much to his feelings about fidelity and love.
I'm very glad he was able to recover enough to write this book.
It reminded be of the movie A Beautiful Mind alot, except Mark was an upper middle class Swarthmore grad hippy in the early 70's, went up to BC, started a commune, didn't do to many drugs, and then cracked up went crazy, went to hollywood mental hospital a couple of times, some how got well, ended up going to medical school and now he has a PhD.
Mark really gets the insanity accross.
It's just a matter of being tuned to them." and "What do you do when you realize there is nothing to do?" good book
Before goodreads I didn't even know his son had written anything, but after reading the reviews on this book I decided to pick it up.The first half of this book Is just Mark Vonnegut describing life after college on his hippie commune with his hippie college friends and although the writing wasn't terrible, I had to push myself through because it was a pretty boring.
I was intrigued yet frightened; it evoked emotions that I've never experienced through books before, and in my teenage years I read quite a few books authored by people suffering from mental illness.
Kurt Vonnegut's son graduates from college circa '69 and goes off with friends to a farm in B.C. to live the hippie-new-society-commune dream.
But, oops, along the way he goes nuts!
That always throws a monkey wrench into the works.
This autobiographical work (sole book by Vonnegut Jr. as far as I know) provides a good glimpse into schizophrenia, but is perhaps equally valuable as a contemporary portrait of hippie life, culture & philosophy by a participant.
He indicts hippie culture to some extent as enabling him to go nuts, but only to some extent.
Very illuminating.
A beautiful, terrifying memoir about one man's descent into mania and insanity. As the only son of a father who was a paranoid schizophrenic, who died before I got a chance to know him and understand his condition, Vonnegut's book answered many questions I've had for a long, long time. What the disease does to the diseased, the consequences it has on friends and family, social and cultural implications...Vonnegut approaches all these themes and ideas while maintaining a cohesive narrative that is both entertaining and educational.
Relatively interesting autobiography of Vonnegut's son developing schizophrenia, while being part of the 70s counter-culture - realistic (albeit tiring) rambling of all the things that went through his head, and interesting reactions of his surroundings (something like "mental illness is a myth perpetuated by the man to keep us down"). It does get boring in endless descriptions of those people around him.Recommended for: those interested in what happens to people developing a mental illness
Far out, real life tale of Mark Vonnegut's initial bout with schizophrenia while living on a commune in British Columbia. He has a really hard time figuring out if he's discovered the meaning of life, has taken too many drugs, or is going insane. Reveals a bit about Mark's relationship with his father Kurt, too.Basically, the reason you should read this book is because it's so bizarre and spell-binding. Reminiscent of the late 60s, early 70s. Amazingly well written first-person perspective.
Read this book years ago, probably in 1975 or 1976. I had forgotten much of it and wanted to reread it because Mark Vonnegut has a more new book which promises to tell about his life after the Eden Express.Glad I read it again with a slightly better understanding of mental health/illness than I did when I first read it. Incidentally, the medical and psychiatric professionals have a slightly better understanding as well. So be sure to read the Afterword.
