https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4602683-the-weatherhouse
The success of that book has prompted the publication of this edition of her second novel, originally published in 1930.This is a story of a small community in rural Scotland (Shepherd was from Aberdeenshire) during the First World War. The Weatherhouse of the title is populated by a family of women - the 90-year old matriarch Lang Leeb and her three daughters (two spinsters and one widow).
The book contains a lot of Scottish dialect - there is a glossary but it only contains a small proportion of the many local words and phrases used, particularly in the dialogue.
Deeply moving - both in the perfection of its prose and the truth of its subject. One of the truly great writers of the land and of the women who struggle to live and love upon it.
Takes place in a rural region of Scotland; this novel is about the web of life, the people, the history, the birds, the land and sky.
He is alternately scared by the apparent darkness of the universe and surprised by the joy of the people who work the land who break out into spontaneous dance.
Nan Shepard has found an entertaining story to tell that is rich in meaning.
Her lyrical, beautiful language brings to life rural Scotland.
I discovered Shephard from a reference to her work in Robert Macfarlane's "The Old Ways." Funny how one good book leads to another.
The book begins with this female-dominated clan (which includes the middle sister Ellen’s daughter Kate), but in actuality, only Ellen is really important to the plot.
The book takes place during World War I, but in some senses, Fetter-Rothnie feels very distant from the war.
Ellen Craigmyle, on the other hand, thinks that Garry has the right of it and is determined to aid him in discrediting Louie Morgan.The idea of truthfulness is important in a novel in which mental fragility is all too common.
The Living Mountain is a glorious meditation upon the natural world, and I very much admired the way in which Shepherd's descriptions were able to build such a full picture of the Cairngorms, which she so adored.
As in The Living Mountain, the sense of place is built vividly from the outset, and Shepherd's imagery is beautiful.
She writes, for instance: 'On the willows by the pool the catkins were fluffed, insubstantial, their stamens held so lightly to the tree that they seemed like the golden essence of its life escaping to the liberty of air.'Shepherd's portrayal of the women who live in Fetter-Rothnie is fascinating in its shrewdness.
A moving and intense story set in rural Scotland during the First World War. The two main characters are women, largely overlooked by their family and neighbours, leading lives restricted by poverty or lack of opportunity, their dreams frustrated by their circumstances.
Both try to gain esteem in family and society with disastrous results.
I was gripped by the characters and their dilemmas, and by Ellen in particular, hopeful of an independent family life.
Ellen and Louie, their actions and motives, are written with great empathy and delicacy - heartbreakingly realistic.With thanks to Canongate via NetGalley for the chance to read this classic.
Vivid descriptions of the landscape and the effect it has on the characters. Different ways of life long gone described with humour and affection. Some of the dialect was a bit impenetrable, but it didn't spoil the enjoyment of the book.
I couldn't understand what anyone was saying, I didn't care much for the characters and the plot seemed entirely lacking.
The characters came to life in all their flawed humanity and what seemed such a mundane plot to carry through the book actually made a lot of sense when you understood the impact of it.
Perhaps if I were better versed in Scottish vernacular I would have enjoyed it more.
I'd urge anyone else who is struggling with this book to read it to the end.
I'm still thinking about the characters and how they felt and what it all meant...
It helped that the novel was by Nan Shepherd whose The Quarry Wood I enjoyed a year or so ago.
The story though, is more to do with how Garry Forbes, the intended of Lindsay Lorimer, in turn the daughter of Andrew, Lang Leeb’s cousin, came to become a proverb in Fetter-Rothnie.The former Minister’s daughter, Louie Morgan, claimed after Forbes’s friend David Grey had died in the Great War that she and Grey had been secretly betrothed and carries Grey’s mother’s ring about her neck as proof.
Forbes, home from the war as a convalescent, is convinced that can not be the case.
At first the dialect was difficult for me, but as I read on I began to be able to follow it and to enjoy its rhythms and trenchant expressions.
The main plot of the novel concerns a girl lying about her engagement to a dead soldier and stealing his mother's ring to support her pretence.
However the small events and interactions of the community are explored to show the difficulties of truth, compassion and understanding, connection with the real world that exist for people in microcosm and macrocosm.It is very much a book of its time.
Although short, I found this a very difficult book to read. The Scots dialect was in places impenetrable. The glossary at the back didn't include very much. The story of a Scottish community during the First World War was interesting - the emphasis on the women and how society was modernising. The descriptions of landscape were amazing. Nonetheless, it was not a novel I will recommend to others.
This book is definitely of its time, with a rather old-fashioned moral dilemma at its heart, and some odd and quirky characters to boot. It is well-written, but the passages relating to some of the characters' relationships to the natural world truly sing. Reading this book has inspired me to go on to read Nan Shepherd's nature writing which, if the aforementioned passages are anything to go by, should be outstanding.
This was one of those books where I enjoyed it while reading, but never felt compelled to pick up. I let it lie for long periods, and I'm not sure it suffered for it. But the prose was wonderful and I did really enjoy the characters, which helped when the plot wandered between arcs seemingly at random.
Nothing to say, it was awful.
This wasn't as good as I expected it to be.https://piningforthewest.co.uk/2017/1...
Prose at its best
A bit dense in places and I found the Scottish dialect difficult in places, this book was received by the passages of good description.
A curious novel with fantastic characters, poetic language and beautiful moments of community. At times the language was impenetrable and the cast of players (with their multiple names) bamboozling, but the second half skipped along with wit and warmth.
