https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/151755.Cross_of_Iron
“We’re all the same here, he told himself; a handful of life trying to preserve itself like the candle light in the bunkers, a bundle of duties in uniform, feeling and thinking like human beings, but trained to act like automatons.” Well, I honestly don’t know what to say about this book.To say reading it was a bit of a slog would be doing it a great disservice and one that would be unfair. So, because I’m a crazy kid and whatnot, I’m going to split this book into two. Not the review.No no.The
(TBJD) The second book I will be reviewing will be known as Cross of Iron: The Book Jo Liked.
(TBJL)Because this book made me feel conflicted something rotten.I’m going to start with TBJD.
I think out of all the men in this book I liked about three of them.
I really loved the conversations and banter between the men.
And even though I didn’t particularly like any of the characters, I loved them as a whole.
The german, second platoon, fighting in russia is fighting a loosing battle.
The platoon is led by corporal Steinner, who is later promoted to senior sergeant.
This is the second world war and Germany is loosing.
The men are afraid, but they have to fight.
A group of eleven, which forms tbe second platoon form the subject of the novel.
He leads a group of ten men who dont have the experience required during war.
He symbolises the brutality of world war two.
He symbolises the determination of the german troops.
This novel will give you a glimpse of what happened during world war two.
Protagonist Steiner is everything that it takes, resourceful, courageous, reliable, except he hasthis rebellious streak in which he possesses this certain dislike of authority, especially for those officers who will get you killedfor their false glory.Although Heinrich followed this work up with other very good novels, I think he put all he had in this one and it is an excellent read, a mix of philosophies, combat, motivations, and the drudgery of soldiering.When I read this in my twenties it enthused me to get others to follow up.
My good buddy Bob read it and afterward we always thought of ourselves as Steiner and his comrade Schnurrbart.
Cross of Iron is considered one of the classic combat novels about the Eastern Front in World War Two. First published in 1955 (German) and translated in 1956, it is written by Willi Heinrich, who served with the 101st Jäger Division from 1941-45 and was wounded five times.
The setup is very nicely done, tracing Steiner’s personal and collective battles, especially his relationship with his platoon members and Captain Stransky, his aristocratic battalion commander who desires the coveted cross of iron but does not want to earn it.
This is an Anti-war novel based upon the author's actual experiences fighting in the German Wermacht on the Russian Front during the waning days of WWII.
Steiner throws the book away and relies on his own prowess to bring his platoon safely back to the German lines all the while fighting the elements, the Russians, and treachery from his own Company Commander.
The aristocratic Captain Stransky comes from a military family.
Stransky will do anything to get it....
This book plants you in the center of what was arguably the worst fighting in WWII.
While the movie was good, the book is far better!

I grew up as a child watching the film which was inspired by this book, so I immediately fell into the trap while reading this book years later as a teen attempting to over lap the two stories.
I am a fan of both the film and the book and while they are in some ways the same story they certainly differ.The story feels authentic, perhaps in part due to the authors own experiences in the Hell that was the Eastern Front.
The book is a strong narrative and really allows you to slip into the helpless world which the characters find themselves.

If you can find this book, it is worth your time. Excellent war fiction from an entirely different perspective and it is a real page-turner. I've read it several times and will likely read a couple more times.
Although the author has an annoying, to me at least, tendency to tell the reader the outcome of an event and then go back and show what happened, what holds this rather diary-like account of combat at the front together as a story is the feud between Steiner and Stransky which builds throughout the novel until a confrontation at the end.
The ending is thematically similar to the film, leading up to a confrontation between Steiner and Stransky, but in detail it is quite different.
Inspired by Das Boot, I wanted fiction to be the place where we need to examine our traumas and most formative experiences.
But I want to stress it, because all that lack of clarity prevents Steiner from getting to his most interesting questions and themes.For example, here is something amazing: The hero of Das Boot and Fleisch is basically the same guy!
But the Eastern Front and Steiner don't have that easy escape from responsibility.Concerning the title, The Patient Flesh, and Steiner's dogged use of the informal address (Du) with just about everyone: Heinrich seems like he is pursuing an interesting vestige of Lutheran thought.
A powerful WW2 novel told from the perspective of a German infantry platoon. It also details the conflicts and different attitudes of the various officers and the impact of their actions on the front line troops.
But "Cross of Iron" substitutes the innocent, youthful protagonist of the earlier work with the steely, iconic Sergeant Steiner and that makes it a superior work, in my estimation.Originally published as "Das Geduldige Fleisch" (The Willing Flesh), "Cross of Iron" is set in the waning days of World War 2, as the collapsing German Army retreats across the Taman peninsula in the Russian Front.
Steiner leads the platoon back through enemy lines to rejoin their unit, where he finds he has a new commanding officer, a preening martinet named Stransky.
Most of the rest of the novel alternates between Steiner's battle of wills with Stransky and the platoon's struggle to survive the deterioriating situation.
Throughout it all, Steiner drives and berates his men, defies his superiors, and above all survives.
This one is a re-read but the first reading was a long time ago.Another one that's been hanging around the 'to read' pile with intent.
I found the writing style took a little time to get into but not enough to put me off.
It tells the same story as other books on war that I've read.
No matter what 'side' they are on.I can't say the book is enjoyable but that's solely the fault of the subject matter.
I'll be keeping the book and will probably come back to it in the future at some point.3.5 pawprints out of 5.
This is an excellent blend of fact and fiction written by a man who experienced the war on the Eastern Front from the German perspective.
Willi Heinrich fought in the unit he writes about in this exploration of the German soldier's experience.Sergeant Steiner leads his rag tag platoon from rear guard action to rear guard action as the German army retreats in the wake of the Russian counter offensive that would ultimately end in Berlin itself.
Most German units faced a mortality rate of 700%, experienced soldiers replaced on a daily basis with fresh faces, unprepared for life on the front and on the run.
The reader may find it mildly curious to be reading from the German point of view in a novel about the second world war but as the antagonists are Russians, it is almost as if the action exists apart from the war as it is normally imagined by a Western reader.
Most of us no doubt come to the book after having seen the Peckinpah directed film based on the novel.
The passages where Steiner is being treated behind the lines suffer as, interestingly, they do in the film and there are certain other disparities.
En la Segunda Guerra Mundial y en el Ostfront, el sargento Steiner está al mando de un pelotón alemán al que se le asigna la misión de permanecer en las posiciones que ocupaba el regimiento mientras este se retira a Krimskaia bajo la presión del avance soviético.
Steiner hará lo necesario para cumplir su misión sin convertirse en pasto de las balas del enemigo, llegando al nuevo lugar de despliegue.
Lo iremos conociendo a él, a sus hombres y a varios de los oficiales superiores, todos con personalidades y comportamientos muy diferentes, entre los que destacará el capitán Stransky por su animadversión hacia Steiner.¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers?
So "The Cross of Iron" (originally titled "The Willing Flesh," but the English title has been changed to fit the movie that was made from the book in 1977) is a more disturbing read for the English-speaking reader than your average war novel: the characters are all fully alive, and that plus the way the action is handled means we can't help but want them to make it back alive, even though they're fighting for an unjust cause most of them don't believe in, and have to hurt and kill Allies in order to achieve their aim and be able to hurt and kill more Allies.
Millions, serving opposing blood mad sociopaths, slaughtered each other in a war that has left its mark for good and ill, on this planet.
The Naked and the Dead, From Here To Eternity,and The Thin Red Line deglorified the American effort.
But winners can tell any story they want.
The German officers like von Manstein who wrote their autobiographys about their experiences in Russia belonged to the class the protagonist Steiner came to hate.
This and the some what dubious 'autobiography' The Forgotten Soldier by Guy Sajer tell an infantryman's tale of trying to earn the greatest medal of all; surviving in one piece.
I used to own a first edition of this book which I'd read many times, but recently removed it from my library. The book has repetitive, shallow plot lines and doesn't have much to say about war. War is bad.On my latest reading, I started to wonder if some of the weak dialog was a problem with the translation from German.Sorry, can't recommend this one...On the other hand I highly recommend the film directed by Sam Peckinpah, featuring James Coburn, James Mason and Maximilian Schell.
A depleted German platoon in Russia during WWII under their Sergeant Steiner.A new captain arrives, 
This is an amazing book. Other war sttories such as Birdsongby Sebastian Faulks and of course All Queit on the Western Front. For me this is as good as any. It is unusual in being written by a German author and fro ma German perspective. The morals ans the sympathies portrayed are way ahead of their time, whether it be regarding freedom, sexuality or politics. This is a fascinating book in so many respects. The battle scenes themselves seem very realistic and the story is ver engaging. Steiner i
This is an amazing book.
Other war sttories such as ´Birdsong´by Sebastian Faulks and of course All Queit on the Western Front.
For me this is as good as any.
It is unusual in being written by a German author and fro ma German perspective.
The morals ans the sympathies portrayed are way ahead of their time, whether it be regarding freedom, sexuality or politics.
This is a fascinating book in so many respects.
The battle scenes themselves seem very realistic and the story is ver engaging.
Steiner is a great hero.I read this book in German which was a challenge but well worth it!
This is a classic which I first read when I was so young that my parents worried that it was too "adult" . 50 years later it is still a good read.. And note that Heinrich was a veteran of the war he wrote about and felt no need to pretty it up. This classic should be preserved in every library. Put it in yours..This will always be my image of the eastern front, a doomed army ground down in a bad cause. Facing an enemy they cannot surrender to.
A vivid book about life and death in the German army in Russia as the tide turns against them. The hero fights on for his fellow solders even as he knows the war itself is pointless. This is a great military novel.
36 Years ago.I first read this book 36 years ago. I learn more and get more out of this book every time I read it. I believe that this book should be required reading in all high schools in the US.
Another military story from Heinrich. An excellent book, told from the perspective of the German soldier in World War II. Heinrich fought in Russia during that war and writes with superb authenticity.
An interesting read about a German platoon fighting on the Eastern Front of WW2. There are two conflicts going on, German v. Russian and a German Cross of Iron recipient v. an incompetent German wanna be.
Truly fantasticWonderful story that humanizes German soldiers on the eastern front. Heartbreakingly realistic descriptions of men at war. Highly recommended. Especially for WW2 aficionados
Non è brutto, per nulla. A tratti l'ho trovato molto avvincente. però ... boh ... non mi ha convinto completamente. Darei 3,5 stelle
Expertly writtenThe author is a masterful writer. The stories are complex and compelling. The characters are well developed and the attention to detail is wonderful.
