https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/294043.Excavation
Excavation, James Rollinsعنوان: ویرانه های معبد؛نویسنده: جیمز رولینز (رالینز)؛ مترجم: هادی امینی؛ تهران، تندیس، 1396؛ در 456 ص؛ شابک: 9786001823145؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان امریکایی - سده 21 م
Excavation, James Rollinsعنوان: ویرانه‌ های معبد؛نویسنده: جیمز رولینز (رالینز)؛ مترجم: هادی امینی؛ تهران، تندیس، 1396؛ در 456 ص؛ شابک: 9786001823145؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان امریکایی - سده 21 م
ছোটবেলা থেকেই যেসকল জিনিস এর পরতি আগরহ আমার তার মধযে একটা হল আরকিওলজি বা পরতনততব। পুরানো সভযতা নিয়ে এই আগরহের কারণেই এই সংকরানত বইগুলো আমি গোগরাসে গিলে ফেলি । আর বই পড়ার দিক থেকে আমার অনযতম পছনদের জনরা হল থরিলার । তাই যখন এই বই এর সিনোপসিস পড়ি তখন থেকেই পড়ার ইচছা ছিল বইটার । কিনতু কোথাও বইটার হারডকপি খুজে পাচছিলাম না । সেদিন নীলকষেতে গিয়ে হঠাত করেই দেখি যে লোকাল পরিনট বের অয়ে গিয়েছে বইটার ।সাথে সাথেই কিনে ফেলি । জেমস রোলিনস ভদরলোকের সাথে আমার পরথম পরিচয় তার Amazonia বইটার মাধযমে । পরথম বই পড়েই ফ

This is the first James Rollins book I have read and I can safely say that after this venture there are going to be more James Rollins books in my future.
The book opens with a Dominican priest almost 500 years in the past on the run form a group of Inca warriors and his attempt to sent a message to the world about an unknown evil.
The second group is headed by Henry's nephew Sam and deals with their startling discovery of a yet unexplored room with in the folds of the lost mountain city and the secrets beyond it.
The situation with Henry and Joan was fine, but more of a mystery suspense leg and at the point where Rollins is usually working the clutch and shifting up, he brought in the secret tribe took them in and the action that had gotten going in the lower city/temple, inside the caves, bleed away back into mystery, adventure and suspense.
I believe he includes a lot of different things and the term “nanobot” refers more to the micro-unit’s function, however (view spoiler)[, at the end of this one we find out that maybe these are the “Nano-bots” like those that came out in the series X-Files (of course they have been in science fiction books for a long time).
Rather, I should say, "I think I liked it" as I read it while heavily medicated (after a surgery and while in a hospital bed).
I've read other books by this author which I've enjoyed and this book did help pass the time, so thanks Mr. Rollins as I did need all distractions possible.
Oddly, I found myself craving a TRUE archeology adventure, so I am now reading "The Lost City of the Monkey God" by Douglas Preston.
So to Mr. Rollins, thanks again for inspiring me to explore a new genre!
Not so much.Although it is in his usual pseudo sci-fi style of writing which I have no problem with, I don't know whether the reason I wasn't really that sold on this one is due to the rather ridiculous (even for him) plot devices used, that fact that it's not one of his Sigma Force novels (best described as scientists with guns) and so lacks that over-reaching plot strands that connects all those novels, or (more likely) that he seems to share the common American misconception of my home town of Belfast as being (almost) a bombed out Beirout.
What an adventure! If the synopsis for this book doesn't intrigue you then nothing I can say will do the trick. I love archaeology mysteries and James Rollins just never disappoints. It's thrilling and educational all at the same time. You learn some new facts about the Incas and their customs while taking you through some "Hold on to your chair" life threatening situations. Mystery addicts, adventure addicts, and those that just love a good book will thoroughly enjoy this one.
Tannaz Forouhar:"همه مردم اختیار دارند پروفسور کالکین. همین اختیار ما رو نجات می ده یا نابود می کنه."( ویرانه های معبد- جیمز رولینز- انتشارات تندیس)
dialogues don't work, characters are a bit too one-dimensional, cliché building on cliché, and don't forget to mention the sudden appearance of zombie-like humanoid things, dwelling in subterranean locations.
- the bats of course are also evil and attack our main characters), filled with albino actacking spiders...
Centuries old Incas with a horrifying truth lying hidden and more little bit over the top actions.What got me most, apart from the zombie-like creatures (that are always 'drooling foam from their mouths'), were the 'love stories'.
Too obvious, and sooo bad, especially the dialogues between the characters in question; "Keep walking ahead of me and I'll be plenty warm" Seriously?!Further more, don't get me started on the ending..
His homosexuality had no purpose in the book other than to make readers read about homosexuals as a character.
The main character, a rough cowboy-type named Sam, gets the girl in the end.
Even the Catholic church is, without surprise, the bad guys (at least the sect represented in the book).
Even the resurrection of Sam at the end could be seen coming from a mile away, and the potential suspense of Joan's survival or death was wasted.If you are looking for a book to read because you have nothing else, you'll make it through this one alright.
a outstanding novel. its 2nd book of james rollins as i read. a great bookish Rizwan vai suggested me   once to read. that book amazed me so did this one. i wish this writer will continuously keep me in the loop.if any body like techno-thriller with historical/fantasy background he/she should give James Rollins a try. happy reading.cheers!!!
James Rollins has really been filling that archaeological-action-adventure-thriller niche in my library.
Although it could be ridiculously melodramatic in places, Excavation was even better than his first book, Subterranean.
It also rolled along at a brisker pace - I didn't have the need to skim like I did with Subterranean.
Rollins is a fun author; his books aren't high literature, but they're certainly lots of fun.
The only downside is that his characters only exist for the action.
I'd love it if he could come up with some memorable characters like Douglas Preston and Lincoln Child do in their collaborations.
James Rollins is one author whose laundry list might also become a best-seller (if he pursues it), and the reasons were pretty obvious to readers like us who had read him when he were only marking his presence.
This novel was a "winner" right from the first page, and when it finally concluded (with sufficient hints that may be elongated into a sequel at a later phase) like many other readers I had also realised that I had been holding my breath for some time.
It is a very good read (Rollins' usual high standard), and might make several readers keenly interested in the history of South America and its bloody colonisation by the Spaniards & the Portugese.
I'm beginning to love James Rollins.
He merges the Adventure antics of Clive Cussler (minus the bromance) and the contemporary Sci-Fi Horror found in the best novels by Michael Crichton.
I loved his book Subterranean and I enjoyed this book even more.
I've been eying Deep Fathom and after this, I'm definitely going to check it out.While a bit more epic in scope, I believe I also have to draw parallel between Rollins work and that of Douglas Preston & Lincoln Child.
While their beloved Pendergast Series is more character driven, if you're a fan of any of their stand-alone novels, you'll definitely dig Excavation.
কলপনা আর বিজঞানকে খুব লজিকযালি মেশাতে বোধহয় সবচেয়ে ভাল পারেন জেমস রোলিনস। যাদুকরী আর অবিশবাসয সব তথযকে বিজঞানে ফেলে খুব বিশবাসযোগয রুপ দেন তিনি, এ জায়গায় হয়তো সবার চেয়ে সেরাই রোলিনস।শুরুতেই সযাম আর তার দল একটা গুহায় আটকে পড়ে, গলপের গতি মনথর করে রেখেছিল। কিনতু গুহা থেকে বেরনোর পর গতি ছিল বাঁধনহারা। শুরুর এক/দেড়শো পৃষঠা পড়ে বইটা ফেলে রাখলে ভুলই করতাম ভীষণ।“আমাজনিয়া” ছিল আমার পড়া, জে.আর এর পরথম বই। “আমাজনিয়া”র সাথে সাদৃশয পেলাম যেন একটা জায়গায় “একসকযাভেশন” এ। তবে সেটা খারাপ লাগেনি খুব একটা আর একেবা
কল্পনা আর বিজ্ঞানকে খুব লজিক্যালি মেশাতে বোধহয় সবচেয়ে ভাল পারেন জেমস রোলিন্স। যাদুকরী আর অবিশ্বাস্য সব তথ্যকে বিজ্ঞানে ফেলে খুব বিশ্বাসযোগ্য রুপ দেন তিনি, এ জায়গায় হয়তো সবার চেয়ে সেরাই রোলিন্স।শুরুতেই স্যাম আর তার দল একটা গুহায় আটকে পড়ে, গল্পের গতি মন্থর করে রেখেছিল। কিন্তু গুহা থেকে বেরনোর পর গতি ছিল বাঁধনহারা। শুরুর এক/দেড়শো পৃষ্ঠা পড়ে বইটা ফেলে রাখলে ভুলই করতাম ভীষণ।“আমাজনিয়া” ছিল আমার পড়া, জে.আর এর প্রথম বই। “আমাজনিয়া”র সাথে সাদৃশ্য পেলাম যেন একটা জায়গায় “এক্সক্যাভেশন” এ। তবে সেটা খারাপ লাগেনি খুব একটা আর একেবারে শেষের ফিল্মিটাচ তো দারুণ ছিল।
The plot was just too preposterous for me. It also had awkward romances and a constant stream of threats, dangers, spiders, etc. followed by inevitable escapes. I did not enjoy any of this. The exploding mummy at the very beginning of the book was a nice touch though.
"Excavation" is the type of novel I can't turn down -- jungle adventure, ruins exploration, and intrigue.
Honestly, as a fan of pulp fiction, I find Rollins to be a real master of resurrecting its best features, and presenting them to a new audience with just enough scientific facts to make his stories seem like they could really happen.This book takes you into the jungles of South America, high in the Andes, where an ancient mummy of strange attributes has been discovered.
You must know that before picking up this book.
His dialogue is stilted and cheesy, his characters lack character, his romances taste like a corn and cheese casserole.
In short, its cheesy.
If one is willing or able to wade through the sticky cheese fondue, however, they will find an entertaining adventure at the core.
This book is every Indiana Jones-type adventure ever written.
It is pure and undiluted adventure fiction, not well-written but amusingly entertaining nonetheless.
The kind of book that you bring on a weekend vacation and breeze through in a day or two.
It's basically an Indiana Jones type story (main character has a hat, a female love interest and a kid that saves his butt multiple times) that consists of action after action scene filled with just over the top scenarios with no breaks in between.
Well it has it's moments...just needs better characters and maybe LESS action to make the action that's there more interesting and exciting.
I've got one more Rollins book sitting on my shelf to read at some point, but something tells me it will just be more of the same.
Excavation By James Rollins Smoothie Review James Rollin is the a master of treasure hunting, tomb raiding adventures as Ludlum is to spy novels and as Crichton is to science fiction. It is a bit of a tall claim. But this is my fourth book I’ve read by him and so far it proves to be true. He has not proven me wrong with the exception of the Sigma force novels. So now I’m about knee deep into the James Rollins novels and the latest adventure is called Excavation. So what is it about? It centers o
Excavation By James Rollins Smoothie Review	James Rollin is the a master of treasure hunting, tomb raiding adventures as Ludlum is to spy novels and as Crichton is to science fiction.
So now I’m about knee deep into the James Rollins novels and the latest adventure is called Excavation.
The temple into the mountain goes to the source of the “blood of the devil,” And it is no surprise that in and professor Conklin’s and Sam’s path intertwine.
The team is stuck inside living on limited supplies, facing cave dwelling creatures and booby traps as Conklin’s side foreshadow things to come and reveal secrets behind the temple.
If you like adventure novels.
After "The De Vinci Code" - this was one book that I really could not put down - I was actually running with the characters!!! By the last chapter I "was feeling" a little let down - for it was sounding so unreal - BUT by the time I was reading the last three pages - I was completely floored for it really made sense to me - one of the best reads in a long long time!!!I love James Rollins and I am going to make sure I have all his books!!! :D
Well that escalated quickly.The beginning of the book was pretty good and promising but it quickly went downhill and just became worse and worse.
The discovery of the door and the exploding mummy set up the story well and I thought that this was going to be a good book..
Well guess again.We went from a collapsed temple because of course some stupid character would have been in charge of the dig, to tarantula's, to monsters in a necropolis, to a still intact and living Incan village with a leader that has supposedly been dead for 400 years, to Sam dying but then brought back to life by the alien metal...
I have absolutely no knowledge of Incan civilizations, and took the "facts of history" (references of religious rites, language etc) given in the story for mere face value.
Keeping him alive till the end, without any significant contributions belittled him as a mere prop, a final salvation on behalf of his ancestors.The three main characters of Henry, his nephew Sam and his colleague Maggie form the power trio on whom bulk of action is loaded onto.
Had the author dispensed off other characters which were used as mere ornaments, the story would not have lost any depth.
It only took me 206 pages to realize I had read this adventure tale many many years ago and I hadn't documented it. A mummified priest is found in an unlikely location in Peru. Gold that isn't gold? A Roman Catholic secret group in the lineage of the Inquisitors. Yes, I finished reading the entire book again. Rollins always gives you a good adventure.
But the story tells us that they met at university, dated a little, lost touch, married other people and are now a widower and a divorcee respectively.
EXCEPT that the book explicitly tells us that Henry had his 60th birthday the previous year and that Joan is 48.
Which means that when she started university, he was 30, and it's slightly implausible that they lost touch because he went to a different school to do his Masters.
Plus, the idea of them dating when she's a teenager and he's a grown-ass man is kind of creep-tastic.
It's fun, but will sap your suspension of disbelief well quite dramatically.
This book didn't do it for me, even tho it is in the same style of all the books I love by him, especially the SIGMA Force novels.
Rollins writes book that I would call a blend of the Sci-Fi, Action, and Techno-thriller genres.
This book had all of those elements but the story never hooked me.
It was like he was trying to over complicate things and add unnecessary elements to keep the reader in suspense and add length to the novel.
If this was the 1st Rollins novel, I doubt I would pick up another one.
In a laboratory in the United States a professor awaits a mummy from an Inca excavation his nephew Sam is doing.
The mummy turns out to be a monk, with a cross around his neck.
The cross bears mysterious scribbles.At the same time Sam and the rest of the excavation team are in the process of discovering a temple.
They are not alone in wanting to discover treasures and have traitors in their midst.
Through a series of bad luck they discover a hidden valley and things far beyond their wildest imagination.
I've read and enjoyed several of Rollins' novels and this one followed along the same formula.
(If you read them all in succession, I can see how it can get old and predictable, but every once in awhile I find myself in the mood for this type of suspense).
However, while I enjoyed the history and scientific aspect, much of this book seemed really far-fetched.
Fortunately, for me, the epilogue kind of saved the book.
I was just expecting it to keep the book open-ended, which it did, but it also gave an explanation to the events/circumstances in the book that made sense to me.
So it ended up on the positive side.

A bit of an Indiana Jones type of adventure/ thriller, along with ancient booby traps and lots of spiders. Ignoring my scepticism regarding the likely hood of the traps still working after 400 years, and whether anyone really could make anything so complex, this was a fast paced enjoyable thriller. Just enough detail to make you either like or despise the characters, and, for me, a good plot. I'm not sure about the ending; I liked it initially, but the more I think about it the less happy with it I am!
