https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41015154-the-bookshop
Notwithstanding her innocuous kindness, in her optimist denial and determination, Florence refuses to give in to the lady’s wishes, and gossip, class and money issues, political and legal machinations and a poltergeist will sweep the small community in the battle of local loyalties, independency of spirit and authority.She blinded herself, in short, by pretending for a while that human beings are not divided into exterminators and exterminates, with the former, at any given moment, predominating.
The courage and endurance, which lay sheltered under the industrious shields of Christine, her 10-year old meticulous assistant, Ivy, her volatile-but-ethical accountant, Raven, the vagabond-but-helpful marshman and Wally, the mischievous courier boy-cum-cleaner came under trenchant attacks from the ill-disposed but politically powerful Mrs. Gamart, the supine-but-acerbic TV anchor, Milo and well, even the ‘poltergeist’ at the ‘Old House’.
Florence fights, valiantly, through bundles of unsold stock, dwindling helping hands, dilapidating premises, legal impediments and shrinking hope.
Because people who love books and bookshops are much like them: they don’t believe in ends...
Sjusamillabakka There is strength and beauty in the margins, where we easily, maybe deliberately, fail to look. While I was reading this, I came across an archaic Shetland fishermen’s taboo word, sjusamillabakka, for the shifting, liminal space betwixt land and sea. Sjusamillabakka is perfect for this book:• Geographically: set in a small, remote coastal town, on an island between sea and river.• Connectedly: every fifty years or so “it had lost, as though careless or indifferent to such things,
Sjusamillabakka is perfect for this book:•	Geographically: set in a small, remote coastal town, on an island between sea and river.•	Connectedly: every fifty years or so “it had lost, as though careless or indifferent to such things, another means of communication” (river navigability, bridge, railway, and tidal wall).•	Chronologically: between the starchy 50s and the swinging 60s.•	Socially: a town with clear class boundaries - except for Florence.
They had taken on too much.”Don’t judge“‘Are you talking about culture?’ the [bank] manager said, in a voice half way between pity and respect.”Few want to admit to class-based snobbery, but is cultural or literary snobbery any different?I was reading this in a small amphitheatre.
Reading this in conjunction with other nominees for the 1978 Booker Prize, like Jane Gardam's God on the Rocks and Kingsley Amis's Jake's Thing, really does give you this impression of 70s England as a place of small towns, insular gossip, hostility to new ideas, and a preoccupation with quotidian concerns over any sense of the wider world.
In a sense, fair enough – but one does slightly yearn for a little more ambition and pizzazz in the novelling world.
A small village, Hardborough, hardly surviving the harsh salted air and erosion of the ocean, becomes the choice for a new book shop to be opened by a widow, Florence Green.
By all intentions, in 1959, it could have been an asset to the town, but it is soon obvious that Mrs. Green overstepped social boundaries by buying a building that Mrs. Violet Gamart, wife of general Gamart RET, wanted for other purposes.
Small town politics are seldom for sissies.It is a weird book, since the ending is unexpected.
I so wanted her, Mrs. Green, to live happily ever after.
I think this ending reminds me too much of our own realities which we so often want to escape.
The main reason this book almost didn't get finished (I would have abandoned if it wasn't so short), is that it was boring.
The ending is a mega letdown too, not just because life can suck for fictional characters as well as readers, but because: (view spoiler)[ the most hated woman in the book gets her way and never gets whats coming to her; someone who stands up and does what's right and sweet (heart putter) doesn't get acknowledgment, and in fact the heroine never even learns he stood up for her...
Un caramelo envenenado.Parece un libro sencillo, alegre y divertido sobre la vida en un pueblecito y se descubre como una descripción descarnada de las luchas de poder en las poblaciones pequeñas, siempre conservadoras y deudoras de los poderes establecidos, de los caciques de costumbre.Abstenerse gente que crea en un mundo mejor, o que le frustre que las personas que se lo merecen no siempre reciban lo que se merecen.
I started to read this because I was in the mood for a cozy book about a quaint English village bookshop, but soon found out I was in for something else altogether.
While there are those touches of quaint cozy English village life (of which I know nothing personally), it's mainly about the rancor and spite that rises to the surface of the village when the bookshop opens.
This is a remarkable story about an ordinary woman, Florence Green, who in 1959, decides to open a bookshop in a small East Anglia coastal town - Hardborough.
Does she succeed though?
All I will say is that she had to contend with local opposition.
Their love of books gave them one incentive - to encourage everyone to read.I've never forgotten the comment from one Goodreads' friend: "I prefer writing over plot".
The story in itself is somewhat pedestrian but there is something in Penelope Fitzgerald's writing style that transcends all of that.
She brings to life prose that is lyrical and fascinating.Such a well-written book.
Sometimes a book ends in such a depressing way that I struggle to recall what went before.
This is one of those books.
It makes it difficult to write a balanced review but I will try.I did enjoy most of the book.
The author writes really well and there are many light moments where she exposes the truth of human nature.
This makes it all the more surprising when, right at the end of the book, things take an unexpected turn.
It is a realistic ending and one which probably helped get the book listed for an award.
Rating: 5* of fiveThe Publisher Says: In 1959 Florence Green, a kindhearted widow with a small inheritance, risks everything to open a bookshop - the only bookshop - in the seaside town of Hardborough.
It was Thursday, early closing, and it seemed ungrateful to live so close to the sea and never look at it for weeks on end.It's always seemed odd to me how many people I know here in my own seaside city who simply don't pay the slightest attention to the ocean that surrounds us!Mrs Green has failed to do one crucial thing in opening her shop: Get the town's Great and Good on side.
I am grateful that the ten-and-a-half-year-old Christine, the shop assistant, is woven into the story.
The whole story is told over a short passage of a few months from 1959 to 1960 in a small Suffolk town on the North Sea. It is interesting to note that the author herself owned a bookshop!
This is less a story about books than about people.
I wanted to be sure to catch e-v-e-r-y single word.The audiobook has a short preface written by Harmione Lee, but read by Stephanie Racine.
There is also an insubstantial introduction written and read by David Nicholls.
For sure, no one ever feels alone in a bookshopbook shop is a dream come true for a woman who loves readinga middle aged woman who has passion and persistencebut while the beginnings are always promising, the ends are quite different
RereadAccording to the oldest man in the village, until Florence Green (our main character) opens a bookstore, there hasn’t been a bookshop in Hardborough (sounds Dickensian, doesn’t it?) since Dombey and Son was being published in installments.
Hardborough’s banker, certainly condescendingly, writes to Florence (Green, that is, not Dombey): If over any given period of time the cash inflow cannot meet the cash outflow, it is safe to predict that money difficulties are not far away, a statement which is pure Micawber (he of David Copperfield).
I agree; but for me the saddest thing in the book is Florence believing a lie told by the meanest woman in the village about that old man.
The cruelties and resentments of village life are recurrent themes in their work -- a good illustration is one of de Maupassant's earliest and best-known stories,  Boule de Suife , which paints a devastating picture of the meanness and nastiness that characterizes the behavior of the powerful towards those they perceive as being lower in the social pecking order.
It's not a particularly uplifting view of human behavior, but de Maupassant is so convincing that you don't doubt him for an instant.I haven't read any other fiction by Penelope Fitzgerald, but "The Bookshop", a novel of only 120 pages (but of staggering brilliance), immediately places her in the same league as de Maupassant.
Tem também uns livros para emprestar da categoria A, B e C.
O que mais me impressionou foi quando um amigo lhe sugeriu - para aumentar as vendas - que encomendasse alguns exemplares de Lolita, de Nabokov.
A lojista não tinha qualquer ideia do que seria (apenas que o nome lhe soava a russo) e pediu a outro amigo que o lesse e a aconselhasse sobre se deveria vendê-lo na loja.
Mas ela não o leu!Penso que o objectivo deste livro é relatar as dificuldades com que uma mulher sozinha se depara quando pretende ser inovadora.
Just read one too many repressed-English-lady-in-a-closed-society stories in a row I think.
Instead of the connection and recognition I typically feel, I came out the other side of predicting the words you were going to say with the face of the enemies that you spend much of the book fighting.
Which means I need a break from you lovely ladies- as overidentified with you as I am- even I can need, like Charlotte, a little more air to breathe and I can't appreciate going on one more 200-300 page journey to get a tiny piece of it like I typically do.
I'll be back when I haven't just read about ten-fifteen of your sisters all in a row.
Sí, todo está metido en un ritmo muy lento, el libro es muy pausado pero al mismo tiempo están pasando mogollón de cosas (o al menos, así lo percibí yo): la apertura de la librería, las sonrisas falsas, la hipocresía, la presión social, los abogados incompetentes, el sobrino de la señora Gamart, Milo, la increíble Christine (y su hermosa relación con Florence), la inesperada amistad del señor Brundish, la expropiación de Old House… Y todo eso ocurre en menos de 200 páginas.
Incluso la muerte pulula entre esas páginas.¿Por qué la gente disfrutaba de la película pero no del libro?
Curt, poignant, understated, witty, charming, ruthless.Every time I picked it up I felt myself slowly sink into its chilly English waters and upon rolling my eyes over its crisp sentences I’d abandon myself to the tug of its current and let it drag me serenely away.
The very small town of Hardborough earns its name ten times over.
This is one of the most moving books I’ve read in a long time and I loved every second spent in its company.Ditch Amazon for this one and go buy it from a small town bookshop - believe me, you'll feel better for it.
My expectations were a bit Pym-ish. The Bookshop promised all sorts of apt visions, austerity, widows, spinsters, modernity, the Church. Well there were traces of such harbored within, but the bend bent elsewhere. I was actually reminded of Murdoch's Sandcastles, the provincials backbiting like crabs, human spirit crushed by petty jealousy. It was perfect day for this here: cats and dogs all day.
It left me thinking, how do you explain an alternate to morality to someone who has no understanding of any other method as a guide to human conduct.I found my answer in The Bookshop.
The 'absurdity' is in the slight unconventionality of the middle-aged Florence Green.
Her courage, was after all, only a determination to survive.The style reminded me of Kafka's first written and unfinished novel Amerika.
In many ways, this allows the reader to form his/her own judgements of the book.
Kafka's oddities has caused a "hate him" or "he's god" attitude among confused readers.
There seem to be a lot of reviews complaining that The Bookshop is depressing. I don't understand that viewpoint at all. This book was hilarious. It's all about the humor of having diminished expectations and still being unable to live up to them. Perhaps I shouldn't think too hard about why that appeals to me. Four stars.
The word that came to mind to describe The Bookshop is ‘damp.’ My spirits were certainly dampened after reading this short novel about the damp Old House that fought for a chance to be a bookshop which was located in Hardborough, a small English town sandwiched between sea and river, and shrouded perpetually in a damp fog.The year is 1959.
Mrs Florence Green, a middle-aged widow left a small inheritance by her husband, opens the only bookshop in Hardsborough.
What an ugly little book this is.
I’m afraid I didn’t much care for this bleak and uncompromisingly downbeat novel.
*spoilers*Mrs Green opens her book shop in a long abandoned old building and learns that a wealthy and influential (filthy rich and powerful) local harridan wants the old building for an “arts centre.” When our protagonist resists entreaties to find a different property or give up the venture altogether the villain sets into motion a scheme to displace her for good and all.
I hated the filthy rich woman, but I never developed much affection for Mrs Green either.
With a great deal of innocence and no savvy, she overcomes a number of obstacles - a bank loan, buying a run-down house, having no previous ties to the community - and opens her store.
The local Establishment (an aristocratic family) and nearby slacker businesses feel threatened by her store.
This novel is a soft-spoken indictment against the insularity of small village life.
Ordinary people in the community are emotionally smothered with genteel soft pillows while the other villagers indifferently watch.
This story makes vividly clear what people need is not as easily accepted as what people want.
Revisited for the 2019 Mookse Madness Tournament, I only came across Penelope Fitzgerald in 2017 at the age of 48.This is very late, but that seems appropriate for an author who herself launched her literary career at 58 and wrote her first novel at 60 had her second (this novel) shortlisted for the Booker the next year, and won the Booker the following year.Florence Green, a middle-aged widower decides to buy a derelict property in a small Suffolk coastal town Hardborough and sets up a bookshop.
In 1959 Florence Green, a kindhearted widow with a small inheritance, risks everything to open a bookshop - the only bookshop - in the seaside town of Hardborough. By making a success of a business so impractical, she invites the hostility of the town's less prosperous shopkeepers. By daring to enlarge her neighbors' lives, she crosses Mrs. Gamart, the local arts doyenne. Florence's warehouse leaks, her cellar seeps, and the shop is apparently haunted. Only too late does she begin to suspect the truth: a town that lacks a bookshop isn't always a town that wants one.Source:  https://www.buffalolib.org/vufind/Rec...
I was a bit disappointed in this one. I expected to really love it. It's about books and a bookstore and it takes place in England which are three of my favorite things but somehow it just didn't work for me. There isn't anything wrong with it. It's well enough written I just couldn't connect at all. I couldn't get invested in the characters or the outcome. Perhaps the fault lies with me and not the book. I will give this author another chance soon.


