https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9811.Difficult_Loves
People will forget what you said People will forget what you did But people will never forget how you made them feel. You, Mr. Calvino! I’ll never forget how this book made me feel. An immensely gifted writer, Calvino displayed his genius in this collection by plucking the ignored or trivial fragments of moments we experience at one point or another in our lives and weaved them together to present these gems of short stories. How vividly he captured the minute happenings around us and served
An immensely gifted writer, Calvino displayed his genius in this collection by plucking the ignored or trivial fragments of moments we experience at one point or another in our lives and weaved them together to present these gems of short stories.
With each story, Calvino gracefully unearths the most complicated emotions buried deep inside various characters and talks about loves that are difficult to embrace in the world driven by conventions and morals.
Calvino has beautifully captured the love story between two characters which again is not according to the conventional standards of love.
Enchanted Gardens, playing with toads, that sort of thing.'Wartime Stories' sees Calvino focus on WW2.
One story tells of the worst shot in the village hunting down a German soldier in the forests, which felt like a mini neo-folktale, leading to Calvino to compile the Italian Folktales.
Arguably, some of the best were saved until last, 'Stories of Love and Loneliness' written in the fifties, sees Calvino slowly began to break from realism for the richer depths of philosophy, myth and fantasy.
We see a man on train who meets a woman, yes just like in the movies, and another tells of the embarrassing moment when a female bather somehow manages to lose her swimsuit in the sea.
And at least for Calvino, an Agronomist, that is where the seeds of his literary abilities germinated.Unlike the The Decameron, Difficult loves does not have a framing story.
They all are ‘The Adventure of….X’.I have expanded on this, possibly dry, account of the editorial history of Difficult Loves because I think it illustrates the difficulties of reading a collection of short stories and of gaining an opinion of the writing of any one author based on a reading experience of a few--and probably closely consecutive—sittings.
Childhood seemed to go on regardless of what was happening around it.The consequences of war really only became apparent when the boys were old enough to play a role, even one as responsible as shooting the real enemy with guns that once would have been used to kill that evening's meal.My Real Life FabulisedThe first part of this collection (the "Riviera Stories") was written shortly after WWII, but documents a period in the lives of teenaged boys when they are just starting to encounter girls and women outside their own families.
He looks down, always looks down, as the carousel turns, and Raskolnikov counts the steps that separate him from the old woman’s door; turns again, and Lucien de Rubempré gazes at the towers and roofs of the Conciergerie before sticking his head into the noose; turns again, and a cannonball falls at the feet of Prince Andrei; turns again, to a shop filled with engravings and statues where Frédéric Moreau, his heart in his mouth, was to meet the Arnoux family.Amedeo peeks again.
I would like to think I would have put the book down when the other bathers left, unlike Amedeo, who made love to the woman in the cove while holding a finger in his ever-turning book, so he wouldn’t lose his place.

Από όλα τα ανούσια βιβλία που έχω διαβάσει τελευταία, σίγουρα αυτό είναι ένα από τα κορυφαία σε ανουσιότητα.
Κι επειδή ο χρόνος είναι λίγος και ο Καλβίνο δεν έκανε τα μαγικά του μέχρι τα μισά (δεν ξέρω καν αν θα μπορούσε να έχει κάνει κάποιο μαγικό, δεν έχω διαβάσει άλλο δικό του βιβλίο), το σταματώ εδώ, λίγο πριν τη μέση και δηλώνω ότι δεν κάνει για εμένα.
Και αυτό είναι πολύ κακό!
Μου ήταν τόσο αδιάφορο που ακόμα και ο χρόνος που αφιερώνω για να γράψω αυτή την κριτική μου φαίνεται χαμένος.
Sta forse descrivendo gli anobiani quando baciano?Unica nota a margine: Calvino a tratti mi sembra un po’ misogino, questi amori sono quasi tutti vissuti da parte maschile e più volte si riferisce alle donne, protagoniste dei suoi racconti, come a coloro che parlano e interloquiscono a sproposito.
There was a time when I thought my purpose in life was to encourage as many people as possible to read Calvino.
To which the only answer is that it is a work of fiction and it is written by a man.If this was all the book was about it would not be worth reading, but these short stories are a real delight.
My favourite is the story of the short sighted man - a man goes back to the village he left as a young man.
These are light stories, but by Calvino so a delight all the same.
να χανόμαστε στους ψεύτικους κόσμους ενός κινητού.Το Αργεντινό Μυρμήγκι δεν είναι παρά η κοινή συνιστώσα στη ζωή όλων μας με την οποία ζούμε και κανένας δεν μπορεί να την αποφύγει και έτσι ανάλογα του ποιοι είμαστε και πόσο καλά βλέπουμε κοντά και πόσο καθαρά μακριά επιλέγουμε να παλέψουμε, να παραδοθούμε, να συνασπιστουμε στη μεμψιμοιρία η στην κοινή πορεία, να κρύψουμε το πρόβλημα ή να ψάξουμε για ένα άλλο θέμα εκείνη την ανάμνηση που θα λέει πως υπάρχει κάπου και λίγη ξαστεριά, ένα κομμάτι γης ζωντανό.Το Νέφος έχει δύο σκέλη.


We begin with childhood and innocence, youngsters basking in a golden glow of prewar idyllic rural / seaside existence ( Riviera Stories ) ; we are expelled from the Garden of Eden by the cruelties and savagery of the second world war ( Wartime Stories ) ; we suffer from hunger, cold, poverty with the rest of the Italian people in the aftermath of the conflict ( Postwar Stories ); finally we emerge back into the sunlight, and have time for leisure and love, but by now middle age comes with disillusionment and alienation ( Stories of Love and Loneliness)I didn't check the publication dates, but the historical and personal developments that link and give continuity the individual episodes turn the collection into a sort of picarescque novel following a hero on a quest through life, changing maybe his name or his appearance, but remaining true to his inner nature, a personification of a whole nation through the masks worn by the different actors in the Commedia del Arte performed by Calvino for our entertainment.
Calvino’s prose is among the best I’ve read.
The best thing about this collection of stories is how rewarding they are on repeated reads; initially dense prose gives way to light, colour and details of pretty awe-inspiring clarity.
Although full of highlights, The adventure of the poet is a masterclass, where he expertly draws a contrast between the gritty, palpable details of ugliness, with the dreamlike, transitory and elusive expressions of beauty.
He makes us see why embracing the ugly side of nature is sometimes unavoidable, but also reminds us that human tenderness – although never permanent - is very much alive.
capello bianco che, come si dice (ma solo per gli uomini!), li rende più interessanti;-)Simpaticissima l'"Avventura del lettore" che cerca di conciliare il piacere della lettura con quello del nuoto (mi ci sono perfettamente ritrovata!) e di cui, in omaggio ad ogni lettore, riporto questo brano:Oltre la superficie della pagina s'entrava in un mondo in cui la vita era più vita che di qua, da questa parte: come la superficie del mare che ci divide da quel mondo azzurro e verde, crepacci a perdita d'occhio, distese di fine sabbia ondulata, esseri mezzo animale e mezzo pianta.Per ultimi, due racconti più lunghi di "vita difficile", o modi di affrontare la vita.
Tredici racconti brevi rappresentano “gli amori difficili”, contrastati, magari giusto abbozzati, o solo sognati; due racconti più lunghi ampliano la prospettiva: riguardano “la vita difficile”, nella sua totalità. Sono quadri fatti di pennellate sapienti, dosate: una scrittura notevole in sé, con la tristezza degli argomenti stemperata sempre da belle dosi di ironia.
Quedé gratamente sorprendida con este libro. Por el título pensaba que iban a ser cuentos dramáticos o densos, pero el resultado fue distinto ya que me divertí muchísimo con la lectura. No necesariamente hay relaciones amorosas en cada historia, como dice la sinopsis, sino que se trata de las aventuras de distintos personajes ante pequeños incidentes cotidianos. Calculo que con una relectura puedo llegar a ponerle 5 estrellas.
"Aquela expressão, aquele acento, aquele segredo que lhe parecia estar ali a ponto de colher no rosto dela era algo que o estava arrastando para as areias movediças dos estados de ânimo, dos humores, da psicologia: ele também era um daqueles que vão atrás da vida que foge, um caçador do inalcançável, como os disparadores de instantâneos."
Il tono sorridente contraddistingue la gran parte delle storie: il ladro e la guardia dalla medesima prostituta del ‘bandito’, l’’impiegato’ che vede perdersi nel banale quotidiano le emozioni della sua notte d’amore, la ‘bagnante’ che perde il costume e resta a mollo non sapendo come cavarsela, il ‘viaggiatore’ nella sua personale rielaborazione de ‘Il sabato del villaggio’ si gusta di più gli insignificanti riti del viaggio verso l’amata che l’incontro con la stessa), lo ‘sciatore’ imbranato e il ‘fotografo’ che si fa travolgere da una mania all’inizio rifiutata.
La mia videorecensione: https://youtu.be/0yjn16noikA
This is a collection of short stories by Calvino, originally published in Italian as “Gli Amori Difficili.” Calvino (1923-1984) was born in Cuba, but spent the majority of his life in Italy, where he died in Siena.
In “One of the Three is Still Alive,” three enemy soldiers are captured by the resistance forces and are slated to be put to death.
The partisans realize that he is still alive, and begin to drop grenades down the cave.
We then follow him as he explores the cave and makes his way to safety.
Nothing really happens, but it's beautiful and significant anyway.Calvino, you are rich with the goods.From 'Adventures of a Reader':"For some time Amedeo had tended to reduce his participation in active life to the minimum.
Not that he didn't like action: on the contrary, love of action nourished his whole character, all his tastes; and yet, from one year to the next, the yearning to be someone who did things declined, declined, until he wondered if he had ever really harbored that yearning.
Amedeo loved thick tomes, and in tackling them he felt the physical pleasure of undertaking a great task.
Even if I am not a big fan of short stories, Calvino is always able to captivate us with his style of writing.4* Se una notte d'inverno un viaggiatore4* Il cavaliere inesistente4* Il visconte dimezzato3* The Road to San Giovanni4* Why Read the Classics?3* The Castle of Crossed Destinies4* Os amores dificeisTR The Baron in the TreesTR Our AncestorsTR Invisible CitiesTR The Path to the nest of spidersTR Zeno's conscienceTR As a man grows older
La rassegnazione, l'impotenza di fronte a un destino crudele nei confronti di una piccola famiglia prima in La formica argentina e nei confronti della società coeva poi in La nuvola di smog non lasciano intravedere molte speranze di riscatto da parte dell'autore, ma neanche un senso assoluto di desolazione, insomma quel male di vivere (come lo definiscono i critici) che fa comunque sentire alla fine a proprio agio, e fa cercare un senso di adeguatezza anche laddove sembra impossibile (la famiglia sulla spiaggia, libera dalle formiche ed il giornalista stanco per i verdi prati infiniti).Il mio voto finale è un 3.8; alla fine, in realtà, è davvero una bella raccolta di racconti.
"Usnelli stava sempre zitto, ma questa angoscia del mondo umano era il contrario di quella che gli comunicava poco prima la bellezza della natura:come là ogni parola veniva meno, così qua era una ressa di parole che gli si affollavano alla mente: parole da descrivere ogni verruca, ogni pelo della magra faccia malrasa del pescatore vecchio, ogni scaglia argentata del muggine."La maggiore difficoltà l'ho incontrata ad inizio lettura, dal momento che i primi racconti sono inconsistenti e sin troppo vaghi.
Poi, a circa metà raccolta, si riprende quasi di scatto.
Particolarmente belle, per me, le avventure del lettore e del miope.
Uno dei tanti capolavori di narrativa di Calvino, che sa sempre intrattenere e far riflettere. Qui si concentra sulle relazioni complicate, sugli ostacoli quotidiani, sul contrasto fra situazioni ideali e desiderate e compromessi amari. I racconti de Gli amori difficili possono essere centellinati o gustati in un sol boccone, ma resteranno una gran prelibatezza letteraria.http://athenaenoctua2013.blogspot.it/...
Collection of several short stories. Viewing the stories separately, they were mostly sad or melancholical at least, but overall the book managed to make me feel happy (I still have to figure out how that happened). Italo Calvino is slowly becoming my favourite author.
Coleção de contos impressionante, o autor mostra uma enorme maestria ao descrever cenas evocativas e construir personagens complexos. É a primeira vez que leio Italo Calvino e este título não decepcionou em nenhum instante. Os dois contos finais - considerados por muitos como novelas por conta do tamanho-, são os menos interessantes (só por isso não leva 5 estrelas). Recomendo!
4,5
O conto do fotógrafo vale o livro inteiro, ele consegue ser mais atual que hoje.
