https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76915.Service_of_All_the_Dead
This is a nice touch, since the novel itself centres around the church of St. Frideswide's - (view spoiler)[ the death of its churchwarden and falling from the tower of its vicar.
(hide spoiler)] The first book sets up the plot, introducing all the characters involved, and relates their feelings towards each other, thereby hinting at possible motives for the murder.
This becomes a recurring theme throughout the series, as an irritating habit for Lewis to observe.Morse, who is now 47 years old, is depicted more as the familiar character we know from TV dramatisations.
But then he stumbles onto a pair of mysterious deaths at a church in another division nearby.
They've closed the books on both deaths, but something seems odd to Morse and so he begins digging into the situation, even though he's on vacation and even though the detectives who originally investigated the case are not at all happy with his interference.Morse recruits his faithful sergeant, Lewis, and manages to take over the investigation.
Morse is a great, if prickly, protagonist, and this book should appeal to those who like an intelligent, complex mystery novel.
rosado mp3Read by...................
8 hours 10 minsDescription: This time Inspector Morse brings the imposition on himself.
But he finds the crime--the brutal killing of a suburban churchwarden--fascinating.
In fact, he uncovers not one murder but two, for the fatal fall of St. Frideswides vicar from the church tower Morse reckons to be murder as well.
And as he digs into the lives and unsanctified lusts of the late vicar's erring flock, the list of the dead grows longer.
Not even the oddly appealing woman he finds scrubbing the church floor can compensate Morse for the trouble he's let himself in for.
I'm a huge British mystery fan, I can't help it, it's a joy I cant escape in any format book, TV, or movie.
Inspector Morse is my all time favorite TV show, and for some reason I had not read through the novels before.
This book is superb.
I thought I knew what was happening from the first season episode of the same name from 1987, but Mr. Dexter weaves a much more complicated tale, and had me doubting whether the book and the episode would match up in the end.
If you like mysteries of any sort, READ THIS.
One of the better books in this series so far. The plot revolved around a congregation of a high Anglican church and perhaps was a bit extreme but it was enjoyable reading how Morse was able to solve the various crimes.
An excellent twisty tale of murders in a church, and the irascible, sharp-witted, blue-eyed, ale-loving Inspector Morse moves in to investigate along with DS Lewis. The writing, plot structure and characterisations are better written compared to the previous ones in the series. So, if you haven't read Inspector Morse mysteries before, this would be the perfect place to start off. My Rating - 5/5
Questo Sellerio è un apostrofo giallo sospeso tra le due sponde di un orrido privato.
Piacevole e per di più produzione “letteraria” extra-professionale di un uomo colto che, per invidia, nei miei remoti sedici anni avrei tacciato per erudito.
Come in realtà feci scrivendo alla lavagna - nell’intervallo tra una lezione e l’altra, per il prof.
Shaw: “ La differenza tra un uomo colto e un erudito è la stessa che passa tra il libro e l’indice”.
Unico appunto: il solito fugace amorazzo più o meno condito di sesso che tutti, e dico tutti, gli scettici investigatori del giallo postmoderno (?) praticano.
I realize that there are many acquiescent and "easy" women, but by the time of writing the sexual revolution had long since arrived and feminism was making headway, even in conservative Oxford.
And recall that, although some streams of feminist thought encouraged sexual freedom, this was not identical to what Dexter's characters would consider "wanton" behavior.
Never mind that those characters would probably have not been able to tell the difference...) Authors will, of course, reflect the time in which they write.
Great authors, while reflecting their time are also able to, at least in one way or another, transcend it.
Complicatissima risoluzione di un plot costruito magistralmente come al solito da Dexter.
Con lo svagato ispettore Morse che da un'epifania all'altro mette insieme le tessere di un puzzle più intricato del solito.
E' riposante leggere un giallo senza Dna, scena del crimine, guanti di plastica, autopsie e con la totale assenza di momenti terrorizzanti.
Perfino il doppio finale è guidato con mano bonaria e sorniona.
Morse non patisce le depressioni di Wallander, o le crisi di superego di Poirot, non è così disincantato come Maigret, o disamorato come Carvalho.
E, stranamente per un giallo inglese, nessuno - dico nessuno!
In attesa che la Sellerio le ripubblichi tutte, Luca ha comperato da una signora siciliana un'indagine del mitico Morse (in realtà due, l'altra è in coda di lettura) con lo sfondo di una Oxford campagnola - una in cui si legge, per dire, della donna che va a fare le pulizie in chiesa in bicicletta e delle case con la porta laccata di blu e il vialetto costeggiato da erbacce.
Come il detto dei marinai che hanno una sposa in ogni porto, anche Morse finisce col chiudere abbarbicato ad una donna, promettendo chissà quali sviluppi.
E' scontato che al prossimo omicidio sarà ancora spiantato e accompagnato perlopiù da Lewis, incredibilmente paziente e cuscino di gomma per tutti gli sbalzi d'umore del suo ispettore.
As usual I don't think Dexter gives the reader enough information to be able to solve the case themselves.Quite a complicated case with the question of whether the body identified as Rev. Lawson was actually him.The bodies seemed to mount up really quickly, it was like Midsomer Murders!Liked the story, even though I couldn't really solve it myself. Got through it quite quickly.Think I might have seen the TV adaptation of this one; looking forward to watching them all at some point.
The fourth Morse book.I did not enjoy this as much as some of the others as I found the plot so convoluted that I had to keep stopping to remind myself who was doing what, where and why!!!!Even when I finished I could not have repeated the actual plot to someone else!However, Morse is his usual irascible self and much of the plot is interesting if fiendishly difficult to follow (maybe its just me!!)
Un labirinto di parole e situazioni, ad ogni angolo svoltato si crede di aver in pugno la soluzione per vederla invece sfumare in un'ulteriore ipotesi o traccia.Intricato fino alla fine, come solo un complesso labirinto sa essere, non delude e il percorso da compiere per arrivare alla risoluzione finale è leggero e piacevole.
The fifth book in the series is a complex story of dead bodies found in a Catholic church. I found the plot a little confusing and when the killer was revealed along with the scenario it just me cold. It seemed very unlikely to me. I did enjoy Morse and Lewis' interactions and watching Morse mature.
Interesting in that it shows Morse stumbling from one wrong conclusion to another. But I'm still not sure in all the plot twists exactly what happened at the end and perhaps Dexter wrote it that way - or is it just me? (Please see my last two reviews of a Morse book!)
I wanted to return to this series after hearing of the death of Colin Dexter, and I wasn't disappointed.
This is a great read, a real pageturner, so many twists and turns along the way.
After reading a few books recently which were a bit of a drag, it was a treat to read something I wanted to keep coming back to.
I did find the ending a bit convoluted and felt it let down the story a bit, but it didn't really detract from my enjoyment of this book.
Thumbs up to this book - will definitely be reading some more.
Morse is a delightful character. The way he goes about parsing the clues, make deductions, and arrives at conclusions makes for interesting reading. His interactions with Lewis are absolutely fun; they make a formidable duo. And....rare to come across a literary character who loves his beer more than Chief Inspector Morse.
I've loved all the Morse mysteries I've read, because they're so well written.
I discovered recently that most of the ones I've read were later in the series, so I searched for an earlier Morse mystery and found this one.As always, Colin Dexter is so clever with the details.
He even found a way to footnote a comment that Morse makes about suicide, having a teen who winds up with a book (once owned by the murderer) which had the supporting citation for Morse's comment!
And just when I thought, "This mystery is winding up early," a series of quick turns of events kept me guessing!
Beautifully constructed, you can see that he was a cryptic crossword setter, you have all the information, but only see the answer at the end.
And as he digs deeply into the private lives and the myriad unsanctified lusts of the late vicar's erring flock, the list of the dead only grows longer.Not even the oddly appealing woman he finds scrubbing the floor of the church can properly compensate Inspector Morse for the imposition he has brought upon himself.
Although, I would say that my feelings are due in large part to Colin Dexter's writing style; Inspector Morse is probably meant to come across as supercilious and slightly overbearing.I found the mystery itself to be rather convoluted as well, but still very intriguing for me to read.
Lewis, his faithful accomplice, doesn’t get as much of a look in until halfway through, but when he does come in, his part is triumphant and he’s the perfect sidekick.What’s interesting to note is that the story line follows the church, and whilst I’ll admit that I’m a life-long atheist, I still found it interesting to take a look behind the scenes at the clergy, and it’s clear that Dexter did his research.It’s a decent enough mystery, but it doesn’t stand above the other Morse books for me.
There are also a couple of references to his lack of a first name – throughout the series, it’s never revealed, which is an interesting little quirk.And the good thing about Colin Dexter’s books is the way that you can read them out of order without losing anything.
By the end of the book we have 6 bodies.While on his holidays Morse ventures into a local church and becomes interested in the tale of the murder of the churchwarden and the suicide of the vicar (while becoming smitten with the cleaner).
Or is someone removing the witnesses to his earlier crime.As I said before this story becomes rather complicated fast, as the vicars brother was also in Oxford at the time of the original murder.
But vicar didn't seem to hold his brother in very high regard.It takes Morse a bit of time, but he finally figures it all out (apart from the suicide), right down to who was blackmailing who.
t was one of the better whodunits I’ve read for a while.
The style is quite different from the queens of mystery.
It’s much more adult, in the sense it’s used in movies.
Adultery and sexual attraction play a role in the plot.
But besides this, it’s a fine mystery in the format of the queens and before.
But it’s crafted quite masterfully, and the plot is quite solid.
(Of course, one could poke holes in any story of this format - but this is not an explanation of the universe).
The first Dexter that I read also impressed me at that time.
This is poorly written, the plot is uninteresting.
The entire work reeks of "he he I can make money out of whodunnits too everyone els ewhy cant I?" I read the book only a few weeks ago and have largely forgotten the implausible plot and even more implausbile deaths.
What did strike me is that the author had no feeling for the setting and for the victims he descibes except as a way of making money out of a popular genre.
This dreary and badly written book left a bitter taste in my mouth.
Long ago now I enjoyed the regular weekly public television presentations of author Colin Dexter's Inspector Morse mysteries, but I have never read any of the books until this one. It was a very good read! I can still hear actor John Thaw speaking the lines of Inspector Morse in the book, as well as the more humble, quieter Kevin Whately as his sidekick. The solution to the mystery was very complex and certainly not guessed. nor remembered. I thoroughly enjoyed reading this.
Another worthy addition to the Morse canon. I really like Dexter's writing. The Morse in the novels is a different character than that of the TV series , but I am getting used to that fact and enjoy the stories as he wrote them.
As usual a very intriguing read and interesting to compare the great TV series with the original novels.Very well done - the first murder victim turns out to be the actual murderer of all five victims in the story.What a turn around !
My favorite Morse yet! Morse is on holiday, so of course he uses the time to look in to a year-old mystery. The twists keep coming, and if the ending is a little implausible, the journey was enjoyable enough that I just didn't care.
Morse investigates the murder of a churchwarden and then more bodies are discovered. Although well written this was dated and the finale was so complicated that I still think I missed something! 3 stars
This one I found very similar to the tv episode, so it was less engaging than some of the other stories. But still great characterization and writing. A good Morse.
