https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/42172.The_Christmas_Shoes
It all makes me wonder in what mysterious and unknown ways I might have affected the life of someone with whom I've come in contact, over the forty years of my own life.I believe that The Christmas Shoes is the first book I've read that alternates between first and third person perspective.
LOVED this book! So heartwarming and such great messages! Most people have heard the song, but the book is even better! Completely recommend!
I don’t know how familiar you guys are with the song “The Christmas Shoes”, I know I’ve heard it and the general message is one that I know pretty well but it’s not a favourite or anything.
For me this book is pretty religious, which I actually don’t mind seeing as how it is set at Christmas, and it does a lovely job of tightroping that line and never becoming actually preachy.
It was sweet and a bit sad but overall it just sort of felt like regurgita of the same message that is in pretty much every holiday book; people are more precious than gifts.
3.5 stars.
Yes, this is a teary eyed read, but I am not ashamed to say that I really enjoyed it.
It reminded me a lot of the theme expressed in Jimmy Stewart's movie, It's a Wonderful Life.
It will remind you of what's really important in your life.
I know, while I was reading it today, I blew up my husband's phone with random text messages telling him how much I loved him.
I like books that inspire me to love my family more and to appreciate them and this book did exactly that.
I look forward to reading the rest of this Christmas series.
That's where the positives end.
The book is filled with enough sugary schmaltz and false sentimentality to send cookie monster into a diabetic coma.
Protagonist is a jerk, everyone else is a good person, sick people die, lessons learned, the end.
The book is basically A Christmas Carol without any of the badass ghosts.
I've read Hallmark greeting cards with more interesting plot twists than this book.
I've got to end this review for now; I have a copy of My Humps: the Novel that needs to be read.
This novel follows two different characters during a difficult Christmas season: A boy, Nathan, learns that his mother is dying of cancer, while a hard-working lawyer, Robert, realizes that he has become distanced from his wife and children.
When a chance encounter brings the boy and the lawyer to the same department store check-out line, Robert learns something beautiful about the true meaning of Christmas.I was not expecting this book to be the Great American Novel.
So I want to know why in the heck she and her husband wait until the day she dies to tell their eight-year-old son that the mother won't get better.
I had to take breaks from this book just so I could cry.
It's one of those short, heartwarming stories where a hardened workaholic learns the true meaning of Christmas, someone dies (actually multiple people die), and you really wish it was snowing outside.
In short, it was lovely, and I cried all the way through it.The perspective change throughout was a little confusing.
I swear I re-read the fake forward about three times (being confused about "Donna Van Liere" writing about her wife.But it was still a great book, and I loved how Robert's mom yelled at him.
I also loved her neighbors, and Doris.It's great for a good cry and a reminder of what Christmas is all about.
I definitely cried more than once while reading this short and sweet little story.
As soon as I finished this story, I decided that I wanted to read the next book in this series, The Christmas Blessing.
This second book in the series is about Nathan.
My sister first read this book and when I saw the cover and read the synopsis, I knew I had to read it.
Of course, this book deserves 5 stars.
That is how we get into the Christmas spirit.Title: The Christmas ShoesAuthor: Donna VanLiereAuthor’s Website: http://www.donnavanliere.com/Reading Resolution: #26This review is written in my own opinions and words.
Sadness and pain mixed with warmth and gratitude. Right book at the right time - Christmas time! Christmas is not only decorations and gifts underneath the tree, Christmas is love, family and faith. Books like this one are here to remind us that, over and over again. Don't celebrate holidays for material causes, stay still for a moment and be grateful - for life and for persons beside you.All of us have something to believe in, so have faith and BELIEVE!
This book was a huge tear jerker. I think I cried through almost the entire book. Thank goodness it was only 140 pages. ;) But the story was great and it was a real heart felt book. Made you think about what's really important in life and the true meaning of Christmas.
4 StarsI did enjoy this story a lot. It was inspirational and lovely and showed how just a little kindness can truly change someone's life.
The cover is lovely, but the story was just amazing!I don't know anything about The Christmas Shoes song, so that wasn't the reason I bought this and read it!
But I LOVE how the story is focused around the lyrics of that song (the lyrics are on a page at the end of the book).It's a very powerful, spiritual book which made me love it more!
:D) (view spoiler)[It's amazing how at the end, Robert and the little boy (which is Nathan, but he's grown up now) meet each other in the cemetery, but they obviously don't know who each other are!
(hide spoiler)] I just love how the "Christmas Shoes" came is as well ...
I hate cancer!
I hate it!
I hate it!
I was upset when reading The Fault in Our Stars, but I cried reading this book.
We, as humans, become so focused and stressed during the holidays that greediness tends to get the best of us.
This book not only places the reader in another individual's tragic situation, but also makes the reader realize that just being able to breathe around the holidays surrounded by family and loved ones should be enough for us, without being overly greedy.
Some may say the story is a coincidence, but personally, I believe the individual in this book served as an angel for this eight-year-old child.
3.5/5A light and easy read. One of those heart-warming books about how a single event can alter the course of someone’s life. I found that it jumped back and forth between narrators in a way that was not always easy to follow.
I would give this book a 2.5.Touching book with a nice message but not my cup of tea. Story lacks character development, maybe because it's based on a song of the same name. People reviewed it as a tear-jerker. I didn't tear but some parts were heart-warming.
Precious and a beautiful refreshing Christmas read. There's tears and sadness, but oh so much hope in it too!
A short, simple and touching book. I chose to read this book because of the numerous reviews here that said it’s a tear-jerking book. I’ve never had a book that brought tears to my eyes and was both intrigued & skeptical that this book would be the first one to do it. So I went for it with a “Bring it on! Make me tear” attitude. Let’s just say you don’t want to be reading this book with mascara on cause you’re probably going to start looking like a raccoon by the end of it. Loved the book!
It's been awhile since I have read a tear jerker this book is simply heart wrenching yet absolutely wonderful. Love the message of it just beautiful and highly recommend It to anyone who wants a good book with a good message that is an easy to read wonderful Christmas book! And PS make sure A. You aren't sitting in the dentist office while reading as they might think you are crying from tooth pain and B. Have a box of tissues handy
This book was beautiful! I read it so quickly, and I couldn't stop thinking about it. I want to read the sequel but it may have to wait till next year. I am going to watch the movie.. I might cry like I cried whilst reading the book.Please read the book, it's a beautiful story with a beautiful message.
1.5* I’m sure you’ve heard the Christmas song about the little boy who wants to buy a special pair of shoes for his Mama on Christmas.
She’s dying and he wants her to feel special when she meets Jesus.
Well, VanLiere expands that song into this novella.
I also really liked Nathan’s teacher and the ways she tried to help this small boy deal with the sadness and stress of his mother’s illness.
I knew the story was headed there (I have heard the song numerous times), but didn’t feel that VanLiere made it believable.
A wonderful Christian read featuring two families having difficult times during the Christmas season. You will need a box of tissues for this one.
Read this for a readalong with Elizabeth from LizzieFayelovesbooks. This was a heartbreaking story that left me in tears. I’ve heard the song before but never knew the story behind it. Highly recommend everyone read this.
The Christmas Shoes is my first book by Donna VanLiere. It is a book with all the feels! The story is heartwarming and tear-jerking all at once and it is beautifully written in a way that makes me strongly relate to the storylines. I felt VanLiere really took the time to personalize each of the main characters and I could really feel for them. The story is remarkably touching and I found myself getting misty-eyed towards the end. What a great storyteller!
pleaseIt's Christmas eve and these shoes are just her sizeCould you hurry sirDaddy says there's not much timeYou see,She's been sick for quite a while And Iknow these shoes will make her smile And IWant her to look beautifulIf mama meets Jesus tonightI knew I'd caught a glimpse of heaven's love as he thanked me and ran outI knew that God had sent me that little boy to remind me what Christmas is all aboutSir I wanna buy these shoesFor my mama.
So I'm hosting book club in December this year, and so I am reading some Christmas books to find a good one to pick.
I asked the librarian for some suggestions of unusual Christmas books.
Because I really didn't want to read any of those trite, dripping with obvious message type books.
I am not totally mad at her because she did make some other really good suggestions of unusual Christmas books.
If you have any good suggestions of unique or unusual Christmas books - let me know!
The cover art and small-size of the book drew me into picking up the book and I'm glad I finally figured out what the fuss was all about with the "Christmas" books.I loved this story.
It was a very quick read and just what I wanted in a Christmas book - full of love, family and redemption.
Even though it was expected based on reading the summary on the back of the book, it was still very powerful and moving.I think anyone looking for a good "Christmas" book should definitely start with VanLiere's books.
Ones that let me escape reality and enjoy all the best parts of the holiday season.
I liked it for the sappy, "drop me into the well of reality" book that it is.
The lesson is more poignant because there are Christmas trees and gifts involved.Teach me a lesson at Christmastime if you want.
Teach me about hope, or joy, or sharing, or love or any of the other true gifts of Christmas.
If I'm going to take time out of the busy holiday season to read, I'd prefer not to have to cry about it.So maybe I'll re-read "The Christmas Shoes" in late winter.
I've heard the song many times.
Watched the movie quite a few times too.
It's tradition for me to read a Christmas book by Donna VanLiere every Christmas and this year I chose The Christmas Shoes.
It's a lot like the movie and song but in some ways it's not like either .
I will say that I liked the book better than the movie.
This tiny book packs a powerful message.
All of this is packed into 132 pages of this classic Christmas book.
The book left me with a warm feeling that just maybe I might be a better person because I read it.
